{"id": "24153192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24153192", "title": "Ancient glass trade", "text": "Ancient glass trade\n\nThe ways in which glass was exchanged throughout ancient times is intimately related to its production and is a stepping stone to learning about the economies and interactions of ancient societies. Because of its nature it can be shaped into a variety of forms and as such is found in different archaeological contexts (window panes, jewellery, tableware...). This is important because it can inform on how different industries of sections of societies related to each other – both within a cultural region or with foreign societies.\n\nGlass trade is mainly studied by compositional analysis of glass objects creating groups with specific chemical compositions that hopefully allow to differentiate between production centres (both geographically and chronologically). Complications arise from the fact that for long periods of time glass was made following very similar recipes and as such the major elements found do not vary significantly. It is made by a mixture of raw materials which means that different sources of each raw material even for the same production centre further complicate the situation. That it is a material that lends itself well to recycling can only add to this. However, as scientific techniques improve it is becoming increasingly possible to discern some compositional groups, together with other archaeological and textual evidence a picture of glass technology, industry and exchange is starting to emerge.\n\nGlass beads are known from the 3rd millennium BC but it is only in the late 2nd millennium that glass finds start occurring more frequently, primarily in Egypt and Mesopotamia. This is not to say that it was a widespread commodity, quite the contrary. It was a material for high-status objects with archaeological evidence for the Late Bronze Age (LBA) also showing an almost exclusive distribution of glass finds at palace complexes such as that found in the city of Amarna – Egypt. Texts listing offerings to Egyptian temples would start with gold and silver, followed by precious stones (lapis lazuli) and then bronze, copper and other not so precious stones with glass mentioned together with the lapis lazuli. \"In this period it was rare and precious and its use largely restricted to the elite.\" The oldest glass ingot was discovered in the 1300 B.C. Egyptian Uluburun shipwreck off the coast of Turkey \n\nProduction of raw glass occurred at primary workshops of which only 3 are known, all in Egypt: Amarna, Pi-Ramesses and Malkata. At the first two sites cylindrical ceramic vessels with vitrified remains have been identified as glass crucibles where the raw materials (quartz pebbles and plant ash) would be melted together with a colourant. The two sites seem to show a specialisation in colour, with blue glass, via the addition of cobalt, being produced at Amarna and red, through copper, at Pi-Ramesses. The resulting coloured glass would then be fashioned into actual objects at secondary workshops – far more common in the archaeological record. It seems certain that glass making was not exclusive to Egypt (in fact current scholarly opinion resides with the industry having originally been imported into the country) as there are Mesopotamian cuneiform texts which detail the recipes for the making of glass. Further supporting this hypothesis are the Amarna Letters, a contemporaneous diplomatic correspondence detailing the demand and gift giving from vassal princes in Syro-Palestine to the Egyptian King, in these the most asked for item is glass.\n\nThe evidence then points to two regions that were making and exchanging glass. It seems logical to believe that at an initial stage it was glass objects, as opposed to raw glass, that were exchanged. The major element composition of glass finds from Mesopotamia and Egypt is indistinguishable with as much variation found within a specific assemblage than between different sites. This is indicative of the same recipe being used in both regions. As analytical techniques develop the presence of trace elements can be more accurately determined and it has been found that glass is compositionally identical within each region, but it is possible to discriminate between them. This could be a huge step in uncovering trade patterns, however \"at present no Egyptian glass has been found in Mesopotamia, nor have any Mesopotamian glasses been found in Egypt\".\n\nAcross the sea, Mycenaean glass beads were found to have been made with glass from both regions. The fact that the beads are stylistically Mycenaean would imply an import of raw glass. Archaeological evidence for this trade comes from the Uluburun shipwreck, dated to the 14th century BC. As part of its cargo it carried 175 raw glass ingots of cylindrical shape. These ingots match the glass melting crucibles found at Amarna and Pi-Ramesses. \n\nIt is not yet possible to discern if trade in glass was occurring directly between the glass producing regions and foreign consumers, it is quite possible that indirect routes via trading and seafaring partners along the Mediterranean coast, trace element analysis of the Uluburun ingots might allow us to learn more. At this point we know glass was being consumed by the elites of Eastern Mediterranean and Western Asia, it was produced in Egypt and Mesopotamia with workshops possibly specialising in colour and distributed locally presumably through state control to state sponsored artisans, and exported further out as raw glass ingots.\n\nFrom Hellenistic times glass production sees considerable technological developments culminating with the introduction of glass blowing in the 1st century BC. Glass objects could now be made in large scale production, with less raw material and faster and as a consequence became more common. From the early Roman times, to Byzantine and early Islamic periods the glass from Northern Europe to Eastern Mediterranean shows an incredible compositional homogeneity in its major elements. Unlike the LBA glass, Roman glass was made from the melting of sand and natron – mineral soda – from the Wadi Natron in Egypt. With one raw material being common to all glass it should be possible to differentiate between glass made from different sands using composition variation of the trace elements and certain isotope ratios. These compositional analyses aimed to investigate two models for glass production:\nglass was produced in large scale primary workshops along the Levantine coast and Egypt, mixing natron and sand from the mouth of the Belus river – as mentioned by Pliny – and then traded to local glass working workshops. If natron was traded and mixed with local sands following a strict recipe could result in the homogeneous composition.\n\nGlass making furnaces have been uncovered in Israel at two sites – 17 at Bet Eli'ezer and 3 at Apollonia. These are rectangular in shape measuring about 2m x 4m and matching in size a glass slab found inside a cave at Bet She'arim. The resulting slabs would be broken up into chunks that were traded to glass workshops in the Middle East and across the Mediterranean as evidenced by the contemporaneous shipwrecks carrying such glass chunks.\n\nThe situation is not so simple; these workshops are dated from the 6th to the 11th century AD and although similar the compositions do not exactly match those of the earlier Roman period. Pliny, writing in the 1st century AD, describes glass making in the Levantine coast but also in Italy, Spain and Gaul – however \"the installations that produced the large quantities of primary glass needed to supply the Roman industry have yet to be located\". These same authors report a difference in isotopic ratios for oxygen and strontium that differentiates between Middle eastern and Roman glasses. Other authors counter idea of a unique centralised production with primary production reported from Northern Europe and inferred for Italy. \nEvidence for large scale production has only come the Eastern Mediterranean and from latter dates and assumes a continuing glass making tradition. That there was a large scale and centralised production even this early is evidenced by the Ouest Embiez I shipwreck – 3rd century – carrying 8 tons of raw glass. This however does not exclude the smaller scale local production reported elsewhere. The Julia Felix, also sunk during the 3rd century AD, was carrying as part of its cargo glass cullet presumably for recycling. Trace element analysis of colourless glass showed these were made using sands from different sources and giving some support to the de-centralised production hypothesis.\n\nBy the 9th century the raw materials for glass shift again to quartz pebbles and plant ash and the 'forest glass' of medieval Europe. Natron was no longer in use and the low lime composition of the Bet'eliezer glass would be suggestive of a decline in access to the material from at least the 6th century onwards. This could in turn be suggestive of a shift from a trade both in natron and raw glass to tighter control over natron and increase of centralised production.\n\nGlass shows up in Northern India at the end of the 2nd millennium BC becoming more common throughout South East Asia during the following millennium. Glass beads in particular become extremely popular and together with bangles form the largest group of glass finds. From its Indian origins, glass beads spread to an area from Africa to Japan, sailing with the monsoon winds and leading to their christening as 'Trade wind beads'. The most common compositional type, representing 40% of the glass finds for the region, is known as mineral soda-alumina glass and is found from the 4th century BC to the 16th century AD. As the name indicates this it is typically characterized by a high alumina content and was made by the probably melting of \"reh\" with local, alumina rich, sands. Through LA-ICP-MS analysis, however, Carter found that Cambodia had a large amount of glass beads made of potash glass and predominantly high alumina soda glass. Potash glass is a glass that uses potash or K2O as a flux in order to decrease the melting point of the glass and is the most common type of glass found in SE Asia.\n\nDetailed compositional data recently summarised by (Lankton, & Dussubieux 2006) has uncovered several distinct and yet contemporaneous glass technologies across the Indian Ocean, but the geographical assignment is not completely clear. Two small groups show compositions matching those of natron based Mediterranean glass and Plant-ash Mesopotamian glass, demonstrating trade with these other regions. Trade in raw glass from Egypt to India was described in the 1st century texts of Periplus of the Erythraean, Mesopotamian glass increases in presence with increased Sasanian control of the Indian Ocean from the 4th to 6th centuries. It is also possible that some glass was traded via the Silk Road.\n\nThe majority of glass beads found in Sub-Saharan Africa pre dating European contact are from Indian or Sri Lankan origin with a recent paper (Dussubieux et al. 2008) demonstrating contact between Kenyan sites and Chaul in the West coast of India for the 9th to the 19th century. Previously analysed samples from the East coast of Africa and Madagascar could potentially fit this group but further work is still needed. Whether Chaul was the single port for trade in glass beads or if it was part of several competing ports on that coast is still unknown. Data from a site in South Africa, near the borders with Botswana and Zimbabwe, has tentatively assigned some beads to Islamic 8th century compositions. This suggests that the old camel caravan routes that connected this region to Egypt and the Mediterranean were still in use even for glass at a site with easy access, via the Limpopo river, to the Indian Ocean trade and therefore to the West Indian glass that seem to be the most common.There is enough evidence that in ancient Sri Lanka, glass was manufactured in order to use for magnifying glasses or spectacles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27317323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27317323", "title": "Andrew Apter", "text": "Andrew Apter\n\nAndrew Herman Apter (born December 7, 1956) is an American historian, professor at University of California, Los Angeles, and Director of the African Studies Center.\n\nHe was field director of Black Atlantic Studies, for the Social Science Research Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3793126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793126", "title": "Antonio Candido", "text": "Antonio Candido\n\nAntonio Candido de Mello e Souza (July 24, 1918 – May 12, 2017) was a Brazilian writer, professor, sociologist and literary critic. As a critic of Brazilian literature, he is regarded as having been one of the foremost scholars on the subject by Brazilian universities. He was the co-winner of the Prêmio Jabuti for essays in 1965 and was awarded the Prêmio Machado de Assis in 1993, the Camões Prize in 1998 and the Alfonso Reyes International Prize in 2005.\n\nCandido was professor-emeritus at the University of São Paulo and São Paulo State University and doctor \"honoris causa\" by the University of Campinas.\n\nSon of Aristides Candido de Mello e Souza, M.D., and Clarisse Tolentino de Mello e Souza, most of Antonio Candido's childhood was spent in the Brazilian countryside, in the states of Minas Gerais and São Paulo. During this period, he did not attend school, being taught at home by his mother. In 1937 he and his family settled down in São Paulo, where he received formal education. In 1939, Candido began studying Law at the University of São Paulo School of Law, a course he would eventually abandon in order to study philosophy at the same university.\n\nHis first critical works were published in 1941, in the magazine \"Clima\", co-founded by himself, and, in the following year, he began teaching at the University of São Paulo, first in the department of sociology and later, a position he would hold, although with a brief interval from 1958 to 1960, for thirty-six years. Candido also taught Brazilian Literature at the University of Paris from 1964 to 1966, and became visiting scholar at Yale University two years later.\n\nHis major work of literary criticism was published in 1959, entitled \"Formação da Literatura Brasileira\" (literally, \"Formation of Brazilian Literature), a highly polemic and influential study of the foundations of his country's literary arts.\n\nCandido was also active in politics during many periods of his life: he was a militant against Getúlio Vargas's Estado Novo and helped to found the Worker's Party in 1980.\n\nCandido married Gilda de Melo e Sousa in 1943, a Brazilian essayist and fellow professor at the University of São Paulo, with whom he has three daughters.\n\nCandido was hospitalized at Albert Einstein Hospital in São Paulo days before his death on May 12, 2017 due to a hiatus hernia. He was 98.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33398539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33398539", "title": "Archaeological Park of Urbs Salvia", "text": "Archaeological Park of Urbs Salvia\n\nThe Archaeological Park of Urbs Salvia is situated in the \"comune\" of Urbisaglia (Province of Macerata), in the Marches, Italy. It is the largest archaeological park in the region.\n\nThe city, located in the V Regio Picenum, was founded as a \"colonia\" during the 2nd century BC. \nIt was the birthplace of some leading figures of the Roman Empire, such as the consul Gaius Fufius Geminus and Lucius Flavius Silva Nonius Bassus. \nUrbs Salvia was sacked by the Visigoths in 408-10 AD, and suffered destruction over the years from earthquakes and plundering.\nThe decadence of the town is described by the poet Dante Alighieri (1265–1321) in his \"Divine Comedy\" (Paradiso, XVI, 73-78):\n\nIf Luni thou regard, and Urbisaglia,\nHow they have passed away, and how are passing\nChiusi and Senigallia after them,\n\nTo hear how races waste themselves away\nWill seem to thee no novel thing nor hard\nSeeing that even cities have an end.\nThe Archaeological Park of Urbs Salvia is exceptional on account of the ease with which the overall building plan can be deciphered. \nThe itinerary starts at the Archaeological Museum which houses, among other things, epigraphs, statues and portraits that were excavated in Urbisaglia from the middle of the 18th century onwards.\n\nJust outside the medieval city walls, on the highest point of the site, you can find the large reservoir collecting and cleaning the water coming from the Roman Aqueduct of Urbs Salvia. It was formed by an underground vaulted conduit with lateral walls made of bricks (opus latericium). The ancient aqueduct ran under the top of this hill and was about 1.5 km long. It had a gentle and constant slope so that it could carry water from a spring situated at the opposite side of the present-day Urbisaglia into this structure. \nThe cisterns consist of two barrel vaulted tunnels connected at both ends, with internal walls covered by hydraulic mortar. The whole structure was built in opus caementicium (Roman mortar).\nEach tunnel was about 51 m long, 2.90 m wide and 4.10 m high and had a capacity of about 1,000 cubic metres of water.\nThe reservoir provided the whole town with spring water and it was situated in the highest area inside Urbs Salvia so that it could be powered only by gravity. In the reservoir are still visible:\n\nProceeding downwards there is the imposing Roman Theatre, built in 23 AD, on the Hellenic model. The structure presents a \"cavea\" (auditorium) divided into three tiers of seats with entrances on the different levels. Around the cavea there is a corridor with steps running to the top, where there was a \"sacellum\" (small temple). Of the original stage the lower part of the walling is preserved; behind the stage, there is an artificial terrace which was framed by a colonnade supported by solid brick walling.\nLower down is a niched building, a containment wall which is to be included in the whole urban context pivoting on an axis characterized by the Theatre – Forum – Temple.\n\nAt the foot of the hill, conveniently placed alongside the Salaria Gallica (i.e. the main line of communication in the Picenum, here matching up with the Cardo Maximus of the town), was the sanctuary-complex. \nThe main temple had a six-column facade. What remains of the original structure is part of the podium lacking the white limestone slabs with which it was originally paved. It was dedicated to the Salus Augusta (protector goddess of the Emperor), and was probably used for the imperial cult promoted by Tiberius, successor of Augustus. The temple is enclosed by a porticus made up of four underground galleries with frescoes in the 3rd Pompeiian style. The frescoes represent haunting animals, masks, and pictures connected with Augustus' political propaganda (trophies).\nNext to the main temple there is a smaller one. Behind it there is an area which was probably devoted to the ritual use of water, and behind the main temple there is a via munita, corresponding to the first East cardo.\n\nJust outside the city walls, there are two funeral monuments and the Amphitheatre, one of the best preserved examples of this type in the Marche region. \nThe amphitheatre was built after the year 81 AD by the Urbisalvian Titus' military general Lucius Flavius Silva Nonius Bassus, who captured the Masada fortress in Palestine. The amphitheatre was used for gladiatorial contests and other entertainments. All its perimeter is preserved up to the first seating level, including the first level of the vomitoria (the exit-ways) and the bases of the pillars of the external corridor. In its original form it probably had three tiers of seats. The external wall of the \"cavea\" (auditorium) had a series of semicircular niches which later formed the supports of the stairs to the entrances on the upper floors. \nThe arena is 59m long and 35m wide. The two entrances at the major axis of the elliptical amphitheatre were for the gladiators.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31194939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31194939", "title": "Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies", "text": "Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies\n\nThe Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (ACMRS) is a statewide research unit in Arizona charged with coordinating and stimulating the interdisciplinary exploration of medieval and Renaissance culture. Its activities cover a period roughly from 400 C.E., the fall of the Roman Empire, to 1700 C.E. ACMRS organizes programs at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, Arizona State University in Tempe, and the University of Arizona in Tucson.\n\nACMRS is a tri-university research unit within the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences (Clas) at Arizona State University (ASU). ACMRS was established in 1981 by the Arizona Board of Regents for the purpose of promoting and coordinating all aspects of Medieval and Renaissance Studies at all three state universities through the support of research, lectures, symposia, conferences, visiting professorships, and publications. It cooperates with the Medieval and Renaissance Committees (MARC) of Northern Arizona University (NAU) and the University of Arizona (UA) to promote similar scholarly activity at ASU's sister universities.\n\nFrom 1982 until 1994, ACMRS was directed by Jean R. Brink from the Department of English at ASU. It is currently directed by Robert E. Bjork, also from the Department of English at ASU.\n\nIn establishing ACMRS, ASU employed Professor Fredi Chiappelli, then Director of the UCLA Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, as a consultant. Because he directed an internationally recognized center and had previously served as a visiting professor at the University of Arizona and as a visiting lecturer at Northern Arizona University and was therefore familiar with the Arizona universities, his participation in the founding of the Center was viewed as essential. The founding document approved by the Arizona Board of Regents (ABOR) in 1981 indicated the following provisions: ACMRS was to be located at ASU; a Director with an indefinite term was to be appointed; a steering committee composed of three scholars from each university, and other such detailed specifications.\n\nDuring the next stage in ACMRS history, continued lack of funding made it more and more difficult to maintain a statewide network. Communication by telephone and electronic mail continued to flourish, and some cooperation among faculty continued independently of a formal structure as well as through ACMRS. Local campus operations at the three universities, however, began to perform many of the functions originally envisioned for a statewide Center. Because of a statewide budgetary crisis, ACMRS was asked in the spring of 1993 to cut $50,000 from its budget. In response to that request some operating reductions were made, and some activities discontinued completely. The Center in this period had two full-time staff and several graduate student assistants besides the Director. The main activities included a lecture series, hosting the national conferences of the Sixteenth-Century Studies Society and the Renaissance Society of America, and a Distinguished Visiting Professor program.\n\nIn July 1994, Robert E. Bjork was appointed Director of ACMRS. Since his appointment, in addition to continuing programs already established such as an ad hoc lecture series, a graduate student travel award to the Medieval Congress at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo, and a book award for promising undergraduates intending to do post-graduate work in medieval or Renaissance studies, Bjork instituted over twenty programs or initiatives that changed the structure of ACMRS, lent it more national and international prominence, and reinvigorated cooperation among Arizona's three universities. Chief among these new programs was the inauguration of the annual interdisciplinary conference in 1995 and the institution of \"MRTS\" (\"Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies\") at ACMRS in 1996, a prestigious publication initiated at Binghamton University. As a result of all the programmatic changes instituted during this period, the ACMRS staff grew to five full-time staff personnel. By 1999, ACMRS had several well-established publishing programs besides \"MRTS\", and a much stronger local, national, and international presence than it had in the past.\n\nACMRS’s local, regional, national, and international standing continued to rise during this period; new programs and initiatives were put into place; and external and internal funding continued to grow. Grant writing both externally and internally, for example, increased to an average of sixteen proposals per year; and manuscript submissions to the Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies (MRTS) series continued to flow in. In the spring of 1999, Bjork inaugurated the lecture series “Distinguished Lectures in Medieval and Renaissance Studies” and over the course of that year entered into new joint publication ventures in the U.S. and abroad, established new book series, and continually increased cooperation between ASU, UA and NAU. Outreach programs likewise remained strong and internationally included joint meetings of the ACMRS conference with that of the Medieval Academy of America in 2001 that attracted 367 attendees from 12 countries and with that of the Renaissance Society of America in spring 2002 that attracted approximately 730 attendees worldwide. Since the acquisition of MRTS in 1996, ACMRS saved ASU College of Liberal Arts and Sciences an average of $7,224 per year in its salary commitment to ACMRS for the series and, because of that commitment, generated an average of $20,000 per year in grant support and $15,500 in additional salaries.\n\nIn 2002-3, ACMRS began to distribute the publications of the Viking Society for Northern Research at the University of London, the Istituto storico italiano per il Medio Evo in Rome, and Roma nel Rinascimento also in Rome; it also successfully negotiated with AMS Press for the publication of the annual journal \"Studies in Medieval and Renaissance History\". The biannual meeting of the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists, for which Director Bjork was president, came to Arizona then. In 2003-4, the ACMRS director negotiated agreements with the Medieval Studies Program at Pennsylvania State University and with the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists to publish series of their books and with Brepols to have another book series \"Late Medieval and Early Modern Studies\" produced under ACMRS’s auspices and the auspices of the University of Melbourne. These agreements were designed to embed ACMRS in the world community of medieval and Renaissance scholars and to foster international cooperation. And to gauge how successful ACMRS was becoming in funding its own programs, the Director conducted an informal survey of all medieval and Renaissance studies centers in North America, inquiring about what percentage of their annual budgets they managed to cover from their own funds and what percentage was covered by their universities. He discovered that as of March, 2003, ACMRS ranks first in this category, its closest competitor being the Medieval Institute at Western Michigan University, which hosts the largest medieval conference in the world every year and covers approximately 50% of its own budget. Beginning in 2007, ACMRS negotiated an agreement with the University of Maryland, College Park, to co-publish the journal \"Early Modern Women\"; it began a new subseries within MRTS called FRETS, \"French of England Texts and Studies\" with Fordham University and York University; and it became the joint sponsor with the Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship of MEDFEM-L (medieval feminist listserv). Last, the director served on the inaugural standing committee of CARMEN, Co-operative for the Advancement of Research through a Medieval European Network, a European organization whose main purpose is to generate ideas and institutional teams for major funding proposals to agencies in Europe such as the European Science Foundation. At the second meeting of CARMEN, held this time in Prato, Italy, Bjork also began negotiations for collaborative efforts between ACMRS and the developing Prato Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies of Monash University in Australia.\n\nThe Cambridge Summer Study Abroad Program, established by ACMRS in 1996, is a five-week program that offers students interdisciplinary study opportunities in the history and culture of medieval and Renaissance Britain. During the five-week program, students live in residence at St. Catharine's College, University of Cambridge. Courses are taught by faculty from Cambridge, Arizona universities and universities outside Arizona and include weekly excursions. \nThe Medieval and Renaissance Studies Certificate Program was established by ACMRS for students interested in pursuing their studies at ASU. This program is open to both graduate and undergraduate students.\n\nThis introduction to Latin Paleography internet course was developed by Professor Bernard Muir of the University of Melbourne and is offered by the ACMRS. This course in codicology and paleography offers training in the transcription of thirty-six western European book hands representing the period AD 200-1500.\n\nIn the spring of 1999, ACMRS established its Distinguished Lecture Series in Medieval and Renaissance Studies. Each semester, the Center brings one eminent scholar to ASU for a few days to present a public lecture, interact with upper-division and/or graduate classes, and meet informally with students and faculty. Often, ACMRS is also able to arrange speaking engagements for the distinguished visitor at the University of Arizona in Tucson and Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff.\n\nACMRS sponsors free public lectures by both visiting and local scholars.\n\nACMRS Annual Fall Symposia explore topics of interest to the general public. In past years they have dealt with subjects such as J. R. R. Tolkien, Robin Hood, Don Quixote, love and sex in medieval and Renaissance Italy, Arthurian legends, Jews, witch hunts, music and dance, and death and dying in the Middle Ages and Renaissance.\n\nACMRS hosts weekly reading groups in a variety of ancient languages such as Classical Latin, Medieval Latin, Old English, and Old Norse. These reading groups are free and open to the public; a venue for anyone to learn or practice in a small group environment.\n\nThe National Endowment for the Humanities sponsored “Disease in the Middle Ages”, a five-week seminar for college and university teachers held July 5 - August 8, 2009 in London, England.\n\nIter is a gateway to the Middle Ages and the Renaissance that includes a massive, retrospective, on-line medieval and Renaissance bibliography covering all languages and disciplines. Iter is partnered with the Renaissance Society of America, the Sixteenth Century Society and Conference, and the University of Toronto.\n\nACMRS participated in a project to make a sixteenth-century manuscript available to the public. The Geese Book is a large, lavishly illuminated, two-volume gradual made for the church of St. Lorenz in Nuremberg between 1504 and 1510. Today it is conserved in the J. Pierpont Morgan Library in New York (M. 905). And this multisensory work can now be explored through online multimedia technologies: complete digital\nfacsimile, sound recordings, high resolution images of the illuminations and video commentary. A team of experts headed by Volker Schier and Corine Schleif opened the Geese Book to scholars and broader audiences. Additionally an interactive DVD-ROM with sound recordings, explanatory material, documents, and essays will be prepared. Other facets of the project include a seminar, a concert, a radio documentary, and an audio compact disc.\n\n\nACMRS occasionally hosts the annual meetings of the Medieval Academy of America and the Medieval Association of the Pacific. The first occurred in 2001 and the second in 2011.\n\n\"Discipuli Juncti: Students Connected through the Middle Ages and the Renaissance\" is a conference, instituted by the ACMRS in 2007, gives undergraduate students who are interested in Medieval and/or Renaissance culture another opportunity to present their research or project to a group of their peers and others.\n\nIn 2003, ACMRS hosted the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists' Conference entitled \"Conversion and Colonization\".\n\nACMRS hosts the CARA Data Project, or Committee on Centers and Regional Associations, the Medieval Academy of America's online directory.\n\nACMRS houses the Lopez Collection, the books and papers of Robert S. Lopez, Sterling Professor of History and founder of the Medieval Studies Program at Yale University.\n\nMEDFEM-L is an un-moderated forum for discussion of feminist approaches to medieval studies. Established in the mid-1990s by volunteers interested in connecting people who shared interests in medieval feminist studies, the Advisory Board of the Society for Medieval Feminist Scholarship (SMFS) “adopted” medfem-l.\n\nThe World of Dante is a multi-media research tool intended to facilitate the study of the Divine Comedy through a wide range of offerings. These include an encoded Italian text which allows for structured searches and analyses, an English translation, interactive maps, diagrams, music, a database, timeline and gallery of illustrations. Many of these features allow users to engage the poem dynamically through the integrated components of this site.\n\n\"Mediaevistik\" is an international journal of interdisciplinary medieval research, edited by Peter Dinzelbacher and Albrecht Classen.\n\nASU Faculty may apply for a fellowship to receive a two-course teaching reduction during one semester. An ACMRS Visiting Distinguished Professor will bear the load of those two courses.\n\nACMRS offeres a travel award to a graduate student to present a paper at the International Medieval Congress, held every May at the Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo.\n\nThe ACMRS Undergraduate Book Award, in honor of founding director, Jean Brink, is given to an undergraduate student who has excelled academically in the study of the Middle Ages and/or Renaissance and who expects to continue study in one of these areas at the graduate level.\n\n\"Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies\" (MRTS) is a series of translations, studies, reference works, and editions including those of the Renaissance English Text Society (RETS). MRTS Online is a joint project between Iter and ACMRS to make select MRTS titles available in electronic format.\n\n\"Arizona Studies in the Middle Ages and the Renaissance\" (ASMAR) is edited by Robert Bjork and is published by Brepols Publishers, Belgium This series presents collections of essays in medieval and Renaissance Studies that are also the focus of the annual ACMRS Conference. The series will also include occasional volumes, generally on themes related to those of the annual conferences.\n\nACMRS Occasional Publications is a new series that will include works that are not necessarily scholarly in nature but have relevance to the teaching and study of the Middle Ages and Renaissance, such as memoirs, collections of personal essays, and historical fiction.\n\nThe Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies formed an imprint subsidiary to publish historical fiction centered in the medieval and Renaissance periods. Founded in 2011, Bagwyn Books is dedicated to publishing well-researched historical fiction novels that are appropriate for an audience ranging from young adult (ages 14+) to an adult audience.\n\nAnglo-Saxon Manuscripts in Microfiche Facsimile (ASMMF) is a project which makes available in microfiche nearly five hundred manuscripts containing Old English.\n\nIn the spring of 1999, Oxford University Press appointed ACMRS Director Bjork as General Editor of \"The Oxford Dictionary of the Middle Ages\" (\"ODMA\"), a new reference tool constructed on the general model of The Oxford Classical Dictionary, for all key aspects of European history, society, religion, and culture, c. 500 to c. 1500, including relevant aspects of the Byzantine Empire, the Islamic dynasties, and Asiatic peoples such as the Avars and the Mongols are included. ODMA was published in June 2010 and featured in many medieval blogs and news stories.\n\nLate Medieval and Early Modern Studies is jointly directed by ACMRS and the University of Melbourne and published by Brepols, this book series covers the historical period in Western and Central Europe from ca. 1300 to ca. 1650. It concentrates on topics of broad cultural, religious, intellectual and literary history.\n\n\"Discipuli Juncti\" Undergraduate Conference Papers are a collection of the best papers presented at the Annual ACMRS Undergraduate Conference.\n\n\"Studies in Medieval and Renaissance History\" is a journal that provides an outlet for the presentation of scholarship that often falls outside the limitations of other publications. It publishes interpretive and historiographical essays that explore the ramifications of current scholarship or that treat issues and themes of interest to any historian of the pre-modern period.\n\n\"Early Modern Women\": An Interdisciplinary Journal is a joint publication of ACMRS and the University of Maryland. This journal publishes essays on women and gender during the years 1500-1700 from all geographical areas and across all relevant fields: European, African, Islamic, Asian, and colonial studies, as well as studies of literature, art, music, history, history of science, religion, and anthropology.\n\nACMRS has assisted in publishing issues of \"Moreana\", a bilingual - French and English - journal published three times a year. \"Moreana\" provides an international forum for research and exchange about the world of Thomas More.\n\nIn October 2010, ACMRS unveiled the Heritage Edition of the St. John's Bible at its annual Distinguished Lecture in Medieval Studies. Dr. Rodney M. Thompson, Honorary Research Fellow at the School of History and Classics of the University of Tasmania, presented a lecture on the \"Great Illuminated Bibles of 12th-Century England: A Study in Splendor\" following the dedication of the specially-printed facsimile Bible. The seven-volume Heritage Edition was donated by Phoenix resident, George Berkner, a 1956 Saint John's University graduate. It resides at the Universities' Special Collections in Hayden Library at ASU and in the offices of ACMRS.\n\nIn the Spring of 2004, ACMRS received a unique medieval statue as a donation from the Metropolitan Museum of Art docent, Jeri Garbaccio and her husband Charles. The gift was accepted in honor of Florence E. Nelson of Scottsdale, Arizona and in memory of Renee Kra, former Managing Editor of \"Radiocarbon\" at the University of Arizona. The medieval figure is a three-foot wood polychromy seated king of Spanish origin, dating back to the second half of the thirteenth century. The statue is on display at the ACMRS main office in Tempe, Arizona.\n"}
{"id": "57940451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57940451", "title": "Biesdorf Palace", "text": "Biesdorf Palace\n\nThe Biesdorf Palace () is a Neoclassical-style building in Marzahn-Hellersdorf, Berlin. Constructed in 1868, Werner von Siemens acquired the palace in 1887. However, in 1889 he handed the building over to his son, Georg Wilhelm von Siemens. Damaged in World War II, the building was reconstructed on the basis of its original appearance, with the work being completed in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41712391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41712391", "title": "Broad City", "text": "Broad City\n\nBroad City is an American television sitcom, created by and starring Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson. It was developed from their web series of the same name, which was independently produced from 2009 to 2011. The creation of the web series began after Glazer received poor feedback on a project she and a partner had been working on. After expressing her frustration to Jacobson, the two decided to work on a project together, eventually creating the web series \"Broad City.\" The series is based on Glazer and Jacobson's real life friendship, and their attempt to \"make it\" in New York. Amy Poehler is one of \"Broad City\"s executive producers, and appeared in the webseries finale. The series premiered on Comedy Central on January 22, 2014.\n\n\"Broad City\"s fourth season premiered on September 13, 2017. The series is set to end after its fifth season, which will begin broadcasting on January 24, 2019.\n\n\"Broad City: High Score\", a mobile game developed and published by Built Games, launched worldwide on April 20, 2018.\n\n\"Broad City\" follows Ilana and Abbi, two Jewish American women in their twenties, who experience adventures of carelessness and frivolity in New York City. Ilana seeks to avoid working as much as possible while pursuing her relentless hedonism, and Abbi tries to make a career as an illustrator, often getting sidetracked into Ilana's schemes.\n\n\n\n\nGlazer and Jacobson met when they both attended courses at the Upright Citizens Brigade. In February 2010 they started their own web series on YouTube, which proved popular. Amy Poehler became aware of the series and mentored Glazer and Jacobson, becoming executive producer when the show came to TV. When Glazer and Jacobson wrote the pilot script, their characters were named Evelyn Wexler and Carly Abrams respectively, but ended up using their real first names instead. The pair continued writing most of the episodes together, with approximately half of the episodes to date bearing their names as writers.\n\nPaul W. Downs, who produces and stars as Trey, has written several episodes on the series with Lucia Aniello, who has also produced and directed episodes on the series. Paul has written \"Working Girls\" (episode 1.3), \"Knockoffs\" (episode 2.4) and \"Coat Check\" (episode 2.9).\n\nSince its premiere in 2014, \"Broad City\" has performed well, averaging 1.2 million viewers per episode, becoming Comedy Central's highest-rated first season since 2012 among the younger demographics, including adults 18–34.\nDespite initial commercial success and ongoing positive critical reviews, by March 2016 the show was receiving well under 1 million viewers, with less than 600,000 tuning in during the second week of the month.\n\nThe show has received critical acclaim. Review aggregation website Metacritic noted season 1 received \"generally favorable reviews,\" giving it a score of 75 out of 100, based on reviews from 14 critics. Karen Valby from \"Entertainment Weekly\" described the show as a \"deeply weird, weirdly sweet, and completely hilarious comedy.\" \"The Wall Street Journal\" referred to the show as \"Sneak Attack Feminism.\" Critic Megan Angelo quotes Abbi Jacobson, main star of Comedy Central's \"Broad City\": \"If you watch one of our episodes, there’s not a big message, but if you watch all of them, I think, they’re empowering to women.” \"The A.V. Club\" critic Caroline Framke wrote that \"Broad City\" was \"worth watching\" despite its \"well-trod premise,\" and that the series is \"remarkably self-possessed, even in its first episode.\"\n\nSeason 1 of the show received a 96% \"Certified Fresh\" rating from Rotten Tomatoes, based on reviews from 23 critics, with the site's consensus stating, \"From its talented producers to its clever writing and superb leads, \"Broad City\" boasts an uncommonly fine pedigree.\" The A.V. Club named \"Broad City\" the second best TV show of 2014 for its first season.\n\nSeason 2 received positive reviews, with Metacritic giving it a score of 89 out of 100, based on reviews from 8 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim.\" Rotten Tomatoes gave the second season a rating of 100%, based on reviews from 11 critics, with the site's consensus: \"Led by two of the funniest women on TV, \"Broad City\" uses its stars' vibrant chemistry to lend an element of authenticity to the show's chaotic yet enlightening brand of comedy.\"\n\nSeason 3 received positive reviews as well, with Metacritic giving it a score of 87 out of 100, based on reviews from 8 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim.\" \nBen Travers from Indiewire summarizes what he sees as the strengths of the first two episodes of season 3: \"Each half hour feels as free-wheeling and wild as Ilana so boldly is, but also as meticulously put-together as Abby [sic] strives to be...the integration of its two creators attitudes into the core makeup of the series helps to illustrate how groundbreaking \"Broad City\" really is.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "19032517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19032517", "title": "Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies", "text": "Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies\n\nByzantine and Modern Greek Studies or BMGS is a peer reviewed British journal which contains articles that pertain to both Byzantine Studies and Modern Greek studies, i.e. the language, literature, history and archaeology of the post-classical Greek world, from Late Antiquity to the present day, and also reviews of recent books of importance to Byzantine and Modern Greek studies. It is published annually, from 1975 to the current day, by the Centre of Byzantine, Ottoman and Modern Greek Studies at the University of Birmingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "22707932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22707932", "title": "Civilian noninstitutional population", "text": "Civilian noninstitutional population\n\nIn the United States, the civilian noninstitutional population refers to people 16 years of age and older residing in the 50 States and the District of Columbia who are not inmates of institutions (penal, mental facilities, homes for the aged), and who are not on active duty in the Armed Forces.\n\nThe data series can be obtained from the Federal Reserve Economic Database (FRED). As of September 2014, there were 248,446,000 persons in the civilian noninstitutional population out of a U.S. population of approximately 320 million. It has steadily grown along with the U.S. population, roughly 1% per year for 2005-2013 period.\n\nThe measure is used to help gauge the percentage of the population that is employed or in the workforce, as the denominator in the \"civilian employment to population ratio\", also called the EM ratio, and the \"civilian labor force participation rate.\" Trends in these figures are shown in the first graphic; the computation of these figures is shown in the second graphic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20320137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20320137", "title": "Cohort model", "text": "Cohort model\n\nThe cohort model in psycholinguistics and neurolinguistics is a model of lexical retrieval first proposed by William Marslen-Wilson in the late 1980s. It attempts to describe how visual or auditory input (i.e., hearing or reading a word) is mapped onto a word in a hearer's lexicon. According to the model, when a person hears speech segments real-time, each speech segment \"activates\" every word in the lexicon that begins with that segment, and as more segments are added, more words are ruled out, until only one word is left that still matches the input.\n\nThe cohort model relies on a number of concepts in the theory of lexical retrieval. The lexicon is the store of words in a person's mind.; it contains a person's vocabulary and is similar to a mental dictionary. A lexical entry is all the information about a word and the lexical storage is the way the items are stored for peak retrieval. Lexical access is the way that an individual accesses the information in the mental lexicon. A word's cohort is composed of all the lexical items that share an initial sequence of phonemes., and is the set of words activated by the initial phonemes of the word.\n\nThe cohort model is based on the concept that auditory or visual input to the brain stimulates neurons as it enters the brain, rather than at the end of a word. This fact was demonstrated in the 1980s through experiments with speech shadowing, in which subjects listened to recordings and were instructed to repeat aloud exactly what they heard, as quickly as possible; Marslen-Wilson found that the subjects often started to repeat a word before it had actually finished playing, which suggested that the word in the hearer's lexicon was activated before the entire word had been heard. Findings such as these led Marslen-Wilson to propose the cohort model in 1987.\n\nThe cohort model consists of three stages: access, selection, and integration. Under this model, auditory lexical retrieval begins with the first one or two speech segments, or phonemes, reach the hearer's ear, at which time the mental lexicon activates every possible word that begins with that speech segment. This occurs during the \"access stage\" and all of the possible words are known as the cohort. The words that are activated by the speech signal but are not the intended word are often called \"competitors.\" Identification of the target word is more difficult with more competitors. As more speech segments enter the ear and stimulate more neurons, causing the competitors that no longer match the input to be \"kicked out\" or to decrease in activation. The processes by which words are activated and competitors rejected in the cohort model are frequently called \"activation and selection\" or \"recognition and competition.\" These processes continue until an instant, called the \"recognition point\", at which only one word remains activated and all competitors have been kicked out. The recognition point process is initiated within the first 200 to 250 milliseconds of the onset of the given word. This is also known as the uniqueness point and it is the point where the most processing occurs. Moreover, there is a difference in the way a word is processed before it reaches its recognition point and afterwards. One can look at the process prior to reaching the recognition point as bottom-up, where the phonemes are used to access the lexicon. The post recognition point process is top-down, because the information concerning the chosen word is tested against the word that is presented. The selection stage occurs when only one word is left from the set. Finally, in the integration stage, the semantic and syntactic properties of activated words are incorporated into the high-level utterance representation.\n\nFor example, in the auditory recognition of the word \"candle,\" the following steps take place. When the hearer hears the first two phonemes and ((1) and (2) in the image), he or she would activate the word \"candle,\" along with competitors such as \"candy,\" \"can,\" \"cattle,\" and numerous others. Once the phoneme is added ((3) in the image), \"cattle\" would be kicked out; with , \"can\" would be kicked out; and this process would continue until the recognition point, the final of \"candle,\" were reached ((5) in the image). The recognition point need not always be the final phoneme of the word; the recognition point of \"slander,\" for example, occurs at the (since no other English words begin \"sland-\"); all competitors for \"spaghetti\" are ruled out as early as ; Jerome Packard has demonstrated that the recognition point of the Chinese word \"huŏchē\" (\"train\") occurs before \"huŏch-\"; and a landmark study by Pienie Zwitserlood demonstrated that the recognition point of the Dutch word \"kapitein\" (captain) was at the vowel before the final .\n\nSince its original proposal, the model has been adjusted to allow for the role that context plays in helping the hearer rule out competitors, and the fact that activation is \"tolerant\" to minor acoustic mismatches that arise because of coarticulation (a property by which language sounds are slightly changed by the sounds preceding and following them).\n\nMuch evidence in favor of the cohort model has come from priming studies, in which a \"priming word\" is presented to a subject and then closely followed by a \"target word\" and the subject asked to identify if the target word is a real word or not; the theory behind the priming paradigm is that if a word is activated in the subject's mental lexicon, the subject will be able to respond more quickly to the target word. If the subject does respond more quickly, the target word is said to be \"primed\" by the priming word. Several priming studies have found that when a stimulus that does not reach recognition point is presented, numerous words targets were all primed, whereas if a stimulus past recognition point is presented, only one word is primed. For example, in Pienie Zwitserlood's study of Dutch compared the words \"kapitein\" (\"captain\") and \"kapitaal\" (\"capital\" or \"money\"); in the study, the stem \"kapit-\" primed both \"boot\" (\"boat,\" semantically related to \"kapitein\") and \"geld\" (\"money,\" semantically related to \"kapitaal\"), suggesting that both lexical entries were activated; the full word \"kapitein\", on the other hand, primed only \"boot\" and not \"geld\". Furthermore, experiments have shown that in tasks where subjects must differentiate between words and non-words, reaction times were faster for longer words with phonemic points of discrimination earlier in the word. For example, discriminating between \"Crocodile\" and \"Dial\", the point of recognition to discriminate between the two words comes at the /d/ in \"crocodile\" which is much earlier than the /l/ sound in \"Dial\".\n\nLater experiments refined the model. For example, some studies showed that \"shadowers\" (subjects who listen to auditory stimuli and repeat it as quickly as possible) could not shadow as quickly when words were jumbled up so they didn't mean anything; those results suggested that sentence structure and speech context also contribute to the process of activation and selection.\n\nResearch in bilinguals has found that word recognition is influenced by the number of neighbors in both languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "12805663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12805663", "title": "Creolistics", "text": "Creolistics\n\nCreolistics, or Creology, is the scientific study of creole languages and, as such, is a subfield of linguistics. Someone who engages in this study is called a creolist.\n\nCreolistics investigates the relative creoleness of languages suspected to be creoles, what calls \"the cline of creoleness.\" No consensus exists among creolists as to whether the nature of creoleness is prototypical or merely evidence indicative of a set of recognizable phenomena seen in association with little inherent unity and no underlying single cause.\n\n\"Creoleness\" is at the heart of the controversy with John McWhorter and Mikael Parkvall opposing Henri Wittmann (1999) and Michel DeGraff. In McWhorter's definition, creoleness is a matter of degree, in that prototypical creoles exhibit all of the three traits he proposes to diagnose creoleness: little or no inflection, little or no tone, transparent derivation; In McWhorter's view, less prototypical creoles depart somewhat from this prototype. Along these lines, McWhorter defines Haitian Creole, exhibiting all three traits, as \"the most creole of creoles.\" A creole like Palenquero, on the other hand, would be less prototypical, given the presence of inflection to mark plural, past, gerund, and participle forms. Objections to the McWhorter-Parkvall hypotheses point out that these typological parameters of creoleness can be found in languages such as Manding, Sooninke, and Magoua French which are not considered creoles. Wittmann and DeGraff come to the conclusion that efforts to conceive a yardstick for measuring creoleness in any scientifically meaningful way have failed so far. comes to the same conclusion for Riau Indonesian. have adduced evidence as to creole languages which respond unexpectedly to one of McWhorter's three features (for example, inflectional morphology in Berbice Dutch Creole, tone in Papiamentu). and have argued further that Creole languages are structurally no different from any other language, and that Creole is in fact a sociohistoric concept (and not a linguistic one), encompassing displaced population and slavery. discuss creolistics in relation to colonialist ideologies, rejecting the notion that Creoles can be responsibly defined in terms of specific grammatical characteristics. They discuss the history of linguistics and nineteenth-century work that argues for the consideration of the sociohistorical contexts in which Creole languages emerged.\n\nOn the other hand, McWhorter points out that in languages such as Bambara, essentially a dialect of Manding, there is ample non-transparent derivation, and that there is no reason to suppose that this would be absent in close relatives such as Mandinka itself. Moreover, he also observes that Soninke has what all linguists would analyze as inflections, and that current lexicography of Soninke is too elementary for it to be stated with authority that it does not have non-transparent derivation. Meanwhile, Magoua French, as described by Henri Wittmann, retains some indication of grammatical gender, which qualifies as inflection, and it also retains non-transparent derivation. Michel DeGraff's argument has been that Haitian Creole retains non-transparent derivation from French.\n\nTo the defense of DeGraff and Wittmann it must be said that McWhorter's 2005 book is a collection of previously published papers and that it contains nothing on \"defining creole\", Manding, Sooninke or Magoua that wasn't already known when DeGraff and Wittmann published their critiques as can be seen from their published debate. As it is, McWhorter's book does not offer anything new by the way of analysis of Manding, Soninke, or Magoua that wasn't already debated on in his exchange with Wittmann on Creolist. The issues in question are, at this point, unresolved as to sustaining McWhorter's hypotheses in any significant way though DeGraff's 2005 contribution addresses their weaknesses as far as Haitian Creole is concerned adding new evidence against. The only conclusion possibly so far as the typological differences between Manding, Soninke, Magoua and Haitian are concerned is that their comparative data do not confirm McWhorter's yardstick approach to defining creole.\n\nThe answer might be that creoleness is better described and referred to as a syndrome. In some cases, the modified source language might be the substrate language when warranted by a homogeneous substrate. In other cases, the modified source language clearly is what creolists identify as the superstrate language' and in still other cases, no single source language might be identifiable. The same approach must be applied to identifying individual features as inherited or non-inherited and to distilling the defining grounds which separate creole languages from mixed languages such as Michif, especially when relexification is somehow claimed to be a moving factor.\n\nThe answer might also be, however, that creole languages (i.e. like Haitian Creole) are indeed a unique in terms of the perspective that they offer on the human language competence in terms of the nature of their grammars though there have been no new responses to the counter-claims of DeGraff and Wittmann that would warrant the reopening of the debate as for now. However, critically assesses the proposal that creole languages exist as a homogeneous structural type with shared and/ or peculiar origins.\n\nThough the call for a sane approach to creolistics goes back to , the first unbiased overview of the scientifically meaningful characteristics of creole languages must go to the credit of . In their account of approaches to creole genesis, they group theories into four categories:\n\nThe authors also confine Pidgins and mixed languages into separate chapters outside this scheme whether or not relexification come into the picture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49888912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49888912", "title": "Determinatio", "text": "Determinatio\n\nA determinatio is an authoritative determination by the legislator concerning the application of practical principles, that is not necessitated by deduction from natural or divine law but is based on the contingencies of practical judgement within the possibilities allowed by reason.\n\nIn natural law jurisprudence, \"determinatio\" is the process of making natural law into positive law In Catholic canon law, \"determinatio\" is the act by which natural law or divine positive law is made determinate in the canonical legal system as specific norms of law, although the content of such law is still essentially that of divine law, which, together with canon law, forms \"a single juridical system of law\".\n\nThe concept derives from the legal philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, and continues to be a part of discussions in natural law theory.\n\n\"Determinatio\" is a legal doctrine in the jurisprudence of the canon law of the Catholic Church. It was imported from the legal philosophy of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThe general norms of divine or natural law serve as \"shaping factors\" and \"a necessary basis\" for the human-made canon law, but such general norms in themselves cannot have a greater legal effect until they are made into specific human laws, since the norms of divine law are \"general and non-specific\".\n\nBut in the movement from the general to the concrete, there are sometimes many possibilities; that is, divine or natural law can be made concrete in may different ways, and all the legitimate alternatives are in line with the requirements of divine law. Wherefore the legislator must make a \"determinatio\" and \"opt or choose among them\".\n\n"}
{"id": "760191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=760191", "title": "Dragon Quest IV", "text": "Dragon Quest IV\n\nDragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen, originally published as Dragon Warrior IV in North America, is a role-playing video game and the fourth installment of the \"Dragon Quest\" video game series developed by Chunsoft and published by Enix. It was originally released for the Famicom on 11 February 1990 in Japan. A North American NES version followed in October 1992, and would be the last \"Dragon Quest\" game localized and published by Enix's Enix America Corporation subsidiary prior to its closure in November 1995, as well as the last \"Dragon Quest\" game to be localized into English prior to the localization of \"Dragon Warrior Monsters\" in December 1999. The game was remade by Heartbeat for the PlayStation, which eventually was available as an Ultimate Hits title. This was followed with a second remake developed by ArtePiazza for the Nintendo DS, released in Japan on 22 November 2007. This remake was released in Australia on 11 September 2008, in Europe on 12 September 2008 and in North America on September 16, 2008. A version based on the Nintendo DS remake for Android and iOS was released in 2014.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV\" differs from the rest of the series by breaking up the game into five distinct chapters, each of which focuses on a different protagonist or protagonists. The first four are told from the perspective of the Hero's future companions and the fifth one, from the hero's perspective, brings all the characters together as they start their journey to save the world. The PlayStation remake adds a sixth chapter, which is retained in the DS remake.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV\" offered several new features over the first three titles, while carrying on many of those introduced in the previous games. Similar features included are the day and night cycles, the ability to travel via ship and a flying vehicle (this time, a hot air balloon), and the three levels of keys. They are Thief, Magic and Ultimate (originally localized as Final). There are also travel doors, which allow the party to move a great distance on the world map with little travel. Unlike the Hero in \"Dragon Warrior III\", the Hero of \"Dragon Quest IV\" is not required to be in the party at all once the wagon becomes available. Despite this, the Hero is again the character that possesses the most powerful healing and attack spells. Many spells, weapons, armor, and shops (including the vault/bank) function the same as in past games.\n\nIn addition to the new chapter-based storylines, an artificial intelligence system called \"Tactics\" was implemented that allowed the player to provide strategies to the party members (who become NPCs in the final chapter), such as prioritizing damage, healing or MP conservation, while maintaining full control of the Hero. \"\", \"\" and the remakes of IV allow tactics to be set for characters individually rather than using one tactics mode for all characters, as well as including the \"Follow Orders\" Tactics mode, which allows other characters to be controlled manually. This \"Tactics\" system is seen as a precursor to \"Final Fantasy XII\"'s \"Gambits\" system. The wagon, first introduced in this game, allows the player to choose which characters are used in battle. The wagon can also be seen in \"Dragon Quest V\" and \"Dragon Quest VI\". The first casino appears in this installment as a place to play several mini-games (slot machine, poker, and the Monster Betting that was introduced in \"Dragon Warrior III\") using tokens that could be traded for special items. Searching drawers and inside of jars was first introduced in this game as a means to find items. Small Medals, later Mini Medals, were introduced as a new item to search for and trade for special unique items from a secluded king.\n\nSaving the game was made easier by allowing one to save a game in a House of Healing, rather than talking to a king. Also, the save (\"Confession\" in the DS remake) and EXP point to the next level-up (\"Divination\" in the DS remake) are now separate commands. Returning to the format of the original North American \"Dragon Warrior\", programmers allowed users to open a door using a command appearing in the top level of the menu (rather than requiring users to search through various characters' inventories for the key as in some previous games). The only requirement was that at least one character in the party needed to have an appropriate key in his or her inventory. Since this command was added, an unlocked door was added in this game, as well as large Castle Doors. However, this command was eliminated in later games and the remake, in which doors can be opened by attempting to walk through them.\n\nIn the original version, the game is divided into five chapters. The first four provide back-story for the Hero’s party members, while the fifth follows the Hero himself or herself as he or she meets up with the other characters. \n\nChapter One begins when a knight from Burland (Ragnar) is tasked to find children who have gone missing from a nearby town. Ragnar finds and defeats the monster responsible for the abductions and returns the children to their homes. In doing so, he learns the monsters were looking for the Legendary Hero (in order to kill him or her), who is supposedly still a child. Ragnar decides to leave his home and set out on a quest to protect him.\n\nChapter Two follows the tomboyish Princess Alena and her two friends/mentors, tutor Borya (localized as Brey) and chancellor Kiryl (localized as Cristo) as she travels to prove her strength. Partway through her journey, Alena’s father (the King) loses his voice after speaking of a dream he had depicting the end of the world. After restoring his voice, she travels to the town of Endor to enter a fighting tournament. She defeats all of the combatants except a warrior named Psaro the Manslayer (originally localized as Saro until he rescues Rosa from humans and changes his name to Necrosaro), who fails to appear. After the victory, she returns to her home castle to find all the inhabitants have gone missing, so she sets out to find out what happened to everyone.\n\nChapter Three follows a merchant named Torneko (localized as Taloon), a humble merchant working in a weapon shop in his hometown with his wife and young son. His dream is to own his own shop and be the world's greatest merchant. As he travels and performs favors at the towns he visits, Torneko eventually obtains permission to purchase a shop in Endor. By finding the rare Silver Statuette in a nearby cave, Torneko is able to obtain the funds to purchase the shop and move his family to Endor. After establishing a successful business with his wife, he hears about a set of legendary weapons, which he sets out to find by funding the construction of an underground passageway to a neighboring continent.\n\nChapter Four follows Maya and Meena, two sisters seeking revenge for the murder of their father. By teaming up with a former student of their father (Oojam), they manage to plot a way into Keeleon Castle and find the man responsible. They avenge their father’s murder by defeating the King of Keeleon, but are quickly defeated by the King's master and thrown in the dungeon. Oojam sacrifices himself to allow the sisters to escape the castle. They then decide to flee the continent and head for Endor, where they hope to learn more about their new foe and about the Legendary Hero, whom they became aware of during their travels.\n\nChapter Five follows the game's protagonist, known as the Hero. It begins with the Hero’s hometown being attacked by monsters, led by Psaro the Manslayer. The Hero manages to escape, and is joined by the main characters of the previous chapters, as well as Hoffman, who drives the cart. Together, they spy on Psaro and discover that Estark, the Ruler of Evil (originally localized as Esturk), has been awakened. Their quest then becomes to travel to Estark’s palace and defeat him.\n\nIn the town of Strathbaile (originally localized as Izmit), the heroes have a dream that explains Psaro’s plan. Developing a deep hatred of humanity after the death of his elven girlfriend, Rose (originally localized as Rosa), at the hands of humans, Psaro plans to become the next Ruler of Evil using the power of evolution he obtained from the \"Armlet of Transmutation\" (an item Alena's party had obtained and given away in Chapter 2 as a ransom payment for a kidnapped woman.) The party then obtains the four pieces of the Zenithian weapons and armor (sword, shield, body armor, and helm) to permit entry into Zenithian Castle. There, they meet the Zenith Dragon, who takes them to Nadiria (originally localized as Evil World), where Psaro is undergoing his evolution into the new Ruler of Evil. There, they defeat his generals before challenging Psaro. After fighting a continually evolving form of Psaro, he is vanquished.\n\nThe PlayStation and DS remakes include a sixth chapter. This chapter focuses on the heroes working with Psaro to avenge the death of Rose, and finally put the world back in order. Throughout this chapter, Rose is revived and the party is able to defeat her true killer, the Dark Priest Aamon (originally localized as Radimvice), one of Psaro the Manslayer's subordinates who intended to take the secrets of evolution for himself and usurp Psaro the Manslayer, setting all plans in motion that drove Psaro to his insanity.\n\nThese are the main characters of the story, and are controllable party members during their introduction chapters (Chapters 1-4). When they join the Hero in Chapter 5, the other party members become NPC characters that are only controlled by the \"Tactics\" command. In the re-releases, this setting can be changed to \"Follow Orders\", which allows the player to choose their actions. Also, with the re-releases, many of the character's names were changed to be closer, or incorporate their Original Japanese names.\n\n\nNon-Playable Characters:\n\nThese characters join the party temporarily. Unlike permanent party members, they cannot gain levels or experience points, cannot change their equipment, and their actions in battle cannot be controlled through the \"Tactics\" command (instead, they are always lockd into their default AI mode).\n\n\nAccording to Yuji Horii, he wanted to have something the player went around collecting as the previous \"Dragon Quest\" games had crests and orbs respectively. However, he did not want to do the same thing over again by forcing the player to collect a certain number of items before they beat the game; mini medals instead have nothing to do with clearing the game. The promotional illustrations for the Japanese version was drawn by famed manga artist Akira Toriyama, whom provided the artwork for the previous games in the series and would continue to do so for every future installment.\n\nUnlike all the other games up to this point, the changes in this version were not as radical. Among them were the usual religious/violence censorship, new graphics for the opening copyright and ending credits, and the betting in the Casino was slightly modified to allow more money being won during a bet.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV\" was remade for the PlayStation on November 22, 2001 in Japan. It was developed by Heartbeat and published by Enix. The remake was developed using \"Dragon Quest VII's\" 3D graphics engine. The characters, towns, world maps, sound, battles and enemies all received updates. The character sprites were updated to match the original artwork for the characters in the original \"Dragon Quest IV\" Manual and artwork.\nWith this remake came several new features. Among these features were a new chapter in which Psaro is available as a party member (as well as a prologue chapter), an intra-party talk command similar to \"Dragon Quest VII\", and the ability to turn off the artificial intelligence for party members to allow for direct control of their attacks (except UC Party Members). The game sold over one million copies in Japan by the end of 2001.\n\nEnix America originally planned to bring the remake to North America in 2002 and had even advertised this upcoming release on the back cover to the US instruction manual for \"Dragon Warrior VII\", but it was later canceled due to Heartbeat closing its video game development operations before the localization and translation could be completed. It was later explained that the cost and time that a different company would need to invest to complete the translation prevented Enix from passing this to another developer, as Heartbeat was the most familiar with their own design.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV\" was later re-released for the Nintendo DS in Japan in November 2007. The game has been remade into a 2D/3D hybrid, similar to the PlayStation version. This release has kept many of the enhancements from the PlayStation, such as the slightly altered immigrant town, but has received enhanced upgrades to smooth the graphics further, and improved sound. This release also allows players to take manual control of all of their party members in the final two chapters.\n\nShortly after the Japanese release, several people editing the Japanese ROM file discovered a near complete English translation along with Spanish, French, German, and Italian translations already inside the Japanese game. On April 9, 2008, Square Enix applied for a trademark to the title \"Chapters of the Chosen\", and speculation began that this was the new subtitle to \"Dragon Quest IV\" for an American release.\n\nOn April 18, 2008, \"Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen\" was found to have a rating of E10+ by the ESRB, for Alcohol Reference, Animated Blood, Mild Fantasy Violence, Mild Language, Simulated Gambling, and Suggestive Themes. An official release date of September 16, 2008 was finally established on the official North American site. The game was released in Europe under the title \"Dragon Quest: Chapters of the Chosen\", omitting the number IV in a similar fashion to the European version of .\n\nThis version of the game contains an entirely new translation of the script. It was claimed in Nintendo Power that the new translation has changed the names of many of the main characters, weapons and towns to be closer to, or include their original Japanese names, while adding several new localizations, yet an analysis of the location and character names indicates the original localization of \"Dragon Warrior IV\" was closer to the original Japanese. This version also uses the new spell naming convention first used in \"\", such as the spell \"Beat\" from \"Dragon Warrior IV\" becoming \"Whack\". The western translations have been slightly changed in places where the Japanese version included sexual components, and the Japanese version's party talk feature was completely excised from the western versions.\n\nThe Nintendo DS English translation includes 13 regional dialects for the various areas, including Burland now being Scottish, and Zamoksva being Russian. Simon Carless of Gamasutra feels that the use of dialects can help some people to understand different cultures, saying, \"It has the potential to nurture cross-language and cross-cultural understanding in a very intelligent manner.\"\n\nA version based on Nintendo DS remake was released in Japan on April 17, 2014 for Android and iOS. It was released internationally on August 7, 2014. The Android version of the game features cloud saving, autosaves, a quick save feature, and a pause feature for ease of use on the mobile platform. This version also reintroduces the party talk feature removed from the international Nintendo DS releases, being translated into the appropriate language.\n\nA five volume manga called \"Dragon Quest: Princess Alena\" was released. It followed the story of Chapter 2, Alena's adventure, but begins to divert during the events in the Birdsong Tower. From this point forward, it introduces several new characters, including the evil Evil Leather Dominatrix Woman, and new locations, including an Arctic location and a haunted house. This story ends with Alena fighting Psaro and defeating him before he goes on with the Golden Bracelet to perfect the secret of evolution.\n\nAs with every \"Dragon Quest\", Koichi Sugiyama composed the music and directed all the associated spinoffs. The song heard during gameplay depends on a number of factors. A specific track is always played for towns, another for caves or dungeons, another while the party is mounted on the hot air balloon, for instance. Lastly, while out in the world, each of the first four acts has its own theme song, as does the Hero—in act five, the theme song played depends on who is the first character in the formation.\n\nThe original \"Dragon Warrior IV\" was one of the few NES games to feature a \"crescendo\" during the battle music, a gradual increase in volume from soft to loud. This technique was rare for an NES game. However, the PlayStation and Nintendo DS versions do not feature the crescendo in the battle music. This level of detail can be found in the NES version's soundtrack, as well as the 2014 Android and iOS mobile releases.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV ~The People Are Shown the Way~ Symphonic Suite\" is a compilation of music from \"Dragon Quest IV\". The first print of the album was in 1990, the London Philharmonic version came out a year later, and a reprint of the original was released in 2000.\n\nIn 1991, Enix released a set of videos featuring Koichi Sugiyama conducting the London Philharmonic Orchestra performing the soundtrack in Warwick Castle, along with clips of acting.\n\n\"Dragon Warrior IV\" was awarded \"Best Game Grand Prize\", \"Best RPG Game\" and the \"Best-Seller Award\" in \"Famitsu\"s 1990 awards, \"Best Challenge\" and 2nd place \"Best Overall Game\" in 1993 by \"Nintendo Power\".\n\nIn August 2008, \"Nintendo Power\" ranked \"Dragon Warrior IV\" the 18th best Nintendo Entertainment System video game, describing it as the peak of the NES' \"Dragon Quest\" series and praising it for its innovative five-act story that made it one of their favourite old-school role-playing games. Readers of \"Famitsu\" voted the game as the 14th best game of all time in a 2006 poll. In particular, critics noticed with interest that the game's third chapter, Torneko's, departed largely from standard RPGs by making the only goal to collect money and by allowing players to have Torneko simply working in an in-game store.\n\nIn Japan, the original Famicom version sold 3.1 million units, it's the fourth best selling game of the system, below its predecessor, \"Dragon Quest III\". One million of its sales occurred in its first day of release.\n\nThe PlayStation version of \"Dragon Quest IV\" was the 4th best-selling game in Japan in 2001 with over 1 million copies sold, and has sold nearly 1.2 million copies as of December 26, 2004.\n\nAs of August 8, 2008, the DS remake has sold 1.15 million units in Japan. \"Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen\" was a nominee for Best RPG on the Nintendo DS in IGN's 2008 video game awards. The game has sold 1.46 million copies worldwide as of May 31, 2009. Critics pointed out that the game may feel outdated, especially to players not accustomed to \"Dragon Quest\" games, but that some of the characters, such as Ragnar, make the game stand out of the recent JRPGs. \"Ragnar McRyan is in no way a character designed off the back of some intense Japanese schoolgirl demographic focus testing\", wrote Eurogamer's Simon Parkin, pleased.\n\n\"Dragon Quest IV\" is the first game in the series to spawn spin-offs. The merchant Torneko (also known as Taloon in the NES version) was popular enough to star his own series, in which he finds himself in quests in order to expand his store. These games are the \"Torneko no Daibouken\" sub-series (translated as \"Torneko's Great Adventure\"), roguelike and random dungeon games produced by Enix (and Square Enix) and developed by Chunsoft. The success of the games later inspired the creation of the \"Mystery Dungeon\" series.\n\nRagnar, Healie, and Torneko all later appear as cameos in \"\" in the Monster Arena. Torneko later cameos in \"\" as a merchant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2069489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069489", "title": "Economic, social and cultural rights", "text": "Economic, social and cultural rights\n\nEconomic, social and cultural rights are socio-economic human rights, such as the right to education, right to housing, right to adequate standard of living, right to health, victims' rights and the right to science and culture. Economic, social and cultural rights are recognised and protected in international and regional human rights instruments. Member states have a legal obligation to respect, protect and fulfil economic, social and cultural rights and are expected to take \"progressive action\" towards their fulfilment.\n\nThe Universal Declaration on Human Rights recognises a number of economic, social and cultural rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) is the primary international legal source of economic, social and cultural rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women recognises and protects many of the economic, social and cultural rights recognised in the ICESCR in relation to children and women. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination prohibits discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation to a number of economic, social and cultural rights. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also prohibits all discrimination on the basis of the disability including refusal of the reasonable accommodation relating to full enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nEconomic, social and cultural rights are recognized and protected in a number of international and regional human rights instruments.\n\nThe Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR), adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948, is one of the most important sources of economic, social and cultural rights. It recognizes the right to social security in Article 22, the right to work in Article 23, the right to rest and leisure in Article 24, the right to an adequate standard of living in Article 25, the right to education in Article 26, and the right to benefits of science and culture in Article 27.\n\nThe International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) is the primary international legal source of economic, social and cultural rights. The Covenant recognized and protects the right to work and to just and favorable working conditions in Article 6 and 7, the right to join trade unions and take collective labor action in Article 8, the right to social security in Article 9, the right to protection of the family, including protection for mothers and children, in Article 10, the right to an adequate standard of living, including the right to food and the right to housing, in Article 11, the right to health in Article 12, the right to education in Article 13, as well as the right to participate in cultural life and the right to benefits of science and culture in Article 15. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted at the same time as the ICESCR, recognizes and protects a number of core economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to join trade unions in Article 22, and the right of ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities to engage in their culture, practice their religion and use their language in Article 27.\n\nA number of other major international human rights instruments contain provisions relating to economic, social and cultural rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes and protects many of the economic, social and cultural rights recognized in the ICESCR in relation to children. Including the right to health in Article 24, the right to social security in Article 25, the right to an adequate standard of living in Article 27, the right to education in Article 28, and the right to protection from economic exploitation (see child labour) in Article 32. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination prohibits discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation to a number of economic, social and cultural rights. The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women affirms a range of economic, social and cultural rights to women. The ILO Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) protect a range of work related economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights protects the right to work in Article 15, the right to health in Article 16, and the right to education in Article 17. The European Social Charter protects a wide range of economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to work, to favourable working conditions, the right to join trade unions and to take collective labour action in Article 1 to 10, the right to health in Article 11, the right to social security, including the right to medical assistance and the right to social welfare services, in Article 12 to 14, protection of especially vulnerable groups are enshrined in Article 15 to 17 and 19, and right to housing in Article 31. The Protocol of San Salvador protects a range of economic, social and cultural rights within the Inter-American human rights system.\n\nA range of secondary legal sources exist on economic, social and cultural rights which provide guidance on their normative definition. An important secondary legal source is the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights which is overseeing the implementation of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). The Committee has been central in developing the normative definition of key economic, social and cultural rights, interpreting the role of State Parties to the ICESCR, and monitoring protection and violation of the ICESCR rights. The Committee issues guiding pronouncements in the form of \"general comments\", and other human rights treaty bodies may also issue comments relevant to economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nOther important secondary legal sources on economic, social and cultural rights are the Limburg Principles on the Implementation of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 1987 and the Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 1997. The Limburg Principles have been extensively used in national legal systems as an interpretive tool for establishing violations of economic, social and cultural rights. The Maastricht Guidelines build on the Limburg Principles and identify the legal implications of acts and omissions which are violations of economic, social and cultural rights. Various United Nations Special Rapporteurs have influenced the normative development of economic, social and cultural rights. Appointed by the Commission on Human Rights and its sub-commissions, key rapporteurs include the Special Rapporteur on the Realization of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the Special Rapporteur on the Right to Adequate Housing, the Special Rapporteur on the Right to Education, and the Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women.\n\nA number of national constitutions recognize economic, social and cultural rights. For example, the 1996 Constitution of South Africa includes economic, social and cultural rights and the South African Constitutional Court has heard claims under these obligations (see \"Grootboom\" and \"Treatment Action Campaign\" cases). India's constitution, which does not explicitly recognize economic and social rights in their constitution, has nonetheless found that these rights exist, though unenumerated, inferable from the right to life. \n\nEconomic, social and cultural right enshrined in international and regional human rights instruments are legally binding. Member states have a legal obligation to respect, protect and fulfil these rights. The exact nature of states' obligations in this respect has been established principally in relation to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), and further Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has been established in accordance with Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action\n\nState parties to the ICESCR are required to take \"progressive action\" towards fulfilment of the ICESR rights. While immediate fulfilment may not be possible due to the economic situation of a country, postponement of proactive action is not permitted. State parties must show genuine efforts to secure the economic, social and cultural rights enshrined in the ICESCR. The burden of proof for progressive action is considered on be with the state party. The prohibition on discrimination in relation to economic, social and cultural rights is regarded as having immediate effect. State parties must abolish laws, policies and practices which affect the equal enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights and take action to prevent discrimination in public life. All state parties, regardless of the economic situation in the country or resource scarcity, are required to ensure respect for minimum subsistence rights for all. State parties must also ensure that available resources are accessed and used equitably. Therefore, government decisions on how to allocate resources should be subject to scrutiny. Legislative measures alone are not sufficient to ensure compliance with the ICESCR and state parties are expected to provide judicial remedies in addition to taking administrative, financial, educational and social measures.\n\nIntergovernmental organisations and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) have persistently neglected economic, social and cultural rights over the past 50 years. While all human rights are said to be \"equal, indivisible, interrelated, and interdependent\", the monitoring, enforcement and implementation framework for economic, social and cultural rights is less advanced than that for civil and political rights. International enforcement mechanisms are strongest for civil and political rights, and their violation is considered more serious than that of economic, social and cultural rights. There are few international NGOs that focus on economic, social and cultural rights and there are few lawyers who have the knowledge or experience to defend economic, social and cultural rights at a national or international level. Economic, social and cultural rights are less likely than civil and political rights to be protected in national constitutions.\n\nIn 2008, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which gives the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights competence to receive and consider communications from individuals claiming that their rights under the Covenant have been violated by a state party. The Protocol entered into force on 5 May 2013.\n\nNetworking groups such as ESCR-Net are working to create online resources and spread information about effective cases, initiatives, and working groups promoting ideals and celebrating victories of human rights initiatives and the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Currently, human rights advocacy groups are working diligently to fine-tune rules, regulations and implementation schemes; little news of complaint successes or failures is available. The Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions (COHRE) has helped to establish the Housing and Property Directorate (HPD/HPCC) in Kosovo.\n\nAccording to Karel Vasak's theory of three generations of human rights, economic, social and cultural rights are considered second-generation rights, while civil and political rights, such as freedom of speech, right to a fair trial, and the right to vote, are considered first-generation rights. The theory of negative and positive rights considers economic, social and cultural rights positive rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "1921074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1921074", "title": "El Castillo, Chichen Itza", "text": "El Castillo, Chichen Itza\n\nEl Castillo (, Spanish for \"the castle\"), also known as the Temple of Kukulcan (or sometimes Kukulkan), is a Mesoamerican step-pyramid that dominates the center of the Chichen Itza archaeological site in the Mexican state of Yucatán. The building is more formally designated by archaeologists as Chichen Itza Structure 5B18.\n\nBuilt by the pre-Columbian Maya civilization sometime between the 9th and 12th centuries CE, El Castillo served as a temple to the god Kukulkan, the Yucatec Maya Feathered Serpent deity closely related to the god Quetzalcoatl known to the Aztecs and other central Mexican cultures of the Postclassic period.\n\nThe pyramid consists of a series of square terraces with stairways up each of the four sides to the temple on top. Sculptures of plumed serpents run down the sides of the northern balustrade. Around the spring and autumn equinoxes, the late afternoon sun strikes off the northwest corner of the pyramid and casts a series of triangular shadows against the northwest balustrade, creating the illusion of a feathered serpent \"crawling\" down the pyramid. The event has been very popular and is witnessed by thousands of visitors at the spring equinox, but it is questionable whether it is a result of a purposeful design, because the light-and-shadow effect can be observed, without major changes, during several weeks around the equinoxes. Each of the pyramid's four sides has 91 steps which, when added together and including the temple platform on top as the final \"step\", produces a total of 365 steps (which is equal to the number of days of the \"Haab'\" year).\n\nThe structure is high, plus an additional for the temple. The square base measures across.\n\nThe construction of El Castillo, like other Mesoamerican pyramids, likely reflected the common practice of executing several phases of construction. The last construction probably took place between 900-1000 CE, while the substructure may have been constructed between 600-800 AD. Based on archaeological research, construction of El Castillo was based on the concept of \"axis mundi\". It is thought that the space remained sacred regardless of the structure positioned on the location. When a temple or pyramid structure was renewed, the former construction was ritually destroyed, which involved resolving the space of spiritual forces to preserve its sacredness. It is estimated that this construction dates to the eleventh century CE. After all of the work was completed, an entryway was cut into the balustrade of the northeastern exterior staircase to provide access to tourists. The older, inner pyramid is referred to as the \"substructure\".\n\nIn 1566, the pyramid was described by Friar Diego de Landa in the manuscript known as Yucatán at the Time of the Spanish Encounter (Relación de las cosas de Yucatán). Almost three centuries later, John Lloyd Stephens described with even more detail the architecture of the pyramid in his book Incidents of Travel in Yucatán (Incidentes del viaje Yucatán), published in 1843. At that time, the archaeological site of Chichén Itzá was located on an estate, also called Chichén Itzá, owned by Juan Sosa. Frederick Catherwood illustrated the book with lithographs depicting the pyramid covered in abundant vegetation on all sides. There are some photographs taken in the beginning of the 20th century that also show the pyramid partially covered by said vegetation.\n\nIn 1924, the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, D.C. requested permission from the Mexican government to carry out explorations and restoration efforts in and around the area of Chichen Itza. In 1927, with the assistance of Mexican archaeologists, they started the task. In April 1931, looking to confirm the hypothesis that the structure of the pyramid of Kukulkan was built on top of a much older pyramid, the work of excavation and exploration began in spite of generalized beliefs contrary to that hypothesis. On June 7, 1932, a box with coral, obsidian, and turquoise encrusted objects was found alongside human remains, which are exhibited in the National Anthropology Museum in Mexico City.\n\nEl Castillo is located above a cavity filled with water, labeled a sinkhole or cenote. Recent archaeological investigations suggest that an earlier construction phase is located closer to the south-east cenote, rather than being centered. This specific proximity to the cenote suggests that the Maya may have been aware of the cenote’s existence and purposefully constructed there to facilitate their religious beliefs. \n\nAfter extensive work, in April 1935, a Chac Mool statue, with its nails, teeth, and eyes inlaid with mother of pearl was found inside the pyramid. The room where the discovery was made was nicknamed the \"Hall of offerings\" or \"North Chamber\". After more than a year of excavation, in August 1936, a second room was found, only meters away from the first. Inside this room, dubbed the \"Chamber of Sacrifices\", archaeologists found two parallel rows of human bone set into the back wall, as well as a red jaguar statue. Both deposits of human remains were found oriented north-northeast. Researchers concluded that there must be an inner pyramid approximately wide, shaped similarly to the outer pyramid, with nine steps and a height of up to the base of the temple where the Chac Mool and the jaguar were found.\n\nThe discovery of what appears to be a throne (referred to as the \"Red Jaguar\") in the throne room was previously assumed to have been decorated with flint and green stone discs, but recent research has determined the jaguar to be composed of highly symbolic and valued materials for ritualistic significance. The use of x-ray fluorescence (pXRF) was used to determine that the sculpture is painted red with a pigment that includes cinnabar, or mercury sulfide (HgS). Cinnabar was not in accessible proximity to Chichén Itzá, so the transportation of this pigment through long-distance trade placed a high value of this product. Additionally, the color red appears to be significant to Maya symbolism, and it is associated with creating life as well as death and sacrifice. Studies suggest that objects in Maya culture were imbued with vital essence, so the choice of painting the jaguar red may be a reflection of these beliefs, deeming the jaguar as an offering. The high-status associated with the cinnabar pigment and its red tone suggest that the jaguar was linked to ritual importance of closing a temple for renewal. \n\nThe four fangs of the Red Jaguar have been identified as gastropod mollusk shells (\"Lobatus costatus\") using a digital microscope and comparative analysis from malacology experts from the National Institute of Anthropology and History, another valued resource that may have been traded into Chichén Itzá. The green stones were also analyzed and determined to be a form of jadeite. Jadeite was valuable economically and socially, and the acquisition and application of the material is indicative of the access Chichén Itzá had along its trade routes.\n\nArchaeological studies indicate that the Red Jaguar is similar to other depictions of thrones found in murals (Temple of Chacmool), thus whomever was seated on this throne could have been accessing the point of \"axis mundi\", which is essential to the elements and relationship to the cosmological system. The symbolic usage of materials related to the underworld and death also suggest that it acted as an offering for ritually closing the temple.\n\nThe location of the pyramid is aligned at the intersection between four cenotes: the Sacred Cenote, Xtoloc, Kanjuyum, and Holtún. This alignment supports the position of El Castillo as an \"axis mundi\". The western and eastern sides of the temple are angled to the zenith sunset and nadir sunrise, which may correspond with other calendar events such as start of the traditional planting and harvesting seasons. However, the approximate correspondence with the Sun's positions on its zenith and nadir passages is likely coincidental, because very few Mesoamerican orientations match these events and even for such cases a different explanation is much more likely. Since the sunrise and sunset dates recorded by solar orientations, which prevail in Mesoamerican architecture, tend to be separated by multiples of 13 and 20 days (i.e. of basic periods of the calendrical system), and given their clustering in certain seasons of the year, it has been argued that the orientations allowed the use of observational calendars intended to facilitate a proper scheduling of agricultural and related ritual activities. In agreement with this pattern, detected both in the Maya Lowlands and elsewhere in Mesoamerica, the north (and main) face of El Castillo at Chichén Itzá has an azimuth of 111.72°, corresponding to sunsets on May 20 and July 24, separated by 65 and 300 days (multiples of 13 and 20). Significantly, the same dates are recorded by El Castillo at Tulum.\n\nIn recent years, the National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH), which manages the archaeological site of Chichen Itza, has been closing monuments to public. While visitors can walk around them, they can no longer climb them or go inside their chambers. Climbing El Castillo was stopped in 2006, after a woman fell to her death. At the same time INAH closed the public access to the interior throne room.\n\nToday \"El Castillo\" is one of the most recognized and widely visited pre-Columbian structures in present-day Mexico.\n\nAdditionally, researchers have discovered an enormous cenote (also known as a sinkhole) beneath the 1,000-year-old temple of Kulkulkan. The forming sinkhole beneath the temple is around and up to deep. The water filling the cavern is thought to run from north to south.\n\nResearchers also found a layer of limestone about thick at the top of the cenote, on which the pyramid is sitting.\n\nRecent archaeological investigations have utilized Electrical Resistivity Tomography (ERT) to examine the construction sequence of El Castillo. To preserve the site from potential damage, electrodes were placed non-traditionally as flat-based detectors around the quadrangle of the pyramid bodies of the pyramid. After each pyramidal body was tested, the data revealed two previous construction phases within El Castillo with a possible temple at the top of the second substructure. Determining the dates of when these constructions happened will provide time periods of when Chichen Itza may have been significantly occupied. \n\n\nGray, Richard. \"Sacred Sinkhole Discovered 1,000-year-old-Mayan-Temple-Eventually-Destroy-Pyramid.\" Science & tech August 17, 2015. Dailymail. Web. August 17, 2015.\n\nJustice, Adam. \"Scientists discover sacred sinkhole cave under Chichen\nItza pyramid.\" Science (2015). Ibtimes. Web. August 14, 2015.\n\nJuárez-Rodríguez, O., Argote-Espino D., Santos-Ramírez, M., & López-García, P. (2017). Portable XRF analysis for the identification of raw materials of the Red Jaguar sculpture in Chichén Itzá, Mexico. Quaternary International, Quaternary International.\n\nTejero-Andrade, A., Argote-Espino, D., Cifuentes-Nava, G., Hernández-Quintero, E., Chávez, R.E., & García-Serrano, A. (2018). ‘Illuminating’ the interior of Kukulkan's Pyramid, Chichén Itzá, Mexico, by means of a non-conventional ERT geophysical survey. Journal of Archaeological Science, 90, 1-11.\n\nWren, L., Kristan-Graham, C., Nygard, T., & Spencer, K. R. (2018). Landscapes of the Itza : Archaeology and art history at Chichen Itza and neighboring sites. Gainesville: University Press of Florida.\n"}
{"id": "29473976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473976", "title": "El Chanal", "text": "El Chanal\n\nEl Chanal is an archaeological site located at El Chanal town, north of the Colima City, Mexico. Based on its extension, over , it is probable that it was the largest settlement of the Colima state; it developed on both banks of the “Río Verde” or Río Colima. This archeological zone is maintained by the people of El Chanal. The area may have been inhabited by native groups around 1300 BC, achieving its maximum splendor between 1100 and 1400 CE. There is a Nahuatl connection shown by archaeological materials representing deities such as Tláloc and Ehécatl.\n\nArchitectonically, the Chanal used the double temple concept, palaces with portals, ceremonial spaces with Mesoamerican ballgame, sidewalk-altar and altar-platform. Ceramics found indicates the massive use of braziers and “sahumerios” (used to burn Copal resin), associated with ceremonial rituals.\n\nSome polychromatic images recreate divine attributes, observed in stone reliefs which have made this site somewhat famous.\n\nObviously there are many unknowns about the solemnity and majesty that surround the ceremonial spaces. But what we do know is that the whole town is and archeological zone that more treasures might found there. About the daily life in neighborhoods and community spaces, and all events that built this great city. A scientific investigation and formal exploration of this important site is indeed needed.\n\nThe name of the site is related to imaginary beings known as \"chanos\" that inhabited water streams. From the many Tlaloc (rain god) representations in the region, it is likely that the El Chanal, was a remembrance of the myths probably associated with Tlaloc worship.\n\nThere is a version that relates El Chanal with “Place inhabited by water custodians”.\n\nIn the Mexican State of Chiapas, is a municipality with the same name, according to the municipalities encyclopedia of Mexico, the “Chanal” name means \"wise man that teaches\".\n\nThe ethnic background of the site inhabitants has yet to be determined; ceramic materials found are not easily associated with the Colima ceramic tradition.\n\nIt is considered that site had artisan groups that knew metallurgical techniques. The presence of metal associated with plumbate vessels, used obsidian, manufactured clay sculptures with figures of “Xantiles” and Xipe Totec seem an indication that El Chanal was inhabited by a group, somehow related with Tula.\n\nUnfortunately, the Colima prehispanic ceramic was subject of theft and illegal trade, some pieces are in museums abroad.\n\nThe site has ceremonial spaces, plazas, central altars, and ballgame courts. In 1945 the site was explored by archaeologist Vladimiro Rosado Ojeda, who discovered a pyramid with remains of a stairway and bas-relief engraved steps. The motifs had 36 tablets (Nine per step) that displayed Gods images such as Tlaloc and Ehécatl. Among the structures are the Ossuary, the Pyramid and the Great Platform\n\nThe north-south slope that characterizes the Colima valley was advantageously used by the Chanal constructors; the town was arranged following its contour.\n\nThe pyramidal structures were built using rounded stone from nearby rivers beds. Some of the stones have petroglyphs with animal figures, plants and possible deities.\n\nEl Chanal has six plazas or important ceremonial centers:\n\nInclude two altars, one of rectangular shape, very deteriorated and other is circular, where several burials were found.\n\nLocated south of the “Plaza del Tiempo”, separated by a corridor, measures 38 by 13.5 meters.\n\nThe presence of a Mesoamerican ballgame court in the south of the archaeological site as part of ceremonial spaces is evidence of the strong religious life of the site. The cosmic sense of the town allowed battles by deities to culminate at the court, that fought day after day and allowed the reign of day and night and, hence the construction of the “Time Plaza”, include in the northeast the “Day and Night” Plaza and the “Water Plaza” at the northwest. The game deity was Xolotl that accompanied the sun in its passage through the underworld and announced its success over darkness by means of Venus, the morning star. The game rules, played by men, featured, a fundamental character for the world future. It is very probable that human sacrifice contemplated the magic that allowed supporting the fight of the light against the darkness.\n\n“Day and Night Plaza” Represents a large open space 60 by 80 meters, delimited to the south by a retaining wall; to the west is structure 2 and to the east is structure1.\n\nThe acute El Chanal settler’s religiosity is evident in the magnificent ritual and ceremonial spaces. There are two essential elements: The temples, represented by these native groups of western Mexico, are the home of gods on earth; and the plazas, as congregation spaces for the faithful masses. Some temples had public functions and were accessed by ample entrances. Others, however, had restricted entrances to which only the religious and civil authorities could enter. A way to describe and learn what their use was is by observing the type of materials used associated with the temples. In relation to the ample platform, it had on top two wooden rooms with roofs made of perishable materials, it is possible they used “sahumerios” and small incense dispensers. It is therefore probable, that the place was visited with the purpose of burning incense such as Copal, and render individual and simple tributes to the Gods.\n\nThe “Time Plaza” contains the most impressive site buildings: structures 1 and 3.\n\nComposed by two bodies in the west side and three in the east.\n\nThe “Water Plaza” is made up of a series of low platforms with inner patios, corridors and open plazas.\n\nThe “High Patio” corresponds to the residential housing area of the site.\n\nThe round “Altar Plaza” visually dominates the plazas of Altars and Time.\n\nThe El Chanal archaeological site is located at the present day town of El Chanal, north of the City of Colima via a dirt road. Visits are Tuesday through Sunday from 9:00 to 17:00 hrs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179446", "title": "Ewloe Castle", "text": "Ewloe Castle\n\nEwloe Castle () is a native Welsh castle built by the Kingdom of Gwynedd near the town of Ewloe in Flintshire, Wales. The castle, which was one of the last fortifications to be built by the native Princes of Wales, was abandoned at the beginning of the invasion of Wales by Edward I in 1277. Its construction, using locally quarried sandstone, appears to have continued piecemeal over many years and may have not been completed. On taking the castle, the English Crown gave it little military value and allowed it to fall into ruin.\n\nEwloe was sited on high ground within Tegeingl, a cantref in the lands of North East Wales (Welsh \"Perfeddwlad\"). Standing near the Chester road, it maintained a strategic position near the Wales–England border. The castle is located on a steeply-sloped promontory within a forested valley. It overlooks the junction of two streams with higher ground to the south. \n\nEwloe Castle combines features from both motte-and-bailey and earlier enclosure castles. An asymmetrical curtain wall – with parapets – encloses two courtyards. A rock-cut neck ditch defends the southern side of the castle. In the upper triangular inner ward is a D-shaped tower known as the \"Welsh keep\". This stands on a stone outcrop that forms the motte; it has a stone revetment around its base (a basic Chemise). The lower outer ward is enclosed by two separate sections of wall that meet at a circular fortified tower, which stands upon a rocky knoll. As the curtain walls are not joined together, ladders would have had to be used to reach their parapets.\n\nNo gateways connect the inner ward to the outer courtyard. Access into Ewloe Castle was entirely via wooden ramps. The outer ward had several wooden buildings. An external defensive rampart occupies the higher ground to the south of the castle above the neck ditch.\n\nWithin the inner ward is a D-shaped (or horseshoe-shaped) tower known as the \"Welsh Keep\". Although a flight of stairs lead up to a first floor gateway – a similarity shared with contemporary military architecture, the shape of the tower does not conform with keeps of the later Plantagenet period. D-shaped towers usually projected out from a wall or gatehouse but at Ewloe the castle builders placed the tower/keep on a motte in the upper ward surrounded by its own curtain wall. This feature has precedence in Welsh military architecture. Llywelyn the Great built a similar D-shaped tower at Castell y Bere at Llanfihangel-y-pennant in Gwynedd in the 1220s.\n\nThe tower's outer walls – which are at their base – rose to about . They were higher than the upper storey to protect its pitched roof from projectiles. A parapet ran around the top of the tower. Spaces in the stonework show where storage slots were placed in the upper roof spaces. The tower had a single first floor hall that stood above a lower ground floor chamber. Defensive arrowslits were placed on the curved sides of the tower. The flat side, which overlooks the outer ward, has a Romanesque window.\n\nEwloe Castle, which was built around 1257, is a relic of a brief triumph that the Welsh prince Llywelyn ap Gruffudd had over the English Crown and the Anglo-Norman Marcher Lords in the mid 13th century. Until then, this part of north east Wales had been the starting point for repeated Norman invasions of Gwynedd for more than 150 years.\n\nBut beginning in the early 1230s, the Princes of Gwynedd had had started to gain the upper hand against the Anglo-Normans and Plantagenets who had taken territory in North Wales. Eventually by the late 1250s, the Welsh had reached Ewloe retaking lands up to the England–Wales border. A fortification had existed on or near the site since the Battle of Ewloe () in 1157, when the Welsh successfully ambushed an English force under the command of Henry II (as they marched to Twthill at Rhuddlan). The English king only narrowly avoiding being killed himself having been rescued by Roger, Earl of Hertford.\n\nIn 1257 Llywelyn ap Gruffudd had work begin on the castle. The fortification incorporated previous work undertaken by both Owain Gwynedd and Llywelyn the Great. It was built from locally quarried sandstone. There are no records to say when construction ended, however, its design – such as the D-shaped Welsh Keep – suggest it was conceived and built entirely by a Welsh workforce. Debate varies on whether Ewloe was intended to be an actual defensive fortification or a hunting lodge for Welsh nobility.\n\nIn July 1277, Edward I began the first Welsh War by marching his forces out of the castle at Chester and up the west coast of the Dee Estuary. After an advanced base was established at Flint (a day's travel from Chester), building work immediately began on Flint Castle. Ewloe Castle is not mentioned in chronicles of the 1277 invasion suggesting the Welsh had abandoned the area; retreating to stronger defensive positions along the Clwydian Hills further to the west.\n\nAs Edward I's castles at Flint and Rhuddlan could be provisioned by sea, Ewloe was never used by the English military.\n\nThe only contemporary reference to the Ewloe Castle is in the Chester \"Plea Rolls\" that mentions a report sent to Edward II in 1311. The Justice of Chester wrote to the King regarding the history of the manor at Ewloe from the middle of the 12th century. The rolls record that by 1257 Llywelyn ap Gruffudd had regained Ewloe from the English and built a castle in the wood; noting in 1311 that much of the castle was still standing.\n\nBy the late medieval period, the site was in ruins. Much of the castle's dressed stone work from its curtain walls and Keep were removed for construction material around Mold and Connah's Quay.\n\nEwloe Castle, which is a Grade I listed building, is incorporated within Wepre Park; a country park managed by Flintshire County Council. The castle is under the care of Cadw – the national heritage agency for Wales. It can be reached by footpaths through Wepre Woods. Public access is free.\n\nIn November 2009, the castle was among five lots of farmland and woodland put up for sale by Flintshire County Council. The local authority stressed Ewloe and the site it occupies were protected from any development. It was sold at auction to an anonymous farmer along with of surrounding land for £122,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183603", "title": "Francis Younghusband", "text": "Francis Younghusband\n\nLieutenant Colonel Sir Francis Edward Younghusband, (31 May 1863 – 31 July 1942) was a British Army officer, explorer, and spiritual writer. He is remembered for his travels in the Far East and Central Asia; especially the 1904 British expedition to Tibet, led by him, and for his writings on Asia and foreign policy. Younghusband held positions including British commissioner to Tibet and President of the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nFrancis Younghusband was born in 1863 at Murree, British India (now Pakistan), to a British military family, being the brother of Major-General George Younghusband and the second son of Major-General John W. Younghusband and his wife Clara Jane Shaw. Clara's brother, Robert Shaw, was a noted explorer of Central Asia. His uncle Lieutenant-General Charles Younghusband CB FRS, was a British Army officer and meteorologist.\n\nAs an infant, Francis was taken to live in England by his mother. When Clara returned to India in 1867 she left her son in the care of two austere and strictly religious aunts. In 1870 his mother and father returned to England and reunited the family. In 1876 at age thirteen, Francis entered Clifton College, Bristol. In 1881 he entered the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, and was commissioned as a subaltern in the 1st King's Dragoon Guards in 1882.\n\nHaving read General MacGregor's book \"Defence of India\" he could have justifiably called himself an expert on the \"Great Game\" of espionage that was unfolding on the Steppes of Asia. In 1886-1887, on leave from his regiment, Younghusband made an expedition across Asia though still a young officer. Sailing to China his party set out with Colonel Mark Bell's permission to cross 1200 miles of desert with the ostensible authority to survey the geography; but in reality the purposes were to ascertain the strength of the Russian physical threats to the Raj. Departing Peking with a senior colleague, Henry E. M. James (on leave from his Indian Civil Service position) and a young British consular officer from Newchwang, Harry English Fulford, on April 4, 1887, Lieut Younghusband explored Manchuria, visiting the frontier areas of Chinese settlement in the region of the Changbai Mountains.\n\nOn arrival in India he was granted three months leave by the C-in-C Field Marshal Lord Roberts; the scientific results of this travel would prove vital information to the RGS. Younghusband had already carried out numerous scientific observation (in particular, showing that the Changbai Mountains's highest peak, Baekdu Mountain is only around 8,000 feet tall, even though the British maps the travelers had showed [nonexistent] snow-capped peaks 10,000-12,000 ft tall in the area), while Fulford was providing the travelers with a language and cultural expertise. Younghusband crossed the most inhospitable terrain in the world to the Himalayas before being ordered to make his way home. Parting with his British companions, Younghusband then crossed the Taklamakan Desert to the Chinese Turkestan, and pioneered a route from Kashgar to India through the uncharted Mustagh Pass. He reported to the Viceroy, Lord Dufferin his crossing through the Karakoram Range, the Hindu Kush, Pamirs where the range converged with the Himalayas; the nexus of three great empires. In the 1880s the region of the Upper Oxus was still largely unmapped. For this achievement, aged still only 24 he was elected the youngest member of the Royal Geographical Society and received the society's 1890 Patron's Gold Medal.\nIn 1889, he made captain, and was dispatched with a small escort of Gurkha soldiers to investigate an uncharted region north of Ladakh, where raiders from Hunza had disrupted trade between Yarkand and India the previous year. Whilst encamped in the valley of the Yarkand River, Younghusband received a messenger at his camp, inviting him to dinner with Captain Bronislav Grombchevsky, his Russian counterpart in \"The Great Game\". Younghusband accepted the invitation to Grombchevsky's camp, and after dinner the two rivals talked into the night, sharing brandy and vodka, and discussing the possibility of a Russian invasion of British India. Grombchevsky impressed Younghusband with the horsemanship skills of his Cossack escort, and Younghusband impressed Grombchevsky with the rifle drill of his Gurkhas. After their meeting in this remote frontier region, Grombchevsky resumed his expedition in the direction of Tibet and Younghusband continued his exploration of the Karakoram.\n\nYounghusband received a telegram from Simla, to attend the Intelligence Department (ID) to be interviewed by Foreign Secretary, Sir Mortimer Durand transferred to the Indian Political Service. He served as a political officer on secondment from the British Army. He refused a request to visit Lhasa as an interpreter, disguised as a Yarkandi trader, a cover not guaranteed to fool the Russians, after Scots merchant, Andrew Dalgleish had been brutally hacked to death. Younghusband was accompanied by a Gurkha escort, celebrated for their ferocity in combat. The Forward policy was circumscribed by a legal offer to all travellers of a peaceable security crossing borders. Departure from Leh on 8 August 1889 on the caravan route took them up the mountain pass of Shimshal towards Hunza; his aim being to restore the tea trade to Xinjiang and prevent any further raids into Kashmir. Colonel Durand from Gilgit joined him. Younghusband probed the villages to gauge the reception: calculating it was a den of thieves, they ascended the steep ravine. The Hunza was barred to them, a trap was sprung; the parley terms took him inside to negotiate. The nervous reception over, they were all relieved to find safety; Younghusband wanted to know why and who was way-laying innocent civilian traders? The ruler, Safdar Ali extended a letter of welcome to his Kashmiri kingdom; the British investigated from whence came the Russian infiltrators under Agent Gromchevsky. Further south at Ladakh, he kept close watch on their movements. Reluctantly, Younghusband dined with the Cossack leaders who divulged the secrets of their common rivalry. Gromchevsky explained that the Raj had invited enmity for meddling in the Black Sea ports. The Russian displayed little grasp of strategy, but basic raw courage; he betrayed the confidence of Abdul Rahman as no friend to the British. Younghusband tentatively concluded that their possessions at Bokhara and Samarkand were vulnerable. Having drunk large quantities of vodka and brandy, the Cossacks presented arms in cordial salute and they parted in peace. Woefully unprepared for winter, the British garrison at Ladakh refused them entry.\n\nYounghusband finally arrived at Gulmit to a 13-gun salute. In khaki, the envoy greeted Safdar Ali at the marquee on the Karakoram Highway, the men of Hunza kneeling at their ruler's feet. This was colonial diplomacy, based on protocol and etiquette, but Younghusband had not come for merely trivial discussions. Reinforced by Durand's troops, Younghusband's arguments were to prevent the criminal looting, murder and highway robbery. Impervious to reason though he was, Younghusband was not prepared to allow Safdar Ali to laugh at the Raj. A demonstration of firepower \"caused quite a sensation\" he wrote in his diaries. The British major was disdainful, but content when he left on November 23, to return to India, which he reached by Christmas.\n\nIn 1890, Younghusband was sent on a mission to Chinese Turkestan, accompanied by George Macartney as interpreter. He spent the winter in Kashgar, where he left Macartney as British consul. Younghusband wanted to investigate the Pamir Gap, a possible Russian entry route to India. But he had had to ensure the Chinese at Kashgar were sorted out to prevent a tripartite attempt by the Hunza clans. It was for this reason he recruited a Mandarin-interpreter, junior officer, George Macartney to accompany his missions into the frozen mountains. They wintered in Kashgar, as a listening post: meeting in conference with the Russian Nikolai Petrovsky, who had always resisted trade with Xinjiang (Sinkiang). The Russian agent was well-informed about British India, but proved unscrupulous. Believing he had succeeded, Younghusband did not reckon on Petrovsky's deal with the \"Taotai,\" the Chinese governor of Hunza.\n\nIn July 1891, they were still in the Pamirs when news reached them the Russians intended to send troops \"to note and report with the Chinese and Afghans\". At Bozai Gumbaz in the Little Pamir on 12 August he encountered Cossack soldiers, who forced him to leave the area. This was one of the incidents which provoked the Hunza-Nagar Campaign. The troop of 20 or so soldiers planted a flag on what they anticipated was unclaimed territory, 150 miles south of the Russian border. But to the British the area was Afghan territory. Colonel , decorated with the Order of St George, approached his camp to announce that the area now belonged to the Tsar. Younghusband learnt that they had raided the Chitral territory; furthermore they had penetrated the Darkot Pass into the Yasin Valley. They were joined by eager intelligence officer Lieutenant Davison; but the British were disabused by Ivanov of British sovereignty: Younghusband remained polite, maintained protocol but hospitable to the big Russian bear hug.\n\nDuring his service in Kashmir, he wrote a book called Kashmir at the request of Edward Molyneux. Younghusband's descriptions went hand in glove with Molyneux's paintings of the valley. In the book, Younghusband declared his immense admiration of the natural beauty of Kashmir and its history. The Great Game, between Britain and Russia, continued beyond the start of the 20th century until officially ended by the 1907 Anglo-Russian Treaty. Younghusband, among other explorers such as Sven Hedin, Nikolay Przhevalsky, Shoqan Walikhanov and Sir Auriel Stein, had participated in earnest. Rumours of Russian expansion into the Hindu Kush with a Russian presence in Tibet prompted the new Viceroy of India Lord Curzon to appoint Younghusband, by then a major, British commissioner to Tibet from 1902-1904.\n\nIn 1903, Curzon appointed Younghusband head of the Tibet Frontier Commission with John Claude White, political officer of Sikkim, and E. C. Wilton as deputy commissioners. He subsequently led the 1903-04 British expedition to Tibet, whose putative aim was to settle disputes over the Sikkim-Tibet border; the expedition by exceeding instructions from London, controversially became a \"de facto\" invasion of Tibet.\n\nAbout inside Tibet, on the way to Gyantse, thence to the capital of Lhasa, a confrontation outside the hamlet of Guru led to a victory by the expedition over 600-700 Tibetan militia, largely monks. Some estimates of Tibetan casualties are far higher; inciting other conflicts, Younghusband's well-trained troops were armed with rifles and machine guns, confronting disorganized monks wielding hoes, swords, and flintlocks. Some accounts estimated that more than 5,000 Tibetans were killed during the campaign, while the total number of British casualties was about five.\n\nThe British force was supported by King Ugyen Wangchuck of Bhutan, who was knighted in return for his services. The incident, portrayed by Chinese sources as a \"massacre\", embarrassed the British Government, which desired good relations with China for the sake of the coastal Chinese trade. Accordingly, the British repudiated the treaty known as the Treaty of Lhasa that Younghusband's services had obtained.\n\nIn 1891, Younghusband received the Companion of the Order of the Indian Empire, which was upgraded to Knight Commander in 1904; and in 1917, he was awarded the honour of Knight Commander of the Order of the Star of India. He was also awarded the Kaisar-I-Hind Medal (gold) in 1901 and the Gold Medal of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society in 1905.\n\nIn 1906, Younghusband settled in Kashmir as the British representative before returning to Britain, where he was an active member of many clubs and societies. In 1908, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel. During the First World War, his patriotic Fight for Right campaign commissioned the song Jerusalem.\n\nYounghusband was elected President of the Royal Geographical Society in 1919, and two years later became Chairman of the Mount Everest Committee which was set up to coordinate the initial 1921 British Reconnaissance Expedition to Mount Everest. He actively encouraged the accomplished climber George Mallory to attempt the first ascent of Mount Everest, and they followed the same initial route as the earlier Tibet Mission. Younghusband remained Chairman through the subsequent 1922 and 1924 British Expeditions.\n\nIn 1938 Younghusband encouraged Ernst Schäfer, who was about to lead a German expedition to \"sneak over the border\" when faced with British intransigence towards Schäfer's efforts to reach Tibet.\n\nIn 1897 Younghusband married Helen Augusta Magniac, the daughter of Charles Magniac, MP. Augusta's brother, Vernon, served as Younghusband's private secretary during the expedition to Tibet. The Younghusbands had a son who died in infancy, and a daughter, Eileen Younghusband (1902–1981), who became a prominent social worker.\n\nFrom 1921 to 1937 the couple lived at Westerham, Kent, but Helen did not accompany her husband on his travels. In July 1942 Younghusband suffered a stroke after addressing a meeting of the World Congress of Faiths in Birmingham. He died of cardiac failure on 31 July 1942 at Madeline Lees' home Post Green House, at Lytchett Minster, Dorset. He was buried in the village churchyard.\n\nBiographer Patrick French described Younghusband's religious belief as one who was\nbrought up an Evangelical Christian, read his way into Tolstoyan simplicity, experienced a revelatory vision in the mountains of Tibet, toyed with telepathy in Kashmir, proposed a new faith based on virile racial theory, then transformed it into what Bertrand Russell called 'a religion of atheism.' Ultimately he became a spiritualist and \"premature hippie\" who \"had great faith in the power of cosmic rays, and claimed that there are extraterrestrials with translucent flesh on the planet Altair.\"\n\nDuring his 1904 retreat from Tibet, Younghusband had a mystical experience which suffused him with \"love for the whole world\" and convinced him that \"men at heart are divine.\" This conviction was tinged with regret for the invasion of Tibet, and eventually, in 1936, profound religious convictions invited a founder's address to the World Congress of Faiths (in imitation of the World Parliament of Religions). Younghusband published a number of books with what one might call New Age themes, with titles like \"The Gleam: Being an account of the life of Nija Svabhava, pseud.\" (1923); \"Mother World (in Travail for the Christ that is to be)\" (1924); and \"Life in the Stars: An Exposition of the View that on some Planets of some Stars exist Beings higher than Ourselves, and on one a World-Leader, the Supreme Embodiment of the Eternal Spirit which animates the Whole\" (1927). The last drew the admiration of Lord Baden-Powell, the Boy Scouts founder. Key concepts consisted of the central belief that would come to be known as the Gaia hypothesis, pantheism, and a Christlike \"world leader\" living on the planet \"Altair\" (or \"Stellair\"), exploring the theology of spiritualism, and guidance by means of telepathy.\n\nYounghusband allegedly believed in free love (\"freedom to unite when and how a man and a woman please\"), marriage laws examined as a matter of \"outdated custom.\" One of Younghusband's domestic servants, Gladys Aylward, became a Christian missionary in China.\n\nThe Ingrid Bergman film \"The Inn of the Sixth Happiness\" (1958) is based on Gladys Aylward's life, with Ronald Squire portraying Younghusband.\n\nYounghusband wrote 26 books in all between 1885 and 1942. Subjects ranged from Asian events, exploration, mountaineering, philosophy, spirituality, politics and more.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27626382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27626382", "title": "Gaza journey of MV Rachel Corrie", "text": "Gaza journey of MV Rachel Corrie\n\nThe Cambodian-flagged Irish MV \"Rachel Corrie\" was part of the Gaza Freedom Flotilla that sailed to Gaza to deliver humanitarian aid in 2010. The ship was unable to join the other six ships in the flotilla because of mechanical problems that forced it to undergo repairs in Malta. The other six ships were confronted by a raid on 31 May 2010 during which nine activists were killed by Israeli naval forces.\n\nThe aid-carrying vessel got under way on 31 May 2010, with its crew insisting that they would go to Gaza. The governments of Israel and Ireland reached an agreement to unload the ship's cargo in the southern Israeli port city of Ashdod, but the group sponsoring the ship rejected the proposal. Israeli commandos boarded the ship from speedboats at around noon on 5 June 2010, in international waters about 30 kilometers from Gaza. The Israeli commandos seized control, and the ship and its passengers were diverted towards Israel, away from its original course. After an inspection, Israel delivered the entire cargo to Gaza, including cement, which is usually banned.\n\nOn 3 June, in the aftermath of the Gaza flotilla raid, activists revealed there was another Gaza-bound aid ship, the MV \"Rachel Corrie\": this was expected to arrive in the region early the following week.\n\nThe vessel is a former merchant ship owned and operated by the Free Gaza Movement. It was partially funded by the Perdana Global Peace Organisation, a Malaysian NGO headed by former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir bin Mohamad.\nThe ship is Irish-owned, and had the former Assistant UN Secretary-General Denis Halliday and Nobel Peace Prize winner Mairead Maguire on board. Halliday said that the ship would stop only when Israelis forced the ship to do so.\n\nPassengers aboard the \"Rachel Corrie\" said that the purpose of their journey was to bring both humanitarian aid to the Gazan population and public attention to the Egypt-Israel blockade of the Gaza region; a blockade criticised by United Nations Relief and Works Agency for imposing \"abject poverty\" on 350,000 Gazans. Israel says the blockade of Gaza is needed to prevent the infiltration of weapons and militants into the coastal territory run by Hamas, which they and much of the international community have designated a terrorist organization. Israel has also called the campaign a \"provocation intended to delegitimise Israel\".\n\nThe ship was carrying humanitarian supplies, including 550 tons of cement intended to rebuild schools, homes and other building destroyed in Gaza, as well as 20 tons of paper, 100 tons of high-end medical equipment (including a CT scanner), fabric and thread, and educational supplies. Cement is one of the items which Israel has banned from entering Gaza as it worries that cement can be used to build bunkers, tunnels and rockets, but it has recently allowed some shipments for specific civilian building projects.\n\nThe aid-laden ship was checked for weapons in Ireland by customs officials and a senator from the Irish Green Party. No weapons were found. Irish Prime Minister (Taoiseach) Brian Cowen called on Israel to allow the passage of the \"Rachel Corrie\". Ireland later reached an agreement with Israel and made a proposal to the ship that it divert to Ashdod, where Israel offered to transfer its cargo to the Gaza Strip, under the supervision of passengers and Irish diplomats. The passengers of the ship rejected the proposal. Israel reported its troops had taken control of the ship on 5 June, about 16 nautical miles (30 km) off the coast. An IDF spokeswoman said there \"was full compliance from the crew and passengers on board\".\n\nFormer United Nations Assistant Secretary-General, Denis Halliday, aboard the \"Rachel Corrie\", expressed concern that some of these humanitarian goods would likely be seized if the MV \"Rachel Corrie\" accepted \"an offer of an escort to another port\". The cargo, although it all falls within the remit of humanitarian aid as defined by the United Nations, \"would be confiscated by the Israelis, given that they do not define this as humanitarian goods – in breach of the UN definition of same\".\nPrior to the ship's last leg of its journey, Denis Halliday requested a final inspection of the cargo: \"We are calling on the UN to inspect the cargo and escort us into Gaza, and to send a UN representative to sail on board before they enter the exclusion zone\". Trade unions and government officials had previously inspected the cargo, \"so we are 100 percent confident that there is nothing that is offensive or dangerous\", he told Israel's Channel 2 Television.\n\nThere were eleven passengers on board the ship: Nobel Peace Prize laureate Maireád Corrigan-Maguire, former UN Assistant Secretary-General Denis Halliday, film maker Fiona Thompson, husband and wife Derek and Jenny Graham and six Malaysian citizens.\n\nThe Malaysian members were: Member of the Parliament of Malaysia, for the Parit constituency, Mohd Nizar Zakaria; Perdana Global Peace Organisation representatives, Shamsul Akmar, Matthias Chang and Ahmad Faizal Azumu; TV3 reporter Halim Mohamed and TV3 cameraman Jufri Junid.\n\nThe ship was captained by Eric Harcis, a British citizen from Orkney, Scotland.\n\nThe IDF or the Mossad may have sabotaged three of the ships before the raid. According to the National Post, Israeli deputy defense minister Matan Vilnai hinted that Israel had exhausted covert means of stalling the vessels. He said: \"Everything was considered. I don't want to elaborate beyond that, because the fact is there were not up to 10, or however many ships were [originally] planned.\" A senior IDF officer hinted to the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee that some of the vessels had been tampered with to halt them far from the Gaza or Israeli coast. According to UPI press coverage, the officer alluded to \"grey operations\" against the flotilla and said that no such action had been taken against the Mavi Marmara out of fear that the vessel might be stranded in the middle of the sea, endangering the people on board. Israel was accused of sabotaging activist ships in the past but no evidence has been found to back up these claims.\n\nThree ships – the \"Rachel Corrie\", the \"Challenger I\" and the \"Challenger II\" – suffered damage or malfunction. While the \"Challenger I\" was able to continue, the \"Challenger II\" had to turn back halfway through the journey and \"Rachel Corrie\" docked for repairs in Malta. Greta Berlin of the Free Gaza Movement said that electric wires may have been tampered with.\n\nThe Israeli military sent three warnings to the \"Rachel Corrie\" asking it dock in Ashdod, change course, or face a naval takeover. The ship was shadowed by two Israeli Navy vessels, and its radar was jammed. After trailing the \"Rachel Corrie\" for several hours, Israeli commandos boarded the ship from speedboats at around noon on 5 June 2010, in international waters around off the Gaza Strip, Preliminary reports indicated that there was no resistance. The boarding involved about 20 combat soldiers. All the crew were arrested by these forces\n\nGreta Berlin, a spokeswoman for the Free Gaza group, said the takeover was \"another outrage to add to the nine murdered\" and denied an Israeli statement that troops had been invited aboard. The Gaza-bound vessel was addressed as Linda (an earlier official name) by naval officers during the air and sea operation.\n\nThe protest activists and crew, having waived their right to appeal an order of deportation, left Israel on 6 June 2010, an immigration official said.\n\n\nNorthern Ireland's deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness criticised what he called \"Israeli aggression\" in the take over.\n\nDockworker unions in Sweden persuaded members not to service Israeli ships from 15 June – 22 June, South Africa has refused to handle Israeli ships, and the UK's Unite union has passed a motion to boycott Israeli companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22158239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22158239", "title": "Glospace SGK-70", "text": "Glospace SGK-70\n\nGlospace SGK-70 is the world's first Automotive navigation system that is able to navigate using both GPS and GLONASS signals.\n\nGlospace is a brand of НИИ КП (\"Научно-исследовательский институт космического приборостроения\", the Russian Institute of Space Device Engineering).\n\nIts hardware part is based on 24 channel NAVIOR-24 (СН-4701) chip that handles signals of both systems (12 channels per each system). Its software part is based on ПалмГИСGPS (PalmGISGPS) that runs on Windows CE 5.0.\n\n"}
{"id": "48946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48946", "title": "Graz", "text": "Graz\n\nGraz () is the capital of Styria and the second-largest city in Austria after Vienna. On 1 January 2018, it had a population of 325,021 (of which 289,440 had principal residence status). In 2015, the population of the Graz larger urban zone who had principal residence status stood at 633,168.\n\nGraz has a long tradition as seat of universities: its six universities have almost 60,000 students. Its historic centre is one of the best-preserved city centres in Central Europe.\n\nFor centuries, Graz () was more important to Slovenes, both politically and culturally, than the capital of Slovenia, Ljubljana, and it remains influential to this day.\n\nIn 1999, Graz was added to the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites, and the site was extended in 2010 with Eggenberg Palace (German: Schloss Eggenberg). Graz was the sole Cultural Capital of Europe of 2003 and became a City of Culinary Delights in 2008.\n\nThe name of the city, Graz, formerly spelled Gratz, most likely stems from the Slavic \"gradec\", \"small castle\". Some archaeological finds point to the erection of a small castle by Alpine Slavic people, which over time became a heavily defended fortification. In literary Slovene, \"gradec\" still means \"small castle\", forming a hypocoristic derivative of Proto-West-South Slavic *gradьcъ, whichs descends via liquid metathesis from Common Slavic *gardьcъ and via the Slavic third palatalisation from Proto-Slavic *gardiku, originally denoting \"small town, settlement\". The name thus follows the common South Slavic pattern for naming settlements as \"grad\". The German name 'Graz' first appears in records in 1128.\n\nGraz is situated on the Mur river in southeast Austria. It is about southwest of Vienna. The nearest larger urban centre is Maribor in Slovenia which is about away. Graz is the capital and largest city in Styria, a green and heavily forested area.\n\nThese towns and villages border Graz:\n\nGraz is divided into 17 districts:\n\nThe oldest settlement on the ground of the modern city of Graz dates back to the Copper Age. However, no historical continuity exists of a settlement before the Middle Ages.\n\nDuring the 12th century, dukes under Babenberg rule made the town into an important commercial center. Later, Graz came under the rule of the Habsburgs and, in 1281, gained special privileges from King Rudolph I.\n\nIn the 14th century, Graz became the city of residence of the Inner Austrian line of the Habsburgs. The royalty lived in the Schlossberg castle and from there ruled Styria, Carinthia, most of today's Slovenia, and parts of Italy (Carniola, Gorizia and Gradisca, Trieste).\n\nIn the 16th century, the city's design and planning were primarily controlled by Italian Renaissance architects and artists. One of the most famous buildings built in this style is the Landhaus, designed by Domenico dell'Allio, and used by the local rulers as a governmental headquarters.\n\nKarl-Franzens-Universität, also called the University of Graz, is the city's oldest university, founded in 1585 by Archduke Karl II. For most of its existence, it was controlled by the Catholic church, and was closed in 1782 by Joseph II in an attempt to gain state control over educational institutions. Joseph II transformed it into a lyceum where civil servants and medical personnel were trained. In 1827 it was re-instituted as a university by Emperor Franz I, thus gaining the name 'Karl-Franzens Universität,' meaning 'Charles-Francis University.' Over 30,000 students currently study at this university.\n\nThe astronomer Johannes Kepler lived in Graz for a short period. There, he worked as a math teacher and was a professor of mathematics at the University of Graz, but still found time to study astronomy. He left Graz to go to Prague when Lutherans were banned from the city.\n\nLudwig Boltzmann was Professor for Mathematical Physics from 1869 to 1890. During that time, Nikola Tesla studied electrical engineering at the Polytechnic in 1875. Nobel Laureate Otto Loewi taught at the University of Graz from 1909 until 1938. Ivo Andric, the 1961 Nobel Prize for Literature Laureate obtained his doctorate at the University of Graz. Erwin Schrödinger was briefly chancellor of the University of Graz in 1936.\n\nGraz lies in Styria, or \"Steiermark\" in German. \"Mark\" is an old German word indicating a large area of land used as a defensive border, in which the peasantry is taught how to organize and fight in the case of an invasion. With a strategic location at the head of the open and fertile Mur valley, Graz was often assaulted (unsuccessfully), e.g. by the Hungarians under Matthias Corvinus in 1481, and by the Ottoman Turks in 1529 and 1532. Apart from the Riegersburg Castle, the Schlossberg was the only fortification in the region that never fell to the Ottoman Turks. Graz is home to the region's provincial armory, which is the world's largest historical collection of late medieval and Renaissance weaponry. It has been preserved since 1551, and displays over 30,000 items.\n\nFrom the earlier part of the 15th century, Graz was the residence of the younger branch of the Habsburgs, which succeeded to the imperial throne in 1619 in the person of Emperor Ferdinand II, who moved the capital to Vienna. New fortifications were built on the Schlossberg at the end of the 16th century. Napoleon's army occupied Graz in 1797. In 1809, the city withstood another assault by the French army. During this attack, the commanding officer in the fortress was ordered to defend it with about 900 men against Napoleon's army of about 3,000. He successfully defended the Schlossberg against eight attacks, but they were forced to give up after the Grande Armée occupied Vienna and the Emperor ordered to surrender. Following the defeat of Austria by Napoleonic forces at the Battle of Wagram in 1809, the fortifications were demolished using explosives, as stipulated in the Peace of Schönbrunn of the same year. The belltower and the civic clock tower, often used as the symbol of Graz, were spared after the people of Graz paid a ransom for their preservation.\n\nArchduke Karl II of Inner Austria had 20,000 Protestant books burned in the square of what is now a mental hospital, and succeeded in returning Styria to the authority of the Holy See. Archduke Franz Ferdinand was born in Graz, in what is now the Stadtmuseum (city museum).\n\nThe more recent population figures do not give the whole picture as only people with principal residence status are counted and people with secondary residence status are not. Most of the people with secondary residence status in Graz are students. At the end of 2016 there were 33,473 people with secondary residence status in Graz.\n\nOceanic climate is the type found in the city, but due to the 0 ° C isotherm, the same occurs in a humid continental climate with based in Köppen system (Cfb/Dfb borderline). Wladimir Köppen himself was in town and conducted studies to see how the climate of the past influenced the Continental Drift theory. Due to its position southeast of the Alps, Graz is shielded from the prevailing westerly winds that bring weather fronts in from the North Atlantic to northwestern and central Europe. The weather in Graz is thus influenced by the Mediterranean, and it has more hours of sunshine per year than Vienna or Salzburg and also less wind or rain. Graz lies in a basin that is only open to the south, causing the climate to be warmer than would be expected at that latitude. Plants are found in Graz that normally grow much further south.\n\n\nPolitically, culturally, scientifically and religiously, Graz was an important centre for all Slovenes, especially from the establishment of the University of Graz in 1586 until the establishment of University of Ljubljana in 1919. In 1574, the was published in Graz, and in 1592, Hieronymus Megiser published in Graz the book \"Dictionarium quatuor linguarum\", the first multilingual dictionary of Slovene.\n\nThe Styrian Slovenes did not consider Graz a German city, but their own, a place to study while living at their relatives' homes and to fulfill one's career ambitions. The student associations in Graz were a crucible of the Slovene identity and the Slovene students in Graz were more nationally aware than some others. This led to fierce anti-Slovene efforts of German nationalists in Graz before and during World War II.\n\nMany Slovenian Styrians study there. Slovenes are among the professors at the Institute for Jazz in Graz. Numerous Slovenes have found employment there, while being formerly unemployed in Slovenia. For the Slovene culture, Graz remains permanently important due to its university and the Universalmuseum Joanneum archives containing numerous documents from the Slovenian Styria.\n\nA symposium on the relation of Graz and the Slovenes was held in Graz in 2010, at the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the first and oldest chair of Slovene. It was established at the Lyzeum of Graz in July 1811 on the initiative of . A collection of lectures on the topic was published. The Slovenian Post commemorated the anniversary with a stamp.\n\nFor Graz's stint as Cultural Capital of Europe a few new public buildings were erected in the city. The most famous is the Kunsthaus (house of modern art) designed by Peter Cook and Colin Fournier, a museum constructed next to the river Mur, and the Murinsel (island in the Mur), an island made of steel, situated in the river. It was designed by the American architect Vito Acconci and contains a café, an open-air theatre and a playground.\n\nThe historic centre was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1999 due to the harmonious co-existence of typical buildings from different epochs and in different architectural styles. Situated in a cultural borderland between Central Europe, Italy and the Balkan States, Graz absorbed various influences from the neighbouring regions and thus received its exceptional townscape. Today the old town consists of over 1000 buildings, their age ranging from Gothic to contemporary.\n\nThe most important sights in the historic centre are:\n\n\n\nDuring 2003 Graz held the title of \"European Capital of Culture\" and was one of the UNESCO \"Cities of Design\" in 2011.\n\nThe most important museums in Graz are:\n\nThe Old Town and the adjacent districts are characterized by the historic residential buildings and churches found there. In the outer districts buildings are predominantly of the architectural styles from the second half of the 20th century.\n\nIn 1965 the \"Grazer Schule\" (School of Graz) was founded. Several buildings around the universities are of this style, for example the green houses by Volker Giencke and the \"RESOWI\" center by Günther Domenig.\n\nBefore Graz became the European Capital of Culture in 2003, several new projects were realized, such as the \"Stadthalle\", the \"Kindermuseum\" (museum for children), the \"Helmut-List-Halle\", the \"Kunsthaus\" and the \"Murinsel\".\n\n\nBuildings in Graz which are at least 50m tall: \n\nSK Sturm Graz is the main football club of the city, with three Austrian championships and five runner-up seasons. The Grazer AK also won an Austrian championship, but went into administration in 2007 and was excluded from the professional league system.\n\nIn ice hockey, the ATSE Graz was the Austrian Hockey League champion in 1975 and 1978. The EC Graz was runner-up in 1991-92, 1992–93 and 1993-94. The Graz 99ers plays in first division since 2000.\n\nUBSC Raiffeisen Graz plays in the Austrian Basketball League.\n\nThe Graz Giants play in the Austrian Football League (American Football).\n\nThe city were bid the 2002 Winter Olympics in 1995, but lost election to Salt Lake City. Nowadays there is plan to bid 2026 Winter Olympics with some venues in Bavaria, Germany to cut costs with using existing venues around national borders. It's still facing referendum, meaning usually the end for many former olympic bids in Europe and North America since 1970 -century.\n\nGraz hosts the annual festival of classical music Styriarte, founded in 1985 to tie conductor Nikolaus Harnoncourt closer to his hometown. Events have been held at different venues in Graz and in the surrounding region.\n\nAn extensive public transport network makes Graz an easy city to navigate without a car. The city has a comprehensive bus network, complementing the Graz tram network consisting of eight lines. Four lines pass through the underground tram stop at the central railway station (Hauptbahnhof) and on to the city centre before branching out. Furthermore, there are seven night-time bus routes, although these run only at weekends and on evenings preceding public holidays.\n\nThe Schlossbergbahn, a funicular railway, and the Schlossberg lift, a vertical lift, link the city centre to the Schlossberg.\n\nFrom the central railway station (Hauptbahnhof), regional trains link to most of Styria. Direct trains run to most major cities nearby including Vienna, Salzburg, Innsbruck, Maribor and Ljubljana in Slovenia, Zagreb in Croatia, Budapest in Hungary, Prague and Brno in the Czech Republic, Zürich in Switzerland, as well as Munich, Stuttgart, Heidelberg, and Frankfurt in Germany. Trains for Vienna leave every hour. In recent years many railway stations within the city limits and in the suburbs have been rebuilt or modernised and are now part of the \"S-Bahn Graz\", a commuter train service connecting the city with its suburban area and towns nearby.\n\nGraz airport is located about south of the city centre and is accessible by bus, railway, and car. Direct destinations include Amsterdam, Berlin, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart, Istanbul, Vienna and Zurich.\n\nIn Graz there are seven hospitals, several private hospitals and sanatoriums, as well as 44 pharmacies.\n\nThe \"University Hospital Graz\" (LKH-Universitäts-Klinikum Graz) is in the east of Graz and has 1,556 beds and 7,190 employees. The \"Hospital Graz South-West\" (LKH Graz Süd-West) has two sites. The western site is located in Eggenberg and has 280 beds and about 500 employees, the southern site is located in Straßgang with 880 beds and 1,100 employees. The \"AUVA Accident Hospital\" (Unfallkrankenhaus der AUVA) is in Eggenberg and has 180 beds and a total of 444 employees.\n\nFurthermore, there is the geriatric hospital Albert-Schweitzer-Klinik in the west of the city with 304 beds, the Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Brüder I in Lend with 225 beds, the Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Brüder II in Eggenberg with 260 beds and the Krankenhaus der Elisabethinen in Gries with 182 beds.\n\nThere are several private clinics as well: the Privatklinik Kastanienhof, the Privatklinik Leech, the Privatklinik der Kreuzschwestern, the Sanatorium St. Leonhard, the Sanatorium Hansa and the Privatklinik Graz-Ragnitz.\n\nEMS in Graz is provided solely by the Austrian Red Cross. Perpetually two emergency doctor's cars (\"NEF – Notarzteinsatzfahrzeug\"), two NAWs (\"Notarztwagen\" – ambulances staffed with a doctor in addition to regular personnel) and about 30 RTWs (\"Rettungswagen\" – regular ambulances) are on standby. Furthermore, several non-emergency ambulances (\"KTW – Krankentransportwagen\") and a Mobile Intensive Care Unit (MICU) are operated by the Red Cross in order to organise transportation of non-emergency patients to and between hospitals. In addition to the Red Cross the Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund Österreichs (Labor-Samaritan-Alliance), the Malteser Hospitaldienst Austria (the Austrian organisation of the Order of Malta Ambulance Corps) and the Grünes Kreuz (\"Green Cross\") operate various non-emergency ambulances (\"KTW\") for non-emergency patient transportation. In addition to the land-ambulances there's also the C12 air ambulance helicopter stationed at Graz airport, which is also staffed with an emergency doctor in addition to regular personnel.\n\nGraz is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following are past and present notable residents of Graz.\n\n\nOfficial websites\n\nHistory\n\nFurther information\n"}
{"id": "40251003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251003", "title": "Interpreter (journal)", "text": "Interpreter (journal)\n\nInterpreter: A Journal of Mormon Scripture is a non-profit peer-reviewed educational academic journal published by the Interpreter Foundation covering primarily LDS apologetics as well as Mormon studies. It was established in 2012 by The Interpreter Foundation with Daniel C. Peterson as founding editor-in-chief. Peterson had previously been the founding editor of the journal \"FARMS Review\", which in 2011 had been renamed \"Mormon Studies Review\" and soon thereafter re-launched without apologetics as its main focus. The Interpreter Foundation also sponsors debates and discussions. These have included two symposia focused on the relationship between science and Mormonism\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30148296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30148296", "title": "Ixcateopan (archaeological site)", "text": "Ixcateopan (archaeological site)\n\nIxcateopan is an archaeological site located in the town and municipality of Ixcateopan de Cuauhtémoc, 36 kilometers from Taxco, in the isolated and rugged mountains of the northern part of Guerrero state, Mexico.\n\nThe explored archeological remains are part of a city which functioned as an important regional ceremonial center. Ixcateopan was a place of cult and army garrisons inhabited by various native groups, such as the Cohuixcas (people of the place where there are lizards), The Chontales (foreigners) and by the Aztecs, at the time when the latter were at war with the Purépecha.\n\nThe city is known as the final resting place of Cuauhtémoc, the last Aztec Tlatoani, whose remains were found under the parish church here in the mid-20th century. This church has been converted into a museum with displays a number of pre-Hispanic artifacts, offerings left in honor of the emperor and the remains of Cuauhtémoc himself.\n\nOnly a portion of the \"original\" structures remain, as a result of a street construction and multiple sackings that have occurred by people seeking “carved” stones.\nOnly the civic-religious section can be seen, constituted by several rooms and open spaces, where remains of red stucco in the floors can be observed, the main structure is of circular shape and might have been dedicated to Quetzalcoatl. The chronological placing of the site is from 1350 to 1521 CE.\n\nThe first humans in the state’s territory were nomadic hunter-gatherers who left evidence of their existence in various caves starting about 22,000 years ago. Up until about 8,000 years ago, climatic conditions better favored human habitation than those today; however, sedimentary human habitation happened around this time in the mountainous areas with more moisture, and better soil for agriculture. After that, settlements appeared near the coast because of fishing. At these sites, evidence of weaving, ceramics, basketry and other crafts have been found. Around this time, a grain called teocintle, or the forerunner to corn, became the staple of the diet.\n\nThe first settlers of the state were the Olmecs during the Mesoamerican Preclassical period, establishing themselves in the vicinity of the Balsas River, living in caves. The chichimecas inhabited the Tierra Caliente region.\n\nThere is debate as to whether the earliest civilizations here were Olmecs who migrated to this region or native peoples who were heavily influenced by the Olmecs, especially in the Mexcala River area. Olmec influences can be seen in cave paintings such as those found in Juxtlahuaca and well as stone tools and jade jewelry from the time period.\n\nEventually, the peoples of the Mexcala River area developed their own distinctive culture, called Mezcala or Mexcala. It is characterized by its own sculpture and ceramics, distinguished by its simplicity. Olmec influence remained with this culture, especially evident in the grouping of villages, construction of ceremonial centers and a government dominated by priests. Later, the culture assimilated aspects of the Teotihuacan model, which included the Mesoamerican ball game .\n\nLater migrations to the area brought ethnicities such as the Purépecha, the Mixtecs, the Maya and the Zapotecs who left traces on the local cultures as they established commercial centers around the 7th century. In the 8th century, Toltec influence was felt as they traveled the many trade routes through here in search of tropical bird plumage and amate paper. From the 12th century to the 15th, the various peoples of the state were influenced by the Chichimecas, culminating in Aztec domination by the 15th century.\n\nIn the 11th century, new migrations entered the area from the north, which included the Nahuas, who occupied what is now the center of the state and the Purépecha who took over the west. The Nahuas established themselves in Zacatula, Atoyac and Tlacotepec, later conquering the areas occupied by the Chontals and Matlatzincas.\n\nBy the 15th century, the territory of modern Guerrero state was inhabited by a number of peoples, none of whom had major cities or population centers. The most important of these peoples where the Purépecha, Cuitlatecs, Ocuitecas and Matlatzincas in the Tierra Caliente, the Chontales, Mazatlecos and Tlahuicas in the Sierra del Norte, the Coixcas and Tepoztecos in the Central Valleys, the Tlapanecos and Mixtecs in the La Montaña, the Jopis, Mixtecos and Amuzgos in Costa Chica and Tolimecas, Chubias, Pantecas and Cuitlecas in Costa Grande. Most of these lived in smaller dominions with moderate social stratification. One distinctive feature of the peoples of this was the use of cotton garments.\n\nThe Aztecs began making incursions in the Guerrero area as early as 1414 under Chimalpopoca as part of the conquest of the Toluca Valley. Incursions into the Tierra Caliente came around 1433 under Itzcoatl who attacked the Cuitlatecos settled between the Teloloapan and Cocula Rivers. By 1440, the Aztec Empire controlled the north of the state, or the mountainous areas. Attempts to take the Costa Chica area began in 1452 against the Yopis, which failed. Various battles would be fought between 1452 and 1511 before most of the rest of the state became Aztec tributary provinces. The modern state of Guerrero the comprised seven Aztec provinces.\n\nSome of the inhabitants of this area before the Conquest were the Cohuixas and the Chontals. The native community located at what is now the southern edge of the town dates back to at least 350 CE. This community was an important regional ceremonial center as well as the headquarters for the guardian soldiers. It was also closely associated with the production of cotton and cotton products, a valuable commodity at the time. Ixcateopan was one of the last cities to be subjugated by the Aztec Empire. The location served as a point to gather and then distribute tribute from surrounding areas. Mexica from other parts of the Aztec Empire, including soldiers, came here due to the wars between them and the Purépecha Empire. Because of this, Ixcateopan, originally a purely Chontal city, became multicultural.\n\nCuauhtémoc, the last Aztec Tlatoani (emperor), was born here in 1501. His mother, Cuayauhtitali, was the daughter of the Ixcateopan lord. Shortly before Cuauhtémoc was born, Ixcateopan was subjugated by the Aztecs and Cuayauhtitli was captured and brought to Tenochtitlan. There she met prince Ahuizotl, who married her. Cuauhtémoc was born of this union. Cuauhtémoc was educated in Tenochtitlan and then sent back to Ixcateopan. In 1519, he was ordered back to the Aztec capital to help defend it against the Spanish. After the deaths of Emperors Moctezuma II and, a short time later, Cuitláhuac, Cuauhtémoc became emperor, but was a captive of Hernán Cortés when Tenochtitlan fell in 1521. After enduring much torture, he and nine other Aztec lords were hung near a place called Izancánac in what is now Chiapas state. The remains of Cuauhtémoc, the other Aztec lords and a priest who opposed their execution were brought to Ixcateopan and buried here. From that time to the mid-20th century, the whereabouts of his tomb remained unknown.\n\nFray Torbio de Benavente, the local evangelist, and Fray Bernardino de Sahagún wrote texts about the death and burial of Cuauhtémoc which were initially kept at the Church of San Hipólito in Mexico City but somehow wound up in the hands of the family of Salvador Rodriguez Juárez, who was the doctor of Ixcateopan in the first half of the 20th century. The documents had been passed down in his family for generations. They told of how Cuauhtémoc’s body had been recovered and brought to Ixcateopan and initially buried at the palace of his maternal grandparents in 1525. In 1529, Fray Toribio de Benavente had the body moved to a spot in front of the destroyed pagan temple, where the Church of Santa Maria de la Asunción would be built over it. The documents indicated that this tomb was nearly directly under the main altar of the church. After Rodríguez Juárez showed the documents to elders at the parish church, the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (INAH) was contacted, which sent archeologist Eulalia Guzmán to investigate the authenticity of the documents. After examining the documents, investigating the oral traditions of the area and other archeological and historical evidence, it was decided to excavate in the place where the documents indicated.\n\nThe word Ixcateopan is of Nahuatl origin, from íxcatl or íchcatl, \"Cotton\", and teopan, teopancalli or teopantli, \"temple\", hence \"cotton temple\".\n\nIxcateopan (sometimes spelled Ichcateopan) from the Nahuatl words “ichcacates” (or “ixcatle”) and “moteopan,” “teopan,” or “teopancalli.” Most interpret the first word as meaning cotton and the second temple, leading to a translation of temple of cotton. However, some sources claim the real name of the area is Zompancuahuithli, and the name was changed to Ixcateopan after the arrival of Cuauhtemoc's body and means (here is the temple/church). The glyph in the Mendoncino Codex for Ixcateopan reflects both interpretations, a cotton flower, a depiction of Cuauhtémoc and a pyramid. “De Cuauhtémoc” was added to Ixcateopan’s name by the Congress of the State of Guerrero in 1950.\n\nHowever, according to the Mexico Municipalities Encyclopedia, Ixcateopan is a Nahuatl derived word, from the words Ichacates and Moteopan, which mean: \"here is your Lord of great respect\" according to this version, the ancient name of the municipality was Zompancuahuithli, other authors attribute the meaning to \"here is the Church\" and others \"Temple of cotton\".\n\nHieroglyphs in the Codex Mendoza represents two elements; a cotton flower called Ixcatl in Nahuatl placed on the steps of a pyramid representing a temple (in Nahuatl teopantli), the translated symbols of means: \"in the Temple of cotton\".\n\nAs noted above, there were three main groups occupying the area, at one time or another, these were the Cohuixcas, Chontales and Aztecs.\n\nTowards 1100 CE, the Nahua-Cohuixcas and Purépecha arrived in the area; the Cohuixcas settled the central region of the State of Guerrero, founding the towns of: Taxco, Iguala, Tepecoacuilco, Huitzuco, Tlaxmalac, Cocula, Teloloapan, Atenango, Tlamacazapa, Ixcateopan, Acapetlahuaya, Zumpango del Rio, Tlapa, Tixtla, Acapulco and Chilapa. The Purépecha groups founded Pungarabato, Coyuca Zirándaro and took over throughout the Tierra Caliente region.\n\nThey are referred to as Nahua-Cohuixcas, possibly because they spoke Nahuatl.\n\nThe Nahua name is given to different ethnic groups who have Nahuatl or Mexican as a common language. Nahuatl means \"something that sounds good, such as bell\" and also \"cunning or crafty man\" (Ladino). \nThe most important ethnic group in the Guerrero state was the Cohuixcas, who settled the central and northern regions. They came from northern territories. Coahuixca means \"plain of snakes\".\n\nThe Cohuixcas were the oldest inhabitants of this region, within the Atenango del Rio municipality, upon the Spaniards arrival, they were tributaries of the Aztecs, who through their expeditions had come to dominate this region. \nThe Chontales, Cohuixcas and other small fractions of peoples who spoke various languages, scattered from Guerrero to Oaxaca, nothing is known; modern people judges them from remains of tribes that preceded the Nations that left history traces.\n\nThis opinion is not so risky; Humboldt in the past, had tried the same judgment, while incurring certain errors. «The Nations that successively invaded Mexico, he noted, the Toltec, the chichimecas, the nahuatlaques, the Acolhuas, the Tlaxcaltecas and the Aztecs, formed a single group, almost like the Germans, the Norwegians, Goths and Danes, mixed into a single race; the Germanic peoples.» It is likely, that other Nations such as the Otomi, Olmecs, Cuitlateques, Zacatecos and Purépecha, have appeared in the region before the Toltec. Wherever people have progressed in the same direction, the place they geographically occupy somehow designates the chronological order of their migrations. By the same rule can place the Nations who spoke lost languages.\n\nThe last external offensive from forces loyal to the Aztecs came from the Malinalcas, Matlatzincas and Cohuixcas. Spaniards Andrés de Tapia and Gonzalo de Sandoval stop their advance.\n\nThere are two ethnic groups called Chontales, which do not have any cultural or linguistic relationship to each other:\n\nChontales de Tabasco, as they are commonly known, another designation is mayas-chontales or Maya putunes in the academic environment. As a result of the own struggles for social, political, economic demands, basic services, cultural rights and defense of their identity, the native groups call themselves, yoko-winik \"the real man\". The Chontal Supreme Council call themselves Yokokiniko ethnia: “real man and natives of these lands”.\n\nThis Chontal group is a descendant of the Mayans, the so-called Acalan-Tixchel chontales, and today are seated in the municipalities of Nacajuca, Centla, Jonuta, Macuspana and Center, in prehispanic times their presence extended to other municipalities such as Tenosique, Emiliano Zapata, Jalapa, Cardenas and Cunduacán.\n\nYoko ochoco, also known as Chontal Maya, and Acalan, is a Maya language of the Cholan family spoken by the Chontal Maya people of the Mexican state of Tabasco. There are at least three dialects, identified as Tamulté de las Sábanas Chontal, Buena Vista Chontal, and Miramar Chontal.\n\nChontales de Oaxaca or Tequistlatecos, the term comes from Tequisistlán, one of its main towns in the past. Their language, tequistlateco Joca-Meridional group and trunk Yumapacua, seems to be related with some languages of Baja California Norte, in the southeast of Mexico, Honduras and/or Nicaragua; however, to date their linguistic origin is still uncertain. There are dialect differences between speakers of the mountains and the coast, which hinders their mutual understanding.\n\nThe Tequistlatecan languages, also called Chontal of Oaxaca, consists of three distinct languages. One called Huamelultec or Lowland Oaxaca Chontal, Tequistlatec (which is probably extinct), and Highland Oaxaca Chontal. The \"Chontal\" languages are spoken by the Chontal people of the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Highland Chontal and Lowland Chontal (Huamelultec) are mutually unintelligible languages.\n\nThe Tequistlatecan languages are part of some versions of the controversial Hokan Macro-family proposal, but generally considered to be isolates. Campbell and Oltrogge (1980) believe that the Tequistlatecan languages may be related to Jicaquean but this hypothesis remains to be explored further.\n\nThe archaeological site remains so far explored comprise a section that possibly functioned as an important ceremonial center at regional level. Ixcateopan was placed of cult and war goods storage inhabited by various native populations, such as Cohuixcas “people from the place with small lizards”, the chontales “foreigners” and by mexicas, at the time when they were at war with the purépecha. The buildings correspond to at least five different constructive periods; the complex was dedicated to religious ceremonies, administrative activities and trade.\n\nAfter some Mexica military raids to areas near the Balsas River, under the command of Itzcóatl fourth Mexica Tlatoani (from náhuatl tlahtoāni “the speaker”), the military success over the northern part of the current Guerrero State was formalized during the ruling of Moctezuma Ilhuicamina, fifth Mexica “huey tlatoani” from 1440 to 1469, during which period the people of Oztuma, Ixcateopan, Taxco, Tlaxmalac and Cuetzala were conquered. Therefore, Ixcateopan became a tributary province of Tepecoacuilco.\n\nThe above was intimately associated with storage activities and clothing manufacturing from cotton, raw material that had to be the main source of supply and cult in the region. The archaeological zone is formed by a series of over laid structures built on the natural land elevation, it occupies approximately 5 thousand square meters. For construction they used local materials like: stone slabs, limestone and marble; for finishing, stucco and red paint was used.\n\nFinding of ancient instruments in the Ixcateopan archeological site corroborates that this place was subjugated by the Mexica military power.\n\nIxcateopan was one of the last places conquered and dominated by the Mexica military power, becoming towards the end of the 15th and early 16th century, a tributary of the Triple Alliance; tools found at this archaeological site corroborate that this prehispanic site spun cotton for Tenochtitlan, which was used to make soldiers suits.\n\nIn several site excavations ancient instruments were found, mainly spindle whorls apparatus (malacates), in the remains of some rooms.\n\nThe Malacates or disks with a central hole, sometimes referred to as “Rodelas” (washers), are complex to analyze. On the one hand, they have often been associated with spindle whorls, although there is little ethnographic documentation to support it was their main function. On the other hand, sometimes it is considered that these could have been beads or hanging decoration. It is difficult to consider other features for these curious samples.\n\nThe other functional possibility, that considered them as beads or hanging decoration, is somewhat complex to analyze, considering these are disks with perforated center holes and not precisely on its edges, as they could easily hung as necklace beads and pendant disks. In fact, the rodelas could have functioned as necklace beads, on a necklace that used on edge rather than front position. In other words, is a peculiar ornament, but not impossible to do.\n\nThe Malacates are all artifacts of primary class ceramic artifacts. Decoration on its upper side, many of them are flat on the bottom section, but the shape -all are circular- is variable in their section. In the past, (in Chiapas), it was mentioned that some Malacates were tapered, flat and mixed existed.\nIts most definite function, more than any of the remaining ceramic artifacts, always considered as spindle whorls. However, as a secondary or alternate function could also serve as necklace beads.\n\nThe finding of malacates, plus the Nahuatl site denomination, “Cotton Temple”, implies that Ixcateopan provided large amounts of this plant, already manufactured, to the towns of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco and Tlacopan.\n\nIt is considered that Ixcateopan spun cotton that was used to make suits of the mexicas soldiers. These data corroborate the narrow relation between Ixcateopan and the center of Mexico; local ceramics remains found here, are similar to those from the Valley of Mexico.\n\nThese aspects seem to point out that, since Ixcateopan did not have the topographic and strategic characteristics of sites located in the war belt, very possibly it formed part of the Mexica rear and was a storage place, for foods and war equipment.\n\nIxcateopan was a Chontal settlement, and even though neither their language nor physical features are known, archaeological y physical anthropologic studies shall determine the various aspects of this cultural group, unknown to date. However, this prehispanic site had a multi-cultural configuration.\n\nIn the north of the Guerrero State, Ixcateopan represents the only late postclassical period (1200–1521 AD.) site that has been extensively explored.\n\nExcavations from the first field season at this archaeological site, conducted in 2008, provided detection of at least three constructive stages, from 1450 to 1521 AD. This is known from ceramic remains of the denominated type Aztec III, other locally manufactured as an imitation of the previous, fragments of the type called “Rojo Texcoco”, from Cholula and, in addition, two local types colored dark red over beige and “Yestla”-Orange.\n\nThis unique village could well be named \"the marble town\", because its narrow streets are paved with this noble material, which magnificently beautifies the physiognomy of the town, due to the borrow sites surrounding the town.\n\nIxcateopan covers an extension of about one hectare and a half, and it is within the city of the same name, where circular altars are distributed and stairways, finished in a dice shape.\n\nEast and west sections of the site have been explored, which was built on a natural slope. In the first area vestiges of a 56 meters long wall was found, part of a platform; and in the second area (west) a series of terraces were found.\n\nThe top of this slope was arranged by means of artificial terraces, which facilitated the construction of a large platform on which the ceremonial center was built, as well as plazas, walkways, stairways, living quarters and storage.\n\nThe constructions, from the postclassical period, were built between 1350 and 1450 CE.\n\nThe buildings are at least from five different constructive periods; the complex was dedicated to religious ceremonies, administrative and trade activities.\n\nEsto a su vez, está íntimamente asociado an actividades de almacenamiento y elaboración de productos derivados del algodón, materia prima que debió ser la principal fuente de abasto y de culto en la región.\n\nThe archaeological zone consists of a series of overlays built on a natural elevation of the terrain, which occupies approximately 5 thousand square meters. Construction materials employed include: stone slabs, marble, limestone, boulders; and stucco and red paint used for finishing.\n\nCeramic artifacts are a large and important group of samples found, generally mentioned in archaeological reports, serve to describe as well as chronological placement of sites, although seldom are investigation and study specific subjects\n\nThe typical ceramics used at that time was made of three legged hollow “Boxes” (cajetes), and with a streamlined serpent shape, or metlapilcoate. “Cajetes” were painted brown over beige, and there were other decoration painted color brown, black and polychrome beige.\n\nThe 16th century geographic relations written by Lucas Pinto, state that in \"Ichcateopan\", people adored two main Gods, a man and a woman, called \"Iztac Tlamacazqui\" (white priest) and Acxoyatl Cihuatl (the fir tree woman). Two main priests were in charge of the cult and the sacrifice of virgin women. The population made penances and self-sacrifices; they stuck their tongue and ears with thorns, removed blood and ignited copal. The white priest seemed to represent cotton, part Ixcateopan glyph of the place name.\n\nThe zone has older Olmec settlements from the mid preclassical (1200 – 400 BC.) period such as Teopantecuanitlán and Oxtotitlán, as well as from the classical and postclassical (200 BC. - 1521 AD.), during which period it had a cultural mosaic, and people talked in various languages; tlapanec, mixteco, Nahuatl, Matlatzinca, purépecha, etc.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42853062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42853062", "title": "John Blair (historian)", "text": "John Blair (historian)\n\nWilliam John Blair, (born 4 March 1955) is an English historian, archaeologist, and academic, who specialises in Anglo-Saxon England. He is Professor of Medieval History and Archaeology at the University of Oxford, and a Fellow of The Queen's College, Oxford. He gave the 2013 Ford Lectures at the University of Oxford.\n\nBlair was born on 4 March 1955 in Woking, Surrey, England. His father was Claude Blair, a museum curator and \"one of the foremost authorities on historic European metalwork, especially arms and armour\", and his mother was Joan Mary Greville Blair (née Drinkwater).\n\nBlair was educated at St John's School, Leatherhead, an independent school in Leatherhead, Surrey. He then studied at Brasenose College, Oxford, graduating with a first-class Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in 1976. He remained at Brasenose College to undertake postgraduate research and completed his Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree in 1983. His doctoral thesis was titled \"Landholding, Church and Settlement in Surrey before 1300\".\n\nDuring his doctoral research, Blair was a Junior Research Fellow at Brasenose College, Oxford. In 1981, he was elected a Fellow of The Queen's College, Oxford. Since then, he has been a praelector and tutor in history at the college. On 1 October 2006, he was awarded a Title of Distinction by the University of Oxford as \"professor of Medieval History and Archaeology\".\n\nBlair gave the 2013 Ford Lectures at the University of Oxford. The lecture series was tiled \"Building the Anglo-Saxon Landscape\".\n\nOn 5 May 1983, Blair was elected Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (FSA). He was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA) in 2008.\n\nIn 2005, Blair married Kanerva Heikkinen. Together they have two children; one daughter and one son.\n\n"}
{"id": "30156160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30156160", "title": "Journal of Memory and Language", "text": "Journal of Memory and Language\n\nThe Journal of Memory and Language is a peer-reviewed interdisciplinary academic journal of cognitive science, which focuses primarily on the issues of memory and language comprehension. It has been published by Elsevier since 1985. The current editor-in-chief is Richard Gerrig (Stony Brook University).\n\nThe Institute for Scientific Information's \"Journal Citation Reports\" ranked the journal first in the field of linguistics, with a 2010 impact factor of 4.014.\n\nThe journal is indexed in Abstracts in Anthropology, Current Contents, Current Index to Journals in Education, Neuroscience Citation Index, PsycINFO, Research Alert, Scopus, and the Social Sciences Citation Index.\n"}
{"id": "29429770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29429770", "title": "Kristen R. Ghodsee", "text": "Kristen R. Ghodsee\n\nKristen R. Ghodsee (born April 26, 1970) is an American ethnographer and Professor of Russian and East European Studies at the University of Pennsylvania known primarily for her ethnographic work on post-communist Bulgaria as well as being a contributor to the field of postsocialist gender studies. Contrary to the prevailing opinion of most feminist scholars in the 1990s who believed that women would be disproportionately harmed by the collapse of communism, Ghodsee argued that many East European women would actually fare better than men in newly competitive labor markets because of the cultural capital that they had acquired before 1989. She was critical of the role of Western feminist nongovernmental organizations doing work among East European women in the 1990s. She examined the shifting gender relations of Muslim minorities after communism, and the intersections of Islamic beliefs and practices with the ideological remains of Marxism–Leninism.\n\nGhodsee received her B.A. from the University of California at Santa Cruz and her Ph.D. from the University of California, Berkeley. She has been awarded numerous research fellowships, including those from the National Science Foundation, Fulbright, the American Council of Learned Societies, the International Research & Exchanges Board (IREX), and the National Council for Eurasian and East European Research. She was a resident fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, The Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research in Rostock, Germany, the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study at Harvard University, and the Freiburg Institute for Advanced Studies (FRIAS). In 2012, she was elected president of the Society for Humanistic Anthropology.\n\nIn 2004, Ghodsee published one of the first articles considering the gendered aspects of the growing nostalgia for the communist era in Eastern Europe. Already beginning in the late 1990s, various scholars were examining the phenomenon of \"Ostalgie\" in former East Germany and what had been called “Yugo-nostalgia” in the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. This earlier work on the emergence of communist nostalgia focused on its consumer aspects and considered the phenomenon a necessary phase that post-socialist populations needed to pass through in order to fully break with their communist pasts. In contrast, her concept of \"red nostalgia\" considered how individual men and women experienced the loss of the real material benefits of the socialist past. Rather than just a wistful glance back at a lost youth, red nostalgia formed the basis of an emerging critique of the political and economic upheavals that characterized the post-socialist era. More recently, Ghodsee has explored the politics of public memory about communism, World War II, and the Bulgarian Holocaust.\n\nIn her 2017 book \"Red Hangover: Legacies of Twentieth-Century Communism\", Ghodsee posits that the triumphalist attitudes of Western powers at the end of the Cold War, and the fixation with linking all leftist and socialist political ideals with the horrors of Stalinism, allowed neoliberalism to fill the void, which undermined democratic institutions and reforms, leaving a trail of economic misery, unemployment, hopelessness and rising inequality throughout the former Eastern Bloc and much of the West in the following decades that has fueled the rise of extremist nationalism in both the former and the latter. She says that the time has come \"to rethink the democratic project and finally do the work necessary to either rescue it from the death grip of neoliberalism, or replace it with a new political ideal that leads us forward to a new stage of human history.\"\n\nGhodsee's later work combines traditional ethnography with a literary sensibility, employing the stylistic conventions of creative nonfiction to produce academic texts that are meant to be accessible to a wider audience. Inspired by the work of Clifford Geertz and the conventions of “thick description”, she is a proponent of “literary ethnography.” This genre uses narrative tension, dialogue and lyrical prose in the presentation of ethnographic data. Furthermore, Ghodsee argues that literary ethnographies are often “documentary ethnographies,” i.e. ethnographies whose primary purpose is to explore the inner working of a particular culture without necessarily subsuming these observations to a specific theoretical agenda.\n\nGhodsee's third book, \"Lost in Transition: Ethnographies of Everyday Life After Communism\", combines personal ethnographic essays with ethnographic fiction to paint a human portrait of the political and economic transition from communism. While some reviewers have found the book “compelling and highly readable,” and “an enchanting, deeply intimate and experimental ethnographic narrative,” others have faulted the book for telling a story “at the expense of theory.” That the book was judged \"remarkably free of academic jargon and neologisms” produced very “mixed feelings” within the scholarly community with one critic stating that “the somewhat unconventional technique of incorporating fiction alongside her [Ghodsee's] ethnographic vignettes feels a bit forced.” Outside of academia, however, one reviewer claimed that \"Lost in Transition\" \"is very easy to read and is, in fact, impossible to put down, largely because it is so well-written.\"\n\nKristen Ghodsee's 2010 book, \"Muslim Lives in Eastern Europe: Gender, Ethnicity and the Transformation of Islam in Postsocialist Bulgaria\" was awarded the 2010 Barbara Heldt Prize for the best book by a woman in Slavic/Eurasian/East European Studies, the 2011 Harvard University/Davis Center Book Prize from the Association for Slavic, East European and Eurasian Studies, the 2011 John D. Bell Book Prize from the Bulgarian Studies Association and the 2011 William A. Douglass Prize in Europeanist Anthropology from the Society for the Anthropology of Europe of the American Anthropological Association.\n\nGhodsee also won the 2011 Ethnographic Fiction Prize from the Society for Humanistic Anthropology for the short story \"Tito Trivia,\" included in her book, \"Lost in Transition: Ethnographies of Everyday Life After Communism\". Together with co-author, Charles Dorn, Ghodsee was awarded the 2012 Best Article Prize from the History of Education Society (HES) for Dorn and Ghodsee's article in the journal \"Diplomatic History\": “The Cold War Politicization of Literacy: UNESCO, Communism, and the World Bank.”\n\nIn 2012, she won a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship for her work in anthropology and cultural studies.\n\nGhodsee's scholarly work on gender and everyday life during and after socialism has drawn criticism from both Western feminists and communists. In a 2014 essay in the \"European Journal of Women’s Studies\", philosopher Nanette Funk included Ghodsee among a handful of “Revisionist Feminist Scholars” who uncritically tout the achievements of communist era women's organizations, ignoring the oppressive nature of authoritarian regimes in Eastern Europe. Funk argued that the “Feminist Revisionists” are too eager in their “desire to find women’s agency in an anti-capitalist Marxist past,” and that this “leads to distortions” and “making overly bold claims” about the possibilities for feminist activism under communism.\n\nIn response, Ghodsee asserts that her scholarship seeks to expand the idea of feminism beyond the attainment of \"personal self-actualization\", asserting that \"if the goal of feminism is to improve women’s lives, along with eliminating discrimination and promoting equality with men, then there is ample room to reconsider what Krassimira Daskalova calls the ‘women-friendly’ policies of state socialist women's organizations.\" She notes that \"the goal of much recent scholarship on state socialist women’s organizations is to show how the communist ideology could lead to real improvements in women’s literacy, education, professional training, as well as access to health care, the extension of paid maternity leave, and a reduction of their economic dependence on men (facts that even Funk does not deny).\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "406418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406418", "title": "Levenshtein distance", "text": "Levenshtein distance\n\nIn information theory, linguistics and computer science, the Levenshtein distance is a string metric for measuring the difference between two sequences. Informally, the Levenshtein distance between two words is the minimum number of single-character edits (insertions, deletions or substitutions) required to change one word into the other. It is named after the Soviet mathematician Vladimir Levenshtein, who considered this distance in 1965.\n\nLevenshtein distance may also be referred to as edit distance, although that term may also denote a larger family of distance metrics. It is closely related to pairwise string alignments.\n\nMathematically, the Levenshtein distance between two strings formula_1 (of length formula_2 and formula_3 respectively) is given by formula_4 where\n\nwhere formula_6 is the indicator function equal to 0 when formula_7 and equal to 1 otherwise, and formula_8 is the distance between the first formula_9 characters of formula_10 and the first formula_11 characters of formula_12.\n\nNote that the first element in the minimum corresponds to deletion (from formula_10 to formula_12), the second to insertion and the third to match or mismatch, depending on whether the respective symbols are the same.\n\nFor example, the Levenshtein distance between \"kitten\" and \"sitting\" is 3, since the following three edits change one into the other, and there is no way to do it with fewer than three edits:\n\n\nThe Levenshtein distance has several simple upper and lower bounds. These include:\n\nAn example where the Levenshtein distance between two strings of the same length is strictly less than the Hamming distance is given by the pair \"flaw\" and \"lawn\". Here the Levenshtein distance equals 2 (delete \"f\" from the front; insert \"n\" at the end). The Hamming distance is 4.\n\nIn approximate string matching, the objective is to find matches for short strings in many longer texts, in situations where a small number of differences is to be expected. The short strings could come from a dictionary, for instance. Here, one of the strings is typically short, while the other is arbitrarily long. This has a wide range of applications, for instance, spell checkers, correction systems for optical character recognition, and software to assist natural language translation based on translation memory.\n\nThe Levenshtein distance can also be computed between two longer strings, but the cost to compute it, which is roughly proportional to the product of the two string lengths, makes this impractical. Thus, when used to aid in fuzzy string searching in applications such as record linkage, the compared strings are usually short to help improve speed of comparisons.\n\nIn linguistics, the Levenshtein distance is used as a metric to quantify the linguistic distance, or how different two languages are from one another. It is related to mutual intelligibility, the higher the linguistic distance, the lower the mutual intelligibility, and the lower the linguistic distance, the higher the mutual intelligibility.\n\nThere are other popular measures of edit distance, which are calculated using a different set of allowable edit operations. For instance,\n\nEdit distance is usually defined as a parameterizable metric calculated with a specific set of allowed edit operations, and each operation is assigned a cost (possibly infinite). This is further generalized by DNA sequence alignment algorithms such as the Smith–Waterman algorithm, which make an operation's cost depend on where it is applied.\n\nThis is a straightforward, but inefficient, recursive C implementation of a codice_1 function that takes two strings, \"s\" and \"t\", together with their lengths, and returns the Levenshtein distance between them:\n\n// len_s and len_t are the number of characters in string s and t respectively\nint LevenshteinDistance(const char *s, int len_s, const char *t, int len_t)\n\nThis implementation is very inefficient because it recomputes the Levenshtein distance of the same substrings many times.\n\nA more efficient method would never repeat the same distance calculation. For example, the Levenshtein distance of all possible prefixes might be stored in an array where is the distance between the first codice_2 characters of string codice_3 and the first codice_4 characters of string codice_5. The table is easy to construct one row at a time starting with row 0. When the entire table has been built, the desired distance is .\n\nComputing the Levenshtein distance is based on the observation that if we reserve a matrix to hold the Levenshtein distances between all prefixes of the first string and all prefixes of the second, then we can compute the values in the matrix in a dynamic programming fashion, and thus find the distance between the two full strings as the last value computed.\n\nThis algorithm, an example of bottom-up dynamic programming, is discussed, with variants, in the 1974 article \"The String-to-string correction problem\" by Robert A. Wagner and Michael J. Fischer.\n\nThis is a straightforward pseudocode implementation for a function codice_1 that takes two strings, \"s\" of length \"m\", and \"t\" of length \"n\", and returns the Levenshtein distance between them:\n\nfunction LevenshteinDistance(char s[1..m], char t[1..n]):\nTwo examples of the resulting matrix (hovering over a tagged number reveals the operation performed to get that number):\n\nThe invariant maintained throughout the algorithm is that we can transform the initial segment into using a minimum of operations. At the end, the bottom-right element of the array contains the answer.\n\nIt turns out that only two rows of the table are needed for the construction if one does not want to reconstruct the edited input strings (the previous row and the current row being calculated).\n\nThe Levenshtein distance may be calculated iteratively using the following algorithm:\n\nfunction LevenshteinDistance(char s[1..m], char t[1..n]):\n\nThis two row variant is suboptimal—the amount of memory required may be reduced to one row and one word of overhead.\n\nHirschberg's algorithm combines this method with divide and conquer. It can compute the optimal edit sequence, and not just the edit distance, in the same asymptotic time and space bounds.\n\nThe dynamic variant is not the ideal implementation. An adaptive approach may reduce the amount of memory required and, in the best case, may reduce the time complexity to linear in the length of the shortest string, and, in the worst case, no more than quadratic in the length of the shortest string. \n\nThe Levenshtein distance between two strings of length can be approximated to within a factor\n\nwhere is a free parameter to be tuned, in time .\n\nIt has been shown that the Levenshtein distance of two strings of length cannot be computed in time for any ε greater than zero unless the strong exponential time hypothesis is false.\n\nBy its definition, the Levenshtein distance is one-dimensional (it is used to measure string distance between only one pair of strings each time). It was made two-dimensional by Papadimitriou (2009), who gave a formula for the calculation of spatial complexity of a 2-dimensional map from the Levenshtein distances of strings representing horizontal and vertical stripes of the map. It was thus shown that this (Papadimitriou-Levenshtein) measure can as well serve to evaluate a map's spatial complexity and, in this way, was created a Spatial Levenshtein Distance.\n"}
{"id": "9466692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9466692", "title": "Lovers of Valdaro", "text": "Lovers of Valdaro\n\nThe Lovers of Valdaro, also known as the \"Valdaro Lovers,\" are a pair of human skeletons dated as approximately 6,000 years old. They were discovered by archaeologists at a Neolithic tomb in San Giorgio near Mantua, Italy, in 2007. The two skeletons appear to have died or were interred facing each other with arms around each other, thus reminiscent of a \"lovers' embrace\".\n\nArchaeologist Elena Maria Menotti led the excavation. It is speculated that the pair are a male and female no older than 20 years old at death and approximately in height.\n\nThe male skeleton was found with a flint arrowhead near the neck. The female had a long flint blade along the thigh, plus two flint knives under the pelvis. Osteological examination found no evidence of violent death, no fractures, and no microtrauma, so the most likely explanation is the flint tools were buried along with the people as grave goods. Seven years after their discovery, on 11 April 2014 they were permanently displayed inside a glass case in the National Archaeological Museum of Mantua, museum within the perimeter of the Ducal palace of Mantova.\n\nThe skeletons were displayed briefly in public for the first time in September 2011 at the entrance of National Archaeological Museum of Mantua, thanks to the effort of the association Lovers in Mantua which is seeking a permanent home for the ancient couple.\n\nProfessor Silvia Bagnoli, the president of Lovers in Mantua, has been campaigning for their right to have a permanent exhibit of their own.\n\n"}
{"id": "181653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181653", "title": "Mohawk language", "text": "Mohawk language\n\nMohawk (; \"Kanien’kéha\", \"[language] of the Flint Place\") is a threatened, yet resilient Iroquoian language currently spoken by around 3,500 people of the Mohawk nation, located primarily in Canada (southern Ontario and Quebec), the Haudenosaunne Confederacy and to a lesser extent in the United States (western and northern New York).\n\nThe word \"Mohawk\" is an exonym. In the Mohawk language, the people say that they are from \"Kanien'kehá:ka\" or \"Flint Stone Place\" or \"People of the Flint Nation\". The Mohawks were extremely wealthy traders, as other nations in their confederacy needed their flint for tool-making. Their Algonquian-speaking neighbors (and competitors), the People of \"Muh-heck Heek Ing\" (\"food-area place\"), a people called by the Dutch \"Mohicans\" or \"Mahicans\", called the People of Ka-nee-en Ka \"Maw Unk Lin\" or \"Bear People\". The Dutch heard and wrote that as \"Mohawks\" and so the People of Kan-ee-en Ka are often referred to as \"Mohawks\". The Dutch also referred to the Mohawk as \"Egils\" or \"Maquas\". The French adapted those terms as \"Aigniers\" or \"Maquis\", or called them by the generic \"Iroquois\".\n\nThe Mohawks comprised the largest and most powerful of the original Five Nations, controlling a vast area of land on the eastern frontier of the Iroquois Confederacy. The North Country and Adirondack region of present-day Upstate New York would have constituted the greater part of the Mohawk-speaking area lasting until the end of the 18th century.\n\nThe Scottish scientist Alexander Graham Bell, one of the inventors of the telephone, was greatly interested in the human voice: when he came across the Six Nations Reserve across the river at Onondaga, he learned the Mohawk language and translated its then unwritten vocabulary into Visible Speech symbols for the first time. For his work, Bell was awarded the title of Honorary Chief and participated in a ceremony where he donned a Mohawk headdress and danced traditional dances.\n\nThe Mohawk language is currently classified as threatened, and the number of native speakers has continually declined over the past several years.\n\nMohawk has the largest number of speakers among the Northern Iroquoian languages, and today it is the only one with more than a thousand remaining speakers. At Akwesasne, residents have begun a language immersion school (pre-K to grade 8) in \"Kanien’kéha\" to revive the language. With their children learning it, parents and other family members are taking language classes, too.\n\nA Mohawk language immersion school was established. Mohawk parents, concerned with the lack of culture-based education in public and parochial schools, founded the Akwesasne Freedom School in 1979. Six years later, the school implemented a Mohawk language immersion curriculum based on a traditional cycle of fifteen seasonal ceremonies, and on the Mohawk Thanksgiving Address, or Ohén:ton Karihwatékwen, \"The words before all else.\" Every morning, teachers and students gather in the hallway to recite the Thanksgiving Address in Mohawk.\n\nAn adult immersion program was also created in 1985 to address the issue of intergenerational fluency decline of the Mohawk language.\n\nKanatsiohareke (Gah-nah-jo-ha-lay-gay) is a small Mohawk/\"Kanienkahaka\" community on the north bank of the Mohawk River, west of Fonda, New York. The name means \"Place of the clean pot.\" Kanatsiohareke was created to be a \"Carlisle Indian Boarding School in Reverse\", teaching Mohawk language and culture. Located at the ancient homeland of the Kanienkehaka (Mohawk), it was re-established in September 1993 under the leadership of Thomas R. Porter (Sakokwenionkwas-\"The One Who Wins\"). The community must raise their own revenue and frequently hold cultural presentations, workshops, and academic events, including an annual Strawberry Festival. A craft shop on site features genuine handmade Native crafts from all over North America.\n\nThe primary mission of the community is to try to preserve traditional values, culture, language and lifestyles in the guidance of the \"Kaienerekowa\" (Great Law of Peace). Kanatsiohareke, Inc. is a non-profit organization under IRS code 501c3.\n\nIn 2006, over 600 people were reported to speak the language in Canada, many of them elderly.\n\nKahnawake is located at a metropolitan location, near central Montreal, Canada. As Kahnawake is located near Montreal, many individuals speak both English and French, and this has contributed to a decline in the use of Mohawk language over the past century. The Mohawk Survival School, the first immersion program was established in 1979. The school's mission was to revitalize Mohawk language. To examine how successful the program had been, questionnaire was given to the Kahnawake residents following the first year. The results indicated that teaching towards younger generation have been successful and showed an increase in the ability to speak the language in private settings, as well as an increase in the mixing of Mohawk in English conversations were found.\n\nIn 2011, there were approximately 3,500 speakers of Mohawk, primarily in Quebec, Ontario and western New York. Immersion (monolingual) classes for young children at Akwesasne and other reserves are helping to train new first-language speakers. The importance of immersion classes among parents grew after the passage of Bill 101, and in 1979 the Mohawk Survival School was established to facilitate language training at the high school level.\n\nMohawk dialogue features prominently in Ubisoft Montreal's 2012 action-adventure open world video game \"Assassin's Creed III\", through the game's main character, the half-Mohawk, half-English , also called Connor, and members of his native Kanièn:ke village around the times of the American revolution. Ratonhnhaké:ton was voiced and modelled by Crow actor Noah Bulaagawish Watts. Hiawatha, the leader of the Iroquoian civilization in \"Sid Meier's Civilization V\", voiced by Kanentokon Hemlock, speaks modern Mohawk.\n\nThe stories of Mohawk language learners are also chronicled in 'Raising The Words', a short documentary film that explores personal experiences with Mohawk language revitalization in Tyendinaga, a Mohawk community roughly 200 kilometres east of Toronto, Canada. The film is set to be shown at the 4th annual Ethnografilm festival in Paris, France.\n\nMohawk has three major dialects: Western (Ohswé:ken and Kenhté:ke), Central (Ahkwesáhsne), and Eastern (Kahnawà:ke and Kanehsatà:ke); the differences between them are largely phonological. These are related to the major Mohawk territories since the eighteenth century. The pronunciation of and several consonant clusters may differ in the dialects.\nThe phoneme inventory of Mohawk is as follows (using the International Phonetic Alphabet). Phonological representation (underlying forms) are in /slashes/, and the standard Mohawk orthography is in bold.\n\nAn interesting feature of Mohawk (and Iroquoian) phonology is that there are no labials, except in a few adoptions from French and English, where and appear (e.g., mátsis \"matches\" and aplám \"Abraham\"); these sounds are late additions to Mohawk phonology and were introduced after widespread European contact.\n\nThe Central (Ahkwesáhsne) dialect has the following consonant clusters:\nAll clusters can occur word-medially; those on a red background can also occur word-initially.\n\nThe consonants and the clusters are pronounced voiced before any voiced sound (i.e. a vowel or ). They are voiceless at the end of a word or before a voiceless sound. is voiced word initially and between vowels.\n\nNote that th and sh are pronounced as consonant clusters, \"not\" single sounds like in English \"thing\" and \"she\".\n\n\"i\", \"e\", \"a\", and \"o\" are oral vowels, while ' and ' (see ) are nasalized; oral versions of ' and ' do not occur in the language.\n\nMohawk words tend to be longer on average than words in English, primarily because they consist of a large amount of morphemes, or 'meaningful parts'. \n\nMohawk expresses a number of distinctions on its pronominal elements: person (1st, 2nd, 3rd), number (singular, dual, plural), gender (masculine, feminine/indefinite, feminine/neuter) and inclusivity/exclusivity on the first person dual and plural. Pronominal information is encoded in prefixes on the verbs; separate pronoun words are used for emphasis. There are three main paradigms of pronominal prefixes: subjective (with dynamic verbs), objective (with stative verbs), and transitive.\n\nThere are three core components to the Mohawk proposition: the noun, the predicate, and the particle.\n\nMohawk words can be composed of many morphemes. What is expressed in English in many words can often be expressed by just one Mohawk word, a phenomenon known as polysynthesis.\n\nNouns \n\nNouns are given the following form in Mohawk:\n\nNoun prefixes give information relating to gender, animacy, number and person, and identify the word as a noun.\n\nFor example:\n\n1) o'nenste \"corn\"\n\n2) oien'kwa \"tobacco\"\n\nHere, the prefix \"o-\" is generally found on nouns found in natural environments. Another prefix exists which marks objects that are made by humans.\n\n3) kanhoha \"door\"\n\n4) ka'khare \"slip, skirt\"\n\nHere, the prefix \"ka-\" is generally found on manmade things. Phonological variation amongst the Mohawk dialects also gives rise to the prefix \"ga-\" to generally denote human made objects.\n\nNoun roots are similar to nouns in English in that the noun root in Mohawk and the noun in English have similar meanings.\n\n5) –eri- \"heart\"\n\n6) –hi- \"river\"\n\n7) –itshat- \"cloud\"\n\nThese noun roots are bare. There is no information other than the noun root itself. It should be noted that morphemes can not occur individually. That is, to be well-formed and grammatical, \"-eri-\" needs pronominal prefixes, or the root can be incorporated into a predicate phrase.\n\nNominal suffixes aren't necessary for a well-formed noun phrase. The suffixes give information relating to location and attributes. For example:\n\nLocative Suffix:\n\n8) i. onu'ta' \"hill\"\n\nii. onuta'ke \"on the hill\"\n\n9) i. onekwvhsa' \"blood\"\n\nii. onekwvhsa'ke \"in the blood\"\n\nHere the suffix < -ke > denotes location.\n\nAttributive Suffix:\n\n10) kvjy' \"fish\"\n\n11) kvja'ko'wa \"sturgeon\" or \"big fish\"\n\nHere, the suffix \"-ko'wa\" denotes an augmentative suffix, which increases the attribute of the noun in question.\n\nVerbs \n\nMohawk verbs are one of the more complex parts of the language, composed of many morphemes that describe grammatical relations. The verb takes the following structure:\n\nMohawk grammar allows for whole propositions to be expressed by one word, which we classify as a verb. The other core elements (subjects, objects, etc.) can be incorporated into the verb. Well-formed verb phrases contain at the bare minimum a verb root and a pronominal prefix. The rest of the elements are not necessary.\n\nTense, aspect and modality are expressed via suffixes on the verb phrase as well.\n\nSome examples:\n\n12) katorats \"I hunt\"\n\nk-atorat-s\n\nI-hunt-habitual ASP\n\nThis is composed of three parts; the pronominal prefix, the verb root and a suffix which marks aspect. Mohawk seems to prefer aspect markers to tense to express grammaticalisation in time.\n\n13) nya'tsvshayaya'ke' \"…where he will cross over again from here to there…\"\n\nn-ya'-t-v-s-ha-yahya'k-e'\n\npartitive-translocative-dualic-future-iterative-noun-verb root-suffix\n\n\"Where over here to there will again he cross.\"\n\nThis example shows multiple prefixes that can be affixed to the verb root, but certain affixes are forbidden from coexisting together. For example, the aorist and the future tense affix will not be found on the same well-formed sentence.\n\n14) vsenatara' \"You will make a visit\"\n\nv-se-natahr-a'\n\nfuture tense+ nominative pronoun + verb root + momentary ASP suffix\n\n15) asenatara' \"You should make a visit\"\n\na-se-natahr-a'\n\nconditional mood prefix + nominative pronoun + verb root + momentary suffix\n\n16) sanatahrune' \"You were visiting\"\n\nSa-natahr-u-hne'\n\nAccusative Pronoun + verb root + stative suffix + momentary suffix\n\nHere, different prefixes and suffixes are used that mark tense, aspect and modality.\n\nMost grammatical relations in Mohawk are expressed through various different affixes onto a verb. Subjects, objects, and relationships between subjects and objects are given their own affixes. In Mohawk, each transitive relationship between subjects and objects are given their own prefix. For example:\n\n17) a: ku-noruhkwa\n\nI-you + love\n\n\"I love you\"\n\nb: ri-noruhkwa\n\nI-him + love\n\n\"I love him\"\n\nc: ke-noruhkwa\n\nI-it/her + love\n\n\"I love it/her\"\n\nEach of these affixes are denoting a transitive relationship between two things There are more affixes for denoting transitive relationships like \"we-they\", they-us (inclusive/exclusive), etc.\n\nNoun incorporation\n\nOne of the features of Mohawk called \"noun incorporation\" allows a verb to absorb a noun into it. When incorporation happens, an epenthetic \"a\" can appear between the noun root and the verb root. For example:\n\n18) Owira'a wahrake' ne o'wahru\n\nBaby ate the meat\n\nWith noun incorporation:\n\n19) Owira'a waha'wahrake'\n\nBaby meat-ate\n\n20) Wa'eksohare' \"She dish-washed\" ks = dish, ohare=wash\n\n21) Wa'kenaktahninu' \"I bed-bought\" nakt=bed + a (increment) + hninu=buy\n\n22) Wahana'tarakwetare' \"He bread-cut\" Na'tar=bread + a (increment) + kwetar=cut\n\nMost of these examples take the epenthetic vowel \"a\"; it can be omitted if the incorporated noun doesn't give rise a complex consonant cluster in the middle of the word.\n\nThe Mohawk alphabet consists of these letters: a e h i k n o r s t w y along with ’ and :. The orthography was standardized in 1993. The standard allows for some variation of how the language is represented, and the clusters , , and are written as pronounced in each community. The orthography matches the phonological analysis as above except:\nThe low-macron accent is not a part of standard orthography and isn't used by the Central or Eastern dialects.\nIn standard orthography, /h/ is written before /n/ to create the [en] or [on]: kehnhó:tons 'I am closing it'.\n\nStress, vowel length and tone are linked together in Mohawk. There are three kinds of stressed vowels: short-high tone, long-high tone, and long-falling tone. Stress is always written and occurs only once per word.\n\nSix Nations Polytechnic in Ohsweken, Ontario, offers Ogwehoweh language Diploma and Degree Programs in Mohawk or Cayuga.\n\nStarting in September 2017, the University of Waterloo in Waterloo, Ontario will offer a credit course in Mohawk; the classes are to be given at Renison University College in collaboration with the Waterloo Aboriginal Education Centre, St. Paul's University College.\n\nResources are available for self-study of Mohawk by a person with no or limited access to native speakers of Mohawk. Here is a collection of some resources currently available:\n\n\nThere are software packages available for both the Microsoft Windows and Mac operating systems to enable typing of the Mohawk language electronically. Both packages are available through FirstVoices, a web-based project to support Aboriginal peoples' teaching and archiving of language and culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17531876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17531876", "title": "National Military Museum, Romania", "text": "National Military Museum, Romania\n\nThe National Military Museum (), located at 125-127 Mircea Vulcănescu St., Bucharest, Romania, was established in 1923 by King Ferdinand. It has been at its present site since 1988, in a building finished in 1898.\n\n"}
{"id": "1225765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225765", "title": "NoHo Arts District, Los Angeles", "text": "NoHo Arts District, Los Angeles\n\nThe NoHo Arts District is a community in North Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, that is home to contemporary theaters, art galleries, cafes, and shops. The community is generally bounded by Hatteras Street to the north, Cahuenga Blvd to the east, Tujunga Ave to the west, and Camarillo Street to the south. The area features more than twenty professional theaters, producing new work and classics, diverse art galleries, public art, and professional dance studios. The district also features the largest concentration of music recording venues west of the Mississippi. A Metro Rail station is located here, the North Hollywood station of the Red Line, and serves as the terminus of the Metro Orange Line busway.\n\nBusiness and theater owners in the Universal City/North Hollywood Chamber of Commerce established a theater and arts district in 1992 with support from the Los Angeles Department of Cultural Affairs. They chose \"NoHo\", a play off the well-known SoHo Arts District neighborhood of New York City.\n\nToday, The NoHo Arts District, in conjunction with greater North Hollywood, is being transformed into a regional center, in large part as a result of the construction of Metro Stations for the Red Line and the Orange Line, two lines that have made the neighborhood into a regional hub for the San Fernando Valley. Medium- and high-density developments are being built around the Metro Station, making the Arts District a center of citywide development, with the intent of creating a walkable urban village. North Hollywood's landscape (and the Art's District as a result) has been transformed in recent years, with condominium towers (including a fifteen-story building on Lankershim Boulevard being built in the midst of older one-story bungalows and small apartment complexes.\n\nThe theater district includes two new large venues that expand upon existing theaters, the newly redesigned NoHo Arts Center (formerly the American Renegade Theatre) and the redesigned Historical El Portal. They add to the existing 31 theaters located in and around the NoHo Arts District. NoHo Commons, developed by J.H. Snyder Company, is located near the NoHo Arts District's commercial core and subway station. The $100-million, 292-unit loft apartment project by Snyder was the first segment to be completed of NoHo Commons, part of a \"transit village\" taking form at the terminus of the Metro Red Line subway and the Orange Line busway. The NoHo Commons construction and development consisted of three phases, completing with the construction of a Laemmle Theatre. Phase III also consisted of the construction of an eight-story office on the corner of Lankershim and Weddington in 2009. The building's primary tenant is currently the Art Institute of California-Hollywood. NoHo 14, a 180-unit, fourteen-story apartment building, was built in 2004 as one of the first large-scale developments in the neighborhood.\n\nThe historic North Hollywood train depot at Lankershim and Chandler Boulevards was restored in 2014 for $3.6 million. It is a Southern Pacific Railroad standard design, a One Story Combination Depot No. 15 or 21. The train depot, dating to 1896, sits on land owned by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, across from the Metro Red Line subway station and next to the terminus of the Orange Line bus line.\n\nCurrently the NoHo Arts District, in conjunction with the Community Redevelopment Agency-Los Angeles, is working on beautification efforts to make the area more appealing to businesses. The current focus is primarily on revamping store fronts on Lankershim Blvd and Magnolia Blvd with Burbank Blvd to follow.\n\nIn the future, North Hollywood plans a $1 billion mixed-use development at Lankershim and Chandler, surrounding the Metro Red and Orange line terminals. The project would re-develop with of commercial and residential space, including 562 residential units and three high-rise office towers. The project was awarded to Lowe Enterprises by the Los Angeles Metro board and will be designed by architects AC Martin Partners.\n"}
{"id": "1028717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028717", "title": "Patrologia Latina", "text": "Patrologia Latina\n\nThe Patrologia Latina (Latin for \"The Latin Patrology\") is an enormous collection of the writings of the Church Fathers and other ecclesiastical writers published by Jacques-Paul Migne between 1841 and 1855, with indices published between 1862 and 1865. It is also known as the Latin series as it formed one half of Migne's Patrologiae Cursus Completus, the other part being the \"Patrologia Graeco-Latina\" of patristic and medieval Greek works with their (sometimes non-matching) medieval Latin translations.\n\nAlthough consisting of reprints of old editions, which often contain mistakes and do not comply with modern standards of scholarship, the series, due to its availability (it is present in many academic libraries) and the fact that it incorporates many texts of which no modern critical edition is available, is still widely used by scholars of the Middle Ages and is in this respect comparable to the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\".\n\nThe \"Patrologia Latina\" includes Latin works spanning a millennium, from Tertullian (d. 230) to Pope Innocent III (d. 1216), edited in roughly chronological order in 217 volumes; \nvolumes 1 to 73, from Tertullian to Gregory of Tours, were published from 1841 to 1849, and volumes 74 to 217, from Pope Gregory I to Innocent III, from 1849 to 1855. \nAlthough the collection ends with Innocent III,\nMigne originally wanted to include documents all the way up to the Reformation; this task proved too great, but some later commentaries or documents associated with earlier works were included.\n\nMost of the works are ecclesiastic in nature, but there are also documents of literary, historical or linguistic (such as the Gothic bible in vol. 18) interest.\n\nThe printing plates for the \"Patrologia\" were destroyed by fire in 1868, but with help from the Garnier printing house they were restored and new editions were printed, beginning in the 1880s. These reprints did not always correspond exactly with the original series either in quality or internal arrangement, and caution should be exercised when referencing to the \"PL\" in general.\n\nThe \"Patrologia Latina\" contains authors of the 2nd to 13th centuries, in roughly chronological order, in 217 volumes:\n2nd–4th c.: 1–19;\n4th–5th c.: 20–63;\n5th–6th c.: 64–72;\n6th–7th c.: 74–88;\n7th–8th c.: 89–96;\n8th–9th c.: 97–130;\n9th/10th c.: 131–136;\n10th/11th c.: 137–149;\n11th/12th c.: 151–174;\n12th c.: 175–205;\n12th/13th c.: 206–217.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242379", "title": "Peronism", "text": "Peronism\n\nPeronism () or Justicialism (\"justicialismo\") is an Argentine political movement based on the political ideology and legacy of former President Juan Domingo Perón and his second wife Eva Perón.\n\nThe Peronist's Justicialist Party (\"Partido Justicialista\") derives its name from the concept of social justice ().\n\nSince its inception in 1946, Peronist candidates have won nine of the 12 presidential elections from which they have not been banned. As of 2018, Perón was the only Argentine to have been elected president three times.\n\nThe pillars of the Peronist ideal, known as the \"three flags\", are social justice, economic independence and political sovereignty. Peronism can be described as a third position ideology as it rejects both capitalism and communism. Peronism espouses corporatism and thus aims to mediate tensions between the classes of society, with the state responsible for negotiating compromise in conflicts between managers and workers.\n\nHowever, it is a generally ill-defined ideology as different and sometimes contradictory sentiments are expressed in the name of Peronism. Today, the legacy and thought of Perón have transcended the confines of any single political party and bled into the broader political landscape of Argentina; therefore Peronists are usually described as a political movement. Traditionally, the Peronist movement has drawn its strongest support from the working class and sympathetic unions and has been characterized as proletarian in nature.\n\nFrom the perspective of opponents, Peronism is an authoritarian ideology. Perón was often compared to fascist dictators, accused of demagoguery and his policies derided as populist. Proclaiming himself the embodiment of nationality, Perón's government often silenced dissent by accusing opponents of being unpatriotic. The corporatist character of Peronism drew attacks from socialists who accused his administration of preserving capitalist exploitation and class division. Conservatives rejected its modernist ideology and felt their status threatened by the ascent of the Peronist apparat. Liberals condemned the Perón regime's arbitrariness and dictatorial tendencies.\n\nDefenders of Peronism also describe the doctrine as populist, albeit in the sense that they believe it embodies the interests of the masses and in particular the most vulnerable social strata. Admirers hold Perón in esteem for his administration's anti-imperialism and non-alignment as well as its socially progressive initiatives. Amongst other measures introduced by Perón's governments, social security was made universal while education was made free to all who qualified and working students were given one paid week before every major examination. Vast low-income housing projects were created and paid vacations became standard. All workers (including white-collar employees) were guaranteed free medical care and half of their vacation-trip expenses and mothers-to-be received three paid months off prior to and after giving birth. Workers' recreation centers were also constructed throughout the country.\n\nPerón's ideas were widely embraced by a variety of different groups in Argentina across the political spectrum. Perón's personal views later became a burden on the ideology, see for example his anti-clericalism, which did not strike a sympathetic chord with upper-class Argentinians.\n\nPeronism is widely regarded as a form of corporate socialism, or \"right-wing socialism\". Perón's public speeches were consistently nationalist and populist. It would be difficult to separate Peronism from corporate nationalism, for Perón nationalized Argentina's large corporations, blurring distinctions between corporations and government. At the same time, the labor unions became corporate, ceding the right to strike in agreements with Perón as Secretary of Welfare in the military government from 1943–1945. In exchange, the state was to assume the role of negotiator between conflicting interests.\n\nPeronism also lacked a strong interest in matters of foreign policy other than the belief that the political and economic influences of other nations should be kept out of Argentina—he was somewhat isolationist. Early in his presidency, Perón envisioned Argentina's role as a model for other countries in Latin America and beyond, but such ideas were ultimately abandoned. Despite his oppositional rhetoric, Perón frequently sought cooperation with the United States government on various issues.\n\nPolitical opponents sustain that Perón and his administration resorted to organized violence and dictatorial rule; that Perón showed contempt for any opponents; and regularly characterized them as traitors and agents of foreign powers. Perón maintained the institutions of democratic rule, but subverted freedoms through such actions as nationalizing the broadcasting system, centralizing the unions under his control and monopolizing the supply of newspaper print. At times, Perón also resorted to tactics such as illegally imprisoning opposition politicians and journalists, including Radical Civic Union leader Ricardo Balbin; and shutting down opposition papers, such as \"La Prensa\".\n\nPerón's admiration for Benito Mussolini is well documented. Many scholars categorize Peronism as a fascist ideology. Carlos Fayt believes that Peronism was just \"an Argentine implementation of Italian fascism\". Hayes reaches the conclusion that \"the Peronist movement produced a form of fascism that was distinctively Latin American\".\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of Peronism was the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges. After Perón ascended to the presidency in 1946, Borges spoke before the Argentine Society of Writers (SADE) by saying: Dictatorships breed oppression, dictatorships breed servility, dictatorships breed cruelty; more loathsome still is the fact that they breed idiocy. Bellboys babbling orders, portraits of caudillos, prearranged cheers or insults, walls covered with names, unanimous ceremonies, mere discipline usurping the place of clear thinking... Fighting these sad monotonies is one of the duties of a writer. Need I remind readers of \"Martín Fierro\" or \"Don Segundo\" that individualism is an old Argentine virtue.\n\nPerón's ideology was economic and political in character and did not feature the antisemitism of Nazism.\n\nBefore Perón came to power in Argentina, the country had the largest Jewish population in Latin America. After becoming president, he invited members of the Jewish community to participate in his government. One of his advisors was José Ber Gelbard, a Jewish man from Poland. Peronism did not have antisemitic or other bias. The Jewish Virtual Library writes that while Juan Perón had sympathized with the Axis powers, \"Perón also expressed sympathy for Jewish rights and established diplomatic relations with Israel in 1949. Since then, more than 45,000 Jews have immigrated to Israel from Argentina\".\n\nIn the book \"Inside Argentina from Perón to Menem\", author Laurence Levine, also former president of the U.S.–Argentine Chamber of Commerce, writes that \"although anti-Semitism existed in Argentina, Perón's own views and his political associations were not anti-Semitic\". While Perón allowed many Nazi criminals to take refuge in Argentina, he also attracted many Jewish immigrants. Argentina has a Jewish population of over 200,000 citizens, the largest in Latin America and one of the largest in the world.\n\nA military and civilian coup, the \"Revolución Libertadora\", led by General Eduardo Lonardi, overthrew the Perón regime in 1955. During the coup, Lonardi drew analogies between Perón and Juan Manuel de Rosas. Lonardi used the quote \"neither victors nor vanquished\" (), which was used by Justo José de Urquiza after deposing Rosas in the battle of Caseros. The official perspective was that Perón was \"the second tyranny\", the first one being Rosas; and that both ones should be equally rejected and conversely both governments that ousted them should be praised. For this end, they draw the line of historical continuity \"May – Caseros – Libertadora\", matching the coup with the May Revolution and the defeat of Rosas. This approach backfired. Perón was highly popular and the military coup unpopular, so Peronists embraced the comparison established between Rosas and Perón, but viewing him with a positive light instead. Nationalist historians draw then their own line of historical continuity \"San Martín – Rosas – Perón\".\n\nThe absence of Perón, who lived for 16 years in exile in Francoist Spain, is an important key to understanding Peronism. After he went into exile, he could be invoked by a variety of Argentine sectors opposed to the current state of affairs. In particular, the personality cult of Eva Perón was conserved by supporters while despised by the \"national bourgeoisie\". In the 1960s, John William Cooke's writings became an important source of left-wing revolutionary Peronism. Left-wing Peronism was represented by many organizations, from the Montoneros and the Fuerzas Armadas Peronistas to the Peronist Youth, the Frente Revolucionario Peronista and the Revolutionary Peronist Youth, passing by Peronismo en Lucha or Peronismo de Base, which supported a Marxist viewpoint.\n\nOn the other hand, older Peronists formed the base of the orthodox bureaucracy, represented by the Unión Obrera Metalúrgica (Augusto Vandor, famous for his 1965 slogan \"For a Peronism without Perón\" and declaring as well that \"to save Perón, one has to be against Perón\", or José Ignacio Rucci). Another current was formed by the \"62 Organizaciones 'De pie junto a Perón'\", led by José Alonso and opposed to the right-wing Peronist unionist movement. In the early 1970s, left-wing Peronism rejected liberal democracy and political pluralism as the mask of bourgeois domination. The anti-communist right-wing Peronism also rejected it in the name of corporatism, claiming to return to a \"Christian and humanist, popular, national socialism\".\n\nBy 1970, many groups from opposite sides of the political spectrum had come to support Perón, from the left-wing and Catholic Montoneros to the fascist-leaning and strongly antisemitic Tacuara Nationalist Movement, one of Argentina's first guerrilla movements. In March 1973, Héctor José Cámpora, who had been named as Perón's personal delegate, was elected President of Argentina, paving the way for the return of Perón from Spain. A few months after Perón's return and the subsequent Ezeiza massacre during which the Peronist Left and Right violently clashed, new elections were held in September with Perón elected president and his third wife Isabel vice president.\n\nJosé Cámpora, a left-wing Peronist, had been replaced temporarily by interim President Raúl Alberto Lastiri while Perón had chosen to openly support the Peronist right. On 1 October 1973, Senator Humberto Martiarena, who was the national secretary of the Superior Council of the National Justicialist Movement, publicized a document giving directives to confront \"subversives, terrorist and Marxist groups\" which had allegedly initiated a \"war\" inside the Peronist organizations. From then on, the Superior Council took a firm grip on the Peronist organizations to expel the Left from it.\n\nOn that same day, a meeting took place among President Raúl Lastiri, Interior Minister Benito Llambí, Social Welfare Minister José López Rega, general secretary of the Presidency José Humberto Martiarena and various provincial governors, which has been alleged to have been the foundational act of the Argentine Anticommunist Alliance death squad.\n\nPerón's health was failing throughout his third and final term, which ended abruptly with his death and the succession of his wife to the presidency on 1 July 1974, but she was ousted by the military in another \"coup d'état\" in 1976, paving the way for the ensuing dictatorship's '\"National Reorganization Process\" and the subsequent \"Dirty War\" against everyone deemed subversive, especially leftists, including left-wing Peronists.\n\nThe official Peronist party is the Justicialist Party (PJ), which was the only Peronist party for a long time. During the government of Carlos Menem, a group of legislators led by Carlos Álvarez known as the \"Group of 8\" left the party, claiming that the government was not following Peronist doctrines. They created a new party, the Broad Front.\n\nA short time later, José Octavio Bordón left the PJ as well, fearing that he might lose a primary election against Menem and thus he created his own party to take part in the 1995 elections and allied with Álvarez' Broad Front in the Front for a Country in Solidarity (Frepaso) coalition. Similar breakaway movements followed frequently after that, creating many small parties which were led by single politicians claiming to be the authentic inheritors of Peronism.\n\nThe PJ did not participate as such during the 2003 elections. The party allowed all three precandidates to run for the general elections, using small parties created for that purpose. Néstor Kirchner won the elections running on a Front for Victory ticket. As he did not disband his party after the election, Kirchnerism relies on both the PJ and the Front for Victory.\n\nIn 2004, Chilean Christian Democrat Ignacio Walker wrote a column in \"El Mercurio\" criticizing Peronism stating it had \"Fascistoid\", \"authoritarian\" and \"corporative\" traits. He added that \"I tend to think the real wall that separates Chile from Argentina is not the Andes but the legacy of Peronism and its perverse logic\". A few months after Walker had written this column, he was appointed chancellor and the surfacing of his previous statements caused a diplomatic impasse between Chile and Peronist-ruled Argentina. A similar situation happened again in 2006, when it was made known that Chilean minister Andrés Velasco had referred to some Peronist leaders as having \"fascist traits\" and had supported Walker's analysis in 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54950187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54950187", "title": "Prague Papers on the History of International Relations", "text": "Prague Papers on the History of International Relations\n\nThe Prague Papers on the History of International Relations is a biannual peer-reviewed academic journal published on behalf of the Institute of World History (Faculty of Arts, Charles University in Prague) by the Faculty of Arts Press – Charles University. It was established in 1997 and covers the history of international relations. The journal publishes articles in English, French, German, Russian, and Spanish. Since 2006 the journal cooperates with the Institute of East European History (Faculty of Historical and Cultural Sciences, University of Vienna).\n\nThe editors-in-chief are Václav Drška (Institute of World History, Faculty of Arts, Charles University) and Arnold Suppan (Institute of East European History, University of Vienna).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in EBSCO databases and ERIH PLUS.\n\n"}
{"id": "38030762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38030762", "title": "Protagonize", "text": "Protagonize\n\nProtagonize is an online creative writing community based in Vancouver, BC, Canada. It was established in late December 2007. It is owned and operated by Taunt Media. The site caters to both amateur and experienced authors interested in online collaborative creative writing, and is currently home to over 43,800 works (pieces of writing) and 160,800 pages, and over 29,000 members from around the world.\n\nProtagonize is an online community and self-publishing platform, launched in December, 2007 by creator Nick Bouton as a home for Choose Your Own Adventure-style branching stories. Shortly after launch, the site began to allow for linear narrative as well, and has since expanded to include poetry, screenplays, and other forms of literature.\n\nFollowing its subsequent growth, there has been an increasing focus on the community aspect of the site, with features such as groups and writing circles being added.\n\nIn June 2008 Protagonize was selected as a finalist in the 2008 Canadian New Media Awards for \"Excellence in Social Media Websites\".\n\nIn June 2009 Protagonize was one of seven local BC startups chosen to demo at Launch Party Vancouver 7 as part of the Startup Most Likely to Succeed competition.\n\nAt least one published book started out life as a story on Protagonize.\n\nOn June 3, 2017, Protagonize closed down due to stagnant user growth and declining revenue from advertising and donations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58854243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58854243", "title": "Quota rule", "text": "Quota rule\n\nIn mathematics and political science, the quota rule states that when proportionally apportioning seats, the number of representative seats that should be alloted to a given party should be no more than the upper or lower roundings (called upper and lower quotas) of the proportional representation; i.e if a party deserves 10.56 seats out of 15, the quota rule states that when the seats are alloted, the party may get 10 or 11 seats, but not lower or higher. The use of this rule is important when allocating seats in places such as the U.S. House of Representatives and any place that uses proportional representation.\n\nThe rule can be rigorously defined as follows: Let formula_1 be the population of the party, formula_2 be the total population, and formula_3 be the number of available seats. The quota for that party is then\n\nWhen the quota results in a fractional value, the lower quota is the quota rounded down and the upper quota is the quota rounded up. Hence, the quota rule states that the only allocation for that party should be either the lower or upper quota. If at any time an allocation gives a party a greater or lesser number of seats than the upper or lower quota, that allocation (and by extension, the method used to allocate it) is said to be in violation of the quota rule.\n\nThe Balinski–Young theorem proved in 1980 that if an apportionment method satisfies the quota rule, it must fail to satisfy some other apportionment paradox. For instance, although Hamilton's method satisfies the quota rule, it violates the Alabama paradox and the population paradox. The theorem itself is broken up into several different proofs that cover a wide number of circumstances.\n\nSpecifically, there are two main statements that apply to the quota rule:\n\nDifferent methods for allocating seats may or may not satisfy the quota rule. For example, Hamilton's method proportions seats equally until a fractional value is reached; the surplus seats are then given to the state with the largest fractional parts until there are no more surplus seats. Hamilton's method will always pass the quota rule, as there is no period in which a state can be allotted more than the upper quota or less than the lower quota. \n\nJefferson's method, which was one of the first used by the United States, sometimes allocated more than is allowed, violating the quota rule. This violation led to a growing problem where larger states receive more representatives than smaller states, which was not corrected until Webster's method was implemented in 1842; Webster's method also violates the quota rule, although much more rarely.\n\n"}
{"id": "14920852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14920852", "title": "Race Matters", "text": "Race Matters\n\nRace Matters is a social sciences book by Cornel West. The book was first published on April 1, 1993 by Beacon Press. The book analyzes moral authority and racial debates concerning skin color in the United States. The book questions matters of economics and politics, as well as ethical issues and spirituality, and also addresses the crisis in black leadership. \n"}
{"id": "42242042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42242042", "title": "Rail transport in Walt Disney Parks and Resorts", "text": "Rail transport in Walt Disney Parks and Resorts\n\nRail transport can be found in every theme park resort property owned or licensed by Walt Disney Parks, Experiences and Consumer Products, one of the four business segments of the Walt Disney Company. The origins of Disney theme park rail transport can be traced back to Walt Disney himself and his personal fondness for railroads, who insisted that they be included in the first Disney park, the original Disneyland (a key component of the Disneyland Resort) in California in the United States, which opened on July 17, 1955. The Disney tradition of including transport by rail in its parks has since been extended to other Disney properties with the opening of Walt Disney World in Florida in the United States, Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan, Disneyland Paris in France, Hong Kong Disneyland Resort in China, and Shanghai Disney Resort in China. The Disney theme park chain is the largest on the planet by annual attendance with over 150 million visitors in 2017, and the rail systems located inside its properties play key roles as modes of transportation and as attractions for its visitors.\n\nEach Disney theme park resort has a rail transport system serving its general resort area, whether it's a monorail system located inside the Disney resort properties in the United States and Japan, or a conventional rail system connecting external rail networks to the Disney resorts in France and China. The Disneyland Monorail System in California is notable for being the first monorail system to operate in the United States, while the Walt Disney World Monorail System in Florida, with an estimated 150,000 passengers each day, is one of the busiest monorail systems in the world. Both Disney park resort properties in the United States, as well as those in Japan and France, contain theme parks that feature genuine steam-powered railroads. The Disney park chain has one of the world's largest private collections of operational steam locomotives, with seventeen in total spread across the globe. Additional rail systems within the theme parks in both United States resorts and the Hong Kong resort resemble steam-powered railroads, but their locomotives are powered by internal combustion engines. Other rail transport modes found in Disney parks include horse-drawn streetcar rail lines in the parks within both resorts in the United States and the resort in France, as well as replica vintage electric rail lines in the parks in California and Japan.\n\nOther similar railroads:\n\nMuseums and private railroads with rolling stock previously run on Disney property:\n\n"}
{"id": "51059997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51059997", "title": "Revue des études byzantines", "text": "Revue des études byzantines\n\nThe Revue des études byzantines is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal covering the study of Greek Christianity and especially Byzantine civilization. It was established in 1897 as Échos d'Orient, renamed Études byzantines in (with volume numbering re-starting at 1), and obtaining its current title in 1946. The journal is published by Peeters on behalf of the Institut Catholique de Paris and the editor-in-chief is Olivier Delouis.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "19415697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19415697", "title": "Road to Germany", "text": "Road to Germany\n\n\"Road to Germany\" is the third episode of the seventh season and the fourth episode of the \"Road To...\" series of the American animated television series \"Family Guy\". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on October 19, 2008. In the episode, Mort accidentally goes into Stewie's time machine and is sent to Warsaw, Poland on September 1, 1939. Brian and Stewie realize Mort has gone back in time, and go in the time machine to save him. \n\nThe episode was written by Patrick Meighan and directed by Greg Colton. Brian Blessed, Gregory Jbara, Martin Savage, Jeff Witzke and Robert Boomfield guest star in the episode. \"Road to Germany\" was seen by approximately 9.07 million viewers during its original broadcast, and it received positive reviews from television critics. In 2009, the episode, along with \"I Dream of Jesus\" and \"Family Gay\", received an Emmy Award nomination for \"Outstanding Comedy Series\".\n\nWhile the neighbors are watching the Oscars at the Griffins' house, Mort needs to use the bathroom so desperately that he runs into what he thinks is a portable toilet in Stewie's room. The \"toilet\" turns out to be a time machine, and Mort is sent to the past. Realizing that Mort does not have a return pad that would be able to bring him back to the present, Stewie and Brian take one of the return pads and go back in time to save Mort. They end up in Warsaw, Poland and find Mort in a synagogue. He believes he is in Heaven as he sees dead family members there. It does not take long for them to realize that the date is September 1, 1939, the day of the Nazi invasion of Poland and when World War II started.\n\nThe three cannot return to the present right away since the \"return pad\" to Stewie's time machine fails to activate. They decide to go to England where Mort, who is Jewish, will be safe from the Nazis. While attempting to cross the border, German officers find out that Mort is Jewish (while doing a poor impersonation of a Catholic priest), resulting in their being chased by the Nazis. Mort, Stewie and Brian make a getaway on a motorbike, followed by an elaborate undersea pursuit in a hijacked U-boat. The chase scene on the motorbike re-enacts the skateboard chase scene in \"Back to the Future\". Like Biff, the Nazi officers' car ends up slamming into a manure truck (\"Das Poop!\"). The three make it to England safely, and see Winston Churchill. Stewie examines the return pad and discovers it has run out uranium fuel. Brian states that the only place they can find the needed uranium in this time is at a \"secret\" nuclear testing facility in Berlin, Nazi Germany. The three join the Royal Air Force and fly a Lancaster bomber as they participate in a dogfight against a squadron of Luftwaffe Messerschmitt Bf 109 fighters, eventually reaching Berlin. After finding the nuclear research lab, Stewie disguises himself as Adolf Hitler, while the other two disguise themselves as Nazi Officers, and obtains the needed uranium. They then run into the real Hitler, who orders their execution, but they escape on the return pad back to their time (Hitler offered to spare them if they performed a charming musical number, but Mort cuts the eager Stewie and Brian off at the first line).\n\nThe group arrives back in Stewie's room 30 seconds before Mort originally entered the time machine. To keep these events from repeating themselves, Stewie kills the Mort that traveled with them by shoving him into the time machine and then blowing it up. The original Mort then enters the room and, now lacking the time machine \"toilet\" and seeing Stewie and Brian in Nazi uniform, soils himself instead.\n\n\"Road to Germany\" is the third episode of \"Family Guy\"´s seventh season. It was written by Patrick Meighan who had written \"Road to Rupert\". The episode was directed by series regular Greg Colton, who had worked on \"Brian Goes Back to College\", \"No Meals on Wheels\" and also \"8 Simple Rules for Buying My Teenage Daughter\". Peter Shin and James Purdun acted as supervising directors. John Viener worked as an executive story editor. Seth MacFarlane, Chris Sheridan, David A. Goodman and Danny Smith were executive producers. Alec Sulkin, Wellesley Wild and Mike Henry acted as supervising producers. Richard Appel, Brian Scully, Mark Hentemann and Steve Callaghan worked as co-executive producers. After reading the script aloud, Jewish executive producer David A. Goodman said, \"I'm going to get kicked out of my temple\".\n\n\"Road to Germany\" is the fourth episode of the \"Road to\" hallmarks of the series, which have aired in various seasons of the show, and the first to be directed by Colton. The episodes are a parody of the seven \"Road to...\" comedy films starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope, and Dorothy Lamour. The director who directed every previous Road to episodes Dan Povenmire left \"Family Guy\" soon after, following the conclusion of the fifth season, to create his own series, entitled \"Phineas and Ferb\", which has since been nominated for seven Emmy Awards.\n\n\"Road to Germany\", along with the first eight episodes of the seventh season were released on DVD by 20th Century Fox in the United States and Canada on June 16, 2009, one month after it had completed broadcast on television. The \"Volume 7\" DVD release features bonus material including deleted scenes, animatics, and commentaries for every episode.\n\nThe episode begins with a swing band version of the orchestral theme from the 1980s miniseries \"The Winds of War\" and \"War and Remembrance\". When Brian, Stewie, and Mort are chased by Nazis, a recreation of the chase scene, including music, from \"Back to the Future\" occurs where Stewie rides a makeshift skateboard, escapes and has the Nazis crash into a truck of manure. Also, the entrance into Warsaw mirrors Marty's arrival in 1955 Hill Valley. When Stewie picks up a Nazi uniform there is a McCain-Palin button attached. Stewie and Hitler re-enact the famous \"mirror\" scene from the Marx Brothers film \"Duck Soup\". The U-Boat sequence is an adaptation of U-571 when Stewie decides to throw trash out of the submarine in order to stop the U-Boat that was chasing them. Furthermore, the U-boat crashing scene is a reference to the multiple police car chases (and subsequent crashes) from \"The Blues Brothers\". The submarine scene also features a melody of 'Wishing Well' by Terrence Trent D'Arby. The scene where the Hawk Men defeat the Nazi Air Force is a parody of the film \"Flash Gordon\", with its original soundtrack by Queen. Stewie, Brian and Mort's escape from their crashing plane is a recreation of the raft scene from \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\". The Hebrew wedding scene plays a song titled \"Through Poland to Jewish Village\". The scene in the uranium lab where the scientist shows Stewie \"one hundred Luftballons\" followed by one popping is a reference to the song \"99 Luftballons\" where 99 red balloons trigger a nuclear war.\n\nIn its original broadcast in the United States on October 19, 2008, \"Road to Germany\" was watched by 9.07 million viewers and was the most watched show in Fox's Animation Domination block that night, beating \"The Simpsons\", \"American Dad!\" and \"King of the Hill\". The episode acquired a 4.7 Nielsen rating in the 18–49 demographic, finishing second in its timeslot after ABC's \"Desperate Housewives\". The episode also acquired a 6.1 rating in the 18–34 demographic, finishing first in its timeslot.\n\n\"Road to Germany\" received positive reviews. Ahsan Haque of IGN rated the episode 9.6 saying, \"Featuring gorgeous CGI animation, a genuinely exciting storyline, and some hilariously offensive humor, this Stewie and Brian centric episode of Family Guy easily stands out as one of the best episodes of the show in years.\" Alex Rocha of \"TV Guide\" was much more critical stating, \"it seemed that the show has taken a slight fall back. After having great episodes the past few weeks to get this current season started on a roll, we have witnessed another average, even sub-par episode.\" In his review of \"Family Guy\", volume 7, Francis Rizzo III of DVD Talk called the episode \"hugely memorable\", and stated that it \"features some of the finest animation the series has ever produced\".\n\nAccording to Seth MacFarlane, \"Road to Germany\" was one of three episodes (Along with \"I Dream of Jesus\" and \"Family Gay\") submitted for consideration for \"Outstanding Comedy Series\" in the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards in 2009. \"We picked three of our edgier shows as a choice,\" he explained, \"Ya know, we figured if we are going to be damned, let's be damned for what we really are.\" The series was ultimately nominated for the award, the first time in 48 years an animated series was nominated for the same category.\n\n"}
{"id": "48253552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48253552", "title": "Samut khoi", "text": "Samut khoi\n\nSamut khoi (, ; ; \"\"khoi\" books\") or samut thai (, ) are a type of folding-book manuscript which were historically widely used in many buddhist cultures, including Cambodia, Laos, Sri Lanka and Thailand, as well as in Myanmar, where they are known as \"parabaik\". The techniques used in their production came probably from the ancient kingdom of Ceylon (today's Sri Lanka). They are usually made with the paper of the Siamese rough bush or \"khoi\" tree, and are not bound like Western books but are folded in an accordion style. \"Samut khoi\" are made either with black paper (in Thailand known as \"samut thai dam\"), or with white paper (\"samut thai khao\"). The use of \"samut khoi\" in Thailand dates to the Sukhothai period. They were usually used for secular texts including royal chronicles, legal documents and works of literature, while palm-leaf manuscripts were more commonly used for religious texts.\n\nPaper books has a long history in the Khmer Empire, predating the Ayutthaya Kingdom. The paper used for the Khmer books, known as \"kraing\", was made from the bark of the mulberry tree. In what we now know as Cambodia, the \"kraing\" literature was stored in pagodas across the country. During the Cambodian civil war and the subsequent Khmer Rouge regime of the 1960s and 1970s, as much as 80% of the pagodas in Cambodia were destroyed, including their libraries. In Cambodia, only a tiny fraction of the original \"kraing\" of the Khmer Empire has survived.\n"}
{"id": "1047205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1047205", "title": "Saudade", "text": "Saudade\n\nSaudade (; , or , ; plural saudades) is a deep emotional state of nostalgic or profound melancholic longing for an absent something or someone that one loves. Moreover, it often carries a repressed knowledge that the object of longing might never return. One English translation of the word is missingness, although it might not convey the feeling of deep emotion attached to the word \"saudade\". Stronger forms of \"saudade\" might be felt towards people and things whose whereabouts are unknown, such as a lost lover, or a family member who has gone missing, moved away, separated, or died.\n\n\"Saudade\" was once described as \"the love that remains\" after someone is gone. \"Saudade\" is the recollection of feelings, experiences, places, or events that once brought excitement, pleasure, well-being, which now triggers the senses and makes one live again. It can be described as an emptiness, like someone (e.g., one's children, parents, sibling, grandparents, friends, pets) or something (e.g., places, things one used to do in childhood, or other activities performed in the past) that should be there in a particular moment is missing, and the individual feels this absence. It brings sad and happy feelings together: sadness for missing and happiness for experiencing the past.\n\nNascimento and Meandro (2005) cite Duarte Nunes Leão's definition of saudade: \"Memory of something with a desire for it.\"\n\nIn Brazil, the day of \"Saudade\" is officially celebrated on 30 January.\n\nThe word \"saudade\" was used in the Cancioneiro da Ajuda (13th century), in the Cancioneiro da Vaticana and by poets of the time of King Denis of Portugal (reigned 1279–1325).\nSome specialists say the word may have originated during the Great Portuguese Discoveries, giving meaning to the sadness felt about those who departed on journeys to unknown seas and disappeared in shipwrecks, died in battle, or simply never returned. Those who stayed behind—mostly women and children—suffered deeply in their absence. However, the Portuguese discoveries only started in 1415 and since the word has been found in earlier texts, this does not constitute a very good explanation. The Reconquista also offers a plausible explanation.\n\nThe state of mind has subsequently become a \"Portuguese way of life\": a constant feeling of absence, the sadness of something that's missing, wishful longing for completeness or wholeness and the yearning for the return of what is now gone, a desire for presence as opposed to absence—as it is said in Portuguese, a strong desire to \"matar as saudades\" (lit. \"to kill the saudades\").\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, \"saudade\" became associated with the longing for one's homeland, as hundreds of thousands of Portuguese-speaking people left in search of better futures in South America, North America, and Western Europe. Besides the implications derived from a wave of emigration trend from the motherland, historically speaking \"saudade\" is the term associated with the decline of Portugal's role in world politics and trade. During the so-called \"Golden Age\", synonymous with the era of discovery, Portugal rose to the status of a world power, and its monarchy became one of the richest in Europe. But with the competition from other European nations, the country went both colonially and economically into a prolonged period of decay. This period of decline and resignation from the world's cultural stage marked the rise of \"saudade\", aptly described by a sentence in Portugal's national anthem: \"Levantai hoje de novo o esplendor de Portugal\" (Lift up once again today the splendour of Portugal).\n\nThe \"Dicionário Houaiss da Língua Portuguesa\" defines \"saudade\" (or \"saudades\") as \"A somewhat melancholic feeling of incompleteness. It is related to thinking back on situations of privation due to the absence of someone or something, to move away from a place or thing, or to the absence of a set of particular and desirable experiences and pleasures once lived.\"\n\nThe Dictionary from the Royal Galician Academy, on the other hand, defines \"saudade\" as an \"intimate feeling and mood caused by the longing for something absent that is being missed. This can take different aspects, from concrete realities (a loved one, a friend, the motherland, the homeland...) to the mysterious and transcendent. It is quite prevalent and characteristic of the galician-portuguese world, but it can also be found in other cultures.\"\n\nSaudade is a word in Portuguese and Galician that claims no direct translation in English. In Portuguese, \"\"Tenho saudades tuas\" (European Portuguese) or \"Estou com saudades de ti/você\"\" (Brazilian Portuguese), translates as \"I have (feel) \"saudade\" of you\" meaning \"I miss you\", but carries a much stronger tone. In fact, one can have \"saudade\" of someone whom one is with, but have some feeling of loss towards the past or the future. For example, one can have \"saudade\" towards part of the relationship or emotions once experienced for/with someone, though the person in question is still part of one's life, as in \"Tenho saudade do que fomos\" (I feel \"saudade\" of the way we were). Another example can illustrate this use of the word saudade: \"Que saudade!\" indicating a general feeling of longing, whereby the object of longing can be a general and undefined entity/occasion/person/group/period etc. This feeling of longing can be accompanied or better described by an abstract will to be where the object of longing is.\n\nDespite being hard to translate in full, \"saudade\" has equivalent words in other cultures, and is often related to music styles expressing this feeling such as the \"blues\" for African-Americans, \"Sehnsucht\" in German, \"dor\" in Romania, \"Tizita\" in Ethiopia, \"Hiraeth\" in Welsh, or \"Assouf\" for the Tuareg people, appocundria in Neapolitan. In Slovak, the word is \"clivota\" or \"cnenie\", and in Czech, the word is \"stesk\". In Turkish, the word \"Hasret\" meaning longing, yearning or nostalgia has similar connotations.\n\nThe similar melancholic music style is known in Bosnia-Herzegovina as sevdah (ultimately from Arabic سَوْدَاء sawdā' : 'black [bile]', translation of the Greek µέλαινα χολή, mélaina cholē from which the term melancholy is derived).\n\n\"Saudade\" is similar but not equal to nostalgia, a word that also exists in Portuguese.\n\nIn the book \"In Portugal\" of 1912, A. F. G. Bell writes: \n\nA stronger form of \"saudade\" may be felt towards people and things whose whereabouts are unknown, such as old ways and sayings; a lost lover who is sadly missed; a faraway place where one was raised; loved ones who have died; feelings and stimuli one used to have; and the faded, yet golden memories of youth. Although it relates to feelings of melancholy and fond memories of things/people/days gone by, it can be a rush of sadness coupled with a paradoxical joy derived from acceptance of fate and the hope of recovering or substituting what is lost by something that will either fill in the void or provide consolation.\n\nTo F. D. Santos, \"Saudade\" as a noun has become a longing for longing itself: \n\nAs with all emotions, \"saudade\" has been an inspiration for many songs and compositions. \"Sodade\" (\"saudade\" in Cape Verdean Creole) is the title of the Cape Verde singer Cesária Évora's most famous song. Étienne Daho, a French singer, also produced a song of the same name. \"The Good Son\", a 1990 album by Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, was heavily informed by Cave's mental state at the time, which he has described as \"saudade\". He told journalist Chris Bohn: \"When I explained to someone that what I wanted to write about was the memory of things that I thought were lost for me, I was told that the Portuguese word for this feeling was \"saudade\". It's not nostalgia but something sadder.\"\nThe usage of \"saudade\" as a theme in Portuguese music goes back to the 16th century, the golden age of Portugal. \"Saudade\", as well as love suffering, is a common theme in many villancicos and cantigas composed by Portuguese authors; for example: \"Lágrimas de Saudade\" (\"tears of saudade\"), which is an anonymous work from the \"Cancioneiro de Paris\". Fado is a Portuguese music style, generally sung by a single person (the \"fadista\") along with a Portuguese guitar. The most popular themes of fado are \"saudade\", nostalgia, jealousy, and short stories of the typical city quarters. Fado and \"saudade\" are intertwined key ideas in Portuguese culture. The word fado comes from Latin \"fatum\" meaning \"fate\" or \"destiny\". Fado is a musical cultural expression and recognition of this unassailable determinism which compels the resigned yearning of \"saudade\", a bitter-sweet, existential yearning and hopefulness towards something over which one has no control.\n\nSpanish singer Julio Iglesias, whose father is a Galician, speaks of \"saudade\" in his song \"Un Canto a Galicia\" (which roughly translates as \"a song/chant for Galicia\"). In the song, he passionately uses the phrase to describe a deep and sad longing for his motherland, Galicia. He also performs a song called \"Morriñas\", which describes the Galicians as having a deeply strong \"saudade\".\n\nThe Paraguayan guitarist Agustin Barrios wrote several pieces invoking the feeling of \"saudade\", including \"Choro de Saudade\" and \"Preludio Saudade\". The term is prominent in Brazilian popular music, including the first bossa nova song, \"Chega de Saudade\" (\"No more \"saudade\"\", usually translated as \"No More Blues\"), written by Tom Jobim.\nJazz pianist Bill Evans recorded the tune \"Saudade de Brasil\" numerous times. In 1919, on returning from two years in Brazil, the French composer Darius Milhaud composed a suite, \"Saudades do Brasil\", which exemplified the concept of \"saudade\". \"Saudade (Part II)\" is also the title of a flute solo by the band Shpongle. The singer Amália Rodrigues typified themes of \"saudade\" in some of her songs. J-Rock band Porno Graffitti has a song entitled \"サウダージ\", \"Saudaaji\" transliterated (\"Saudade\"). The alternative rock band Love And Rockets has a song named \"Saudade\" on their album \"Seventh Dream of Teenage Heaven\". June 2012 brought Bearcat's release of their self-titled indie album that included a song called \"Saudade\".\n\nThe Dutch jazz/Rock guitarist Jan Akkerman recorded a composition called \"Saudade\", the centerpiece of his 1996 album \"Focus in Time\". The Belgian electronic music band Arsenal recorded a song called \"Saudade\" on their album \"Outsides\" (2005). The jazz fusion group Trio Beyond, consisting of John Scofield, Jack DeJohnette, and Larry Goldings released in 2006 an album dedicated to drummer Tony Williams (1945–1997), called \"Saudades\". Dance music artist Peter Corvaia released a progressive house track entitled \"Saudade\" on HeadRush Music, a sub-label of Toes in the Sand Recordings. New York City post-rock band Mice Parade released an album entitled \"Obrigado Saudade\" in 2004. Chris Rea also recorded a song entitled \"Saudade Part 1 & 2 (Tribute To Ayrton Senna)\" as a tribute to Ayrton Senna, the Brazilian three-times Formula One world champion killed on the track in May 1994. There is an ambient/noise/shoegazing band from Portland, Oregon, named Saudade. The rock band Extreme has a Portuguese guitarist Nuno Bettencourt; the influence of his heritage can be seen in the band's album \"Saudades de Rock\". During recording, the mission statement was to bring back musicality to the medium. \"Nancy Spain\", a song by Barney Rush, made famous by an adaptation by Christy Moore, is another example of the use of \"saudade\" in contemporary Irish music, the chorus of which is:\n\n\"No matter where I wander I'm still haunted by your name\nThe portrait of your beauty stays the same\nStanding by the ocean wondering where you've gone\nIf you'll return again\nWhere is the ring I gave to Nancy Spain?\"\nAmerican singer/songwriter Grayson Hugh wrote a song called \"Saudade\" that he performed with jazz guitarist Norman Johnson on Johnson's 2013 album \"Get It While You Can\". \n\nKingston-Upon-Hull IDM Electronica, Downtempo and Deep Groove legend, Steve Cobby, of Fila Brazillia, Solid Doctor, Heights of Abraham, the Twilight Singers debut notoriety and other musical incarnations and collaborations, released a 12 track album \" Saudade\" in March 2014 on DÉCLASSÉ Recordings.\n\nThe Portuguese author Fernando Pessoa's posthumous collection of writings \"The Book of Disquiet\" is written almost entirely in a tone of saudade, and deals with themes of nostalgia and alienation. Australian author Suneeta Peres Da Costa's novella \"Saudade\" follows Maria, a young girl from a Goan immigrant family, growing up in a political hierarchy of racism and colonialism\n\n\"Saudade\" is also associated with Galicia, where it is used similarly to the word \"morriña\" (longingness). Yet, morriña often implies a deeper stage of \"saudade\", a \"\"saudade\" so strong it can even kill,\" as the Galician saying goes. Morriña was a term often used by emigrant Galicians when talking about the Galician motherland they left behind. Although \"saudade\" is also a Galician word, the meaning of \"longing for something that might return\" is generally associated with \"morriña\". A literary example showing the understanding of the difference and the use of both words is the song \"Un canto a Galicia\" by Julio Iglesias. The word used by Galicians speaking Spanish has spread and become common in all Spain and even accepted by the Academia.\n\nIn Portugal, \"morrinha\" is a word to describe sprinkles, while \"morrinhar\" means \"to sprinkle.\" (The most common Portuguese equivalents are \"chuvisco\" and \"chuviscar\", respectively.) \"Morrinha\" is also used in northern Portugal for referring to sick animals, for example of sheep dropsy, and occasionally to sick or sad people, often with irony. It is also used in some Brazilian regional dialects for the smell of wet or sick animals.\n\nIn Goa, India, which was a Portuguese colony until 1961, some Portuguese influences still remain. A suburb of Margão, Goa's largest city, has a street named Rua de Saudades. It was aptly named because that very street has the Christian cemetery, the Hindu \"shmashana\" (cremation ground) and the Muslim \"qabrastan\" (cemetery). Most people living in the city of Margão who pass by this street would agree that the name of the street could not be any other, as they often think fond memories of a friend, loved one, or relative whose remains went past that road. The word \"saudade\" takes on a slightly different form in Portuguese-speaking Goan families for whom it implies the once-cherished but never-to-return days of glory of Goa as a prized possession of Portugal, a notion since then made redundant by the irrevocable cultural changes that occurred with the end of the Portuguese regime in these parts.\n\nIn Cape Verdean Creole there is the word \"sodadi\" (also spelled \"sodade\"), originated in the Portuguese \"saudade\" and exactly with the same meaning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5038821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5038821", "title": "Secularist of the Year", "text": "Secularist of the Year\n\nSecularist of the Year (also known as the Irwin Prize) is an award presented annually by the UK's National Secular Society to the individual or organisation considered to have made the greatest contribution to secularism in the previous year. The prize consists of a trophy, the \"Golden Ammonite\", and a cheque for £5000. It was first awarded in 2005 and is sponsored by humanist and secularist campaigner Dr. Michael Irwin. The award ceremony normally takes place in London in March.\n"}
{"id": "1805174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1805174", "title": "Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious", "text": "Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious\n\n\"Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious\" is the thirteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 7, 1997. When Marge becomes stressed, the Simpsons hire a nanny, a Mary Poppins parody, Shary Bobbins (voiced by Maggie Roswell). The episode was directed by Chuck Sheetz and written and executive produced by Al Jean and Mike Reiss. It was the last episode for which Reiss received a writing credit. In 2014, Jean selected it as one of five essential episodes in the show's history.\n\nAfter discovering that she is losing hair at an alarming rate, Marge visits Dr. Hibbert, who informs her that stress is the cause. The Simpson family decides to hire a nanny who can help clean the house and take care of the children but have trouble finding the right one. Bart and Lisa sing a song about what they would consider as the perfect nanny and when a woman with an umbrella glides down from the sky and introduces herself as Shary Bobbins, she seems perfect and is hired. Shary proves helpful for the Simpson family. Marge recovers from her stress and her hair returns to normal. The next day, as the reformed Simpsons sit down to a perfect dinner, Shary declares her work finished but after leaving the house, she sees Homer strangling Bart as they are smashed through the living room window, Maggie attempting to put out a fire and Marge losing her hair again. With the family reverting to its previous state of dysfunction, Shary is forced to stay. The family then treats her rudely and loses interest in her zest for life. Declaring that the Simpsons would be the death of her, she becomes depressed and starts to cry, sing, and drink. The family realizes what they have done and Marge admits to Shary that nothing can be done to change the Simpsons. Through song, they state that they are happy the way they are. Shary accepts this and leaves using her magical umbrella and although Homer suggests that they might see her again in the future, she is seen getting sucked into a jet engine in the background, unbeknownst to the family.\n\nAlthough the majority of the season eight episodes were executive produced by Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein, former executive producers Al Jean and Mike Reiss had signed a deal with Disney that allowed them to produce four episodes of \"The Simpsons\". The idea for this episode originated several years before its airdate when Jean and Reiss were the regular showrunners. The idea was pitched at a writers' retreat by Jean but nobody had wanted to flesh it out. After being allowed to come back to produce some episodes, Jean and Reiss decided to write this episode. At first, Reiss was against the episode and felt that it was a bad idea. He felt that the plot was slightly ridiculous and that the show should not feature any magic; except for a few moments, he largely kept magic out of the episode. He now considers it one of the best episodes that he co-wrote.At the time, \"Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious\" had more music in it than any other episode. While writing, Jean thought that the songs would stretch out and make the episode the proper length but it was considerably shorter than required. Several additional scenes, such as the \"Itchy & Scratchy\" segment, were added to pad out the episode. There was originally a sequence where Bart, Lisa and Shary visit Patty and Selma who sing \"We Love to Smoke\", a parody of \"I Love to Laugh\". The song was cut because it wasn't getting any laughs but the full version was included on the album \"Go Simpsonic with The Simpsons\" and a brief animated version was included as a deleted scene on the Season 8 DVD. During the end song, Homer can be seen dancing along but not singing; this was because the producers forgot to record Dan Castellaneta. Many of the scenes were animated by Eric Stefani, a former member of No Doubt, who specialized in animation for musical numbers.\n\nJulie Andrews (who portrayed the titular role in \"Mary Poppins\") was originally slated to appear in the episode as Shary, but in the end, the producers went with series regular Maggie Roswell after hearing Roswell's reading for the part. Quentin Tarantino was also asked to guest star, but he did not want to deliver the lines required, believing them to be insulting. Instead, regular Dan Castellaneta did the voice.\n\nThe plot of the episode is a reference to the 1964 film \"Mary Poppins\"; Shary Bobbins is based on the character Mary Poppins and the episode title is a spoof of the word \"Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious\". Several of the musical numbers are also direct parodies of songs from the film, including \"The Perfect Nanny\", \"The Life I Lead\", \"A Spoonful of Sugar\" and \"Feed the Birds\"; a deleted scene featured Patty and Selma singing their version of \"I Love to Laugh\".\n\nThe montage of Marge losing her hair features the song \"Hair\" from the musical \"Hair\" (though the version heard is The Cowsills version). Homer says he has seen \"Mrs. Doubtfire\" and believes that some of the candidates for the role of nanny are men in drag. Homer's imagination is a parody of the dancing characters in \"Steamboat Willie\" and features the song \"Turkey in the Straw\". In the park, Groundskeeper Willie is seen singing a cover version of \"Maniac\" by Michael Sembello. The scene where Principal Skinner attempts to sell Jimbo is a reference to a similar scene in the story \"Oliver Twist\".\n\nThe \"Itchy & Scratchy\" short \"Reservoir Cats\" is a parody of the scene in \"Reservoir Dogs\" where Mr. Blonde cuts off the ear of the police officer. The sequence features the same setting, camera angles and music — \"Stuck in the Middle With You\" by Stealers Wheel. At the end, Itchy and Scratchy dance in a manner similar to that seen in the film \"Pulp Fiction\". Shary and Barney Gumble sing a drunken rendition of Jimmy Buffett's \"Margaritaville\".\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious\" finished 38th in ratings for the week of February 3–9, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 8.8, equivalent to approximately 8.5 million viewing households. It was the third-highest-rated show on the Fox network that week, following \"The X-files\" and \"King of the Hill\".\n\nAlf Clausen received an Emmy Award nomination for \"Outstanding Music Direction\" for this episode.\n\nIn 2014, writers for the series picked \"Reservoir Cats\" from this episode as one of their nine favorite \"Itchy & Stratchy\" episodes of all time.\n\n"}
{"id": "57861928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57861928", "title": "T.J. Thomson", "text": "T.J. Thomson\n\nT.J. Thomson is a lecturer in the Creative Industries Faculty at the Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane, Australia, and a core member of its Digital Media Research Centre. He teaches and researches on visual communication topics, especially photography, image culture, visual journalism, and self-representation on social media. He holds membership in a number of national and international societies, has served as the associate editor of Visual Communication Quarterly since 2017, and is on the advisory board of the Society for Phenomenology and Media.\n\nThomson has critiqued the field of visual studies as being inundated with framing approaches and has both spearheaded and led the call for additional research and approaches that examine production influences on visual content that extend beyond such considerations. His work explores the human side of media production, such as the emotional toll of documenting trauma, as well as how freelancers learn and develop with lessened or absent institutional support.\n\nAfter obtaining an undergraduate degree in communication arts and graduating with honors from a state school in Nebraska, Thomson went on to receive a graduate certificate in qualitative research and an M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Missouri in 2018 while studying at its renowned School of Journalism, one of the world’s first.\n\nThomson has experience with both journalistic and corporate communication. Before entering academia, he worked as a freelance visual journalist and designer for a number of news outlets and organizations, including The Associated Press, The Washington Post, The Huffington Post, and the Omaha World-Herald. Corporate clients included QuickFire Networks, which was acquired by Facebook in 2015; Colorado Academy; and HotelTonight, among others.\n\nOne of Thomson's recent research studies on visual social media generated widespread media attention, reaching more than 40.6 million people and appearing in more than 94 news outlets, according to data provided by Cision. The study's findings were highlighted in IANS LIVE, India’s largest independent newswire service, Xinhua News Agency, China’s biggest and most influential media organization, The New Indian Express, Science Daily, and Futurity, among others.\n\nHe was interviewed in 2018 for a Business Insider article about the societal impact of social media use and was invited to write an article for Crux in 2017 commenting on visual coverage of the Pope’s overseas travels.\n\nHis visual research has also been included on the reading lists for the University of Liverpool's \"Research methods in communication and media\" course, Loughborough University’s 16SSC357: Producing The News course, The University of Stirling’s JOU9JR - Journalism Research & Analysis course, and The University of Pennsylvania’s COMM 246: Race and Gender in U.S. Mass Media course.\n\nThomson, T. J. (in press). The evolution of story: How time and modality affect visual and verbal narratives. \"Visual Communication Quarterly, 25\"(4).\n\nThomson, T. J. (2018). Mapping the emotional labor and work of visual journalism. \"Journalism\", 1-18.\n\nThomson, T. J. (2018). From the Closet to the Beach: A Photographer's View of Gay Life on Fire Island From 1975 to 1983. \"Visual Communication Quarterly\", \"25\"(1), 223-233.\n\nThomson, T. J. (2018) Photography: A Critical Introduction (Fifth Edition) by Liz Wells (Ed.) [Book Review]. \"Visual Communication Quarterly, 25\"(1), 3-15.\n\nThomson, T. J. (2018). Theorizing Images by Žarko Paić and Krešimir Purgar (Eds.) [Book Review]. \"Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly\", \"95\"(2), 549-550.\n\nThomson, T. J., & Greenwood, K. (2017). I “Like” That: Exploring the Characteristics That Promote Social Media Engagement With News Photographs. \"Visual Communication Quarterly\", \"24\"(4), 203-218.\n\nThomson, T. J., Perreault, G., & Duffy, M. (2017). Politicians, Photographers, and a Pope: How state-controlled and independent media covered Francis’s 2015 Cuba visit. \"Journalism Studies\", 1-18.\n\nThomson, T. J. (2016). Black, white, and a whole lot of gray: How white photojournalists covered race during the 2015 protests at Mizzou. \"Visual Communication Quarterly\", \"23\"(4), 223-233.\n\nThomson, T. J. (2018). Freelance Photojournalists and Photo Editors: Learning and adapting in a (mostly faceless) virtual world. \"Journalism Studies\", \"19\"(6), 803-823.\n\nThomson, T. J., & Greenwood, K. (2017). Beyond Framing: Influences of subject–photographer interactions on visual journalism. \"Journalism Practice\", \"11\"(5), 625-644.\n"}
{"id": "3937957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3937957", "title": "The People That Time Forgot (film)", "text": "The People That Time Forgot (film)\n\nThe People That Time Forgot is a 1977 Technicolor fantasy/adventure film based on the novel \"The People That Time Forgot\" (1924) and \"Out of Time's Abyss\" (1924) by Edgar Rice Burroughs. It was produced by Britain's Amicus Productions and directed by Kevin Connor. Like Connor's other two Burroughs-derived films, \"The Land That Time Forgot\" and \"At the Earth's Core\", the film was distributed in the United States by American International Pictures. \n\nThe film is a direct sequel to \"The Land That Time Forgot\", which initiated the series in 1975. The story follows a rescue expedition, led by Patrick Wayne in search of his friend, played by Doug McClure, who had vanished many years before. The expedition lands on Caprona, the same fantastic prehistoric land where dinosaurs and barbarian tribes of men coexist.\n\nMajor Ben McBride (Patrick Wayne) organises a mission to the Antarctic wastes to search for his friend Bowen Tyler (Doug McClure) who has been missing in the region for several years. A British naval survey ship takes them to Caprona. McBride's party: the paleontologist Norfolk (Thorley Walters), gunner and mechanic Hogan (Shane Rimmer) and photographer Lady Charlotte 'Charlie' Cunningham (Sarah Douglas) fly over the mountain wall of Caprona in an amphibious aircraft, but are attacked by a pterodactyl and forced down.\n\nThey find themselves in a world populated by primitive warriors and terrifying prehistoric creatures, all of whom they must evade in order to get back safely to their ship. They meet a cave-girl, Ajor (Dana Gillespie), who can speak English (she was taught by Tyler); she leads them to the land of a race of samurai-like warriors called the Nargas, who are keeping Tyler prisoner. When the volcano that the Nargas worship erupts, they must escape the cataclysm engulfing the land. Tyler sacrifices himself to cover their retreat.\n\n\nAccording to Kevin Connor, Amicus Productions wanted to follow \"At the Earth's Core\" with an adaptation of the John Carter stories but could not afford the rights so they made this sequel instead.\n\nAlthough the film was made by Amicus Productions, the company folded before it was released meaning AIP took sole credit.\n\nThe film makes some notable changes from the book:\n\n\n\"Time Out\" thought the film \"A lame sequel to Connor's earlier Edgar Rice Burroughs adaptation, The Land That Time Forgot, which was at least occasionally lively\"; the \"Radio Times\" called it an \"OK sequel,\" but a \"constipated confection\" with \"ludicrous mechanised dinosaurs and hopeless acting from an interesting cast.\" The reviewer however, found that \"A few shots, composed around celebrated fantasy illustrations, compensate for all the film's shortcomings\"; and critic Derek Winnert similarly opined \"the monsters and special effects are below par,\" but \"there are effective moments, and there is some curiosity value in seeing singer Dana Gillespie playing Ajor\"; while \"Blu-ray.com\" thought the film \"may not be the most polished effort around, but there's fun to be had with its crazy dino encounters.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1236189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1236189", "title": "The Story of Art", "text": "The Story of Art\n\nThe Story of Art, by E. H. Gombrich, is a survey of the history of art from ancient times to the modern era.\n\nFirst published in 1950 by Phaidon, the book is widely regarded both as a seminal work of criticism and as one of the most accessible introductions to the visual arts. It was originally intended for younger readers. Over seven million copies have been sold, making it the best selling art book of all time. It is currently in its 16th edition and has been translated into approximately 30 languages.\n\nThe book is divided into an introduction, 27 chapters each dealing with a defined time period of art history within one or several cultural/geographic contexts, and a concluding chapter summarizing the latest developments in visual arts. The first chapter starts examining prehistoric art and native cultures. The next four chapters are dedicated to the greater ancient cultures, especially Greece and Rome. Starting with chapter 8, Gombrich then begins to focus on Central European art, returning to a more global view in chapter 24 that deals with art of the late 18th and early 19th century in England, France and America. A striking property of \"The Story of Art\" is the amount of illustrations it contains, with more than 50% of the book's pages devoted to color photographs of paintings, drawings, architecture and sculptures. In the preface, Gombrich explains that it has been his intention not to mention any work of art that he could not also include as an illustration.\n\nThe first two sentences of the book have become famous: ″There really is no such thing as Art. There are only artists.″ Gombrich later elaborated on this statement by saying that he defines \"art\" based on its Latin root, meaning \"skill,\" and that there is \"no disembodied skill.\"\n"}
{"id": "1831083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1831083", "title": "Theories of technology", "text": "Theories of technology\n\nTheories of technology attempt to explain the factors that shape technological innovation as well as the impact of technology on society and culture. Most contemporary theories of technology reject two previous views: the linear model of technological innovation and technological determinism. To challenge the linear model, today's theories of technology point to the historical evidence that technological innovation often gives rise to new scientific fields, and emphasizes the important role that social networks and cultural values play in shaping technological artifacts. To challenge technological determinism, today's theories of technology emphasize the scope of technical choice, which is greater than most laypeople realize; as science and technology scholars like to say, \"It could have been different.\" For this reason, theorists who take these positions typically argue for greater public involvement in technological decision-making.\n\n'Social' theories focus on how humans and technology affect each other. Some theories focus on how decisions are made with humans and technology: humans and technology are equal in the decision, humans drive technology, and vice versa. The interactions used in a majority of the theories on this page look at individual human's interactions with technology, but there is a sub-group for a group of people interacting with technology. The theories described are purposefully vague and ambiguous, since the circumstances for the theories change as human culture and technology innovations change.\n\n\n\nCritical theory goes beyond a descriptive account of how things are, to examine why they have come to be that way, and how they might otherwise be. Critical theory asks whose interests are being served by the status quo and assesses the potential of future alternatives to better serve social justice. According to Geuss's definition, \"a critical theory, then, is a reflective theory which gives agents a kind of knowledge inherently productive of enlightenment and emancipation' (1964). Marcuse argued that whilst matters of technology design are often presented as neutral technical choices in fact they manifest political or moral values. Critical theory is a form of archaeology that attempt to get beneath common-sense understandings in order to reveal the power relationships and interests determining particular technological configuration and use. \nPerhaps the most developed contemporary critical theory of technology is contained in the works of Andrew Feenberg including 'Transforming Technology' (2002).\n\n\nThere are also a number of technology related theories that address how (media) technology affects group processes. Broadly, these theories are concerned with the social effects of communication media. Some (e.g., media richness) are concerned with questions of media choice (i.e., when to use what medium effectively). Other theories (social presence, SIDE, media naturalness) are concerned with the consequences of those media choices (i.e., what are the social effects of using particular communication media).\n\n\nAdditionally, many authors have posed technology so as to critique and or emphasize aspects of technology as addressed by the mainline theories. For example, Steve Woolgar (1991) considers \"technology as text\" in order to critique the sociology of scientific knowledge as applied to technology and to distinguish between three responses to that notion: the instrumental response (interpretive flexibility), the interpretivist response (environmental/organizational influences), the reflexive response (a double hermeneutic). Pfaffenberger (1992) treats \"technology as drama\" to argue that a recursive structuring of technological artifacts and their social structure discursively regulate the technological construction of political power. A technological drama is a discourse of technological \"statements\" and \"counterstatements\" within the processes of technological regularization, adjustment, and reconstitution.\n\nAn important philosophical approach to technology has been taken by Bernard Stiegler, whose work has been influenced by other philosophers and historians of technology including Gilbert Simondon and André Leroi-Gourhan.\nIn the Schumpeterian and Neo-Schumpeterian theories technologies are critical factors of economic growth (Carlota Perez).\n\nFinally, there are theories of technology which are not defined or claimed by a proponent, but are used by authors in describing existing literature, in contrast to their own or as a review of the field.\n\nFor example, Markus and Robey (1988) propose a general technology theory consisting of the causal structures of agency (technological, organizational, imperative, emergent), its structure (variance, process), and the level (micro, macro) of analysis.\n\nOrlikowski (1992) notes that previous conceptualizations of technology typically differ over scope (is technology more than hardware?) and role (is it an external objective force, the interpreted human action, or an impact moderated by humans?) and identifies three models:\n\nDeSanctis and Poole (1994) similarly write of three views of technology's effects: \n\nBimber (1998) addresses the determinacy of technology effects by distinguishing between the:\n\n"}
{"id": "42776777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42776777", "title": "Winter Trees", "text": "Winter Trees\n\nWinter Trees is a 1971 posthumous collection of poetry by Sylvia Plath, published by her husband Ted Hughes. Along with \"Crossing the Water\" it provides the remainder of the poems that Plath had written during her state of elevated creativity prior to her suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "21425983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21425983", "title": "Women to the Top", "text": "Women to the Top\n\nWomen to the Top (W2T) was a European project for bringing more women into top management. It was funded by the European Commission and ran 2003-2005 in Estonia, Denmark, Greece and Sweden, culminating in a transnational conference in Stockholm, 24–25 January 2005. The total budget was 5.6 million SEK (half a million euros). The project was directed toward private and public employers.\n\nThe final report of Women to the Top, and a summary of the final report, are available online and an article was published discussing the results: \n\nIn Estonia, Tiina Raitviir surveyed female executives from Estonia’s Top500 companies. One hundred women managers were identified as the basis for an informal network and a mentorship program. Eighty women managers participated in an initial seminar. Nine women followed up in subsequent workshops. All of the companies were foreign owned because it was believed they would be more willing to participate in the project than Estonian companies.\n\nFifty-one potential top managers attended interdisciplinary networks hosted by CeLi and two trade unions, the Danish Society of Engineers (IDA) and the Danish Association of Lawyers and Economists (DJØF). These women formed professional networks for Women in Top Management, Women in Human Resource Management and Women in Project Management. They attended seminars and a national conference. In addition, four recruitment firms were involved in a focus group to develop gender recommendations for consultants and managers.\n\nIn Greece, the project worked with The Research Centre for Gender Equality (KETHI). Thirty women attended counselling on entrepreneurship for women who wanted to start their own businesses. Seven more women attended vocational workshops at the organisations Amel, Elgeka and the Municipality of Athens. Members from ten recruitment companies took part in seminars and research on gender inequality and leadership. A survey was carried out to learn more about gender and employment.\n\nIn Sweden the project was administered by the Ombudsman for Equal Opportunities (Jämo) with Marie Trollvik as project leader. Fifteen major Swedish companies were involved, both public and private, and set up networks and a mentorship program. The project was evaluated by Jämo and the School of Business, Economics and Law at the University of Gothenburg.\n\n"}
