{"id": "5174257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174257", "title": "2001–02 India–Pakistan standoff", "text": "2001–02 India–Pakistan standoff\n\nThe 2001–2002 India–Pakistan standoff was a military standoff between India and Pakistan that resulted in the massing of troops on either side of the border and along the Line of Control (LoC) in the region of Kashmir. This was the second major military standoff between India and Pakistan following the successful detonation of nuclear devices by both countries in 1998 and the most recent standoff between the nuclear rivals. The other had been the Kargil War in 1999.\n\nThe military buildup was initiated by India responding to a terrorist attack on the Indian Parliament on 13 December 2001 (during which twelve people, including the five terrorists who attacked the building, were killed) and the legislative Assembly on 1 October 2001. India claimed that the attacks were carried out by two Pakistan-based terror groups fighting Indian administered Kashmir, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, both of whom India has said are backed by Pakistan's ISI – a charge that Pakistan denied.\n\nIn the Western media, coverage of the standoff focused on the possibility of a nuclear war between the two countries and the implications of the potential conflict on the American-led \"Global War on Terrorism\" in nearby Afghanistan. Tensions de-escalated following international diplomatic mediation which resulted in the October 2002 withdrawal of Indian and Pakistani troops from the international border.\n\nOn the morning of 13 December 2001, a cell of five armed men attacked the Indian Parliament by breaching the security cordon at Gate 12. The five men killed seven people before being shot dead by Indian Security Forces.\n\nWorld leaders and leaders in nearby countries condemned the attack on the Parliament, including Pakistan. On 14 December, the ruling Indian National Democratic Alliance blamed Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) for the attack. Home Minister L.K. Advani claimed, \"we have received some clues about yesterday's incident, which shows that a neighboring country, and some terrorist organisations active there are behind it,\" in an indirect reference to Pakistan and Pakistan-based militant groups. The same day, in a \"demarche\" to Pakistan's High Commissioner to India, Ashraf Jehangir Qazi, India demanded that Pakistan stop the activities of LeT and JeM, that Pakistan apprehend the organisation's leaders and that Pakistan curb the financial assets and the group's access to these assets. In response to the Indian government's statements, Pakistan ordered its military on standing high alert the same day.\n\nThe Pakistan military's information sources, the ISPR's spokesman Major-General Rashid Qureshi, claimed that the Parliament attack was a \"drama staged by Indian intelligence agencies to defame the freedom struggle in 'occupied Kashmir'\" and further warned that India would pay \"heavily if they engage in any misadventure\".\n\nOn 20 December, amid calls from the United States, Russia, and the United Nations to exercise restraint, India mobilised and deployed its troops to Kashmir and the Indian part of the Punjab in what was India's largest military mobilization since the 1971 conflict. The Indian codename for the mobilization was Operation Parakram (Sanskrit: \"Valor\").\n\nThe troop deployment to India's western border was expected to take three to four weeks, accordingly the military action involving a limited offensive against the terrorists' training camps in Pak administered Kashmir was planned by the Indian Cabinet Committee on Security for the second week of January 2002. It would start with air strike by IAF's Tiger Squadron to attack zones with large concentration of camps. Special forces of the Indian army would then launch a limited ground offensive to further neutralise the terrorist camps and help to occupy the dominant positions on the LoC. 14 January 2002, was decided as the tentative D-day.\n\nAccording to the Indian strategy a limited strike in the Pakistan administered Kashmir was preferred as it would convey the Indian resolve to Pakistan and yet keep the international retribution levels that are manageable. Indian actions would then be comparable to the, ongoing US offensive in Afghanistan against Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaida terrorists.\n\nThe CCS had weighed in the possibility of Pakistan launching an all-out offensive as a response to the Indian strikes. The intelligence assessment suggested that the Pakistani Army was not well prepared. This further minimized the chances of Pakistan launching a full-scale war. The Indian plans were strengthened by a strong economy with low inflation, high petroleum and forex reserves. Finance minister Yashwant Sinha announced that the Indian economy was prepared for a war, in spite of being the final option. The limited strike served as a tactical option. The troop build-up signalled \"India's seriousness\" to the international community and the USA. If Pakistan's strategy did not change then India would have no other option.\n\nIn late December, both countries moved ballistic missiles closer to each other's border, and mortar and artillery fire was reported in Kashmir. By January 2002, India had mobilized around 500,000 troops and three armored divisions on the Pakistan's border concentrated along the Line of Control in Kashmir. Pakistan responded similarly, deploying around 300,000 troops to that region. The tensions were partially diffused after Musharraf's speech on 12 January promising action on terror emanating from Pakistan.\n\nIndia initiated its diplomatic offensive by recalling Indian high commissioner and the civilian flights from Pakistan were banned.\n\nPakistan picked up the war signals and began mobilisation of its military and initiated diplomatic talks with the US President George W. Bush. American Secretary of State Colin Powell engaged with India and Pakistan to reduce tensions. In the first week of January, British Prime Minister Tony Blair visited India with a message that he was pressurising Pakistani President Musharraf. USA declared LeT and JeM as foreign terrorist groups.\n\nOn January 8 2002, Indian Home Minister L. K. Advani visited the US, where he was informed about the contents of the upcoming landmark speech by Musharraf. On 12 January 2002, President Pervez Musharraf gave a speech intended to reduce tensions with India. He for the first time condemned the attack on Parliament as a terrorist attack and compared it with the September 11 attacks. He declared in his speech that terrorism was unjustified in the name of Kashmir and Pakistan would combat extremism on its own soil. Pakistan would resolve Kashmir with dialogue and no organisation will be allowed to carry out terrorism \"under the pretext of Kashmir\". As demanded by India, he also announced plans for the regulation of madarsas and banning the known terrorist groups that were operating out of Pakistan. He announced a formal ban on five jihadi organizations, that included Jaish-e-Muhammad and Lashkar-e-Taiba engaged in militancy in Kashmir.\n\nThe Indian Prime Minister though skeptic of the seriousness of Musharraf's pledges, decided not to carry out the military attack planned for January 14.\n\nApart from Musharraf's speech there was another factor that postponed the CCS plans of an immediate war. Pakistan had removed most of terrorist training camps from Pakistan administered Kashmir in January; this meant that to achieve militarily significant results the Indian forces would have to cross the international border. This would have been risky as it would show India as an aggressor and could have invited global intervention on Kashmir. It was decided by CCS to give Musharraf another chance but the armed forces were kept fully mobilised for war.\n\nTensions escalated significantly in May. On 14 May, three suicidal terrorists attacked an Army camp at Kaluchak near Jammu and killed 34 people and injured fifty more before getting killed, most of the victims were the wives and children of Indian soldiers serving in Kashmir. The terrorist incident again revived the chance of a full blown war. \n\nOn 15 May, PM Vajpayee was quoted in the Indian Parliament saying \"Hamein pratikar karna hoga ( We will have to counter it).\" American Foreign Minister Armitage quoted the incident as a trigger for further deterioration of the situation. \n\nIndian Cabinet had little belief that diplomatic pressure could stop Pakistan's support for the militants in Kashmir. India accused Pakistan that it was failing to keep its promise on ending the cross-border terrorism. Musharraf's follow-up to his speech on January 12th was observed by India as weak and disingenuous. Pakistan did not extradite the terrorist leaders demanded by India, and Lashkar was allowed to continue its operations in Pakistan as a charity with a new name. During the spring, jihadi militants started crossing the Line of Control again. \n\nOn May 18, Vajpayee reviewed the preparedness with the Defence Minister Fernandez, Director-General Military Operations and Military Intelligence Chief. The CCS met and favoured taking military action against terrorists in Pakistan. A limited military action similar to the one planned in January was not considered viable as Pakistan had strengthened its forces on the LoC. Any action limited to Pakistan administered Kashmir would only have limited military gains. Indian military favoured an offensive along the Indo-Pak border that will stretch the Pakistani troops and provide India an access to Pakistan administered Kashmir. \n\nThe Indian armed forces accordingly prepared the plan to target the war waging capabilities of Pakistan and destroy the terrorist camps. The battle canvas planned for June was larger than the one planned in January. The Indian Air Force along with 1 Strike Corps of Indian would initiate attack in Shakargarh bulge to engage Pakistan's Army Reserve North (ARN) that was spread from Muzaffarabad to Lahore. This would engage Pakistan's key strike corp while Indian strike formations from Eastern command would carry out the offensive at the Line of Control and capture the strategic positions used by the terrorists for infiltrations. The period considered was between 23 May and 10 June.\n\nDuring the end of May 2002, the Indian and Pakistani armed forces continued to be fully mobilized. The tenor of statements published in the Indian press and intelligence information collected, pointed to an imminent invasion by India. An SOS was sent to Israel by the Indian Defence Ministry for defence supplies during the month of June confirmed the intelligence. \n\nOn 18 May, India expelled the Pakistani High Commissioner. That same day, thousands of villagers had to flee Pakistani artillery fire in Jammu. On 21 May, clashes killed six Pakistani soldiers and 1 Indian soldier, as well as civilians from both sides. On 22 May, Indian Prime Minister Vajpayee announced to his troops to prepare for a \"decisive battle\".\n\nBetween May 25 and 28, Pakistan conducted 3 missile tests. India reviewed its nuclear capability to strike back. On 7 June the Pakistan Air Force shot down an Indian unmanned aerial vehicle near Lahore. \n\nAs both India and Pakistan are armed with nuclear weapons, the possibility a conventional war could escalate into a nuclear one was raised several times during the standoff. Various statements on this subject were made by Indian and Pakistani officials during the conflict, mainly concerning a no first use policy. Indian External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh said on 5 June that India would not use nuclear weapons first, while Musharraf said on 5 June he would not renounce Pakistan's right to use nuclear weapons first. There was also concern that a 6 June 2002 asteroid explosion over Earth, known as the Eastern Mediterranean Event, could have caused a nuclear conflict had it exploded over India or Pakistan.\n\nVajpayee contacted the leaders of the global community including Bush, Blair, Russian President Vladimir Putin and French President Jacques Chirac and informed them Musharraf could not deliver on his January 12 speech and the patience of the country was running out. In the diplomacy that followed, Bush, Putin, Blair and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi requested Vajpayee to avoid taking the extreme step. The global community informed India that it would negotiate with Musharraf to clarify his position on stopping of the cross-border infiltration. \n\nAttempts to defuse the situation continued. The Russian President Vladimir Putin tried to mediate a solution, but in vain. \n\nRestraint was urged by the global community as there were fears that Pakistan would proceed to use its nuclear weapons in the face to counter its conventional asymmetry as compared to the Indian armed forces. In April, in an interview to German magazine Der Spiegel Musharraf had already hinted that he was willing to use nukes against India. Pakistan's nuclear threats led to US Secretary of State Powell contacting Musharraf at five occasions in the last week of May and reading the riot act.\n\nOn 5 June American Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage visited Pakistan. He asked Musharraf if he would \"permanently\" end cross-border infiltration and help to dismantle the infrastructure used for terrorism. On June 6 Musharraf 's commitment was conveyed to Powell, and to India after his arrival. On June 10, Powell announced Musharraf's promise to the global community. After which India called off its strike plans.\n\nA full-frontal invasion would have translated into war. Political logic implied it was better to give another chance to Musharraf. The military build-up on the border by India in January and June had forced both the international community and Pakistan into action.\n\nOn July 29, 2002 for the first time after the end of Kargil war India used air power to attack positions held by the Pakistani forces at Loonda Post on the Indian side of the Line of Control in the Machil sector. Eight IAF Mirage 2000 H aircraft dropped precision-guided bombs weighing 1,000-pounds to destroy four bunkers that were occupied by Pakistan. The forward trenches prepared by Indian troops in earlier years were also occupied by the Pakistani forces and 155-millimetre Bofors howitzers were used to hit them. According to Indian military intelligence officials at least 28 Pakistani soldiers were killed in the fighting. The air assault was conducted in daylight and to demonstrate India's willingness to escalate the conflict in response to provocations.\n\nPakistani army troops stationed near the post in Kupwara sector's Kel area of the LOC had been shelling the Indian positions across the LOC. India suspected a troop build up situation near the border post that was similar to Kargil. Indian army planned a retaliation by sending troops to attack the Pakistani posts. After deliberations with the then Army Chief, General Sundararajan Padmanabhan, the plan was modified and instead of only a ground assault, the decision was made to first attack Pakistani positions using the IAF jets followed by a ground assault by the Indian Special Forces. At 1:30 pm on 2 August, IAF's No. 1 Tiger Squadron of Mirage 2000 H fighter aircraft loaded with laser guided weapons bombed the Pakistani bunkers located in the Kel. The attack destroyed the bunkers with an unknown number of casualty. Pakistani troops then opened heavy artillery fire on the Indian posts. The Indian Special forces then followed up to kill the remaining Pakistani soldiers.\n\nWhile tensions remained high throughout the next few months, both governments began easing the situation in Kashmir. By October 2002, India had begun to demobilize their troops along her border and later Pakistan did the same, and in November 2003 a cease-fire between the two nations was signed.\n\nThe standoff inflicted heavy casualties. The total Indian casualties were 789–1,874 killed. Many accidents during the mobilisation were due to the poor quality of mines and fuses Around 100 of these fatalities were from mine laying operations. Artillery duels with Pakistan, vehicle accidents, and other incidents make up the rest.\n\nThe Indian cost for the buildup was while Pakistan's was $1.4 billion. The standoff led to a total of 155,000 Indians and 45,000 Pakistanis displaced, per Pakistani media estimates.\n\nAfter the deescalation and the substantial diplomatic mediation, the Indian government, however, learned the seriousness of the military suspension by Pakistan in the region. Adjustments and development on offensive doctrine, \"Cold Start\", was carried out by India as an aftermath of the war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43697278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43697278", "title": "Andriy Valentinov", "text": "Andriy Valentinov\n\nAndriy Valentinov (Ukrainian: Андрій Валентинов, Russian: Андрей Валентинов; born March 18, 1958) is the pen name of Ukrainian science/fantasy fiction writer Andrey Valentinovich Shmalko. He resides in Kharkiv, Ukraine, and writes in Russian. Valentinov collaborates with other Russophone Ukrainian writers, such as H. L. Oldie and Marina and Sergey Dyachenko.\n\nValentinov's genre is often defined as cryptohistory. He is the author of 40 novels, about 50 stories and more than 60 essays about the problems of contemporary speculative literature. He has 164 science fiction and fantasy literary awards. At Eurocon 2013 in Kyiv, the European Science Fiction Society named Valentinov Europe's best writer of 2013.\n\nValentinov is a historian and archaeologist, Associate Professor at Kharkiv National University.\n\nAndrey Shmalko was born in Kharkiv, Soviet Ukraine, on March 18, 1958. He began writing poetry in 1970, and wrote his first novel while at school. His first pen name was Alexander Nexø. From 1978 till early 2000s he was participating in different archaeological expeditions exploring the sites of Khazar culture, Scythian burial mounds, Genoese castle and especially his favourite Chersonesus, an ancient Greek colony founded approximately 2,500 years ago in the south-western part of the Crimean Peninsula.\n\nIn 1980 he graduated from Kharkiv National University and became a school teacher of history. From 1982 till 1985 he was a post-graduate student at the Department of Ancient and Medieval History of Kharkiv National University. In 1985 he defended his PhD dissertation in Ancient History, \"Roman Policy in the Southern Black Sea Region in the 1st Century BC\". From 1985 to 1992 he taught history at Kharkiv University of Arts, also known as the Kharkiv Conservatory, where he introduced the first course of the Bible Studies in Ukraine that used to be a primarily atheistic state during the Soviet times.\n\nIn 1992 he finished his novel \"The Oversteps\", which was published in 1995 under the pen name of Andrey Valentinov.\n\nValentinov is married.\n\nValentinov creates his fictional world with the help of the repeating themes, images and motifs. One of them is about the people or race of Dhars (other names: Dars, Dergs, Logres and Chugs; Russian: дхары, дары, дэрги, логры, чуги). The etymology of their names might be Aryan (Dhars or Dars, compare with the Slavic \"dar\" – gift, talent), Eastern (Dergs), Celtic (Logres, also Logris or Loegria is the name of King Arthur's realm) or Slavic (chugs as diminutive for chugaisters or chugasters, kind wood goblins for Western Ukrainians living in the Carpathians). According to Valentinov, they are ambiguous creatures: half human, half bearlike, whose origin is very ancient and mysterious. The Dhars live in different places of the world and are endangered because of many enemies, from ignorant cruel people to the evil forces. They keep ancient secret knowledge and have psychic abilities. They usually look like humans, but some of them can transform into werebears. The Dhars might be the descendants of fallen angels and human females. Valentinov suggests that King Arthur whose name meant “bear” was one of them. They are presented in many Valentinov's books, especially in the Logrian series and \"The Eye of Power\" Series.\n\nMycenaean Series (Russian: Микенский цикл)\nThe events take place in Ancient Greece.\n\n\nOriya Cycle (Russian: Цикл «Ория»)\nThe historical and mythological fantasy based on the Eastern European history of the Migration Period.\n\n\nThe Eye of Power Series (Russian: цикл «Око силы»)\nThe famous cycle is based on the Russian history of the 20th century.\n\n1996 The first trilogy (1920-1921):\n\n1997 The second trilogy (1937-1938):\n\n1995-1997 The third trilogy (1991-1992):\n\n2010-2011 The fourth trilogy (1924):\n\nThe Logres (Russian: Логры)\n\n\n1998 \"The Boundary\" (Russian: «Рубеж»; in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie and Marina and Sergey Dyachenko). \nThe alternative fantasy world, fictional Gogol’s Ukraine of the 16-18th centuries and the Cabbalistic cosmogony are presented. \n\nSpartacus Series (Russian: Спартаковский цикл)\nThe history of Rome in the 1st century BC and especially the slave uprising are analyzed from the alternative perspective\n\n\nDilogy 1999 \"We Are to Live Here\" (Russian: «Нам здесь жить», written in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie):\nThe dystopian events take place in the post-apocalyptic City that resembles Kharkiv, Ukraine, the native city of the authors.\n\n2006 \"Shooter\" (Russian: «Тирмен», written in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie)\nModern Kharkiv, Ukraine, and the events in different countries dated from 1922 till the present time are given through the lenses of the Shooters that are the Knights of the Grand Dame with scythe.\n\n2013 \"Fortress Of My Soul\" (Russian: «Крепость души моей», written in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie)\nThe setting resembles the dilogy \"We Are to Live Here\". The realities of modern City and the Old Testament are intermingled and interconnected.\n\n2005 \"The Pentacle\" (Russian: «Пентакль»): the novel-cycle of 30 short stories, written in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie and Marina and Sergey Dyachenko — Best novel award at the festival \"Star Bridge\" (Kharkiv, Ukraine, 2005).\nThe setting is primarily mystic Ukraine of different times.\n\nThe books of this cycle are based on the idea that there is a parallel universal reality made by our thoughts and dreams named Noosphere or Hypnosphere that is open for some people under some circumstances and allows them to live after death, to travel through time and place and to change the real world where we live.\n\n\n2011 \"Alumen\" (Russian: «Алюмен», written in collaboration with Henry Lion Oldie)\nEuropean technical progress of the 18-19th centuries is presented from the perspective of the metaphysical struggle between the rational scientific and irrational occult forces. \n\nThe Collective Authors’ Cycle \"Commissioner Fuhe’s Adventures\" (Russian: «Похождения комиссара Фухе») \n\n1997 \"Catching the Wind\" (Russian: «Ловля ветра») (collection)\n\n"}
{"id": "53720732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53720732", "title": "Annalisa Marzano", "text": "Annalisa Marzano\n\nAnnalisa Marzano, FRHistS FSA, (born 1969 in New York) is an Italian-American archaeologist and academic. She is Professor of Ancient History at the University of Reading in England, specializing in Roman social and economic history.\n\nMarzano grew up in Positano and attended the Liceo Classico P. Virgilio Marone in Meta di Sorrento. She received her Bachelor's and master's degrees in Classics (Laurea in Lettere Classiche) in 1994 with honours (110/110 \"summa cum laude\") from the University of Florence, where she continued her studies with a post-master diploma in ‘Science for the Conservation of Cultural Heritage’ (1996). She then undertook postgraduate research at Columbia University under the supervision of William V. Harris, receiving her Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree in 1999, and completing her Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in 2004, with distinction. Her doctoral thesis was titled ‘Villas and Roman Society in Central Italy: From the Late Republic to the Middle Empire’.\n\nMarzano began her academic career in the UK as research assistant to Prof. Andrew Wilson at the Institute of Archaeology, University of Oxford (2004-2007) and was a member of the research team for the Oxford Roman Economy Project (2005-2008). She was appointed as lecturer in Classics in 2008 and, subsequently, promoted to Reader in 2011 in the Department of Classics at the University of Reading; in 2013 she was appointed Professor of Ancient History. She has been Head of Department (2013–2016) and Director of the Centre for Economic History (2013–2016).\n\nShe has held various fellowships, both in the US and the UK. While at Columbia University she was awarded a Whiting Foundation Dissertation Fellowship (2002-2003). Once at Oxford, she was appointed W. Golding Jr. Research Fellow at Brasenose College (2005 –2008). In 2010 she was Visiting Research Scholar at the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, and was nominated Hugh Last Fellow at the British School at Rome in autumn 2016. In 2016 she has also been awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for the period 2017-2019. She is currently Member of the University Senate and a Member of Council and Trustee for The Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies.\n\nMarzano became a Fellow of the Higher Education Academy in January 2011, and was recognized as Senior Fellow in 2016. \nShe was elected as Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (12/2011) and as Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (10/2013).\nHer book \"Roman Villas in Central Italy: A Social and Economic History\" (Brill 2007) was awarded a Honourable Mention & Silver Medal at the VIII Premio Romanistico Internazionale G. Boulvert, 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1155702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1155702", "title": "Aufidius Bassus", "text": "Aufidius Bassus\n\nAufidius Bassus was a Roman historian who lived in the reign of Tiberius.\n\nHis work, which probably began with the Roman civil wars or the death of Julius Caesar, was continued by Pliny the Elder. Pliny the Elder carried it down at least as far as the end of Nero's reign. Bassus' other historical work was a \"Bellum Germanicum\", which was published before his \"Histories\".\n\nSeneca the Elder speaks highly of Bassus as an historian; however, the fragments preserved in that writer's \"Suasoriae\" (vi. 23) relating to the death of Cicero are characterized by an affected style.\n"}
{"id": "166957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166957", "title": "Ba'ath Party", "text": "Ba'ath Party\n\nThe Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party ( \"\" ) was a political party founded in Syria by Michel Aflaq, Salah al-Din al-Bitar, and associates of Zaki al-Arsuzi. The party espoused Ba'athism (from \"Al-Ba'ath\" or \"Ba'ath\" meaning \"renaissance\" or \"resurrection\"), which is an ideology mixing Arab nationalist, pan-Arabism, Arab socialist, and anti-imperialist interests. Ba'athism calls for unification of the Arab world into a single state. Its motto, \"Unity, Liberty, Socialism\", refers to Arab unity, and freedom from non-Arab control and interference.\n\nThe party was founded by the merger of the Arab Ba'ath Movement, led by Aflaq and al-Bitar, and the Arab Ba'ath, led by al-Arsuzi, on 7 April 1947 as the Arab Ba'ath Party. The party quickly established branches in other Arab countries, although it would only hold power in Iraq and Syria. The Arab Ba'ath Party merged with the Arab Socialist Movement, led by Akram al-Hawrani, in 1952 to form the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party. The newly formed party was a relative success, and became the second-largest party in the Syrian parliament in the 1954 election. This, coupled with the increasing strength of the Syrian Communist Party, led to the establishment of the United Arab Republic (UAR), a union of Egypt and Syria. The union would prove unsuccessful, and a Syrian coup in 1961 dissolved it.\n\nFollowing the break-up of the UAR, the Ba'ath Party was reconstituted. However, during the UAR, military activists had established the Military Committee to take control of the Ba'ath Party from civilian hands. In the meantime, in Iraq, the local Ba'ath Party branch had taken power by orchestrating and leading the Ramadan Revolution, only to lose power a couple of months later. The Military Committee, with Aflaq's consent, took power in Syria in the 8th of March Revolution of 1963.\n\nA power struggle quickly developed between the civilian faction led by Aflaq, al-Bitar, and Munif al-Razzaz and the Military Committee led by Salah Jadid and Hafez al-Assad. As relations between the two factions deteriorated, the Military Committee initiated the 1966 Syrian coup d'état, which ousted the National Command led by al-Razzaz, Aflaq, and their supporters. The 1966 coup split the Ba'ath Party between the Iraqi-dominated Ba'ath movement and the Syrian-dominated Ba'ath movement.\nThe party was founded on 7 April 1947 as the Arab Ba'ath Party by Michel Aflaq (an Antiochian Christian), Salah al-Din al-Bitar (a Sunni Muslim), and the followers of Zaki al-Arsuzi (an atheist) in Damascus, Syria, leading to the establishment of the Syrian Regional Branch. Other regional branches were established throughout the Arab world in the later 1940s and early 1950s, in, among others, Iraq, Yemen and Jordan. Throughout its existence, the National Command (the body responsible for all-Arab affairs), gave most attention to Syrian affairs. The 2nd National Congress was convened in June 1954, and elected a seven-man National Command; Aflaq, Bitar, and Akram al-Hawrani were elected and represented the Syrian Regional Branch, while Abdullah Rimawi and Abdallah Na'was were elected to represent the Jordanian Branch. The congress is notable for sanctioning the merger of the Arab Socialist Movement and the Ba'ath Party, which took place in 1952.\n\nThe Syrian Regional Branch rose to prominence in the 1940s and 1950s; in the 1954 parliamentary elections the Syrian Regional Branch won 22 seats in parliament, becoming the second largest party in the country. 90 percent of Ba'ath Party members who stood for elections were elected to parliament. The failure of the traditional parties represented by the People's Party and the National Party, strengthened the Ba'ath Party's public credibility. Through this position, the party was able to get two of its members into the cabinet; Bitar was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs and Khalil Kallas became Minister of Economics. Its new, strengthened position, was used successfully to garner support for Syria's merger with Gamal Abdel Nasser's Egypt, which led to the establishment of the United Arab Republic (UAR) in 1958.\n\nOn 24 June 1959, Fuad al-Rikabi, the Regional Secretary of the Iraqi Regional Branch, accused the National Command of betraying Arab nationalist principles by conspiring against the UAR. In light of these criticisms, the Ba'ath convened the 3rd National Congress (held 27 August – 1 September 1959), which was attended by delegates from \"Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan, South Arabia, the Gulf, Arab South, Arab Maghreb, Palestine and Party student organisations in Arab and other universities outside the [Arab] homeland\". The congress is notable for endorsing the dissolution of the Syrian Regional Branch, which had been decided by Aflaq and Bitar without inner-party consultation in 1958, and for expelling Rimawi, the Regional Secretary of the Jordanian Regional Branch. Rimawi reacted to his expulsion by forming his own party, the Arab Socialist Revolutionary Ba'ath Party, which established a rival National Command to compete with the original. The National Command responded to the problems in Iraq by appointing a Temporary Regional Command on 2 February 1960, which appointed Talib El-Shibib as Regional Secretary, and on 15 June 1961 the National Command expelled Rikabi from the party.\n\nIn Iraq, the Iraqi Regional Branch had supported Abd al-Karim Qasim's seizure of power and its ensuing abolishment of the Iraqi Monarchy. The Iraqi Ba'athists supported Qasim on the ground that they believed he would enter Iraq into the UAR, enlarging the Arab nationalist republic. However, this was proven to be a ruse, and after taking power Qasim launched an Iraq first policy. In retaliation, the Ba'ath Party tried to assassinate Qasim in February 1959, but the operation (which was led by a young Saddam Hussein) failed. Qasim was overthrown in the Ramadan Revolution led by young Ba'athist officer Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr, and rumoured to be supported by the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Declassified documents and the testimony of former CIA officers indicate there was no direct American involvement, although the CIA had been previously notified of an earlier Ba'athist coup plot in July 1962 by a high-ranking informant within the Party. The CIA official working with Archie Roosevelt, Jr. on a separate plan to instigate a military coup against Qasim, and who later became the head of the CIA's operations in Iraq and Syria \"from late 1968 to June 1970,\" has \"denied any involvement in the Ba'ath Party's actions.\" The Iraqi Regional Branch, when it took power, was so riven by factionalism that its purported allies launched a counter-coup forcing them out of power in November 1963.\n\nThe 4th National Congress, held in August 1960, criticized the leadership of Aflaq and Bitar, called for the reestablishment of the Syrian Regional Branch and deemphasized the party's commitment to Arab nationalism while emphasizing more the socialist character of the party. A year after, at the UAR's nadir in Syria, the Syrian General Abd al-Karim al-Nahlawi launched a coup on 28 September 1961, which led to the reestablishment of the Syrian Arab Republic.\n\nThe challenges of building a Ba'athist state led to considerable ideological discussion and internal struggle within the party. The Iraqi Regional Branch was increasingly dominated by Ali Salih al-Sadi, a self-described Marxist. He was supported in his ideological reorientation by Hammud al-Shufi, the Regional Secretary of the Syrian Regional Branch, Yasin al-Hafiz, one of the party’s few ideological theorists, and by certain members of the secret Military Committee. The Marxist-wing gained new ground at the 6th National Congress (held in October 1963), in which the Iraqi and Syrian regional branches called for the establishment of \"socialist planning\", \"collective farms run by peasants\", \"workers' democratic control of the means of production\", and other demands reflecting a certain emulation of Soviet-style socialism. Aflaq, angry at this transformation of his party, retained a nominal leadership role, but the National Command as a whole came under the control of the radicals.\n\nIn 1963 the Ba'ath Party seized power, from then on the Ba'ath functioned as the only officially recognized Syrian political party, but factionalism and splintering within the party led to a succession of governments and new constitutions. On 23 February 1966, a coup d'état led by Salah Jadid, the informal head of the Military Committee, overthrew Aflaq and the Bitar's cabinet. The coup sprung out of factional rivalry between Jadid's \"regionalist\" (qutri) camp, which promoted ambitions for a Greater Syria and the more traditionally pan-Arab, in power faction, called the \"nationalist\" (qawmi) faction. Jadid's supporters are considered more left-wing then Aflaq and his peers. Several of Jadid's opponents managed to make their escape and fled to Beirut, Lebanon. Jadid moved the party in a more radical direction. Although he and his supporters had not been supporters of the victorious far-left line at the 6th Party Congress, they had now moved to adopt its positions. The moderate faction, formerly led by Aflaq and al-Bitar, were purged from the party.\n\nWhile it took some years, the 1966 coup resulted in the creation of two competing National Commands, one Syrian-dominated and another Iraqi-dominated. However, both in Iraq and Syria, the Regional Command became the real centre of party power, and the membership of the National Command became a largely honorary position, often the destination of figures being eased out of the leadership. A consequence of the split was that Zaki al-Arsuzi took Aflaq's place as the official father of Ba'athist thought in the pro-Syrian Ba'ath movement, while the pro-Iraqi Ba'ath movement still considered Aflaq the \"de jure\" father of Ba'athist thought.\n\nThe organizational structure of the Ba'ath Party was created at the 2nd National Congress by amending the party's Internal Regulations (), which was approved at the party's 1st National Congress in 1947. The organizational structure ran from top to bottom, and members were forbidden to initiate contacts between groups on the same level of the organisation—all contacts had to pass through a higher command level.\n\nThe National Command was the ruling organ of the party between sessions of the National Congress, and was headed by a Secretary-General. Between National Congresses, the National Command was held accountable by the National Consultative Council (Arabic: \"al-majlis al-istishari al-quami\"). The National Consultative Council was a forum made up of representatives from the party's regional branches. However, the number of National Consultative Council members were decided by the size of the regional branch. The National Congress elected the National Command, National Tribunal, the party's discipline body, and the Secretary-General, the party leader. The congress delegates determined the party's policies and procedures.\n\nBefore 1954, the party was ruled by the Executive Committee, but this organ, along with others too, were replaced at the 2nd National Congress. In Ba'athist jargon \"Nation\" means the Arab Nation, because of that, the National Command formed the highest policy-making and coordinating council for the Ba'ath movement throughout the Arab world. The National Command had several bureaus, similar to those of the Regional Command. National Command sessions were held monthly. Of these, the National Liaisons Office was responsible for maintaining contact with the party's Regional Branches.\n\nThe term \"region\" reflected the Party's refusal to acknowledge them as separate nation-states. A \"Region\" (\"quṭr\"), in Ba'athist parlance, is an Arab state such as Syria, Iraq, or Lebanon. The Regional Congress, which combined all the provincial branches, was the region's highest authority and elected a Regional Command, the party leadership in a specific region, the Regional Tribunal, the body responsible for discipline inspection, and a Regional Secretary, the regional party leader. The Regional Congress is made of delegates from the provincial branches; other members attended, but as observers. The Regional Congress was responsible for evaluating the party's performance since the last Regional Congress, while at the same time formulating new policies for the next period, which lasts until the next Regional Congress is held. How long this period lasts is decided by the Regional Command. The Regional Command, similar to the Branch Command, operated through bureaus and met for weekly-sessions.\n\nBelow the Regional Commands there existed branches. The Branch came above the Subbranch; it comprised at least two to five subbranches, and operated at the provincial level. The branch held a congress periodically in which it elected a Command and a Secretary (leader). The Command operated through bureaus, such as the Workers Bureau and the Bureau of the Secretariat for instance. Underneath the branch was the Subbranch, which was made up of three to five sections, \"and was the lowest level of the party to hold a periodical Congress.\" Some subbranches were independent of central authority, and elected their own Command and secretaries, while other subbranches were incorporated into the Branches. In these cases the Subbranch Secretary is appointed by the superior Branch.\n\nA Section, which comprised two to five Divisions, functioned at the level of a large city quarter, a town, or a rural district. It elected its own Command, composed of five members, but the Subbranch appointed the Command's secretary. Below that there existed divisions. A division comprised two to seven Circles, controlled by a Division Commander. Such Ba'athist groups occurred throughout the bureaucracy and the military. They functioned as the Party’s watchdog and were an effective form of covert surveillance within a public administration. The lowest level was the circle. It was composed of three to seven members, constituted the basic organizational unit.\n\nThe Military Organization was made up of branches similar to those in the Ba'ath's civilian sector. However, unlike the civilian sector the Military Organization was controlled by a separate Military Bureau, and held periodical Military Congresses. The Military Organization and the Civilian Organization converged at the Regional Congress.\n\nThere existed three types of membership categories in the Ba'ath Party; Active member (Arabic: udw ämil), Apprentice Member (Arabic: udw mutadarrib) and Supporter (Arabic: firqa). An Active member had to attend all formal meetings of his party unit, was given the right to vote in party elections, and could run for party office. In the Syrian Regional Branch a member had to spend 18 months as a Supporter to be promoted to Apprentice status, and then wait another 18 months to be promoted to Active member status.\n\nFrom its very beginning, the party was a manifestation of Arab nationalist thought, with the party itself referring to itself as \"The Party of Arab Unity\". The party's ideology also excluded and subjugated regional minorities like the Kurds, Turkmens, Assyrians and others. The pan-Arab tendencies of the party's predecessor, the Arab Ba'ath Movement, was strengthened 1945–1947 by recruiting members from the Zaki al-Arsuzi's Arab Ba'ath. The first article of the party's constitution stated \"the Arabs form one nation. This nation has the natural right to live in a single state. [As such,] the Arab fatherland constitutes an indivisible political and economic unit. No Arab can live apart from the others.\"\n\nTo express his heartfelt belief in Arab nationalism, Aflaq coined the term \"one Arab nation with an eternal message\" (). Party ideology, and Ba'athism in general, was not based on concepts such as the purity of the Arab race or ethnic chauvinism, but on idealistic thoughts borrowed from the enlightenment era. According to Middle East expert Tabitha Petran, the basic idea of the party's ideology was;\nthat the Arab nation is a permanent entity in history. The Arab nation is considered, philosophically speaking, not as a social and economic formation, but as a transcendent fact inspiring different forms, one of its highest contributions taking the form of Islam. It was not Islam that modeled the peoples of Arabia, the Fertile Crescent, and North Africa, equipping them with Islamic values, especially the Arabic language and the Arabic culture, but the Arab nation which created Islam. This conception of the Arab nation implicitly advantages the Arab contribution to history. On the other hand, Arab decadence can be overcome through a purifying and spiritual action, not religious but moral.\"\nThe early Ba'ath gave little attention to the problems facing the peasants and workers. As Hanna Batatu notes, \"Aflaq was basically urban in outlook. The peasants never constituted an object of his special concern. In his writing there is scarcely an expression of concentrated interest in the country's husbandsmen.\" While peasants and issues facing them are mentioned in some of Aflaq's work, there was scarcely any depth given to them or the issues facing them. To take an example, in one instance Aflaq states \"the [national struggle] ... can only be based on the generality of the Arabs and these will not take part in it if they are exploited.\" Secondly, Aflaq never had any official enmity towards the traditional landlords. Issues such as these would only gain prominence when Akram al-Hawrani became a leading party figure, and when the \"transitional Ba'athists\" took power. Of the four members in the 1st Executive Committee, Wahib al-Ghanim was the only who paid much attention to the problems of the peasants and workers, because the other members (Aflaq, Salah al-Din al-Bitar and Jalil al-Sayyide) had a middle class upbringing and upheld middle class values.\n\nThe early party organization never cultivated a deep following in rural areas. In fact, at the party's founding congress, only one peasant and one worker were present among the 217 delegates. Most of the delegates were either school teacher or students attending universities. When the Akram al-Hawrani's Arab Socialist Party (ASP) merged with the Ba'ath Party, the majority of ASP members of peasants origins did not join the Ba'ath Party, instead becoming personal followers of Hawrani. However, the majority of Ba'ath members were of rural upbringing. The \"Transitional Ba'ath\", which grew out of the dissolution of the Syrian Regional Branch in 1958 dissolution and the Military Committee, were more rural in outlook, policy and ideology.\n\nThe slogan \"Unity, liberty, socialism\" is the key tenet in Ba'athist thought. Unity stood for the creation of an independent, strong Arab Nation. Liberty did not mean liberal democracy, but rather freedom from colonial oppression and freedom of speech and thought. Aflaq believed that the Ba'ath Party, at least in theory, would rule, and guide the people, in a transitional period of time without consulting the people, however he did support intra-party democracy. The last tenet, 'socialism', did not mean socialism as it is defined in the West, but rather a unique form of Arab socialism. According to Ba'athist thought, socialism had originated under the rule of Muhammad. The original interpretation of Arab socialism did not answer questions such as: how much state control was necessary, or economic equality; but instead focused on freeing the Arab Nation and its people from colonization and oppression in general.\n\nAfter the failure of the United Arab Republic (UAR), a union of Egypt and Syria, the Ba'ath Party was divided into two main factions, the Regionalists () and the Nationalists (pan-Arab) (). When the union with Egypt collapsed, the Ba'ath Party was put in a difficult position, the party still sought Arab unity, but did not oppose the UAR's dissolution and did not want to seek another union with Egypt under Gamal Abdel Nasser's rule. However, being the unionist party that it was, the party's leaders could not state their position on this issue. The end result was that the pro-Arab nationalists within the Ba'ath Party became committed Nasserists, while the more moderate Arab nationalists founded the pro-Nasserite Socialist Unionists party. The third group, led by people disenchanted with both Nasser and the union period, remained in the Ba'ath Party, stopped believing in the feasibility pan-Arabism. on 21 February 1962, the National Command issued a new policy regarding the pan-Arab project by first mentioning the successes and failures of the UAR, but ending the statement by calling for the reestablishment of the UAR as a decentralized federal union with Nasser's Egypt. Many rank-and-file members opposed this change in policy, with many members being both disenchanted with pan-Arabism and Aflaq's continued party rule.\n\nWhen the Syrian Regional Branch was reestablished, the majority of its members in the provinces were of communal origins–Druze, Alawi or Ismaili. The provincial party members had not been told of the Syrian Regional Branch's dissolution, which in fact broke the communication line with provincial branches and the National Command. While its true that in 1962 the Regionalists supported the slogan, adopted at the 5th National Congress, \"the renewal of the union with Egypt while taking note of past mistakes\", they treated such a slogan as a propaganda slogan, and not as a feasible goal.\n\nThe disillusionment felt among party members on the pan-Arab project, led to the radicalization of the party's interpretation of socialism. Yasin al-Hafiz, a former member of the Syrian Communist Party, was an early frontrunner for the party's radicalization. While he didn't oppose the pan-Arab project, he wanted to turn the concept of Arab socialism into a scientific and revolutionary socialist ideology which adapted Marxism to local conditions. Jamal al-Atassi, who had been a moderate socialist for most of his life, called for the renunciation of Arab socialism in 1963 and the adoption of a \"virtually Maxist concept of socialism\" by claiming that class struggle was the moving force in society.\n\nHammud al-Shufi became the leader of the party's Marxist faction during his short stint as Syrian Regional Secretary, literally the head of the Syrian Regional Organization. Shufi was able, due to his position as head of the Organization Bureau of the Regional Command, to recruit several Marxist or Marxist-leaning members to the top of the Syrian Regional party hierarchy. Radical socialists led by Ali Salih al-Sadi took control of the Iraqi Regional Branch in 1963, which led to the official radicalization of the party's ideology.\n\nThe delegates at the 6th National Congress elected an Ideology Committee that was responsible to write a charter about the party's ideology. The end result was the document \"Points of Departure\". The document, which was approved by the 6th National Congress, relegated Arab unity to a secondary role and gave socialism prominence. Marxists concepts were used interchangeably alongside Ba'athist ones, however, the document was reluctant in explicitly admitting that certain ideas were of Marxist origins. While the \"Points of Departure\" didn't exist a break with party's traditional ideology, it criticized the party's old guard for given Arab unity primary over socialism and their failing in turning Ba'athism into a comprehensive theory. While the documents says Arab unity is progressive, the reason for it being important changed. The document stated; \"Arab unity is an indispensable basis for the construction of a socialist economy.\" Aflaq's also believed that Arab unity was only an intermediate goal, but it stood at the centre of classical Ba'athism. In the Points of Departure, despite not firmly stating it, the goal of creating a socialist society seemed to be both an immediate goal and the main goal of the party.\n\nThe concept of Arab socialism, accused of being narrow-minded and nationalistic, was replaced with the \"Arab road to socialism\" concept. The Points of Departure criticized the classical Ba'athist view regarding private ownership. Classical Ba'athists supported private ownership as a way to recruit into the party many petty bourgeois elements. The document called for nationalization of the commanding heights of the economy, the slow incorporation of the petty bourgeoisie into the socialist economy and the elimination of the national bourgeoisie and its allied classes. To safeguard the party from evolving into one supporting state capitalism, the socialist economy would be controlled by a vanguard party together with popular participation from the toiler masses.\n\nNeo-Ba'athism is a term used to describe the dramatic changes that manifested in Ba'athist ideology from 1960 to 1964, and the Military Committee's takeover of the Syrian Regional Branch and the National Command in the period 1964 to 1966. The 6th National Congress signified the takeover of the party by an anti-militarist left, which opposed both the traditional leaders in the National Command and the pragmatists in the Military Committee. When the anti-military left called for popular democracy, no involvement of the military in national politics and popular struggle, the Military Committee became concerned. By 1965 the anti-military leftists began to \"spread rumors about the rightist character of the military junta [Military Committee] within the party and their subversive efforts to engulf it. There was not a single officer in the party who was not accused of conspiracy and reactionary tendencies.\" In collaboration with the National Command the Military Committee succeeded in expelling the anti-military left from the party at the 7th National Congress. The Military Committee, which now controlled the Syrian Regional Branch, took control of the Ba'ath Party in the coup of 1966. According to Middle East expert Avraham Ben-Tzur \"the [neo-]Ba'th in its latest variant is a bureaucratic apparatus headed by the military, whose daily life and routine are shaped by the rigid military oppression on the home front, and [Soviet aid among others] military aid.\"\n\nFuad al-Rikabi founded the Iraqi Regional Branch in 1951 or 1952. There are those who trace the branch's founding to Abd ar Rahman ad Damin and Abd al Khaliq al Khudayri in 1947, after their return from the 1st National Congress, which was held in Syria. Another version is that the branch was established in 1948 by Rikabi and Sa'dun Hamadi, a Shia Muslim. However, Efraim Karsh and Inari Rautsi contend that the Regional Branch was established in the 1940s, but that it received official recognition as a Regional Branch of the Ba'ath Party in 1952 by the National Command. What is certain is that Rikabi was elected the Regional Branch's first Regional Secretary in 1952.\n\nThe party initially consisted of a majority of Shia Muslims, as Rikabi recruited supporters mainly from his friends and family, but slowly became Sunni dominated. The Regional Branch, and other parties of pan-Arab inclination, had difficulties in recruiting Shia members. Most Shi'ites considered pan-Arab ideology as a Sunni project, since the majority of Arabs are Sunnis.\n\nAt the time of 14 July Revolution in 1958, which overthrew the Hashemite monarchy, the Regional Branch had 300 members. The Iraqi Regional Branch supported Abd al-Karim Qasim's rule on the grounds that he would seek Iraq's entry into the United Arab Republic. Of the 16-members of Qasim's cabinet, 12 of them were Regional Branch members. After taking power, Qasim's change his position on the UAR, reverting to the old \"Iraq first policy\". This turn displeased the Regional Branch and other Arab nationalists groups. Because of his policy reversal, the Regional Branch gathered a group, led by Saddam Hussein, which tried but failed to assassinate Qasim.\n\nThe Regional Branch seized power in the Ramadan Revolution. The coup was led by leading Regional Branch member Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr. The plotters appointed Abdul Salam Arif, a Nasserite, to the Presidency while al-Bakr was appointed the country's Prime Minister. However, real power was in the hands of Ali Salih al-Sadi, the branch's Regional Secretary. After taking power, the Regional Branch through its militia, the National Guard, initiated what Iraqi expert Con Coughlin referred to as an \"orgy of violence\" against communist and left-wing elements. These repressive measures coupled with factionalism within the Regional Branch led to the November 1963 Iraqi coup d'état by President Arif and his Nasserite supporters. Iraq expert Malik Mufti believes Aflaq may have supported Arif's coup because it weakened al-Sadi's position within the party and strengthened his own. The coup forced the branch to go underground. Because of the coup, several leading Ba'athist were jailed, such as al-Bakr and Saddam. Despite this, the Regional Branch elected al-Bakr as Regional Secretary in 1964.\n\nFollowing the party's establishment in Syria, Ba'athist ideas spread throughout the Arab world. In Jordan Ba'athist thought first spread to the East Bank in the late-1940s, most notably at universities. While the Regional Branch was not formed until 1951, several meetings took place at the universities where students and professors alike would discuss the Ba'athist thought. Despite the ideology being very popular, it took time before the actual Regional Branch was established. A group of teachers established the Regional Branch in the city by Al-Karak. At the very beginning, the clinic owned by Abd al-Rahman Shuqyar was used as the branch's meeting place. Bahjat Abu Gharbiyah became the Regional Branch's first member in the West Bank, and was thus resigned the responsibility of building the party's organization in the area the branch secretary in the West Bank, and was thus responsible in that area. In the West Bank, the branch was most active in the cities of Jerusalem and Ramallah.\n\nThe 1st Regional Congress was held in 1951 in the home of Abdullah Rimawi. The congress mapped out the \"future course of the party\". The next year, the 2nd Regional Congress was held, this time in Abdallah Na'was' home. It elected a Regional Command and appointed Rimawi as the branch's Regional Secretary. Shugyar, Gharbiyah and Na'was agreed to serve in the Regional Branch's Central Committee. Rimawi and Na'was, his deputy, would prove effective leaders. Shortly after the 2nd Regional Congress, the branch launched a successful recruitment campaign in Jordanian and Palestinian neighbourhoods and cities. On 28 August 1956 the branch was legalized by a High Court.\n\nBoth Rimawi and Na'was were elected to Parliament in the 1950 and 1951 elections as independents (the branch was not a legal party at the time). In the 1951 election, the branch managed to elect three members to parliament. Rimawi was able to retain his seat in parliament until the 1956 election. None of these elections can be considered democratic. Shuqyar, during the 1951 elections, was imprisoned by the authorities because his views were deemed to radical. Less than a month before the election day, the British Embassy in Amman had estimated that Shuqyar would gain an easy victory. However, because of the undemocratic nature of the election, Shuqyar was not elected. As voting patterns would prove, voters who voted for Ba'athist candidates lived in Irbid and Amman on the East Bank, and Jerusalem and Nablus on the West Bank.\n\nShuqyar during a government-imposed exile to Southern Jordan, used his spare time reading Marxist and Leninist literature. While he never became a communist, Shuqyar began to support communist concepts. On his return from exile he tried to persuade the Regional Branch to join in an electoral front with the Jordanian Communist Party. However, the Regional Branch leaders Rimawi, Na'was, Gharbiyah and Munif al-Razzaz opposed such an idea, and because of it, Shuqyar left the Ba'ath Party.\n\nRimawi and Na'was were elected to the National Command at the 2nd National Congress (held in 1952). At the 6th and 7th National Congress, the Regional Branch elected Razzaz to the National Command.\n\nThe Lebanese Regional Branch was formed in 1949–1950. During the existence of the UAR, the Regional Branch was split into two factions, those supporting Nasser and those opposing him. However, in April 1960, the UAR denied the Regional Branch organ \"As Sahafäh\" access into the UAR-ruled Syria.\n\nThe Regional Branch was strongest in the city of Tripoli. In the 1960 elections, Abd al-Majid al-Rafei was just a few votes short of being elected to parliament. However, a persistent problem for him during his election campaign was the vocal criticism of him and the Regional Branch by the Lebanese Communist Party. In Tripoli the Communists supported the candidacy of Rashid Karami, to ensure themselves of a Regional Branch victory. On 17 July 1961 a group of rival Ba'athists led by Rimawi opened fire on several of the Regional Branch's members.\n\nDuring the UAR years, the same factional lines that developed in the Syrian Regional Branch came to the Lebanese Regional Branch. At the 4th National Congress (held in Lebanon), which was mainly attended by delegates representing Lebanon, several resolutions with a pronounced anti-Nasser tone were approved. At the same time, criticism of Aflaq and Bitar was severe, both their leadership records and their ideology were criticized. A resolution was approved, which stated that the party leaders [Aflaq, al-Bitar among others had to hastily entered into a union with Egypt, had wrongly dissolved the Syrian Regional Branch in 1958, given pan-Arabism primacy when socialism was the more important, the need to use Marxist, not Ba'athi, tools to analyze the current situation and the need for the party to strengthen their positions amongst the popular classes–the workers, peasants, artisans and shopkeepers. Because of the position of the Lebanese Regional Branch, Aflaq at the 5th National Congress invited enough Iraqi Regional Branch delegates to neutralize the Lebanese delegates. However, at the same time, the Lebanese Regional Branch opposed Hawrani and his faction. At the 6th National Congress, the Lebanese Regional Branch elected Jubrän Majdalani and Khalid al-Ali to the National Command.\n\nAt the 7th National Congress the National Command in collaboration with the Military Committee either expelled or removed leftists such as those found in the Lebanese Regional Branch from leadership position, and in the most severe cases, expelled them from the party. The Lebanese Regional Branch managed to elect three members to the National Command at the 7th National Congress; Majdalani, al-Ali and Abd al-Majid Rafi.\n\nThe Regional Branch was founded in the 1950s by Amr Taher Deghayes. Ba'athism was a major political force in Libya following the establishment of the United Arab Republic. Many intellectuals were attracted to Ba'athist ideology during the later years of the Kingdom of Libya. However, with help from Nasserist propaganda, several Ba'athists changed affiliation and became Nasserists instead. The growth of these pan-Arab ideologies concerned the government, which led to the incarceration of several Nasserist and Ba'athist military officers in the early sixties. The Ba'athist were accused of working to overthrow \"the political, economic and social system\" of the Kingdom; the sentences ranged from everything to eight months to two years. By 1964, the Libyan Regional Branch had only managed to establish one-level below the Regional Command, the branch-level. Syrian specialist John Devlin estimated that the Libyan Regional Branch had been 50 and 150 members in 1964.\n\nSyrian politics took a dramatic turn in 1954 when the military government of Adib Shishakli was overthrown and the democratic system restored. The Ba'ath, now a large and popular organisation, won 15 out of 142 parliamentary seats in the Syrian election that year, becoming the second-largest party in parliament. Aside from the Syrian Communist Party (SCP), the Ba'ath Party was the only party able to organise mass protests among workers. The party was supported by the intelligentsia due to their pro-Egyptian and anti-imperialist stance along with their advocation of social reform.\n\nThe Ba'ath faced considerable competition from ideological competitors, notably the Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP), which supported the establishment of a Greater Syria. The Ba'ath Party's main adversary was the SCP, whose support for class struggle and internationalism was anathema to the Ba'ath. In addition to parliamentary-level competition, all these parties (as well as Islamists) competed in street-level activity and sought to recruit support among the military.\n\nBy the end of 1957, the SCP was able to weaken the Ba'ath Party to such an extent that the Ba'ath Party drafted a bill in December that called for a union with Egypt, a move that proved to be very popular. The Ba'ath leadership dissolved the party in 1958, gambling that the illegalisation of certain parties would hurt the SCP more than it would the Ba'ath.\nA military coup in Damascus in 1961 brought the UAR to an end. Sixteen prominent politicians signed a statement supporting the coup, among them al-Hawrani and Salah al-Din al-Bitar (who later retracted his signature). Following the UAR's dissolution, the Ba'ath Party was reestablished at the 1962 congress. The Military Committee did not show itself to the civilian wing of the party at this congress. During the congress, Aflaq and the Military Committee, through Muhammad Umran, made contact for the first time; the committee asked for permission to initiate a coup d'état; Aflaq supported the conspiracy.\n\nFollowing the success of the Ramadan Revolution, led by the Ba'ath Party's Iraqi Regional Branch, the Military Committee hastily convened to hatch a coup against Nazim al-Kudsi's presidency. The 8 March Revolution proved successful, and a Ba'athist government in Syria was established. The plotters first order was to establish the National Council for the Revolutionary Command (NCRC), consisting entirely of Ba'athists and Nasserists, and controlled by military personnel rather than civilians from the very beginning.\n\nWhile the Ba'ath Party had attained power, there was a problem; internal infighting. The Military Committee, which was itself a tiny minority of the already small Ba'ath Party membership, was forced to rule by force. The Ba'ath Party had only 2,500 members by mid-1963, the party lacked a popular base. Even if membership expanded, the authoritarian way of ruling it had introduced when coming to power would get worse, not better.\n\nAnother problem was that the civilian wing was riven by infighting between the radical socialist and moderate faction, while the military stood more unified. Whatever the case, the Syrian Regional Command slowly amassed its powers by weakening the National Command. This all came to a head in the 1966 Syrian coup d'état.\n\nFollowing the Ba'ath Party's founding, regional branches were established in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. Not long after it established branches in North Yemen and South Yemen. In Tunisia, a Regional Branch was established in the 1950s, but was forced underground for much of its existence. The Saudi Regional Branches elected Ali Ghannäm to represent them at the 7th National Command. While its currently unknown which side the Saudi Ba'ath took after the 1966 split, it published a newspaper, \"Sawt al-Tal‘iyya\", from 1973 to 1980. It was an ardent critic of the Saudi royal family and American imperialism. The majority of its members were Shia Muslims. In late 1963, Ba'ath cells were being established in Sudan, and there were even rumours that a Ba'ath cell had been established in Egypt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9388082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9388082", "title": "Baburam Acharya", "text": "Baburam Acharya\n\nBaburam Acharya (Nepali: बाबुराम आचार्य) (1888–1971) was a Nepalese historian and literary scholar who coined the name \"Sagarmatha\" (सगरमाथा), for the mountain better known as Mount Everest or Chomolungma (in Sherpa language; Quomolungma in Tibetan).\n\nHis main work was the study of ancient Nepalese inscriptions.\nBaburam Acharya is known as the \"ITIHAS SIROMANI\" of Nepal.\n\nNepal’s eminent historian late Baburam Acharya is credited with the Nepali name Sagarmatha for Mount Everest that straddles Nepal-China border. Nepal had no official name of its own for the world’s tallest peak in Nepali (although official name among many Nepalese peoples - Sherpa, Limbu, etc., existed long ago) until the historian found out one. What may not be true however is that he coined the name for the mountain (as is put in the Wikipedia under his name).\nBaburam wrote an essay in late 1930s in which he said that among the local populace of the remote Everest region the mountain was popular by the name Sagarmatha (meaning the Head of the Earth touching the Heaven); some even called it Jhomolongma. \nIn his own words:\n\nThe then rulers of Nepal took exception of publication of the essay and its publication, and the historian was admonished. In his book \"A Brief Account of Nepal\", Baburam wrote\n\nIn his another book \"China, Tibet and Nepal\" Baburam wrote: \"The name Sagarmatha already existed; I only discovered it; it is not that I christened the mountain with a new name.\"\n\nTwo decades after publication of the essay, the Nepalese government gave official recognition to the name.\n"}
{"id": "98935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98935", "title": "Burgenland", "text": "Burgenland\n\nBurgenland (; ; ; ; ; is the easternmost and least populous state of Austria. It consists of two statutory cities and seven rural districts, with in total 171 municipalities. It is long from north to south but much narrower from west to east ( wide at Sieggraben). The region is part of the Centrope Project.\n\nBurgenland is the seventh largest of Austria's nine states, or \"Bundesländer\", at . The highest point in the province is on the Geschriebenstein, whose summit is above sea level, but the highest point in Burgenland itself is 879 metres above sea level; the lowest point (which is also the lowest point of Austria) at , is in the municipal area of Apetlon.\n\nBurgenland borders the Austrian state of Styria to the southwest, and the state of Lower Austria to the northwest. To the east it borders Hungary (Vas County and Győr-Moson-Sopron County). In the extreme north and south there are short borders with Slovakia (Bratislava Region) and Slovenia (Mura Statistical Region) respectively.\n\nBurgenland and Hungary share the Neusiedler See, a lake known for its reeds and shallowness, as well as its mild climate throughout the year. The Neusiedler See is Austria's largest lake, and is a great tourist attraction, bringing ornithologists, sailors, and wind and kite surfers into the region north of the lake.\n\nBurgenland's state assembly \"(Landtag)\" has 36 seats. At the election held on 31 May 2015, the Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) won 15 seats, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) won 11 seats, the Freedom Party (FPÖ) won 6 seats, the Green Party won 2 seats and the List Burgenland won 2 seats as well. The provincial government is a coalition of the SPÖ and the FPÖ. The voting age for regional elections in Burgenland was reduced to 16 in 2003.\n\nBurgenland consists of nine districts, two statutory cities and seven rural districts. From north to south:\nThese combine the attributes of district and city.\n\n\nThe territory of present-day Burgenland was successively part of the Roman Empire, the Hun Empire, the Kingdom of the Ostrogoths, the Italian Kingdom of Odoacer, the Kingdom of the Lombards, the Avar Khaganate, the Frankish Empire, Dominion Aba belonging to the Aba (family); Aba - Koszegi, the Kingdom of Hungary, the Habsburg Monarchy, the Austrian Empire, Austria-Hungary, Austria.\n\nBurgenland is the only Austrian state which has never been part of the Archduchy of Austria, Holy Roman Empire, German Confederation nor Austria-Hungary's Cisleithania.\n\nThe first Indo-European peoples appeared in this region around 3300 BC. From the 4th century BC, the area was dominated by Celts and in the 1st century AD it became part of the Roman Empire. During Roman administration, it was part of the province of Pannonia, and later part of the provinces of Pannonia Superior (in the 2nd century) and Pannonia Prima (in the 3rd century). During the late Roman Empire, Pannonia Prima province was part of larger administrative units, such are Diocese of Pannonia, Praetorian prefecture of Illyricum and Praetorian prefecture of Italy.\n\nThe first Germanic people to settle in this region were the Ostrogoths, who came to Pannonia in AD 380. The Ostrogoths became allies of Rome and were allowed to settle in Pannonia, being tasked to defend the Roman borders. In the 5th century, the area was conquered by the Huns, but after their defeat, an independent Kingdom of the Ostrogoths in Pannonia was formed. The territory of present-day Burgenland became part of the Italian Kingdom of Odoacer, but at the end of the 5th century the Ostrogothic king Theodoric conquered this kingdom and restored Ostrogothic administration in western Pannonia.\n\nIn the 6th century, the territory was included in another Germanic state, the Kingdom of the Lombards. However, the Lombards subsequently left towards Italy and the area came under the control of the Avars. Briefly in the 7th century, the area was part of the Slavic State of Samo, but was subsequently returned to Avar control. After the Avar defeat at the end of the 8th century, the area became part of the Frankish Empire. After the Battle of Lechfeld (or Augsburg) in 955, new Germanic settlers came to the area.\n\nIn 1043 there was a peace treaty between Henry III (who later in the same year married Agnes de Poitou, a daughter of Duke Guillaume V of Aquitaine) and King Samuel Aba of Hungary, whose descendants owned large estates in western Slavonia and whose relative later married a daughter of Agnes of Poitou. On 20 September 1058 Agnes of Poitou and Andrew I of Hungary, whose son later married a daughter of Agnes of Poitou, met to negotiate the border. The area of Burgenland remained the western border-zone of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary until the 16th century.\n\nThe majority of the population was Germanic, except for the Hungarian border-guards of the frontier March (\"Gyepű\"). Germanic immigration from neighbouring Austria was also continuous in the Middle Ages.\n\nIn 1440 the territory of present-day Burgenland was controlled by the Habsburgs of Austria, and in 1463 the northern part of it (with the town of Kőszeg) became a mortgage-territory according to the peace treaty of Wiener Neustadt. In 1477 King Matthias Corvinus of Hungary had retaken the area, but in 1491 it was mortgaged again by King Vladislaus II of Bohemia and Hungary to Emperor Maximilian I. In 1647 Emperor Ferdinand II returned it to the Kingdom of Hungary (which itself was a Habsburg possession in this time).\n\nIn the 16th century, medieval Kingdom of Hungary lost its independence and its north-western part that was not conquered by the Ottoman Empire was included in the Habsburg Empire. This Habsburg possession was known as Royal Hungary and it included territory of present-day Burgenland and western Hungary. Royal Hungary still had counties. What is today Burgenland it was in those times the Moson, Sopron Vas and Zala counties of Hungary.\nIn the 16-17th centuries German Protestant refugees arrived in Western Royal Hungary to shelter from the religious wars of the Holy Roman Empire, particularly from the supression of the Reformation in Austrian territories, then ruled by the staunchly Roman Catholic Habsburgs. After the Habsburg military victory against the Ottomans at the end of the 17th century, the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary was enlarged to include much of the territory of the former medieval Kingdom of Hungary. In the 17th and 18th centuries the region of Western Hungary was dominated by the wealthy Catholic landowning families, for example the Esterházys and Batthyánys. In 1867, the Habsburg Empire was transformed into the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary.\n\nAccording to the 1910 census 291,800 people lived on the territory of present-day Burgenland. Among them 217,072 were German-speaking (74%), 43,633 Croatian-speaking (15%) and 26,225 (9%) Hungarian-speaking. Roma people were counted according to their native language.\n\nFrom March to August 1919, the Burgenland was part of the Hungarian Soviet Republic.\n\nThe area had also been discussed as the site of a Czech Corridor to Yugoslavia. The decision about \"German West Hungary\" (\"Deutsch-Westungarn\") was fixed in the peace treaties of Saint Germain and Trianon. Despite diplomatic efforts by Hungary, the victorious parties of World War I set the date of Burgenland's official unification with Austria as 28 August 1921. In fact, the establishment of Austrian police control and customs was stopped on the same day, hindered by sharpshooters who offered armed resistance with the support of Hungary. Lieutenant Colonel Pál Prónay with his men, the Rongyos Gárda defended Western Hungary from the occupying Austrian officials, and forces of the Austrian Gendarmerie. He had help from the Hungarian and Croatian people, who did not want to live under Austrian rule. That became the Uprising in West Hungary in 1921. Prónay created the short state of Lajtabánság. Austria annexed the Western territory of Moson County, Sopron County, Vas County and Zala County with the help of the victorious' powers of World War I. In 1921, general elections were held in the area and as a result of that Sopron and surrunding larger territories were voted to stay in Hungary thus the Hungarian occupation ot the other territories ended. These areas was later handed over to Austria and Burgenland was created.\n\nWith the help of Italian diplomatic mediation in the Venice Protocol, the crisis was almost resolved in the autumn of 1921, when Hungary committed to disarm the sharpshooters by 6 November 1921, in exchange for a plebiscite on the unification of certain territories, including Ödenburg (Sopron), the designated capital of Burgenland, and eight surrounding villages. The vote took place from 14 to 16 December, and resulted in a clear (but doubted by Austria) vote of the people who inhabited the Sopron district to be part of Hungary. Consequently, the territory was incorporated into Austria, except for the Sopron district which was united with Hungary.\n\nIn contrast to all the other present Austrian states, which had been part of Cisleithania, Burgenland did not constitute a specific \"Kronland\", and when it was formed it did not have its own regional political and administrative institutions such as a \"Landtag\" (representative assembly) and \"Statthalter\" (imperial governor).\n\nOn 18 July 1922, the first elections for the parliament of Burgenland took place. Various interim arrangements were required due to the changeover from Hungarian to Austrian jurisdiction. The parliament decided in 1925 on Eisenstadt as the capital of Burgenland, and moved from the various provisional estates throughout the country to the newly built \"Landhaus\" in 1929.\n\nThe first Austrian census in 1923 registered 285,600 people in Burgenland. The ethnic composition of the province had changed slightly: the percentage of Germans increased compared to 1910 (227,869 people, 80%) while the percentage of Hungarians rapidly declined (14,931 people, 5%). This was due to the emigration of the Hungarian civil servants and intellectuals after the union with Austria.\n\nIn 1923, emigration to the United States of America, which started in the late 19th century, reached its climax; in some places up to a quarter of the population went overseas.\n\nAfter the Nazi German \"Anschluss\" of Austria, the administrative unit of Burgenland was dissolved. Northern and central Burgenland joined the district of Niederdonau (Lower Danube) while southern Burgenland joined Steiermark (Styria).\n\nThe policy of Germanization also affected other minorities, especially Burgenland Croats and Hungarians. Minority schools were closed and the use of their native language discouraged.\n\nIn 1944, the Nazis began, with the help of mostly Jewish forced labour and committed inhabitants, to build the \"Südostwall\" (South-east wall), which proved utterly useless when Soviet troops crossed the Hungarian–Austrian border and invaded Austria. In the last days of the Nazi regime many executions and death-marches of the Jewish forced labourers took place.\n\nAs of 1 October 1945 Burgenland was reestablished with Soviet support and given to the Soviet forces in exchange for Steiermark (Styria), which was in turn occupied by the United Kingdom.\n\nUnder Soviet occupation, people in Burgenland had to endure a period of serious mistreatment and an extremely slow economic progress, the latter induced by the investor-discouraging presence of the Soviet troops. The Soviet occupation ended with the signing of the Austrian Independence Treaty of Vienna in 1955 by the Occupying Forces.\n\nThe brutally crushed Hungarian Revolution on 23 October 1956 resulted in a shockwave of Hungarian refugees at the Hungarian-Austrian border, especially at the Bridge of Andau (Brücke von Andau), who were received by the inhabitants of Burgenland with an overwhelming amount of hospitality.\n\nIn 1957, the construction of the \"anti-Fascist Protective Barrier\" resulted in a complete bulkheading of the area under Soviet influence from the rest of the world, rendering the Hungarian-Austrian border next to Burgenland a deadly zone of minefields (on the Hungarian border) and barbed wire, referred to as the Iron Curtain. Even during the era of the Iron Curtain, local trains between the north and south of Burgenland operated as \"corridor trains\" (\"Korridorzüge\") – they had their doors locked as they traversed Hungarian territory.\n\nBetween 1965 and 1971, the minefields were cleared because people were often harmed by them, even on the Austrian side of the border. This could well be taken as a sign of the Soviet Union towards opening the borders to the Western countries, starting in the late 1970s.\n\nDespite Burgenland (especially the area around Neusiedler See) always producing excellent wine, some vintners in Burgenland added illegal substances to their wine in the mid-1980s. When this was revealed, Austria's wine exports dwindled dramatically. After recovering from the scandal, vintners in Austria, not only in Burgenland, started focusing on quality and mostly stopped producing poor quality wine.\n\nOn 27 July 1989, the Foreign ministers of Austria and Hungary, Alois Mock and Gyula Horn, cut the Iron Curtain (in German: \"Eiserner Vorhang\") in the village of Klingenbach in a symbolic act with far-reaching consequences. At the same time, the border crossing at Nickelsdorf (Austria) / Hegyeshalom (Hungary) was opened by the Hungarian border patrol and this enabled the escape of East Germans. Directly behind the wires special medic troops of the Austrian Red Cross awaited them and provided first assistance. Thousands of East Germans used this possibility to flee to the West. Again, the inhabitants of Burgenland received them with great hospitality. Later, this was often referred to as the starting shot of the German reunification.\n\nAfter 1990 Burgenland regained its traditional role as a bridge between the western and eastern parts of Central Europe. Cross-border links were strengthened when Hungary, Slovakia and Slovenia joined the European Union in 2004. All three countries became part of the Schengen zone in late 2007 when border controls finally ceased to exist in the region.\n\nBurgenland has notable Croatian (29,000–45,000) and Hungarian (5,000–15,000) populations.\n\nThe Croats arrived after the devastating Ottoman war in 1532, when the Ottoman army destroyed some settlements in their ethnic territory. The emigration in great haste of the Catholic remained population of western Slavonia into the Burgenland was – as far as possible – organized by the estate owners. The archives of the Sabor (the Croatian parliament) from this period contain numerous references to such resettlements. As reported in the spring of 1538 by the Ban of Croatia, Petar Keglević, who himself owned large estates in western Slavonia, that the country's population at the Ottoman border was preparing to emigrate. Their resettlement by estate owners was finished only in 1584. They have preserved their strong Catholic faith and their language until today, and in the 19th century their national identity grew stronger because of the influence of the National Revival in Croatia. Between 1918 and 1921 Croats opposed the planned annexation of West-Hungary to Austria, and in 1923 seven Croatian villages voted for a return to Hungary. The Croatian Cultural Association of Burgenland was established in 1934. In the Nazi era (1938–45) the Croatian language was officially prohibited, and the state pursued an aggressive policy of Germanization. The Austrian State Treaty of 1955 guaranteed minority rights for every native ethnic minority in Austria but Croats had to fight for the use of their language in schools and offices even in the 1960s and 1970s. In 2000 51 new bilingual village name signs were erected in Burgenland (47 Croatian and 4 Hungarian).\n\nThe Burgenland Croatian language is an interesting 16th century dialect which is different from standard Croatian. In minority schools and media the local dialect is used, and it has had a written form since the 17th century (the Gospel was first translated to this dialect in 1711). Today the language is endangered by assimilation, according to the UNESCO's Red Book of Endangered Languages. The Croats of Burgenland belong to the same group as their relatives on the other side of the modern Austrian-Hungarian border.\n\nHungarians live in the villages of Oberwart/Felsőőr, Unterwart/Alsóőr and Siget in der Wart/Őrisziget. The three villages together are called Upper Őrség (Hun: \"Felső-Őrség\", German: \"Wart\"), and they have formed a language island since the 11th century. The other old Hungarian language island in Oberpullendorf/Felsőpulya has almost disappeared today. The Hungarians of Burgenland were \"őrök\", i.e. guards of the western frontier, and their special dialect is similar to the Székelys in Transylvania. Their cultural centre is Oberwart/Felsőőr. Another distinct Hungarian group were the indentured agricultural workers living on the huge estates north of Neusiedler See. They arrived mainly from the Rábaköz region. After the dissolution of the manors in the mid-20th century this group ceased to exist.\n\nIn addition to Germans, Croats and Hungarians, Burgenland used to have substantial Roma and Jewish populations, wiped out by the Nazi regime. Before their deportation during 1938, the traditionally very religious Burgenland Jews were concentrated in the famous \"Seven Communities\" (Siebengemeinden/Sheva kehillot) in Eisenstadt, Mattersburg, Kittsee, Frauenkirchen, Kobersdorf, Lackenbach and Deutschkreutz, where they formed a substantial part of the population: e.g. in Lackenbach, 62% of the population was Jewish as of 1869. After the war, Jews from Burgenland founded the Jerusalem haredi neighbourhood of Kiryat Mattersdorf, reminding of the original name of Mattersburg, once a centre of a famous yeshiva.\n\nIn Croatian, it is known as \"Gradišće\"; in Hungarian as \"Őrvidék\", \"Felsőőrvidék\" or \"Várvidék\"; in Slovene as \"Gradiščanska\"; and in the Prekmurje dialect as \"Gradišče\".\n\nAs the region was not a territorial entity before 1921, it never had an official name. Until the end of World War I the German-speaking western borderland of the Kingdom of Hungary was sometimes unofficially called \"Deutsch-Westungarn\" (German West Hungary). The historical region included the border city of Sopron in Hungary (known as Ödenburg in German).\n\nThe name Vierburgenland (Land of Four Castles) was created in 1919 by Odo Rötig, a Viennese resident in Sopron. It was derived from the name of the four \"vármegye\" of the Kingdom of Hungary (in German \"Komitate\", 'counties') known in Hungarian as Pozsony, Moson, Sopron and Vas, or in German as Pressburg, Wieselburg, Ödenburg and Eisenburg. After the town of Pozsony/Pressburg (Bratislava) was assigned to Czechoslovakia, the number \"vier\" was dropped, but the name was kept because it was deemed to be appropriate for a region with so many old frontier castles. The \"Burgenland\" name was adopted by the first provincial Landtag in 1922.\n\nIn Hungarian the German name is generally accepted but there are three modern alternatives used by minor groups. The Hungarian translation of the German name, \"Várvidék\", was invented by László Juhász, an expert of the region in the 1970s, and it is becoming increasingly popular especially in tourist publications. The other two names \"Őrvidék\" and \"Felső-Őrvidék\" are derived from the name of the most important old Magyar language island, the Felső-Őrség. This microregion is around the town Felsőőr/Oberwart so these new names are a bit misleading however they are sometimes used.\n\nThe Croatian and Slovenian names \" and \" are translations of the German name. The village of Jennersdorf is no more than 5 kilometers from the Slovenian and Hungarian borders (see the United Slovenia movement).\n\nAlternatively, the Serbs, Czechs and Slovaks call the western shores of the Neusiedler See (lake) surrounding the town of Rust Luzic or Lusic. However, the descendants of Luzic Serbs, Bosniaks, Croats, Czechs and Slovaks were eventually assimilated into the ethnic German or Hungarian cultures over four centuries.\n\nThe province has a long history of Slavic, as well Austrian-German and Hungarian-Magyar settlement. The province's easternmost portion (the shores of the Neusiedler See) carried its own topographical term \"Seewinkel\" in Austrian-German. This is the least Austrian-German influenced area since the Hungarian and Slovak borders are less than 10 kilometers away.\n\nHeraldic description of the coat-of-arms of Burgenland:\n\nThe arms were introduced in 1922 after the new province was created. They were composed from the arms of the two most important medieval noble families of the region, the counts of Nagymarton and Fraknó (Mattersdorf-Forchtensten, eagle on the rock) and the counts of Németújvár (Güssing, three bars of red and white fur).\n\nThe flag of the province shows two stripes of red and gold, the colours of the coat-of-arms. It was officially confirmed in 1971.\n\nThe Burgenländische Gemeinschaft (\"Burgenland Community\") was founded in 1956, hoping to unite those from Burgenland who have emigrated and now span the globe. The main goals include fostering Burgenland unity, establishing a global community, organizing family trips and gatherings, and reinforcing a sense of homeland attachment. Efforts are also being made to ensure the security of important Burgenland historical documents. Since its inception over 50 years ago, regional chapters have spread throughout the world, with large communities in USA, Canada, Argentina, Switzerland, and Germany. In the USA alone, the Burgenländische Gemeinschaft services over 20,000 people.\n\nThe cultural offerings are diverse and especially in the summer famous for the Seefestspiele Mörbisch and the Nova Rock Festival with numerous international rockbands.\n\nThe permanent exhibition at Forchtenstein Castle shows an impressive collection of the dukes of Esterházy, at whose court at Esterházy Palace worked the world-famous musician Joseph Haydn, who composed from the Burgenland Croatian folk-song \"V jutro rano se ja stanem\" (\"In the morning I rise up early\") the melody of \"Gott erhalte Franz den Kaiser\" (\"God save Franz the Emperor\"), which became the melody of today's national anthem of Germany. There are also cultural events organized by the minorities such as Croatian or Hungarian folk evenings.\n\nThe dialect spoken in Burgenland is called Hianzisch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54132262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54132262", "title": "Dariusz Adamczyk", "text": "Dariusz Adamczyk\n\nDariusz Adamczyk (born 1966 in Poland) is a Polish-German historian.\n\nAdamczyk studied history, political science, sociology and social psychology at the University of Silesia in Katowice and the University of Hanover, where he gained a PhD defending a thesis called \"Zur Stellung Polens im modernen Weltsystem der frühen Neuzeit\" (\"On Poland's position in the modern world system of the early modern age\"). Between 2000 and 2008, Adamczyk was a lecturer in Eastern European History at the History Department of the University of Hanover, before holding a junior professorship in Eastern European History at the same institution until July 2010. Since September 2010, he has been a research fellow at the German Historical Institute Warsaw, where he is researching the Piast dynasty in the European context. He has also worked on the history of Eastern and East-Central Europe, relations between the Islamic world and Europe in the Middle Ages, and the history of trade and money. Since 2010, Adamczyk has been the editor of Hans-Heinrich Nolte's \"Zeitschrift für Weltgeschichte\" (\"World History Magazine\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9548106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9548106", "title": "Diarmaid Ferriter", "text": "Diarmaid Ferriter\n\nDiarmaid Ferriter (born 1973) is an Irish historian, and university lecturer. He has written several books on the subject of Irish history. Ferriter attended St. Benildus College in Kilmacud in Dublin.\n\nFerriter is Professor of Modern Irish History at University College Dublin. He was formerly a senior lecturer in history at St. Patrick's College, Drumcondra, Dublin City University. He is also the host of \"What If\", a radio programme that broadcasts weekly on RTÉ 1.\n\nIn 2007, Ferriter wrote the critically acclaimed biography, \"Judging Dev\". This was an insight into one of Ireland's most influential leaders, Éamon de Valera. It won in three categories of the 2008 Irish Book Awards.\nHe was Burns Scholar at Boston College from 2008 to 2009.\n\nIn 2004, his book \"The Transformation of Ireland 1900–2000\", at 900 pages and containing many new perspectives on modern Irish history, was considered a landmark publication. His book \"Occasions of Sin: Sex and Society in Modern Ireland\" (2009), considered the definitive history of sexuality in twentieth century Ireland, was met with widespread praise from reviewers at home and abroad.\n\nIn June 2010, he presented a three-part television series \"The Limits of Liberty\", about how the senior politicians of the Irish Republic and Irish Free State were more concerned about holding on to power than changing policy for the benefit of the people.\n\nIt was reported in July 2012 that Tim Lyons of Athenry, Co Galway, \"claimed a photo of him with two pints of stout on the cover of Prof Ferriter's A Nation of Extremes – The Pioneers in Twentieth Century Ireland depicts him as an alcoholic... [Ennis Circuit] Judge Keys reserved the issue of costs pending the outcome of the full hearing\".\n\nFerriter's book, \"Ambiguous Republic: Ireland in the 1970s\", published in November 2012, considers the widespread social, cultural, economic and political upheavals of the decade, a time when the Northern Irish Troubles profoundly affected the governance of the Republic, when Ireland joined the EEC, when for the first time a majority of the population lived in urban areas, and when economic challenges abounded. The 1970s in Ireland also witnessed an increasingly visible feminist movement, and the political and legal establishments and other powerful institutions including the Church began to be subjected to a new criticism.\n\nIn 2013, in response to the release of tape recordings from Anglo Irish Bank, Ferriter discussed his thoughts on what future historians would ask about contemporary Ireland, questions such as \"Was there nothing that would bring the Irish to the barricades during the financial meltdown? Why did a country that fought a war of independence in the early 20th Century become so compliant and docile in the face of the exposure of systemic corruption and the destruction of that independence nearly a century later? And why were those responsible not made accountable and punished?\"\nIn 2013, Ferriter played a leading role in the Democracy Matters group that successfully campaigned against the government's proposal to abolish the Irish Senate; the proposal was defeated in a referendum in October 2013. In 2014 he became a weekly columnist with The Irish Times.\n\nIn 2015, Ferriter published his account of the revolutionary years of the early twentieth century in \"A Nation and Not a Rabble: The Irish Revolution 1913-1923\". Based on new sources and perspectives, it was acclaimed by the Irish Independent as \"magisterial\", and \"Giving Voice to history's silent souls\" . (Irish Independent, 14 March 2015)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20465760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20465760", "title": "Dick Harrison", "text": "Dick Harrison\n\nDick Walther Harrison (born April 10, 1966) is a Swedish historian who was born in Huddinge, Stockholm County, Sweden and spent much of his youth in Staffanstorp in Skåne. On June 12, 2010 he married Katarina Lindbergh in Kalmar Cathedral. He is currently a Professor of History at Lund University.\n\nHis main areas of interest are the European Middle Ages, including the medical history of the period, and the history of slavery. Harrison regularly writes articles for the Swedish journal \"Populär Historia\" (Popular History). He has also written popular historical works and, during Spring 2010, a blog covering the history of monarchs and monarchies with emphasis on the Swedish monarchy. Harrison regularly gives lectures to the general public on a broad range of historical topics.\n\nHarrison is the editor-in-chief of a comprehensive series about Swedish history published by Norstedts with the first volume released in September, 2009. The Swedish TV channel TV4 has made a companion television series for which Harrison is the historical consultant and co-host along with Martin Timell. The TV series has 12 episodes of which the first six aired on TV4 during spring 2010. The second set of six episodes aired spring 2011.\n\nIn addition to his historical writing, Harrison has written three historical novels about Ulvbjörn Vamodsson, a 7th-century (fictitious) warrior: \"Ofärd,\" \"Niding\" and \"Illdåd\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40870765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40870765", "title": "Edward Feser", "text": "Edward Feser\n\nEdward C. Feser (; born April 16, 1968) is an American philosopher. He is Associate Professor of Philosophy at Pasadena City College in Pasadena, California. He has been a Visiting Assistant Professor at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles and a Visiting Scholar at the Social Philosophy and Policy Center at Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio.\n\nCalled by \"National Review\" \"one of the best contemporary writers on philosophy,\" Feser is the author of \"On Nozick\", \"Philosophy of Mind\", \"Locke\", \"The Last Superstition: A Refutation of the New Atheism\", \"Aquinas\", \"Scholastic Metaphysics: A Contemporary Introduction\", \"Neo-Scholastic Essay\", and \"Five Proofs of the Existence of God\", the co-author of \"By Man Shall His Blood Be Shed: A Catholic Defense of Capital Punishment\", and the editor of \"The Cambridge Companion to Hayek and Aristotle on Method and Metaphysics\". He is also the author of many academic articles. His primary academic research interests are in metaphysics, natural theology, the philosophy of mind, and moral and political philosophy.\n\nFeser also writes on politics and culture, from a conservative point of view; and on religion, from a traditional Roman Catholic perspective. In this connection, his work has appeared in such publications as \"The American\", \"The American Conservative\", \"Catholic World Report\", \"City Journal\", \"The Claremont Review of Books\", \"Crisis\", \"First Things\", \"Liberty\", \"National Review\", \"New Oxford Review\", \"Public Discourse\", \"Reason\", and \"TCS Daily\". He is best known for his writings on philosophy, especially his works on neo-scholasticism, and \"The Last Superstition: A Refutation of the New Atheism\".\n\nFeser holds a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of California at Santa Barbara, an M.A. in religion from the Claremont Graduate School, and a B.A. in philosophy and religious studies from the California State University at Fullerton. His thesis is titled \"Russell, Hayek, and the Mind-Body Problem\".\n\nFeser is an associate professor of philosophy at Pasadena City College and has been a visiting assistant professor of philosophy at Loyola Marymount University and a visiting scholar at Bowling Green State University's Social Philosophy and Policy Center. \n\nFeser's book, \"The Last Superstition: A Refutation of the New Atheism\", makes a philosophical argument for the classical Aristotelian-Thomistic worldview over and against the materialist assumptions and scientistic prejudices of contemporary atheists such as Richard Dawkins, of whom he is particularly critical.\n\nFeser has written articles for publications such as: \"The American\", \"The American Conservative\", \"Catholic World Report\", \"City Journal\", \"The Claremont Review of Books\", \"Crisis\", \"First Things\", \"Liberty\", \"National Review\", \"New Oxford Review\", \"Public Discourse\", Witherspoon Institute, \"Reason\", and \"TCS Daily\".\n\nFeser lives with his wife and six children in Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57550574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57550574", "title": "Elk River Archeological District", "text": "Elk River Archeological District\n\nThe Elk River Archeological District is a historic district in Elk County, Kansas and Montgomery County, Kansas which includes 69 contributing sites. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978 for its information potential.\n\nPresumably it is in general area of the Elk River.\n"}
{"id": "308325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308325", "title": "Fawn M. Brodie", "text": "Fawn M. Brodie\n\nFawn McKay Brodie (September 15, 1915 – January 10, 1981) was a biographer and one of the first female professors of history at UCLA, who is best known for \"Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History\" (1974), a work of psychobiography, and \"No Man Knows My History\" (1945), an early and still influential biography of Joseph Smith, the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement.\n\nRaised in Utah in a respected, if impoverished, Latter-day Saint (LDS Church) family, Fawn McKay drifted away from Mormonism during her years of graduate work at the University of Chicago. She married Bernard Brodie, an ethnically Jewish academic who became a national defense expert; they had three children. Although Fawn Brodie eventually became one of the first tenured female professors of history at UCLA, she is best known for her five biographies, four of which incorporate insights from Freudian psychology.\n\nBrodie's depiction of Joseph Smith in 1945 as a fraudulent \"genius of improvisation\" has been described as both a \"beautifully written biography ... the work of a mature scholar [that] represented the first genuine effort to come to grips with the contradictory evidence about Smith's early life\" and as a work that presented conjecture as fact. Her best-selling psychobiography of Thomas Jefferson, published in 1974, was the first serious study to examine evidence related to accounts that he had taken his slave Sally Hemings as a concubine. Brodie concluded these accounts were true, a conclusion supported by a 1998 DNA analysis and current scholarly consensus.\n\nFawn McKay was the second of five children of Thomas E. McKay and Fawn Brimhall. Born in Ogden, Utah, she grew up in Huntsville, about ten miles (16 km) east. Both her parents descended from families influential in early Mormonism. Her maternal grandfather, George H. Brimhall, was president of Brigham Young University. Her father, Thomas Evans McKay, was a bishop, president of the LDS Swiss-Austrian mission, and an Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. Brodie's paternal uncle was David O. McKay, an apostle in the LDS Church when Brodie was born, who later became the ninth president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nDespite the prominence of her family in the church, they lived in genteel poverty, their property burdened by unpayable debt. The young Fawn was perpetually embarrassed that their house did not have indoor plumbing.\n\nFawn early demonstrated precociousness. At three she memorized and recited lengthy poems. When a whooping cough epidemic convinced Brodie's mother to homeschool Fawn's sister Flora, who was two years older, Fawn more than kept pace. Introduced to school in 1921, the six-year-old Fawn was advanced to the fourth grade; when she lost the school spelling bee to a twelve-year-old, \"she cried and cried that this bright boy, twice her age, had spelled her down.\" At ten she had a poem printed in the LDS youth periodical, \"The Juvenile Instructor\"; at fourteen she was salutatorian of Weber High School.\n\nAlthough Fawn grew to maturity in a rigorously religious environment that included strict Sabbatarianism and evening prayers on her knees, her mother was a closet skeptic who thought the LDS Church a \"wonderful social order\" but who doubted its dogma. According to Brodie, in the late 1930s, while her father headed Mormon mission activities in German-speaking Europe, her mother became a \"thoroughgoing heretic\" while accompanying him there.\n\nFrom 1930 to 1932 Fawn attended Weber College, a two-year institution in Ogden then owned by the LDS Church, where she became an accomplished public speaker and participated in intercollegiate debate. She completed her B.A. in English literature at the University of Utah in 1934. There she began to question core Mormon beliefs, such as that the Native Americans had originated in ancient Palestine. After graduation at age nineteen, she returned to teach English at Weber College.\n\nIn high school, McKay had begun dating a classmate, Dilworth Jensen. They wrote to each other faithfully during Jensen's long absence on an LDS mission in Europe. In June 1935, both McKay and Jensen were accepted for graduate studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and friends assumed they would marry. Her sister Flora McKay had recently eloped with Jensen's brother, whom the McKays disliked. They encouraged Fawn to attend the University of Chicago rather than marry. McKay seemed to have had \"growing doubts about marrying\" Jensen.\n\nAt the University of Chicago, where she earned an M.A. in 1936, Brodie lost her faith in religion entirely. In 1975, she recalled, \"It was like taking a hot coat off in the summertime. The sense of liberation I had at the University of Chicago was exhilarating. I felt very quickly that I could not go back to the old life, and I never did.\" She continued to write to Jensen until shortly before she married Bernard Brodie on her graduation day, August 28, 1936.\n\nBrodie was a native of Chicago, the son of Latvian Jewish immigrants, who was alienated from both his family and his family's religion. A bright graduate student in international relations, Brodie eventually became a noted expert in military strategy during the Cold War era. The McKays were horrified at their daughter's impending marriage; Dilworth Jensen felt betrayed. David O. McKay went to Chicago to warn his niece of the family's strong objections. Out of consideration for her mother, Fawn scheduled the wedding in an LDS chapel, but of the McKays, only Fawn's mother attended. None of Brodie's family did.\n\nHaving found temporary employment at the Harper Library of the University of Chicago, Brodie began researching the origins of the Book of Mormon. By mid-1939, she confided to her uncle, Dean R. Brimhall (another ex-Mormon), that she intended to write a scholarly biography of Joseph Smith. Progress toward that goal was slowed by the birth of the Brodies' first child and by three rapid moves, a consequence of her husband's search for a permanent position. In 1943 Fawn Brodie was encouraged enough by her progress to enter her 300-page draft in a contest for the Alfred A. Knopf literary fellowship. In May her application was judged the best of the 44 entries.\n\nBrodie continued her research at the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., where the Brodies had moved for her husband's work, as well as at the headquarters of the Reorganized LDS Church in Independence, Missouri. Eventually she returned to Utah, where she did research in the LDS Church Archives. She gained access to some highly restricted materials by claiming to be \"Brother McKay's daughter,\" a subterfuge that made her feel \"guilty as hell.\" Her pursuit of little-known documents eventually attracted the attention of her uncle David O. McKay. After a \"painful, acrimonious encounter\" with her uncle, Brodie promised never again to consult materials in the Church Archives.\n\nBrodie's research was enlarged by other students of Mormonism, most notably Dale L. Morgan (1914–1971), who became a lifelong friend, mentor, and sounding board. Brodie completed her biography of Joseph Smith in 1944, and it was published in 1945 by Alfred A. Knopf, when she was thirty years old.\n\nIts title, \"No Man Knows My History\", alludes to a comment Joseph Smith made in a speech shortly before his assassination in 1844. Brodie presents the young Joseph as a lazy, good-natured, extroverted, and unsuccessful treasure seeker. In an attempt to improve his family's fortunes, he developed the notion of golden plates and then the concept of a religious novel, the Book of Mormon. It was based in part on \"View of the Hebrews\", an earlier work by a contemporary clergyman Ethan Smith. Brodie asserts that at first Joseph Smith was a deliberate impostor; but at some point, in nearly untraceable steps, he became convinced that he was a prophet. She wrote that he never escaped \"the memory of the conscious artifice\" that created the Book of Mormon.\n\nNon-Mormon reviewers praised either the author's research, the excellence of her literary style, or both. \"Newsweek\" called Brodie's book \"a definitive biography in the finest sense of the word,\" and \"Time\" praised the author for her \"skill and scholarship and admirable detachment.\" Other reviews were less positive. Brodie was especially annoyed by the review of novelist Vardis Fisher, who accused her of stating \"as indisputable facts what can only be regarded as conjectures supported by doubtful evidence.\" Bernard DeVoto wrote a mixed review, but he praised the biography as \"the best book about the Mormons so far published.\" DeVoto, who believed Joseph Smith was \"paranoid,\" said that Brodie had not provided adequate psychological explanations for Smith's behavior. Brodie also came to believe that a thorough psychological analysis of Smith was essential and that she \"hadn't gone far enough in this direction.\"\n\nAlthough \"No Man Knows My History\" criticized many foundational Mormon beliefs about Joseph Smith, the LDS Church was slow to condemn the work, even as the book went into a second printing. In 1946, \"The Improvement Era\", an official periodical of the Church, said that many of the book's citations were from \"doubtful sources\" and that the biography was \"of no interest to Latter-day Saints who have correct knowledge of the history of Joseph Smith.\" The \"Church News\" section of the \"Deseret News\" had a lengthy critique: it praised the biography's \"fine literary style\" and denounced it as \"a composite of all anti-Mormon books that have gone before.\" In the booklet, \"No, Ma'am, That's Not History\", Hugh Nibley, a BYU professor and LDS historian and apologist, challenged Brodie. He asserted that she had cited sources supportive only of her conclusions while conveniently ignoring others. Brodie described the \"Deseret News\" pamphlet as \"a well-written, clever piece of Mormon propaganda,\" but she dismissed the more popular \"No, Ma'am, That's Not History\" as \"a flippant and shallow piece.\"\n\nIn May 1946, the LDS Church excommunicated Brodie. She never tried to regain her membership. Brodie once wrote to a friend that what she suffered from her disillusionment with Mormonism \"had to do with the pain I caused my family. The disillusionment itself was...a liberating experience.\" Before \"No Man Knows My History\" was published, Brodie sought to comfort her parents, \"You brought us all up to revere the truth, which is the noblest ideal a parent can instill in his children, and the fact that we come out on somewhat different roads certainly is no reflection on you.\" Brodie's mother and three sisters were enthusiastic about the book, but Thomas McKay refused to read it.\n\nFawn Brodie genuinely enjoyed her roles as wife and mother, believing that rearing children, especially when they were small, was \"enormously fulfilling.\" Eventually the Brodies had two boys and a girl. Still, Brodie was not content to be without a writing project for long. After some desultory investigation of other possibilities, she settled on a biography of Thaddeus Stevens, a Republican representative from Pennsylvania who was a Congressional leader during the Reconstruction Era.\n\nBrodie believed that previous historians had unduly vilified Stevens, and she relished the prospect of rebuilding a reputation rather than, as in her Joseph Smith biography, tearing one down. Stevens as a champion of black people was a timely interest as the Civil Rights Movement increased in intensity. Research materials were available at Yale University, where Bernard Brodie was employed. Fawn Brodie also wondered how Stevens had been affected psychologically by having a club foot.\n\nIn the view of students of historiography such as Ernst Breisach, all biographers are to some degree psychohistorians, and any biography that refused to examine motives, character traits, and the depth of personality would be flat and uninteresting. Brodie became interested in applying the theories of professional psychoanalysts to the study of historical personalities, a subject especially popular during the mid-twentieth century. At first Brodie was amused at how much psychoanalysis had \"become a religion\" to its practitioners, but she later become a committed devotee of psychoanalytic theory. Brodie made a number of acquaintances among psychoanalysts, who helped her evaluate Thaddeus Stevens, notably Ralph R. Greenson, with whom she developed a close personal and professional relationship. Both the Brodies also undertook psychoanalysis, he for insomnia and she for chronic mild depression and sexual problems. (Bernard's employer, the RAND Corporation, paid most of the bills.) Brodie's interest in psychology during this period was heightened by family problems: her mother attempted suicide three times, the second by cutting herself with a Catholic crucifix, and the third (which succeeded) by setting herself on fire.\n\nThe Stevens biography took the better part of a decade to complete.\n\nWhen Brodie published the Stevens book in 1959, it enjoyed virtually unanimous praise from critics. Major historians of the Civil War and Reconstruction era, including David Herbert Donald and C. Vann Woodward, praised the biography. Donald called Brodie's psychoanalysis of Stevens \"a tour de force.\" Most gracious was Richard N. Current, who had written a less favorable account of Stevens, which Brodie had earlier criticized. Current not only urged W. W. Norton to publish a paperback edition of Brodie's book, but wrote a blurb praising the author for writing \"more imaginatively\" and \"more resourcefully...than any other Stevens biographer.\" Nevertheless, \"Thaddeus Stevens\" was a commercial failure that sold fewer than fifteen hundred copies before going out of print in less than a year.\n\nIn 1960 the Brodies spent a year in France, during which Fawn spent considerable energy researching and writing \"From Crossbow to H-Bomb\", a co-authored paperback intended as a college text. It treated the influence of science on military technology. Bernard Brodie had signed the contract with Random House, but his wife did most of the research and writing.\n\nWhen the family returned to California, Alfred Knopf asked Brodie to edit and write a new introduction for Sir Richard Francis Burton's memoir, \"The City of the Saints and Across the Rocky Mountains to California\" (1862). Almost immediately she \"was lost\" to Burton, a man whom she described as \"fascinating beyond belief.\" She soon planned a full biography. Like Brodie, Burton was an agnostic who was fascinated by religion and all things sexual. Brodie consulted with the psychoanalyst community and used her own free association to explore Burton's subconscious. For instance, she noted that immediately before and after Burton wrote about his mother, he talked \"about cheating, decapitation, mutilations, smashings—all the stories and metaphors are violent, negative, and hostile.\"\n\n\"The Devil Drives: A Life of Sir Richard Burton\" was published in May 1967 and was chosen as a featured selection by both the Literary Guild Book Club and the History Book Club. Reviews were again generally positive. The \"New York Times Book Review\" promoted it as an \"[e]xcellent biography of a bizarre man who had a bizarre wife—and life.\"\n\nThe publication of three acclaimed biographies allowed Brodie to become a part-time lecturer in history at the University of California, Los Angeles although she had not earned a Ph.D. (Both her bachelor's and master's degrees were in English.) As a woman, Brodie met some resistance from the large and overwhelmingly male history faculty, but her specialty in the current field of psychohistory aided her original appointment and her eventual promotion to full professor. Brodie taught both larger upper-division lectures in American history and small seminars on American political biography, preferring the latter.\n\nThomas Jefferson was a natural subject for Brodie's fourth biography. One of her courses focused on the United States from 1800 to 1830, and her seminar in political biography could serve as an appropriate forum for a work-in-progress. Throughout this period, Brodie was attracted to Mormon studies and was importuned by several publishers to write a biography of Brigham Young. The LDS entrepreneur, O.C. Tanner (1904–1993), offered Brodie $10,000 in advance to produce a manuscript. But Dale Morgan told Brodie that Madeline Reeder McQuown, a close friend, had nearly completed a huge manuscript on Young. In fact, McQuown's biography was little more than a few rough drafts of early chapters, but Brodie was dissuaded and abandoned Young for Thomas Jefferson.\n\nBy May 1968, Brodie was committed to writing the Jefferson biography. She understood that it could not be a full account. The study of Jefferson had become a virtual career for several living historians. For instance, Dumas Malone was in the process of completing a six-volume biography of Jefferson, which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1975. Brodie decided to concentrate on a biography of “the private man.” She decided to build on several recently published articles on the historical controversy describing a reported sexual relationship between Jefferson and Sally Hemings, a quadroon slave said to be the half-sister of his late wife. The topic was timely during a period of increased national interest in race, sex, and presidential hypocrisy. Brodie had personal reasons as well, having discovered that her husband had been conducting an extramarital affair.\n\nTo Brodie, Jefferson's ambiguous posturings on slavery could be explained by his personal life. If he had been conducting a 28-year affair with a slave, then he could not free his slaves because once they were freed, Virginia law would force them from the state, unless he gained permission from the legislature for them to stay. He could continue his liaison with Hemings only if his slaves remained slaves. Two of the most prominent Jefferson biographers of the twentieth century, Dumas Malone and Merrill Peterson, had relied on Jefferson family testimony by two Randolph grandchildren, who named his Carr nephews as fathers. They discounted other evidence about this alleged sexual relationship, including by Madison Hemings in 1873, who identified Jefferson as his father and said he had a long relationship with his mother. The relationship was first reported in 1802 by the journalist James T. Callender when Jefferson was President, after Callender failed to win an appointment by the president.\n\nWorking from Winthrop Jordan's \"Black on White\" (1968), Brodie also used Dumas Malone's documentation of Jefferson's activities to correlate his stays at Monticello with the conception period of each of Sally Hemings' children, whose births he recorded in the Farm Book. She discovered that Hemings never conceived when Jefferson was not at Monticello, during years when he was often away for months at a time.\n\nBy 1971 Brodie had a $15,000 advance from her publisher and had presented a summary of her arguments at the annual meeting of the Organization of American Historians. The Jefferson biographer Merrill Peterson \"blasted\" the paper. She also wrote an article for \"American Heritage\" of her work in progress, entitled \"The Great Jefferson Taboo,\" about her conclusion that the Jefferson–Hemings relationship took place. In a change from its usual practice, the magazine included all her notes to show the sources of her conclusions.\n\nBrodie and her publisher understood that the biography would be controversial. An in-house editor at W. W. Norton was critical: \"Doesn't [Brodie] know about making the theory fit the facts instead of trying to explain the facts to fit the theory? It's pretty fascinating, like working out a detective story, but she doesn't play fair.\"\n\n\"Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History\" was published in February 1974, and it was the main spring selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club. Brodie tried to ensure that none of the three foremost Jefferson scholars, Dumas Malone, Merrill Peterson, and Julian Boyd, would review the book. Brodie was interviewed on NBC's \"Today Show,\" and the book quickly \"became a topic of comment in elite social-literary circles,\" as well as among political people. The biography was an immediate commercial success; it was on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list for thirteen weeks. \"Jefferson\" sold 80,000 copies in hardback and 270,000 copies in paperback, and netted Brodie $350,000 in royalties—adjusted for inflation, more than a million dollars in the early twenty-first century.\n\nLiterary reviews were generally positive, while historians were often critical of Brodie's speculations.\n\nMainstream historians had long denied the possibility of Jefferson's relation with Sally Hemings, although such interracial liaisons were so common that by the late eighteenth century, visitors remarked on the numerous white slaves in Virginia and the Upper South. \"\"The Richmond Examiner\" on September 25, 1802, in a rare admission, stated that “thousands” of mulatto children were then being born in the South.\" Mary Chesnut and Fanny Kemble, educated women of the planter elite, also wrote about many interracial families in the era shortly before the American Civil War. Jefferson had been discreet, protecting his privacy, and he was an icon whom historians were determined to \"defend\".\n\nLike many previous Jefferson biographers, Brodie developed an intense affection for her protagonist. She claimed that in dreams, she and Jefferson became \"man and wife.\" Bernard Brodie is supposed to have muttered, \"God, I'm glad that man is out of the house.\" Fawn Brodie wondered where one could go after Jefferson, \"but down.\"\n\nAfter her book was published, Brodie was contacted by some Eston Hemings Jefferson descendants who recognized his name from her account. His descendants had married white, and this generation appeared to be white. They discovered that their fathers in the 1940s had decided that, to protect their children from racial discrimination associated with descent from Sally Hemings and Thomas Jefferson, they would tell the children they were descended from Jefferson's uncle. All these Jefferson descendants learned in the 1970s of their alleged descent from Eston Hemings, Sally Hemings and Thomas Jefferson. Brodie wrote a follow-up article about the Jefferson-Hemings grandchildren in 1976, entitled \"Thomas Jefferson’s Unknown Grandchildren: A Study in Historical Silences\"], published in October 1976 in \"American Heritage\" magazine. Photographs and other documentary material they gave her have been donated to UCLA archives.\n\nIn 1997 Annette Gordon-Reed published \"Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings: An American Controversy,\" in which she analyzed the historiography and noted the bias of historians in assessing conflicting accounts by descendants of the Jefferson family and the Hemings family, as well as evidence that they overlooked. She also noted Malone's data, which established that Jefferson was at Monticello during the conception period for each of Sally Heming's children.\n\nTo try to resolve the renewed controversy with modern techniques, in 1998 a Y-DNA study was conducted of descendants of the Jefferson male line, Eston Hemings (the youngest son of Sally Hemings), the Carr nephews, and Thomas Woodson (whose family also claimed descent from Jefferson). It found that the Y-DNA of the Eston Hemings descendant matched the rare haplotype of the male Jefferson line. In addition, the tests conclusively found that there was no match between the Carr line and the Hemings descendant.\n\nIn January 2000, a research committee commissioned by the Thomas Jefferson Foundation, which operates Monticello, concluded that there was a high probability that Jefferson had been the father of Eston Hemings and likely of all Hemings children listed in the Monticello records. Since then the Foundation has revised exhibits and tour commentary to reflect Jefferson's paternity of all Hemings' children, and it has sponsored new research into the interracial society of Monticello and Charlottesville. Since 2000, most academics, including biographers such as Joseph Ellis, have agreed with the new consensus.\n\nOther historians, including those associated with the Thomas Jefferson Heritage Society, founded after the DNA study, continue to disagree.\n\nBrodie considered a range of subjects for a new biography. Brigham Young was a clear field, but she decided not to “return to old ground.” Richard Nixon had resigned the presidency shortly after she had finished \"Jefferson,\" and Brodie had spoken formally to both students and others about the former president. As a liberal Democrat, Brodie had developed a “repellent fascination\" with Nixon, a man whom she called “a rattlesnake,” a “plain damn liar,” and a \"shabby, pathetic felon.\" Although Brodie thought Nixon was an imposter like Joseph Smith, she did not believe him to be the “charming imposter the Mormon leader was.\"\n\nHer interest in the former president had a personal basis as well. One of her sons had nearly been drafted in 1969 shortly after Nixon had won election on the promise to end the Vietnam War. (At the last minute, sympathetic physicians had reclassified Bruce Brodie as unfit for military service on the basis of his allergies.)\n\nAlso, when Nixon had sought information to discredit Daniel Ellsberg, who had leaked the Pentagon Papers, his operatives had burglarized the office of Ellsberg's psychiatrist, Dr. Lewis Fielding. Ellsberg was a close friend and former RAND associate of Bernard Brodie. Fielding was Fawn Brodie's long-time therapist. Brodie considered “Nixon the perpetrator of an assault on her privacy.”\n\nAlthough neither Bernard nor her publisher was enthusiastic about her choice, Brodie began to work on her new project. She resigned her professorship at UCLA in 1977 to devote herself to research, including, for the first time, in oral history collections. Brodie conducted 150 interviews. She tried unsuccessfully to interview Henry Kissinger—whom she knew on a first-name basis—and Nixon for what she described in a letter to him as “a compassionate and accurate study.” (Nixon did not reply.) Although she could find no evidence, Brodie began to think that he had engaged in a homosexual relationship with his good friend Bebe Rebozo. Her psychoanalyst friends tried to warn her off this topic.\n\nIn November 1977, Bernard Brodie was diagnosed with a serious cancer, and Fawn Brodie suspended her research on Nixon: “That son of a bitch can wait.” She nursed her husband until his death a year later. Afterward, she struggled with “a depression from which she would never really emerge.” Under the circumstances, Nixon's biography seemed “like a total obscenity.”\n\nWhile hiking at a family reunion in 1980, Brodie became unusually tired. She was shortly diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer, although she had never smoked. Between chemotherapy treatments, she pushed ahead to complete the Nixon study. Her three children and a daughter-in-law provided moral and editorial support. Knowing that she could never complete a full biography, Brodie ended the manuscript with Nixon's pre-presidential years, lending it an unfinished quality.\n\n\"Richard Nixon: The Shaping of His Character\" was published in late 1981 and received reviews less enthusiastic than for any of her earlier books. Writing in \"The New Republic\", Godfrey Hodgson questioned both her psychoanalytic approach and her motives: “[W]e are in danger of having the insights of psychotherapy used as a tool for character destruction, certainly for libel, potentially for revenge.” According to J. Philipp Rosenberg, Brodie's study of Richard Nixon's early career demonstrated a weakness of psychobiography because it was written by an author who disliked her subject.\n\nSales of the book were disappointing, in part because of the reviews, and in part because memoirs by Nixon associates such as Henry Kissinger, John Ehrlichman, and John Dean had recently flooded the market. Perhaps Brodie's book was most influential in stimulating Oliver Stone to create his controversial 1995 movie \"Nixon\".\n\nBrodie died nine months before publication of the book. As death neared, the cancer spread to her brain and bones, and Brodie suffered intense pain. During this period, she was visited in the hospital by her brother Thomas, who had remained a practicing Latter-day Saint. Brodie asked him to “give me a blessing,” although she had long been estranged from both her brother and the LDS Church. A few days later, Brodie released a note saying that her request for a priesthood blessing should not be misinterpreted as a request to return to the Church. It was Brodie's last signed statement. In accordance with her wishes, friends spread her ashes over the Santa Monica Mountains, which she loved and had successfully helped to protect from real estate development.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9384153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9384153", "title": "Female education", "text": "Female education\n\nFemale education is a catch-all term of a complex set of issues and debates surrounding education (primary education, secondary education, tertiary education, and health education in particular) for girls and women. It includes areas of gender equality and access to education, and its connection to the alleviation of poverty. Also involved are the issues of single-sex education and religious education, in that the division of education along gender lines as well as religious teachings on education have been traditionally dominant and are still highly relevant in contemporary discussions of educating females as a global consideration. In the field of female education in STEM, it has been shown that girls’ and women under-representation in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education is deep rooted.\n\nWhile the feminist movement certainly promoted the importance of the issues attached to female education, the discussion is wide-ranging and by no means narrowly defined. It may include, for example, AIDS education. Universal education, meaning state-provided primary and secondary education independent of gender is not yet a global norm, even if it is assumed in most developed countries.\nIn some Western countries, women have surpassed men at many levels of education. For example, in the United States in 2005/2006, women earned 62% of associate degrees, 58% of bachelor's degrees, 60% of master's degrees, and 50% of doctorates.\n\nEducation for disabled women has also improved. In 2011, Giusi Spagnolo became the first woman with Down Syndrome to graduate college in Europe (she graduated from the University of Palermo in Italy).\n\nImproving girls' educational levels has been demonstrated to have clear impacts on the health and economic future of young women, which in turn improves the prospects of their entire community . The infant mortality rate of babies whose mothers have received primary education is half that of children whose mothers are illiterate. In the poorest countries of the world, 50% of girls do not attend secondary school. Yet, research shows that every extra year of school for girls increases their lifetime income by 15%. Improving female education, and thus the earning potential of women, improves the standard of living for their own children, as women invest more of their income in their families than men do. Yet, many barriers to education for girls remain. In some African countries, such as Burkina Faso, girls are unlikely to attend school for such basic reasons as a lack of private latrine facilities for girls.\n\nHigher attendance rates of high schools and university education among women, particularly in developing countries, have helped them make inroads to professional careers with better-paying salaries and wages. Education increases a woman's (and her partner and the family's) level of health and health awareness. Furthering women's levels of education and advanced training also tends to lead to later ages of initiation of sexual activity and first intercourse, later age at first marriage, and later age at first childbirth, as well as an increased likelihood to remain single, have no children, or have no formal marriage and alternatively, have increasing levels of long-term partnerships. It can lead to higher rates of barrier and chemical contraceptive use (and a lower level of sexually transmitted infections among women and their partners and children), and can increase the level of resources available to women who divorce or are in a situation of domestic violence. It has been shown, in addition, to increase women's communication with their partners and their employers, and to improve rates of civic participation such as voting or the holding of office.\n\nIn Pakistan, a negative relationship was found between the formal level of education a woman attains and the likelihood of violence against that woman (After, 2013). The researcher used snowball convenient sampling, a sampling method where participants are referred. Ethical and privacy issues made this the most convenient method. An informant played a major role in gathering information that was then cross-checked. The sample of victims of violence was made up of married women from ages 18–60 both from rural and urban communities. The study described different forms of physical violence that are already present and provided an idea of what women go through, even across communities (rural and urban). Education in this study was stressed to be the solution and a necessity in eliminating violence. A discussion of political and social barriers is needed.\n\nThe relationship is a lot more complicated than it seems, women can be illiterate but still become empowered (Marrs Fuchsel, 2014). Immigrant Latina Women (ILW) were part of a qualitative study of 8 to 10 participant groups, at a time, and completed an 11-week program centered on self-esteem, domestic violence awareness and healthy relationships. Immigrant Latina Women (ILW) are a highly affected group by domestic violence. Though this program took place outside of a traditional classroom, dialogue, critical thinking and emotional well-being were stressed, areas that should be acquired while in school. Lastly, though many of the women were illiterate they were still able to come away with a stronger sense of control over their own lives, an important life skill.\n\nFemale Education associates with violence action towards women. The study of education and intimate partner violence (IPV). From a social causation perspective, improving women's education should protect them from violence, yet from a social selection perspective, education could proxy for unobserved factors that explain negative associations between education and IPV. Consistent with the social causation perspective, increasing women's schooling reduced both their recent and longer term probabilities of psychological, physical, and sexual IPV, as well as their recent and longer term probabilities of experiencing any IPV and polyvictimization. The results of supplemental mediation analyses provide support for three interrelated causal pathways—improvements in women's personal resources, delayed family formation, and changes in partner selection. These findings confirm the protective effects of women's education and further illuminate the mechanistic processes by which this occurs.\n\nHow to reduce the risk of IPV for women by education?\n\nFirst, increasing women's education should expand their personal resource bases, including their cognitive skills, employment opportunities, and occupational status (Psacharopoulos and Patrinos, 2004; Smith‐Greenaway, 2013).Second, the timing of secondary schooling may compete with early marriage and fertility (Duflo et al., 2007; Flórez and Núñez, 2003). If delayed entrance into marriage allows women more time to accumulate their material resources, then increasing education should implicitly provide them with more leverage to bargain with their partners and, thus, make them better able to minimize the risk of abuse or violent conflict (Kalmuss and Straus, 1982). Similarly, delaying fertility should reduce women's vulnerability to IPV by reducing the economic and physical dependence that stems from children (Kalmuss and Straus, 1982). Moreover, delaying marriage and fertility may afford women more opportunities to find personal fulfillment outside the domestic realm.Third, resource theory and family stress theory argue that the wealth or poverty of a woman's partner may affect her risk of IPV. The former, resource theory, asserts that men sometimes use violence as a way to influence relationship outcomes when they lack other means of negotiation (Felson and Messner, 2000; Fox et al., 2002; Goode, 1971). The latter, family stress theory, argues that a couples’ joint resource base affects IPV by influencing the household's level of financial stress and conflict (Fox et al., 2002). Evidence that IPV occurs more frequently in poorer households has indeed been found in several countries, including the United States, Thailand, India, and Colombia (Allen and Straus, 1980; Friedemann‐Sánchez and Lovatón, 2012; Hoffman, Demo, and Edwards, 1994; Weitzman, 2014). If a woman's education affects the characteristics of the potential partners she attracts, including their education, then having more education may reduce her likelihood of household poverty and associated financial conflict via her ability to attract partners with greater human capital.Fourth, schools are often important sites of public health campaigns, information dissemination, and socialization (Merakou et al., 2002). If women are exposed to anti‐violence messaging while in school, then this may influence their attitudes toward intimate partner violence and in turn their tolerance and/or use of violence in their own lives (Boyle et al., 2009; Gage and Hutchinson, 2006).\n\nThe experiment of seeking the relationship between female education with violence and divorce based on the data from 914 married women from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health. Women from the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health. The evidence suggests that the negative relationship between women's education and divorce is weaker when marriages involve abuse than when they do not. Supplementary analyses suggested that marital satisfaction explains some of the association among women's resources, victimization, and divorce but that marital violence continues to be a significant moderator of the education–divorce association. In sum, education appears to benefit women by both maintaining stable marriages and dissolving violent ones.\n\nWomen's educational attainment has risen dramatically in the past three decades, with the yearly number of American women awarded a 4‐year college degree now exceeding men by over 10% (National Center for Education Statistics, 2010). Accompanying this trend is an increasingly negative correlation between women's education and divorce (Amato, 2010; Cherlin, 2010). A comparison of American women who married in 1975–1979 to those who married in 1990–1994 revealed a 10% drop in the divorce rate for women with a 4‐year college degree and an 8% increase in the divorce rate for women without a high school degree (Martin, 2006). This divergence creates the current educational gradient in divorce, whereby college‐educated women are less than half as likely to get a divorce as women with a high school degree or less (Martin, 2006; McLanahan, 2004).\n\nFemale education have a tie relationship with women health. A research in Peru shows that increasing women's education is found to decrease the probability of short birth intervals and unwanted pregnancies (which may result in unsafe abortions) and to increase antenatal healthcare use, potentially owing to changes in women's cognitive skills, economic resources, and autonomy. These findings underscore the influential role of education in reducing maternal morbidity and highlight the contributions of women's education to population health and health transitions. A positive relationship between women's education and maternal health is well documented (Falkingham, 2003, Karlsen et al., 2011, Onah et al., 2006, Raghupathy, 1996).By improving women's access to schooling decreases their desired and realized fertility (Behrman, 2015a, Breierova and Duflo, 2004), delays their sexual debut (Baird et al., 2010), and improves their ability to negotiate sex (Baird et al., 2010). They've also shown that increasing women's education protects against sexually transmitted infections (Behrman, 2015b, De Neve et al., 2015) and reduces the risk of child mortality (Grépin and Bharadwaj, 2015). These effects of women's education on fertility, disease transmission, and child wellbeing give rise to the possibility that women's education affects maternal health as well: as education expands and fertility falls, women's exposure to maternal health complications should diminish alongside their number of pregnancies and births (Winikoff and Sullivan, 1987). Moreover, if education enhances health-seeking behaviors, then this may lead to the prevention and early detection of complications during pregnancy and childbirth and reduce the risk of death when complications arise (Carroli et al., 2001).\n\nThe Empress Alexandra Russian Muslim School for Girls (Russian: Александрийское императорское женское русско-мусульманское училище; Azeri: Aleksandra imperator rus-müsəlman qız məktəbi) of Baku (present-day Azerbaijan) was the first secular school for Muslim girls in the world, it was established in Baku, Azerbaijan by Z.Tagiyev, national industrial magnate and philanthropist. Despite what might seem to have been a project worthy of much praise, Zeynalabdin Taghiyev had great difficulty in gaining permission to open the school. He met with vigorous resistance; both from the Imperial Russian authorities and the conservative Muslim clergy.\n\nEducation systems vary in administration, curriculum and personnel, but all have an influence on the students that they serve. As women have gained rights, formal education has become a symbol of progress and a step toward gender equity. In order for true gender equity to exist, a holistic approach needs to be taken. The discussion of girl power and women’s education as solutions for eliminating violence against women and economic dependence on men can sometimes take dominance and result in the suppression of understanding how context, history and other factors affect women (Khoja-Moolji, 2015). For example, when past secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, referenced the tragedies of Malala Yousafzai in Pakistan and the girls kidnapping in Chibok, Nigeria as comparable, using girls’ education as the focus, history and context were ignored. What led to the shooting of Malala was reduced to being solely about her educating herself as a girl. United States interference, poverty, and government corruption and instability were not addressed.\n\nEducation systems and schools play a central role in determining girls’ interest in various subjects, including STEM subjects, which can contribute to women's empowerment by providing equal opportunities to access and benefit from quality STEM education.\n\nMicro- and macro level factors that get attention by international development agencies (IDA) vary. For example, reaching a quota of representatives in political positions (macro level) but ignoring how home life pressures (micro level) do not actually leave women at a position of free self-expression (Stromquist, 2015). IDA’s tend to focus on numbers and on information provided by the national governments. This ignores the possibility that national governments are not the most reliable or trust worthy. Programs put on by FAWE (Forum for African American Educationalists) called Tuseme clubs in Africa, which are Non Formal Education programs, are explored as they have proven successful and effective but do not get enough support from the government to be replicated. Tuseme means “let’s speak out” in Swahili and in action the programs tailor to each participating school, focusing on communication and life skills, keeping the community in mind. The program is set up as an extracurricular activity that focuses on issues through tools like school newspapers, dance and theater. In this example, education and empowerment are tackled on outside the classroom.\n\nAlong with the custom of footbinding among Chinese women that lasted through the end of the 19th century, it was recognized that a woman's virtue lay with her lack of knowledge. As a result, female education was not considered to be worthy of attention. With the arrival of numerous Christian missionaries from Britain and the US to China in the 19th century and some of them being involved in the starting of schools for women, female education started to receive some attention.\n\nDue to the social custom that men and women should not be near one another, the women of China were reluctant to be treated by male doctors of Western medicine.This resulted in a tremendous need for women in Western medicine in China.Thus, female medical missionary, Dr.Mary H. Fulton (1854-1927), was sent by the Foreign Missions Board of the Presbyterian Church (USA)to found the first medical college for women in China. Known as the Hackett Medical College for Women (夏葛女子醫學院), this College was located in Guangzhou, China, and was enabled by a large donation from Mr. Edward A.K. Hackett (1851-1916) of Indiana, United States. The College was dedicated in 1902 and offered a four-year curriculum. By 1915, there were more than 60 students, mostly in residence. Most students became Christians, due to the influence of Dr. Fulton. The College was officially recognized, with its diplomas marked with the official stamp of the Guangdong provincial government. The College was aimed at the spreading of Christianity and modern medicine and the elevation of Chinese women's social status. The David Gregg Hospital for Women and Children (also known as Yuji Hospital 柔濟醫院 was affiliated with this College. The graduates of this College included Lee Sun Chau (周理信, 1890-1979, alumna of (Belilios Public School) and WONG Yuen-hing (黃婉卿), both of whom graduated in the late 1910s and then practiced medicine in the hospitals in Guangdong province.\n\nBetween the years 1931 and 1945, the percent of uneducated women was over 90%, and most of the women who were educated had only completed the elementary level.\nIn the 1950s, after the establishment of People Republic China, the government started a civilization project. It enabled large amounts of uneducated women to learn basic writing and calculation. This project raised the proportion of educated women. It was promoted not only in cities but also in rural area. Villages had their own elementary schools. Instead of only taking care of children and chores at home, middle-aged women had chances to learn writing and reading in local schools.\n\nIn the 1980s, Chinese central government passed a new education law, which required local governments to promote 9-year obligation education nationwide The new education law guaranteed education rights until middle school. Before the 1960s, female enrollment in elementary school was 20%. 20 years after publishment of education law, in the year 1995, this percentage had increased to 98.2%. By 2003, proportion of female who dropped from middle school decreased to 2.49%.\n\nAccording to the fifth national census in 2000, the average education length of females is up to 7.4 years. This digit increases from 7.0 years to 7.4 years in 3 years. However, the female education duration is still 0.8 year less than male's duration. This gap in higher-level of education is larger in rural areas.In the countryside, parents tend to use their limited resources for sons because they believe sons have abilities to bring more back and their contributions to family in the future are more significant than daughters. In an investigation, parents are 21.9% more likely to stop financing girls' education if they come into financial problems and family issues. Boys are provided with more opportunities for further studying, especially after middle school. This difference became more evident in the universities.\n\nWhen time comes into the 21st century, university education is becoming more prevalent.The total enrollment goes up. Compare to the year of 1977, which is the first year when college entrance examination was recovered, the admission rate increased from 4.8% to 74.86%. Since the general admission has largely risen, more students got into universities. Although women are assumed to own the same rights of general education, they are forced to do better in the Chinese college entrance examination (Gaokao) than males. Girls need to achieve higher grades than male students in order to get into the same level university. It is an invisible ceiling for Chinese female, especially in the top universities. It is not a public rule but a mainstream consensus among most of Chinese university admission offices. According to a telephone interview with an officer, who declined to give her name, at the Teaching Office at the China University of Political Science and Law, \"female students must account for less than 15 percent of students because of the nature of their future career.\"\n\nWomen in Islam played an important role in the foundations of many educational institutions, such as Fatima al-Fihri's founding of the University of Al Karaouine, the oldest existing, continually operating and first degree awarding educational institution in the world according to UNESCO and Guinness World Records, in 859. This continued through to the Ayyubid dynasty in the 12th and 13th centuries, when 160 mosques (places of worship) and madrasas (places of education) were established in Damascus, 26 of which were funded by women through the Waqf (charitable trust or trust law) system. Half of all the royal patrons for these institutions were also women.\n\nAccording to the Sunni scholar Ibn Asakir, in the 12th century, there were opportunities for female education in the mediaeval Islamic world. Asakir wrote that women should study, earn \"ijazahs\" (academic degrees), and qualify as scholars and teachers. This was especially the case for learned and scholarly families, who wanted to ensure the highest possible education for both their sons and daughters. Ibn Asakir himself had studied under 80 different female teachers in his time. According to a hadith collected in the \"Saḥih\" of al-Bukhārī, the women of Medina who aided Muhammad were notable for not letting social mores restrain their education in religious knowledge.\n\nWhile it was unusual for females to enroll as students in formal classes, it was common for women to attend informal lectures and study sessions at mosques, madrasas, and other public places. While there were no legal restrictions on female education, some men, such as Muhammad ibn al-Hajj (d. 1336), did not approve of this practice and were appalled at the behaviour of some women who informally audited lectures in his time.\n\nWhile women accounted for no more than one percent of Islamic scholars prior to the 12th century, there was a large increase of female scholars after this. In the 15th century, al-Sakhawi devoted an entire volume of his 12-volume biographical dictionary \"\" to female scholars, giving information on 1,075 of them. More recently, the scholar Mohammad Akram Nadwi, currently a researcher from the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, has written 40 volumes on the (the women scholars of ), and found at least 8,000 of them.\n\nWomen's unequal status in the Muslim world has been the subject of widespread debate. Comparing to other country,women in the Middle East and other Muslim‐majority countries tend to have fewer years of schooling, on average, lower rates of labor force participation, less representation in politics, and wider gender gaps on these measures compared with women in other countries (Cherif 2010; Fish 2002; Rahman 2012; M.L. Ross 2008). Low education levels among women in Muslim‐majority countries are part of a broader clash of civilizations between traditional or conservative Islam and the West over issues related to gender and sexuality. Drawing on data from the World Values Survey, Inglehart and Norris (2003) find that, compared with residents of Western countries, larger shares of Muslims support traditional gender roles for men and women and say higher education is more important for boys than for girls.\n\nConservative gender norms and sexual mores could shape Muslim women's educational attainment through a number of pathways. If girls are expected to become wives and mothers at young ages, families may see little need to invest in their daughters’ education, especially if the financial and opportunity costs are high and gender segregation of the labor market offers little hope for strong economic returns (Lehrer 1999). Girls may also internalize gendered expectations and either perform poorly in school or end their schooling earlier than boys (Buchmann, DiPrete, and McDaniel 2008). High‐achieving girls might also face discrimination in the classroom or be prevented from advancing through school. The influence of cultural values could also be indirect: for instance, early marriage and childbearing could interrupt girls’ schooling, leading to lower attainment (Johnson‐Hanks 2006; Takyi and Addai 2002). Higher fertility, too, may stretch families’ resources and lead to lower investment in daughters’ educational opportunities (Buchmann and Hannum 2001). Finally, widely held conservative gender attitudes may influence how governments allocate resources for women's education (Østby, Urdal, and Rudolfsen 2016).\n\nMuslim women's educational disadvantage might also be rooted more in the past than in the present.contemporary religious differences in women's education levels may be left over from an era when religious beliefs and attitudes were more tightly linked to educational outcomes. Economic and structural barriers may still prevent some countries and groups from achieving universal access to education or increasing enrollments in secondary or higher education to Western levels (Østby, Urdal, and Rudolfsen 2016). But religious differences in women's education and gender equality should be diminishing over time as countries and regions that were further behind, in part for religious reasons, catch up with the West, where education levels have reached a plateau (Courbage and Todd 2007; Fukuyama 1992).\n\nGlobal discourses on women’s education are also grounded in a mod- ern versus traditional binary, where the West is seen as progressive, mod- ern, and secular and Muslim societies are positioned as backward, traditional, and religious (Abu-Lughod 2009; Ahmed 1992; Asad 2003; Mahmood 2005; Scott 2007). In these international projects, women’s education becomes an individualistic and market-oriented goal, whereas Islam is treated as a challenge that restricts women’s access to schools, job markets, and political participation (Abu-Lughod 2009; Cornwall 2007; Kandiyoti 2005). Reconfigurations of gender, class, and Islam produced new regulations as well as new possibilities for middle-class Muslim women.For women, being educated through practicing politeness, orderliness, thrift, cleanliness, accounting, and hygiene was set in opposi- tion to the coarse, vulgar, loud, quarrelsome, and sexually promiscuous “un-Islamic” mannerisms associated with lower-class females.\n\nSince the 1979 revolution, Iran was under control of Islamic rules, the progress of female education was affected by Islamic ecclesiocracy. Women are forced to wear veiling and are prevented from going to the same school as male students. Female students have to learn different versions of textbooks, which are special editions only for female students. Unmarried women are ineligible for financial aid if they attempt to study abroad. Throughout the past 30 years, the issue of female education has been constantly under debate.\n\nIranian women do have desires and abilities to pursue further education. An Iranian high school student can earn a diploma after studying 3 years. If students aim to enter colleges, they will stay in the high schools for the fourth year study, which has very intense study. According to researches, 42% of female students choose to have fourth year in the high school but only 28% of male students choose to study in order to enter university. Moreover, women have a much higher probability than men to pass college entrance exams. Islamic female are in need of achieving higher education and truth proved that their abilities are enough for getting higher education. The education opportunities for female need more national attention and less regulations.\n\nDuring 1978 and 1979, the proportion of women who participated in universities as students or faculties was rather low. 31% of students admitted to universities were women. For faculty gender composition, there are 14% female. This situation has changed with time passing by. University enrollment was decreased under the influence of Iranian Cultural Revolution. The general enrollment population declined during that time. After the cultural revolution, the amount of enrollment was going up. The increase in the number of university students is accompanied with an increase in female rate.\n\nIslamic higher education contains 5 levels. The 5 levels are associate, bachelor's, master's, professional doctorate and specialized doctorate. Before the revolution, the gender gap is obvious in master level and specialized doctorate, which are only 20% and 27%. It has changed after 30 years. In 2007, the female percent in master's degree rose up to 43% and for specialized doctorate degree, this data rose up to 33%.\n\nFemale rate has not only increased in the students but also in faculty. 20 years ago, only 6% of all professors and 8% of all associated professors were women. Now 8% of all professors and 17% of all associated professors are female.\n\nWhile formal education is prevalent amongst Iranian women, non-formal educational intuitions are an option as well. Non-formal education in the Islamic Republic of Iran originated from the Literary Movement Organization (LMO), which aspired to decrease illiteracy rates in the country. Established in 1984, LMO’s tremendous efforts rectified the Pahlavi regime’s neglect in regards to educating children and populations in rural areas. In the late 1980s, LMO created adult literacy programs, vocational-technical schools, and religious institutions to combat high illiteracy rates. Adult literacy programs teach introductory reading, writing, and math in two cycles. While reading, writing, dictation, and arithmetic are introduced in the first cycle, the second cycle delves into Islamic studies, experimental and social sciences, and the Persian language. Although these educational organizations are gender inclusive, they mainly cater to women; in fact, 71% of enrollees are women between the ages of 15-45. Throughout the 1990s, two-thirds of enrollees in literacy programs were women, which directly led to a dramatic rise (20%) in female literacy rates in Iran from 1987 to 1997.\n\nReligious schools are another educational route for Iranian women. Their popularity is illustrated by the rise in the institution of \"female seminaries\" as of 2010. In 1984, Ayatollah Khomeini, former supreme leader of Iran, called for the creation of Jami‘at al-Zahra, an alliance of smaller religious schools. This led to the creation of the first female seminary in Iran. These institutions offer the opportunity to earn anything from high school diplomas to doctoral degrees. The acceptance rate for women into these religious institutions was 28% in 2010 (7,000 accepted out of 25,000 applicants).\n\nNewlyweds (women specifically) are educated on family planning, safe sex, and birth control in population control programs. In addition, the government has established rural health houses managed by local health workers. These health professionals travel to different areas in order to impart information about women’s health and birth control.\n\nIn ancient Rome, upperclass women seem to have been well-educated, some highly so, and were sometimes praised by male historians of the time for their learning and cultivation. Cornelia Metella, for instance, was distinguished for her knowledge of geometry, literature, music, and philosophy. In the wall paintings of Pompeii, women are more likely than men to be pictured with writing implements. Some women had sufficient knowledge of Roman the law and oratorical training to conduct court cases on their own behalf, or on behalf of others. Among occupations that required education, women could be scribes and secretaries, calligraphers, and artists.\n\nSome and perhaps many Roman girls went to a ludus. Boys and girls were educated either together or with similar methods and curriculum. One passage in Livy's history assumes that the daughter of a centurion would be in school; the social rank of a centurion was typically equivalent to modern perceptions of the \"middle class\". Girls as well as boys participated in public religious festivals, and sang advanced choral compositions that would require formal musical training.\n\nMedieval education for females was typically tied to a convent. Research has uncovered that several early women educators were in charge of schools for girls:\n\nSt. Ita of Ireland - died 570 AD. Founder and teacher of a co-ed school for girls and boys at her monastery of Cell Ide. Several important saints studied under her, including St. Brendan the Navigator.\n\nCaesaria the Younger - died 550 AD. Successor to the sister of St. Caesarius and abbess of the convent he founded for her nuns, Caesaria the Younger continued the teaching of over a hundred women at the convent and aided in the copying and preservation of books.\n\nSt. Hilda of Whitby - died 680 AD. Founder of the co-ed monastery of Whitby (men and women lived in separate houses), she established a center of education in her monastery similar to what was founded by the Frankish nuns. According to the Venerable Bede, \"Her prudence was so great, that not only meaner men in their need, but sometimes even kings and princes, sought and received her counsel.\"\n\nSt. Bertilla - died c. 700 AD. Queen Bathild requested her services for the convent she had founded at Chelle. Her pupils founded convents in other parts of western Europe, including Saxony.\n\nSt. Leoba - died 782 AD. St. Boniface requested her presence on his mission to the Germans and while there she founded an influential convent and school.\n\nSt. Bede the Venerable reports that noble-women were often sent to these schools for girls even if they did not intend to pursue the religious life, and St. Aldhelm praised their curriculum for including grammar, poetry, and Scriptural study. The biography of Sts. Herlinda and Renilda also demonstrates that women in these convent schools could be trained in art and music.\n\nDuring the reign of Emperor Charlemagne, he had his wife and daughters educated in the liberal arts at the Palace Academy of Aachen, for which he is praised in the Vita Karolini Magni. There is evidence that other nobles had their daughters educated at the Palace Academy as well. In line with this, authors such as Vincent of Beauvais indicate that the daughters of the nobility were widely given to education so that they could live up to their social position to come.\n\nIn early modern Europe, the question of female education had become a commonplace one, in other words a literary topos for discussion. Around 1405 Leonardo Bruni wrote \"De studies et letteris\", addressed to Baptista di Montefeltro, the daughter of Antonio II da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino; it commends the study of Latin, but warns against arithmetic, geometry, astrology and rhetoric. In discussing the classical scholar Isotta Nogarola, however, Lisa Jardine notes that (in the middle of the 15th century), \"‘Cultivation’ is in order for a noblewoman; formal competence is positively unbecoming.\" Christine de Pisan's \"Livre des Trois Vertus\" is contemporary with Bruni's book, and \"sets down the things which a lady or baroness living on her estates ought to be able to do\".\n\nIn his 1516 book \"Utopia\", Thomas More advocated for women to have the right to education.\n\nErasmus wrote at length about education in \"De pueris instituendis\" (1529, written two decades before); not mostly concerned with female education, in this work he does mention with approbation the trouble Thomas More took with teaching his whole family. Catherine of Aragon \"had been born and reared in one of the most brilliant and enlightened of European courts, where the cultural equality of men and women was normal\". By her influence, she made education for English women both popular and fashionable. In 1523, Juan Luis Vives, a follower of Erasmus, wrote in Latin his \"De institutione feminae Christianae\". This work was commissioned by Catherine, who had charge of the education of her daughter for the future Queen Mary I of England; in translation it appeared as \"Education of a Christian Woman\". It is in line with traditional didactic literature, taking a strongly religious direction. It also placed a strong emphasis on Latin literature. Also Comenius was an advocate of formal education for women. In fact his emphasis was on a type of universal education making no distinction between humans; with an important component allowed to parental input, he advocated in his \"Pampaedia\" schooling rather than other forms of tutoring, for all.\n\nThe Reformation prompted the establishment of compulsory education for boys and girls. Most important was Martin Luther's text 'An die Ratsherren aller Städte deutschen Landes,' (1524) with the call for establishing schools for both girls and boys. Especially the Protestant South-West of the Holy Roman Empire, with cities like Strassburg, became pioneers in educational questions. Under the influence of Strasbourg in 1592 the German Duchy Pfalz-Zweibrücken became the first territory of the world with compulsory education for girls and boys.\n\nElizabeth I of England had a strong humanist education, and was praised by her tutor Roger Ascham. She fits the pattern of education for leadership, rather than for the generality of women. When Johannes Sturm published Latin correspondence with Ascham centred on the achievements in humanist study of Elizabeth and other high-ranking English persons, in Konrad Heresbach's \"De laudibus Graecarum literarum oratio\" (1551), the emphasis was on the nobility of those tackling the classics, rather than gender.\n\nThe issue of female education in the large, as emancipatory and rational, is broached seriously in the Enlightenment. Mary Wollstonecraft, who worked as a teacher, governess, and school-owner, wrote of it in those terms. Her first book was \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\", years before the publication of \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\".\n\nThe Commission of National Education in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, founded in 1777, considered the first Ministry of Education in history, was a central, autonomous body responsible for nationwide, secular and coeducational training. In the late 19th century, in what was then the Russian province of Poland, in response to the lack of higher training for women, the so-called Flying University was organized, where women were taught covertly by Polish scholars and academics. Its most famous student was Maria Skłodowska-Curie, better known as Marie Curie, who went on to win two Nobel Prizes.\n\nMuch education was channelled through religious establishments. Not all of these educated women only for marriage and motherhood; for example, Quaker views on women had allowed much equality from the foundation of the denomination in the mid-17th century. The abolitionist William Allen and his wife Grizell Hoare set up the Newington Academy for Girls in 1824, teaching an unusually wide range of subjects from languages to sciences. The first state-financed higher education institution for women in Europe, was established by Catherine II of Russia\n\nActual progress in institutional terms, for secular education of women, began in the West in the 19th century, with the founding of colleges offering single-sex education to young women. These appeared in the middle of the century. \"The Princess: A Medley\", a narrative poem by Alfred Lord Tennyson, is a satire of women's education, still a controversial subject in 1848, when Queen's College first opened in London. Emily Davies campaigned for women's education in the 1860s, and founded Girton College in 1869, as did Anne Clough found Newnham College in 1875. Progress was gradual, and often depended on individual efforts - for example, those of Frances Lupton, which led to the founding of the Leeds Girls' High School in 1876. W. S. Gilbert parodied Tennyson's poem and treated the themes of women's higher education and feminism in general with \"The Princess\" in (1870) and \"Princess Ida\" in 1883.\n\nOnce women began to graduate from institutions of higher education, there steadily developed also a stronger academic stream of schooling, and the teacher training of women in larger numbers, principally to provide primary education. Women's access to traditionally all-male institutions took several generations to become complete.\n\nThe interrelated themes of barriers to education and employment continued to form the backbone of feminist thought in the 19th century, as described, for instance by Harriet Martineau in her 1859 article \"Female Industry\" in the \"Edinburgh Journal\". Despite the changes in the economy, the position of women in society had not greatly improved and unlike Frances Power Cobbe, Martineau did not support the emerging call for the vote for practical reasons.\n\nSlowly the efforts of women like Emily Davies and the Langham group (under Barbara Leigh Smith Bodichon) started to make inroads. Queen's College (1848) and Bedford College (1849) in London started to offer some education to women, and by 1862 Davies was establishing a committee to persuade the universities to allow women to sit for the recently established (1858) Cambridge Local Examinations, with partial success (1865). A year later she published \"The Higher Education of Women.\" She and Bodichon founded the first higher educational institution for women, with five students, which became Girton College, Cambridge in 1873, followed by Lady Margaret Hall at Oxford in 1879. Bedford had started awarding degrees the previous year. Despite these measurable advances, few could take advantage of them and life for women students was very difficult.\n\nAs part of the continuing dialogue between British and American feminists, Elizabeth Blackwell, the first woman in the US to graduate in medicine (1849), lectured in Britain with Langham support. They also supported Elizabeth Garrett’s attempts to assail the walls of British medical education against strong opposition; she eventually took her degree in France. Garrett's successful campaign to run for office on the London School Board in 1870 is another example of how a small band of determined women were starting to reach positions of influence at the level of local government and public bodies.\n\nChristian missionaries in the 19th century opened modern educational methods, but they usually focused on boys. After early experiments they settled on promoting ideology of domestic femininity imparted through girls' schooling. In South Africa after 1820, male Scottish missionaries decided that only the most basic education was necessary to prepare native women for the propagation of Christianity within the home. They prevented female teachers from operating in the Scottish mission's territory. They delayed the establishment of a Girls' Department at Lovedale Institution. Finally new leadership arrived who had a broader vision of uplifting native women so they could promote Christianity and Western gender codes.\nMuslims from India who came to East Africa in the late 19th century brought along a highly restrictive policy against schooling for their girls.\n\nAs of 2015, Priscilla Sitienei is attending elementary school in Kenya at age 92; if confirmed by the Guinness World Records, she would be the oldest student in elementary school.\n\nWomen's education in West Africa manifested in both formal and informal structures, with one of the more notable structures that had influence on women's education being preparatory schools labeled \"Bush Schools.\" These bush schools were institutions that would oftentimes boast near 100% graduation rates and completed courses. They were organized by women and had a planned, structured curriculum, which included learning how to do skills such as learning how to \"fish, cook, weave, spin cotton, dress hair, and make baskets, musical instruments, pots, and fishing nets.\" Much of the scholarship and research on these schools arises from the Bundu schools of Sierra Leone. In addition to these skills, girls would often be given reproductive education, such as birth control techniques or child rearing skills. In particular to the Bundu schools, women would be given an intense education in medicinal herbs and home medicinal skills. These schools didn't just teach educational curriculum (such as history passed on through songs and dances), but enabled the transmission of cultural values and were centers of female power. Despite the colonial and post-colonial ideal that women ought to be educated just to serve decorative or child-bearing maternal roles, these institutions taught women to play central economic, corporate and familial roles in their communities.\n\nEarly colonial forms of education on the West African coasts, particularly among the Dahomey, Asante and Yorùbá people, were pioneered by missionaries and institutions that were trying to educate religious thought in addition to teaching more traditional western educational topics such as reading and writing. As early as 1529, King John III of Portugal had given instruction to open schools and provide education in \"religious thought, reading and writing\" and for the instructors to be paid by the pupil. For women in particular however, these colonial forms of education brought with them European ideals of women's roles in the family, society and economy. These Western ideas of womanhood oftentimes contrasted with women's roles in the economy, society, or in the home. For example, Igbo women had associations known as Mikiri, which were economic and social forums for women in which they discussed direct action to enforce their interests, that were largely misunderstood and disregarded by the British colonial government. Hence, as the British colonial government introduced schools to the region, they ignored educating women to fill economic roles in the community. In fact, the educational ideal of men as \"breadwinners\", i.e. the primary financial support of a nuclear family structure, was introduced by the British colonial state in West Africa.\n\nOne of the groups of people that the colonial governments in West Africa put heavy import on educating were the mixed children of white people, typically men, and indigenous people, typically women. In pre-British colonist state Ghana, when much of the interaction between indigenous people and Europeans was through Dutch traders, mixed race children of traders and indigenous people were removed from their indigenous communities and placed in Dutch educational institutions in Ghana. In these early colonial schools the education was also gendered by Western standards: the boys were educated from a young age to be military officers in the Dutch army and the girls were educated to be married to Dutch military officers in the region.\n\nOne of the other ways through which colonizing countries were able to exert influence and indirect rule over the indigenous people was through maternal education. In colonial Ghana, Methodist missionaries led classes teaching western methods of hygiene and child birth to the indigenous mothers or mothers-to-be. The missionaries tried to construct an ideal of motherhood that matched white European middle-class standards, irrespective of the social context of the ideals of motherhood in place in the Asante societies they were located in.\n\nIn post-colonial West Africa, many of the ideals of Western education have remained while much of the infrastructure and funding left with the colonial presence. Particularly in Nigeria, formal education was seen as a policy making tool, as women's formal education has been linked to having effects on \"population growth, health, nutrition, fertility, infant mortality, and changes in women's productivity and earnings.\" Researchers have cited some disadvantages however to this reliance on women's formal education. One, there is concern for women being alienated from their indigenous cultures and not receiving the education in values that were typically received through pre-colonial indigenous educational systems. In addition, there is an increasing body of literature that suggests how the formal education institutions channel women into particular lower-earning job fields such as the humanities, while guiding women away from more technical jobs with higher wages.\n\nIn regards to academic achievement, according to the FAWE Conference girls across the Sub-Saharan region reported lower scores in Math and Science subjects. The tendency for girls to be pushed into clerical positions upon finishing school is also a widely researched and held belief. Despite this, formal education offers many benefits recognized internationally. The Fourth United Nations World Conference on Women has released publications citing numerous ways through which women's education in Africa is beneficial to society as a whole. These entail an increase in family health, in higher wage jobs available to women, an improvement in quality standards of childhood development, and a greater inclusion of women in decisions making that can impact a nation in environmental, political, social and economic ways. Despite there being a drop in participation of women in education in the majority of countries in West Africa in the 1950s and 1960s, rates of women education have been steadily climbing since then. However, there is still much statistical gender disparity as according to UNESCO statistics on women's enrollment and graduation rates.\n\nOne of the primary ways in which there are gender disparities in education in West Africa are in the ratios of male to female participation: 43.6% of men have completed primary education as opposed to 35.4% of women, 6.0% of men have completed secondary education as opposed to 3.3% of women, and 0.7% of men have completed tertiary education as opposed to 0.2% of women. Some of the reasons for poor enrollment and participation is the \"male breadwinner\" ideal that prioritizes educating boys over girls and limited funds available to families for education. In addition, in West Africa women are seen as the primary providers of unpaid care work. This offers competing demands on the time of girls and oftentimes their families will prioritize girls' spending time taking care of siblings or doing domestic labor. In addition, a leading cause of gender disparities in education are gender disparities in the labor market, which lead to gendered ideas of women's role in a society.\n\nIn addition to this, some gender disparities are caused by teacher's attitudes towards students in the classroom according to the students' gender. There are some preconceived notions that boys are more intelligent and harder working than girls in some West African countries. In particular in Guinea, surveys have been taken by researchers suggesting that school teachers, particularly in rural schools, believe that boys learn lessons better, have more ambition, are smarter, and work harder, while girls make less effort, rarely give good responses to questions, and use poor French expression. In addition in both urban and rural schools analyzed, girls were expected to do the manual labor to keep the schools clean while this expectation was not held for the boys.\n\nGender disparities in higher education persist as well, with women accounting for a little over 20% of university level enrollment in all of Sub-Saharan Africa, and countries in West Africa such as Niger and Ghana reporting rates of 15% and 21%, respectively. This is considered a contributing factor to why there are so few women in higher level management and administrative jobs. In Ghana in 1990, women made up less than 1% of managers in the labor market, but with an average annual growth rate of 3.2%. Researchers hope that improving primary education attainment and accomplishment will lead to more attainment and accomplishment in the tertiary educational level and in the labor market.\n\nThe history of female education in India has its roots in ancient Vedic age.\n\nDuring the Vedic age, more than 3,000 years ago, women were assigned a high place in society. They shared an equal standing with their men folk and enjoyed a kind of liberty that actually had societal sanctions. The ancient Hindu philosophical concept of 'shakti', the feminine principle of energy, was also a product of this age. This took the form of worship of the female idols or goddesses. In India even today people worship Goddess \"Saraswati\" as the Goddess of education. Vedic literature praises the birth of a scholarly daughter in these words: \"A girl also should be brought up and educated with great effort and care.\" (Mahanirvana Tantra); and \"All forms of knowledge are aspects of Thee; and all women throughout the world are Thy forms.\" (Devi Mahatmya).\n\nWomen, who so desired, could undergo the sacred thread ceremony or 'Upanayana' (a sacrament to pursue Vedic studies), which is only meant for males even to this day. The mention of female scholars and sages of the Vedic age like Vac, Ambhrni, Romasa, Gargi, Khona in the Vedic lore corroborates this view. These highly intelligent and greatly learned women, who chose the path of Vedic studies, were called 'brahmavadinis', and women who opted out of education for married life were called 'sadyovadhus'. Co-education seems to have existed in this period and both the sexes got equal attention from the teacher. Moreover, ladies from the Kshatriya caste received martial arts courses and arms training. The Vedas have volumes to say about these women, who both complemented and supplemented their male partners.\n\nAlthough in the Vedic period women had access to education in India, they had gradually lost this right. However, in the British period there was revival of interest in women’s education in India. During this period, various socio religious movements led by eminent persons like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar emphasized on women’s education in India. Mahatma Jyotiba Phule, Periyar and Baba Saheb Ambedkar were leaders of the lower castes in India who took various initiatives to make education available to the women of India.\n\nWomen of the Vedic period (circa 1500-1200 BCE), were epitomes of intellectual and spiritual attainments. The Vedas have volumes to say about these women, who both complemented and supplemented their male partners. When it comes to talking about significant female figures of the Vedic period, four names - Ghosha, Lopamudra, Sulabha Maitreyi, and Gargi - come to mind.\n\nVedic wisdom is encapsulated in myriad hymns and 27 women-seers emerge from them. But most of them are mere abstractions except for a few, such as Ghosha, who has a definite human form. Granddaughter of Dirghatamas and daughter of Kakshivat, both composers of hymns (mainly saying good about someone)\n\nThe Rig Veda ('Royal Knowledge') has long conversations between the sage Agasthya and his wife Lopamudra that testifies to the great intelligence and goodness of the latter. As the legend goes, Lopamudra was created by sage Agasthya and was given as a daughter to the King of Vidarbha. The royal couple gave her the best possible education and brought her up amidst luxury. When she attained a marriageable age, Agasthya, the sage who was under vows of celibacy and poverty, wanted to own her. Lopa agreed to marry him, and left her palace for Agasthya's hermitage. After serving her husband faithfully for a long period, Lopa grew tired of his austere practices. She wrote a hymn of two stanzas making an impassioned plea for his attention and love. Soon afterwards, the sage realized his duties towards his wife and performed both his domestic and ascetic life with equal zeal, reaching a wholeness of spiritual and physical powers. A son was born to them. He was named Dridhasyu, who later became a great poet.\n\nThe Rig Veda contains about one thousand hymns, of which about 10 are accredited to Maitreyi, the woman seer and philosopher. She contributed towards the enhancement of her sage-husband Yajnavalkya's personality and the flowering of his spiritual thoughts. Yajnavalkya had two wives Maitreyi and Katyayani. While Maitreyi was well versed in the Hindu scriptures and was a 'brahmavadini', Katyayani was an ordinary woman. One day the sage decided to make a settlement of his worldly possessions between his two wives and renounce the world by taking up ascetic vows. He asked his wives their wishes. The learned Maitreyi asked her husband if all the wealth in the world would make her immortal. The sage replied that wealth could only make one rich, nothing else. She then asked for the wealth of immortality. Yajnavalkya was happy to hear this, and imparted Maitreyi the doctrine of the soul and his knowledge of attaining immortality.\n\nGargi, the Vedic prophetess and daughter of sage Vachaknu, composed several hymns that questioned the origin of all existence. When King Janak of Videha organized a 'brahmayajna', a philosophic congress centered around the fire sacrament, Gargi was one of the eminent participants. She challenged the sage Yajnavalkya with a volley of perturbing questions on the soul or 'atman' that confounded the learned man who had till then silenced many an eminent scholar. Her question - \"The layer that is above the sky and below the earth, which is described as being situated between the earth and the sky and which is indicated as the symbol of the past, present and future, where is that situated?\" - bamboozled even the great Vedic men of letters.\n\nThe Church Missionary Society tasted greater success in South India. The first boarding school for girls came up in Tirunelveli in 1821. By 1840 the Scottish Church Society constructed six schools with roll strength of 200 Hindu girls. When it was mid-century, the missionaries in Madras had included under its banner, 8,000 girls.\nWomen's employment and education was acknowledged in 1854 by the East Indian Company's Programme: Wood's Dispatch. Slowly, after that, there was progress in female education, but it initially tended to be focused on the primary school level and was related to the richer sections of society. The overall literacy rate for women increased from 0.2% in 1882 to 6% in 1947.\n\nIn western India, Jyotiba Phule and his wife Savitri Bai became pioneers of female education when they started a school for girls in 1848 in Pune. In eastern India, apart from important contributions by eminent Indian social reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, John Elliot Drinkwater Bethune was also a pioneer in promoting women's education in 19th-century India. With participation of like-minded social reformers like Ramgopal Ghosh, Raja Dakshinaranjan Mukherjee and Pandit Madan Mohan Tarkalankar, he established Calcutta's (now Kolkata) first school for girls in 1849 called the secular Native Female School, which later came to be known as Bethune School. In 1879, Bethune College, affiliated to the University of Calcutta, was established which is the oldest women's college in Asia.\n\nIn 1878, the University of Calcutta became one of the first universities to admit female graduates to its degree programmes, before any of the British universities had later done the same. This point was raised during the Ilbert Bill controversy in 1883, when it was being considered whether Indian judges should be given the right to judge British offenders. The role of women featured prominently in the controversy, where English women who opposed the bill argued that Bengali women, whom they stereotyped as \"ignorant\" and neglected by their men and that Indian men should therefore not be given the right to judge cases involving English women. Bengali women who supported the bill responded by claiming that they were more educated than the English women opposed to the bill and pointed out that more Indian women had degrees than British women did at the time.\n\nAfter India attained independence in 1947, the University Education Commission was created to recommend suggestions to improve the quality of education. However, their report spoke against female education, referring to it as: \"Women's present education is entirely irrelevant to the life they have to lead. It is not only a waste but often a definite disability.\"\n\nHowever, the fact that the female literacy rate was at 8.9% post-Independence could not be ignored. Thus, in 1958, a national committee on women's education was appointed by the government, and most of its recommendations were accepted. The crux of its recommendations were to bring female education on the same footing as offered for boys.\n\nSoon afterwards, committees were created that talked about equality between men and women in the field of education. For example, one committee on differentiation of curriculum for boys and girls (1959) recommended equality and a common curricula at various stages of their learning. Further efforts were made to expand the education system, and the Education Commission was set up in 1964, which largely talked about female education, which recommended a national policy to be developed by the government. This occurred in 1968, providing increased emphasis on female education.\n\nBefore and after Independence, India has been taking active steps towards women's status and education. The 86th Constitutional Amendment Act, 2001, has been a path breaking step towards the growth of education, especially for females. According to this act, elementary education is a fundamental right for children between the ages of 6 and 14. The government has undertaken to provide this education free of cost and make it compulsory for those in that age group. This undertaking is more widely known as Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).\n\nSince then, the SSA has come up with many schemes for inclusive as well as exclusive growth of Indian education as a whole, including schemes to help foster the growth of female education.\n\nThe major schemes are the following:\n\n\nOne notable success came in 2013, when the first two girls ever scored in the top 10 ranks of the entrance exam to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). Sibbala Leena Madhuri ranked eighth, and Aditi Laddha ranked sixth.\n\nIn addition, the status and literacy rates between West Bengal and Mizoram were found to be profound; a study compared the two states as they took on politically different approaches to helping empower women (Ghosh, Chakravarti, & Mansi, 2015). In West Bengal, literacy rates were found to be low even after fulfilling the 73rd amendment from 1992. The amendment established affirmative action by allotting 33% of seats at panchayats, or local self-governments, to women. Mizoram chose not to partake in the 73rd Amendment but has seen greater literacy rates, it is second highest in the country, and also has a better sex ratio. It was thus found that affirmative actions steps alone were not enough. Women also need to be given the opportunity to develop through formal education to be empowered to serve and profit from holding these public leadership roles.\n\nDespite the fact that many girls stop their education after school, the number of girls seeking admission to universities is growing so rapidly that the problem of admission to colleges is becoming more and more difficult. The num  ber of students, both men and women, who enrolled in colleges at the end of the First Plan was 7,20,000 as against 4,20,000 five years earlier, during which period the number passing out as holders of degrees and higher examinations rose from 41,000 to 58,000.After a good multipurpose school education a girl comes to a University, well-equipped, keen and happy, ready to take up a further three years course in a college. Women’s colleges, though increasing in number, however, could still further be increased, as is the intention of both Central and State Governments. Here(resident school) is nothing so good for a girl its a healthy, congenial hostel life. Here she learns to be cosmo politan, to help her weaker sister, to break caste rules, re actionary customs and creed prejudices and to live a life of service to her Alma Mater. This training which a girl auto matically receives when staying in a residential college fits her for a better and more useful life in the years that follow and serves the main purpose of education, which is better living.The syllabus therefore in colleges should be the same for girls as for boys am all cqllegies should not include the Home Sciences as compulsory course.\n\nThe Canadian start-up Decode Global has developed the mobile game Get Water!, a game for social change focusing on the water scarcity in India and the effect it has on girls' education, especially in slums and rural areas. In areas with no ready access to water, girls are often pulled out of school to collect water for their families.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic tradition, concern for female education has expressed itself from the days of the Catechetical School of Alexandria, which in the 200s AD had courses for both men and women. Later Church writers such as St. Ambrose, St. Augustine, and St. Jerome all left letters of instruction for women in convents that they either founded or supported. In the medieval ages, several religious institutes were established with ministries addressing women's education. For medieval examples of convent schools, which are one form of such institutions, see the examples at the section on the medieval period. In the early modern period, this tradition was continued with the Ursulines (1535) and the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary (1849). Contemporary convent schools are usually not restricted to Catholic pupils. Students in contemporary convent education may be boys (particularly in India).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28859483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28859483", "title": "Hanan Yoran", "text": "Hanan Yoran\n\nHanan Yoran is a lecturer in the department of History at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Ahva Academic College and at the Interdisciplinary Center, Israel.\n\nHanan Yoran studied for his BA degree in Mathematics and Computer Science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and graduated in 1987. In 1999 he completed his PhD at the Cohn Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science and Ideas at the Tel Aviv University, under the supervision of Professor Rivka Feldhay and Professor Miriam Eliav Feldon. The title of the dissertation was: \"Erasmus and Thomas More between the Republic of Letters and the World of Politics\".\n\nHanan Yoran main field of interest is intellectual and cultural history of early modern Europe, especially the various historical and theoretical aspects of the questions of modernity and secularization. His research focuses on Renaissance humanism, as the intellectual current that undermined the premises of classical and medieval intellectual tradition, and elaborated new language for understanding and representing reality. From this perspective he examined in his book, entitled \"Between Utopia and Dystopia: Erasmus, Thomas More and the Humanist Republic of Letters\", the construction of the identity of the universal intellectual—the autonomous man of letters whose activity do not represent the ideology of a distinct social group, but rather the common good (as he understands it) – by the Erasmus and the humanists gathered around him in the beginning of the 16th century. Yoran also exposed the problems and paradoxes of inherent in this identity as well as the inability of the Erasmian humanists to account for and legitimize it in their own terms. From a similar theoretical point of view, Yoran examined in several articles the ethical and political views developed by various humanists, including More, Lorenzo Valla, the Florentine civic humanists and Machiavelli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204492", "title": "Helge Ingstad", "text": "Helge Ingstad\n\nHelge Marcus Ingstad (30 December 1899 – 29 March 2001) was a Norwegian explorer. After mapping some Norse settlements, Ingstad and his wife Anne Stine, an archaeologist, in 1960 found remnants of a Viking settlement in L'Anse aux Meadows in the province of Newfoundland in Canada. They were thus the first to prove conclusively that the Icelandic Norsemen such as Leif Erickson had found a way across the Atlantic Ocean to North America, roughly 500 years before Christopher Columbus and John Cabot. He also thought that the mysterious disappearance of the Greenland Viking settlement in the 14/15th century could be explained by their emigration to North America.\n\nHelge Ingstad died at Diakonhjemmet Hospital in Oslo at the age of 101.\n\nHelge Ingstad was the son of Olav Ingstad (1867–1958) and Olga Marie Qvam (1869–1946) in Meråker, Nord-Trøndelag. His father was municipal engineer in Tromsø and held the title of factory supervisor. He was the grandson of lawyer professor, Marcus Pløen Ingstad. Helge and his family moved to Bergen in 1915 where he attended the Bergen Katedralskole (1915–1918), and after graduating cand. jur. in 1922 he took up a practice of lawyer in Levanger.\nHelge Ingstad was originally a lawyer by profession, but, ever an outdoorsman, he sold his successful law practice in Levanger and went to Canada's Northwest Territories as a trapper in 1926. For the next three years, the Norwegian travelled with the local Indian tribe known as the Caribou Eaters. After returning to Norway, he wrote the bestselling \"Pelsjegerliv\" (\"Trapper Life\") about his time in Canada, published in English as \"The Land of Feast and Famine\" (Knopf, 1933).\n\nIngstad was the governor (Sysselmann) of Erik the Red's Land in 1932–33, when Norway annexed that eastern part of Greenland. The Permanent Court of International Justice in The Hague decided that the lands belonged to Denmark, and so the official Norwegian presence had to end. Following the verdict, Ingstad was summoned by the government to the job as governor of Svalbard (Spitsbergen and the surrounding islands) — a position suiting him uniquely, considering his profession of law and his experience in Arctic living.\n\nDuring his years on Svalbard Helge Ingstad met Anne Stine Moe, nearly twenty years his junior. She had read his books from Canada and Greenland with great admiration, and developed a crush on the explorer; she wrote to him, and after some time of correspondence and dating they were engaged, and married in 1941. In 1946, the Ingstads made themselves a home near the Holmenkollen area of Norway's capital, Oslo, where they spent the rest of their lives when not travelling the world. They had one daughter, Benedicte, who became a professor in medical anthropology at the University in Oslo. From her teenage years, Benedicte accompanied her parents on their exploration journeys.\n\nHelge Ingstad was a popular author, whose books on his visits to remote parts of the world gained him fame in Norway. From Greenland he wrote \"Øst for den store bre\" (\"East of the Great Glacier\"), from Svalbard he wrote \"Landet med de kalde kyster\" (\"The Land With the Chilly Coasts\"). He also visited the Apache Indians of northwestern Mexico, from which he wrote \"Apache-indianerne - jakten på den tapte stamme\" (\"The Apaches - The Hunt for the Lost Tribe\"). After World War II he stayed for a period in the Brooks Range in northern Alaska among the Nunamiut Iñupiat, and afterwards wrote \"Nunamiut - blant Alaskas innlandseskimoer\" (\"Nunamiut - Inland Eskimos of Alaska\").\n\nIn 1960, he discovered the remains of what later proved to be a Viking settlement at L'Anse aux Meadows at the northernmost tip of Newfoundland in Canada. \nIt is the only known site of a Norse or Viking village in Canada, and in North America outside of Greenland. Dating to around the year 1000, L'Anse aux Meadows remains the only widely accepted instance of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact and is notable for its possible connection with the attempted colony of Vinland established by Leif Ericson around the same time period or, more broadly, with Norse exploration of the Americas.\n\nArchaeological excavation at the site was conducted in the 1960s by an international team led by archaeologist Anne Stine Ingstad (Helge Ingstad's wife) and under the direction of Parks Canada of the Government of Canada in the 1970s. Following each period of excavation, the site was reburied to protect and conserve the cultural resources.\n\nThe settlement at L'Anse aux Meadows has been dated to approximately 1,000 years ago, an assessment that tallies with the relative dating of artifact and structure types. The remains of eight buildings were located. They are believed to have been constructed of sod placed over a wooden frame. Based on associated artifacts, the buildings were variously identified as dwellings or workshops. The largest dwelling measured and consisted of several rooms. Workshops were identified as an iron smithy containing a forge and iron slag, a carpentry workshop, which generated wood debris, and a specialized boat repair area containing worn rivets. Besides those related to iron working, carpentry, and boat repair, other artifacts found at the site consisted of common everyday Norse items, including a stone oil lamp, a whetstone, a bronze fastening pin, a bone knitting needle, and part of a spindle. The presence of the spindle and needle suggests that women were present as well as men. Food remains included butternuts, which are significant because they do not grow naturally north of New Brunswick, and their presence probably indicates the Norse inhabitants travelled farther south to obtain them. Archaeologists concluded that the site was inhabited by the Norse for a relatively short period of time.\n\nNorse sagas are written versions of older oral traditions. Two Icelandic sagas, commonly called the \"Saga of the Greenlanders\" and the \"Saga of Eric the Red\", describe the experiences of Norse Greenlanders who discovered and attempted to settle land to the west of Greenland, identified by them as Vinland. The sagas suggest that the Vinland settlement failed because of conflicts within the Norse community, as well as between the Norse and the native people they encountered, whom they called Skrælingar.\n\nRecent archaeological studies suggest that the L'Anse aux Meadows site is not Vinland itself but was within a land called Vinland that spread farther south from L'Anse aux Meadows, extending to the St. Lawrence River and New Brunswick. The village at L'Anse aux Meadows served as an exploration base and winter camp for expeditions heading southward into the Gulf of St. Lawrence. The settlements of Vinland mentioned in the Eric saga and the Greenlanders saga, Leifsbudir (Leif Ericson) and Hóp (Norse Greenlanders), have both been identified as the L'Anse aux Meadows site.\n\nHelge Ingstad has two geographic features in North America named after him. In Canada, a small river, Ingstad Creek, flows into Great Slave Lake. In Alaska, the 1461-meter-high Ingstad Mountain in the Brooks Range was officially approved by the U.S. Board on Geographic Names on 19 April 2006. The name was suggested by the Nunamiut tribe in gratitude for Ingstad's efforts on their behalf.\n\nDuring the last few years of his life, he worked on categorizing and annotating the large quantity of photos and audio recordings (141 songs) he had made while living with the Nunamiut in 1950. The effort resulted in a booklet, \"Songs of the Nunamiut\", with an accompanying CD containing the audio material. This is an extremely valuable contribution to the preservation of the Nunamiut culture, because it turned out that much of what he had gathered in the mid-20th century was now lost locally and was only preserved in his recordings.\n\nHe was an honorary member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters. He also held honorary doctorates at the University of Oslo, Memorial University of Newfoundland in Canada, and at St. Olaf College in Minnesota. He was awarded the Grand Cross of the Royal Norwegian Order of St. Olav (in 1991; previously Knight 1st class in 1965, and Commander in 1970), Knight of the Order of Vasa, and he was presented with the Norwegian Red Cross Badge of Honour for his efforts in Finnmark during World War II. He received a lifetime government grant from the Norwegian government from 1970. He was the subject of a 1981 National Film Board of Canada (NFB) documentary \"The Man Who Discovered America\", and subsequently appeared along with his wife in the 1984 NFB film, \"The Vinland Mystery\". In 1986, he was presented Arts Council Norway's honor award. , the fourth of the five s of the Royal Norwegian Navy was named after Helge Ingstad.\n\nThe inner main-belt asteroid 8993 Ingstad, discovered by Danish astronomer Richard Martin West at ESO's La Silla Observatory in Chile in 1980, was named in his memory. The official naming citation was published by the MPC on 24 June 2002 ().\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8999824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8999824", "title": "Hierophany", "text": "Hierophany\n\nA hierophany is a manifestation of the sacred. The word is a formation of the Greek adjective \"hieros\" (; sacred/holy) and the verb \"phainein\" (φαίνειν; to reveal / to bring to light).\n\nWhen the sacred is revealed in some form or other to an entity, it brings with it great pleasure and suffering, as one who has become familiar with the Godhead would ascribe. This information can be then used by the recipient to assist others on their own path.\n\nThe word \"hierophany\" recurs frequently in the works of the religious historian Mircea Eliade, which he preferred to the more constrictive word \"theophany\" (an appearance of a god).\n\nEliade argues that religion is based on a sharp distinction between the sacred (God, gods, mythical ancestors, etc.) and the profane. According to Eliade, for traditional man, myths describe \"breakthroughs of the sacred (or the 'supernatural') into the World\"—that is, hierophanies. \n\nIn the hierophanies recorded in myth, the sacred appears in the form of ideal models (the actions and commandments of gods, heroes, etc.). By manifesting itself as an ideal model, the sacred gives the world value, direction, and purpose: \"The manifestation of the sacred, ontologically founds the world\". According to this view, all things need to imitate or conform to the sacred models established by hierophanies, in order to have true reality: to traditional man, things \"acquire their reality, their identity, only to the extent of their participation in a transcendent reality\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10406090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10406090", "title": "Hogarth Club", "text": "Hogarth Club\n\nThe Hogarth Club was an exhibition society of artists, based at 84 Charlotte Street, Fitzrovia, London, UK, which existed between 1858 and 1861. It was founded by former members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood after the original PRB had been dissolved. It was envisaged that the club would provide an alternative meeting space and exhibition venue to overcome prejudice against the Pre-Raphaelites at the Royal Academy. Unlike the PRB, the Hogarth Club was established on a professional basis, with two classes of members, artistic and non-artistic, and a distinction between London-based \"resident\" and provincial \"non-resident\" members. \n\nFord Madox Brown suggested that the club be named after William Hogarth since Hogarth was \"a painter whom he deeply reverenced as the originator of moral invention and drama in modern art\". Brown and Dante Gabriel Rossetti had worked on some previous independent exhibitions, but became determined to form a permanent exhibition space after the rejection of Pre-Raphaelite work by the Academy in 1857. In response they created their own exhibition, later founding the Hogarth Club in tandem with other sympathetic artists, most notably William Holman Hunt and John Roddam Spencer Stanhope.\n\nDespite initial success, the Hogarth Club failed to maintain its momentum, and was finally closed in 1861 after failing to adequately build up its membership in the face of hostility from the Royal Academy. Even the former leading Pre-Raphaelite John Everett Millais refused to join, as did otherwise sympathetic Royal Academicians such as Augustus Egg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1496828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1496828", "title": "Ian Buruma", "text": "Ian Buruma\n\nIan Buruma (born December 28, 1951) is a Dutch writer, editor and historian who lives and works in the United States. In 2017, he became editor of \"The New York Review of Books\", but left the position in September 2018.\n\nMuch of his writing has focused on the culture of Asia, particularly that of China and 20th-century Japan. He was the Paul W. Williams Professor of Human Rights and Journalism at Bard College from 2003 to 2017.\n\nBuruma was born and raised in The Hague, Netherlands, to Sytze Leonard \"Leo\" Buruma, a Dutch lawyer and the son of a Mennonite minister, and Gwendolyn Margaret \"Wendy\" Schlesinger, a Briton of German-Jewish descent. He studied Chinese literature and history at Leiden University, and then Japanese film at Nihon University in Tokyo, Japan. Buruma has married twice, both with Japanese women. He and his first wife Sumie Tani had a daughter Isabel and have divorced. He and his current second wife Hotta Eri have a daughter Josephine. Buruma is a nephew of the English film director John Schlesinger, with whom he published a series of interviews in book form.\n\nHe lived in Japan from 1975 to 1981, where he worked as a film reviewer, photographer and documentary filmmaker. During the 1980s, he edited the cultural section of the \"Far Eastern Economic Review\" in Hong Kong. He later traveled throughout Asia working as a freelance writer. Buruma is a board member of Human Rights in China and a fellow of the European Council of Foreign Relations. Buruma has contributed numerous articles to \"The New York Review of Books\" since 1985. He held fellowships at the Wissenschaftskolleg in Berlin (1991) and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C. (1999), and he is a fellow of St Antony's College in Oxford, UK. In 2000, he delivered the Huizinga Lecture (on \"Neoromanticism of writers in exile\") in the Pieterskerk in Leiden, Netherlands.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2017, Buruma was Luce Professor of Democracy, Human Rights and Journalism at Bard College, New York. In 2017, he became editor of \"The New York Review of Books\", succeeding founding editor Robert B. Silvers. \n\nIn September 2018, Buruma left the \"NYRB\" position, in the wake of a controversy over an essay by Jian Ghomeshi in which the Canadian talk show host, among other things, claimed that accusations of sexual violence made against him by more than 20 women were \"inaccurate\". In an interview with \"Slate\" magazine, Buruma defended his decision to publish Ghomeshi's piece and denied that the article was misleading because it failed to mention that Ghomeshi was required to issue an apology to one of the victims as part of the terms of a case against him that was settled. He also denied that the title \"Reflections from a Hashtag\" was dismissive of the #MeToo movement, stated that the movement has resulted in \"undesirable consequences\", and said: \"I’m no judge of the rights and wrongs of every allegation. ... The exact nature of [Ghomeshi's] behavior – how much consent was involved – I have no idea, nor is it really my concern.\" Buruma subsequently left \"The New York Review of Books\" amid \"outrage\" over his defense of the article. The \"Review\" later stated that it departed from its \"usual editorial practices\", as the essay \"was shown to only one male editor during the editing process\", and that Buruma's statement to \"Slate\" about the staff of the \"Review\" \"did not accurately represent their views\". Some commentators expressed fears that Buruma's exit threatened to inhibit the intellectual culture in the United States.\n\nBuruma argues for wholehearted British participation in the European Union because they are the \"strongest champions in Europe of a liberal approach to commerce and politics\".\n\nIn 2008, Buruma was awarded the Erasmus Prize, which is awarded to an individual who has made \"an especially important contribution to culture, society or social science in Europe\".\n\nHe is among the 100 top global thinkers of 2010, as selected by the \"Foreign Policy\" magazine. \"Foreign Policy\" explained his contribution as a public intellectual:\n\nIn April 2012, he was awarded the Abraham Kuyper Prize for Excellence in Reformed Theology and Public Life at the Princeton Theological Seminary.\n\nBuruma has won several prizes for his books, including the \"Los Angeles Times\" Book Prize and the PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award for the Art of the Essay for \"Theater of Cruelty\". He has held a number of editorial and academic positions and has been termed a \"well-regarded European intellectual\". He has also been a regular contributor to Project Syndicate since 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4390744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4390744", "title": "Ignacio Jose Urrutia", "text": "Ignacio Jose Urrutia\n\nIgnacio Jose Urrutia was a Cuban historian. He was born in 1730, died 1795. His most famous work, \"Teatro historico, juridico y politico-militar de la isla Fernandina de Cuba\", was published in 1789.\n\n"}
{"id": "11929989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11929989", "title": "Institute of Contemporary History (Munich)", "text": "Institute of Contemporary History (Munich)\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary History (\"Institut für Zeitgeschichte\") in Munich was conceived in 1947 under the name \"Deutsches Institut für Geschichte der nationalsozialistischen Zeit\" (\"German Institute of the History of the National Socialist Era\"). Founded by the German government and the State of Bavaria at the suggestion of the Allied Forces, it was established in 1949 and renamed in 1952. Its purpose is the analysis of contemporary German history.\n\nThe Institute is funded by the German government, and the German states of Bavaria, Baden-Württemberg, Brandenburg, Hesse, Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia and Saxony. The first director of the Institute was Hans Rothfels, the second director was Martin Broszat. Representatives of the supporting states are also members of the Institute's board.\n\nSince 1953, the Institute has been publishing the journal \"\" (\"Contemporary History Quarterly\"), which is regarded as one of the most important publications of German historical research. The Institute has also published extensive editions of contemporary historical documents, such as \"The Foreign Policy Files of the Bundesrepublik Deutschland\" and \"The Diaries of Joseph Goebbels\".\n\nIn 1994, the Institute founded a branch in Potsdam, which has been based near the German Federal Archives since 1996. The focus of research at the Berlin branch of the Institute is the history of the German Democratic Republic (GDR). The branch \"Abteilung des IfZ im Auswärtigen Amt\" (\"IfZ Department in the Foreign Office\"), founded in 1990 (first situated in Bonn; in Berlin, since 2000), publishes documents from the German Foreign Office.\n\nIn 1999, the Institute conceived the \"Dokumentationszentrum Obersalzberg\" museum on the Obersalzberg near Berchtesgaden at the request of the Bavarian government. This exhibition documents the construction of the Obersalzberg into a showy residence for Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist leadership circles. Visitors can tour the bunker complex. (Access to the bunkers was closed for construction in September 2017 and remained closed in July 2018 \"until further notice\".)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2414098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414098", "title": "Jacob van Maerlant", "text": "Jacob van Maerlant\n\nJacob van Maerlant (c. 1230–40 – c. 1288–1300) was the greatest Flemish poet of the 13th century and one of the most important Middle Dutch authors during the Middle Ages.\n\nVan Maerlant was born near Bruges. He became sacristan of Maerlant, in the island of Oostvoorne, where he lived for some time, employed as a sexton, whence his surname \"de Coster\". Later he resided at Damme, near Bruges, where, according to tradition, he held the position of town clerk.\n\nHis early works are Middle Dutch translations of French romances. Jacob's most serious work in the field of romance was his \"Historie van Troyen\" (c. 1264), a poem of some forty thousand lines, translated and amplified from the \"Roman de Troie\" of Benoît de Sainte-Maure.\n\nFrom this time Jacob rejected romance as idle, and devoted himself to writing scientific and historical works for the education and, enlightenment of the Flemish and Dutch nobility. His \"Heimelicheit der Heimelicheden\" (c. 1266) is a translation of the \"Secreta secretorum\", a manual for the education of princes, ascribed throughout the Middle Ages to Aristotle. \"Van der Naturen Bloeme\" is a free translation of \"De natura rerum\", a natural history in twenty books by a native of Brabant, Thomas of Cantimpré; and his \"Rijmbijbel\" is taken, with many omissions and additions, from the \"Historia scholastica\" of Petrus Comestor. He supplemented this metrical paraphrase of scripture history by \"Die Wrake van Jherusalem\" (1271) from Josephus. He also translated a \"Life of St. Francis\" (\"Leven van St. Franciscus\") from the Latin of Bonaventure. Jacob's most extensive work is the \"Spiegel Historiael\", a rhymed chronicle of the world, translated, with omissions and important additions, from the \"Speculum historiale\" of Vincent de Beauvais. It is dedicated to Count Floris V and was begun in 1283, but was left unfinished at the poet's death. Continuations were given by Philip Utenbroeke and Lodewijc van Velthem, a Brabant priest. He wrote three Arthurian works: \"Torec\", which survives in the massive \"Lancelot-Compilatie\";, and two romances based on the works of Robert de Boron, \"Historie van den Grale\" and \"Boec van Merline\", which tell the stories of Joseph of Arimathea and Merlin.\n\nVan Maerlant is also the author of a number of strophic poems, which date from different periods of his life. Of these the best known is the \"Wapene Martijn\" (\"Alas! Martin\") so called from the opening words. It is a dialogue on the course of events held between the poet himself and a character named Martin. Altogether there are three parts, of which the above-mentioned is the first. The other two parts are known as \"Dander Martijn\" (\"Second Martin\") and \"Derden Martijn\" (\"Third Martin\").\n\nOther poems of this kind are \"Van ons Heren wonden\", a translation of the hymn \"Salve mea! o patrona\"; \"Die Clausule van der Bible\", an allegorical poem in praise of the Virgin Mary; the \"Disputacie van onser Vrouwen ende van den helighen Cruce\", which bewails the sad situation of the Holy Land. Jacob's last poem \"Van den Lande van Oversee\" was written after the fall of Acre (1291) and is a stirring summons to a crusade against the infidels, with bitter complaints about abuses in the Church. The \"Geesten\" were edited by Franck (Groningen, 1882). Complete editions of the strophic poems were given by E. Verwijs (Groningen, 1880) and by J. Franck and J. Verdam (Groningen, 1898).\n\nBased on doctoral research (Van Anrooij 1997), it is now thought likely that van Maerlant was also the author of the hitherto anonymous \"Van neghen den besten\" (\"On the Nine Worthies\"). This would be his last work. It is one of the few works with European distribution whose source text was written in Middle Dutch. The work had a profound and lasting impact on the honor code of the Western European knightly elite.\n\nJacob died in the closing years of the 13th century. The greater part of his work consists of translations, but he also produced poems which prove him to have had real original poetic faculty. Among these are \"Die Clausule van der Bible\", \"Der Kerken Clage\", imitated from a \"Complainte\" of Rutebeuf, and the three dialogues entitled \"Martijn\", in which the fundamental questions of theology and ethics were discussed.\n\nAlthough Jacob was an orthodox Roman Catholic, he is said to have been called to account by the priests for translating the Bible into the vulgar tongue. In spite of his orthodoxy, Jacob was a keen satirist of the corruptions of the clergy. He was one of the most learned men of his age, and for two centuries was the most celebrated of Flemish poets. \n\nJacob van Maerlant is the modern name of a medieval Dutch author, who called himself Jacob van Merlant. Merlant was the name of a harbour at the island of Oost-Voorne, which was part of the County of Holland (and Zeeland), where the viscount of Zeeland held residence. In the 14th century Merlant disappeared from the map and became a part of the city of Brielle, also known as Den Briel. In the year 1261 or shortly after Jacob got a job as a 'custos' at the church of Saint Martin at Merlant, from which he took his second name.\n\nThe date and year of his birth are unknown. Estimates usually range between 1230 and 1240, due to the 'fact' that his oldest work, \"Alexanders geesten\" (The deeds of Alexander [the Great]), was probably written (shortly) after 1260. Also unknown is where Jacob was born and from what parents or family. His language has been analyzed by the Dutch linguists Amand Berteloot and Evert van den Berg, who came to the conclusion that he grew up and learned to speak in the County of Flanders, somewhere south of the city of Bruges, Belgium.\n\nAlso unknown is when and where Jacob died. Tradition holds that Jacob must have been alive in 1291, because he is considered to be the author of a poem \"Vanden lande van Overzee\" (On the Land across the Sea [the Holy Land]), which was written as a 'complaint' of the fall of the last Christian city in the Holy Land, Saint-Jean d'Acres.\nThis poem however, which survived in only one manuscript (UB Groningen, Ms. 405), has no name attached to it in the manuscript itself. None of the texts in this manuscript bears the name of its author. But since the main body of this manuscript is Jacob van Maerlant's translation/adaptation of Petrus Comestor's \"Historia scholastica\", traditionally known as \"Rijmbijbel\" (rhymed Bible) and Jacob's adaptation/translation of Flavius Josephus's \"De bello judaeico\". In his recent edition of the oldest surviving manuscript (BR/KB Brussel, Ms. 15001) Maurits Gysseling treats Jacob's Josephus-translation as belonging to the Comestor-translation, yet it is a different text which Jacob named \"Die wrake van Jherusalem\" (The vengeance of Jeruzalem), thereby showing his interpretation of what happened – and why it happened – during the Jewish revolt against the Roman oppressors, which ended in the capture of Jeruzalem and the destruction of the Temple by emperor Vespasianus' son Titus in AD 70. Nineteenth century Dutch scholars who were used to consider rhymed texts as 'poetry' were not too happy with Jacob's rhyming couplets, which they thought were lacking poetical beauty, so they needed his authorship of these 'real' poems at the end of manuscript to prove that he was a real poet or could be a real poet, if only he wanted to.\n\nThat Jacob was the author of this poem \"Vanden lande van Overzee\" was based on a verse in the 19th and last stanza: \"Ghi heren, dit is Jacobs vont. (v. 235): Gentlemen, this is Jacob's creation\". This is no evidence in the modern sense of the word, but in the middle of the 19th century it was more than enough proof that – considering the subject and the way the poet expresses humself – could not have been anybody else than Jacob van Maerlant. Fact is that Jacob only called himself Jacob when he was young and before he went to Merlant at Oost-voorne. Than he called hemself 'Jacob (die coster) van Merlant'. At older age when he was known and famous as the author of \"Scolastica in dietschen\" alias the \"Rijmbijbel\", finished on March 25, 1271, he simply called himself 'Merlant'. It was not uncommon in medieval literature to use alloniems to give a text more 'weight'. It is very well possible that some poet used the name Jacob – if it wasn't his name, and an often given name to celebrate the apostle Jacobus who lied buried in Santiago de Compostella – to make the impression that it was written by the famous Jacob van Maerlant. The same technique was used to appoint Jacob of Maerlant as the author (and inventor!) of a Dutch poem about the Nine Worthies. In this case the 'pia fraus' was written in Latin.\n\nRecent examination of the manuscript Groningen 405 by bookhistorian Jos Biemans has revealed that this codex is a mixture of older and younger quires. Jacob's \"Scolastica/Wrake\" belongs to the younger part, \"Vanden lande van Overzee\" to the older part. It took probably some 10 years (1330–1340)? to write and to assemble this book, which was presumably done in the Brabantine city Den Bosch for the nearby monastery 'Marienweerd'. Most likely the main guideline to collect the quires into one codex was not the authorship of Jacob van Maerlant but the virgin Mary, which is in perfect harmony with the name of the monastery 'Marienweert'. To make a long story short: there is no real evidence or reason to think that this manuscript Groningen 405 has to be a 'Maerlant'-collection. There is too much wishful thinking involved.\n\nTradition says he died at Damme; ca. 1300, yet ca. 1288 is more realistic.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6459657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6459657", "title": "Josef Gebauer", "text": "Josef Gebauer\n\nJosef Gebauer (August 7, 1942 in Prague – May 19, 2004 in Opava) was a Czech historian and archivist.\n\nSince 1972 until his death he worked in Provincial Archive of Czech Silesia (\"Zemský archív\") in Opava . His specialisation was to deal with historical documents related to agriculture and forestry.\n\nGebauer frequently published articles about Silesian history in local newspapers (e.g. in \"Naše Opavsko\"). In September 2004 he was awarded (in memoriam) by the municipality of Opava for popularisation of history of the city.\n"}
{"id": "7275972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7275972", "title": "Keep the Widow Waking", "text": "Keep the Widow Waking\n\nKeep the Widow Waking is a lost Jacobean play, significant chiefly for the light it throws on the complexities of collaborative authorship in English Renaissance drama.\n\n\"A Late Murder of the Son Upon the Mother, or Keep the Widow Waking\" was a tragedy licensed by the Master of the Revels (the Court official in charge of regulating drama) in September 1624, as the work of John Ford and John Webster (\"Written by Forde, and Webster,\" the record states). Such an entry in the Revels accounts is generally accepted by scholars as strong evidence of authorship. In the case of this play, however, documents relating to a lawsuit are preserved in the Public Records Office in London—documents that include testimony by Thomas Dekker that \"Keep the Widow Waking\" was actually written by Dekker, Ford, Webster, and William Rowley.\n\nThis cluster of dramatists was known to have been working together in the early 1620s. Webster and Rowley would write \"A Cure for a Cuckold\" a year later (1625); and \"The Spanish Gypsy\" (1623) was perhaps written by Dekker, Ford, and Rowley. \"The Witch of Edmonton\" dates from 1621; the first published text of that play (1658) states that it was written by Dekker, Ford, Rowley, \"&c.\" Scholars have generally ignored the \"et cetera\" and treated the play as the work of Ford, Dekker, and Rowley; yet the example of \"Keep the Widow Waking\" suggests that the \"&c.\" should perhaps not be dismissed lightly.\n\nIt has been suggested that \"Wit Without Money\", written by John Fletcher, is an antecedent of this play and may have influenced it.\n\n"}
{"id": "11095850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11095850", "title": "Kfar Darom bus attack", "text": "Kfar Darom bus attack\n\nThe Kfar Darom bus attack was a 1995 suicide attack on an Israeli bus carrying civilians and soldiers to Kfar Darom, an Israeli settlement in the Gaza Strip. The attack killed seven Israeli soldiers and one American civilian. The Shaqaqi faction of the Islamic Jihad, claimed responsibility for the bombing. A United States Federal district judge ruled that the Iranian Government had provided financial aid to the group that carried out the attack and were therefore responsible for the murder of the U.S. citizen. The court ordered the Government of Iran to pay the victim's family $247.5 million in damages.\n\nOn the morning of 9 April 1995, Khaled Mohammed Khatib, a construction worker from the Nuseirat refugee camp, waited on the main highway running from Ashkelon to the settlements in the Gaza Strip. At 11:45 AM, he rammed Egged bus 36 carrying more than 60 Israeli soldiers and civilian passengers to the Jewish settlement of Kfar Darom. At the moment he rammed the bus, he flipped a trigger switch in the steering column, detonating a bomb in his car. Seven Israeli soldiers and one American civilian were killed and 52 passengers were wounded.\n\nThe following people died in the attack:\nAlisa Flatow (1975–1995), the American Jewish student from West Orange, New Jersey killed in the attack, attended Brandeis University. When Flatow succumbed to her wounds, her family donated her organs to save the lives of others.\n\nFlatow's family sued the government of Iran, and in 1998 a Federal district judge ordered the Iranian government to pay $247.5 million in damages to Flatow's family. The Alisa M. Flatow Yeshiva High School was named in her honor. The Alisa Flatow Memorial Scholarship provides funds for students who wish to pursue traditional Jewish studies.\n\nTwo hours later, Imad Abu Amouna used a suicide car-bomb against an Israeli police-escorted convoy of cars driving towards the Netzarim settlement. Imad Abu Amouna was a Palestinian Islamic Jihad militant who had grown tired of waiting for his \"martyrdom operation\" and instead volunteered with Hamas. Nobody was killed, but thirty soldiers were wounded. The bomb used by Amouna was designed by Yahya Ayyash.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4314285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4314285", "title": "Kurds in Turkey", "text": "Kurds in Turkey\n\nKurds in Turkey refers to people born in or residing in Turkey who are of Kurdish origin.\nThe Kurds are the largest ethnic minority in Turkey. According to various estimates, they compose between 15% and 20% of the population of Turkey. There are Kurds living in various provinces of Turkey, but they are primarily concentrated in the east and southeast of the country, within the region viewed by Kurds as Northern Kurdistan.\n\nMassacres, such as the Dersim ethnocide and the Zilan massacre, have periodically occurred against the Kurds since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey in 1923. The Turkish government categorized Kurds as \"Mountain Turks\" until 1991, and the words \"Kurds\", \"Kurdistan\", or \"Kurdish\" were officially banned by the Turkish government. Following the military coup of 1980, the Kurdish language was officially prohibited in public and private life. Many people who spoke, published, or sang in Kurdish were arrested and imprisoned. In Turkey, it is illegal to use Kurdish as a language of instruction in both public and private schools. The Kurdish language is only allowed as a subject in some schools.\n\nSince the 1980s, Kurdish movements have included both peaceful political activities for basic civil rights for Kurds in Turkey as well as armed rebellion and guerrilla warfare, including military attacks aimed mainly at Turkish military bases, demanding first a separate Kurdish state and later self-determination for the Kurds. According to a state-sponsored Turkish opinion poll, 59% of self-identified Kurds in Turkey think that Kurds in Turkey do not seek a separate state (while 71.3% of self-identified Turks think they do).\n\nDuring the Kurdish–Turkish conflict, food embargoes were placed on Kurdish villages and towns. There were many instances of Kurds being forcibly expelled from their villages by Turkish security forces. Many villages were reportedly set on fire or destroyed. Throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, political parties that represented Kurdish interests were banned. In 2013, a ceasefire effectively ended the violence until June 2015, when hostilities renewed between the PKK and the Turkish government over Turkey's involvement in the Syrian Civil War. Violence was widely reported against ordinary Kurdish citizens and the headquarters and branches of the pro-Kurdish rights Peoples' Democratic Party were attacked by mobs.\n\nThe Marwanid dynasty, which was of Kurdish origin, ruled a territory from Diyarbakir that included parts of Syria and Iraq from 984 to 1083. The Ayyubid dynasty, also of Kurdish origin (but identifying first and foremost as Muslims), ruled parts of Anatolia in the 12th and 13th centuries.\n\nAccording to the Kurdish historian Rohat Alakom, the first Kurdish tribe to arrive in Central Anatolia was the Modanlı tribe (itself a sub-tribe of the Merdisi) that settled in Haymana in 1184. According to Ahmet Nezihî Turan the first Kurdish settlement in Central Anatolia was named \"Kürtler\" (\"Kurds\"), founded in Yaban Âbâd (present-day Kızılcahamam-Çamlıdere near Ankara) in 1463. According to Mark Sykes, the earliest population transfer (or exile) of Kurds to Central Anatolia was carried out during the reign of Selim I (1512–20).\n\nThe Mahmudi or \"Pinyanişi\" was an Ottoman-Kurdish tribe in the Lake Van region, who according to Evliya Çelebi had 60,000 warriors. Their chief, Sarı Süleyman Bey, strengthened the Hoşap Castle in the Lake Van region, in 1643.\n\nAfter ca. 1800, the Cihanbeyli, Resvan and Sihbizin tribes migrated into central Anatolia from the east and southeast. The total Kurdish population in Turkey was estimated at around 1.5 million in the 1880s, many of whom were nomadic or pastoral.\n\nAfter the establishment of the Republic of Turkey, which ended the caliphates and sultanate in Turkey, there have been several Kurdish rebellions since the 1920s: Koçkiri Rebellion, Sheikh Said Rebellion, Dersim Rebellion, Ararat rebellion.\n\nIn 1937–38, approximately 10,000-15,000 Alevis and Kurds were killed and thousands went into exile. A key component of the Turkification process was the policy of massive population resettlement. Referring to the main policy document in this context, the 1934 law on resettlement, a policy targeting the region of Dersim as one of its first test cases, with disastrous consequences for the local population. The Dersim massacre is often confused with the Dersim Rebellion that took place during these events.\n\nAfter the 1960 coup, the State Planning Organization (, DPT) was established under the Prime Ministry to solve the problem of Kurdish separatism and underdevelopment. In 1961, the DPT prepared a report titled \"The principles of the state's development plan for the east and southeast\" (), shortened to \"Eastern Report\". It proposed to defuse separatism by encouraging ethnic mixing through migration (to and from the Southeast). This was not unlike the policies pursued by the Committee of Union and Progress under the Ottoman Empire. The Minister of Labor of the time, Bülent Ecevit of partial Kurdish ancestry, was critical of the report.\n\nDuring the 1970s, the separatist movement coalesced into the Kurdish–Turkish conflict. From 1984 to 1999, the Turkish military was embroiled in a conflict with the PKK. The village guard system was set up and armed by the Turkish state around 1984 to combat the PKK. The militia comprises local Kurds and it has around 58,000 members. Some of the village guards are fiercely loyal to the Turkish state, leading to infighting among Kurdish militants.\n\nDue to the clashes between Turkish Army and the PKK the countryside in the southeast was depopulated, with Kurdish civilians moving to local defensible centers such as Diyarbakır, Van, and Şırnak, as well as to the cities of western Turkey and even to western Europe. The causes of the depopulation included the Turkish state's military operations against Kurdish population, some PKK atrocities against Kurdish clans they could not control and the poverty of the southeast. An estimated 3,000 Kurdish villages in Turkey were virtually wiped from the map by the Turkish government, representing the displacement of more than 378,000 people.\n\n\"Evacuations were unlawful and violent. Security forces would surround a village using helicopters, armored vehicles, troops, and village guards, and burn stored produce, agricultural equipment, crops, orchards, forests, and livestock. They set fire to houses, often giving the inhabitants no opportunity to retrieve their possessions. During the course of such operations, security forces frequently abused and humiliated villagers, stole their property and cash, and ill-treated or tortured them before herding them onto the roads and away from their former homes. The operations were marked by scores of “disappearances” and extrajudicial executions. By the mid-1990s, more than 3,000 villages had been virtually wiped from the map, and, according to official figures, 378,335 Kurdish villagers had been displaced and left homeless.\"\n\nIn 2010, after clashes between the PKK and the government forces in eastern and southeastern Turkey, several locations in Iraqi Kurdistan were attacked by the Turkish Air Force early in June 2010. The air attack was reported 4 days later in a news article released immediately after the attack. The tense condition has continued on the border since 2007, with both sides responding to each other's every offensive move.\n\nFollowing Turkey's electoral board decision to bar prominent Kurdish candidates who had allegedly outstanding warrants or were part of ongoing investigations for PKK-links from standing in upcoming elections, violent Kurdish protests erupted on April 19, 2011, resulting in at least one casualty.\n\nOn the eve of the 2012 year (28 December), the prime minister of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said that the government was conducting negotiations with jailed rebel leader Öcalan. On 21 March 2013, after months of negotiations with the Turkish Government, Abdullah Ocalan's letter to people was read both in Turkish and Kurdish during Nowruz celebrations in Diyarbakır. The letter called a cease-fire that included disarmament and withdrawal from Turkish soil and calling \"an end to armed struggle\". The PKK announced that they would obey, stating that the year of 2013 is the year of solution either through war or through peace. On 25 April 2013, the PKK announced that it would be withdrawing all its forces within Turkey to Northern Iraq.\n\nOn 6 and 7 October 2014, riots erupted in various cities in Turkey for protesting the Siege of Kobani. Protesters were met with tear gas and water cannons; 37 people were killed in protests. Following the July 2015 crisis (after ISIL's 2015 Suruç bombing attack on Kurdish activists), Turkey bombed alleged PKK bases in Iraq, following the PKK's unilateral decision to end the cease-fire (after many months of increasing tensions) and its suspected killing of two policeman in the town of Ceylanpınar (which the group denied carrying out). Violence soon spread throughout the country. Many Kurdish businesses were destroyed by mobs. The headquarters and branches of the pro-Kurdish rights Peoples' Democratic Party were also attacked. There are reports of civilians being killed in several Kurdish populated towns and villages. The Council of Europe raised their concerns over the attacks on civilians and the blockade of Cizre. By 2017, measures taken to curtail efforts to promote Kurdish culture within Turkey had included changing street names that honored Kurdish figures, removing statues of Kurdish heroes, and closing down television channels broadcasting in the Kurdish language.\n\nThe Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), which holds 52 out of 550 seats in the Parliament, supports minority politics, a multi-ethnic society and friendly Turkish-Kurdish relations, while controversially holding relations with PKK. Critics have accused the party of mainly representing the interests of the Kurdish minority in south-eastern Turkey, where the party polls the highest.\n\nKurds in Turkey are represented by the political parties of Rights and Freedoms Party, Communist Party of Kurdistan, Islamic Party of Kurdistan, Peoples' Democratic Party, Kurdistan Democratic Party/North (illegal), Revolutionary Party of Kurdistan (illegal). Defunct parties include Democracy Party (DEP; 1993–94), Democratic People's Party (1997–2005), Democratic Society Party (DTP; 2005–09), Freedom and Democracy Party (ÖZDEP; 1992–93), Kurdistan Islamic Movement (1993–2004), Peace and Democracy Party (2008–14), People's Democracy Party (HADEP; 1994–2003), People's Labor Party (HEP; 1990–93), Workers Vanguard Party of Kurdistan (1975–92). Banned parties include HEP, ÖZDEP (1993), DEP (1994), HADEP (2003), and DTP (2009).\n\n\nAccording to human rights organisations since the beginning of the Kurdish–Turkish conflict 4,000 Kurdish villages have been destroyed and some 40,000 people have been killed. In December 2015, Turkish military operation against Kurdish rebels in southeastern Turkey has killed hundreds of civilians, displaced hundreds of thousands and caused massive destruction in residential areas.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1991 the performance or recording of songs in the Kurdish language was banned in Turkey, affecting singers such as Şivan Perwer, Mahsun Kırmızıgül and İbrahim Tatlıses. However a black market has long existed in Turkey, and pirate radio stations and underground recordings have always been available. Although there was no ban on performing Kurdish language music, it was effectively prevented from being broadcast on radio or television through censorship.\n\nŞivan Perwer is a composer, vocalist and tembûr player. He concentrates mainly on political and nationalistic music—of which he is considered the founder in Kurdish music—as well as classical and folk music.\n\nAnother important Kurdish musician from Turkey is Nizamettin Arıç (Feqiyê Teyra). He began with singing in Turkish, and made his directorial debut and also stars in \"Klamek ji bo Beko\" (\"A Song for Beko\"), one of the first films in Kurdish. Arıç rejected musical stardom at the cost of debasing his language and culture. As a result of singing in Kurdish, he was imprisoned, and then obliged to flee to Syria and eventually to Germany.\n\nSome sources consider Ali Hariri (1425–1495) as the first well-known poet who wrote in Kurdish. He was from the Hakkari region.\n\nIn 2011, Kanal D, Turkey's largest television station, began filming \"Ayrılık Olmasaydı: ben-u sen\" in majority-Kurdish Diyarbakir. The show, written by a Kurdish screenwriter, professed to be the first in the popular genre to portray the Kurds in a positive light. The show was set to debut in early 2012, but suffered numerous delays, some say because of the controversial subject.\n\nMost Kurds live in Turkey, where their numbers are estimated at 14,000,000 people by the CIA world factbook (18% of population). A report commissioned by the National Security Council (Turkey) in 2000 puts the number at 12,600,000 people, or 15.7% of the population. One Western source estimates that up to 25% of the Turkish population is Kurdish (approximately 18-19 million people). Kurdish nationalists put the figure at 20,000,000 to 25,000,000. All of the above figures are for the number of people who identify as Kurds, not the number who speak a Kurdish language, but include both Kurds and Zazas. Estimates based on native languages place the Kurdish population at 6% to 23%; Ibrahim Sirkeci claims the closest figure should be above 17.8%, taking into account political context and the potential biases in responses recorded in surveys and censuses. The population growth rate of Kurds in the 1970s was given as 3.27%. According to two studies (2006 and 2008) study by KONDA, people who self-identify as Kurdish or Zaza and/or speaks Kurmanji or Zazaki as a mother tongue correspond to 13.4% of the population. Based on higher birth rates among Kurdish people, and using 2000 Census results, KONDA suggested that this figure rises to 15.7% when children are included, at the end of 2007.\n\nSince the immigration to the big cities in the west of Turkey, interethnic marriage has become more common. A recent study estimates that there are 2,708,000 marriages between Turks and Kurds/Zaza.\n\nA research by Mete Feridun of University of Greenwich seeks to explain the possible role of the regional underdevelopment of South Eastern Turkey in the ensuing terrorism in the country. The article also aims at making a contribution towards a better understanding of some economic conditions that are related to terrorism.\n\nTurkish government statistics show that Kurdish women in Turkey give birth to about four children, more than double the rate for the rest of the Turkish population. The Kurdish population is growing, while the rest of the country has birth rates below replacement level. In some Kurdish dominated provinces women give birth to 7.1 children on average. Women in Kurdish dominated provinces of eastern Turkey also have an illiteracy rate about three times higher than men, which correlates with higher birth rates. In Şırnak 66 percent of 15-year old girls could not read or write.\n\n\nThe Kurds of Central Anatolia (Kurdish: \"Kurdên Anatolyayê/Anatolê\", Turkish: \"Orta Anadolu Kürtleri\" or \"İç Anadolu Kürtleri\" are the Kurdish people who have immigrated and been in Central Anatolia (present day Aksaray, Ankara, Çankırı, Çorum, Eskişehir, Karaman, Kayseri, Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Konya, Nevşehir, Niğde, Sivas, Yozgat provinces) since about 16th century. They number between 50,000 to 100,000 people. The core of the Kurds of Central Anatolia is formed by \"Tuz Gölü Kürtleri\" (Kurds of Lake Tuz) who live in Ankara, Konya and Aksaray provinces. Mustafa Kemal (Atatürk) mentioned them as \"Konya çöllerindeki Kürtler\" (Kurds in the Konya deserts) in the interview with Ahmet Emin (Yalman) dated January 16/17, 1923.\n\nAccording to Hermann Wenzel, the original breeders of the Angora goat were the Kurds of Inner Anatolia.\n\nThe largest tribes of the Kurds of Central Anatolia are the Bazaini or Shaikh Bazaini, Judikan, Saifkan, Chelebi, Janbeki, Jehanbegli, Khallikan, Mutikan, Hajibani, Barakati, Badeli, Ukhchizhemi, Rashvan, Sherdi, Urukchi, Milan, Zirikan, Atmanikan, and Tirikan. Formerly, some of the Janbegli, Rashvan and Milan tribes were of Alevi origin and followed Alevism.\n\nTwo or the four primary dialects of Kurdish are used by the Central Anatolian Kurds. These are Kurmanji and Dimili/Zaza. Generally, their mother languages are Kurdish (Kurmanji) and Kurmanji-speaking people have difficulty to understand the language spoken in Haymana where Şeyhbızın (Şêxbizinî) tribe members live. It is said that the new generation of Kurdish people in some settlements no longer speak Kurdish.\n\nSince the 1970s, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned Turkey for the thousands of human rights abuses. The judgments are related to executions of Kurdish civilians, torturing, forced displacements, destroyed villages, arbitrary arrests, murdered and disappeared Kurdish journalists. The latest judgments are from 2014.\n\nThe European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance (ECRI) reports that (as of April 2010): \"The public use by officials of the Kurdish language lays them open to prosecution, and public defence by individuals of Kurdish or minority interests also frequently leads to prosecutions under the Criminal Code.\" From the 1994 briefing at the International Human Rights Law Group: \"the problem in Turkey is the Constitution is against the Kurds and the apartheid constitution is very similar to it.\"\n\nIn 1998 Leyla Zana received a jail sentence. This prompted one member of the U.S. House of Representative, Elizabeth Furse, to accuse Turkey of being a racist state and continuing to deny the Kurds a voice in the state\". Abbas Manafy from New Mexico Highlands University claims \"The Kurdish deprivation of their own culture, language, and tradition is incompatible with democratic norms. It reflects an apartheid system that victimizes minorities like Armenians, Kurds, and Alevis.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4454773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454773", "title": "List of archaeological periods", "text": "List of archaeological periods\n\nThe names for archaeological periods in the list of archaeological periods vary enormously from region to region. This is a list of the main divisions by continent and region. Dating also varies considerably and those given are broad approximations across wide areas.\n\nThe three-age system has been used in many areas, referring to the prehistorical and historical periods identified by tool manufacture and use, of Stone Age, Bronze Age and Iron Age. Since these ages are distinguished by the development of technology, it is natural that the dates to which these refer vary in different parts of the world. In many regions, the term Stone Age is no longer used, as it has been replaced by more specific geological periods. For some regions, there is need for an intermediate Chalcolithic period between the Stone Age and Bronze Age. For cultures where indigenous metal tools were in less widespread use, other classifications, such as the lithic stage, archaic stage and formative stage refer to the development of other types of technology and social organisation.\n\nHistorical periods denotes periods of human development with the advantage of the development of writing. Written records tend to provide more socio-political insight into the dominant nations, and hence allow categorization according to the ruling empires and cultures, such as Hellenistic, Roman, Viking. Inevitably these definitions of periods only relate to the region of that empire or culture.\n\nThe Industrial Age or Modern era is generally taken to refer to post-1800. From this time, the industrial revolution which began in Western Europe resulted in global trade and greatly increased cultural exchange.\n\n"}
{"id": "2098301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2098301", "title": "Makassan contact with Australia", "text": "Makassan contact with Australia\n\nTrepangers from the Makassar region of Sulawesi (modern day Indonesia) began visiting the coast of northern Australia sometime around the middle of the 1700s, first in the Kimberley region, and some decades later in Arnhem Land, to collect and process \"trepang\" (also known as sea cucumber), a marine invertebrate sea cucumber prized for its culinary value generally and for its medicinal properties in Chinese markets. The term Makassan (or Macassan) is generally used to apply to all the trepangers who came to Australia, although some were from other islands in the Indonesian Archipelago, including Timor, Rote and Aru.\n\nThe creature and the food product are commonly known as sea cucumber, bêche-de-mer in French, gamat in Malaysian, while Makassarese has 12 terms covering 16 different species.. One of the Makassar terms, for trepang, \"taripaŋ\" entered the Aboriginal languages of the Cobourg Peninsula, as \"tharriba\" in Marrku, as \"jarripang\" in Mawng or otherwise as \"darriba.\"\n\n\"Trepang\" live on the sea floor and are exposed at low tide. Fishing was traditionally done by hand, spearing, diving or dredging. The catch was placed in boiling water before being dried and smoked, to preserve the \"trepang\" for the journey back to Makassar and other South East Asian markets. \"Trepang\" is still valued by Chinese communities for its jelly-like texture, its flavour-enhancing properties, and as a stimulant and aphrodisiac. Matthew Flinders made a contemporary record of how trepang was processed when he met Pobasso, a chief of a Makassan fleet in February 1803.\n\nFishing fleets began to visit the northern coasts of Australia from Makassar in southern Sulawesi, Indonesia from about 1720, but possibly earlier. While Campbell Macknight's classic study of the Makassan trepang industry accepts the start of the industry as about 1720, with the earliest recorded trepang voyage made in 1751, Regina Ganter of Griffith University notes a Sulawesi historian who suggests a commencement date for the industry of about 1640. Ganter also notes that for some anthropologists, the extensive impact of the trepang industry on the Yolngu people suggests a longer period of contact. Arnhem land rock art, recorded by archaeologists in 2008, appears to provide further evidence of Makassan contact in the mid-1600s. Contact has even been proposed from as early as the 1500s, on the basis of radiocarbon dating for apparent prau designs in Aboriginal rock art.\n\nAt the height of the trepang industry, Makassans ranged thousands of kilometres along Australia's northern coasts, arriving with the north-west monsoon each December. Makassan \"perahu\" or \"praus\" could carry a crew of thirty members, and Macknight estimated the total number of trepangers arriving each year as about one thousand. The Makassan crews established themselves at various semi-permanent locations on the coast, to boil and dry the trepang before the return voyage home, four months later, to sell their cargo to Chinese merchants. \"Marege\"' was the Makassan name for Arnhem land, (meaning literally \"Wild Country\") from the Cobourg Peninsula to Groote Eylandt in the Gulf of Carpentaria. \"Kayu Jawa\" was the name for the fishing grounds in the Kimberley region of Western Australia, from Napier Broome Bay to Cape Leveque. Other important fishing areas included West Papua, Sumbawa, Timor and Selayar. Matthew Flinders in his circumnavigation of Australia in 1803, met a Makassan trepang fleet near present day Nhulunbuy. He communicated at length with a Makassan captain, Pobasso, through his cook, who was also a Malay, and learned of the extent of the trade from this encounter. \n\nGanter adds: \"1,000 Macassans...must have seen a veritable invasion against the fewer than 7,000 British nestled into Sydney Cove and Newcastle.\" Nicholas Baudin also encountered 26 large \"perahu\" off the northern coast of Western Australia in the same year. Ganter states that the British settlements of Fort Dundas and Fort Wellington were established as a result of Phillip Parker King's contact with Makassan trepangers in 1821.\n\nUsing Daeng Rangka, the last Makassan trepanger to visit Australia, lived well into the 20th century and the history of his voyages are therefore well documented. He first made the voyage to northern Australia as a young man. He suffered dismasting and several shipwrecks, generally positive but occasionally conflicting relationships with Indigenous Australians, and was the first trepanger to pay the South Australian government (which at the time administered the Northern Territory) for a trepanging licence in 1883, an impost that made the trade less viable. The trade continued to dwindle toward the end of the 19th century, due to the imposition of customs duties and licence fees and probably compounded by overfishing. Using Daeng Rangka commanded the last Makassar \"perahu,\" which left Arnhem Land in 1907.\n\nArcheological remains of Makassar processing plants from the 18th and 19th centuries are still at Port Essington, Anuru Bay and Groote Eylandt, along with stands of the Makassan introduced tamarind trees. Macknight and others note these areas have produced pieces of metal, broken pottery and glass, coins, fishhooks and broken clay pipes. Macknight notes that much of the ceramic material found suggests a nineteenth-century date.\n\nIn 1916, two bronze cannons were found on a small island in Napier Broome Bay, on the northern coast of Western Australia. Scientists at the Western Australian Museum in Fremantle have made a detailed analysis and have determined that these weapons are swivel guns and almost certainly of late-18th-century Makassan, rather than European, origin. Flinders' account confirms that the Makassans he met were personally armed and their perahus carried small cannons.\n\nIn January 2012, a swivel gun found two years before at Dundee Beach near Darwin was widely reported by web news sources and the Australian press to be of Portuguese origin. However initial analysis by the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory indicates it is probably also of South East Asian origin. The Museum holds 7 guns of South East Asian manufacture in its collections. Another swivel gun of South East Asian manufacture, found in Darwin in 1908, is held by the Museum of South Australia, and is also possibly of Makassan origin.\n\nThere is significant evidence of contact with Makassan fishers in rock art and bark painting of northern Australia, with the Makassan \"perahu\" a prominent feature.\n\nThe heritage-listed Wurrwurrwuy stone arrangements at Yirrkala depict aspects of Makassan trepanging including details of the vessel's internal structures. \n\nThe Makassar contact with Aborigines had a significant effect on their culture. Ganter writes \"the cultural imprint on the Yolngu people of this contact is everywhere: in their language, in their art, in their stories, in their cuisine.\" According to anthropologist John Bradley from Monash University, the contact between the two groups was a success: \"They traded together. It was fair - there was no racial judgement, no race policy.\" Even into the early 21st century, the shared history between the two peoples is still celebrated by Aboriginal communities in northern Australia as a period of mutual trust and respect.\n\nOthers who have studied this period have come to a different conclusion regarding the relationship between the aboriginal people and the visiting trepangers. Anthropologist Ian McIntosh has said that the initial effects of contact with the Macassan fishermen resulted in \"turmoil\" with the extent of Islamic influence being noteworthy. In another paper McIntosh concludes, \"strife, poverty and domination.. is a previously unrecorded legacy of contact between Aborigines and Indonesians.\" A report prepared by the History Department of the Australian National University says that the Macassans appear to have been welcomed initially, however relations deteriorated when, \"aborigines began to feel they were being exploited.. leading to violence on both sides\".\n\nStudies by anthropologists have found traditions that indicate Makassans negotiated for the right to fish certain waters. The exchange also involved the trade of cloth, tobacco, metal axes and knives, rice and gin. The Yolgnu of Arnhem Land also traded turtle-shell, pearls and cypress pine and some were employed as trepangers. While there is ample evidence of peaceful contact, some contact was hostile. Using Daeng Rangka described at least one violent confrontation with Aborigines, while Flinders heard advice from the Makassans to \"beware of the natives\". However, rock art and bark paintings appear to confirm that some Aboriginal workers willingly accompanied the Makassar back to their homeland of South Sulawesi, Indonesia across the Arafura Sea. Women were also occasional items of exchange according to Denise Russell, but their views and experiences have not been recorded. After visiting Groote Eylandt in the early 1930s, anthropologist Donald Thomson speculated that the traditional seclusion of women from strange men and their use of a portable bark screens \"may have been a result of contact with Macassans\".\n\nIt is possible that smallpox was introduced to northern Australia via Makassan contact in the 1820s. This remains unproven as First Fleet smallpox was already spreading across Australia from Sydney Cove. The prevalence of the hereditary Machado-Joseph Disease in the Groote Eylandt community has been attributed to outside contact. Recent genetic studies showed that the Groote Eylandt families with MJD shared a haplogroup with some families from Taiwanese, Indian, and Japanese families.\n\nSome Yolngu communities of Arnhem Land appear to have re-figured their economies from being largely land-based to largely sea-based with the introduction of Makassar technologies such as dug-out canoes, which were highly prized. These seaworthy boats, unlike their traditional bark canoes, allowed Yolngu to fish the ocean for dugongs and sea turtles. Macknight notes that both the dug-out canoe and shovel-nosed spear found in Arnhem Land were based on Macassarese prototypes.\n\nA Makassan pidgin became a lingua franca along the north coast, not just between Makassan and Aboriginal people, but also between different Aboriginal groups, who were brought into greater contact with each other by the seafaring Makassar culture. Words from the Makassarese language (related to Javanese and Indonesian) can still be found in Aboriginal language varieties of the north coast; examples include \"rupiah\" (money), \"jama\" (work), and \"balanda\" (white person), which originally came to the Makassar language via the Malay 'orang belanda' (Dutch person).\n\nRegina Ganter and Peta Stephenson, drawing on the work of Ian Mcintosh (2000), argue that aspects of Islam were creatively adapted by the Yolngu, and Muslim references survive in certain ceremonies and Dreaming stories today. Stephenson speculates that the Makassans may have also been the first to bring Islam to Australia.\n\nAccording to anthropologist John Bradley from Monash University, \"If you go to north-east Arnhem Land there is [a trace of Islam] in song, it is there in painting, it is there in dance, it is there in funeral rituals. It is patently obvious that there are borrowed items. With linguistic analysis as well, you're hearing hymns to Allah, or at least certain prayers to Allah.\"\n\nThough prevented from fishing across Arnhem Land, other Indonesian fishermen have continued to fish up and down the west coast, in what are now Australian waters, as they have done for hundreds of years before such territories were declared — some in traditional boats that their grandparents owned. Such fishing is considered illegal by the present-day Australian government, and since the 1970s, if caught by authorities, the boats are burned and the fishermen are returned to Indonesia. Most Indonesian fishing in Australian waters now occurs around what Australia coined \"Ashmore Reef\" (known in Indonesia as \"Pulau Pasir\") and the nearby islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14418884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14418884", "title": "Mark Bourrie", "text": "Mark Bourrie\n\nMark Bourrie is a Canadian lawyer, journalist, author, historian, and lecturer at Carleton University and the University of Ottawa.\n\nBourrie earned his BA in History at the University of Waterloo in 1990. He holds a diploma in public policy and administration from the University of Guelph, a master's degree in journalism from Carleton University, a doctorate in Canadian media history at the University of Ottawa and Juris Doctor in Common Law from the University of Ottawa.\n\nBefore beginning a career in journalism, Bourrie worked in remote areas of Canada for the Canadian Pacific Railway. He worked as a forest fire fighter in northern Ontario in 1981.\nBourrie was a summer student reporter at \"The Hamilton Spectator\" and \"The London Free Press\" and a student reporter at \"The Globe and Mail\" before taking a job on \"The Toronto Sun\" in 1979 as assistant business editor and news reporter. He worked for two decades as a freelance news and feature writer, primarily for \"The Globe and Mail\" from 1981 to 1989 and the \"Toronto Star\" from 1989 to 1999 and again in 2009-2010. He was Parliamentary correspondent for the \"Law Times\" from 1994 until 2006. He also wrote for the InterPress Service, the United Nations-sponsored news and feature service. By the late 1990s, he had branched out from newspaper freelance work to book and magazine writing.\n\nBourrie won a National Magazine Award (NMA) in 1999 and honorable mentions in 2000 and 2003, in the Social Affairs category.\nHe was part of an Ottawa magazine team nominated for a National Magazine Award in 2015. In 2004, he was nominated for a Canadian Association of Journalists (CAJ) award for an article about the Depression-era execution in Ottawa of a man who was probably innocent. The article was researched entirely in the National Archives of Canada. He won a Canadian Archaeological Association public writing award (1989) and several Ontario Newspaper Awards (formerly Western Ontario Newspaper Awards). He also won the Ontario Community Canadian Newspaper Award for columnist of the year in 2008. His 1979 eyewitness account of an F4 tornado in Woodstock, Ontario, helped earn his newspaper, \"The London Free Press\", a National Newspaper Award nomination. Most of his NMA-nominated work focused on issues related to people wrongly accused of criminal offences or terrorism. He has been a member of the Canadian Parliamentary Press Gallery since 1994.\n\nIn 2012 Bourrie stated that the Chinese government-owned Xinhua News Agency asked him to collect information on the Dalai Lama by exploiting his journalistic access to the Parliament of Canada. Bourrie stated that he was asked to write for Xinhua in 2009 and sought advice from the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), but was ignored. Bourrie stated that at that point he refused to continue to write articles for Xinhua and gave the agency no information about the Dalai Lama.\n\nIn the fall of 2012, he and several other Parliament Hill journalists started the online publication Blacklock's Reporter, a paywall-funded daily news report. The publication concentrates on news that is normally missed by media that focuses on partisan politics.\n\nBourrie lectures in History at Carleton University and Canadian Studies at the University of Ottawa. From 2007 to 2009, he was a lecturer at Concordia University's journalism school, teaching reporting, criticism and media history. He is also a lecturer at the Department of National Defence (Canada) School of Public Affairs, specializing in the history and practice of propaganda and censorship, and was a consultant to the Canadian War Museum for a show on war propaganda art. He has also written on the media relations strategy of William Lyon Mackenzie King.\n\n\"Ninety Fathoms Down\" (1995) was Canada's first collection of Great Lakes ship stories. His book on David Michael Krueger, a serial killer held in a psychiatric hospital in Ontario, was published in 1997 as \"By Reason of Insanity\" and was excerpted by several major Canadian newspapers. Bourrie's master's thesis was published by Key Porter as \"Hemp\" in 2004. His tenth book, adapted from his PhD thesis,\"The Fog of War,\" was published in July, 2011 by Douglas & McIntyre. It reached sixth on Maclean's magazine non-fiction bestseller list on September 1, 2011. His collection of Canada's best war correspondence, \"Fighting Words\", came out in the fall of 2012. HarperCollins published Bourrie's book on Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government's information control, called \"Kill the Messengers: Stephen Harper's Assault on Your Right to Know\". The book was released by HarperCollins Canada on January 27, 2015 and began appearing on best-seller lists ten days later. This book was listed as one of the Globe and Mail's Top 100 Books of 2015. In March, 2015, HarperCollins announced it had acquired Canadian rights to \"The Killing Game\", Bourrie's study of ISIS propaganda and recruitment, for publication in the spring of 2016 and it began appearing on the Canadian independent bookstore bestseller list in late April, 2016.\n\nBourrie was born in Toronto and raised in the Georgian Bay area of Ontario but later moved to Ottawa. He is married to lawyer Marion Van de Wetering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4096266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4096266", "title": "Michael Crawford (historian)", "text": "Michael Crawford (historian)\n\nProfessor Michael Hewson Crawford, (born 7 December 1939) is a British ancient historian and numismatist.\n\nCrawford was born in Twickenham on 7 December 1939. He was educated at St Paul's School, Oriel College, Oxford (BA, MA), and the British School at Rome.\n\nIn 1964, Crawford was elected a Research Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge. From 1969 until 1986 he was Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and University Lecturer in Ancient History in the University of Cambridge. He was Professor of Ancient History at University College London from 1986 until 2005, becoming Emeritus Professor on his retirement. He continued to undertake some teaching in the Department of History and works on Projet Volterra.\n\nIn 1964/65, Crawford was Eliza Procter Visiting Fellow at Princeton University. He has also been a Visiting Professor at University of Pavia (1983 and 1992), École Normale Supérieure (1984), University of Padua (1986), University of San Marino (1989), University of Milan (1990), University of L'Aquila (1990), École pratique des hautes études (1997), and École des hautes études en sciences sociales (1999).\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1980, a Foreign Member of the Istituto Lombardo in 1990 and a Foreign Corresponding Member of the Institut de France in 2006. In 2001 he was appointed an Officier de l'Ordre des Palmes Académiques de la République Française. He was awarded the medal of the Royal Numismatic Society in 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24401423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24401423", "title": "New Jersey Commission on Holocaust Education", "text": "New Jersey Commission on Holocaust Education\n\nThe New Jersey Commission on Holocaust Education is a government agency of the U.S. state of New Jersey. Its core mission is to promote Holocaust education throughout the state by surveying, designing, encouraging and promoting Holocaust and genocide education and awareness. It also provides programs and coordinates events to memorialize The Holocaust.\n\nThe Commission presents \"The Hela Young Award\" each year \"to honor a person in recognition of outstanding work in the community for the improvement of human relations among diverse peoples and for the improvement of the human condition.\" The award is named for Hela Yungst, a former television entertainer and beauty pageant winner, and past president of the Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39443791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39443791", "title": "Operation Rising Sun", "text": "Operation Rising Sun\n\nOperation Sun Rising was a cold war military intelligence program run by the ISI or Pakistan during the late 1970s. In the 1970s, the program was launched when the ISI believed the President Jimmy Carter's administration was planning of sabotaging and infiltrating the highly clandestine atomic bomb projects. The program purpose was to collect intelligence cycle on potential contingency plans of Carter administration sabotaging of certain bomb-related installations and facilities. The program was initiated in 1979 by Imtiaz Ahmed, then chief of Intelligence Bureau.\n\nThe \"Sun Rising\" was downscaled with the arrest and conviction of an agent working for CIA and the declaration of a few undercover CIA agents and US diplomats as personae non gratae and their return. The program remained highly secretive for several years after its operational activities activated since 1979. The program's existence was discovered by espionage investigative journalist, Ansar Abbasi of the \"News International\" in 2009. Since its discovery, the exact notion and nature of the program has been criticized by prominent news media of Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "10675355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10675355", "title": "Pedro de los Ríos", "text": "Pedro de los Ríos\n\nFray Pedro de los Ríos (died 1563–1565) was a Domician missionary in Mexico in the mid-16th century. Little is known about him, but he contributed to the creation of the manuscripts now known as the Codex Telleriano-Remensis and Codex Vaticanus A, which describe Aztec culture and history. The Codex Vaticanus A is also known as the Codex Ríos, after Pedro de los Ríos.\n\n"}
{"id": "25121502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25121502", "title": "Phenomenology (archaeology)", "text": "Phenomenology (archaeology)\n\nIn archaeology, phenomenology applies to the use of sensory experiences to view and interpret an archaeological site or cultural landscape. It first came to widespread attention among archaeologists with the publication of Christopher Tilley's \"A Phenomenology of Landscape\" (1994), in which he suggested it to be a useful technique that can be used to discover more about historical peoples and how they interact with the landscapes in which they live. He argued that, simply by looking at two-dimensional depictions of a landscape, such as on a map, archaeologists fail to understand how peoples living in hunter-gatherer and agricultural societies actually relate to those areas. He believed, therefore, that investigators should enter the very landscape that they are studying, and use their senses of sight, smell, and hearing to learn more about how historical peoples would have interpreted it. \n\nPhenomenology \"has provoked considerable discussion within the discipline\", receiving considerable criticism from the archaeological community who deem it to be \"unscientific\" and \"subjective\". In contrast to this, it has also been supported by a great number of archaeologists and nowadays is often used in fieldwork alongside other, more traditional methods. It has been used particularly in understanding prehistoric sites, such as the Neolithic Tavoliere Plain in Italy, and the Bronze Age landscape on Bodmin Moor, England.\n\n"}
{"id": "27370725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27370725", "title": "Ponce Creole", "text": "Ponce Creole\n\nPonce Creole is an architectural style created in Ponce, Puerto Rico, in the late 19th and early 20th century. This style of Puerto Rican buildings is found predominantly in residential homes in Ponce that developed between 1895 and 1920. Ponce Creole architecture borrows heavily from the traditions of the French, the Spaniards, and the Caribbean to create houses that were especially built to withstand the hot and dry climate of the region, and to take advantage of the sun and sea breezes characteristic of the southern Puerto Rico’s Caribbean Sea coast. It is a blend of wood and masonry, incorporating architectural elements of other styles, from Classical revival and Spanish Revival to Victorian.\n\nThe central district of Ponce in particular is a blend of Ponce Creole and Art Deco: \"The Historic District of Ponce: Second only to Old San Juan in terms of historical significance, the central district of Ponce is a blend of Ponce Creole and Art Deco building styles, dating mainly from the 1890s to the 1930s. One street, Calle Isabel, offers an array of Ponceño architectural styles, which often incorporate neoclassical details. The city underwent a massive restoration preceding the celebration of its 300th anniversary in 1996.\"\n\nArchitectural structures of the Ponce Creole style are amongst the 1,046 buildings being restored in Ponce: \"The commonwealth has allocated $440 million to restore a 66-block downtown area of 1,046 buildings ranging in style from old Spanish colonial to neoclassical, from \"Ponce Créole\" to Art Deco. Many of Ponce's central buildings were erected between the late 1890s and the 1930s, when the city was the hub of the island's rum, sugar cane and shipping industries and was known as La Perla del Sur, the 'Pearl of the South.' It was home to many artists, politicians, and poets.\" Today, three styles dominate the architectural landscape in Ponce: neoclassical, Ponce Creole, and Art Deco.\n\nPonce Creole is the name given to the architectural style that is unique to Ponce only: \"San Juan, the capital, was planned and built by the Spanish conquerors, one writer points out, while Ponce is the work of its native sons, making it a truly authentic Puerto Rican city.\" \n\nThe Ponce Creole style is characterized by wood and stucco buildings with broad columned porches and balconies and painted in the tasty pinks, peaches, and limes common to hot countries. The style is a blend of Spanish Creole and neoclassical architecture: \"In the late 19th century, Ponce developed its own blend of Spanish Creole and neoclassical architecture called Ponce Creole; it's characterized by the use of Corinthian columns, wrought-iron balconies, and gas lamps. It was dubbed Creole because it reminded some of New Orleans's French Quarter. Wealth from Ponce's sugarcane industry financed most of the elegantly ornamented buildings.\" Some of the other prominent characteristcis of this architectural style have been described by Pablo Ojeda O'Neill as \"a long raised porch, stone rostrium-raised homes to achieve ventilation and to protect the wood foundation, a series of front doors with wooden windows to maximize ventilation.\"\n\nIn their classic study about Ponce architecture, Reed and Torres identified the Ponce Creole style as \"a one-storyed residential masonry dwelling with front lintel doors and side gate, garage with interior ceiling arches, interior walls with wall guards, porch and garage ironwork in wrought-iron, multiple front double doors with four sets of wooden blinds each, porch with simple wooden columns with crowns in the classical tradition, simple door frames, and porch roof of wood and zinc.\"\n\nWhile Ponce had many prominent architects during this period, such as Manuel V. Domenech, Francisco Porrata-Doría, and Alfredo B. Wiechers, it was Blas Silva who distinguished himself in that he actually \"created\" a whole new architectural style.\n\nAdapting the curves of the Art Nouveau to the persistent Neo-classicism of Puerto Rico, Silva succeeded in creating a movement in architecture which broke away from the traditional forms while remaining within them. The traditional continuous raised verandah along the front facade is broken up into two and twisted out of its usual linearity into the curved forms preserved today. Characteristic of the architecture to abound in Ponce contemporaneous to Castillo 34, for example, is a profusion of aplique, and eclectic combination and juxtaposition of shapes, particularly curvilinear, and a general ostentation of articulation. The structure at 34 Castillo Street is listed in the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBlas Silva was probably the most established of the \"wedding-cake architects\" and was thus sought after mostly by the \"nouveau riche\" of the period. Silva's houses are among the richest in Ponce, among which the Font-Ubides House (a.k.a. Monsanto Residence) stands out for its circular porches. Other buildings by Blas Silva include the Frau Residence and the Salazar-Candal Residence, both also listed in the NRHP.\n\nIn addition to Blas Silva, at least 10 other architects designed in the Ponce Creole style: Herminio Valls, Francisco Valls, Eduardo Salichs, Alfredo Wiechers, Adolfo Nones, Francisco Grevi, Marcos Ramos, Elias Concepcion, and Miguel Porrata-Doria and Antonio Geigel.\n\nOne example of the Ponce Creole style can be appreciated is Blas’ 1913 design of the Font-Ubides House at Calle Castillo number 34. This residence stands out among the great houses of Ponce for its aggressive incorporation of curvilinear forms and ornament.\n\nCalle Cristina number 70, commissioned by Ermelindo Salazar and subsequently home to the Museum of Puerto Rican Music and currently headquarters of the Centro Cultural de Ponce Carmen Solá de Pereira, is another example of Ponce Creole architecture. Today, Cristina 70 houses a museum and gallery depicting the various influences on Puerto Rican art. It was designed by Juan Bertoli Calderoni.\n\nThe Frau Residence at Calle Reina number 107 is a magnificent example of the architecture of Ponce's aristocracy of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. \"This structure is one of the remaining symbols of Ponce's \"Golden Period\" in which land-owning families lived in the urban core and great immigrations from Europe, Latin America and the other Antilles had turned the originally small settlement into the cultural capital of Puerto Rico. The \"Criollo Ponceno\" or Ponce Creole architecture to which this building belongs is extremely important in itself since it represents the birth of a high-style native architecture, a hybrid of influences rather than the purely Spanish, or spontaneous vernacular expressions of previous centuries. In particular, the Frau Residence is significant within this genre as it was designed by one of Ponce's most well-known architects, Blas Silva. Silva was particularly well known among the wealthy classes of the period. His buildings can usually be characterized by what is popularly referred to as \"wedding-cake architecture\" of the landed nouyeau riche, for the richness of ornament and detail. Other buildings by Silva include the Monsanto Residence and the Salazar-Candal Residence, both listed in the NRHP.\"\n\nThe Salazar-Candal Residence located at Calle Isabel 53, but today occupied by the Museo de la Historia de Ponce is one of a group of stylistically eclectic houses built in Ponce between 1900 and 1915. Designed by architect Blas C. Silva in 1911, the building reflects an emerging tendency to incorporate freely disparate and competing architectural motifs. The facade is distinctly rendered in rococo and Moorish detailing to emphasize its bi-functional character as a home and an office respectively.\n\nThe \"fin de siecle\" detailing and wall paintings present a material document of the 19th-century European immigration to Puerto Rico and the way of life of the landed bourgeois Criollo (Creole) class. In the architecture of Ponce of the period, elements of the Puerto Rican folk dwelling are integrated to Spanish and French-influenced classical detailing, thus resulting in a Ponce-Creole Architecture, of which the Zaldo de Nebot Residence at Calle Marina #27 is a prime example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1523641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523641", "title": "Predrag Dragić", "text": "Predrag Dragić\n\nPredrag Dragić Kijuk, (Serbian Cyrillic Предраг Р. Драгић Кијук) (1945 in Kragujevac – 29 January 2012) was a humanist, writer, essayist, anthologist, playwright, literary and art critic, lexicographer, medievalist, historian, translator, liberal philosopher and researcher of Dostoevsky. He graduated at the Belgrade University: philology, philosophy and law, and took specializations in Italy, Greece, Russia, France and Norway.\n\nDragić Kijuk was editor of the prestigious publications of the Association of Writers of Serbia for years (operational editor of the \"Serbian Literary Magazine\" and the editor in chief of the \"Literary Newspaper\"). He authored many books, studies, and essays, five of which have been translated into foreign languages. He specifically studied old Serbian literature (in 1987 he published the provocative and voluminous study \"Medieval and Renaissance Serbian Poetry 1200-1700\"). His themes of interest are diverse and original, and his intellectual curiosity is a mixture of modern world poetry, philosophy of numbers, Christian esthetics, the works of Dostoevsky, Gogol and Andreyev, the history of European civilization, European esoteric writers, protohistory of Serbs and Slavs, the phenomenon of migrations and the Christian-Orthodox mysticism. Also, he has devoted his attention in his two latest books to the aberration of modern politics and the influence of the Vatican on the destiny of the Serbian people (\"Bestiarium Humanum\", 2002; \"Atlantocracy As a Jesuit Ideal\", 2005).\n\nHis book \"Tempter and the Redeemer\" (1990) was the first to introduce the theistic method into the genre of essay writing in Serbia, equaling it to other methods in the interpretation of literature, while the book \"Going Out to Play\" (1990) has had cult influence on European personalism. In 2003, Sir John Tavener, the most popular British composer reputed as a \"classical artist\" used texts from the book \"Medieval and Renaissance Serbian Poetry 1200-1700\" written by Predrag R. Dragić Kijuk, for his monumental work \"The Veil of the Temple\" (performed by four choirs, several orchestras and soloists, seven hours in duration).\n\n"}
{"id": "30048655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30048655", "title": "Proper right and proper left", "text": "Proper right and proper left\n\nProper right and proper left are conceptual terms used to unambiguously convey relative direction when describing an image or other object. The \"proper right\" hand of a figure is the hand that would be regarded by that figure as its right hand. In a frontal representation, that appears on the left as the viewer sees it, creating the potential for ambiguity if the hand is just described as the \"right hand\".\n\nThe terms are mainly used in discussing images of humans, whether in art history, medical contexts such as x-ray images, or elsewhere, but they can be used in describing any object that has an unambiguous front and back (for example furniture) or, when describing things that move or change position, with reference to the original position. However a more restricted use may be preferred, and the internal instructions for cataloguing objects in the \"Inventory of American Sculpture\" at the Smithsonian American Art Museum say that \"The terms \"proper right\" and \"proper left\" should be used when describing figures only\". In heraldry, right and left is always used in the meaning of proper right and proper left, as for the imaginary bearer of a coat of arms; to avoid confusion, the Latin terms dexter and sinister are often used.\n\nThe alternative is to use language that makes it clear that the viewer's perspective is being used. The swords in the illustrations might be described as: \"to the left as the viewer sees it\", \"at the view's left\", \"at the viewer's left\", and so on. However these formulations do not work for freestanding sculpture in the round, where the viewer might be at any position around the sculpture. A British 19th-century manual for military drill contrasts \"proper left\" with \"present left\" when discussing the orientation of formations performing intricate movements on a parade ground, \"proper\" meaning the orientraion at the start of the drill.\n\nThe terms are analogous to the nautical port and starboard, where \"port\" is to a watercraft as \"proper left\" is to a sculpture, and they are used for essentially the same reason. Their use obviates the need for potentially ambiguous language such as \"my right,\" \"your left,\" and so on, by expressing the direction in a manner that holds true regardless of the relative orientations of the object and observer. Another example is stage right and left in the theatre, which uses the actor's orientation, \"stage right\" equating to the audience's \"house left\".\n\nThis is from the auction catalogue description of an African wood figure: There is extensive insect loss in the proper right leg, some at the proper right elbow, and at the fronts of both feet. There is a chip off the proper right breast, and the proper right leg was broken off and reglued.\n\nDescribing an Indian sculpture:The figure standing on the yakṣī's proper left, however, is not a mirror image of the other male ...\n"}
{"id": "45043574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45043574", "title": "Radoš Ljušić", "text": "Radoš Ljušić\n\nRadoš Ljušić (, born November 22, 1949) is a Serbian historian and academic. He is also politically active, having been member of the Serbian Progressive Party since 2008, and earlier of the Democratic Party of Serbia.\n\nLjušić was born in Istok, Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, PR Serbia. He finished school and gymnasium in Istok. He then studied history at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy (1974).\n\n\nHe is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party since 2008, having earlier been a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "16107811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16107811", "title": "Reception of Islam in Early Modern Europe", "text": "Reception of Islam in Early Modern Europe\n\nThere was a certain amount of cultural contact between Europe in the Renaissance to Early Modern period and the Islamic world (at the time primarily represented by the Ottoman Empire and, geographically more remote, Safavid Persia), however decreasing in intensity after medieval cultural contact in the era of the crusades and the \"Reconquista\".\n\nEuropean contact with Islam has been mostly limited with the military effort opposing the expansion of the Ottoman Empire.\nThere was limited direct interaction between the two cultures even though there was plenty of trade between Europe and the Middle East at this time. Merchants would often deal through an intermediary, a practice common since the time of the Roman Empire. Historians have noted that even during the 12th and 14th centuries the two parties had little interest in learning about each other.\n\nThe history of the Ottoman Empire is intimately connected to the history of Renaissance and Early Modern Europe.\nThe European Renaissance was significantly triggered by the Fall of Constantinople in 1453 (resulting in a wave of Byzantine scholars fleeing to Italy). The Ottoman Empire reached its historical apogee in 1566, coinciding with the beginning of the scientific revolution in Europe, which would lead to the political dominance of emerging modern Europe over the course of the following century.\n\nGranada was the last stronghold of the region of Spain known as Andalusia, which was considered a pinnacle of culture in the western Muslim Empire. Trade from Granada included silk, ceramic, and porcelain. From 1230 until its fall to the Christians, the city was under the rule of the Nasrid dynasty . Ferdinand III of Castile had conquered all Andalusia by 1251. It was not until after the 1469 marriage between Prince Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile that Alhambra, the Nasrid palace of Granada, fell to Spanish forces. Alhambra fell to the combined forces of Isabella and Ferdinand on January 2, 1492.\n\nAlhambra was known as one of the greatest achievements of urban art in the Muslim world during the time of the Nasrids. The Court of the Myrtles and the Court of the Lions are the only two portions of the palace to survive to present time.\n\nThe first English convert to Islam mentioned by name is John Nelson. 16th century writer Richard Hakluyt claimed he was forced to convert, though he mentions in the same story other Englishmen who had converted willingly.\n\nCaptain John Ward of Kent was one of a number of British sailors who became pirates based in the Maghreb who also converted to Islam (see also Barbary pirates). Later, some Unitarians became interested in the faith, and Henry Stubbes wrote so favourably about Islam that it is thought he too had converted to the faith.\n\nFrom 1609 to 1616, England lost 466 ships to Barbary pirates, who sold the passengers into slavery in North Africa. In 1625, it was reported that Lundy, an island in the Bristol Channel which had been a pirate lair for much of the previous half century, had been occupied by three Ottoman pirates who were threatening to burn Ilfracombe; Algerine rovers were using the island as a base in 1635, although the island had itself been attacked and plundered by a Spanish raid in 1633. In 1627, Barbary pirates under command of the Dutch renegade Jan Janszoon operating from the Moroccan port of Salé occupied Lundy. During this time there were reports of captured slaves being sent to Algiers and of the Islamic flag flying over Lundy.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire emerged in 1299 and lasted until 1919. The Ottomans were strong proponents of Sunni Islam. In the 13th century, the kingdom was only in a small portion of northwest Anatolia but by the 16th century, it expanded to the heartland of the Byzantine Empire and its capital, Constantinople. The height of the Ottoman Empire occurred under the sultans Selim the Grim, also known as Selim I (1512–1520) and Suleyman the Magnificent (1520–1566). Under their reigns, the Turks conquered Egypt, Syria, and the North coast of Africa, the Red Sea, the island of Rhodes, and the Balkans all the way to the Great Hungarian Plain.\n\nMany members of Kosovo’s higher class, such as the Serbs and the Vlachs, converted to Islam during the Dušan period (1331–1355). A large part of the reason for the conversion was probably economic and social, as Muslims had considerably more rights and privileges than Christian subjects. As a result, Kosovo’s three largest towns were majority Muslim by 1485, where Christians had once formed a dense population before the rise of the Ottoman Empire. The movement was effective due to the wandering of Sufis who traveled around the region teaching religion as they went. By the 16th century, towns like Prizren, Skopje, and Đakovica had established centers of learning that became crucial in inspiring and educating scholars who would then use their knowledge to benefit the Ottoman Empire and the Muslim world. From this time onward, many books circulated in the region that had a Persian influence while written in the Albanian language and Arabic alphabet. The oldest genre in this style is known as \"Bejtexhinji\" poetry.\n\nSlavery at the time of the European Renaissance was a socio-economic factor especially around the Mediterranean Sea region. It was accepted and approved for both Muslims and Christians. Most slaves came from warfare, privateering, or the international slave trade. Only some of the Arabian slaves in Europe were Muslims by origin. \nMany of the Muslim slaves were baptized before they were sold for the first time and then were given a new Christian name. There were, however, some Muslims who were not baptized and who kept their original names, but if they had children the newborns were immediately baptized. Most Muslim slaves converted to Christianity because there was hard social pressure at the time for them to convert. They also improved their social position by converting to Christianity, such as they would rise from a slave to a serf.\n\nThere were a small percentage of learned Muslim captives who were among the intellectual elite in their original hometowns among the Muslim prisoners and slaves. Captured Muslim scientists, physicians, and copyists were in high demand at slave markets. Learned Muslim captives were held in high regard by the authorities and they were sold for very high prices. They were wanted for the knowledge and advancements the Arabs had made over the Europeans. Copyists of Arabic manuscripts were needed in Spain to translate Arabic texts for the practice of medicine, the study of Arabic philosophy, and because of the popular interest in Europe for the translations of Arabic scientific texts. Learned Muslim captives played a very important role in the spread of Arabic science and philosophy over the Christian world.\n\nThe liberation of Muslim slaves was a state affair and elevated the popular esteem of the sovereign government. Muslim slaves were either freed or exchanged through special legislation and international treaties.\n\nOne account of a highly esteemed Muslim slave is of Moroccan geographer al-Hassan al-Wazzan al-Fasi, who made important contributions to geography and Italian texts. In 1519, al-Fasi was captured by a group of Sicilian pirates while he was on his way home from Egypt. When he was picked up he had scholarly notes on him that he had made from his travels through Africa. The pirates soon realized his value and they gave him to Pope Leo X in Rome. Al-Fasi was baptized on June 6, 1520, and renamed Joannis Leo, but he became known as Leo the African or Leo Africanus. Leo Africanus learned Italian, taught in Barcelona, and made Arabic notes in a book called Description of Africa, which was used for many years as an important source of geographic information on Muslim Africa.\n\nThe Barbary States, who were allies of the Ottoman Empire, sent Barbary pirates to raid parts of Western Europe in order to capture Christian slaves to sell at slave markets in the Arab World throughout the Renaissance period. Contemporaneous accounts suggest that a population of about 35,000 European slaves was maintained on the Barbary Coast. One writer estimates, on the basis that about 8,500 fresh slaves per annum would be required to maintain such a population, that as many as 1.25 million Europeans may have been taken in the 250 years to 1780, though there are no records to confirm such numbers. The slaves were captured mainly from seaside villages in Italy, Spain and Portugal, and from farther places like France or England, the Netherlands, Ireland and even Iceland and North America, ultimately provoking the First Barbary War of the newly-formed United States.\n\nFollowing the first wave of Arabic interest during the Renaissance of the 12th century, which saw numerous Arabic texts being translated into Latin, there was a 'second wave' of interest in the study of Arabic literature, Arabic science and Islamic philosophy in 16th-century France and 17th-century England.\nTogether with the development of the Franco-Ottoman alliance, cultural and scientific exchanges between France and the Ottoman Empire flourished. French scholars such as Guillaume Postel or Pierre Belon were able to travel to Asia Minor and the Middle East to collect information.\nScientific exchange is thought to have occurred, as numerous works in Arabic, especially pertaining to astronomy were brought back, annotated and studied by scolars such as Guillaume Postel. Transmission of scientific knowledge, such as the Tusi-couple, may have occurred on such occasions, at the time when Copernicus was establishing his own astronomical theories.\n\nBooks, such as the Coran, were brought back to be integrated in Royal libraries, such as the \"Bibliothèque Royale de Fontainebleau\", to create a foundation for the \"Collège des lecteurs royaux\", future Collège de France. French novels and tragedies were written with the Ottoman Empire as a theme or background. In 1561, Gabriel Bounin published \"La Soltane\", a tragedy highlighting the role of Roxelane in the 1553 execution of Mustapha, the elder son of Suleiman. This tragedy marks the first time the Ottomans were introduced on stage in France.\n\nArabic manuscripts were considered the key to a 'treasure house' of ancient knowledge, which led to the founding of Arabic Chairs at Oxford and Cambridge Universities, where Arabic was taught. A large collection of Arabic manuscripts were acquired, collected in places such as the Bodleian Library at Oxford. These Arabic manuscripts were sought after by natural philosophers for their research in subjects such as mathematics and observational astronomy, and also encompassed subjects ranging from science, religion, and medicine, to typography and garden plants.\n\nBesides scientific and philosophical literature, works of Arabic fiction were also translated into Latin and English during the 17th and 18th centuries. The most famous one was the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), which was first translated into English in 1706 and has since then had a profound influence on English literature. Another famous work was Ibn Tufail's philosophical novel \"Hayy ibn Yaqdhan\", which was translated into Latin as \"Philosophus Autodidactus\" by Edward Pococke the Younger in 1671 and then into English by Simon Ockley in 1708. The English translation of \"Hayy ibn Yaqdhan\", set on a desert island, may have inspired Daniel Defoe to write \"Robinson Crusoe\", considered the first novel in English, in 1719. Later translated literary works include \"Layla and Majnun\" and Ibn al-Nafis' \"Theologus Autodidactus\".\nThe Muslim Moors had a noticeable influence on the works of George Peele and William Shakespeare. Some of their works featured Moorish characters, such as Peele's \"The Battle of Alcazar\" and Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\", \"Titus Andronicus\" and \"Othello\", which featured a Moorish Othello as its title character. These works are said to have been inspired by several Moorish delegations from Morocco to Elizabethan England around 1600. A portrait was painted of one of the Moorish ambassadors, Abd el-Ouahed ben Messaoud ben Mohammed Anoun, who had come to promote an Anglo-Moroccan alliance.\n\nAt the Bodleian Library of Oxford University, there were hundreds of Arabic manuscripts, as well as dozens of Persian and Turkish ones, available during the 17th century. These included works on Islamic law and Arabic grammar; the lexicography of Al-Firuzabadi and Al-Jawhari; works on Arabic poetry; the Indian literary work \"Kalila and Dimna\"; the proverbs of Al-Maydani and \"Maqama\" of Al-Hariri of Basra; the medical works of Al-Razi, Avicenna, Ibn al-Baitar, Hunayn ibn Ishaq, Al-Majusi, Ibn al-Jazzar, Abu al-Qasim al-Zahrawi, Ibn Zuhr, Maimonides and Ibn al-Nafis; the astronomical works of Ibn al-Banna, Ibn al-Shatir, Al-Farghani and Alhazen; the \"Masudic Canon\" by Abu Rayhan Biruni and the \"Book of Fixed Stars\" by Al-Sufi; several Ottoman scientific works by Taqi al-Din Muhammad ibn Ma'ruf; occult and alchemical works; the \"Secretum Secretorum\"; Al-Safadi's biographical dictionary \"Al-Sihah\"; the historical works of Al-Tabari, Al-Isfahani, Al-Makin, Ibn Khallikan, Al-Dhahabi, Al-Waqidi, Ibn al-Shina, Al-Utbi, Ibn al-Jawzi, Ibn al-Athir, Sibt ibn al-Jawzi, Ibn Abi Usaibia, Bar-Hebraeus, Al-Tunaynai, Ibn Duqmaq, Ibn Taghribirdi, Al-Suyuti, Al-Jannabi, Ibn Hayyan, Ibn Miskawayh, Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani and Al-Maqrizi; the \"History of Time\" by Al-Masudi and volume five of Ibn Khaldun's historiographical work \"Kitab al-Ibar\"; the historical and geographical works of Abu al-Fida; the \"Sahih al-Bukhari\" and Qur'anic commentaries; the \"Algebra\" by Al-Khwarizmi and the mathematical works of Nasir al-Din al-Tusi; the \"Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity\" and Avienna's \"The Book of Healing\"; the works of Ibn Bajjah and Ibn Tufail; geographical works of Ibn Khordadbeh and Ibn Hawqal; . A Latin translation of two of Ali Qushji's works, the \"Tract on Arithmetic\" and \"Tract on Astronomy\", was published by John Greaves in 1650.\n\nThe turban often represented Muslims in the paintings of Italian and Flemish artists when they depicted scenes of the Ottoman Empire and Biblical lore. Famous figures such as Suleyman the Magnificent, Hagar, and Hayreddin Barbarossa appear in these paintings. The tradition of depicting Biblical characters in turbans has continued through to this century, as at least one of the wise men is always depicted with a turban.\n\nTurban iconography was highly prominent, especially in Renaissance England. While friendly relations were formed between England and the Islamic civilization of the Middle East in the early 16th century, Turkish fashions became popular for the higher classes. During times of interaction with Istanbul, Queen Elizabeth I of England wore Turkish clothing styles. It was believed that she favored working with the Islamic sultans of Istanbul rather than the Roman Catholic leaders of Europe. These suspicions were heightened when she asked Sultan Murad III and his son Mohammad III for military assistance. Although she never did receive any assistance from the sultans, her relations with the Sultan and his son did not waver.\n\nAlexander Ross, a writer and controversialist living in the first half of the 17th century, praised the Turks for being “more modest in their conversation generally than we; Men and Women converse not together promiscuously, as among us.” Ross believed that England could learn a great deal from the Muslims. \nDuring the Renaissance, English women disrespected their husbands because they were free to do what they wanted, which society believed led to a moral deterioration. European women also began leaving home to become male-like figures in society. Other European women attacked male chauvinism and defended the status of women by handing out pamphlets. Women rebelled against male religious hierarchy and began to replace men as preachers and pastors. Christian writers highly admired Muslim women because they were frugal compared to English women, they were respected by their husbands because they did not play “false” with them, and because Muslim women went immediately back to work after giving birth and they still had time to raise their children themselves, unlike English women.\n\nThe Muslim model became an example of the “exotic” and “Utopian” ideal because it was not possible in European society. European men sought to reinforce the traditional role of women and wanted their women to adhere to the model of Muslim women as frugal, obedient, wearing modest apparel, and respectful towards their husbands. Muslims and Englishmen differed in various ways, especially in their religious beliefs and militarism, but they did agree with each other on the representation of Muslim women.\n\n"}
{"id": "855728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855728", "title": "Red McCombs", "text": "Red McCombs\n\nBilly Joe \"Red\" McCombs (born October 19, 1927), is an American billionaire. He is the founder of the Red McCombs Automotive Group in San Antonio, Texas, a co-founder of Clear Channel Communications, chairman of Constellis Group, a former owner of the San Antonio Spurs, San Antonio Force, Denver Nuggets, the Minnesota Vikings, and the namesake of the McCombs School of Business at the University of Texas at Austin. He is on the Forbes 400 list of richest Americans. He is also known for his philanthropy.\n\nIn 2012, the \"San Antonio Express-News\" reported McCombs' net worth at $1.4 billion. He was ranked the 913th richest man in the world. Two other San Antonio men at the time, Charles Butt of the H-E-B supermarket chain and Rodney Lewis, a natural gas driller, finished above McCombs on the list. In 2017, \"Forbes\" placed the value of McCombs' fortune at $1.6 billion with a ranking of No. 1,290 on a list of the world's billionaires.\n\nMcCombs was born in rural Spur in Dickens County in West Texas. His nickname \"Red\" comes from his hair color. His father was a mechanic who earned $25 per week but tithed through the First Baptist Church of Spur each week. McCombs recalled having seen his parents \"share with those who had less, and the joy of giving never ceased to amaze me.\"\n\nIn 1958, McCombs and his fellow salesman, Austin Hemphill, moved to San Antonio to create Hemphill-McCombs Ford, which was the foundation for what ultimately became the Red McCombs Automotive Group. McCombs has served as chairman of the trustees at Southwestern University and chairman of the University of Texas's M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. His particular interest in M. D. Anderson was accentuated in 1986, when he visited a dying friend undergoing treatment there. He expressed how he was overcome by the kindness of every employee he met at the hospital. The workers, he found, had been trained to offer compassion and solace to all who come through the doors. He joined the Anderson board and in 2005 donated $30 million to the hospital. The business school at the University of Texas was renamed the Red McCombs School of Business in recognition of his $50 million donation to the institution. The $50 million actually yielded $100 million in matching funds for new faculty positions, fellowships, and scholarships.\n\nHe is the board chairman of Academi. McCombs is a member of the Alamo Endowment Board, which raises funds for the preservation and management of the Alamo Mission in downtown San Antonio. With the state purchasing three historic buildings in Alamo Plaza, McCombs said in October 2015 that he envisions an expansion program consistent with the reality of the Alamo story to enhance the overall experience of future visitors to the historic site.\n\nMcCombs is a reformed alcoholic, who could \"handle his social drinking\" until the age of forty-eight, when overcome with convulsions he went into a five-day coma at a medical facility in Houston. McCombs said in a Christmas 2016 interview, \"God was good to me and for whatever reason wanted me to live, because I was really dead when I left in 1975 to go to Houston on that medical plane. They told Charline, 'Go ahead and start making arrangements because we are losing him.'\" McCombs said that he recovered and never again had a desire for alcohol. The McCombs Foundation has donated more than $118 million to charity. It is operated by his daughters who work to keep overhead at a minimum. The foundation makes small donations too, such as $1,000 to Mothers Against Drunk Driving, which are rarely publicized. McCombs said that he is a large donor to charitable causes because \"it makes me feel so good about doing it.\"\n\nIn 2017, McCombs filed a $1 million civil suit against seven of his former executives whom he alleged took \"trade secrets\" from McCombs' company to begin a competing firm in Houston, F4 Resources. Defendants in the suit include William \"Bill\" Forney, Jr., who worked with McCombs for forty-four years, former chief financial officer Ricky Halkin, vice president of operations Larry Wyont, vice president of land Charles Forney, and the vice president of geology, Philip Forney. McCombs had established McCombs Energy in Houston in 1998 by merging his 50 percent interest in his partnership with William Forney with other assets purchased from Forney. McCombs claims that his former associates, however, lowered the proper payout that he was due from his investments. McCombs said that the former executives shattered personal relationships of some four decades.\n\nMcCombs attributes construction of the HemisFair Arena as the essential development to the success of the Spurs. He contacted Lee Iacocca, then president of the Ford Motor Company, to seek funding for the arena to correspond with the 1968 World's Fair. At first, Iacocca offered only $250,000 for the purchase of an art object, and he scolded McCombs and ridiculed San Antonio as \"that little old dusty ass town of yours down there [with] no political or economic significance to the Ford Motor Company.\" McCombs persisted and asked U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson to contact Henry Ford, II, and in a continued heated exchange even told Iacocca that Ford needed to improve the quality of its 1968 vehicles. McCombs located other investors, and the Dallas Chaparrals came to San Antonio five years later in 1973. McCombs realized the importance of television to sports events and saw the opportunity to bring San Antonio to a national stage. Under the McCombs administration the Spurs had their first superstar in George Gervin, called \"The Iceman\", who was recruited from the Virginia Squires.\n\nTwo years after taking the Spurs into the NBA, McCombs sold off his stake in the Spurs and bought another former ABA team, the Denver Nuggets. He held onto the team until 1985, when he sold it to Sidney Shlenker. In 1998, McCombs bought the Minnesota Vikings for US$250 million. After an unsuccessful attempt to replace the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, McCombs sold the team to new (and current) owner Zygi Wilf before the 2005 football season. McCombs was also actively involved in thoroughbred racing and breeding for many years as a major partner in Walmac Farm, a leading American breeding farm, in Lexington, Kentucky.\n\nMcCombs owns a piece of property surrounded by National Forest near Wolf Creek ski area, a resort in southern Colorado owned by the Pitcher family. McCombs has long wanted to develop a resort community on his property, a plan that has drawn opposition and lawsuits from environmentalists and surrounding communities. McCombs has been unsuccessful in his attempts to convince the court to remove a key roadblock preventing his proposed development. McCombs then attempted to build a casino resort at Navajo Canyon on Lake Powell. The local Navajo Nation chapters, local government officials, all unanimously rejected the casino proposal and any projects by Red McCombs.\n\nIn 2013, McCombs was found by the United States Supreme Court to have engaged in a sham tax avoidance transaction and was therefore liable for a valuation misstatement penalty. McCombs severely criticized the 2014 University of Texas hire of Charlie Strong as football coach. He described Strong as \"great position coach ... not on a par with other candidates.\" Three days later he apologized, and pledged \"total support\" for Strong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1639158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1639158", "title": "Sentimentality", "text": "Sentimentality\n\nSentimentality originally indicated the reliance on feelings as a guide to truth, but current usage defines it as an appeal to shallow, uncomplicated emotions at the expense of reason.\n\nSentimentalism in philosophy is a view in meta-ethics according to which morality is somehow grounded in moral sentiments or emotions. Sentimentalism in literature is both a device used to induce a tender emotional response disproportionate to the situation at hand, (and thus to substitute heightened and generally uncritical feeling for normal ethical and intellectual judgments), and a heightened reader response willing to invest previously prepared emotions to respond disproportionately to a literary situation.\n\n\"A sentimentalist\", Oscar Wilde wrote, \"is one who desires to have the luxury of an emotion without paying for it.\" In James Joyce's \"Ulysses\", Stephen Dedalus sends Buck Mulligan a telegram that reads \"The sentimentalist is he who would enjoy without incurring the immense debtorship for a thing done.\" James Baldwin considered that \"Sentimentality, the ostentatious parading of excessive and spurious emotion, is the mark of dishonesty, the inability to feel...the mask of cruelty\". This Side of Paradise by F. Scott Fitzgerald contrasts sentimentalists and romantics with Amory Blaine telling Rosalind, “I'm not sentimental--I'm as romantic as you are. The idea, you know, is that the sentimental person thinks things will last--the romantic person has a desperate confidence that they won't.” \n\nIn the mid-18th century, a querulous lady had complained to Richardson: \"What, in your opinion, is the meaning of the word \"sentimental\", so much in vogue among the polite...Everything clever and agreeable is comprehended in that word...such a one is a \"sentimental\" man; we were a \"sentimental\" party\". What she was observing was the way the term was becoming a European obsession - part of the Enlightenment drive to foster the individual's capacity to recognise virtue at a visceral level. Everywhere in the sentimental novel or the sentimental comedy, \"lively and effusive emotion is celebrated as evidence of a good heart\". Moral philosophers saw sentimentality as a cure for social isolation; and Adam Smith indeed considered that \"the poets and romance writers, who best paint...domestic affections, Racine and Voltaire; Richardson, Maurivaux and Riccoboni; are, in such cases, much better instructors than Zeno\" and the Stoics.\n\nBy the close of the century, however, a reaction had occurred against what had come to be considered sentimental excess, by then (and perhaps still now) seen as false and self-indulgent - especially after Schiller's 1795 division of poets into two classes, the \"naive\" and the \"sentimental\" - and regarded respectively as natural and as artificial.\n\nIn modern times \"sentimental\" is a pejorative term that has been casually applied to works of art and literature that exceed the viewer or reader's sense of decorum—the extent of permissible emotion—and standards of taste: \"excessiveness\" is the criterion; \"Meretricious\" and \"contrived\" sham pathos are the hallmark of sentimentality, where the morality that underlies the work is both intrusive and pat.\n\n'Sentimentality often involves situations which evoke very intense feelings: love affairs, childbirth, death', but where the feelings are expressed with 'reduced intensity and duration of emotional experience...diluted to a safe strength by idealisation and simplification'.\n\nNevertheless, as a social force sentimentality is a hardy perennial, appearing for example as 'Romantic sentimentality...in the 1960s slogans \"flower power\" and \"make love not war\"'. The 1990s public outpouring of grief at the death of Diana, 'when they go on about fake sentimentality in relation to Princess Diana', also raised issues about the 'powerful streak of sentimentality in the British character' - the extent to which 'sentimentality was a grand old national tradition'.\n\nBaudrillard has cynically attacked the sentimentality of Western humanitarianism, suggesting that 'in the New Sentimental Order, the affluent become consumers of the \"ever more delightful spectacle of poverty and catastrophe, and of the moving spectacle of our own attempts to alleviate it\"'. There is also the issue of what has been called 'indecent sentimentality...[in] pornographical pseudo-classics', so that one might say for example that ' \"Fanny Hill\" is a \"very\" sentimental novel, a faked Eden'.\n\nHowever, in sociology it is possible to see the \"sentimental tradition\" as extending into the present-day - to see, for example, 'Parsons as one of the great social philosophers in the sentimental tradition of Adam Smith, Burke, McLuhan, and Goffman...concerned with the relation between the rational and sentimental bases of social order raised by the market reorientation of motivation'. Francis Fukuyama takes up the theme through the exploration of 'society's stock of shared values as \"social capital\" '.\n\nIn a 'subjective confession' of 1932, 'Ulysses: a Monologue', the analytic psychologist Carl Jung anticipates Baudrillard when he writes: 'Think of the lamentable role of popular sentiment in wartime! Think of our so-called humanitarianism! The psychiatrist knows only too well how each of us becomes the helpless but not pitiable victim of his own sentiments. Sentimentality is the superstructure erected upon brutality. Unfeelingness is the counter-position and inevitably suffers from the same defects.' [Carl Jung: The Spirit in Man, Art and Literature, London: Routledge, 2003, p. 143]\n\nComplications enter into the ordinary view of sentimentality, however, when changes in fashion and setting— the \"climate of thought\"—intrude between the work and the reader. The view that sentimentality is relative is inherent in John Ciardi's \"sympathetic contract\", in which the reader agrees to join with the writer when approaching a poem. The example of the death of Little Nell in Charles Dickens' \"The Old Curiosity Shop\" (1840–41), \"a scene that for many readers today might represent a defining instance of sentimentality\", brought tears to the eye of many highly critical readers of the day. The reader of Dickens, Richard Holt Hutton observed, \"has the painful impression of pathos feasting upon itself.\"\n\n'Recent feminist theory has clarified the use of the term as it applies to the genre' of the sentimental novel, stressing the way that 'different cultural assumptions arising from the oppression of women gave liberating significance to the works' piety and mythical power to the ideals of the heroines'.\n\nThe sentimental fallacy is an ancient rhetorical device that attributes human emotions, such as grief or anger, to the forces of nature. This is also known as the pathetic fallacy, 'a term coined by John Ruskin...for the practice of attributing human emotions to the inanimate or unintelligent world' - as in 'the sentimental poetic trope of the \"pathetic fallacy\", beloved of Theocritus, Virgil and their successors' in the pastoral tradition.\n\nThe term is also used more indiscriminately to discredit any argument as being based on a misweighting of emotion: 'sentimental fallacies...that men, that we, are better - nobler - than we know ourselves to be'; 'the \"sentimental fallacy\" of constructing novels or plays \"out of purely emotional patterns\"'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36424340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36424340", "title": "Shahida Malik", "text": "Shahida Malik\n\nMajor-General Shahida Malik (Urdu: شاهدا ملک; HI(M), SI(M)), is a retired and high-ranking two-star general officer and a former deputy commander (Surgeon-General) of the Pakistan Army Medical Corps.\n\nShe is the first lady officer in the Pakistan Army to have reached to a two-star rank. Trained as a doctor, she was appointed the Inspector-General Hospitals as well as deputy commander of the Pakistan Army Medical Corps before retiring in 2004.\n\nShe graduated with her MBBS degree from Fatima Jinnah Medical College, Lahore and got selected for Army Medical Corps in 1970.\n\nShe was promoted to Major General rank on 17 June 2002 on the orders of the then Chief of Army Staff, General Pervez Musharraf.\n"}
{"id": "13380925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13380925", "title": "Simon MacKenzie", "text": "Simon MacKenzie\n\nSimon MacKenzie (also known as S.P. MacKenzie) is a military historian, author and academic. He was educated at the University of Toronto and received a PhD from the University of Oxford in 1989.\n\nMacKenzie teaches at the University of South Carolina. He has won the Templer Medal, a £5000 prize offered by the Society for Army Historical Research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "537565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=537565", "title": "Sino-Vietnamese War", "text": "Sino-Vietnamese War\n\nThe Sino-Vietnamese War (; ), also known as the Third Indochina War, was a brief border war fought between the People's Republic of China and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in early 1979. China launched an offensive in response to Vietnam's invasion and occupation of Cambodia in 1978 (which ended the rule of the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge).\n\nChinese forces entered northern Vietnam and captured several cities near the border. On March 6, 1979, China declared that the gate to Hanoi was open and that their punitive mission had been achieved. Chinese troops then withdrew from Vietnam. Both China and Vietnam claimed victory in the last of the Indochina Wars. As Vietnamese troops remained in Cambodia until 1989, one can say that China remained unsuccessful in its goal of dissuading Vietnam from involvement in Cambodia. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, the Sino-Vietnamese border was finalized.\n\nAlthough unable to deter Vietnam from Cambodia, China succeeded in demonstrating that its Cold War communist adversary, the Soviet Union, was unable to protect its Vietnamese ally.\nFollowing worsening relations between the Soviet Union and China as a result of the Sino-Soviet split of 1956-1966, as many as 1.5 million Chinese troops were stationed along the Sino-Soviet border in preparation for a full-scale war against the Soviets.\n\nThe Sino-Vietnamese War () is also known as the Third Indochina War, in order to distinguish it from the First Indochina War, and the Vietnam War, also known as the Second Indochina War. In Vietnam, the conflict is known as the \"War against Chinese expansionism\". (Vietnamese: \"Chiến tranh chống bành trướng Trung Hoa\"). In China, the war is referred to as the \"Defensive Counterattack against Vietnam\" ().\n\nJust as the First Indochina War—which emerged from the complex situation following World War II—and the Vietnam War both exploded from the unresolved aftermath of political relations, the Third Indochina War again followed the unresolved problems of the earlier wars.\n\nThe major allied victors of World War II, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union, all agreed that the area belonged to the French. As the French did not have the means to immediately retake Indochina, the major powers agreed that the British would take control and troops would occupy the south while Nationalist Chinese forces would move in from the north. Nationalist Chinese troops entered the country to disarm Japanese troops north of the 16th parallel on 14 September 1945. The parallel divided Indochina into Chinese and British controlled zones (See Timeline of World War II (1945).). The British landed in the south rearming the small body of interned French forces as well as parts of the surrendered Japanese forces to aid in retaking southern Vietnam, as there were not enough British troops immediately available.\n\nOn the urging of the Soviet Union, Ho Chi Minh initially attempted to negotiate with the French, who were slowly reestablishing their control across the area, although still under British control until hostilities had ceased. Once hostilities had ended the British handed over the territory to the French. In January 1946, the Viet Minh won elections across central and northern Vietnam. On 6 March 1946, Ho signed an agreement allowing French forces to replace Nationalist Chinese forces, in exchange for French recognition of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam as a \"free\" republic within the French Union, with the specifics of such recognition to be determined by future negotiation. British forces departed on 26 March 1946, leaving Vietnam in the control of the French. The French landed in Hanoi by March 1946 and in November of that year they ousted the Viet Minh from the city. Soon thereafter, the Viet Minh began a guerrilla war against the French Union forces, beginning the first Indochina War.\n\nVietnam first became a French colony when France invaded in 1858. By the 1880s, the French had expanded their sphere of influence in Southeast Asia to include all of Vietnam, and by 1893 both Laos and Cambodia had become French colonies as well. Rebellions against French colonial power were common up to World War I. The European war heightened revolutionary sentiment in Southeast Asia, and the independence-minded population rallied around revolutionaries such as Hồ Chí Minh and others, including royalists.\n\nPrior to their attack on Pearl Harbor, the Japanese occupied French Indochina, but left civil administration to the Vichy French administration. On 9 March 1945, fearing that the Vichy French were about to switch sides to support the Allies, the Japanese overthrew the Vichy administration and forces taking control of Indochina and establishing their own puppet administration, the Empire of Vietnam. The Japanese surrender in August 1945 created a power vacuum in Indochina, as the various political factions scrambled for control.\n\nThe events leading to the First Indochina War are subject to historical dispute. When the Viet Minh hastily sought to establish the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, the remaining French acquiesced while waiting for the return of French forces to the region. The Kuomintang supported French restoration, but Viet Minh efforts towards independence were helped by Chinese communists under the Soviet Union's power. The Soviet Union at first indirectly supported Vietnamese communists, but later directly supported Hồ Chí Minh. The Soviets nonetheless remained less supportive than China until after the Sino-Soviet split, during the time of Leonid Brezhnev when the Soviet Union became communist Vietnam's key ally.\n\nThe war itself involved numerous events that had major impacts throughout Indochina. Two major conferences were held to bring about a resolution. Finally, on July 20, 1954, the Geneva Conference resulted in a political settlement to reunite the country, signed with support from China, Russia, and Western European powers. While the Soviet Union played a constructive role in the agreement, it again was not as involved as China. The U.S. did not sign the agreement and swiftly moved to back South Vietnam.\n\nThe Chinese Communist Party and the Viet Minh had a long history. During the initial stages of the First Indochina War with France, the recently founded communist People's Republic of China continued the Russian mission to expand communism. Therefore, they aided the Viet Minh and became the connector between Soviets and the Vietminh. In early 1950, The Viet Minh fought independently from the 'Chinese Military Advisory Group' under Wei Guoqing. This was one of the reasons for China to cut the arms support for the Viet Minh.\n\nAfter the death of Joseph Stalin in March 1953, relations between the Soviet Union and China began to deteriorate. Mao Zedong believed the new Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev had made a serious error in his Secret Speech denouncing Stalin in February 1956, and criticized the Soviet Union's interpretation of Marxism–Leninism, in particular Khrushchev's support for peaceful co-existence and its interpretation. This led to increasingly hostile relations, and eventually the Sino-Soviet split. From here, Chinese communists played a decreasing role in helping their former allies because the Viet Minh did not support China against the Soviets.\n\nFollowing the death of Mao in September 1976, the overthrow of the Gang of Four and the ascent of Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leadership would revise its own positions to become compatible with market aspects, denounce the Cultural Revolution, and collaborate with the US against the Soviet Union.\n\nAs France withdrew from a provisionally divided Vietnam in late 1954, the United States increasingly stepped in to support the South Vietnamese leaders due to the Domino theory, which theorized that if one nation would turn to communism, the surrounding nations were likely to fall like dominoes and become communist as well. The Soviet Union and North Vietnam became important allies together due to the fact that if South Vietnam was successfully taken over by North Vietnam, then communism in the far east would find its strategic position bolstered. In the eyes of the People's Republic of China, the growing Soviet-Vietnamese relationship was a disturbing development; they feared an encirclement by the less-than-hospitable Soviet sphere of influence.\n\nThe United States and the Soviet Union could not agree on a plan for a proposed 1956 election meant to unify the partitioned Vietnam. Instead, the South held a separate election that was widely considered fraudulent, leading to continued internal conflict with communist factions led by the Viet Cong that intensified through the late 1950s. With supplies and support from the Soviet Union, North Vietnamese forces became directly involved in the ongoing guerrilla war by 1959 and openly invaded the South in 1964.\n\nThe United States played an ever-increasing role in supporting South Vietnam through the period. The U.S. had supported French forces in the First Indochina War, sent supplies and military advisers to South Vietnam throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, and eventually took over most of the fighting against both North Vietnam and the Viet Cong by the mid-1960s. By 1968, over 500,000 American troops were involved in the Vietnam War. Due to a lack of clear military success and facing increasingly strident opposition to the war in the U.S., American forces began a slow withdrawal in 1969 while attempting to bolster South Vietnam's military so that they could take over the fighting. In accordance with the Paris Peace Accords by 29 March 1973 all U.S. combat forces had left South Vietnam, however North Vietnamese combat forces were allowed to remain in place. North Vietnam attacked South Vietnam in early 1975 and South Vietnam fell on 30 April 1975.\n\nThe People's Republic of China started talks with the United States in the early 1970s, culminating in high level meetings with Henry Kissinger and later Richard Nixon. These meetings contributed to a re-orientation of Chinese foreign policy toward the United States. Meanwhile, the People's Republic of China also supported the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia.\n\nAlthough the Vietnamese Communists and the Khmer Rouge had previously cooperated, the relationship deteriorated when Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot came to power and established Democratic Kampuchea on 17 April 1975. Communist China, in the other hand, also supported the Maoist Khmer Rouge against Lon Nol's regime during the Cambodian Civil War and its subsequent take-over of Cambodia. China provided extensive political, logistical and military support for the Khmer Rouge during its rule. After numerous clashes along the border between Vietnam and Cambodia, and with encouragement from Khmer Rouge defectors fleeing a purge of the Eastern Zone, Vietnam invaded Cambodia on 25 December 1978. By 7 January 1979 Vietnamese forces had entered Phnom Penh and the Khmer Rouge leadership had fled to western Cambodia.\n\nChina supported the ethnic minority United Front for the Liberation of Oppressed Races against Vietnam during the FULRO insurgency against Vietnam.\n\nThe Vietnamese executed collaborators who worked for the Chinese, regardless of ethnicity.\n\nThe Chinese received a significant amount of defectors from the Thu Lao ethnic minority in Vietnam during the war. During the war China received as migrants the entire A Lù based population of the Phù Lá ethnic minority. China received so many defectors from the ethnic minorities in Vietnam that it raised shock among Vietnam which had to launch a new effort re-assert dominance over the ethnic minorities and classify them. Post Vietnam War, insurgency against Vietnam lasted among the indigenous Mon-Khmer and Malayo-Polynesians of the Central Highlands. Assistance was sought from China by the Hmong ethnic minority. The border was frequently crossed by Chinese, Lao, Kinh, Hmong, Yao, Nung, and Tai. The Laotian Hmong and FULRO were both supported against Vietnam by China and Thailand.\n\nChina, now under Deng Xiaoping, was starting the Chinese economic reform and opening trade with the West, in turn, growing increasingly defiant of the Soviet Union. On November 3, 1978, the Soviet Union and Vietnam signed a 25-year mutual defense treaty, which made Vietnam the \"linchpin\" in the Soviet Union's \"drive to contain China.\"\n\nOn January 1, 1979, Chinese Vice-premier Deng Xiaoping visited the United States for the first time and told American president Jimmy Carter: \"The little child is getting naughty, it's time he get spanked.\" (original Chinese words: 小朋友不听话，该打打屁股了。). On February 15, the first day that China could have officially announced the termination of the 1950 Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Alliance and Mutual Assistance, Deng Xiaoping declared that China planned to conduct a limited attack on Vietnam.\n\nThe reason cited for the attack was to support China's ally, the Khmer Rouge of Cambodia, in addition to the mistreatment of Vietnam's ethnic Chinese minority and the Vietnamese occupation of the Spratly Islands which were claimed by China. To prevent Soviet intervention on Vietnam's behalf, Deng warned Moscow the next day that China was prepared for a full-scale war against the Soviet Union; in preparation for this conflict, China put all of its troops along the Sino-Soviet border on an emergency war alert, set up a new military command in Xinjiang, and even evacuated an estimated 300,000 civilians from the Sino-Soviet border. In addition, the bulk of China's active forces (as many as one-and-a-half million troops) were stationed along China's border with the Soviet Union.\n\nAlthough the People's Liberation Army vastly outnumbered the Vietnamese forces, the Soviet-Vietnamese alliance compelled the Chinese to deploy the majority of their forces along China's northern frontier with the Soviet Union (as well as, to a lesser extent, Soviet-allied Mongolia) as a deterrent to Soviet intervention. \n\nThe Chinese force that engaged the Vietnamese consisted of units from the Kunming Military Region, Chengdu Military Region, Wuhan Military Region and Guangzhou Military Region, but commanded by the headquarters of Kunming Military Region on the western front and Guangzhou Military Region in the eastern front.\n\nSome troops engaged in this war, especially engineering units, railway corps, logistical units and antiaircraft units, had been assigned to assist North Vietnam in its war against South Vietnam just a few years earlier during the Vietnam War. Contrary to the belief that over 600,000 Chinese troops entered North Vietnam, the actual number was only 200,000, while 600,000 Chinese troops were mobilized, of which 400,000 were deployed away from their original bases during the one-month conflict.\n\nThe Chinese troop deployments were observed by U.S. spy satellites. In his state visit to the U.S. in 1979, the Chinese paramount leader Deng Xiaoping was presented with this information and asked to confirm the numbers. He replied that the information was completely accurate. After this public confirmation in the U.S., the domestic Chinese media were finally allowed to report on these deployments.\n\n\nThe Vietnamese government claimed they only had a force of about 70,000 including several army regular divisions in its northern area. However, the Chinese estimates indicate more than twice this number. Some Vietnamese forces used American military equipment captured during the Vietnam War.\n\n1st Military Region: commanded by Major General Dam Quang Trung, responsible for the defense at Northeast region.\n\n2nd Military Region: commanded by Major General Vu Lap, responsible for the defense at Northwest region.\n\n\nIn addition, Vietnamese forces were supported by about 50,000 militia at each Military Region\n\nAir force\n\nThe Vietnam People's Air Force did not participate in the combat directly, instead they provided support to the ground troops, transported troops from Cambodia to northern Vietnam as well as performed reconnaissance purposes.\n\nAir Defence\n\nAccording to Vietnam, since January 1979 Chinese forces performed numerous reconnaissance activities across the border and made 230 violations into Vietnamese land. To prepare for a possible Chinese invasion, the Central Military Committee of the Communist Party ordered all armed forces across the border to be on stand-by mode.\n\nOn 17 February 1979, a People's Liberation Army (PLA) force of about 200,000 troops supported by 200 Type 59, Type 62, and Type 63 tanks entered northern Vietnam in the PLA's first major combat operation since the end of the Korean War in 1953.\n\nThe PLA invasion was conducted in two directions: western and eastern\n\nVietnam quickly mobilized all its main forces in Cambodia, southern Vietnam and central Vietnam to the northern border. From 18 February to 25 February, the 327th Infantry Division of Military District 3 and the 337th Infantry Division of Military District 4 were deployed to join Military District 1 for the defense of northwestern region. From 6 March to 11 March the Second Corp (Huong Giang Corp) stationed in Cambodia was deployed back to Hanoi.\n\nThe 372nd Air Division in central Vietnam as well as the 917th, 935th and 937th Air Regiments in southern Vietnam were quickly deployed to the north.\n\nThe Soviet Union, although it did not take direct military action, provided intelligence and equipment support for Vietnam. A large airlift was established by the Soviet Union to move Vietnamese troops from Cambodia to Northern Vietnam. Moscow also provided a total of 400 tanks and armored personnel carriers (APCs), 500 mortar artillery and air defense artillery, 50 BM-21 rocket launchers, 400 portable surface-to-air missiles, 800 anti-tank missiles and 20 jet fighters. About 5,000 to 8,000 Soviet military advisers were present in Vietnam from August 1979 to mid-1979 to train Vietnamese soldiers.\n\nDuring the Sino-Vietnamese War, the Soviet Union deployed troops at the Sino-Soviet border and Mongolian-Chinese border as an act of showing support to Vietnam, as well as tying up Chinese troops. However, the Soviets refused to take any direct action to defend their ally.\n\nThe Soviet Pacific Fleet also deployed 15 ships to the Vietnamese coast to relay Chinese battlefield communications to Vietnamese forces.\n\nThe PLA quickly advanced about 15–20 kilometres into Vietnam, with fighting mainly occurring in the provinces of Cao Bằng, Lào Cai and Lạng Sơn. The Vietnamese avoided mobilizing their regular divisions, and held back some 300,000 troops for the defence of Hanoi. The People's Army of Vietnam (VPA) tried to avoid direct combat and often used guerrilla tactics.\n\nThe initial PLA attack soon lost its momentum and a new attack wave was sent in with eight PLA divisions joining the battle. After capturing the northern heights above Lạng Sơn, the PLA surrounded and paused in front of the city in order to lure the VPA into reinforcing it with units from Cambodia. This was the main strategic ploy in the Chinese war plan as Deng did not want to risk escalating tensions with the Soviet Union.\nOnce this became clear to the PLA, the war was practically over. After three days of bloody house-to-house fighting, Lạng Sơn fell on 6 March. The PLA then took the southern heights above Lạng Sơn and occupied Sa Pa. The PLA claimed to have crushed several of the VPA regular units.\n\nOn 6 March, China declared that the gate to Hanoi was open and that their punitive mission had been achieved. On the way back to the Chinese border, the PLA destroyed all local infrastructure and housing and looted all useful equipment and resources (including livestock), severely weakening the economy of Vietnam's northernmost provinces. The PLA crossed the border back into China on 16 March. Both sides declared victory with China claiming to have crushed the Vietnamese resistance and Vietnam claiming to have repelled the invasion using mostly border militias. Henry J. Kenny, a research scientist for US Center for Naval Analyses, notes that most Western writers agree that Vietnam outperformed the PLA on the battlefield.\n\nIn response to China's attack, the Soviet Union sent several naval vessels and initiated an arms airlift to Vietnam. However, the Soviet Union felt that there was simply no way that they could directly support Vietnam against China; the distances were too great to be an effective ally, and any sort of reinforcements would have to cross territory controlled by China or U.S. allies. The only realistic option would be to restart the unresolved border conflict with China. Vietnam was important to Soviet policy but not enough for the Soviets to go to war over. When Moscow did not intervene, Beijing publicly proclaimed that the Soviet Union had broken its numerous promises to assist Vietnam.\n\nAnother reason why Moscow did not intervene was because Beijing had promised both Moscow and Washington that the invasion was only a limited war, and that Chinese forces would withdraw after a short incursion. After moderation by the U.S., Moscow decided to adopt a \"wait and see\" approach to see if Beijing would actually limit their offense. Deng Xiaoping, because Vietnam's anti-air capabilities were among the best in the world at the time and in order to reassure Moscow it was conducting a limited war, ordered the Chinese navy and air force to remain out of the war; only limited support was provided by the air force. When Beijing kept its promise, Moscow did not retaliate.\n\nChina and Vietnam each lost thousands of troops, and China lost 3.45 billion yuan in overhead, which delayed completion of their 1979–80 economic plan. Following the war, the Vietnamese leadership took various repressive measures to deal with the problem of real or potential collaboration. In the spring of 1979, the authorities expelled approx. 8,000 Hoa people from Hanoi to the southern \"New Economic Zones,\" and partially resettled the Hmong tribes and other ethnic minorities from the northernmost provinces. In response to the defection of Hoàng Văn Hoan, a purge was launched to cleanse the Communist Party of Vietnam of pro-Chinese elements and persons who had surrendered to the advancing Chinese troops during the war. In 1979, a total of 20,468 members were expelled from the party. Although Vietnam continued to occupy Cambodia, China successfully mobilized international opposition to the occupation, rallying such leaders as Cambodia's deposed king Norodom Sihanouk, Cambodian anticommunist leader Son Sann, and high-ranking members of the Khmer Rouge to deny the pro-Vietnamese Cambodian People's Party in Cambodia diplomatic recognition beyond the Soviet bloc. China improved relations with ASEAN by promising protection to Thailand and Singapore against \"Vietnamese aggression\". In contrast, Vietnam's decreasing prestige in the region led it to be more dependent on the Soviet Union, to which it leased a naval base at Cam Ranh Bay. On 1 March 2005, Howard W. French wrote in \"The New York Times\": Some historians stated that \"the war was started by Mr Deng (China's then paramount leader Deng Xiaoping) to keep the army preoccupied while he consolidated power... \"\n\nThe number of casualties during the war is disputed. Vietnamese sources claimed the PLA had suffered 62,500 total casualties, including 550 military vehicles, and 115 artillery pieces destroyed; while Chinese democracy activist Wei Jingsheng told western media in 1980 that the Chinese troops had suffered 9,000 dead and about 10,000 wounded during the war. Leaks from Chinese military sources indicate that China suffered 6,954 dead.\n\nLike their Chinese counterparts, the Vietnamese government has never officially announced any information on its actual military casualties. China estimated that Vietnam lost 57,000 soldiers and 70,000 militia members during the war. The official Nhân Dân newspaper claimed that Vietnam suffered more than 10,000 civilian deaths during the Chinese invasion and earlier on 17 May 1979, reported statistics on heavy losses of industry and agricultural properties.\n\nThe Chinese held 1,636 Vietnamese prisoners and the Vietnamese held 238 Chinese prisoners; they were exchanged in May–June 1979.\n\nThe 238 Chinese soldiers surrendered after getting separated from their main unit during the withdrawal from Vietnam and became surrounded by Vietnamese. After surrendering, they were transferred by the Vietnamese soldiers to a prison. The Chinese prisoners reported that they were subjected to torturous and inhumane treatment, such as being blindfolded and having their bodies bound and restrained with metal wire.\n\nBorder skirmishes continued throughout the 1980s, including a significant skirmish in April 1984 and a naval battle over the Spratly Islands in 1988 known as the Johnson South Reef Skirmish.\n\nArmed conflict only ended in 1989 after the Vietnamese agreed to fully withdraw from Cambodia. Both nations planned the normalization of their relations in a secret summit in Chengdu in September 1990, and officially normalized ties in November 1991.\n\nIn 1999, after many years of negotiations, China and Vietnam signed a border pact. There was an adjustment of the land border, resulting in Vietnam giving China part of its land which was lost during the battle, including the Ai Nam Quan Gate which served as the traditional border marker and entry point between Vietnam and China, which caused widespread frustration within Vietnam. Vietnam's official news service reported the implementation of the new border around August 2001. In January 2009 the border demarcation was officially completed, signed by Deputy Foreign Minister Vu Dung on the Vietnamese side and his Chinese counterpart, Wu Dawei, on the Chinese side. Both the Paracel (called Hoàng Sa in Vietnam, Xīshā in China) and Spratly (Trường Sa in Vietnam, Nansha in China) islands remain a point of contention.\nThe December 2007 announcement of a plan to build a Hanoi-Kunming highway was a landmark in Sino-Vietnamese relations. The road will traverse the border that once served as a battleground. It should contribute to demilitarizing the border region, as well as facilitating trade and industrial cooperation between the nations.\n\nThere are a number of Chinese songs, movies and T.V. programs depicting and discussing this conflict from the Chinese viewpoint. These vary from the patriotic song \"Bloodstained Glory\" originally written to laud the sacrifice and service of the Chinese military, to the 1986 film \"The Big Parade\" which carried veiled criticism of the war. The male protagonist of the television series \"Candle in the Tomb\" was a veteran of conflict. The 2017 Chinese movie Youth covers the period of the Sino-Vietnamese conflict from the perspective of the larger cultural changes taking place in China during that period of time.\n\nThe war was mentioned in the film \"Đất mẹ\" (\"Motherland\") directed by Hải Ninh in 1980 and \"Thị xã trong tầm tay\" (\"Town at the Fingertips\") directed by Đặng Nhật Minh in 1982. Besides in 1982, a documentary film called \"Hoa đưa hương nơi đất anh nằm\" (\"Flowers over Your Grave\") was directed by Truong Thanh, the film told a story of a Japanese journalist who died during the war.\nDuring the war, there were numerous patriotic songs produced to boost the nationalism of Vietnamese people, including \"Chiến đấu vì độc lập tự do\" (\"Fight for Independence and Freedom\") composed by Phạm Tuyên, \"Lời tạm biệt lúc lên đường\" (\"Farewell When Leaving\") by Vu Trong Hoi, \"40 thế kỷ cùng ra trận\" (\"40 Centuries We Fought Side By Side\") by Hong Dang, \"Những đôi mắt mang hình viên đạn\" (\"The Angry Gaze\") by Tran Tien and \"Hát về anh\" (Sing for you) by The Hien.\nThe Sino-Vietnamese War also appeared in some novels such as: \"Đêm tháng Hai\" (\"Night of February\") written by Chu Lai in 1979 and \"Chân dung người hàng xóm\" (\"Portrait of My Neighbors\") written by Duong Thu Huong in 1979.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5228879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5228879", "title": "Sumbat Davitis Dze", "text": "Sumbat Davitis Dze\n\nSumbat Davitis Dze (), or Sumbat, son of David, in modern English transliteration, was the 11th-century Georgian chronicler who described in his \"The Life and Tale of the Bagratids\" the history of the Bagrationi dynasty of Georgia from the beginnings until c. 1030. The Georgian scholar Ekvtime Takaishvili has demonstrated that Sumbat belonged to that dynasty. The author is notable for his articulation of the Bagratid claim to be descended from the biblical King-Prophet David.\n\n"}
{"id": "42755982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42755982", "title": "Tachhala (month)", "text": "Tachhala (month)\n\nTachhalā (Nepal Bhasa: तछला) is the eighth month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month coincides with Jyeshtha (ज्येष्ठ) in the Hindu lunar calendar and June in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nTachhalā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Tachhalā Thwa (तछला थ्व) and Tachhalā Gā (तछला गा) respectively.\n\nAmong the major festivals observed during the month, the 6th day of the bright fortnight is Sithi Nakha which is dedicated to Kumar Kartikeya, one of the two sons of Hindu deity Shiva. The special food of the festival is \"wo\", a lentil cake. The holiday has an environmental aspect apart from its religious significance. On this day, water sources like wells, ponds and fountains are cleaned.\n\nThe full moon day of Gaidu Purnimā, known as Jyā Punhi in Nepal Bhasa, is a widely celebrated holiday. For Buddhists, Jya Punhi is sacred as the day when Prince Siddhartha, the Buddha-to-be, left his home in search of enlightenment.\n\nThe full moon day is also known as Panauti Punhi for the festival that takes place in Panauti, a town to the east of Kathmandu. During Panauti Jātrā, chariot processions of the deities Bhairava and Bhadrakali are held in the most important celebration here.\n\nOn the 8th day of the dark fortnight, the festival of Machā Tiyā Jātrā or Trishul Jātrā (\"The Procession with the Trident\") is held in Deopatan in Kathmandu.\n"}
{"id": "35130479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35130479", "title": "The Lemberg Mosaic", "text": "The Lemberg Mosaic\n\nThe Lemberg Mosaic, subtitled the \"Memoirs of Two who Survived the Destruction of Jewish Galicia,\" is a book on the Holocaust by Jakob Weiss. This work brings to light the relatively obscure history of the systematic and total destruction of Jewish Lemberg (Lwów, now Lviv in Ukraine). It is presented in the format of a biography, detailing the struggle for survival of four families in the backdrop of two back-to-back invasions of the city and surrounding region by both the Soviets (1939) and the Germans (1941).\n\nBefore the Second World War Lviv was known as Lwów. After the Treaty of Versailles and the rebirth of modern Poland (the Second Polish Republic), Lwów (formerly, Lemberg) became the third largest city in Poland with the third largest Jewish population (after Warsaw and Lódz). Some sources call the destruction of this once vibrant Jewish community the \"Holocaust by Bullets,\" or the \"Shoah of Jewish Galicia\" or the \"Ukrainian Holocaust.\" Recent forensic evidence as uncovered and analyzed by researchers like the French priest, Father Patrick Desbois, has coroborated the testimony of both survivors and eyewitnesses that well over one million and perhaps as many as 1.5 million Jews were brutally murdered in World War II during the Nazi invasion of the eastern-most region of Poland, also known as Galicia, today's West Ukraine.\n\nThe book's Afterword was penned by Dr. Berthold Zarwyn himself a native of the city and survivor of the Lemberg ghetto. In it, he details his own eyewitness account of what transpired during the Nazi invasion, including participation of the Ukrainian militia, the Ukrainian Auxiliary Police and the local populace in the atrocities - primarily targeting the Jews in the city and the surrounding region of eastern Galicia (District of Galicia). In his comments, a cross reference is made by Dr. Zarwyn to a specific Ukrainian auxiliary police officer, John Kalymon who was stripped of his United States citizenship for falsifying his role as a guard in the Lemberg Ghetto. Dr. Zarwyn has made a significant contribution to the continuing efforts to bring former Nazi collaborators to justice such as Kalymon who is currently the subject of a criminal prosection by a Munich tribunal as Operation Last Chance continues. The Munich prosecution of Kalymon is now before same court (led by the same prosecutor) that tried and convicted the infamous John Demjanjuk as an accessory to the murder of 27,900 Jews.\n"}
{"id": "6690453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6690453", "title": "Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War (July)", "text": "Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War (July)\n\nThis is a timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War during the month of July.\n"}
{"id": "26999563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26999563", "title": "Timeline of the University of Wisconsin–Parkside", "text": "Timeline of the University of Wisconsin–Parkside\n\nTimeline of Notable Events University of Wisconsin–Parkside's first half century include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18911064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18911064", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 369", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 369\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 369, adopted on May 28, 1975, expressed concern over the prevailing state of tensions between Israel and Syria and reaffirmed that the two previous agreements on disengagements of forces were only a step towards the implementation of resolution 338. The resolution then decided to call upon the parties concerned to immediately implement resolution 338, renewed the mandate of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force for another 6 months and requested the Secretary-General submit a report on the situation at the end of those 6 months.\n\nThe resolution was adopted by 13 votes; China and Iraq did not participate in the vote.\n\n\n"}
