{"id": "36686332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36686332", "title": "Aban bin Uthman bin Affan", "text": "Aban bin Uthman bin Affan\n\nAban bin Uthman bin Affan (died 105 A.H / 723 CE) was a Muhaddith, Faqīh, Mufassir, and Muslim historian.\n\nAbaan bin Uthman bin Affan was the son of Uthman ibn Affan, the third Islamic caliph. His mother was Umm'Amr bint Jandab. He was the first historian to write the Maghazi of Muhammad. He was also a Scholar of Ahadith and Fiqh.\n\nBook 43, Number 5069: , \nNarrated Uthman ibn Affan:\n\nAban ibn Uthman said: I heard Uthman ibn Affan (his father) say: I heard the Apostle of Allah (peace_be_upon_him) say: If anyone says three times: \"In the name of Allah, when Whose name is mentioned nothing on Earth or in Heaven can cause harm, and He is the Hearer, the Knower\" he will not suffer sudden affliction till the morning, and if anyone says this in the morning, he will not suffer sudden affliction till the evening.\n\nAban was afflicted by some paralysis and when a man who heard the tradition began to look at him, he said to him: Why are you looking at me? I swear by Allah, I did not tell a lie about Uthman, nor did Uthman tell a lie about the Prophet (peace_be_upon_him), but that day when I was afflicted by it, I became angry and forgot to say them.\n"}
{"id": "11260753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11260753", "title": "Abda of Edessa", "text": "Abda of Edessa\n\nAbda of Edessa was a bishop of Edessa in the Church of the East. He is commemorated as a saint by that church with a feast day of February 16.\n\nHolweck, F. G. \"A Biographical Dictionary of the Saints\". St. Louis, MO: B. Herder Book Co., 1924.\n"}
{"id": "17356800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17356800", "title": "Acid–base imbalance", "text": "Acid–base imbalance\n\nAcid–base imbalance is an abnormality of the human body's normal balance of acids and bases that causes the plasma pH to deviate out of the normal range (7.35 to 7.45). In the fetus, the normal range differs based on which umbilical vessel is sampled (umbilical vein pH is normally 7.25 to 7.45; umbilical artery pH is normally 7.18 to 7.38). It can exist in varying levels of severity, some life-threatening.\n\nAn excess of acid is called acidosis or acidemia and an excess in bases is called alkalosis or alkalemia. The process that causes the imbalance is classified based on the cause of the disturbance (respiratory or metabolic) and the direction of change in pH (acidosis or alkalosis). This yields the following four basic processes:\nThe presence of only one of the above derangements is called a \"simple\" acid–base disorder. In a \"mixed\" disorder more than one is occurring at the same time. Mixed disorders may feature an acidosis and alkosis at the same time that partially counteract each other, or there can be two different conditions affecting the pH in the same direction. The phrase \"mixed acidosis\", for example, refers to metabolic acidosis in conjunction with respiratory acidosis. Any combination is possible, as metabolic acidosis and alkalosis can co exist together.\n\nThe traditional approach to the study of acid–base physiology has been the empirical approach. The main variants are the base excess approach and the bicarbonate approach. The quantitative approach introduced by Peter A Stewart in 1978 is newer.\n\nThere are numerous reasons that each of the four processes can occur (detailed in each article). Generally speaking, sources of acid gain include:\n\nSources of acid loss include:\n\nThe body's acid–base balance is tightly regulated. Several buffering agents exist which reversibly bind hydrogen ions and impede any change in pH. Extracellular buffers include bicarbonate and ammonia, while proteins and phosphate act as intracellular buffers. The bicarbonate buffering system is especially key, as carbon dioxide (CO) can be shifted through carbonic acid (HCO) to hydrogen ions and bicarbonate (HCO) as shown below.\n\nAcid–base imbalances that overcome the buffer system can be compensated in the short term by changing the rate of ventilation. This alters the concentration of carbon dioxide in the blood, shifting the above reaction according to Le Chatelier's principle, which in turn alters the pH. For instance, if the blood pH drops too low (\"acidemia\"), the body will compensate by increasing breathing, expelling CO, and shifting the reaction above to the right such that fewer hydrogen ions are free – thus the pH will rise back to normal. For \"alkalemia\", the opposite occurs.\n\nThe kidneys are slower to compensate, but renal physiology has several powerful mechanisms to control pH by the excretion of excess acid or base. In responses to acidosis, tubular cells reabsorb more bicarbonate from the tubular fluid, collecting duct cells secrete more hydrogen and generate more bicarbonate, and ammoniagenesis leads to increased formation of the NH buffer. In responses to alkalosis, the kidney may excrete more bicarbonate by decreasing hydrogen ion secretion from the tubular epithelial cells, and lowering rates of glutamine metabolism and ammonia excretion.\n\n"}
{"id": "58441212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58441212", "title": "Ali Irsan", "text": "Ali Irsan\n\nAli Mahmood Awad Irsan (; born December 27, 1957) is a convicted murderer held on Texas death row. Originating from Jordan and a naturalized U.S. citizen, he was sentenced for the murders of his son-in-law, Coty Beavers, and Gelareh Bagherzadeh (), a friend of one of his daughters, in Greater Houston.\n\nMultiple media reports described the crimes as honor killings.\n\nIrsan, using a student visa, came to the United States in 1979, and became a naturalized United States citizen. He lived on a property in a rural area, in unincorporated eastern Montgomery County, Texas, near Conroe. Craig Malisow of the \"Houston Press\" stated that Irsan \"considered himself to be a devout Muslim.\" Irsan studied in a \"medical laboratory\" program Kirkwood Community College, receiving his degree in 1978. He stated in court filings that he studied in a medical program at a tertiary institution in Jordan, and he also stated that he had a Houston Community College \"diploma of auto -mechanic\".\n\nIrsan, then 22, married his first wife when she was 17. Robin Dahl first met in 1979 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa while he studied in community college and she worked on her GED. They married circa 1980, and moved to the Houston area by 1984. The couple had four children, with their first being born in 1981. In 1994 Irsan divorced his first wife.\n\nWhen Irsan was 35, he traveled to Jordan and entered into an arranged marriage with a girl Shmou Ali Alrawabdeh (), who was approximately 15 or 16. The first wife left the house shortly after Irsan married the second wife. Alrawabdeh, a Jordanian national, arrived in the U.S. circa 1995. In federal court Irsan stated that he married her in Jordan but that he did not legally marry her in the United States. Alrawabdeh had eight children with him while they lived in the United States; including the children from the other wife, the total fathered by Irsan is 12. She naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 2001.\n\nIn 1999 Irsan killed Amjad Hussein Alidam (), the husband of Irsan's daughter Nasemah Rachelle Irsan (), Irsan's eldest daughter, at Irsan's residence. Alidam was an Iraqi immigrant to the U.S. and a Shia Muslim. Irsan stated that he did the killing in self-defense. Irsan never received criminal charges in that case, as area law enforcement believed him to be innocent. A Montgomery County grand jury no billed possible charges against Irsan. Nasemah was sent back to Jordan.\n\nTwo of Irsan's daughters, Nadia (), and Nesreen (), were children of the previous wife. Nadia is a U.S. citizen, and the family previously educated them through homeschooling. They enrolled in a biology program at Lone Star College-Montgomery. A professor at Lone Star who taught the women stated that, as paraphrased by Malislow in a \"Houston Press\" article, Nadia and Nesreen \"fought hard to convince their father to let them enroll\". In 2010, the younger of the two, Nesreen, met Beavers and his twin brother, Cory, there. Beavers was a Christian, while the girls came from a Muslim family. At the time both wore hijab.\n\nThe two women and Cory Beavers were admitted to University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center's molecular genetics program, where Nesreen met Bagherzadeh, an Iranian. Bagherzadeh, a medical student and medical researcher, had molecular genetics as her area of study. She was born in France and was from Tehran. She studied biology in Tehran and later attended university in Budapest, Hungary, before moving to Houston in 2007 to join her parents, who bought a house near Uptown Houston (the area around the Houston Galleria) so she could live there; this residence was within the Woodway Point townhomes, and an area street would become the site of her death. Nesreen introduced Cory Beavers to Bagherzadeh.\n\nBagherzadeh publicly protested in favor of women's rights on numerous occasions and criticized the Iranian government. She participated in the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests that were held in Houston and also protested against the Al-Hadi Mosque, which she accused of being connected to the Iranian government. Lomi Kriel of the \"Houston Chronicle\" wrote that \"she was outspokenly critical of Islam, even becoming embroiled in an argument with her father's bosses about their faith.\" She was a member of Second Baptist Church, as she had converted to Christianity in 2011. When Nesreen chose to leave Islam and become a Christian, Bagherzadeh gave her support, and Bagherzadeh also suggested that Nesreen marry Beavers.\n\nNesreen and Coty Beavers became romantically involved in secret. Brian Rogers of the \"Houston Chronicle\" stated that Nadia felt jealousy over the relationship; Irsan told his daughters that they were not allowed to date. According to court testimony, Irsan threatened the girls with death if they engaged in romantic relationships, and also stated he would kill the boyfriends in that case. According to Texas prosecutors, Nadia wished to be in a relationship with Cory Beavers, but he declined. The relationship between Nesreen and Nadia deteriorated.\n\nIrsan learned about Nesreen's relationship to Beavers while he was in Jordan. In June 2011 Alrawabdeh held her against her will at Irsan's residence; Nesreen accused Nadia of also holding her against her will. The persons/people holding her captive had discovered e-mails, text messages, and voice mails sent to and from Coty Beavers on Nesreen's communication device. She escaped through a window and went to be with Beavers at his residence, then his mother's house in Spring. In November 2011 Cory Beavers and Bagherzadeh became boyfriend and girlfriend.\n\nNesreen stated she was afraid that her father would harm her. Her father and other members of the family looked for her and sent messages to Bagherzadeh, who refused to divulge the information. He remained unaware of the location of her residence. Beginning around fall 2011, Irsan harassed Nesreen, Coty Beavers, and Bagherzadeh, and the group experienced acts of vandalism against their property. Nesreen, who was 23 at the time, got a protective order that banned her father from contacting her, but he continued to look for her. For those reasons she chose not to attend the graduation ceremony for her class.\n\nCirca July 2012, Nesreen married Coty Beavers, taking the name Nesreen Irsan Beavers, and only holding a civil ceremony to avoid getting unwanted attention, doing so at the Harris County Courthouse. The two moved to a new residence a significant distance away from their previous one; they were at the Legacy Park Apartments in unincorporated northwest Harris County, which would become the site of Beavers's death. Nesreen and Beavers chose a gated apartment complex specifically for their protection, and they rented a third-floor unit to minimize their possibility of being attacked. Whenever Nesreen left the apartment to travel to and from work, Beavers escorted her to protect her.\n\nNesreen told authorities that Irsan had committed fraud related to Social Security. The family received money from the Social Security Administration (SSA), called Supplemental Security Income (SSI), for people who are unable to work and do not have resources, but Irsan and his family concealed their resources even though he told the government that beginning in 1990 he was unable to find work. Irsan held his money in multiple bank accounts, with some under the names of his children while having de facto control over them, while also claiming benefits and hiding the true amount of money he controlled. He also possessed multiple false credit cards, some under false names and some in the names of family members. The criminal schemes began in 1995. Agencies investigating included multiple agencies in the federal, state, and local levels, among them the FBI, SSA, the Office of Inspector General (OIG), Homeland Security Investigations, and the Montgomery County Sheriff's Office.\n\nA group of police, with the FBI leading, arrested Irsan, Alrawabdeh, and Nadia on May 22, 2014, accusing them of offenses related to fraud perpetrated against the social security system. Irsan was held in the Joe Corley Detention Facility/Joe Corley Processing Center, a private correctional facility in Conroe, Texas, operated by the GEO Group which, in addition to housing immigration prisoners, acts as a detention center for the U.S. Marshals Service. All three suspects were also held at Federal Detention Center, Houston in Downtown Houston. Federal authorities did not allow him to post bond; Alrawabdeh and Nadia were also held. Six of Irsan's children who were still minors were put in the custody of child protective services (CPS).\n\nThe prosecuting federal attorneys were Jim McAlister and Mark McIntyre. Lawyer John Floyd represented Irsan in regard to his federal prosecution. The FBI raided the house another time on June 5, 2014. Irsan was initially charged with conspiracy to benefits fraud in a continuing scheme, defraud the United States, and theft of public money over $1,000.\n\nOn April 3, 2015, Irsan pleaded guilty, to \"conspiracy to defraud the United States\", while and Alrawabdeh and Nadia were convicted of \"making false statements\". All were sentenced to serve time in the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Irsan received a federal sentence of 45 months and a fine of $290,651 from Judge Lynn Hughes. Alrawabdeh and Nadia each received 24 months.\n\nThe arrests and prosecutions were not covered in the Jordanian news media.\n\nBagherzadeh was murdered while in her father's car, outside of her parents' residence on January 15, 2012. Bagherzadeh was 30 at the time of her death. The triggerperson, using a .380 handgun, shot Bagherzadeh through Alrawabdeh's passenger side window, hitting Bagherzadeh in the head with one bullet that went through the passenger side window of the car she drove. Alrawabdeh stated that Nasim Irsan (), Irsan's son, was the triggerperson.\n\nBagherzadeh was driving from the residence of her boyfriend Cory Beavers to her parents' residence, while talking on the telephone with a former boyfriend. Up to three other bullets were fired at her car. Her car hit a townhouse's garage, and police found her body around 12:30 PM; a shooting had been first reported around 11:45 PM. Prosecutors stated that Irsan; Alrawabdeh; and Nasim Irsan, Irsan's son and Nesreen's brother, were together in a car. At 12:30 A.M. Texas Department of Public Safety (DPS) officer stopped the car going 79 miles per hour, above the speed limit, on Interstate 45, while it was going back to Montgomery County. Irsan was given a warning and allowed to leave after he stated he was trying to get a drink to deal with a diabetic condition. Initially no leads were announced, and Crime Stoppers stated that there was a $250,000 reward for information that could solve the case. Craig Malisow of the \"Houston Press\" described the award as \"record-high\". This became the highest reward in U.S. Crimestoppers history. Shortly after the killings, Bagherzadeh's allies and friends believed that the Iranian government had Bagherzadeh assassinated.\n\nCoty Beavers was murdered at his residence at the Legacy Park apartments, on November 12, 2012. According to Alrawabdeh, Irsan personally shot Beavers. He had entered the apartment while it was unlocked and stayed inside while Beavers was with Nesreen; Beavers went with her to her car, before she drove away to her workplace, around 5:45 A.M. Irsan shot him after Beavers re-entered the house. Irsan was in hiding inside a bedroom before he killed his victim, 28 at the time of his death. Alwarabdeh was also present at Beavers's murder. Nesreen found Beavers's body, at about 4:30 P.M.\n\nTwo days prior to the killing, according to the Harris County Sheriff's Office (HCSO), a suspect asked people in Legacy Park for the whereabouts of Beavers. Cory Beavers stated to the news channel KPRC that his brother \"said basically if I'm ever killed or murdered it was Ali Irsan. I mean he was that specific about it.\" Beavers's mother, Shirley McCormick, stated in Irsan's state trial that \"We knew who was responsible, but we didn’t know who all had helped him. I told [the police officers] it was Ali Irsan, and he also had to be the one who killed Gelareh.\"\n\nTexas authorities stated that Nesreen's conversion and marrying a Christian man motivated the father to commit the murders. In her court testimony, Alrawabdeh stated that Irsan planned to also kill Nesreen, Cory Beavers, and the Beavers twins' mother. She stated \"If a girl ran away from home, it would bring disgrace to the family.\" Stating that the difference in religion and the element of premarital sex would reflect poorly on Irsan, Alrawabdeh stated, \"I’m from an Arabic country and I’m aware of the culture. The family would kill her to clean their honor.\" According to prosecutors, Irsan wished to kill Nesreen's loved ones first to inflict emotional distress on her, before killing her at a later date. Devon Anderson, the Harris County district attorney in 2015, stated that Irsan \"believed that [Nesreen] and others, including the two victims, had violated his honor as a Muslim.\"\n\nOfficers of the Harris County Sheriff's Office (HCSO) searched Irsan's residence nine days after Beavers's death. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) conducted surveillance on the suspects. On the day Irsan was arrested for federal fraud charges, May 22, 2014, Harris County prosecutors announced that Irsan was also being charged for Bagherzadeh's murder. By March 2015 those charges were dismissed, but the Harris County authorities stated they would file additional charges. Harris County district attorney Anderson did not say why the initial charges were dropped with newer ones later filed; Michael Barajas of the \"Houston Press\" stated \"It appears that decision was purely strategic\". After prosecutors established the connection between the two killings, new capital murder charges against Irsan were filed on April 22, 2015, charging him for the murders of both Bagherzadeh and Beavers. According to Texas state law, capital murder can be filed if two killings are connected as part of the same scheme. Irsan's lawyers stated that he had no connection to either murder and the circumstances of the murders were not known. They also stated that the murders of Bagherzadeh and Beavers were not connected.\n\nThe federal government continued to hold Irsan, Alrawabdeh, and Nadia while Harris County prosecutors announced new criminal charges in 2015. Nadia Irsan received charges accusing her of stalking her sister, a felony to the third degree; the maximum possible sentence, if conviction occurs, is 10 years. Prosecutors can file murder charges against her if they find she helped plan any murders, due to the rule of parties statutes. Nasim, charged with Bagherzadeh's murder, was arrested on April 22, 2015 and moved to the Harris County jail; he was 21 at the time. His bail was set to $500,000. Alwarabdeh also was charged with Bagherzadeh's murder, as she allowed the triggerperson to use her window to kill Bagherzadeh. By May 1, 2015, Nadia remained in federal incarceration while her father and stepmother were moved to the Harris County jail. In the courtroom, Irsan asked for the state to not notify the Jordanian government, citing that he was a citizen of the United States. Later in 2015 Nadia was moved to the Harris County Jail, and she was moved to house arrest in January 2017 with $250,000 bail. Texas State District Judge Jan Krocker marked Nadia's stalking trial for July 2017. In the meantime Krocker chose house arrest since Nadia had been accused of stalking.\n\nAfter state criminal charges were announced, an anonymous person stating to be one of the children of Irsan created a petition stating that \"racial prejudice and discrimination\" had victimized the family. While Montgomery County authorities stated they were re-investigating the 1999 death of Alidam, they would only file charges on the matter if new evidence is presented.\n\nIrsan's capital murder trial began on June 25, 2018. It was held at the Bob Casey Federal Courthouse in Downtown Houston. The normal venue for state felony cases, the Harris County Criminal Courthouse in Downtown, had sustained damage from Hurricane Harvey in 2017, and the post-storm restoration was not yet complete.\n\nThe prosecutors sought the death penalty against Irsan, making it the first death penalty prosecution in Houston in 2018, and also the first death penalty case during the tenure of Kim Ogg, the Harris County district attorney since January 1, 2017. Anna Emmons, Marie Primm, and Jon Stephenson were appointed special prosecutors, since Ogg's first assistant, prior to the beginning of the murder trial, represented a suspected co-conspirator in another case; Ogg recused. Allen Tanner and Rudy Duarte were attorneys appointed by the judge to represent Irsan, while Katherine Scardino was the attorney appointed for Alrawabdeh. Jan Krocker served as the state district judge.\n\nNesreen testified against her father, as did Cory Beavers, who lost his twin brother and girlfriend, and McCormick, who lost her son. Alrawabdeh entered into a plea deal that gave her a conviction of kidnapping instead of murder, and as part of the plea deal she testified against Irsan. Alrawabdeh was to be released with time served after the end of the trial. In addition Dahl testified against her first husband, and first daughter Nesemah testified against her father. Two younger sisters of Irsan flew from Jordan to the U.S. to testify in his favor. Two sons of Irsan also testified in favor of their father. Even though his lawyers asked him not to, Irsan testified in his own trial.\n\nIrsan was declared guilty on July 26, 2018. The jurors came to this conclusion after 35 minutes of deliberation.\n\nIn the punishment phase, which lasted two weeks, the jury deliberated between two possible outcomes for a capital murder conviction under Texas law: life without parole or the death penalty. Prosecutors presented a witness who accused Irsan of boasting about murdering Alidam without consequence in 1999. Nesreen testified that Irsan used severe corporal punishment, and that he praised the September 11, 2001 attacks and suicide bombings while living in the United States.\n\nOn Tuesday, August 14, 2018, Irsan received a death sentence. The jury held a deliberation for nine hours before reaching the sentence. Irsan went into the custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice (TDCJ) on August 20 of that year. Men sentenced to death under Texas law are normally held at the Polunsky Unit near Livingston, Texas.\n\nGovernor of Texas Greg Abbott wrote on Twitter that people who commit honor killings in Texas would be sentenced to death.\n\nBrian Rogers of the \"Houston Chronicle\" stated that experts considered the case to be unusual because usually only the offending woman is killed in an honor killing, and that the Irsan affair increased attention given to honor killings in the United States. Michael Creed, another brother of Coty Beavers, said \"You don’t have to be Muslim to be a victim of an honor crime. These are not infrequent events that happen in some random part of the world. They’re happening in America and they’re on the rise.\" Beavers's father, Dennis Beavers, also stated \"If we in this country are not careful, a tragedy like ours could happen to your family.\" Relatives of Coty Beavers and Bagherzadeh stated that they became more fearful after the murders, with Cory and another brother of Beavers having guns for protection.\n\nOn January 23, 2012 Bagherzadeh's funeral was held at Second Baptist Church. Her parents sold their Houston house and moved to Maryland, where their eldest son lived. Ebrahim Bagherzadeh, Bagherzadeh's father, stated that being in Houston reminds them of their daughter and makes them feel sad.\nThe Houston Crimestoppers Memorial in Midtown Houston has a memorial to Bagherzadeh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37394092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37394092", "title": "Ambrosios Pleianthidis", "text": "Ambrosios Pleianthidis\n\nAmbrosios Pleiathidis (, 1872–1922) also known as Ambrosios of Moschonisia was the Greek Orthodox metropolitan bishop of Moschonisia, in modern Turkey, from February to September 1922. He was executed by the Turkish Army at the end of the Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922).\n\nHe is commemorated by the Greek Orthodox Church as Hieromartyr () and his feast day is celebrated on the Sunday before the Exaltation of the Holy Cross each year (September 7–13).\n\nAmbrosios was born in Smyrna (modern Izmir), in the Aidin Vilayet of the Ottoman Empire, in 1872. He graduated from the Evangelical School of his home town at 1893. After his graduation Ambrosios became an archdeacon in the nearby metropolis of Heliopolis and Thyateira, based in Aydin. He continued his studies and in 1895 he attended the Theolodigal Academy of Kiev and then he became a priest in the Greek community of Feodosiya in Crimea. In 1910 Ambrosios returned to Smyrna, where he preached in the local metropolis, under metropolitan Chrysostomos.\n\nFrom 1919 Ambrosios is found on Cunda Island, part of a small island cluster off western Anatolian coast, which at that time was part of the Greek controlled Smyrna Occupation Zone. In February 19, 1922, he became metropolitan bishop of the newly created local metropolis of Moschonisia, based in Cunda. Following the developments of the Greco-Turkish War and the subsequent Greek defeat, the region his metropolis came under the Turkish Nationalist Army. Most of the local population did not follow the retreating Greek Army. On the other hand, the Turkish troops arrested the remaining civilian population and sent them to labor battalions in the interior of Anatolia, the majority of them were executed, in September 15, 1922. Among these people was Ambrosios, who was buried alive after being tortured.\n"}
{"id": "32817096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32817096", "title": "Anna de Amicis", "text": "Anna de Amicis\n\nAnna Lucia de Amicis (c. 1733–1816) was an Italian soprano. She debuted in J. C. Bach's \"Orione\" in London, and went on to sing as prima donna in Dublin, Innsbruck and Naples. In Innsbruck she sang the female title role in \"Romolo ed Ersilia\", the marriage celebration opera written by Johann Adolf Hasse for the marriage of Leopold of Habsburg and Spanish Infanta Maria Ludovica. For this role she gained a lot of reputation. She was a favourite of both Mozart and his father Leopold, and created the role of Giunia in \"Lucio Silla\" (Milan 1772).\n"}
{"id": "40767301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40767301", "title": "Being in the World", "text": "Being in the World\n\nBeing in the World is a 2010 documentary film directed by Tao Ruspoli. The film is based on Martin Heidegger's philosophy and is inspired by Hubert Dreyfus. It features a number of prominent philosophers.\n\nPhilosophers such as Hubert Dreyfus, Mark Wrathall, Sean Dorrance Kelly, Taylor Carman, John Haugeland, Iain Thomson, Charles Taylor and Albert Borgmann are featured in the film. \nOther people featured in the film include Ryan Cross, Leah Chase, Manuel Molina, Hiroshi Sakaguchi, Jumane Smith, Austin Peralta, Bob Teague, Lindsey Banner and Elizabeth Gilbert.\n\n"}
{"id": "42576177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42576177", "title": "BioMotiv", "text": "BioMotiv\n\nBioMotiv is an accelerator company associated with The Harrington Project, a $340 million initiative centered at University Hospitals of Cleveland. BioMotiv's mission is to accelerate breakthrough discoveries into medicines by advancing a portfolio of novel therapeutics in all disease areas and types of therapeutics. The BioMotiv model efficiently aligns capital and collaborations for the benefit of inventors, investors, and ultimately physicians and patients. Therapeutic opportunities are identified through relationships with The Harrington Discovery Institute, university and research institutions, disease foundations, and industry sources. Once opportunities are identified, BioMotiv oversees the development, funding, active management, and partnering of the therapeutic products.\n\nThe Harrington Project was launched as an effort to bridge varying aspects of the drug development sphere. In response to recent decline in the number of traditional, early-stage biotechnology venture capital firms, BioMotiv utilizes an asset-centric model to in-license, fund, and manage technologies in-house. Its goal is to address the \"valley of death\" between research, discovery, and early clinical-stage drug development. Projects are advanced by the management team through clinical proof-of-concept and then out-licensed via strategic alliances with pharmaceutical companies.\n\nThe company has raised over $146 million to date. Major investors include The Harrington Family, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Biogen, Arix Bioscience and Charles River Laboratories.\n\nBioMotiv is managed by an executive team, including:\n\n\nRon Harrington, BioMotiv's Board of Managers Chairman and The Harrington Project's lead visionary, led Edgepark Medical Supplies and after growing the business successfully, sold the company in 2011 to Goldman Sachs and Clayton, Dubilier & Rice (which renamed the company AssuraMed and sold it again in 2014 to Cardinal Health, Inc.).\n\nBioMotiv attracted Baiju Shah, former CEO of BioEnterprise, a non-profit aimed at boosting Cleveland's healthcare economy, to lead its efforts. Prior to founding BioEnterprise, Baiju worked at McKinsey & Company.\n\nTed Torphy, PhD, is BioMotiv's Chief Scientific Officer. Prior to BioMotiv, he served as Global Head of External Innovation & Business Models for Discovery Sciences, Vice President and Head of External Research and Early Development, and Corporate Vice President and Head of Johnson & Johnson's Corporate Office of Science & Technology.\n\nDavid C. U'Prichard, PhD is Chairman of the Advisory Board; he has served on a number of biotechnology boards, as a venture partner at several funds, and was Chairman of Research and Development at SmithKline Beecham.\n\nBioMotiv launched its first subsidiary company, Orca Pharmaceuticals, in 2013. Based in Oxford, England, it worked in collaboration with New York University Innovation Venture Fund to develop RAR-related orphan receptor gamma (RORy) inhibitors for treatments of psoriasis, ankylosing spondylitis and inflammatory bowel disease.\n\nToday, BioMotiv's subsidiary portfolio includes ten companies across five indication areas:\n\nA critical aspect of BioMotiv's model highlights the need for collaboration within the drug discovery and development sphere. Its strategic partners include leaders in the drug development and pharmaceutical industries, as well as disease foundations.\n\nIn September 2014, BioMotiv entered into its first strategic partnership with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company in the areas of Immunology & Inflammation and Cardio-metabolic Diseases.[22] Today, BioMotiv has four strategic partners:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37035243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37035243", "title": "Bobby Adamson", "text": "Bobby Adamson\n\nRobert 'Bobby' Adamson is a former Scottish footballer who played for Greenock Morton, Raith Rovers, St Mirren and Arbroath.\n"}
{"id": "9404689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9404689", "title": "Brain-reading", "text": "Brain-reading\n\nBrain-reading uses the responses of multiple voxels in the brain evoked by stimulus then detected by fMRI in order to decode the original stimulus. Brain reading studies differ in the type of decoding (i.e. classification, identification and reconstruction) employed, the target (i.e. decoding visual patterns, auditory patterns, cognitive states), and the decoding algorithms (linear classification, nonlinear classification, direct reconstruction, Bayesian reconstruction, etc.) employed.\n\nIn classification, a pattern of activity across multiple voxels is used to determine the particular class from which the stimulus was drawn. Many studies have classified visual stimuli, but this approach has also been used to classify cognitive states.\n\nIn reconstruction brain reading the aim is to create a literal picture of the image that was presented. Early studies used voxels from early visual cortex areas (V1, V2, and V3) to reconstruct geometric stimuli made up of flickering checkerboard patterns.\n\nMore recent studies used voxels from early and anterior visual cortex areas forward of them (visual areas V3A, V3B, V4, and the lateral occipital) together with Bayesian inference techniques to reconstruct complex natural images. This brain reading approach uses three components: A structural encoding model that characterizes responses in early visual areas; a semantic encoding model that characterizes responses in anterior visual areas; and a Bayesian prior that describes the distribution of structural and semantic scene statistics.\n\nExperimentally the procedure is for subjects to view 1750 black and white natural images that are correlated with voxel activation in their brains. Then subjects viewed another 120 novel target images, and information from the earlier scans is used reconstruct them. Natural images used include pictures of a seaside cafe and harbor, performers on a stage, and dense foliage.\n\nIt is possible to track which of two forms of rivalrous binocular illusions a person was subjectively experiencing from fMRI signals. The category of event which a person freely recalls can be identified from fMRI before they say what they remembered. Statistical analysis of EEG brainwaves has been claimed to allow the recognition of phonemes, and at a 60% to 75% level color and visual shape words.\nIt has also been shown that brain-reading can be achieved in a complex virtual environment.\n\nBrain-reading accuracy is increasing steadily as the quality of the data and the complexity of the decoding algorithms improve. In one recent experiment it was possible to identify which single image was being seen from a set of 120. In another it was possible to correctly identify 90% of the time which of two categories the stimulus came and the specific semantic category (out of 23) of the target image 40% of the time.\n\nIt has been noted that so far brain-reading is limited. \"In practice, exact reconstructions\nare impossible to achieve by any reconstruction algorithm on the basis of brain activity signals acquired by fMRI. This is because all reconstructions will inevitably be limited by inaccuracies in the encoding models and noise in the measured signals. Our results demonstrate that the natural image prior is a powerful (if unconventional) tool for mitigating the effects of these fundamental limitations. A natural image prior with only six million images is sufficient to produce reconstructions that are structurally and semantically similar to a target image.\"\n\nBrain-reading has been suggested as an alternative to polygraph machines as a form of lie detection. Another alternative to polygraph machines is blood oxygenated level dependent functional MRI technology (BOLD fMRI). This technique involves the interpretation of the local change in the concentration of oxygenated hemoglobin in the brain, although the relationship between this blood flow and neural activity is not yet completely understood. \n\nA number of concerns have been raised about the accuracy and ethical implications of brain-reading for this purpose. Laboratory studies have found rates of accuracy of up to 85%; however, there are concerns about what this means for false positive results among non-criminal populations: \"If the prevalence of \"prevaricators\" in the group being examined is low, the test will yield far more false-positive than true-positive results; about one person in five will be incorrectly identified by the test.\" Ethical problems involved in the use of brain-reading as lie detection include misapplications due to adoption of the technology before its reliability and validity can be properly assessed and due to misunderstanding of the technology, and privacy concerns due to unprecedented access to individual's private thoughts. However, it has been noted that the use of polygraph lie detection carries similar concerns about the reliability of the results and violation of privacy. \n\nBrain-reading has also been proposed as a method of improving human-machine interfaces, by the use of EEG to detect relevant brain states of a human. In recent years, there has been a rapid increase in patents for technology involved in reading brainwaves, rising from fewer than 400 from 2009–2012 to 1600 in 2014. These include proposed ways to control video games via brain waves and \"neuro-marketing\" to determine someone's thoughts about a new product or advertisement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6543", "title": "Carnivore", "text": "Carnivore\n\nA carnivore , meaning \"meat eater\" (Latin, \"caro\", genitive \"carnis\", meaning \"meat\" or \"flesh\" and \"vorare\" meaning \"to devour\"), is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging. Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are called obligate carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are called facultative carnivores. Omnivores also consume both animal and non-animal food, and, apart from the more general definition, there is no clearly defined ratio of plant to animal material that would distinguish a facultative carnivore from an omnivore. A carnivore at the top of the food chain, not preyed upon by other animals, is termed an apex predator.\n\n\"Carnivore\" also may refer to the mammalian order Carnivora, but this is somewhat misleading: many, but not all, Carnivora are meat eaters, and even fewer are true obligate carnivores (see below). For example, while the Arctic polar bear eats meat exclusively, most species of bears are actually omnivorous, and the giant panda is exclusively herbivorous. There are also many carnivorous species that are not members of Carnivora.\n\nOutside the animal kingdom, there are several genera containing carnivorous plants (predominantly insectivores) and several phyla containing carnivorous fungi (preying mostly on microscopic invertebrates such as nematodes, amoebae and springtails).\n\nCarnivores are sometimes characterized by their type of prey. For example, animals that eat mainly insects and similar invertebrates are called insectivores, while those that eat mainly fish are called piscivores. The first tetrapods, or land-dwelling vertebrates, were piscivorous amphibians known as labyrinthodonts. They gave rise to insectivorous vertebrates and, later, to predators of other tetrapods.\n\nCarnivores may alternatively be classified according to the percentage of meat in their diet. The diet of a hypercarnivore consists of more than 70% meat, that of a mesocarnivore 50–70%, and that of a hypocarnivore less than 30%, with the balance consisting of non-animal foods such as fruits, other plant material, or fungi.\n\nObligate or \"true\" carnivores are those whose diet requires nutrients found only in animal flesh. While obligate carnivores might be able to ingest small amounts of plant matter, they lack the necessary physiology required to digest it. In fact, some obligate carnivorous mammals will ingest vegetation only as an emetic, to self-induce vomiting of food that has upset its stomach.\n\nObligate carnivores include the axolotl, which consumes mainly worms and larvae in its environment, but if necessary will consume algae, as well as all felids (including the domestic cat) which require a diet of primarily animal flesh and organs. Specifically, cats have high protein requirements and their metabolisms appear unable to synthesize essential nutrients such as retinol, arginine, taurine, and arachidonic acid; thus, in nature, they must consume flesh to supply these nutrients.\n\nCharacteristics commonly associated with carnivores include strength, speed, and keen senses for hunting, as well as teeth and claws for capturing and tearing prey. However, some carnivores do not hunt and are scavengers, lacking the physical characteristics to bring down prey; in addition, most hunting carnivores will scavenge when the opportunity arises. Carnivores have comparatively short digestive systems, as they are not required to break down the tough cellulose found in plants.\n\nMany hunting animals have evolved eyes facing forward, enabling depth perception. This is almost universal among mammalian predators, while most reptile and amphibian predators have eyes facing sideways.\n\n\"Predation\" (the eating of one living creature by another for nutrition) predates the rise of commonly recognized carnivores by hundreds of millions (perhaps billions) of years. The earliest predators were microbial organisms, which engulfed or grazed on others. Because the fossil record is poor, these first predators could date back anywhere between 1 and over 2.7 Gya (billion years ago). The rise of eukaryotic cells at around 2.7 Gya, the rise of multicellular organisms at about 2 Gya, and the rise of mobile predators (around 600 Mya – 2 Gya, probably around 1 Gya) have all been attributed to early predatory behavior, and many very early remains show evidence of boreholes or other markings attributed to small predator species.\n\nAmong more familiar species, the first vertebrate carnivores were fish, and then amphibians that moved on to land. Early tetrapods were large amphibious piscivores. Some scientists assert that \"Dimetrodon\" \"was the first terrestrial vertebrate to develop the curved, serrated teeth that enable a predator to eat prey much larger than itself.\" While amphibians continued to feed on fish and later insects, reptiles began exploring two new food types: tetrapods (carnivory) and then plants (herbivory). Carnivory was a natural transition from insectivory for medium and large tetrapods, requiring minimal adaptation; in contrast, a complex set of adaptations was necessary for feeding on highly fibrous plant materials.\n\nIn the Mesozoic, some theropod dinosaurs such as \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" were probably obligate carnivores. Though the theropods were the larger carnivores, several carnivorous mammal groups were already present. Most notable are the gobiconodontids, the triconodontid \"Jugulator\", the deltatheroideans and \"Cimolestes\". Many of these, such as \"Repenomamus\", \"Jugulator\" and \"Cimolestes\", were among the largest mammals in their faunal assemblages, capable of attacking dinosaurs.\n\nIn the early-to-mid-Cenozoic, the dominant predator forms were mammals: hyaenodonts, oxyaenids, entelodonts, ptolemaiidans, arctocyonids and mesonychians, representing a great diversity of eutherian carnivores in the northern continents and Africa. In South America, sparassodonts were dominant, while Australia saw the presence of several marsupial predators, such as the dasyuromorphs and thylacoleonids. From the Miocene to the present, the dominant carnivorous mammals have been carnivoramorphs.\n\nMost carnivorous mammals, from dogs to \"Deltatheridium\", share several dental adaptations, such as carnassialiforme teeth, long canines and even similar tooth replacement patterns. Most aberrant are thylacoleonids, with a diprodontan dentition completely unlike that of any other mammal; and eutriconodonts like gobioconodontids and \"Jugulator\", with a three-cusp anatomy which nevertheless functioned similarly to carnassials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17178522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178522", "title": "Casualty prediction", "text": "Casualty prediction\n\nCasualty prediction is the science of predicting the number of deaths or injuries that may result from an epidemic, natural disaster or act of war such as the explosion of a nuclear weapon, chemical weapon or biological weapon. (Casualty estimation is the process of estimating the number of injuries or deaths in a battle or natural disaster that has already occurred.)\n\nThe New York University Large Scale Emergency Readiness Project applies agent-based modelling to simulate the effects of a large-scale disaster. Their initial project focused on modelling a 1998 Brazilian food-poisoning incident involving 8,000 injuries and 16 deaths.\n\nBlast casualty prediction is routinely performed in the planning of military operations. For example, a cruise missile attack was considered by the United States in 1998 for Tarnak Farms in order to kill Osama bin Laden. However, not enough was known about the collateral damage effects of cruise missiles on mud huts. At the time there were estimated to be 100 women and children in the area, and in order to spare these civilians, the attack was not approved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2645238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645238", "title": "Central pattern generator", "text": "Central pattern generator\n\nCentral pattern generators (CPGs) are biological neural circuits that produce rhythmic outputs in the absence of rhythmic input. They are the source of the tightly-coupled patterns of neural activity that drive rhythmic motions like walking, breathing, or chewing. The ability to function without input from higher brain areas still requires modulatory inputs, and their outputs are not fixed. Flexibility in response to sensory input is a fundamental quality of CPG driven behavior. To be classified as a rhythmic generator, a CPG requires:\n\nCPGs have been found in practically all vertebrate species investigated, including human.\n\nVarious molecular, genetic and imaging studies have been conducted as for the localization of the CPGs. The results have shown that the networks responsible for locomotion are distributed throughout the lower thoracic and lumbar regions of the spinal cord. Rhythmic movements of the tongue, that participate in swallowing, mastication and respiration, are driven by hypoglossal nuclei, which receive inputs from the dorsal medullary reticular column (DMRC) and the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS). The hypoglossal nucleus receives rhythmic excitatory inputs also from brainstem respiratory neurons within the pre-Boetzinger complex, which appears to play an important role in the origin of respiration rhythmogenesis.\n\nAlthough anatomical details of CPGs are specifically known in only a few cases, they have been shown to originate from the spinal cords of various vertebrates and to depend on relatively small and autonomous neural networks (rather than the entire nervous system) to generate rhythmic patterns. Many studies have been done to determine the neural substrate of locomotor CPGs in mammals. Neural rhythmicity can arise in two ways: \"through interactions among neurons (network-based rhythmicity) or through interactions among currents in individual neurons (endogenous oscillator neurons)\". A key to understanding rhythm generation is the concept of a half-center oscillator (HCO). A half-center oscillator consists of two neurons that have no rhythmogenic ability individually, but produce rhythmic outputs when reciprocally coupled. Half-center oscillators can function in a variety of ways. First, the two neurons may not necessarily fire in antiphase and can fire in any relative phasing, even synchrony, depending on the synaptic release. Second, half-centers can also function in an \"escape\" mode or a \"release\" mode. Escape and release refer to the way the off-neuron turns on: by escape or release from inhibition. Half-center oscillators can also be altered by intrinsic and network properties and can have dramatically different functionality based on variations in synaptic properties.\n\nThe classical view of CPGs, as specific networks of neurons dedicated to this function alone, has been challenged by numerous data obtained mostly on the central nervous system of invertebrates. In addition to be classical dedicated networks, most of the CPGs seem in fact to be either reorganizing or distributed circuits, and a single neural circuit can combine features typical of each of these architectures. The observation in invertebrates of pattern generators temporarily formed before the production of motor activity strengthens the assumption. CPG circuits appear thus to have a flexible character.\n\nOrganisms must adapt their behavior to meet the needs of their internal and external environments. Central pattern generators, as part of the neural circuitry of an organism, can be modulated to adapt to the organism's needs and surroundings. Three roles of neuromodulation have been found for CPG circuits:\n\nFor example, the \"Tritonia diomedea\" swimming CPG can produce reflexive withdrawal in response to weak sensory input, escape swimming in response to strong sensory input and crawling after escape swimming has ceased. The dorsal swim interneurons (DSIs) of the swim CPGs not only cause the rhythmic escape swimming, but also connect to cilia-activating efferent neurons. Experimental evidence confirms that both behaviors are mediated by the DSIs. \"Given the extreme differences between these behaviors—-rhythmic versus tonic, muscular versus ciliary, and brief versus prolonged—these findings reveal a striking versatility for a small multifunctional network.\" \"Part of this flexibility is caused by the release of serotonin from the DSIs, which causes cerebral cell 2 (C2) to release more transmitter and strengthen its network synapses. Application of serotonergic antagonists prevents the network from producing the swimming pattern, and hence this intranetwork modulation appears essential for network oscillation.\"\n\nData from experiments by Harris-Warrick in 1991 and Hooper and Marder in 1987 suggest that the functional target of modulation is the entire CPG network. These phenomena were first observed through experiments with the neuromodulator in the lobster cardiac ganglion (Sullivan and Miller 1984). The effect of proctolin could not be understood by looking only at the neurons it directly affected. \"Instead, neurons that are not directly affected both alter the response of the directly affected neurons and help to transmit the changes in the activity of these neurons throughout the network,\" allowing the entire network to change in consistent and synchronized way. Harris-Warrick and colleagues have conducted many studies over the years of the effects of neuromodulators on CPG neural networks. For example, a 1998 study showed the distributed nature of neuromodulation and that neuromodulators can reconfigure a motor network to allow a family of related movements. Specifically, dopamine was shown to affect both individual neurons, and synapses between neurons. Dopamine strengthens some synapses and weakens others by acting pre- and post-synaptically throughout the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion. These responses, as well as other effects of dopamine, can be opposite in sign in different locations, showing that the sum of the effects is the overall network effect and can cause the CPG to produce related families of different motor outputs.\n\nA single neuronal network, such as a central pattern generator, can be modulated moment-to-moment to produce several different physical actions depending on the needs of the animal. These were first coined \"polymorphic networks\" by Getting and Dekin in 1985. An example of one such polymorphic central pattern generator is a multifunctional network of the mollusk \"Tritonia diomedea\". As described by Hooper, weak sensory input to the swimming CPG produces reflexive withdrawal, while strong input produces swimming. The dorsal swim interneurons (DSIs) of the circuit release serotonin to convert to \"swim mode,\" while application of serotonergic antagonists prevents the swim pattern. Additionally, the same single interneuronal network has been found to produce not only \"rhythmic, muscle-based escape swimming,\" but also \"nonrhythmic, cilia-mediated crawling.\" Evidence also suggests that although the CPG controls related but separate functions, neuromodulation of one function can occur without affecting the other. For example, the swim mode can be sensitized by serotonin without affecting the crawl mode. Thus, the CPG circuit can control many separate functions with the appropriate neuromodulation.\n\nAlthough the theory of central pattern generation calls for basic rhythmicity and patterning to be centrally generated, CPGs can respond to sensory feedback to alter the patterning in behaviorally appropriate ways. Alteration of the pattern is difficult because feedback received during only one phase may require changed movement in the other parts of the patterned cycle to preserve certain coordination relationships. For example, walking with a pebble in the right shoe alters the entire gait, even though the stimulus is only present while standing on the right foot. Even during the time when the left foot is down and the sensory feedback is inactive, action is taken to prolong the right leg swing and extend the time on the left foot, leading to limping. This effect could be due to widespread and long-lasting effects of the sensory feedback on the CPG or due to short-term effects on a few neurons that in turn modulate nearby neurons and spread the feedback through the entire CPG in that way. Some degree of modulation is required to allow one CPG to assume multiple states in response to feedback.\n\nAdditionally, the effect of the sensory input varies depending on the phase of the pattern in which it occurs. For example, during walking, resistance to the top of the swinging foot (e.g., by a horizontal stick) causes the foot to be lifted higher to move over the stick. However, the same input to the standing foot cannot cause the foot to lift or the person would collapse. Thus, depending on the phase, the same sensory input can cause the foot to be lifted higher or held more firmly to the ground. \"This change in motor response as a function of motor pattern phase is called reflex reversal, and has been observed in invertebrates (DiCaprio and Clarac, 1981) and vertebrates (Forssberg et al., 1977). How this process occurs is poorly understood, but again two possibilities exist. One is that sensory input is appropriately routed to different CPG neurons as a function of motor pattern phase. The other is that the input reaches the same neurons at all phases, but that, as a consequence of the way in which the network transforms the input, network response varies appropriately as a function of motor pattern phase.\"\n\nA recent study by Gottschall and Nichols studied the hindlimb of a decerebrate cat during walking (a CPG controlled function) in response to changes in head pitch. This study describes the differences in gait and body position of cats walking uphill, downhill and on level surfaces. Proprioceptive (Golgi tendon organs and muscle spindles) and exteroreceptive (optic, vestibular and cutaneous) receptors work alone or in combination to adjust the CPG to sensory feedback. The study explored the effects of neck proprioceptors (giving information about the relative location of the head and body) and vestibular receptors (giving information about the orientation of the head relative to gravity). Decerebrate cats were made to walk on a level surface with their heads level, tilted up or tilted down. Comparing the decerebrate cats to normal cats showed similar EMG patterns during level walking and EMG patterns that reflected downhill walking with the head titled up and uphill walking with the head tilted down. This study proved that neck proprioceptors and vestibular receptors contribute sensory feedback that alters the gait of the animal. This information may be useful for treatment of gait disorders.\n\nCentral pattern generators can serve many functions in vertebrate animals. CPGs can play roles in movement, breathing, rhythm generation and other oscillatory functions. The sections below focus on specific examples of locomotion and rhythm generation, two key functions of CPGs.\n\nAs early as 1911, it was recognized, by the experiments of Thomas Graham Brown, that the basic pattern of stepping can be produced by the spinal cord without the need of descending commands from the cortex.\n\nThe first modern evidence of the central pattern generator was produced by isolating the locust nervous system and showing that it could produce a rhythmic output in isolation resembling that of the locust in flight. This was discovered by Wilson in 1961. Since that time, evidence has arisen for the presence of central pattern generators in vertebrate animals, starting with work on the cat in the 1960s by Elzbieta Jankowska in Gothenburg, who provided the first evidence for a spinal cord CPG. This section addresses the role of the central pattern generator in locomotion for the lamprey and humans.\n\nThe lamprey has been used as a model for vertebrate CPGs because, while its nervous system has a vertebrate organization, it shares many positive characteristics with invertebrates. When removed from the lamprey, the intact spinal cord can survive for days \"in vitro\". It also has very few neurons and can be easily stimulated to produce a fictive swimming motion indicative of a central pattern generator. As early as 1983, Ayers, Carpenter, Currie and Kinch proposed that there was a CPG responsible for most undulating movements in the lamprey including swimming forward and backward, burrowing in the mud and crawling on a solid surface, that although not surprisingly did not match the activity in the intact animal, nevertheless provided the basic locomotor output. The different movements have been found to be altered by neuromodulators, including serotonin in a study by Harris-Warrick and Cohen in 1985 and tachykinin in a study by Parker et al. in 1998. The lamprey model of CPG for locomotion has been important to the study of CPGs. Although Sten Grillner claims that the locomotor network is characterised, a claim that has seemingly been uncritically accepted by the spinal cord locomotor network field, there are in fact many missing details and Grillner cannot provide the evidence he uses to support his claims (Parker 2006). A general scheme of the lamprey CPG is now being used in the creation of artificial CPGs. For example, Ijspeert and Kodjabachian used Ekeberg's model for the lamprey to create artificial CPGs and simulate swimming movements in a lamprey-like substrate using controllers based on a SGOCE encoding. Essentially, these are the first steps toward the use of CPGs to code for locomotion in robots. The vertebrate model of CPG has been also developed with both Hodgkin-Huxley formalism, its variants and control system approaches. For example, Yakovenko and colleagues have developed a simple mathematical model that describes basic principles proposed by T.G. Brown with integrate-to-threshold units organized with mutually inhibitory connections. This model is sufficient to describe complex properties of behavior, such as different regimes of the extensor- and flexor-dominant locomotion observed during electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR), MLR-induced fictive locomotion.\n\nConnections between the CPGs controlling each limb influence the coordination between the limbs and hence the gaits in quadrupedal and possibly also bipedal animals. Left right coordination is mediated by commissural and fore-hind by long-projecting propiospinal interneurons. The balance of the left-right alternation (mediated genetically identified V0d and V0v neuron classes) to left-synchronization promoting commissural interneurons (potentially mediated V3 neurons) determines whether walk and trot (alternating gaits) or gallop and bound (synchronous gaits) are expressed. This balance changes with increasing speed, potentially because of connection from the MLR to commissural interneurons, and causes speed dependent gait transitions characteristic for quadrupedal animals. The walk to trot transition potentially occurs because of the stronger decrease of extension than flexion phase durations with increasing locomotor speed, which leads to progressively increasing overlap between the diagonal limbs up until diagonal synchronization (trot).\n\nCentral pattern generators also contribute to locomotion in higher animals and humans. In 1994, Calancie, et al. claimed to have witnessed the \"first well-defined example of a central rhythm generator for stepping in the adult human.\" The subject was a 37-year-old male who suffered an injury to the cervical spinal cord 17 years prior. After initial total paralysis below the neck, the subject eventually regained some movement of the arms and fingers and limited movement in the lower limbs. He had not recovered sufficiently to support his own weight. After 17 years, the subject found that when lying supine and extending his hips, his lower extremities underwent step-like movements for as long as he remained lying down. \"The movements (i) involved alternating flexion and extension of his hips, knees, and ankles; (ii) were smooth and rhythmic; (iii) were forceful enough that the subject soon became uncomfortable due to excessive muscle 'tightness' and an elevated body temperature; and (iv) could not be stopped by voluntary effort.\" After extensive study of the subject, the experimenters concluded that \"these data represent the clearest evidence to date that such a [CPG] network does exist in man.\" Four years later, in 1998, Dimitrijevic, et al. showed that the human lumbar pattern generating networks can be activated by drive to large-diameter sensory afferents of the posterior roots. When tonic electrical stimulation is applied to these fibers in motor complete spinal cord injured individuals (i.e., individuals in whom the spinal cord is functionally isolated from the brain) rhythmic, locomotor-like movement of the lower limbs can be elicited. These measurements were performed in supine position, thus minimizing peripheral feedback. Subsequent studies showed that these lumbar locomotor centers can form a large variety of rhythmic movements by combining and distributing stereotypical patterns to the numerous lower limb muscles.\n\nIf step cycle durations and muscle activations were fixed, it wouldn't be possible to change body velocity and adapt to varying terrain. It has been suggested that the mammalian locomotor CPG comprises a “timer” (possibly in the form of coupled oscillators) which generates step cycles of varying durations, and a “pattern formation layer,” which selects and grades the activation of motor pools.\nIncreasing the neural drive from the midbrain locomotor region (MLR) to the spinal CPG increases the step cycle frequency (the cadence). Swing and stance phase durations co-vary in a fairly fixed relationship, with stance phases changing more than swing phases.\n\nSensory input from the limbs may truncate or extend individual phase durations in a process akin to finite state control (in which \"if-then” rules determine when state transitions occur). For example, if a limb that is swinging forward reaches the end of swing in less time than the current CPG-generated flexor phase duration, sensory input would cause the CPG timer to terminate swing and start the stance phase. Furthermore, as body velocity increases, the pattern formation layer would increase muscle activation nonlinearly to provide increased load-bearing and thrust forces. It has been posited that in well-predicted movements, CPG-generated phase durations and muscle forces closely match those required by the evolving biomechanical events, minimizing the sensory corrections required. The term ‘‘neuromechanical tuning’’ has been coined to describe this process \n\nFig. 1 provides a simplified schematic that summarizes these proposed mechanisms. A command specifying desired body velocity descends from higher centers to the MLR, which drives the spinal locomotor CPG. The CPG timer produces the appropriate cadence and phase durations and the pattern formation layer modulates the motoneuronal outputs. The activated muscles resist stretch through their own intrinsic biomechanical properties, providing a rapid form of length and velocity feedback control. Reflexes mediated by Golgi tendon organ and other afferents provide additional load compensation, but the main role of sensory input may be to adjust or override the CPG at stance-swing-stance transitions.\n\nAs described in Neuromodulation, the human locomotive CPG is very adaptable and can respond to sensory input. It receives input from the brainstem as well as from the environment to keep the network regulated. Newer studies have not only confirmed the presence of the CPG for human locomotion, but also confirmed its robustness and adaptability. For example, Choi and Bastian showed that the networks responsible for human walking are adaptable on short and long timescales. They showed adaptation to different gait patterns and different walking contexts. Also, they showed that different motor patterns can adapt independently. Adults could even walk on treadmills going in a different direction for each leg. This study showed that independent networks control forward and backward walking and that networks controlling each leg can adapt independently and be trained to walk independently. Thus, humans also possess a central pattern generator for locomotion that is capable not only of rhythmic pattern generation but also remarkable adaptation and usefulness in a wide variety of situations.\n\nA three-phase model is the classical view of the respiratory CPG. The phases of the respiratory CPG are characterized by the rhythmic activity of: (1) the phrenic nerve during inspiration; (2) recurrent laryngeal nerve branches that innervate the thyroarytenoid muscle during the last stage of expiration; (3) the internal intercostal nerve branches that innervate the triangularis sterni muscle during the second stage of expiration. The rhythmicity of these nerves is classically viewed as originating from a single rhythm generator. In this model, phasing is produced by reciprocal synaptic inhibition between groups of sequentially active interneurons.\n\nNevertheless, an alternative model has been proposed reinforced by certain experimental data. According to this model, respiratory rhythm is generated by two coupled anatomically distinct rhythm generators, one in the pre-Boetzinger complex and the other in the retrotrapezoid nucleus / parafacial respiratory group. Further survey provided evidence to the hypothesis that one of the networks is responsible for inspiration rhythm and the other for expiration rhythm. Therefore, inspiration and expiration are distinct functions and one does not induce the other, as is the common belief, but one of two dominates the behavior by generating a faster rhythm.\n\nSwallowing involves the coordinated contraction of more than 25 pairs of muscles in the oropharynx, larynx and esophagus, which are active during an oropharyngeal phase, followed by the primary esophageal peristalsis. Swallowing depends on a CPG located in the medulla oblongata, which involves several brain stem motor nuclei and two main groups of interneurons: a dorsal swallowing group (DSG) in the nucleus tractus solitarii and a ventral swallowing group (VSG) located in the ventrolateral medulla above the nucleus ambiguus. Neurons in the DSG are responsible for the generation of the swallowing pattern, while those in the VSG distribute the commands to the various motoneuronal pools. As in other CPGs, the functioning of the central network can be modulated by peripheral and central inputs, so that the swallowing pattern is adapted to the size of the bolus.\n\nWithin this network, central inhibitory connections play a major role, producing a rostrocaudal inhibition that parallels the rostrocaudal anatomy of the swallowing tract. Thus, when the neurons controlling the proximal parts of the tract are active, those that command more distal parts are inhibited. Apart from the type of connection between the neurons, intrinsic properties of the neurons, especially those of NTS neurons, probably also contribute to the shaping and timing of the swallowing pattern.\n\nThe swallowing CPG is a flexible CPG. This means that at least some of the swallowing neurons may be multifunctional neurons and belong to pools of neurons that are common to several CPGs. One such CPG is the respiratory one, which has been observed interacting with the swallowing CPG.\n\nCentral pattern generators can also play a role in rhythm generation for other functions in vertebrate animals. For example, the rat vibrissa system uses an unconventional CPG for whisking movements. \"Like other CPGs, the whisking generator can operate without cortical input or sensory feedback. However, unlike other CPGs, vibrissa motoneurons actively participate in rhythmogenesis by converting tonic serotonergic inputs into the patterned motor output responsible for movement of the vibrissae.\" Breathing is another non-locomotive function of central pattern generators. For example, larval amphibians accomplish gas exchange largely through rhythmic ventilation of the gills. A study by Broch, et al. showed that lung ventilation in the tadpole brainstem may be driven by a pacemaker-like mechanism, whereas the respiratory CPG adapts in the adult bullfrog as it matures. Thus, CPGs hold a broad range of functions in the vertebrate animal and are widely adaptable and variable with age, environment and behavior.\n\nRhythmicity in CPG's can also result from time-dependent cellular properties such as adaptation, delayed excitation, and post-inhibitory rebound (PIR). PIR is an intrinsic property that elicits rhythmic electrical activity by depolarizing the membrane once hyperpolarizing stimulus is gone. \"It can be produced by several mechanisms including hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) or deinactivation of depolarization-activated inward currents\" Once inhibition has ceased, this period of PIR can be explained as the time with increased neuronal excitability. It is the property of many CNS neurons that sometimes results in action potential \"bursts\" following immediately after inhibitory synaptic input.\"Because of this, it has been suggested that PIR may contribute to the maintenance of oscillatory activity in neural networks that are characterized by mutual inhibitory connections, like those involved in locomotor behaviors. In addition, PIR is often included as an element in computational models of neural networks that involve mutual inhibition\" \nFor example, the \"PIR in crayfish stretch receptor neurons is caused by recovery from adaptation during the course of inhibitory hyperpolarization. One feature of that system is that PIR only occurs if the hyperpolarization is imposed on a background of excitation, caused in this case by stretch. They also found that PIR can be elicited in the stretch receptor by hyperpolarizing current pulses. This was an important finding because it showed that PIR is an intrinsic property of the postsynaptic neuron, related to the membrane potential change associated with inhibition but independent of transmitter receptors or presynaptic properties. The latter conclusion has stood the test of time, marking PIR as a robust property of CNS neurons in a wide variety of contexts.\" \nThis cellular property can most easily be seen in the Lamprey neural circuit. The swimming movement is produced by alternating neural activity between the left and right side of the body, causing it to bend back and forth while creating oscillating movements. While the Lamprey is bent to the left, there is reciprocal inhibition on the right side causing it to relax due to hyperpolarization. Immediately after this hyperopolarizing stimulus, the interneurons use post-inhibitory rebound to initiate activity in the right side. Depolarization of the membrane causes it to contract while reciprocal inhibition is now applied to the left side.\n\nAs described earlier, CPGs can also function in a variety of ways in invertebrate animals. In the mollusc \"Tritonia\", a CPG modulates reflexive withdrawal, escape swimming and crawling. CPGs are also used in flight in locusts and for respiration systems in other insects. Central pattern generators play a broad role in all animals and show amazing variability and adaptability in almost all cases.\n\nThe classical view of movement control prior to works of Brown attributed the function of muscle pattern generation largely to sensory feedback mechanisms. In this light, the pattern generator can be considered as an intrinsic spinal processor that corrects imperfect sensory feedback and adapts central input to this optimized peripheral input.\n\n"}
{"id": "984692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984692", "title": "Computational sociology", "text": "Computational sociology\n\n<onlyinclude>\nComputational sociology is a branch of sociology that uses computationally intensive methods to analyze and model social phenomena. Using computer simulations, artificial intelligence, complex statistical methods, and analytic approaches like social network analysis, computational sociology develops and tests theories of complex social processes through bottom-up modeling of social interactions.\n\nIt involves the understanding of social agents, the interaction among these agents, and the effect of these interactions on the social aggregate. Although the subject matter and methodologies in social science differ from those in natural science or computer science, several of the approaches used in contemporary social simulation originated from fields such as physics and artificial intelligence. Some of the approaches that originated in this field have been imported into the natural sciences, such as measures of network centrality from the fields of social network analysis and network science.\n\nIn relevant literature, computational sociology is often related to the study of social complexity. Social complexity concepts such as complex systems, non-linear interconnection among macro and micro process, and emergence, have entered the vocabulary of computational sociology. A practical and well-known example is the construction of a computational model in the form of an \"artificial society\", by which researchers can analyze the structure of a social system.</onlyinclude>\n\nIn the past four decades, computational sociology has been introduced and gaining popularity . This has been used primarily for modeling or building explanations of social processes and are depending on the emergence of complex behavior from simple activities. The idea behind emergence is that properties of any bigger system don't always have to be properties of the components that the system is made of. The people responsible for the introduction of the idea of emergence are Alexander, Morgan, and Broad, who were classical emergentists. The time at which these emergentists came up with this concept and method was during the time of the early twentieth century. The aim of this method was to find a good enough accommodation between two different and extreme ontologies, which were reductionist materialism and dualism. \n\nWhile emergence has had a valuable and important role with the foundation of Computational Sociology, there are those who do not necessarily agree. One major leader in the field, Epstein, doubted the use because there were aspects that are unexplainable. Epstein put up a claim against emergentism, in which he says it \"is precisely the generative sufficiency of the parts that constitutes the whole's explanation\".\n\nAgent-based models have had a historical influence on Computational Sociology. These models first came around in the 1960s, and were used to simulate control and feedback processes in organizations, cities, etc. During the 1970s, the application introduced the use of individuals as the main units for the analyses and used bottom-up strategies for modeling behaviors. The last wave occurred in the 1980s. At this time, the models were still bottom-up; the only difference is that the agents interact interdependently.\n\nIn the post-war era, Vannevar Bush's differential analyser, John von Neumann's cellular automata, Norbert Wiener's cybernetics, and Claude Shannon's information theory became influential paradigms for modeling and understanding complexity in technical systems. In response, scientists in disciplines such as physics, biology, electronics, and economics began to articulate a general theory of systems in which all natural and physical phenomena are manifestations of interrelated elements in a system that has common patterns and properties. Following Émile Durkheim's call to analyze complex modern society \"sui generis\", post-war structural functionalist sociologists such as Talcott Parsons seized upon these theories of systematic and hierarchical interaction among constituent components to attempt to generate grand unified sociological theories, such as the AGIL paradigm. Sociologists such as George Homans argued that sociological theories should be formalized into hierarchical structures of propositions and precise terminology from which other propositions and hypotheses could be derived and operationalized into empirical studies. Because computer algorithms and programs had been used as early as 1956 to test and validate mathematical theorems, such as the four color theorem, some scholars anticipated that similar computational approaches could \"solve\" and \"prove\" analogously formalized problems and theorems of social structures and dynamics.\n\nBy the late 1960s and early 1970s, social scientists used increasingly available computing technology to perform macro-simulations of control and feedback processes in organizations, industries, cities, and global populations. These models used differential equations to predict population distributions as holistic functions of other systematic factors such as inventory control, urban traffic, migration, and disease transmission. Although simulations of social systems received substantial attention in the mid-1970s after the Club of Rome published reports predicting that policies promoting exponential economic growth would eventually bring global environmental catastrophe , the inconvenient conclusions led many authors to seek to discredit the models, attempting to make the researchers themselves appear unscientific. Hoping to avoid the same fate, many social scientists turned their attention toward micro-simulation models to make forecasts and study policy effects by modeling aggregate changes in state of individual-level entities rather than the changes in distribution at the population level. However, these micro-simulation models did not permit individuals to interact or adapt and were not intended for basic theoretical research.\n\nThe 1970s and 1980s were also a time when physicists and mathematicians were attempting to model and analyze how simple component units, such as atoms, give rise to global properties, such as complex material properties at low temperatures, in magnetic materials, and within turbulent flows. Using cellular automata, scientists were able to specify systems consisting of a grid of cells in which each cell only occupied some finite states and changes between states were solely governed by the states of immediate neighbors. Along with advances in artificial intelligence and microcomputer power, these methods contributed to the development of \"chaos theory\" and \"complexity theory\" which, in turn, renewed interest in understanding complex physical and social systems across disciplinary boundaries. Research organizations explicitly dedicated to the interdisciplinary study of complexity were also founded in this era: the Santa Fe Institute was established in 1984 by scientists based at Los Alamos National Laboratory and the BACH group at the University of Michigan likewise started in the mid-1980s.\n\nThis cellular automata paradigm gave rise to a third wave of social simulation emphasizing agent-based modeling. Like micro-simulations, these models emphasized bottom-up designs but adopted four key assumptions that diverged from microsimulation: autonomy, interdependency, simple rules, and adaptive behavior. Agent-based models are less concerned with predictive accuracy and instead emphasize theoretical development. In 1981, mathematician and political scientist Robert Axelrod and evolutionary biologist W.D. Hamilton published a major paper in \"Science\" titled \"The Evolution of Cooperation\" which used an agent-based modeling approach to demonstrate how social cooperation based upon reciprocity can be established and stabilized in a prisoner's dilemma game when agents followed simple rules of self-interest. Axelrod and Hamilton demonstrated that individual agents following a simple rule set of (1) cooperate on the first turn and (2) thereafter replicate the partner's previous action were able to develop \"norms\" of cooperation and sanctioning in the absence of canonical sociological constructs such as demographics, values, religion, and culture as preconditions or mediators of cooperation. Throughout the 1990s, scholars like William Sims Bainbridge, Kathleen Carley, Michael Macy, and John Skvoretz developed multi-agent-based models of generalized reciprocity, prejudice, social influence, and organizational information processing. In 1999, Nigel Gilbert published the first textbook on Social Simulation: \"Simulation for the social scientist\" and established its most relevant journal: the Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation.\n\nIndependent from developments in computational models of social systems, social network analysis emerged in the 1970s and 1980s from advances in graph theory, statistics, and studies of social structure as a distinct analytical method and was articulated and employed by sociologists like James S. Coleman, Harrison White, Linton Freeman, J. Clyde Mitchell, Mark Granovetter, Ronald Burt, and Barry Wellman. The increasing pervasiveness of computing and telecommunication technologies throughout the 1980s and 1990s demanded analytical techniques, such as network analysis and multilevel modeling, that could scale to increasingly complex and large data sets. The most recent wave of computational sociology, rather than employing simulations, uses network analysis and advanced statistical techniques to analyze large-scale computer databases of electronic proxies for behavioral data. Electronic records such as email and instant message records, hyperlinks on the World Wide Web, mobile phone usage, and discussion on Usenet allow social scientists to directly observe and analyze social behavior at multiple points in time and multiple levels of analysis without the constraints of traditional empirical methods such as interviews, participant observation, or survey instruments. Continued improvements in machine learning algorithms likewise have permitted social scientists and entrepreneurs to use novel techniques to identify latent and meaningful patterns of social interaction and evolution in large electronic datasets.\nThe automatic parsing of textual corpora has enabled the extraction of actors and their relational networks on a vast scale, \nturning textual data into network data. The resulting networks, which can contain thousands of nodes, are then analysed by using tools from Network theory to identify the key actors, the key communities or parties, and general properties such as robustness or structural stability of the overall network, or centrality of certain nodes. This automates the approach introduced by quantitative narrative analysis, whereby subject-verb-object triplets are identified with pairs of actors linked by an action, or pairs formed by actor-object.\n\nContent analysis has been a traditional part of social sciences and media studies for a long time. The automation of content analysis has allowed a \"big data\" revolution to take place in that field, with studies in social media and newspaper content that include millions of news items. Gender bias, readability, content similarity, reader preferences, and even mood have been analyzed based on text mining methods over millions of documents. The analysis of readability, gender bias and topic bias was demonstrated in Flaounas et al. showing how different topics have different gender biases and levels of readability; the possibility to detect mood shifts in a vast population by analysing Twitter content was demonstrated as well.\n\nThe analysis of vast quantities of historical newspaper content has been pioneered by Dzogang et al., which showed how periodic structures can be automatically discovered in historical newspapers. A similar analysis was performed on social media, again revealing strongly periodic structures.\n\nComputational sociology, as with any field of study, faces a set of challenges. These challenges need to be handled meaningfully so as to make the maximum impact on society.\n\nEach society that is formed tends to be in one level or the other and there exists tendencies of interactions between and across these levels. Levels need not only be micro-level or macro-level in nature. There can be intermediate levels in which a society exists say - groups, networks, communities etc.\n\nThe question however arises as to how to identify these levels and how they come into existence? And once they are in existence how do they interact within themselves and with other levels?\n\nIf we view entities(agents) as nodes and the connections between them as the edges, we see the formation of networks. The connections in these networks do not come about based on just objective relationships between the entities, rather they are decided upon by factors chosen by the participating entities. The challenge with this process is that, it is difficult to identify when a set of entities will form a network. These networks may be of trust networks, co-operation networks, dependence networks etc. There have been cases where heterogeneous set of entities have shown to form strong and meaningful networks among themselves.\n\nAs discussed previously, societies fall into levels and in one such level, the individual level, a micro-macro link refers to the interactions which create higher-levels. There are a set of questions that needs to be answered regarding these Micro-Macro links. How they are formed? When do they converge? What is the feedback pushed to the lower levels and how are they pushed?\n\nAnother major challenge in this category concerns the validity of information and their sources. In recent years there has been a boom in information gathering and processing. However, little attention was paid to the spread of false information between the societies. Tracing back the sources and finding ownership of such information is difficult.\n\nThe evolution of the networks and levels in the society brings about cultural diversity. A thought which arises however is that, when people tend to interact and become more accepting of other cultures and beliefs, how is it that diversity still persists? Why is there no convergence? A major challenge is how to model these diversities. Are there external factors like mass media, locality of societies etc. which influence the evolution or persistence of cultural diversities?\n\nAny study or modelling when combined with experimentation needs to be able to address the questions being asked. Computational social science deals with large scale data and the challenge becomes much more evident as the scale grows. How would one design informative simulations on a large scale? And even if a large scale simulation is brought up, how is the evaluation supposed to be performed?\n\nAnother challenge is identifying the models that would best fit the data and the complexities of these models. These models would help us predict how societies might evolve over time and provide possible explanations on how things work.\n\nGenerative models helps us to perform extensive qualitative analysis in a controlled fashion. A model proposed by Epstein, is the agent-based simulation, which talks about identifying an initial set of heterogeneous entities(agents) and observe their evolution and growth based on simple local rules.\n\nBut what are these local rules? How does one identify them for a set of heterogeneous agents? Evaluation and impact of these rules state a whole new set of difficulties.\n\nIntegrating simple models which perform better on individual tasks to form a Hybrid model is an approach that can be looked into. These models can offer better performance and understanding of the data. However the trade-off of identifying and having a deep understanding of the interactions between these simple models arises when one needs to come up with one combined, well performing model. Also, coming up with tools and applications to help analyse and visualize the data based on these hybrid models is another added challenge.\n\nComputational sociology can bring impacts to science, technology and society.\n\nIn order for the study of computational sociology to be effective, there has to be valuable innovations. These innovation can be of the form of new data analytics tools, better models and algorithms. The advent of such innovation will be a boon for the scientific community in large. \n\nOne of the major challenges of computational sociology is the modelling of social processes . Various law and policy makers would be able to see efficient and effective paths to issue new guidelines and the mass in general would be able to evaluate and gain fair understanding of the options presented in front of them enabling an open and well balanced decision process. .\n\nThe most relevant journal of the discipline is the Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11980858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11980858", "title": "Cutter Bill", "text": "Cutter Bill\n\nCutter Bill (1955–1982) was a Quarter Horse stallion and the 1962 National Cutting Horse Association (NCHA) Open World Champion cutting horse with record earnings for the year. He also won the 1962 American Quarter Horse Association (AQHA) Honor Roll cutting horse award which made him the first horse to have won both the NCHA and AQHA awards in the same year. Cutter Bill was owned by the flamboyant Texas millionaire Rex Cauble who in 1962 decided to campaign Cutter Bill with Sonny Perry in the saddle showing him. In order for Cutter Bill to compete in as many shows as possible that year, Cauble flew Cutter Bill and three other horses on his private jet to various shows.\n\nIt was R. L. Underwood's linebreeding program to preserve the Copperbottom bloodlines that produced Cutter Bill, a 1955 palomino Quarter Horse stallion, AQHA registration #53703. His sire, Buddy Dexter, was the inbred progeny of a father to daughter cross along with some linebreeding throughout the pedigree.\n\nIn 1956, Cauble and his then-wife, Josephine, attended Underwood's dispersal sale with the intention of buying broodmares to breed to Cauble's foundation Quarter Horse sires, Wimpy P-1, Silver King P-183 and Hard Twist P-555. Josephine was attracted to a yearling palomino colt that was tied to a fence at the sale. She persuaded Cauble to bid on him, which he agreed to do up to a set price of US$1,000.00 but by the time the bidding was over, Cauble had paid US$2500 for the colt. He wasn't as impressed by the colt's conformation as he was by his demeanor. Little did he know that colt would grow up to be Cutter Bill, a legend in the Quarter Horse world. Cauble broke Cutter Bill himself, and for the first couple of years used him to tease mares in preparation for breeding them to his foundation stallions.\n\nCutter Bill was started on cattle in June 1958. \"Cauble said the first good trainer Cutter Bill met was Willis Bennett of Gail, Texas\", a trainer Cauble hired to work at his ranch in Crockett, Texas. Bennett showed Cutter Bill to earn 1959 AQHA High Point Junior Cutting Horse. He was later trained by Willis Bennett's older brother Milt, who owned and rode Snooky to win the 1955 NCHA World Championship. Other trainers who rode Cutter Bill include Connie Wills, Roy Huffaker, John Carter and Tommy Arhopulous.\n\nIn 1962, Sonny Perry, who won the 1961 NCHA World Championship riding Senor George, asked Cauble if he could haul Cutter Bill for the world title. The pair set the 1962 NCHA earnings record capturing the NCHA World Championship and also earned the AQHA Honor Roll award. He was the 1963 NCHA Reserve World Champion, earning a total of $35,964.05 in NCHA sponsored cuttings. In 1964, Rex Cauble showed Cutter Bill in the non-professional division, and won the 1964 NCHA Non-Pro World Championship title. His AQHA awards in 1962 included High Point Cutting Horse, as well as AQHA Champion and Performance Register of Merit awards. He was also an AQHA Superior Cutting Horse. He was the second horse to win both the NCHA World Champion title and the AQHA High Point Cutting title, Poco Stampede was the first, but he was the first to do it in the same year.\n\nAmong his famous offspring were Cutters Indian who was the 1972 AQHA High Point Jr. Western Pleasure Stallion, the 1972 AQHA High Point 3-year-old Halter Stallion, and the 1972 AQHA High Point Jr. Trail Stallion, Bill's Highness, Cutter's First, Bill's Jazabell, Cutter's Lad, Pecos Billie, Blaze Face Bill, Cutter's Streak and Bill's Loceta. Bill's Lady Day won the 1987 AQHA Senior Calf Roping World Champion title and Cutter's Rocket won two youth World Championships in working cowhorse in 1983 and 1985. Royal Cutter won the 1971 National Reined Cow Horse Association's Snaffle Bit Futurity and then later won the hackamore and bridle sweepstakes held by the same organization.\nCutter Bill gained further fame when Rex Cauble opened two upscale western apparel stores and named them Cutter Bill's Western World. Cutter Bill placed his hoofs in wet cement outside the Houston store at its opening in 1967. However, Cauble lost the stores after being convicted in the Cowboy Mafia drug smuggling trial. Cutter Bill died in the fall of 1982 and was buried on the Cauble Ranch in Denton, TX. He was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame in 2003, the same year Rex Cauble died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1824987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1824987", "title": "Dead Celebrities", "text": "Dead Celebrities\n\n\"Dead Celebrities\" is the eighth episode of the thirteenth season of the American animated television series \"South Park\". The 189th overall episode of the series, it originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on October 7, 2009. In the episode, Ike is haunted by the ghosts of dead celebrities until Michael Jackson, who refuses to accept death, possesses him.\n\nThe episode was written and directed by series co-creator Trey Parker, and was rated TV-MA L in the United States (specifically for adults, with coarse language). \"Dead Celebrities\" included references to several actors, singers and famous people who died before or during the summer of 2009, when \"South Park\" was on a mid-season hiatus. Among the celebrities featured in the episode were Billy Mays, Ed McMahon, Farrah Fawcett, Patrick Swayze, Walter Cronkite, Dom DeLuise, Ted Kennedy, Natasha Richardson, Bea Arthur, David Carradine, DJ AM, Michael Jackson, Ricardo Montalbán, and Steve McNair. \"Dead Celebrities\" also parodied the films \"The Sixth Sense\" and \"Poltergeist.\"\n\nThe reality series \"Ghost Hunters\" and its stars, Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, were mocked in the episode. Hawes and Wilson said they loved the parody and encouraged fans to watch the show on their Twitter accounts. A subplot claimed food at the Chipotle Mexican Grill resulted in customers defecating blood, a claim which was disputed by the restaurant chain within days of the episode's broadcast. \"Dead Celebrities\" received generally mixed reviews. According to Nielsen ratings, \"Dead Celebrities\" was seen by 2.67 million overall households.\n\nIke is terrified by frequent encounters with the ghosts of recently deceased celebrities. He is haunted by people such as Farrah Fawcett, David Carradine, Ed McMahon, DJ AM, and especially Billy Mays, who repeatedly tries selling Ike products from the afterlife. Kyle is terrified when he finds out about the ghost his brother is encountering and tells Stan, Cartman and Kenny about the encounters. Cartman, who does not initially care, decides to help when Kyle mentions that one of the ghosts haunting Ike is Billy Mays. Cartman then shows commercials that feature Mays on television, implying that he is an enthusiastic supporter of a product which Mays promoted, called \"ChipotlAway\", which cleans bloodstains from people's underwear caused by eating food from Chipotle Mexican Grill. The boys call the team from the reality television series \"Ghost Hunters\" in to help, but they quickly, fearfully start ascribing supernatural meaning to random, ambient, environmental noises, before urinating and defecating on themselves, and finally running from the house. Eventually, Ike goes into a coma because of his multiple experiences with the ghosts.\n\nThe boys seek help from a medium (a parody of Zelda Rubinstein's character in \"Poltergeist\"), who explains the celebrities are trapped in purgatory, which she compares to being stuck on a plane waiting endlessly on a runway for permission to take off. The medium manages to contact the spirits and tell them that they have passed on. Much to her surprise, the celebrities say that they all accept the fact. Two deceased celebrities, CBS News anchorman Walter Cronkite and Patrick Swayze, tell her that Michael Jackson's refusal to acknowledge his death is the main cause of them being trapped. Some of the celebrities help the medium and the boys try to convince Jackson that he is dead, but Jackson keeps denying it and insists he is not only alive, but also a little white girl. His denial is so strong that he emits a very powerful force which flings the medium out the window of Ike's hospital room, where she falls to her death. The ghosts of these annoyed celebrities are shown in purgatory, which resembles the interior of an airplane, complete with seats, flight attendants and pilot voice-over announcements.\n\nAfter the energy disturbance, Jackson's spirit takes over Ike's body, causing Ike to speak, sing and dance like Jackson himself. The boys find from online research that the only way to make Jackson accept his death is to make him experience the acceptance he sought in life, so they take him to a child beauty pageant for young girls. Dressed like a little girl, Ike/Jackson impresses two of the male judges by singing a tune sounding similar to Jackson's \"You Are Not Alone,\" but they are promptly arrested for masturbating while watching the children, leaving a single, unimpressed female judge (much to the shock of the boys, who were unaware of the men's lewd acts and considered them the best judges). When Cartman notices the judge eating Chipotle, he bribes her with knowledge about the ChipotlAway product, and she declares Ike/Jackson the winner as a result. One of the other contestants is physically beaten by her mother for losing. Having found his acceptance, Jackson leaves Ike's body, and Ike is extremely surprised and disgusted to find himself dressed like a little girl.\n\nLater on, Jackson and the other celebrities in purgatory are reunited and they are finally able to lift off. Initially happy, they are soon taken to Hell. To their annoyance, however, the flight attendant tells them that they must again wait as Hell is a tow gate.\n\n\"Dead Celebrities\" was written and directed by series co-founder Trey Parker, and was rated TV-MA L in the United States. It first aired on October 7, 2009 in the United States on Comedy Central. The day after \"Dead Celebrities\" was originally broadcast, T-shirts and hooded sweatshirts based on the episode were made available at \"South Park Studios\", the official \"South Park\" website. It featured a frightened Ike standing above the phrase, \"I see dead celebrities\".\n\n\"Dead Celebrities\" includes references to several actors, singers and other celebrities who died in the summer of 2009, when the thirteenth season of \"South Park\" was on a mid-season hiatus. The episode serves not only to parody the celebrities themselves, but also to provide commentary on the tendency of American media to exploit, idolatrize and excessively report on the lives of celebrities. The most prominently featured of these celebrities is pop singer Michael Jackson, who died of multiple drug intoxication on June 25.\n\nBilly Mays, a television advertisement salesman, is the first dead celebrity featured in the episode, and plays a large role in the early part of the script. Mays' son, Billy Mays III, a self-proclaimed \"South Park\" fan, said he loved \"Dead Celebrities\", and found its portrayal of his father tasteful and respectful. He said, \"South Park gets a little edgy sometimes, but at their core, they're just social satire, you know? I think it was natural for them to do a dead celebrities episode with this whole summer and how it's been, and I think the way they did it was pretty tasteful for the most part.\" The spirit of David Carradine is shown wearing lingerie and with a noose around his neck, a reference to his June 3, 2009, death by autoerotic asphyxiation. Among the others featured in the episode were actress Farrah Fawcett, journalist Walter Cronkite, disc jockey Adam Goldstein (DJ AM), politician Ted Kennedy, actress Beatrice Arthur, television personality Ed McMahon, actor Patrick Swayze, actress Natasha Richardson, hot dog magnate Oscar G. Mayer, Jr. and actor/chef Dom DeLuise.\n\n\"Dead Celebrities\" makes frequent mention of the Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurant chain, describing the food as extremely tasty, but claiming it resulted in bloody stool. Shortly after the episode first aired, a Chipotle spokesperson said via a Twitter message that the claim was false. In the episode's commentary, Trey Parker and Matt Stone admitted that they loved Chipotle, but found it funnier to use a restaurant with a healthy reputation rather than a place like McDonald's or Taco Bell. Ike's ability to see the spirits of dead celebrities serves as a parody of the 1999 thriller film \"The Sixth Sense\", which stars Haley Joel Osment as a young boy who can see ghosts. Ike's line, \"I see dead celebrities\", is a reference to that film's most famous line, \"I see dead people.\" The old lady psychic with a very high-pitched voice is a reference to the character played by Zelda Rubinstein in the 1982 horror film, \"Poltergeist\". Another film reference is made to \"The Exorcist\" when the medium is flung from the window. \"Dead Celebrities\" also mocks the Syfy reality television series \"Ghost Hunters\" by featuring the show's stars attempting to contact the celebrity spirits, only to be frightened and run away. Finally, the episode also parodies children's beauty pageants and the tendency of stage mothers to become unhealthily obsessed with their children winning such contests.\n\nIn its original American broadcast on October 7, 2009, \"Dead Celebrities\" was watched by 2.67 million overall households, according to Nielsen ratings. It received a 1.8 rating/3 share, and a 1.5 rating/4 share among viewers aged between 18 and 49.\n\nThe episode received generally mixed reviews. Ramsley Isler of \"IGN\" called \"Dead Celebrities\" one of the best episodes of the season, adding the jokes at the expense of the deceased were not too tasteless. He praised the parodies of \"The Sixth Sense\", \"Poltergeist\" and \"Ghost Hunters\", but said some jokes, like the masturbating judges at the children's beauty contest, were offensive and unfunny. Jason Hawes and Grant Wilson, stars of \"Ghost Hunters\", declared that \"far from being offended or incensed [...] they loved being made fun of alongside Michael Jackson and Billy Mays. Carlos Delgado of \"iF Magazine\" said \"Dead Celebrities\" was an especially funny episode that also featured a \"crapload of story\" that was well-timed for the Halloween season. Josh Modell of \"The A.V. Club\" called it \"a decent episode\", but felt the dead celebrities were too obvious targets for \"South Park\" satire, adding, \"It's easy to make the same jokes that the rest of the world already has.\" Modell said the \"Sixth Sense\" and \"Poltergeist\" references \"fell a little flat\", but he praised the Chipotle subplot, which he called \"beautifully random [and] totally ridiculous\". Ken Tucker of \"Entertainment Weekly\" said the episode was in bad taste, but added, \"I laughed until I choked\". Tucker described the Michael Jackson impersonation as \"first-rate\" and felt the solution to freeing Jackson's spirit served as \"a ruthless parody of child beauty pageants\".\n\nIngela Ratledge of \"TV Guide\" favorably described the episode as the exact opposite of award show segments that reverentially pay homage to the year's departed celebrities, calling it \"a wonderfully tasteless farewell.\" Sue Bergerstein, an arts and celebrity writer with \"Examiner.com\", called \"Dead Celebrities\" a \"new low\" for \"South Park\", adding \"It's not only tasteless but this episode just adds to the sadness currently experienced by all the mourning relatives.\" \"Newsweek\" writer Joshua Alston said few of the jokes in \"Dead Celebrities\" were funny, and so the mocking of celebrities \"in the absence of laughs, felt tasteless and unnecessary\". Alan Sepinwall, television journalist with \"The Star-Ledger\", said many of the episodes seemed rehashed and predictable, especially those targeting Michael Jackson and children's beauty pageants. Sepinwall added he liked the Chipotle subplot, but commented, \"Overall, 'Dead Celebrities' was a misfire.\"\nMitch Norton of the SLC Cartoon Analysis found the episode to be extremely funny. \"Genius is not only found in the reference to the deaths of celebrities, but creates a new way to view death as a way to live on. We can view death as the end, or a new beginning to something else.\"\n\n\"Dead Celebrities\", along with the thirteen other episodes from \"South Park\"'s thirteenth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set and two-disc Blu-ray set in the United States on March 16, 2010. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode, a collection of deleted scenes, and a special mini-feature \"Inside Xbox: A Behind-the-Scenes Tour of South Park Studios\", which discussed the process behind animating the show with \"Inside Xbox\" host Major Nelson.\n\nA deleted scene from this episode is included on the complete thirteenth season DVD and Blu-ray Disc sets. It shows the boys taking Michael Jackson (in Ike's body) to the Glendale location of Forest Lawn Memorial-Parks & Mortuaries to prove he is dead. When they reach the grave, Jackson denies it and Kyle attempts to show him by taking a shovel and digging his grave. Stan at first opposes but he, with Cartman and Kenny take shovels and the scene ends with the boys digging Jackson's grave to show he is dead while Ike/Jackson dances. Jackson's grave shows his date of death as July 25, 2009, when in fact he died on June 25.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9793466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9793466", "title": "Drift seed", "text": "Drift seed\n\nDrift seeds (also sea beans) and drift fruits are seeds and fruits adapted for long distance dispersal by water. Most are produced by tropical trees, and they can be found on distant beaches after drifting thousands of miles through ocean currents. This method of propagation has helped many species of plant such as the Coconut colonize and establish themselves on previously barren islands. Consequently, drift seeds and fruits are of interest to scientists who study these currents.\n\nIn botanical terminology, a drift fruit is a kind of diaspore, and drift seeds and fruits are disseminules.\n\n\n\nEnthusiasts founded an annual convention in 1996, the International Sea-bean Symposium, dedicated to the display, study, and dissemination of information concerning drift seeds and other flotsam.\n"}
{"id": "14556061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14556061", "title": "Energy Research Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences", "text": "Energy Research Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences\n\nFounded in July 1985, the Energy Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (ERIRAS) was originally an outgrowth of the general energy department at Institute for High Temperatures RAS (IVTAN). The staff at the newly formed organization comprised professionals gathered from other scientific organizations. At the time of its creation, ERIRAS’ challenge was to develop the basic content and quantitative substantiation for the Energy Program of the USSR. The first director of ERIRAS was Lev Aleksandrovich Milentyev, an Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences. At present, Academician Aleksei Aleksandrovich Makarov is the director of the Institute. \n\nThe Institute employs approximately 80 staff members, of whom 65% are highly skilled specialists. It comprises eight scientific departments: \n\n\nThe Institute deploys a matrix organizational structure in order to maximize flexibility. Thus, different departments can work together jointly and each can be modified according to the circumstances.\n\nThe Institute’s mission is to find solutions to a wide range of contemporary challenges including: \nefficient energy production and consumption techniques to promote energy savings; appropriate pricing mechanisms for energy markets; and legislation, tax policy and other general issues related to domestic energy policy.\n\nERIRAS work is divided into the following research areas:\n\n\nThe Institute’s work is based on complex mathematical modeling, a unique database, and advanced computer technologies.\n\nToday, ERIRAS is a major scientific center that is at the forefront of fundamental and applied research. The knowledge produced by ERIRAS provides the basis for energy development forecasting and policy in Russia, the CIS, and for international energy markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "30695825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30695825", "title": "Esteban de Luca", "text": "Esteban de Luca\n\nEsteban de Luca (August 2, 1786 — May 17, 1824) was an Argentine military officer, poet, and government official during the nation's early years.\n\nEsteban de Luca y Patrón was born in Buenos Aires. His mother belonged to a wealthy creole family, and his Italian father was a colonial administrator during the Viceroyalty of Río de la Plata. Educated at the Royal College of San Carlos, de Luca enlisted in the newly formed Patricios Regiment during the British invasions of the Río de la Plata of 1806 and 1807, and attained the rank of Officer.\n\nShortly after these incidents, in which the invasions were thwarted, de Luca enrolled in the School of Mathematics established by Manuel Belgrano, and became a skilled weapons engineer. He adapted designs for cannons, munitions, and rifles, copying these latter from weapons captured during the earlier conflict.\n\nThe May Revolution of 1810 prompted the wars for independence. The United Provinces of South America struggled to supply their troops, however, and in 1813, the Buenos Aires Munitions Works were established by the Primera Junta regime; de Luca was appointed director of the facility in 1814. One of only two such facilities (the other being in Tucumán), the munitions works forged guns, carbines, sabers, cannon, ordnance, and horseshoes mainly with salvaged scrap iron and de Luca's adaptations.\n\nDe Luca was also an accomplished poet. He wrote, among other works, odes to General José de San Martín, as well to his victories in the battles of Chacabuco, Maipú, San Martín's Liberation of Peru, and in eulogy to General Manuel Belgrano; his \"Marcha Patriótica\" was, from 1812 to 1813, the unofficial Argentine National Anthem.\n\nWith the dissolution of the United Province, he put the munitions works at the service of the Province of Buenos Aires, and although these were destroyed shortly afterward in the Battle of Cepeda (1820), de Luca salvaged the facility and maintained it, albeit at minimal levels. A charge brought against him several months later of complicity in a plot by General Carlos María de Alvear against Governor Martín Rodríguez resulted in de Luca's acquittal; the factory, however, closed.\nHe was among the founders of the Buenos Aires Literary Society in 1822, and wrote for the two leading Buenos Aires periodicals of the time, \"La Abeja\" and \"El Argos\". De Luca's columns advocated at length for the westward expansion into the pampas, and he became known also for his translations of works by Italian dramatist Vittorio Alfieri (numerous of whose plays were then produced in Buenos Aires).\n\nDe Luca was appointed secretary to diplomatic envoy Valentín Gómez, who in 1823 was entrusted to negotiate for the return of the \"Banda Oriental\" (Uruguay) by the Empire of Brazil. As they returned from a May 1824 round of talks in Rio de Janeiro, the brigantine carrying them sank, and although Gómez survived, Esteban de Luca drowned in the Río de la Plata at age 37.\n\nHis home in Buenos Aires' San Telmo ward, the \"Casa de Esteban de Luca\", was declared a National Historic Monument in 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13607524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13607524", "title": "Every Race Has a Flag but the Coon", "text": "Every Race Has a Flag but the Coon\n\n\"Every Race Has a Flag but the Coon\" was a song written by Will A. Heelan, and J. Fred Helf that was popular in the United States and the United Kingdom. The song followed the previous success of \"All Coons Look Alike to Me\", written in 1896 by Ernest Hogan. H. L. Mencken cites it as being one of the three coon songs which \"firmly established the term \"coon\" in the American vocabulary\".\n\nThe song was a musical hit of the day by A. M. Rothschild and Company in 1901. New York's Siegel Cooper Company referred to it as one of his greatest hits in April a year later. The next month it was sung during \"Music on the Piers\" in New York, being the first song played at the Metropolitan Avenue pier. In his book \"The Movies That Changed Us: Reflections on the Screen\", Nick Clooney refers to the song as part of the \"hit parade\" of popular music one could use to measure the temper of the times when \"The Birth of a Nation\" premiered in 1915. The tune is repeatedly referred to in the literature as having the ability to incite violence merely by whistling it in the direction of an African American. It was also Marie Dressler's contribution to the 'coon' genre. Lottie Gilson, Williams and Walker, Frances Curran, Hodges and Launchmere, Libby and Bennett, Zoa Matthews, Johnnie Carroll, Clarice Vance, Gerie Gilson, Joe Bonnell, The Eldridges and \"100 other artists\" sang the song with \"overwhelming success\" according to its sheet music.\n\nThe song motivated the creation of the Pan-African flag in 1920 by the members of the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League. \nIn a 1927 report of a 1921 speech appearing in the \"Negro World\" weekly newspaper, Marcus Garvey was quoted as saying,\nThe lyrics to \"Every Race Has a Flag but the Coon\" include the musical meme \"four eleven forty four\".\n\n"}
{"id": "558812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558812", "title": "Extraterrestrial hypothesis", "text": "Extraterrestrial hypothesis\n\nThe extraterrestrial hypothesis (ETH) proposes that some unidentified flying objects (UFOs) are best explained as being physical spacecraft occupied by extraterrestrial life or non-human aliens, or non occupied alien probes from other planets visiting Earth.\n\nOrigins of the term \"extraterrestrial hypothesis\" are unknown, but use in printed material on UFOs seems to date to at least the latter half of the 1960s. French ufologist Jacques Vallée used it in his 1966 book \"Challenge to science: the UFO enigma\". It was used in a publication by French engineer Aimé Michel in 1967, by James E. McDonald in a symposium in March 1968 and again by McDonald and James Harder while testifying before the Congressional Committee on Science and Astronautics, in July 1968. Skeptic Philip J. Klass used it in his 1968 book \"UFOs--Identified.\" In 1969 physicist Edward Condon defined the \"extraterrestrial hypothesis\" or \"ETH\" as the \"idea that \"some\" UFOs may be spacecraft sent to Earth from another civilization or space other than Earth, or on a planet associated with a more distant star,\" while presenting the findings of the much debated Condon Report. Some UFO historians credit Condon with popularizing the term and its abbreviation \"ETH\".\n\nAlthough ETH as a word is a comparatively new concept, one which owes much to the \"flying saucer sightings\" of the 1940s–1960s, its origins can be traced back to a number of earlier events, such as the now-discredited Martian canals and ancient Martian civilization promoted by astronomer Percival Lowell, popular culture including the writings of H. G. Wells and fellow science fiction pioneers such as Edgar Rice Burroughs, who likewise wrote of Martian civilizations, and even to the works of figures such as the Swedish philosopher, mystic and scientist Emanuel Swedenborg, who promoted a variety of unconventional views that linked other worlds to the afterlife.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, Charles Fort collected accounts of anomalous physical phenomena from newspapers and scientific journals, including many reports of extraordinary aerial objects. These were published in 1919 in \"The Book of the Damned\". In this and two subsequent books, \"New Lands\" (1923) and \"Lo!\" (1931), Fort theorized that visitors from other worlds were observing Earth. Fort's reports of aerial phenomena were frequently cited in American newspapers when the UFO phenomenon first attracted widespread media attention in June and July 1947.\n\nThe modern ETH—specifically, the implicit linking of unidentified aircraft and lights in the sky to alien life—took root during the late 1940s and took its current form during the 1950s. It drew on pseudoscience, as well as popular culture. Unlike earlier speculation of extraterrestrial life, interest in the ETH was also bolstered by many unexplained sightings investigated by the U.S. government and governments of other countries, as well as private civilian groups, such as NICAP and APRO.\n\nAn early example of speculation over extraterrestrial visitors can be found in the French newspaper \"Le Pays\", which on June 17, 1864, published a story about two American geologists who had allegedly discovered an alien-like creature, a mummified three-foot-tall hairless humanoid with a trunk-like appendage on its forehead, inside a hollow egg-shaped structure.\n\nH. G. Wells, in his 1898 science fiction classic The War of the Worlds, popularized the idea of Martian visitation and invasion. Even before Wells, there was a sudden upsurge in reports in \"Mystery airships\" in the U.S. For example, the Washington \"Times\" in 1897 speculated that the airships were \"a reconnoitering party from Mars\" and the Saint Louis \"Post-Dispatch\" wrote, \"these may be visitors from Mars, fearful, at the last, of invading the planet they have been seeking.\" Later there was a more international airship wave from 1909-1912. An example of an extraterrestrial explanation at the time was a 1909 letter to a New Zealand newspaper suggesting \"atomic powered spaceships from Mars.\"\n\nFrom the 1920s the idea of alien visitation in space ships was commonplace in popular comic strips and radio and movie serials such as Buck Rogers and Flash Gordon. In particular, Flash Gordon serials have Earth being attacked from space by alien meteors, ray beams, and biological weapons. In 1938 a radio broadcast version \" of The War of the Worlds\" by Orson Welles, using a contemporary setting for H. G. Wells' Martian invasion, created some public panic in the United States.\n\nOn June 24, 1947, at about 3:00 p.m. local time, pilot Kenneth Arnold reported seeing nine unidentified disk-shaped aircraft flying near Mount Rainier. When no aircraft emerged that seemed to account for what he had seen, Arnold quickly considered the possibility of the objects being extraterrestrial. On July 7, 1947, two stories came out where Arnold was raising the topic of possible extraterrestrial origins, both as his opinion and those who had written to him. In an Associated Press story, Arnold said he had received quantities of fan mail eager to help solve the mystery. Some of them \"suggested the discs were visitations from another planet.\"\n\nWhen the 1947 flying saucer wave hit the U.S., there was much speculation in the newspapers about what they might be in news stories, columns, editorials, and letters to the editor. For example, on July 10, U.S. Senator Glen Taylor of Idaho commented, \"I almost wish the flying saucers would turn out to be space ships from another planet,\" because the possibility of hostility \"would unify the people of the earth as nothing else could.\" On July 8, Dewitt Miller was quoted by UP saying that the saucers had been seen since the early nineteenth century. If the present discs weren’t secret Army weapons, he suggested they could be vehicles from Mars or other planets or maybe even \"things out of other dimensions of time and space.\" Other articles brought up the work of Charles Fort, who earlier in the 20th Century had documented numerous reports of unidentified flying objects that had been written up in newspapers and scientific journals.\n\nEven if people thought the saucers were real, most were generally unwilling to leap to the conclusion that they were extraterrestrial in origin. Various popular theories began to quickly proliferate in press articles, such as secret military projects, Russian spy devices, hoaxes, optical illusions, and mass hysteria. According to Murrow, the ETH as a serious explanation for \"flying saucers\" did not earn widespread attention until about 18 months after Arnold's sighting.\n\nThese attitudes seem to be reflected in the results of the first US poll of public UFO perceptions released by Gallup on August 14, 1947. The term \"flying saucer\" was familiar to 90% of the respondents. As to what people thought explained them, the poll further showed that most people either held no opinion or refused to answer the question (33%), or generally believed that there was a mundane explanation. 29% thought they were optical illusions, mirages or imagination, 15% a US secret weapon, 10% a hoax, 3% a “weather forecasting device”, 1% of Soviet origin, and 9% had “other explanations”, including fulfillment of Biblical prophecy, secret commercial aircraft, or related to atomic testing.\n\nOn July 9, Army Air Forces Intelligence began a secret study of the best saucer reports, including Arnold's. A follow-up study by the Air Materiel Command intelligence and engineering departments at Wright Field Ohio led to the formation the U.S. Air Force's Project Sign at the end of 1947, the first official U.S. military UFO study.\n\nIn 1948, Project Sign wrote their Estimate of the Situation, which concluded that the remaining unidentified sightings were best explained by the ETH. The report ultimately was rejected by the USAF Chief of Staff, General Hoyt Vandenberg, citing a lack of physical evidence, and its existence was not publicly disclosed until 1956 by later Project Blue Book director Edward J. Ruppelt. Ruppelt also indicated that Vandenberg dismantled Project Sign after they wrote their ETH conclusion. With this official policy in place, all subsequent public Air Force reports concluded that there was either insufficient evidence to link UFOs and ETH, or that UFOs did not warrant investigation.\n\nImmediately following the great UFO wave of 1952 and military debunking of the radar and visual sightings plus jet interceptions over Washington, D.C. in August, the CIA’s Office of Scientific Investigation took particular interest in UFOs. Though the ETH was mentioned, it was generally given little credence. However, others within the CIA, such as the Psychological Strategy Board, were more concerned about how an unfriendly power such as the Soviet Union might use UFOs for psychological warfare purposes, exploit the gullibility of the public for the sensational, and clog intelligence channels. Under a directive from the National Security Council to review the problem, in January 1953, the CIA organized the Robertson Panel, a group of scientists who quickly reviewed the Blue Book’s best evidence, including motion pictures and an engineering report that concluded that the performance characteristics were beyond that of earthly craft. After two days' review, all cases were claimed to have conventional explanations. An official policy of public debunkery was recommended using the mass media and authority figures in order to influence public opinion and reduce the number of UFO reports.\n\nThe early 1950s also saw a number of movies depicting flying saucers and aliens, including \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" (1951), \"The War of the Worlds\", \"Earth vs. the Flying Saucers\" (1956), and \"Forbidden Planet\" (1956). Despite this, public belief in ETH seems to have remained low during the early 1950s, even among those reporting UFOs. A poll published in \"Popular Science\" magazine, in August 1951, showed that 52% of UFO witnesses questioned believed that they had seen a man-made aircraft, while only 4% believed that they had seen an alien craft. However, an additional 28% were uncertain, with more than half of these stating they believed they were either man-made aircraft or \"visitors from afar\". Thus the total number of UFO witnesses who considered the ETH viable was approximately 20%. Within a few years, belief in ETH had increased due to the activities of people such as retired U.S. Marine Corps officer Maj. Donald E. Keyhoe, who campaigned to raise public awareness of the UFO phenomenon. By 1957, 25% of Americans responded that they either believed, or were willing to believe, in ETH, while 53% responded that they were not (though a majority of these respondents indicated they thought UFOs to be real but of earthly origin). 22% said that they were uncertain.\n\nDuring this time, the ETH proponents fragmented into distinct camps, each believing slightly different variations of the hypothesis. The \"contactees\" of the early 1950s said that the \"space brothers\" they met were peaceful and benevolent, but by the mid-1960s, a number of alleged alien abductions; including that of Betty and Barney Hill, and of the apparent mutilation of cattle cast the ETH in more sinister terms.\n\nOpinion polls indicate that public belief in the ETH has continued to rise since then. For example, a 1997 Gallup poll of the U.S. public indicated that 87% knew about UFOs, 48% believed them to be real (vs. 33% who thought them to be imaginary), and 45% believed UFOs had visited Earth. Similarly a Roper poll from 2002 found 56% thought UFOs to be real and 48% thought UFOs had visited Earth.\n\nPolls also indicate that the public believe even more strongly that the government is suppressing evidence about UFOs. For example, in both the cited Gallup and Roper polls, the figure was about 80%.\n\nSupport for the extraterrestrial hypothesis in the last decade has seen a decline as the proliferation of smartphone camera technology across the population has not led to a significant increase in recorded UFO sightings. This goes counter to the predictions of supporters of the extraterrestrial hypothesis, even causing a crisis of confidence among some within the informal UFO research community.\n\nThe scientific community has shown very little support for the ETH, and has largely accepted the explanation that reports of UFOs are the result of people misinterpreting common objects or phenomena, or are the work of hoaxers. Professor Stephen Hawking has expressed skepticism about the ETH. In a 1969 lecture, U.S. astrophysicist Carl Sagan said:\n\nSimilarly, British astrophysicist Peter A. Sturrock wrote\n\nAn informal poll done by Sturrock in 1973 of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics members found that about 10% of them believed that UFOs were vehicles from outer space. In another informal poll conducted in 1977 by astrophysicist Peter A. Sturrock, he surveyed members of the American Astronomical Society. Sturrock asked polled scientists to assign probabilities to eight possible explanations for UFOs. The results were:\n\nThe primary scientific arguments against ETH were summarized by astronomer and UFO researcher J. Allen Hynek during a presentation at the 1983 MUFON Symposium, where he outlined seven key reasons why he could not accept the ETH.\n\n\nHynek argued that:\n\n\nAccording to Hynek, points 1 through 6 could be argued, but point 7 represented an insurmountable barrier to the validity of the ETH.\n\nNASA frequently fields questions in regard to the ETH and UFOs. As of 2006, its official standpoint was that ETH has a lack of empirical evidence.\n\nDespite public interest, NASA considers the study of ETH to be irrelevant to its work because of the number of false leads that a study would provide, and the limited amount of usable scientific data that it would yield.\n\nA frequent concept in ufology and popular culture is that the true extent of information about UFOs is being suppressed by some form of conspiracy of silence, or by an official cover-up that is acting to conceal information.\n\nIn 1968, American engineer James Harder argued that significant evidence existed to prove UFOs \"beyond reasonable doubt,\" but that the evidence had been suppressed and largely neglected by scientists and the general public, thus preventing sound conclusions from being reached on the ETH.\n\nA survey carried out by Industrial Research magazine in 1971 showed that more Americans believed the government was concealing information about UFOs (76%) than believed in the existence of UFOs (54%), or in ETH itself (32%).\n\nOther private or governmental studies, some secret, have concluded in favor of the ETH, or have had members who disagreed with official conclusions against the conclusion by committees and agencies to which they belonged. The following are examples of sources that have focused specifically on the topic:\n\nIn November 2011, the White House released an official response to two petitions asking the U.S. government to acknowledge formally that aliens have visited Earth and to disclose any intentional withholding of government interactions with extraterrestrial beings. According to the response, \"The U.S. government has no evidence that any life exists outside our planet, or that an extraterrestrial presence has contacted or engaged any member of the human race.\" Also, according to the response, there is \"no credible information to suggest that any evidence is being hidden from the public's eye.\" The response further noted that efforts, like SETI, the Kepler space telescope and the NASA Mars rover, continue looking for signs of life. The response noted \"odds are pretty high\" that there may be life on other planets but \"the odds of us making contact with any of them—especially any intelligent ones—are extremely small, given the distances involved.\"\n"}
{"id": "14933862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14933862", "title": "Fade Goff", "text": "Fade Goff\n\nFade Goff (September 17, 1780 – January 6, 1836) was a land agent and political figure in Prince Edward Island. He represented Georgetown in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island from 1812 to 1818.\n\nHe was born in Bryanstown, County Wexford, Ireland, the son of Richard Goff. In 1809, he married Mary Somaindyke Ryan, the daughter of John Ryan. That same year, he emigrated to St. John's in Newfoundland to join his father-in-law. There he met John Stewart who hired Goff as his agent for his property in Prince Edward Island and he moved to the island the following year. Goff also later became agent for George and Alexander Birnie. He found that the role of land agent left him in a position of permanent financial obligation to his employers. He attempted to profit by other activities, such as operating a flour mill and an emigration office, without much success. In 1813, he was named coroner and clerk of the crown by William Townshend, colonial administrator. Goff also was named a justice of the peace and was appointed high sheriff in 1831. He was named to the colony's Council in 1832. He died at Erinvale in Lot 34 after a lengthy illness.\n\nHis son John also served in the provincial assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "15892980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15892980", "title": "Finno-Ugrian suicide hypothesis", "text": "Finno-Ugrian suicide hypothesis\n\nThe Finno-Ugrian suicide hypothesis proposes to link genetic ties originating among Finno-Ugric cultures and ethnicities to high rate of suicide, claiming an allele common among them is responsible.\n\nMari and Udmurts have been found to have a three times higher suicide rate than Finns and Hungarians. It has been thus theorized that such a possible allele may have arisen in those populations.\n\nHowever, contrary to the hypothesis, available contemporary (1990–1994) suicide rates were uniformly negatively associated with these ancestry proportions. The findings of this first test outside Europe are therefore conflicting. A proposal based on the geographical study approach is offered to further the progress of investigations into the genetics of suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39535835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39535835", "title": "García Álvarez (alférez)", "text": "García Álvarez (alférez)\n\nGarcía Álvarez (died 1108?) was the \"alférez\", or commander of the royal military household, under King Alfonso VI of León and Castile from 1100/2 to 1107. He was the son of Álvar Díaz de Oca and a member of one of the leading families of Castile.\n\nGarcía may have died at the battle of Uclés on 29 May 1108. He does not appear in any contemporary records after 27 December 1107, but this may be simply because he had been replaced in the important post of \"alférez\" by Pedro González de Lara. In any case, he died around this time, shortly after his own father.\n\nThe 13th-century historian Lucas of Tuy, in his \"Chronicon mundi\", reports that \"King Alfonso [VI] gravely offended the Castilian count García de Cabrera and in order to placate the same gave him his sister Elvira as a wife and pacified the whole kingdom that was in rebellion.\" Since the title of count was rare in Castile in the late 11th century and the only known count of the name, García Ordóñez, could not be whom Lucas meant, it has been surmised that García Álvarez is meant, and that Lucas is using the term \"count\" loosely to mean \"magnate\". If this is the case, then García was married to Elvira of Toro. Another 13th-century history, \"De rebus Hispaniae\", records that García was the guardian of the king's son and heir, Sancho Alfónsez, and died defending him at Uclés.\n"}
{"id": "49656013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49656013", "title": "Ge Cunzhuang", "text": "Ge Cunzhuang\n\nGe Cunzhuang ) was a Chinese actor. He won the Golden Rooster Award for Best Supporting Actor in 1998, for \"Zhou Enlai, A Great Friend\". On 4 March 2016, he died at the age of 87.\n\nGe You is his son.\n"}
{"id": "2291204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291204", "title": "Genetically modified crops", "text": "Genetically modified crops\n\nGenetically modified crops (GM crops or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering methods. In most cases, the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species. Examples in food crops include resistance to certain pests, diseases, or environmental conditions, reduction of spoilage, or resistance to chemical treatments (e.g. resistance to a herbicide), or improving the nutrient profile of the crop. Examples in non-food crops include production of pharmaceutical agents, biofuels, and other industrially useful goods, as well as for bioremediation.\n\nFarmers have widely adopted GM technology. It is the fastest adopted crop technology in the world. Acreage increased from 1.7 million hectares in 1996 to 185.1 million hectares in 2016, some 12% of global cropland. As of 2016, major crop (soybean, maize, canola and cotton) traits consist of herbicide tolerance (95.9 million hectares) insect resistance (25.2 million hectares), or both (58.5 million hectares). In 2015, 53.6 million ha of GM maize were under cultivation (almost 1/3 of the maize crop). GM maize outperformed its predecessors: yield was 5.6 to 24.5% higher with less mycotoxins (−28.8%), fumonisin (−30.6%) and thricotecens (−36.5%). Non-target organisms were unaffected, except for \"Braconidae\", represented by a parasitoid of European corn borer, the target of \"Lepidoptera\" active Bt maize. Biogeochemical parameters such as lignin content did not vary, while biomass decomposition was higher.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis concluded that GM technology adoption had reduced chemical pesticide use by 37%, increased crop yields by 22%, and increased farmer profits by 68%. This reduction in pesticide use has been ecologically beneficial, but benefits may be reduced by overuse. Yield gains and pesticide reductions are larger for insect-resistant crops than for herbicide-tolerant crops. Yield and profit gains are higher in developing countries than in developed countries.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nHowever, opponents have objected to GM crops on grounds including environmental impacts, food safety, whether GM crops are needed to address food needs, whether they are sufficiently accessible to farmers in developing countries and concerns over subjecting crops to intellectual property law. Safety concerns led 38 countries, including 19 in Europe, to officially prohibit their cultivation.\nMultiple natural mechanisms allow gene flow from one species to another. These occur in nature on a large scale – for example, it is one mechanism for the development of antibiotic resistance in bacteria. This is facilitated by transposons, retrotransposons, retroviruses, proviruses and other mobile genetic elements that naturally translocate DNA to new loci in a genome. Movement occurs over an evolutionary time scale.\n\nTraditional crop breeders have long introduced foreign germplasm into crops by creating novel crosses. A hybrid cereal grain was created in 1875, by crossing wheat and rye. Since then traits including dwarfing genes and rust resistance have been introduced in that manner. Plant tissue culture and deliberate mutations have enabled humans to alter the makeup of plant genomes.\n\nThe term genetic engineering is applied to genetic modifications made using biotechnology. The first plant produced in that way came in 1982, an antibiotic-resistant tobacco plant. The first field trials occurred in France and the USA in 1986, using tobacco plants engineered for herbicide resistance. In 1987, Plant Genetic Systems (Ghent, Belgium), founded by Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell, was the first company to genetically engineer insect-resistant (tobacco) plants by incorporating genes that produced insecticidal proteins from \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt).\n\nThe People's Republic of China was the first country to allow commercialized transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992, which was withdrawn in 1997. The first genetically modified crop approved for sale in the U.S., in 1994, was the \"FlavrSavr\" tomato. It had a longer shelf life, because it took longer to soften after ripening.<ref name=\"doi10.3733/ca.v054n04p6\"></ref> In 1994, the European Union approved tobacco engineered to tolerate the herbicide bromoxynil, making it the first commercially genetically engineered crop marketed in Europe.\n\nIn 1995, Bt Potato was approved by the US Environmental Protection Agency, making it the country's first-pesticide producing crop. In 1995 canola with modified oil composition (Calgene), Bt maize (Ciba-Geigy), bromoxynil-tolerant cotton (Calgene), Bt cotton (Monsanto), glyphosate-tolerant soybeans (Monsanto), virus-tolerant squash (Asgrow), and additional delayed ripening tomatoes (DNAP, Zeneca/Peto and Monsanto) were approved. As of mid-1996, 35 approvals had been granted to commercially grow 8 transgenic crops and one flower crop (carnation), with 8 different traits in 6 countries plus the EU. In 2000, Vitamin A-enriched golden rice was developed, though as of 2016 it was not yet in commercial production.\n\nIn 2013 the leaders of the three research teams that first applied genetic engineering to crops, Robert Fraley, Marc Van Montagu and Mary-Dell Chilton, were awarded the World Food Prize for improving the \"quality, quantity or availability\" of food in the world.\n\nIn the US, by 2014, 94% of the planted area of soybeans, 96% of cotton and 93% of corn were genetically modified varieties. In developing countries, about 18 million farmers planted 54% of GM crops worldwide by 2013.\n\nGenetically engineered crops have genes added or removed using genetic engineering techniques, originally including gene guns, electroporation, microinjection and agrobacterium. More recently, CRISPR and TALEN offered much more precise and convenient editing techniques.\n\nGene guns (also known as biolistics) \"shoot\" (direct high energy particles or radiations against) target genes into plant cells. It is the most common method. DNA is bound to tiny particles of gold or tungsten which are subsequently shot into plant tissue or single plant cells under high pressure. The accelerated particles penetrate both the cell wall and membranes. The DNA separates from the metal and is integrated into plant DNA inside the nucleus. This method has been applied successfully for many cultivated crops, especially monocots like wheat or maize, for which transformation using \"Agrobacterium tumefaciens\" has been less successful. The major disadvantage of this procedure is that serious damage can be done to the cellular tissue.\n\n\"Agrobacterium tumefaciens-\"mediated transformation is another common technique. Agrobacteria are natural plant parasites. Their natural ability to transfer genes provides another engineering method. To create a suitable environment for themselves, these Agrobacteria insert their genes into plant hosts, resulting in a proliferation of modified plant cells near the soil level (crown gall). The genetic information for tumor growth is encoded on a mobile, circular DNA fragment (plasmid). When \"Agrobacterium\" infects a plant, it transfers this T-DNA to a random site in the plant genome. When used in genetic engineering the bacterial T-DNA is removed from the bacterial plasmid and replaced with the desired foreign gene. The bacterium is a vector, enabling transportation of foreign genes into plants. This method works especially well for dicotyledonous plants like potatoes, tomatoes, and tobacco. Agrobacteria infection is less successful in crops like wheat and maize.\n\nElectroporation is used when the plant tissue does not contain cell walls. In this technique, \"DNA enters the plant cells through miniature pores which are temporarily caused by electric pulses.\"\n\nMicroinjection is used to directly inject foreign DNA into cells.\n\nPlant scientists, backed by results of modern comprehensive profiling of crop composition, point out that crops modified using GM techniques are less likely to have unintended changes than are conventionally bred crops.\n\nIn research tobacco and \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" are the most frequently modified plants, due to well-developed transformation methods, easy propagation and well studied genomes. They serve as model organisms for other plant species.\n\nIntroducing new genes into plants requires a promoter specific to the area where the gene is to be expressed. For instance, to express a gene only in rice grains and not in leaves, an endosperm-specific promoter is used. The codons of the gene must be optimized for the organism due to codon usage bias.\n\nTransgenic plants have genes inserted into them that are derived from another species. The inserted genes can come from species within the same kingdom (plant to plant) or between kingdoms (for example, bacteria to plant). In many cases the inserted DNA has to be modified slightly in order to correctly and efficiently express in the host organism. Transgenic plants are used to express proteins like the cry toxins from \"B. thuringiensis\", herbicide resistant genes, antibodies and antigens for vaccinations A study led by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) found also viral genes in transgenic plants.\n\nTransgenic carrots have been used to produce the drug Taliglucerase alfa which is used to treat Gaucher's disease. In the laboratory, transgenic plants have been modified to increase photosynthesis (currently about 2% at most plants versus the theoretic potential of 9–10%). This is possible by changing the rubisco enzyme (i.e. changing C3 plants into C4 plants), by placing the rubisco in a carboxysome, by adding pumps in the cell wall, by changing the leaf form/size. Plants have been engineered to exhibit bioluminescence that may become a sustainable alternative to electric lighting.\n\nCisgenic plants are made using genes found within the same species or a closely related one, where conventional plant breeding can occur. Some breeders and scientists argue that cisgenic modification is useful for plants that are difficult to crossbreed by conventional means (such as potatoes), and that plants in the cisgenic category should not require the same regulatory scrutiny as transgenics.\n\nGenetically modified plants can also be developed using gene knockdown or gene knockout to alter the genetic makeup of a plant without incorporating genes from other plants. In 2014, Chinese researcher Gao Caixia filed patents on the creation of a strain of wheat that is resistant to powdery mildew. The strain lacks genes that encode proteins that repress defenses against the mildew. The researchers deleted all three copies of the genes from wheat's hexaploid genome. Gao used the TALENs and CRISPR gene editing tools without adding or changing any other genes. No field trials were immediately planned. The CRISPR technique has also been used to modify white button mushrooms (\"Agaricus bisporus\").\n\nWith multiple trait integration, several new traits may be integrated into a new crop.\n\nGM food's economic value to farmers is one of its major benefits, including in developing nations. A 2010 study found that Bt corn provided economic benefits of $6.9 billion over the previous 14 years in five Midwestern states. The majority ($4.3 billion) accrued to farmers producing non-Bt corn. This was attributed to European corn borer populations reduced by exposure to Bt corn, leaving fewer to attack conventional corn nearby. Agriculture economists calculated that \"world surplus [increased by] $240.3 million for 1996. Of this total, the largest share (59%) went to U.S. farmers. Seed company Monsanto received the next largest share (21%), followed by US consumers (9%), the rest of the world (6%), and the germplasm supplier, Delta & Pine Land Company of Mississippi (5%).\"\n\nAccording to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), in 2014 approximately 18 million farmers grew biotech crops in 28 countries; about 94% of the farmers were resource-poor in developing countries. 53% of the global biotech crop area of 181.5 million hectares was grown in 20 developing countries. PG Economics comprehensive 2012 study concluded that GM crops increased farm incomes worldwide by $14 billion in 2010, with over half this total going to farmers in developing countries.\n\nCritics challenged the claimed benefits to farmers over the prevalence of biased observers and by the absence of randomized controlled trials. The main Bt crop grown by small farmers in developing countries is cotton. A 2006 review of Bt cotton findings by agricultural economists concluded, \"the overall balance sheet, though promising, is mixed. Economic returns are highly variable over years, farm type, and geographical location\".\n\nIn 2013 the European Academies Science Advisory Council (EASAC) asked the EU to allow the development of agricultural GM technologies to enable more sustainable agriculture, by employing fewer land, water, and nutrient resources. EASAC also criticizes the EU's \"time-consuming and expensive regulatory framework\" and said that the EU had fallen behind in the adoption of GM technologies.\n\nParticipants in agriculture business markets include seed companies, agrochemical companies, distributors, farmers, grain elevators and universities that develop new crops/traits and whose agricultural extensions advise farmers on best practices. According to a 2012 review based on data from the late 1990s and early 2000s, much of the GM crop grown each year is used for livestock feed and increased demand for meat leads to increased demand for GM feed crops. Feed grain usage as a percentage of total crop production is 70% for corn and more than 90% of oil seed meals such as soybeans. About 65 million metric tons of GM corn grains and about 70 million metric tons of soybean meals derived from GM soybean become feed.\n\nIn 2014 the global value of biotech seed was US$15.7 billion; US$11.3 billion (72%) was in industrial countries and US$4.4 billion (28%) was in the developing countries. In 2009, Monsanto had $7.3 billion in sales of seeds and from licensing its technology; DuPont, through its Pioneer subsidiary, was the next biggest company in that market. As of 2009, the overall Roundup line of products including the GM seeds represented about 50% of Monsanto's business.\n\nSome patents on GM traits have expired, allowing the legal development of generic strains that include these traits. For example, generic glyphosate-tolerant GM soybean is now available. Another impact is that traits developed by one vendor can be added to another vendor's proprietary strains, potentially increasing product choice and competition. The patent on the first type of \"Roundup Ready\" crop that Monsanto produced (soybeans) expired in 2014 and the first harvest of off-patent soybeans occurs in the spring of 2015. Monsanto has broadly licensed the patent to other seed companies that include the glyphosate resistance trait in their seed products. About 150 companies have licensed the technology, including Syngenta and DuPont Pioneer.\n\nIn 2014, the largest review yet concluded that GM crops' effects on farming were positive. The meta-analysis considered all published English-language examinations of the agronomic and economic impacts between 1995 and March 2014 for three major GM crops: soybean, maize, and cotton. The study found that herbicide-tolerant crops have lower production costs, while for insect-resistant crops the reduced pesticide use was offset by higher seed prices, leaving overall production costs about the same.\n\nYields increased 9% for herbicide tolerance and 25% for insect resistant varieties. Farmers who adopted GM crops made 69% higher profits than those who did not. The review found that GM crops help farmers in developing countries, increasing yields by 14 percentage points.\n\nThe researchers considered some studies that were not peer-reviewed and a few that did not report sample sizes. They attempted to correct for publication bias, by considering sources beyond academic journals. The large data set allowed the study to control for potentially confounding variables such as fertilizer use. Separately, they concluded that the funding source did not influence study results.\n\nGM crops grown today, or under development, have been modified with various traits. These traits include improved shelf life, disease resistance, stress resistance, herbicide resistance, pest resistance, production of useful goods such as biofuel or drugs, and ability to absorb toxins and for use in bioremediation of pollution.\n\nRecently, research and development has been targeted to enhancement of crops that are locally important in developing countries, such as insect-resistant cowpea for Africa and insect-resistant brinjal (eggplant).\n\nThe first genetically modified crop approved for sale in the U.S. was the \"FlavrSavr\" tomato, which had a longer shelf life. It is no longer on the market.\n\nIn November 2014, the USDA approved a GM potato that prevents bruising.\n\nIn February 2015 Arctic Apples were approved by the USDA, becoming the first genetically modified apple approved for US sale. Gene silencing was used to reduce the expression of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), thus preventing enzymatic browning of the fruit after it has been sliced open. The trait was added to Granny Smith and Golden Delicious varieties. The trait includes a bacterial antibiotic resistance gene that provides resistance to the antibiotic kanamycin. The genetic engineering involved cultivation in the presence of kanamycin, which allowed only resistant cultivars to survive. Humans consuming apples do not acquire kanamycin resistance, per arcticapple.com. The FDA approved the apples in March 2015.\n\nPlants use non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) to protect them from excessive amounts of sunlight. Plants can switch on the quenching mechanism almost instantaneously but it takes much longer for it to switch off again. During the time that it is switched off, the amount of energy that is wasted increases. A genetic modification in three genes allows to correct this (in a trial with tobacco plants). As a result, yields were 14-20% higher, in terms of the weight of the dry leaves harvested. The plants had bigger leaves, were taller and had more vigorous roots.\n\nAnother improvement that can be made on the photosynthesis process (with C3 pathway plants) is on photorespiration. By inserting the C4 pathway into C3 plants, productivity may increase by as much as 50% for cereal crops, such as rice.\n\nSome GM soybeans offer improved oil profiles for processing. Camelina sativa has been modified to produce plants that accumulate high levels of oils similar to fish oils.\n\nGolden rice, developed by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), provides greater amounts of vitamin A targeted at reducing vitamin A deficiency.<ref name=\"doi10.1038/news.2011.233\"></ref> As of January 2016, golden rice has not yet been grown commercially in any country.\n\nA genetically modified cassava under development offers lower cyanogen glucosides and enhanced protein and other nutrients (called BioCassava).\n\nIn November 2014, the USDA approved a potato that prevents bruising and produces less acrylamide when fried. They do not employ genes from non-potato species. The trait was added to the Russet Burbank, Ranger Russet and Atlantic varieties.\n\nPlants have been engineered to tolerate non-biological stressors, such as drought, frost, and high soil salinity. In 2011, Monsanto's DroughtGard maize became the first drought-resistant GM crop to receive US marketing approval.\n\nDrought resistance occurs by modifying the plant's genes responsible for the mechanism known as the crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM), which allows the plants to survive despite low water levels. This holds promise for water-heavy crops such as rice, wheat, soybeans and poplar to accelerate their adaptation to water-limited environments. Several salinity tolerance mechanisms have been identified in salt-tolerant crops. For example, rice, canola and tomato crops have been genetically modified to increase their tolerance to salt stress.\n\nAs of 1999, the most prevalent GM trait was glyphosate-tolerance. Glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup and other herbicide products) kills plants by interfering with the shikimate pathway in plants, which is essential for the synthesis of the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan. The shikimate pathway is not present in animals, which instead obtain aromatic amino acids from their diet. More specifically, glyphosate inhibits the enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS).\n\nThis trait was developed because the herbicides used on grain and grass crops at the time were highly toxic and not effective against narrow-leaved weeds. Thus, developing crops that could withstand spraying with glyphosate would both reduce environmental and health risks, and give an agricultural edge to the farmer.\n\nSome micro-organisms have a version of EPSPS that is resistant to glyphosate inhibition. One of these was isolated from an \"Agrobacterium\" strain CP4 (CP4 EPSPS) that was resistant to glyphosate. The CP4 EPSPS gene was engineered for plant expression by fusing the 5' end of the gene to a chloroplast transit peptide derived from the petunia EPSPS. This transit peptide was used because it had shown previously an ability to deliver bacterial EPSPS to the chloroplasts of other plants. This CP4 EPSPS gene was cloned and transfected into soybeans.\n\nThe plasmid used to move the gene into soybeans was PV-GMGTO4. It contained three bacterial genes, two CP4 EPSPS genes, and a gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS) from \"Escherichia coli\" as a marker. The DNA was injected into the soybeans using the particle acceleration method. Soybean cultivar A54O3 was used for the transformation.\n\nTobacco plants have been engineered to be resistant to the herbicide bromoxynil.\n\nCrops have been commercialized that are resistant to the herbicide glufosinate, as well. Crops engineered for resistance to multiple herbicides to allow farmers to use a mixed group of two, three, or four different chemicals are under development to combat growing herbicide resistance.\n\nIn October 2014 the US EPA registered Dow's Enlist Duo maize, which is genetically modified to be resistant to both glyphosate and 2,4-D, in six states. Inserting a bacterial aryloxyalkanoate dioxygenase gene, \"aad1\" makes the corn resistant to 2,4-D. The USDA had approved maize and soybeans with the mutation in September 2014.\n\nMonsanto has requested approval for a stacked strain that is tolerant of both glyphosate and dicamba. The request includes plans for avoiding herbicide drift to other crops. Significant damage to other non-resistant crops occurred from dicamba formulations intended to reduce volatilization drifting when sprayed on resistant soybeans in 2017. The newer dicamba formulation labels specify to not spray when average wind speeds are above to avoid particle drift, average wind speeds below to avoid temperature inversions, and rain or high temperatures are in the next day forecast. However, these conditions typically only occur during June and July for a few hours at a time.\n\nTobacco, corn, rice and some other crops have been engineered to express genes encoding for insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). The introduction of Bt crops during the period between 1996 and 2005 has been estimated to have reduced the total volume of insecticide active ingredient use in the United States by over 100 thousand tons. This represents a 19.4% reduction in insecticide use.\n\nIn the late 1990s, a genetically modified potato that was resistant to the Colorado potato beetle was withdrawn because major buyers rejected it, fearing consumer opposition.\n\nPapaya, potatoes, and squash have been engineered to resist viral pathogens such as cucumber mosaic virus which, despite its name, infects a wide variety of plants.\nVirus resistant papaya were developed in response to a papaya ringspot virus (PRV) outbreak in Hawaii in the late 1990s. They incorporate PRV DNA. By 2010, 80% of Hawaiian papaya plants were genetically modified.\n\nPotatoes were engineered for resistance to potato leaf roll virus and Potato virus Y in 1998. Poor sales led to their market withdrawal after three years.\n\nYellow squash that were resistant to at first two, then three viruses were developed, beginning in the 1990s. The viruses are watermelon, cucumber and zucchini/courgette yellow mosaic. Squash was the second GM crop to be approved by US regulators. The trait was later added to zucchini.\n\nMany strains of corn have been developed in recent years to combat the spread of Maize dwarf mosaic virus, a costly virus that causes stunted growth which is carried in Johnson grass and spread by aphid insect vectors. These strands are commercially available although the resistance is not standard among GM corn variants.\n\nIn 2012, the FDA approved the first plant-produced pharmaceutical, a treatment for Gaucher's Disease. Tobacco plants have been modified to produce therapeutic antibodies.\n\nAlgae is under development for use in biofuels. Researchers in Singapore were working on GM jatropha for biofuel production. Syngenta has USDA approval to market a maize trademarked Enogen that has been genetically modified to convert its starch to sugar for ethanol. Some trees have been genetically modified to either have less lignin, or to express lignin with chemically labile bonds. Lignin is the critical limiting factor when using wood to make bio-ethanol because lignin limits the accessibility of cellulose microfibrils to depolymerization by enzymes. Besides with trees, the chemically labile lignin bonds are also very useful for cereal crops such as maize, barley, and oats.\n\nCompanies and labs are working on plants that can be used to make bioplastics. Potatoes that produce industrially useful starches have been developed as well. Oilseed can be modified to produce fatty acids for detergents, substitute fuels and petrochemicals.\n\nScientists at the University of York developed a weed (\"Arabidopsis thaliana\") that contains genes from bacteria that could clean TNT and RDX-explosive soil contaminants in 2011. 16 million hectares in the US (1.5% of the total surface) are estimated to be contaminated with TNT and RDX. However \"A. thaliana\" was not tough enough for use on military test grounds. Modifications in 2016 included switchgrass and bentgrass.\n\nGenetically modified plants have been used for bioremediation of contaminated soils. Mercury, selenium and organic pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).\n\nMarine environments are especially vulnerable since pollution such as oil spills are not containable. In addition to anthropogenic pollution, millions of tons of petroleum annually enter the marine environment from natural seepages. Despite its toxicity, a considerable fraction of petroleum oil entering marine systems is eliminated by the hydrocarbon-degrading activities of microbial communities. Particularly successful is a recently discovered group of specialists, the so-called hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria (HCCB) that may offer useful genes.\n\nCrops such as maize reproduce sexually each year. This randomizes which genes get propagated to the next generation, meaning that desirable traits can be lost. To maintain a high-quality crop, some farmers purchase seeds every year. Typically, the seed company maintains two inbred varieties and crosses them into a hybrid strain that is then sold. Related plants like sorghum and gamma grass are able to perform apomixis, a form of asexual reproduction that keeps the plant's DNA intact. This trait is apparently controlled by a single dominant gene, but traditional breeding has been unsuccessful in creating asexually-reproducing maize. Genetic engineering offers another route to this goal. Successful modification would allow farmers to replant harvested seeds that retain desirable traits, rather than relying on purchased seed.\n\nGenetic modifications to some crops also exist, which make it easier to process the crop. For instance, the \"no tears\" onion prevents the synthesis of lachrymatory factor synthase in onions (otherwise put, it does not irritate the eyes when the onion is cut.\n\nAlso, some crops (such as tomatoes) have been genetic modified to contain no seed at all.\n\nThe number of USDA-approved field releases for testing grew from 4 in 1985 to 1,194 in 2002 and averaged around 800 per year thereafter. The number of sites per release and the number of gene constructs (ways that the gene of interest is packaged together with other elements) – have rapidly increased since 2005. Releases with agronomic properties (such as drought resistance) jumped from 1,043 in 2005 to 5,190 in 2013. As of September 2013, about 7,800 releases had been approved for corn, more than 2,200 for soybeans, more than 1,100 for cotton, and about 900 for potatoes. Releases were approved for herbicide tolerance (6,772 releases), insect resistance (4,809), product quality such as flavor or nutrition (4,896), agronomic properties like drought resistance (5,190), and virus/fungal resistance (2,616). The institutions with the most authorized field releases include Monsanto with 6,782, Pioneer/DuPont with 1,405, Syngenta with 565, and USDA’s Agricultural Research Service with 370. As of September 2013 USDA had received proposals for releasing GM rice, squash, plum, rose, tobacco, flax, and chicory.\n\nConstant exposure to a toxin creates evolutionary pressure for pests resistant to that toxin. Over-reliance on glyphosate and a reduction in the diversity of weed management practices allowed the spread of glyphosate resistance in 14 weed species in the US, and in soybeans.\n\nTo reduce resistance to \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt) crops, the 1996 commercialization of transgenic cotton and maize came with a management strategy to prevent insects from becoming resistant. Insect resistance management plans are mandatory for Bt crops. The aim is to encourage a large population of pests so that any (recessive) resistance genes are diluted within the population. Resistance lowers evolutionary fitness in the absence of the stressor, Bt. In refuges, non-resistant strains outcompete resistant ones.\n\nWith sufficiently high levels of transgene expression, nearly all of the heterozygotes (S/s), i.e., the largest segment of the pest population carrying a resistance allele, will be killed before maturation, thus preventing transmission of the resistance gene to their progeny. Refuges (i. e., fields of nontransgenic plants) adjacent to transgenic fields increases the likelihood that homozygous resistant (s/s) individuals and any surviving heterozygotes will mate with susceptible (S/S) individuals from the refuge, instead of with other individuals carrying the resistance allele. As a result, the resistance gene frequency in the population remains lower.\n\nComplicating factors can affect the success of the high-dose/refuge strategy. For example, if the temperature is not ideal, thermal stress can lower Bt toxin production and leave the plant more susceptible. More importantly, reduced late-season expression has been documented, possibly resulting from DNA methylation of the promoter. The success of the high-dose/refuge strategy has successfully maintained the value of Bt crops. This success has depended on factors independent of management strategy, including low initial resistance allele frequencies, fitness costs associated with resistance, and the abundance of non-Bt host plants outside the refuges.\n\nCompanies that produce Bt seed are introducing strains with multiple Bt proteins. Monsanto did this with Bt cotton in India, where the product was rapidly adopted. Monsanto has also; in an attempt to simplify the process of implementing refuges in fields to comply with Insect Resistance Management(IRM) policies and prevent irresponsible planting practices; begun marketing seed bags with a set proportion of refuge (non-transgenic) seeds mixed in with the Bt seeds being sold. Coined \"Refuge-In-a-Bag\" (RIB), this practice is intended to increase farmer compliance with refuge requirements and reduce additional labor needed at planting from having separate Bt and refuge seed bags on hand. This strategy is likely to reduce the likelihood of Bt-resistance occurring for corn rootworm, but may increase the risk of resistance for lepidopteran corn pests, such as European corn borer. Increased concerns for resistance with seed mixtures include partially resistant larvae on a Bt plant being able to move to a susceptible plant to survive or cross pollination of refuge pollen on to Bt plants that can lower the amount of Bt expressed in kernels for ear feeding insects.\n\nBest management practices (BMPs) to control weeds may help delay resistance. BMPs include applying multiple herbicides with different modes of action, rotating crops, planting weed-free seed, scouting fields routinely, cleaning equipment to reduce the transmission of weeds to other fields, and maintaining field borders. The most widely planted GM crops are designed to tolerate herbicides. By 2006 some weed populations had evolved to tolerate some of the same herbicides. Palmer amaranth is a weed that competes with cotton. A native of the southwestern US, it traveled east and was first found resistant to glyphosate in 2006, less than 10 years after GM cotton was introduced.\n\nFarmers generally use less insecticide when they plant Bt-resistant crops. Insecticide use on corn farms declined from 0.21 pound per planted acre in 1995 to 0.02 pound in 2010. This is consistent with the decline in European corn borer populations as a direct result of Bt corn and cotton. The establishment of minimum refuge requirements helped delay the evolution of Bt resistance. However, resistance appears to be developing to some Bt traits in some areas.\n\nBy leaving at least 30% of crop residue on the soil surface from harvest through planting, conservation tillage reduces soil erosion from wind and water, increases water retention, and reduces soil degradation as well as water and chemical runoff. In addition, conservation tillage reduces the carbon footprint of agriculture. A 2014 review covering 12 states from 1996 to 2006, found that a 1% increase in herbicde-tolerant (HT) soybean adoption leads to a 0.21% increase in conservation tillage and a 0.3% decrease in quality-adjusted herbicide use.\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering concerns the approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the development and release of genetically modified crops. There are differences in the regulation of GM crops between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the US and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended use of each product. For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.\n\nIn 2013, GM crops were planted in 27 countries; 19 were developing countries and 8 were developed countries. 2013 was the second year in which developing countries grew a majority (54%) of the total GM harvest. 18 million farmers grew GM crops; around 90% were small-holding farmers in developing countries.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) reports every year on the total area of GM crop varieties planted in the United States. According to National Agricultural Statistics Service, the states published in these tables represent 81–86 percent of all corn planted area, 88–90 percent of all soybean planted area, and 81–93 percent of all upland cotton planted area (depending on the year).\n\nGlobal estimates are produced by the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA) and can be found in their annual reports, \"Global Status of Commercialized Transgenic Crops\".\n\nFarmers have widely adopted GM technology (see figure). Between 1996 and 2013, the total surface area of land cultivated with GM crops increased by a factor of 100, from to 1,750,000 km (432 million acres). 10% of the world's arable land was planted with GM crops in 2010. As of 2011, 11 different transgenic crops were grown commercially on 395 million acres (160 million hectares) in 29 countries such as the US, Brazil, Argentina, India, Canada, China, Paraguay, Pakistan, South Africa, Uruguay, Bolivia, Australia, Philippines, Myanmar, Burkina Faso, Mexico and Spain. One of the key reasons for this widespread adoption is the perceived economic benefit the technology brings to farmers. For example, the system of planting glyphosate-resistant seed and then applying glyphosate once plants emerged provided farmers with the opportunity to dramatically increase the yield from a given plot of land, since this allowed them to plant rows closer together. Without it, farmers had to plant rows far enough apart to control post-emergent weeds with mechanical tillage. Likewise, using Bt seeds means that farmers do not have to purchase insecticides, and then invest time, fuel, and equipment in applying them. However critics have disputed whether yields are higher and whether chemical use is less, with GM crops. See Genetically modified food controversies article for information.\n\nIn the US, by 2014, 94% of the planted area of soybeans, 96% of cotton and 93% of corn were genetically modified varieties. Genetically modified soybeans carried herbicide-tolerant traits only, but maize and cotton carried both herbicide tolerance and insect protection traits (the latter largely Bt protein). These constitute \"input-traits\" that are aimed to financially benefit the producers, but may have indirect environmental benefits and cost benefits to consumers. The Grocery Manufacturers of America estimated in 2003 that 70–75% of all processed foods in the U.S. contained a GM ingredient.\n\nEurope grows relatively few genetically engineered crops with the exception of Spain, where one fifth of maize is genetically engineered, and smaller amounts in five other countries. The EU had a 'de facto' ban on the approval of new GM crops, from 1999 until 2004. GM crops are now regulated by the EU. In 2015, genetically engineered crops are banned in 38 countries worldwide, 19 of them in Europe. Developing countries grew 54 percent of genetically engineered crops in 2013.\n\nIn recent years GM crops expanded rapidly in developing countries. In 2013 approximately 18 million farmers grew 54% of worldwide GM crops in developing countries. 2013's largest increase was in Brazil (403,000 km versus 368,000 km in 2012). GM cotton began growing in India in 2002, reaching 110,000 km in 2013.\n\nAccording to the 2013 ISAAA brief: \"...a total of 36 countries (35 + EU-28) have granted regulatory approvals for biotech crops for food and/or feed use and for environmental release or planting since 1994... a total of 2,833 regulatory approvals involving 27 GM crops and 336 GM events (NB: an \"event\" is a specific genetic modification in a specific species) have been issued by authorities, of which 1,321 are for food use (direct use or processing), 918 for feed use (direct use or processing) and 599 for environmental release or planting. Japan has the largest number (198), followed by the U.S.A. (165, not including \"stacked\" events), Canada (146), Mexico (131), South Korea (103), Australia (93), New Zealand (83), European Union (71 including approvals that have expired or under renewal process), Philippines (68), Taiwan (65), Colombia (59), China (55) and South Africa (52). Maize has the largest number (130 events in 27 countries), followed by cotton (49 events in 22 countries), potato (31 events in 10 countries), canola (30 events in 12 countries) and soybean (27 events in 26 countries).\n\nDirect genetic engineering has been controversial since its introduction. Most, but not all of the controversies are over GM foods rather than crops per se. GM foods are the subject of protests, vandalism, referenda, legislation, court action and scientific disputes. The controversies involve consumers, biotechnology companies, governmental regulators, non-governmental organizations and scientists.\n\nOpponents have objected to GM crops on multiple grounds including environmental impacts, food safety, whether GM crops are needed to address food needs, whether they are sufficiently accessible to farmers in developing countries and concerns over subjecting crops to intellectual property law. Secondary issues include labeling, the behavior of government regulators, the effects of pesticide use and pesticide tolerance.\n\nA significant environmental concern about using genetically modified crops is possible cross-breeding with related crops, giving them advantages over naturally occurring varieties. One example is a glyphosate-resistant rice crop that crossbreeds with a weedy relative, giving the weed a competitive advantage. The transgenic hybrid had higher rates of photosynthesis, more shoots and flowers, and more seeds than the non-transgenic hybrids. This demonstrates the possibility of ecosystem damage by GM crop usage.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nNo reports of ill effects from GM food have been documented in the human population. GM crop labeling is required in many countries, although the United States Food and Drug Administration does not, nor does it distinguish between approved GM and non-GM foods. The United States enacted a law that requires labeling regulations to be issued by July 2018. It allows indirect disclosure such as with a phone number, bar code, or web site.\n\nAdvocacy groups such as Center for Food Safety, Union of Concerned Scientists, Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund claim that risks related to GM food have not been adequately examined and managed, that GM crops are not sufficiently tested and should be labelled, and that regulatory authorities and scientific bodies are too closely tied to industry. Some studies have claimed that genetically modified crops can cause harm; a 2016 review that reanalyzed the data from six of these studies found that their statistical methodologies were flawed and did not demonstrate harm, and said that conclusions about GM crop safety should be drawn from \"the totality of the evidence... instead of far-fetched evidence from single studies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56388982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56388982", "title": "Harold Angus", "text": "Harold Angus\n\nHarold Angus (1892-1979) was an Australian rugby league player for the Glebe club in the early years of the NSWRFL competition.\n\nA local junior, Harold Angus was a tough forward who played for the Glebe Dirty Red's for many years and captained Glebe Reserve Grade sides to premiership victory in 1918 and 1919. He retired in the early 1920s.\n\nAngus was often used as a first grade replacement player for Club Captain Frank Burge.\n\nHarold Angus died in the Sutherland Shire on 17 August 1979 and was interred at Rookwood Cemetery on 20 Aug 1979.\n"}
{"id": "1156504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156504", "title": "Henry H. Bell", "text": "Henry H. Bell\n\nHenry Haywood Bell (13 April 1808 – 11 January 1868) was an admiral in the United States Navy. In the American Civil War, he took part in the liberation of New Orleans and the lower Mississippi. Later he was sent to the Far East to command the East India Squadron. In summer 1867, he led a punitive expedition to avenge the Rover incident, where American sailors had been killed by Taiwanese aborigines. In January of the next year, while trying to force the Japanese to accept trade concessions, he drowned when his boat overturned in bad weather.\n\nBell was born in Orange County, North Carolina. Appointed a Midshipman on 4 August 1823, during the next two decades he served afloat in U.S. Atlantic waters, the Mediterranean Sea and the West Indies as an officer of the frigates and ; the sloops of war , , and ; and the schooner . In March 1831, while in \"Vincennes\", Bell was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant. He was assigned to special service on a vessel named \"Hunter\" (apparently not part of the U.S. Navy) during the mid-1840s, then was off Africa and in the Mediterranean as an officer of the frigate \"United States\" and as commanding officer of the schooner . Between early 1849 and mid-1855, Bell served ashore at the Philadelphia, Norfolk and New York Navy Yards.\n\nPromoted to the rank of Commander in August 1854, Bell went to the East Indies in 1855-1858 as commanding officer of the steamer . He spent the late 1850s and early 1860s as a member of the Board of Examiners at the U.S. Naval Academy and on ordnance duty at both Cold Spring, New York and the Washington Navy Yard.\n\nDuring the Civil War he served as Fleet Captain of the West Gulf Blockading Squadron under Admiral David Farragut. He served in the series of campaigns that captured New Orleans and gradually opened the Mississippi River for exploitation by Federal forces. In July 1862, while so-engaged, he attained the rank of Commodore. After completing his Gulf assignment in 1864, he was assigned to the New York Navy Yard as Inspector of Ordnance.\n\nWith the Civil War at an end, in July 1865 Commodore Bell was sent to the Far East to command the East India (later Asiatic) Squadron. He was advanced to Rear Admiral a year later and placed on the Retired List in April 1867, but remained active as the Asiatic Squadron's commander.\n\nIn summer 1867, Rear Admiral Bell led the Formosan Expedition, a punitive operation in response to the \"Rover\" incident, where American sailors had been killed by Taiwanese aborigines. His squadron including screw sloops of war, (flagship), , and , with warships of other western countries, anchored in Osaka Bay to increase pressure on the Japanese government to open Hyōgo Port on 1 January 1868 as committed by various unequal treaties. On 11 January 1868, having passed Tempōzan en route upriver, his boat overturned by heavy seas; Bell and all but three of the craft's other occupants perished in this accident.\n\nTwo ships, , have been named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "26217969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26217969", "title": "Jenő Ábrahám", "text": "Jenő Ábrahám\n\nJenő Ábrahám (, ) was a Hungarian and Yugoslav international football player.\n\nBorn in Szeged, Hungary, he started playing in his hometown club Szegedi AK (SZAK). In 1922 he came to Yugoslavia to play in FK Vojvodina. In September 1924 he was back in Hungary playing with SZAK. In summer 1925 he moved to another Yugoslav club, the Zagreb giants 1. HŠK Građanski where he would play one season and win the 1926 Yugoslav First League. He usually played as left-winger. In 1926 he left Yugoslavia and joined Bástya playing with them in the Hungarian Championship between 1926 and 1930.\n\nBetween 1922 and 1923, he played two matches for the Yugoslavia national football team while playing with Vojvodina having scored two goals. He participated, and scored twice, in the friendly match played on 28 July 1922 in Zagreb against Czechoslovakia, which was a first ever win of the Yugoslav national team, with a final result of 4-3. His other, and last, match was a year later, on 3 July 1923, in a friendly match in Kraków, against Poland, a 2-1 win.\n\nBorn as \"Jenő Ábrahám\" (), while playing in Yugoslavia, and in the national team, he was recorded in the chronicles as \"Saraz\", a Serbo-Croatian transliteration of the Hungarian word \"Száraz\", which means \"Dry\" in Hungarian, a name he received probably because of his looks. Many websites confuse Jenő Ábrahám with Eugen \"Geza\" Ábrahám. The two played in FK Vojvodina in same time, and usually the first was recorded as Saraz I and the second as Saraz II. Unfortunatelly many football-specialized internet websites merged the two and erroneously named the player described in this article as Geza Abraham Sarasz.\n\n"}
{"id": "58528402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58528402", "title": "John Charles Carlile", "text": "John Charles Carlile\n\nThe Reverend John Charles Carlile, CH, CBE (c. 1861 – 16 August 1941) was a British Baptist minister.\n\nBorn in London of Scottish parents, he trained for the ministry at Spurgeon's College. He was minister of the Baptist Church on Abbey Street, Bermondsey from 1884 to 1893, in which year he was elected minister of Trinity Baptist Church, Marylebone. In 1898 he took over a congregation in Folkestone, Kent, returning to London in the 1920s. In 1921 he was elected President of the Baptist Union, and for many years was the editor of \"The Baptist Times\". From 1891 to 1897 he was a member of the London School Board, representing Southwark.\n\nDuring World War I Carlile went to France five times to organize lectures for troops, and was one of the original members of the United Army and Navy Board. For his war services he was appointed a CBE and decorated by the King of the Belgians. In 1929 he was appointed a Companion of Honour.\n"}
{"id": "34182985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34182985", "title": "John Rinehart Blue", "text": "John Rinehart Blue\n\nJohn Rinehart Blue (October 13, 1905 – May 27, 1965) was a Democratic member of the West Virginia House of Delegates representing Hampshire County, West Virginia from 1953 through 1959. Blue was also a prominent schoolteacher, variety store owner, and community leader in his hometown of Romney.\n\nJohn Rinehart Blue was born on October 13, 1905 in Romney, West Virginia to John David Blue and his wife Mary Buckner Rinehart Blue. Blue's father John was a son of Lieutenant John Monroe Blue (March 25, 1834 – June 30, 1903), a prominent member of the 11th Virginia Cavalry of the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War.\n\nBlue received his primary education in the public schools of Romney and earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Presbyterian College in Clinton, South Carolina and later completed graduate studies at West Virginia University in Morgantown, West Virginia.\n\nOn September 6, 1938, Blue married Madeline McDowell, daughter of Angus and Madeline Stanford McDowell of Camden and Montgomery, Alabama. Blue and his wife Madeline had three children: John Angus McDowell Blue, Julia Tait Blue Weir and David Standford Blue.\n\nBlue served in the United States Army during World War II. He enlisted as a private in the U.S. Army at the age of 37 on November 20, 1942 in Clarksburg, West Virginia. Following his enlistment, Blue was inducted into the U.S. Army in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Blue opened a Ben Franklin five and dime variety store in Romney. Initially the store was located in a building owned by his father, John David Blue, which was later razed for the construction of the Pioneer Restaurant. Blue relocated the store between 1955 and 1956 to a three-story building that had previously housed Romney's theater. Following Blue's death, the Ben Franklin store was owned and operated by his wife, Madeline, until it ceased operation and closed in 1991.\n\nBlue was the superintendent of the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind for 20 years.\n\nFollowing the resignation of William L. Thompson from the West Virginia House of Delegates on August 28, 1953, West Virginia Governor William C. Marland appointed Blue to fill Thompson's vacant delegate seat representing Hampshire County on September 23, 1953. Blue was nominated for re-election to his delegate seat by Hampshire County Democratic voters in August 1954, a primary election in which he received 729 votes compared to 536 votes for James W. Short and 517 votes for Harold L. Welker, both Democratic opponents from the Romney area. Blue subsequently ran in the general election on November 2, 1954 for his delegate seat and won, receiving 1859 votes compared to 1355 votes for his opponent, Republican candidate Earl A. Loy of Augusta. Blue filed for inclusion on the ballot in the Democratic Party primary election in 1958, but later lost in the primary to William Basil Slonaker of Dillons Run who went on to win Blue's delegate seat in the 1958 general election. Blue attempted recapturing his delegate seat in 1962, but was defeated in the Democratic Party primary election by incumbent Slonaker, 579 to 1430 votes.\nBlue died on May 27, 1965 of coronary thrombosis caused by coronary artery disease on his farm in Augusta. His funeral service were conducted by Rev. L. T. West at the Romney Presbyterian Church, and he was interred at Indian Mound Cemetery in Romney on May 29, 1965. Blue was survived by his wife, his three children, and his sisters Mrs. Bruce Whitfield and Mrs. Henry Hollenberg.\n\nBlue was a member of the Romney Presbyterian Church affiliated with Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). He served on his church's board of deacons. In addition to his church, Blue was a member of the Moose Lodge, Lions Club, and Hampshire Post 91 of the American Legion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8234150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8234150", "title": "List of assassinated Lebanese people", "text": "List of assassinated Lebanese people\n\nThis is a list of many, but not all, of the assassinated Lebanese political figures:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49079130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49079130", "title": "List of cemeteries in Poland", "text": "List of cemeteries in Poland\n\nThe following is a list of selected cemeteries in Poland. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19728", "title": "Marriage", "text": "Marriage\n\nMarriage, also called matrimony or wedlock, is a socially or ritually recognised union between spouses that establishes rights and obligations between those spouses, as well as between them and any resulting biological or adopted children and affinity (in-laws and other family through marriage). The definition of marriage varies around the world not only between cultures and between religions, but also throughout the history of any given culture and religion, evolving to both expand and constrict in who and what is encompassed, but typically it is principally an institution in which interpersonal relationships, usually sexual, are acknowledged or sanctioned. In some cultures, marriage is recommended or considered to be compulsory before pursuing any sexual activity. When defined broadly, marriage is considered a cultural universal. A marriage ceremony is known as a wedding.\nIndividuals may marry for several reasons, including legal, social, libidinal, emotional, financial, spiritual, and religious purposes. Whom they marry may be influenced by gender, socially determined rules of incest, prescriptive marriage rules, parental choice and individual desire. In some areas of the world, arranged marriage, child marriage, polygamy, and sometimes forced marriage, may be practiced as a cultural tradition. Conversely, such practices may be outlawed and penalized in parts of the world out of concerns of the infringement of women's rights, or the infringement of children's rights (both female and male children), and because of international law. Around the world, primarily in developed democracies, there has been a general trend towards ensuring equal rights within marriage for women and legally recognizing the marriages of interfaith, interracial, and same-sex couples. These trends coincide with the broader human rights movement.\n\nMarriage can be recognized by a state, an organization, a religious authority, a tribal group, a local community, or peers. It is often viewed as a contract. When a marriage is performed and carried out by a government institution in accordance with the marriage laws of the jurisdiction, without religious content, it is a civil marriage. Civil marriage recognizes and creates the rights and obligations intrinsic to matrimony before the state. When a marriage is performed with religious content under the auspices of a religious institution it is a religious marriage. Religious marriage recognizes and creates the rights and obligations intrinsic to matrimony before that religion. Religious marriage is known variously as sacramental marriage in Catholicism, nikah in Islam, nissuin in Judaism, and various other names in other faith traditions, each with their own constraints as to what constitutes, and who can enter into, a valid religious marriage.\n\nSome countries do not recognize locally performed religious marriage on its own, and require a separate civil marriage for official purposes. Conversely, civil marriage does not exist in some countries governed by a religious legal system, such as Saudi Arabia, where marriages contracted abroad might not be recognized if they were contracted contrary to Saudi interpretations of Islamic religious law. In countries governed by a mixed secular-religious legal system, such as in Lebanon and Israel, locally performed civil marriage also does not exist within the country, preventing interfaith and various other marriages contradicting religious laws from being entered into in the country, however, civil marriages performed abroad are recognized by the state even if they conflict with religious laws (in the case of recognition of marriage in Israel, this includes recognition of not only interfaith civil marriages performed abroad, but also overseas same-sex civil marriages).\n\nThe act of marriage usually creates normative or legal obligations between the individuals involved, and any offspring they may produce or adopt. In terms of legal recognition, most sovereign states and other jurisdictions limit marriage to opposite-sex couples and a diminishing number of these permit polygyny, child marriages, and forced marriages. In modern times, a growing number of countries, primarily developed democracies, have lifted bans on and have established legal recognition for the marriages of interfaith, interracial, and same-sex couples. Some cultures allow the dissolution of marriage through divorce or annulment. In some areas, child marriages and polygamy may occur in spite of national laws against the practice.\n\nSince the late twentieth century, major social changes in Western countries have led to changes in the demographics of marriage, with the age of first marriage increasing, fewer people marrying, and more couples choosing to cohabit rather than marry. For example, the number of marriages in Europe decreased by 30% from 1975 to 2005.\n\nHistorically, in most cultures, married women had very few rights of their own, being considered, along with the family's children, the property of the husband; as such, they could not own or inherit property, or represent themselves legally (see for example coverture). In Europe, the United States, and other places in the developed world, beginning in the late 19th century and lasting through the 21st century, marriage has undergone gradual legal changes, aimed at improving the rights of the wife. These changes included giving wives legal identities of their own, abolishing the right of husbands to physically discipline their wives, giving wives property rights, liberalizing divorce laws, providing wives with reproductive rights of their own, and requiring a wife's consent when sexual relations occur. These changes have occurred primarily in Western countries. In the 21st century, there continue to be controversies regarding the legal status of married women, legal acceptance of or leniency towards violence within marriage (especially sexual violence), traditional marriage customs such as dowry and bride price, forced marriage, marriageable age, and criminalization of consensual behaviors such as premarital and extramarital sex.\n\nThe word \"marriage\" derives from Middle English \"mariage\", which first appears in 1250–1300 CE. This in turn is derived from Old French, \"marier\" (to marry), and ultimately Latin, \"marītāre\", meaning to provide with a husband or wife and \"marītāri\" meaning to get married. The adjective \"marīt-us -a, -um\" meaning matrimonial or nuptial could also be used in the masculine form as a noun for \"husband\" and in the feminine form for \"wife\". The related word \"matrimony\" derives from the Old French word \"matremoine\", which appears around 1300 CE and ultimately derives from Latin \"mātrimōnium\", which combines the two concepts: \"mater\" meaning \"mother\" and the suffix -\"monium\" signifying \"action, state, or condition\".\n\nAnthropologists have proposed several competing definitions of marriage in an attempt to encompass the wide variety of marital practices observed across cultures. Even within Western culture, \"definitions of marriage have careened from one extreme to another and everywhere in between\" (as Evan Gerstmann has put it).\n\nIn \"The History of Human Marriage\" (1922), Edvard Westermarck defined marriage as \"a more or less durable connection between male and female lasting beyond the mere act of propagation till after the birth of the offspring.\" In \"The Future of Marriage in Western Civilization\" (1936), he rejected his earlier definition, instead provisionally defining marriage as \"a relation of one or more men to one or more women that is recognized by custom or law\".\n\nThe anthropological handbook \"Notes and Queries\" (1951) defined marriage as \"a union between a man and a woman such that children born to the woman are the recognized legitimate offspring of both partners.\" In recognition of a practice by the Nuer people of Sudan allowing women to act as a husband in certain circumstances (the ghost marriage), Kathleen Gough suggested modifying this to \"a woman and one or more other persons.\"\n\nIn an analysis of marriage among the Nayar, a polyandrous society in India, Gough found that the group lacked a husband role in the conventional sense; that unitary role in the west was divided between a non-resident \"social father\" of the woman's children, and her lovers who were the actual procreators. None of these men had legal rights to the woman's child. This forced Gough to disregard sexual access as a key element of marriage and to define it in terms of legitimacy of offspring alone: marriage is \"a relationship established between a woman and one or more other persons, which provides a child born to the woman under circumstances not prohibited by the rules of relationship, is accorded full birth-status rights common to normal members of his society or social stratum.\"\n\nEconomic anthropologist Duran Bell has criticized the legitimacy-based definition on the basis that some societies do not require marriage for legitimacy. He argued that a legitimacy-based definition of marriage is circular in societies where illegitimacy has no other legal or social implications for a child other than the mother being unmarried.\n\nEdmund Leach criticized Gough's definition for being too restrictive in terms of recognized legitimate offspring and suggested that marriage be viewed in terms of the different types of rights it serves to establish. In 1955 article in \"Man\", Leach argued that no one definition of marriage applied to all cultures. He offered a list of ten rights associated with marriage, including sexual monopoly and rights with respect to children, with specific rights differing across cultures. Those rights, according to Leach, included:\n\nIn a 1997 article in \"Current Anthropology\", Duran Bell describes marriage as \"a relationship between one or more men (male or female) in severalty to one or more women that provides those men with a demand-right of sexual access within a domestic group and identifies women who bear the obligation of yielding to the demands of those specific men.\" In referring to \"men in severalty\", Bell is referring to corporate kin groups such as lineages which, in having paid brideprice, retain a right in a woman's offspring even if her husband (a lineage member) deceases (Levirate marriage). In referring to \"men (male or female)\", Bell is referring to women within the lineage who may stand in as the \"social fathers\" of the wife's children born of other lovers. (See Nuer \"ghost marriage\")\n\nMonogamy is a form of marriage in which an individual has only one spouse during their lifetime or at any one time (serial monogamy).\n\nAnthropologist Jack Goody's comparative study of marriage around the world utilizing the Ethnographic Atlas found a strong correlation between intensive plough agriculture, dowry and monogamy. This pattern was found in a broad swath of Eurasian societies from Japan to Ireland. The majority of Sub-Saharan African societies that practice extensive hoe agriculture, in contrast, show a correlation between \"bride price\" and polygamy. A further study drawing on the Ethnographic Atlas showed a statistical correlation between increasing size of the society, the belief in \"high gods\" to support human morality, and monogamy.\n\nIn the countries which do not permit polygamy, a person who marries in one of those countries a person while still being lawfully married to another commits the crime of bigamy. In all cases, the second marriage is considered legally null and void. Besides the second and subsequent marriages being void, the bigamist is also liable to other penalties, which also vary between jurisdictions.\n\nGovernments that support monogamy may allow easy divorce. In a number of Western countries divorce rates approach 50%. Those who remarry do so on average three times. Divorce and remarriage can thus result in \"serial monogamy\", i.e. having multiple marriages but only one legal spouse at a time. This can be interpreted as a form of plural mating, as are those societies dominated by female-headed families in the Caribbean, Mauritius and Brazil where there is frequent rotation of unmarried partners. In all, these account for 16 to 24% of the \"monogamous\" category.\n\nSerial monogamy creates a new kind of relative, the \"ex-\". The \"ex-wife\", for example, remains an active part of her \"ex-husband's\" or \"ex-wife's\" life, as they may be tied together by transfers of resources (alimony, child support), or shared child custody. Bob Simpson notes that in the British case, serial monogamy creates an \"extended family\" – a number of households tied together in this way, including mobile children (possible exes may include an ex-wife, an ex-brother-in-law, etc., but not an \"ex-child\"). These \"unclear families\" do not fit the mould of the monogamous nuclear family. As a series of connected households, they come to resemble the polygynous model of separate households maintained by mothers with children, tied by a male to whom they are married or divorced.\n\nPolygamy is a marriage which includes more than two partners. When a man is married to more than one wife at a time, the relationship is called polygyny, and there is no marriage bond between the wives; and when a woman is married to more than one husband at a time, it is called polyandry, and there is no marriage bond between the husbands. If a marriage includes multiple husbands and/or wives, it can be called group marriage.\n\nA molecular genetic study of global human genetic diversity argued that sexual polygyny was typical of human reproductive patterns until the shift to sedentary farming communities approximately 10,000 to 5,000 years ago in Europe and Asia, and more recently in Africa and the Americas. As noted above, Anthropologist Jack Goody's comparative study of marriage around the world utilizing the Ethnographic Atlas found that the majority of Sub-Saharan African societies that practice extensive hoe agriculture show a correlation between \"Bride price\" and polygamy. A survey of other cross-cultural samples has confirmed that the absence of the plough was the only predictor of polygamy, although other factors such as high male mortality in warfare (in non-state societies) and pathogen stress (in state societies) had some impact.\n\nMarriages are classified according to the number of legal spouses an individual has. The suffix \"-gamy\" refers specifically to the number of spouses, as in bi-gamy (two spouses, generally illegal in most nations), and poly-gamy (more than one spouse).\n\nSocieties show variable acceptance of polygamy as a cultural ideal and practice. According to the Ethnographic Atlas, of 1,231 societies noted, 186 were monogamous; 453 had occasional polygyny; 588 had more frequent polygyny; and 4 had polyandry. However, as Miriam Zeitzen writes, social tolerance for polygamy is different from the practice of polygamy, since it requires wealth to establish multiple households for multiple wives. The actual practice of polygamy in a tolerant society may actually be low, with the majority of aspirant polygamists practicing monogamous marriage. Tracking the occurrence of polygamy is further complicated in jurisdictions where it has been banned, but continues to be practiced (\"de facto polygamy\").\n\nZeitzen also notes that Western perceptions of African society and marriage patterns are biased by \"contradictory concerns of nostalgia for traditional African culture versus critique of polygamy as oppressive to women or detrimental to development.\" Polygamy has been condemned as being a form of human rights abuse, with concerns arising over domestic abuse, forced marriage, and neglect. The vast majority of the world's countries, including virtually all of the world's developed nations, do not permit polygamy. There have been calls for the abolition of polygamy in developing countries.\n\nPolygyny usually grants wives equal status, although the husband may have personal preferences. One type of de facto polygyny is concubinage, where only one woman gets a wife's rights and status, while other women remain legal house mistresses.\n\nAlthough a society may be classified as polygynous, not all marriages in it necessarily are; monogamous marriages may in fact predominate. It is to this flexibility that Anthropologist Robin Fox attributes its success as a social support system: \"This has often meant – given the imbalance in the sex ratios, the higher male infant mortality, the shorter life span of males, the loss of males in wartime, etc. – that often women were left without financial support from husbands. To correct this condition, females had to be killed at birth, remain single, become prostitutes, or be siphoned off into celibate religious orders. Polygynous systems have the advantage that they can promise, as did the Mormons, a home and family for every woman.\"\n\nNonetheless, polygyny is a gender issue which offers men asymmetrical benefits. In some cases, there is a large age discrepancy (as much as a generation) between a man and his youngest wife, compounding the power differential between the two. Tensions not only exist \"between\" genders, but also \"within\" genders; senior and junior men compete for wives, and senior and junior wives in the same household may experience radically different life conditions, and internal hierarchy. Several studies have suggested that the wive's relationship with other women, including co-wives and husband's female kin, are more critical relationships than that with her husband for her productive, reproductive and personal achievement. In some societies, the co-wives are relatives, usually sisters, a practice called \"sororal polygyny\"; the pre-existing relationship between the co-wives is thought to decrease potential tensions within the marriage.\n\nFox argues that \"the major difference between polygyny and monogamy could be stated thus: while plural mating occurs in both systems, under polygyny several unions may be recognized as being legal marriages while under monogamy only one of the unions is so recognized. Often, however, it is difficult to draw a hard and fast line between the two.\"\n\nAs polygamy in Africa is increasingly subject to legal limitations, a variant form of \"de facto\" (as opposed to legal or \"de jure\") polygyny is being practised in urban centres. Although it does not involve multiple (now illegal) formal marriages, the domestic and personal arrangements follow old polygynous patterns. The de facto form of polygyny is found in other parts of the world as well (including some Mormon sects and Muslim families in the United States).\nIn some societies such as the Lovedu of South Africa, or the Nuer of the Sudan, aristocratic women may become female 'husbands.' In the Lovedu case, this female husband may take a number of polygamous wives. This is not a lesbian relationship, but a means of legitimately expanding a royal lineage by attaching these wives' children to it. The relationships are considered polygynous, not polyandrous, because the female husband is in fact assuming masculine gendered political roles.\n\nReligious groups have differing views on the legitimacy of polygyny. It is allowed in Islam and Confucianism. Judaism and Christianity have mentioned practices involving polygyny in the past, however, outright religious acceptance of such practices was not addressed until its rejection in later passages. They do explicitly prohibit polygyny today.\n\nPolyandry is notably more rare than polygyny, though less rare than the figure commonly cited in the \"Ethnographic Atlas\" (1980) which listed only those polyandrous societies found in the Himalayan Mountains. More recent studies have found 53 societies outside the 28 found in the Himalayans which practice polyandry. It is most common in egalitarian societies marked by high male mortality or male absenteeism. It is associated with \"partible paternity\", the cultural belief that a child can have more than one father.\n\nThe explanation for polyandry in the Himalayan Mountains is related to the scarcity of land; the marriage of all brothers in a family to the same wife (\"fraternal polyandry\") allows family land to remain intact and undivided. If every brother married separately and had children, family land would be split into unsustainable small plots. In Europe, this was prevented through the social practice of impartible inheritance (the dis-inheriting of most siblings, some of whom went on to become celibate monks and priests).\n\nGroup marriage (also known as \"multi-lateral marriage\") is a form of polyamory in which more than two persons form a family unit, with all the members of the group marriage being considered to be married to all the other members of the group marriage, and all members of the marriage share parental responsibility for any children arising from the marriage. No country legally condones group marriages, neither under the law nor as a common law marriage, but historically it has been practiced by some cultures of Polynesia, Asia, Papua New Guinea and the Americas – as well as in some intentional communities and alternative subcultures such as the Oneida Perfectionists in up-state New York. Of the 250 societies reported by the American anthropologist George Murdock in 1949, only the Kaingang of Brazil had any group marriages at all.\n\nA child marriage is a marriage where one or both spouses are under the age of 18. It is related to child betrothal and teenage pregnancy.\n\nChild marriage was common throughout history, even up until the 1900s in the United States, where in 1880 CE, in the state of Delaware, the age of consent for marriage was 7 years old. Still, in 2017, over half of the 50 United States have no explicit minimum age to marry and several states set the age as low as 14. Today it is condemned by international human rights organizations. Child marriages are often arranged between the families of the future bride and groom, sometimes as soon as the girl is born. However, in the late 1800s in England and the United States, feminist activists began calling for raised age of consent laws, which was eventually handled in the 1920s, having been raised to 16-18.\n\nChild marriages can also occur in the context of bride kidnapping.\n\nIn the year 1552 CE, John Somerford and Jane Somerford Brereton were both married at the ages of 3 and 2, respectively. Twelve years later, in 1564, John filed for divorce.\n\nWhile child marriage is observed for both boys and girls, the overwhelming majority of child spouses are girls. In many cases, only one marriage-partner is a child, usually the female, due to the importance placed upon female virginity. Causes of child marriage include poverty, bride price, dowry, laws that allow child marriages, religious and social pressures, regional customs, fear of remaining unmarried, and perceived inability of women to work for money.\n\nToday, child marriages are widespread in parts of the world; being most common in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, with more than half of the girls in some countries in those regions being married before 18. The incidence of child marriage has been falling in most parts of the world. In developed countries child marriage is outlawed or restricted.\n\nGirls who marry before 18 are at greater risk of becoming victims of domestic violence, than those who marry later, especially when they are married to a much older man.\n\nAs noted above, several kinds of same-sex, non-sexual marriages exist in some lineage-based societies. This section relates to same-sex sexual unions. Some cultures include third gender (two-spirit or transgender) individuals, such as the berdache of the Zuni in New Mexico. We'wha, one of the most revered Zuni elders (an Ihamana, spiritual leader) served as an emissary of the Zuni to Washington, where he met President Grover Cleveland. We'wha had a husband who was generally recognized as such.\n\nWhile it is a relatively new practice to grant same-sex couples the same form of legal marital recognition as commonly granted to mixed-sex couples, there is some history of recorded same-sex unions around the world. Ancient Greek same-sex relationships were like modern companionate marriages, unlike their different-sex marriages in which the spouses had few emotional ties, and the husband had freedom to engage in outside sexual liaisons. The Codex Theodosianus (\"C. Th.\" 9.7.3) issued in 438 CE imposed severe penalties or death on same-sex relationships, but the exact intent of the law and its relation to social practice is unclear, as only a few examples of same-sex relationships in that culture exist. Same-sex unions were celebrated in some regions of China, such as Fujian. Possibly the earliest documented same-sex wedding in Latin Christendom occurred in Rome, Italy, at the San Giovanni a Porta Latina basilica in 1581.\n\nSeveral cultures have practiced temporary and conditional marriages. Examples include the Celtic practice of handfasting and fixed-term marriages in the Muslim community. Pre-Islamic Arabs practiced a form of temporary marriage that carries on today in the practice of Nikah mut‘ah, a fixed-term marriage contract. The Islamic prophet Muhammad sanctioned a temporary marriage – sigheh in Iran and muta'a in Iraq – which can provide a legitimizing cover for sex workers. The same forms of temporary marriage have been used in Egypt, Lebanon and Iran to make the donation of a human ova legal for in vitro fertilisation; a woman cannot, however, use this kind of marriage to obtain a sperm donation. Muslim controversies related to Nikah Mut'ah have resulted in the practice being confined mostly to Shi'ite communities. The matrilineal Mosuo of China practice what they call \"walking marriage\".\n\nIn some jurisdictions cohabitation, in certain circumstances, may constitute a common-law marriage, an unregistered partnership, or otherwise provide the unmarried partners with various rights and responsibilities; and in some countries the laws recognize cohabitation in lieu of institutional marriage for taxation and social security benefits. This is the case, for example, in Australia. Cohabitation may be an option pursued as a form of resistance to traditional institutionalized marriage. However, in this context, some nations reserve the right to define the relationship as marital, or otherwise to regulate the relation, even if the relation has not been registered with the state or a religious institution.\n\nConversely, institutionalized marriages may not involve cohabitation. In some cases couples living together do not wish to be recognized as married. This may occur because pension or alimony rights are adversely affected; because of taxation considerations; because of immigration issues, or for other reasons. Such marriages have also been increasingly common in Beijing. Guo Jianmei, director of the center for women's studies at Beijing University, told a Newsday correspondent, \"Walking marriages reflect sweeping changes in Chinese society.\" A \"walking marriage\" refers to a type of temporary marriage formed by the Mosuo of China, in which male partners live elsewhere and make nightly visits. A similar arrangement in Saudi Arabia, called misyar marriage, also involves the husband and wife living separately but meeting regularly.\n\nThere is wide cross-cultural variation in the social rules governing the selection of a partner for marriage. There is variation in the degree to which partner selection is an individual decision by the partners or a collective decision by the partners' kin groups, and there is variation in the rules regulating which partners are valid choices.\n\nThe United Nations World Fertility Report of 2003 reports that 89% of all people get married before age forty-nine. The percent of women and men who marry before age forty-nine drops to nearly 50% in some nations and reaches near 100% in other nations.\n\nIn other cultures with less strict rules governing the groups from which a partner can be chosen the selection of a marriage partner may involve either the couple going through a selection process of courtship or the marriage may be arranged by the couple's parents or an outside party, a matchmaker.\n\nSome people want to marry a person with higher or lower status than them. Others want to marry people who have similar status. In many societies women marry men who are of higher social status. There are marriages where each party has sought a partner of similar status. There are other marriages in which the man is older than the woman.\n\nSocieties have often placed restrictions on marriage to relatives, though the degree of prohibited relationship varies widely. Marriages between parents and children, or between full siblings, with few exceptions, have been considered incest and forbidden. However, marriages between more distant relatives have been much more common, with one estimate being that 80% of all marriages in history have been between second cousins or closer. This proportion has fallen dramatically, but still more than 10% of all marriages are believed to be between people who are second cousins or more closely related. In the United States, such marriages are now highly stigmatized, and laws ban most or all first-cousin marriage in 30 states. Specifics vary: in South Korea, historically it was illegal to marry someone with the same last name and same ancestral line.\n\nAn Avunculate marriage is a marriage that occurs between an uncle and his niece or between an aunt and her nephew. Such marriages are illegal in most countries due to incest restrictions. However, a small number of countries have legalized it, including Argentina, Australia, Austria, Malaysia, and Russia.\nIn various societies the choice of partner is often limited to suitable persons from specific social groups. In some societies the rule is that a partner is selected from an individual's own social group – endogamy, this is often the case in class- and caste-based societies. But in other societies a partner must be chosen from a different group than one's own – exogamy, this may be the case in societies practicing totemic religion where society is divided into several exogamous totemic clans, such as most Aboriginal Australian societies. In other societies a person is expected to marry their cross-cousin, a woman must marry her father's sister's son and a man must marry his mother's brother's daughter – this is often the case if either a society has a rule of tracing kinship exclusively through patrilineal or matrilineal descent groups as among the Akan people of West Africa. Another kind of marriage selection is the levirate marriage in which widows are obligated to marry their husband's brother, mostly found in societies where kinship is based on endogamous clan groups.\n\nReligion has commonly weighed in on the matter of which relatives, if any, are allowed to marry. Relations may be by consanguinity or affinity, meaning by blood or by marriage. On the marriage of cousins, Catholic policy has evolved from initial acceptance, through a long period of general prohibition, to the contemporary requirement for a dispensation. Islam has always allowed it, while Hindu texts vary widely.\n\nIn a wide array of lineage-based societies with a classificatory kinship system, potential spouses are sought from a specific class of relative as determined by a prescriptive marriage rule. This rule may be expressed by anthropologists using a \"descriptive\" kinship term, such as a \"man's mother's brother's daughter\" (also known as a \"cross-cousin\"). Such descriptive rules mask the participant's perspective: a man should marry a woman from his mother's lineage. Within the society's kinship terminology, such relatives are usually indicated by a specific term which sets them apart as potentially marriageable. Pierre Bourdieu notes, however, that very few marriages ever follow the rule, and that when they do so, it is for \"practical kinship\" reasons such as the preservation of family property, rather than the \"official kinship\" ideology.\n\nInsofar as regular marriages following prescriptive rules occur, lineages are linked together in fixed relationships; these ties between lineages may form political alliances in kinship dominated societies. French structural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss developed alliance theory to account for the \"elementary\" kinship structures created by the limited number of prescriptive marriage rules possible.\n\nA pragmatic (or 'arranged') marriage is made easier by formal procedures of family or group politics. A responsible authority sets up or encourages the marriage; they may, indeed, engage a professional matchmaker to find a suitable spouse for an unmarried person. The authority figure could be parents, family, a religious official, or a group consensus. In some cases, the authority figure may choose a match for purposes other than marital harmony.\n\nA forced marriage is a marriage in which one or both of the parties is married against their will. Forced marriages continue to be practiced in parts of the world, especially in South Asia and Africa. The line between forced marriage and consensual marriage may become blurred, because the social norms of these cultures dictate that one should never oppose the desire of one's parents/relatives in regard to the choice of a spouse; in such cultures it is not necessary for violence, threats, intimidation etc. to occur, the person simply \"consents\" to the marriage even if he/she doesn't want it, out of the implied social pressure and duty. The customs of bride price and dowry, that exist in parts of the world, can lead to buying and selling people into marriage.\n\nIn some societies, ranging from Central Asia to the Caucasus to Africa, the custom of bride kidnapping still exists, in which a woman is captured by a man and his friends. Sometimes this covers an elopement, but sometimes it depends on sexual violence. In previous times, \"raptio\" was a larger-scale version of this, with groups of women captured by groups of men, sometimes in war; the most famous example is The Rape of the Sabine Women, which provided the first citizens of Rome with their wives.\n\nOther marriage partners are more or less imposed on an individual. For example, widow inheritance provides a widow with another man from her late husband's brothers.\n\nIn rural areas of India, child marriage is practiced, with parents often arranging the wedding, sometimes even before the child is born. This practice was made illegal under the Child Marriage Restraint Act of 1929.\n\nThe financial aspects of marriage vary between cultures and have changed over time.\n\nIn some cultures, dowries and bridewealth continue to be required today. In both cases, the financial arrangements are usually made between the groom (or his family) and the bride's family; with the bride often not being involved in the negotiations, and often not having a choice in whether to participate in the marriage.\n\nIn Early modern Britain, the social status of the couple was supposed to be equal. After the marriage, all the property (called \"fortune\") and expected inheritances of the wife belonged to the husband.\n\nA dowry is \"a process whereby parental property is distributed to a daughter at her marriage (i.e. \"inter vivos\") rather than at the holder's death (\"mortis causa\")… A dowry establishes some variety of conjugal fund, the nature of which may vary widely. This fund ensures her support (or endowment) in widowhood and eventually goes to provide for her sons and daughters.\"\n\nIn some cultures, especially in countries such as Turkey, India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Morocco, Nepal, dowries continue to be expected. In India, thousands of dowry-related deaths have taken place on yearly basis, to counter this problem, several jurisdictions have enacted laws restricting or banning dowry (see Dowry law in India). In Nepal, dowry was made illegal in 2009. Some authors believe that the giving and receiving of dowry reflects the status and even the effort to climb high in social hierarchy.\n\nDirect Dowry contrasts with bridewealth, which is paid by the groom or his family to the bride's parents, and with indirect dowry (or dower), which is property given to the bride herself by the groom at the time of marriage and which remains under her ownership and control.\n\nIn the Jewish tradition, the rabbis in ancient times insisted on the marriage couple entering into a prenuptial agreement, called a \"ketubah\". Besides other things, the \"ketubah\" provided for an amount to be paid by the husband in the event of a divorce or his estate in the event of his death. This amount was a replacement of the biblical dower or bride price, which was payable at the time of the marriage by the groom to the father of the bride. This innovation was put in place because the biblical bride price created a major social problem: many young prospective husbands could not raise the bride price at the time when they would normally be expected to marry. So, to enable these young men to marry, the rabbis, in effect, delayed the time that the amount would be payable, when they would be more likely to have the sum. It may also be noted that both the dower and the \"ketubah\" amounts served the same purpose: the protection for the wife should her support cease, either by death or divorce. The only difference between the two systems was the timing of the payment. It is the predecessor to the wife's present-day entitlement to maintenance in the event of the breakup of marriage, and family maintenance in the event of the husband not providing adequately for the wife in his will. Another function performed by the \"ketubah\" amount was to provide a disincentive for the husband contemplating divorcing his wife: he would need to have the amount to be able to pay to the wife.\n\nMorning gifts, which might also be arranged by the bride's father rather than the bride, are given to the bride herself; the name derives from the Germanic tribal custom of giving them the morning after the wedding night. She might have control of this morning gift during the lifetime of her husband, but is entitled to it when widowed. If the amount of her inheritance is settled by law rather than agreement, it may be called dower. Depending on legal systems and the exact arrangement, she may not be entitled to dispose of it after her death, and may lose the property if she remarries. Morning gifts were preserved for centuries in morganatic marriage, a union where the wife's inferior social status was held to prohibit her children from inheriting a noble's titles or estates. In this case, the morning gift would support the wife and children. Another legal provision for widowhood was jointure, in which property, often land, would be held in joint tenancy, so that it would automatically go to the widow on her husband's death.\n\nIslamic tradition has similar practices. A 'mahr', either immediate or deferred, is the woman's portion of the groom's wealth (divorce) or estate (death). These amounts are usually set on the basis of the groom's own and family wealth and incomes, but in some parts these are set very high so as to provide a disincentive for the groom exercising the divorce, or the husband's family 'inheriting' a large portion of the estate, especially if there are no male offspring from the marriage. In some countries, including Iran, the mahr or alimony can amount to more than a man can ever hope to earn, sometimes up to US$1,000,000 (4000 official Iranian gold coins). If the husband cannot pay the mahr, either in case of a divorce or on demand, according to the current laws in Iran, he will have to pay it by installments. Failure to pay the mahr might even lead to imprisonment.\n\nBridewealth is a common practice in parts of Southeast Asia (Thailand, Cambodia), parts of Central Asia, and in much of sub-Saharan Africa. It is also known as brideprice although this has fallen in disfavor as it implies the purchase of the bride. Bridewealth is the amount of money or property or wealth paid by the groom or his family to the parents of a woman upon the marriage of their daughter to the groom. In anthropological literature, bride price has often been explained as payment made to compensate the bride's family for the loss of her labor and fertility. In some cases, bridewealth is a means by which the groom's family's ties to the children of the union are recognized.\n\nIn some countries a married person or couple benefits from various taxation advantages not available to a single person. For example, spouses may be allowed to average their combined incomes. This is advantageous to a married couple with disparate incomes. To compensate for this, countries may provide a higher tax bracket for the averaged income of a married couple. While income averaging might still benefit a married couple with a stay-at-home spouse, such averaging would cause a married couple with roughly equal personal incomes to pay more total tax than they would as two single persons. In the United States, this is called the marriage penalty.\n\nWhen the rates applied by the tax code are not based income averaging, but rather on the \"sum\" of individuals' incomes, higher rates will usually apply to each individual in a two-earner households in a progressive tax systems. This is most often the case with high-income taxpayers and is another situation called a marriage penalty.\n\nConversely, when progressive tax is levied on the individual with no consideration for the partnership, dual-income couples fare much better than single-income couples with similar household incomes. The effect can be increased when the welfare system treats the same income as a shared income thereby denying welfare access to the non-earning spouse. Such systems apply in Australia and Canada, for example.\n\nIn many Western cultures, marriage usually leads to the formation of a new household comprising the married couple, with the married couple living together in the same home, often sharing the same bed, but in some other cultures this is not the tradition. Among the Minangkabau of West Sumatra, residency after marriage is matrilocal, with the husband moving into the household of his wife's mother. Residency after marriage can also be patrilocal or avunculocal. In these cases, married couples may not form an independent household, but remain part of an extended family household.\n\nEarly theories explaining the determinants of postmarital residence connected it with the sexual division of labor. However, to date, cross-cultural tests of this hypothesis using worldwide samples have failed to find any significant relationship between these two variables. However, Korotayev's tests show that the female contribution to subsistence does correlate significantly with matrilocal residence in general. However, this correlation is masked by a general polygyny factor.\n\nAlthough, in different-sex marriages, an increase in the female contribution to subsistence tends to lead to matrilocal residence, it also tends simultaneously to lead to general non-sororal polygyny which effectively destroys matrilocality. If this polygyny factor is controlled (e.g., through a multiple regression model), division of labor turns out to be a significant predictor of postmarital residence. Thus, Murdock's hypotheses regarding the relationships between the sexual division of labor and postmarital residence were basically correct, though the actual relationships between those two groups of variables are more complicated than he expected.\n\nThere has been a trend toward the neolocal residence in western societies.\n\nMarriage laws refer to the legal requirements which determine the validity of a marriage, which vary considerably between countries.\n\nA marriage bestows rights and obligations on the married parties, and sometimes on relatives as well, being the sole mechanism for the creation of affinal ties (in-laws). These may include, depending on jurisdiction:\n\nThese rights and obligations vary considerably between societies, and between groups within society. These might include arranged marriages, family obligations, the legal establishment of a nuclear family unit, the legal protection of children and public declaration of commitment.\n\nIn many countries today, each marriage partner has the choice of keeping his or her property separate or combining properties. In the latter case, called community property, when the marriage ends by divorce each owns half. In lieu of a will or trust, property owned by the deceased generally is inherited by the surviving spouse.\n\nIn some legal systems, the partners in a marriage are \"jointly liable\" for the debts of the marriage. This has a basis in a traditional legal notion called the \"Doctrine of Necessities\" whereby, in a heterosexual marriage, a husband was responsible to provide necessary things for his wife. Where this is the case, one partner may be sued to collect a debt for which they did not expressly contract. Critics of this practice note that debt collection agencies can abuse this by claiming an unreasonably wide range of debts to be expenses of the marriage. The cost of defense and the burden of proof is then placed on the non-contracting party to prove that the expense is not a debt of the family. The respective maintenance obligations, both during and eventually after a marriage, are regulated in most jurisdictions; alimony is one such method.\n\nMarriage is an institution that is historically filled with restrictions. From age, to race, to social status, to consanguinity, to gender, restrictions are placed on marriage by society for reasons of benefiting the children, passing on healthy genes, maintaining cultural values, or because of prejudice and fear. Almost all cultures that recognize marriage also recognize adultery as a violation of the terms of marriage.\n\nMost jurisdictions set a minimum age for marriage, that is, a person must attain a certain age to be legally allowed to marry. This age may depend on circumstances, for instance exceptions from the general rule may be permitted if the parents of a young person express their consent and/or if a court decides that said marriage is in the best interest of the young person (often this applies in cases where a girl is pregnant). Although most age restrictions are in place in order to prevent children from being forced into marriages, especially to much older partners – marriages which can have negative education and health related consequences, and lead to child sexual abuse and other forms of violence – such child marriages remain common in parts of the world. According to the UN, child marriages are most common in rural sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. The ten countries with the highest rates of child marriage are: Niger (75%), Chad, Central African Republic, Bangladesh, Guinea, Mozambique, Mali, Burkina Faso, South Sudan, and Malawi.\n\nTo prohibit incest and eugenic reasons, marriage laws have set restrictions for relatives to marry. Direct blood relatives are usually prohibited to marry, while for branch line relatives, laws are wary.\n\nLaws banning \"race-mixing\" were enforced in certain North American jurisdictions from 1691 until 1967, in Nazi Germany (The Nuremberg Laws) from 1935 until 1945, and in South Africa during most part of the Apartheid era (1949–1985). All these laws primarily banned marriage between persons of different racially or ethnically defined groups, which was termed \"amalgamation\" or \"miscegenation\" in the U.S. The laws in Nazi Germany and many of the U.S. states, as well as South Africa, also banned sexual relations between such individuals.\n\nIn the United States, laws in some but not all of the states prohibited the marriage of whites and blacks, and in many states also the intermarriage of whites with Native Americans or Asians. In the U.S., such laws were known as anti-miscegenation laws. From 1913 until 1948, 30 out of the then 48 states enforced such laws. Although an \"Anti-Miscegenation Amendment\" to the United States Constitution was proposed in 1871, in 1912–1913, and in 1928, no nationwide law against racially mixed marriages was ever enacted. In 1967, the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously ruled in \"Loving v. Virginia\" that anti-miscegenation laws are unconstitutional. With this ruling, these laws were no longer in effect in the remaining 16 states that still had them.\n\nThe Nazi ban on interracial marriage and interracial sex was enacted in September 1935 as part of the Nuremberg Laws, the \"Gesetz zum Schutze des deutschen Blutes und der deutschen Ehre\" (The Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour). The Nuremberg Laws classified Jews as a race and forbade marriage and extramarital sexual relations at first with people of Jewish descent, but was later ended to the \"Gypsies, Negroes or their bastard offspring\" and people of \"German or related blood\". Such relations were marked as \"Rassenschande\" (lit. \"race-disgrace\") and could be punished by imprisonment (usually followed by deportation to a concentration camp) and even by death.\n\nSouth Africa under apartheid also banned interracial marriage. The Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, 1949 prohibited marriage between persons of different races, and the Immorality Act of 1950 made sexual relations with a person of a different race a crime.\n\nAs of 2018, same-sex marriage is performed and recognized by law (nationwide or in some parts) in the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Uruguay. Additionally, Armenia, Estonia and Israel recognize the marriages of same-sex couples validly entered into in other countries. Same-sex marriage is also due to soon become performed and recognized by law in Austria, Costa Rica, and Taiwan. Furthermore, the Inter-American Court of Human Rights has issued a ruling which is expected to facilitate recognition in several countries in the Americas.\n\nThe introduction of same-sex marriage has varied by jurisdiction, being variously accomplished through legislative change to marriage law, a court ruling based on constitutional guarantees of equality, or by direct popular vote (via ballot initiative or referendum). The recognition of same-sex marriage is considered to be a human right and a civil right as well as a political, social, and religious issue. The most prominent supporters of same-sex marriage are human rights and civil rights organizations as well as the medical and scientific communities, while the most prominent opponents are religious groups. Various faith communities around the world support same-sex marriage, while many religious groups oppose it. Polls consistently show continually rising support for the recognition of same-sex marriage in all developed democracies and in some developing democracies.\n\nThe establishment of recognition in law for the marriages of same-sex couples is one of the most prominent objectives of the LGBT rights movement.\n\nPolygyny is widely practiced in mostly Muslim and African countries. In the Middle Eastern region, Israel, Turkey and Tunisia are notable exceptions.\n\nIn most other jurisdictions, polygamy is illegal. For example, In the United States, polygamy is illegal in all 50 states.\n\nOver a century ago, citizens of the self-governing territory of what is present-day Utah were forced by the United States federal government to abandon the practice of polygamy through the vigorous enforcement of several Acts of Congress and eventually complied. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints formally abolished the practice in 1890, in a document labeled 'The Manifesto'. Among American Muslims, a small minority of around 50,000 to 100,000 people are estimated to live in families with a husband maintaining an illegal polygamous relationship.\n\nSeveral countries such as India and Sri Lanka, permit only their Islamic citizens to practice polygamy. Some Indians have converted to Islam in order to bypass such legal restrictions. Predominantly Christian nations usually do not allow polygamous unions, with a handful of exceptions being the Republic of the Congo, Uganda, and Zambia. Myanmar (frequently referred to as Burma) is also the only predominantly Buddhist nation to allow for civil polygynous marriages, though such is rarely tolerated by the Burmese population.\n\nIn various jurisdictions, a civil marriage may take place as part of the religious marriage ceremony, although they are theoretically distinct. Some jurisdictions allow civil marriages in circumstances which are notably not allowed by particular religions, such as same-sex marriages or civil unions.\n\nThe opposite case may happen as well. Partners may not have full juridical acting capacity and churches may have less strict limits than the civil jurisdictions. This particularly applies to minimum age, or physical infirmities.\n\nIt is possible for two people to be recognised as married by a religious or other institution, but not by the state, and hence without the legal rights and obligations of marriage; or to have a civil marriage deemed invalid and sinful by a religion. Similarly, a couple may remain married in religious eyes after a civil divorce.\n\nA marriage is usually formalized at a wedding or marriage ceremony. The ceremony may be officiated either by a religious official, by a government official or by a state approved celebrant. In various European and some Latin American countries, any religious ceremony must be held separately from the required civil ceremony. Some countries – such as Belgium, Bulgaria, France, the Netherlands, Romania and Turkey – require that a civil ceremony take place before any religious one. In some countries – notably the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Norway and Spain – both ceremonies can be held together; the officiant at the religious and civil ceremony also serving as agent of the state to perform the civil ceremony. To avoid any implication that the state is \"recognizing\" a religious marriage (which is prohibited in some countries) – the \"civil\" ceremony is said to be taking place at the same time as the religious ceremony. Often this involves simply signing a register during the religious ceremony. If the civil element of the religious ceremony is omitted, the marriage ceremony is not recognized as a marriage by government under the law.\n\nSome countries, such as Australia, permit marriages to be held in private and at any location; others, including England and Wales, require that the civil ceremony be conducted in a place open to the public and specially sanctioned by law for the purpose. In England, the place of marriage formerly had to be a church or register office, but this was extended to any public venue with the necessary licence. An exception can be made in the case of marriage by special emergency license (UK: licence), which is normally granted only when one of the parties is terminally ill. Rules about where and when persons can marry vary from place to place. Some regulations require one of the parties to reside within the jurisdiction of the register office (formerly parish).\n\nEach religious authority has rules for the manner in which marriages are to be conducted by their officials and members. Where religious marriages are recognised by the state, the officiator must also conform with the law of the jurisdiction.\n\nIn a small number of jurisdictions marriage relationships may be created by the operation of the law alone. Unlike the typical ceremonial marriage with legal contract, wedding ceremony, and other details, a common-law marriage may be called \"marriage by habit and repute (cohabitation).\" A de facto common-law marriage without a license or ceremony is legally binding in some jurisdictions but has no legal consequence in others.\n\nA \"civil union\", also referred to as a \"civil partnership\", is a legally recognized form of partnership similar to marriage. Beginning with Denmark in 1989, civil unions under one name or another have been established by law in several countries in order to provide same-sex couples rights, benefits, and responsibilities similar (in some countries, identical) to opposite-sex civil marriage. In some jurisdictions, such as Brazil, New Zealand, Uruguay, Ecuador, France and the U.S. states of Hawaii and Illinois, civil unions are also open to opposite-sex couples.\n\nSometimes people marry to take advantage of a certain situation, sometimes called a marriage of convenience or a sham marriage. For example, according to one publisher of information about green card marriages, \"Every year over 450,000 United States citizens marry foreign-born individuals and petition for them to obtain a permanent residency (Green Card) in the United States.\" While this is likely an overestimate, in 2003 alone 184,741 immigrants were admitted to the U.S. as spouses of U.S. citizens. More were admitted as fiancés of US citizens for the purpose of being married within 90 days. Regardless of the number of people entering the US to marry a US citizen, it does not indicate the number of these marriages that are convenience marriages, which number could include some of those with the motive of obtaining permanent residency, but also include people who are US citizens. One example would be to obtain an inheritance that has a marriage clause. Another example would be to save money on health insurance or to enter a health plan with preexisting conditions offered by the new spouse's employer. Other situations exist, and, in fact, all marriages have a complex combination of conveniences motivating the parties to marry. A marriage of convenience is one that is devoid of normal reasons to marry. In certain countries like Singapore sham marriages like these are punishable criminal offences.\n\nPeople have proposed arguments against marriage for reasons that include political, philosophical and religious criticisms; concerns about the divorce rate; individual liberty and gender equality; questioning the necessity of having a personal relationship sanctioned by government or religious authorities; or the promotion of celibacy for religious or philosophical reasons.\n\nFeminist theory approaches opposite-sex marriage as an institution traditionally rooted in patriarchy that promotes male superiority and power over women. This power dynamic conceptualizes men as \"the provider operating in the public sphere\" and women as \"the caregivers operating within the private sphere\". \"Theoretically, women ... [were] defined as the property of their husbands ... The adultery of a woman was always treated with more severity than that of a man.\" \"[F]eminist demands for a wife's control over her own property were not met [in parts of Britain] until ... [laws were passed in the late 19th century].\"\n\nTraditional heterosexual marriage imposed an obligation of the wife to be sexually available for her husband and an obligation of the husband to provide material/financial support for the wife. Numerous philosophers, feminists and other academic figures have commented on this throughout history, condemning the hypocrisy of legal and religious authorities in regard to sexual issues; pointing to the lack of choice of a woman in regard to controlling her own sexuality; and drawing parallels between marriage, an institution promoted as sacred, and prostitution, widely condemned and vilified (though often tolerated as a \"necessary evil\"). Mary Wollstonecraft, in the 18th century, described marriage as \"legal prostitution\". Emma Goldman wrote in 1910: \"To the moralist prostitution does not consist so much in the fact that the woman sells her body, but rather that she sells it out of wedlock\". Bertrand Russell in his book Marriage and Morals wrote that:\"Marriage is for woman the commonest mode of livelihood, and the total amount of undesired sex endured by women is probably greater in marriage than in prostitution.\" Angela Carter in Nights at the Circus wrote: \"What is marriage but prostitution to one man instead of many?\"\n\nSome critics object to what they see as propaganda in relation to marriage – from the government, religious organizations, the media – which aggressively promote marriage as a solution for all social problems; such propaganda includes, for instance, marriage promotion in schools, where children, especially girls, are bombarded with positive information about marriage, being presented only with the information prepared by authorities.\n\nThe performance of dominant gender roles by men and submissive gender roles by women influence the power dynamic of a heterosexual marriage. In some American households, women internalize gender role stereotypes and often assimilate into the role of \"wife\", \"mother\", and \"caretaker\" in conformity to societal norms and their male partner. Author bell hooks states \"within the family structure, individuals learn to accept sexist oppression as 'natural' and are primed to support other forms of oppression, including heterosexist domination.\" \"[T]he cultural, economic, political and legal supremacy of the husband\" was \"[t]raditional ... under English law\". This patriarchal dynamic is contrasted with a conception of egalitarian or Peer Marriage in which power and labour are divided equally, and not according to gender roles.\n\nIn the US, studies have shown that, despite egalitarian ideals being common, less than half of respondents viewed their opposite-sex relationships as equal in power, with unequal relationships being more commonly dominated by the male partner. Studies also show that married couples find the highest level of satisfaction in egalitarian relationships and lowest levels of satisfaction in wife dominate relationships. In recent years, egalitarian or Peer Marriages have been receiving increasing focus and attention politically, economically and culturally in a number of countries, including the United States.\n\nDifferent societies demonstrate variable tolerance of extramarital sex. The Standard Cross-Cultural Sample describes the occurrence of extramarital sex by gender in over 50 pre-industrial cultures. The occurrence of extramarital sex by men is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 29 cultures, \"occasional\" in 6 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 10 cultures. The occurrence of extramarital sex by women is described as \"universal\" in 6 cultures, \"moderate\" in 23 cultures, \"occasional\" in 9 cultures, and \"uncommon\" in 15 cultures. Three studies using nationally representative samples in the United States found that between 10–15% of women and 20–25% of men engage in extramarital sex.\n\nMany of the world's major religions look with disfavor on sexual relations outside marriage. There are non-secular states that sanction criminal penalties for sexual intercourse before marriage. Sexual relations by a married person with someone other than his/her spouse is known as adultery. Adultery is considered in many jurisdictions to be a crime and grounds for divorce.\n\nIn some countries, such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Oman, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, Yemen, any form of sexual activity outside marriage is illegal.\n\nIn some parts of the world, women and girls accused of having sexual relations outside marriage are at risk of becoming victims of honor killings committed by their families. In 2011 several people were sentenced to death by stoning after being accused of adultery in Iran, Somalia, Afghanistan, Sudan, Mali and Pakistan. Practices such as honor killings and stoning continue to be supported by mainstream politicians and other officials in some countries. In Pakistan, after the 2008 Balochistan honour killings in which five women were killed by tribesmen of the Umrani Tribe of Balochistan, Pakistani Federal Minister for Postal Services Israr Ullah Zehri defended the practice; he said: \"These are centuries-old traditions, and I will continue to defend them. Only those who indulge in immoral acts should be afraid.\"\n\nAn issue that is a serious concern regarding marriage and which has been the object of international scrutiny is that of sexual violence within marriage. Throughout much of the history, in most cultures, sex in marriage was considered a 'right', that could be taken by force (often by a man from a woman), if 'denied'. As the concept of human rights started to develop in the 20th century, and with the arrival of second-wave feminism, such views have become less widely held.\n\nThe legal and social concept of marital rape has developed in most industrialized countries in the mid- to late 20th century; in many other parts of the world it is not recognized as a form of abuse, socially or legally. Several countries in Eastern Europe and Scandinavia made marital rape illegal before 1970, and other countries in Western Europe and the English-speaking Western world outlawed it in the 1980s and 1990s. In England and Wales, marital rape was made illegal in 1991. Although marital rape is being increasingly criminalized in developing countries too, cultural, religious, and traditional ideologies about \"conjugal rights\" remain very strong in many parts of the world; and even in many countries that have adequate laws against rape in marriage these laws are rarely enforced.\n\nApart from the issue of rape committed against one's spouse, marriage is, in many parts of the world, closely connected with other forms of sexual violence: in some places, like Morocco, unmarried girls and women who are raped are often forced by their families to marry their rapist. Because being the victim of rape and losing virginity carry extreme social stigma, and the victims are deemed to have their \"reputation\" tarnished, a marriage with the rapist is arranged. This is claimed to be in the advantage of both the victim – who does not remain unmarried and doesn't lose social status – and of the rapist, who avoids punishment. In 2012, after a Moroccan 16-year-old girl committed suicide after having been forced by her family to marry her rapist and enduring further abuse by the rapist after they married, there have been protests from activists against this practice which is common in Morocco.\n\nIn some societies, the very high social and religious importance of marital fidelity, especially female fidelity, has as result the criminalization of adultery, often with harsh penalties such as stoning or flogging; as well as leniency towards punishment of violence related to infidelity (such as honor killings). In the 21st century, criminal laws against adultery have become controversial with international organizations calling for their abolition. Opponents of adultery laws argue that these laws are a major contributor to discrimination and violence against women, as they are enforced selectively mostly against women; that they prevent women from reporting sexual violence; and that they maintain social norms which justify violent crimes committed against women by husbands, families and communities. A Joint Statement by the United Nations Working Group on discrimination against women in law and in practice states that \"Adultery as a criminal offence violates women's human rights\". Some human rights organizations argue that the criminalization of adultery also violates internationally recognized protections for private life, as it represents an arbitrary interference with an individual's privacy, which is not permitted under international law.\n\nThe laws surrounding heterosexual marriage in many countries have come under international scrutiny because they contradict international standards of human rights; institutionalize violence against women, child marriage and forced marriage; require the permission of a husband for his wife to work in a paid job, sign legal documents, file criminal charges against someone, sue in civil court etc.; sanction the use by husbands of violence to \"discipline\" their wives; and discriminate against women in divorce.\n\nSuch things were legal even in many Western countries until recently: for instance, in France, married women obtained the right to work without their husband's permission in 1965, and in West Germany women obtained this right in 1977 (by comparison women in East Germany had many more rights). In Spain, during Franco's era, a married woman needed her husband's consent, referred to as the \"permiso marital\", for almost all economic activities, including employment, ownership of property, and even traveling away from home; the \"permiso marital\" was abolished in 1975.\n\nAn absolute submission of a wife to her husband is accepted as natural in many parts of the world, for instance surveys by UNICEF have shown that the percentage of women aged 15–49 who think that a husband is justified in hitting or beating his wife under certain circumstances is as high as 90% in Afghanistan and Jordan, 87% in Mali, 86% in Guinea and Timor-Leste, 81% in Laos, 80% in Central African Republic. Detailed results from Afghanistan show that 78.4% of women agree with a beating if the wife \"goes out without telling him [the husband]\" and 76.2% agree \"if she argues with him\".\n\nThroughout history, and still today in many countries, laws have provided for extenuating circumstances, partial or complete defenses, for men who killed their wives due to adultery, with such acts often being seen as crimes of passion and being covered by legal defenses such as provocation or defense of family honor.\n\nWhile international law and conventions recognize the need for consent for entering a marriage - namely that people cannot be forced to get married against their will - the right to obtain a divorce is not recognized; therefore holding a person in a marriage against their will (if such person has consented to entering in it) is not considered a violation of human rights, with the issue of divorce being left at the appreciation of individual states. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly ruled that under the European Convention on Human Rights there is neither a right to apply to divorce, nor a right to obtain the divorce if applied for it; in 2017, in \"Babiarz v. Poland\", the Court ruled that Poland was entitled to deny a divorce because the grounds for divorce were not met, even if the marriage in question was acknowledged both by Polish courts and by the ECHR as being a legal fiction involving a long-term separation where the husband lived with another woman with whom he had an 11-year-old child.\n\nIn the EU, the last country to allow divorce was Malta, in 2011. Around the world, the only countries to forbid divorce are Philippines and Vatican City, although in practice in many countries which use a fault-based divorce system obtaining a divorce is very difficult. The ability to divorce, in law and practice, has been and continues to be a controversial issue in many countries, and public discourse involves different ideologies such as feminism, social conservatism, religious interpretations.\n\nIn recent years, the customs of dowry and bride price have received international criticism for inciting conflicts between families and clans; contributing to violence against women; promoting materialism; increasing property crimes (where men steal goods such as cattle in order to be able to pay the bride price); and making it difficult for poor people to marry. African women's rights campaigners advocate the abolishing of bride price, which they argue is based on the idea that women are a form of property which can be bought. Bride price has also been criticized for contributing to child trafficking as impoverished parents sell their young daughters to rich older men. A senior Papua New Guinea police officer has called for the abolishing of bride price arguing that it is one of the main reasons for the mistreatment of women in that country. The opposite practice of dowry has been linked to a high level of violence (see Dowry death) and to crimes such as extortion.\n\nHistorically, and still in many countries, children born outside marriage suffered severe social stigma and discrimination. In England and Wales, such children were known as bastards and whoresons.\n\nThere are significant differences between world regions in regard to the social and legal position of non-marital births, ranging from being fully accepted and uncontroversial to being severely stigmatized and discriminated.\n\nThe 1975 European Convention on the Legal Status of Children Born out of Wedlock protects the rights of children born to unmarried parents. The convention states, among others, that: \"The father and mother of a child born out of wedlock shall have the same obligation to maintain the child as if it were born in wedlock\" and that \"A child born out of wedlock shall have the same right of succession in the estate of its father and its mother and of a member of its father's or mother's family, as if it had been born in wedlock.\"\n\nWhile in most Western countries legal inequalities between children born inside and outside marriage have largely been abolished, this is not the case in some parts of the world.\n\nThe legal status of an unmarried father differs greatly from country to country. Without voluntary formal recognition of the child by the father, in most cases there is a need of due process of law in order to establish paternity. In some countries however, unmarried cohabitation of a couple for a specific period of time does create a presumption of paternity similar to that of formal marriage. This is the case in Australia. Under what circumstances can a paternity action be initiated, the rights and responsibilities of a father once paternity has been established (whether he can obtain parental responsibility and whether he can be forced to support the child) as well as the legal position of a father who voluntarily acknowledges the child, vary widely by jurisdiction. A special situation arises when a married woman has a child by a man other than her husband. Some countries, such as Israel, refuse to accept a legal challenge of paternity in such a circumstance, in order to avoid the stigmatization of the child (see Mamzer, a concept under Jewish law). In 2010, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in favor of a German man who had fathered twins with a married woman, granting him right of contact with the twins, despite the fact that the mother and her husband had forbidden him to see the children.\n\nThe steps that an unmarried father must take in order to obtain rights to his child vary by country. In some countries (such as the UK – since 2003 in England and Wales, 2006 in Scotland, and 2002 in Northern Ireland) it is sufficient for the father to be listed on the birth certificate for him to have parental rights; in other countries, such as Ireland, simply being listed on the birth certificate does not offer any rights, additional legal steps must be taken (if the mother agrees, the parents can both sign a \"statutory declaration\", but if the mother does not agree, the father has to apply to court).\n\nChildren born outside marriage have become more common, and in some countries, the majority. Recent data from Latin America showed figures for non-marital childbearing to be 74% for Colombia, 69% for Peru, 68% for Chile, 66% for Brazil, 58% for Argentina, 55% for Mexico. In 2012, in the European Union, 40% of births were outside marriage, and in the United States, in 2013, the figure was similar, at 40.6%. In the United Kingdom 47.6% of births were to unmarried women in 2012; in Ireland the figure was 35.1%.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, unmarried women in some Western countries were coerced by authorities to give their children up for adoption. This was especially the case in Australia, through the forced adoptions in Australia, with most of these adoptions taking place between the 1950s and the 1970s. In 2013, Julia Gillard, then Prime Minister of Australia, offered a national apology to those affected by the forced adoptions.\n\nSome married couples choose not to have children. Others are unable to have children because of infertility or other factors preventing conception or the bearing of children. In some cultures, marriage imposes an \"obligation\" on women to bear children. In northern Ghana, for example, payment of bridewealth signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control face substantial threats of physical abuse and reprisals.\n\nReligions develop in specific geographic and social milieux.\nUnsurprisingly, religious attitudes and practices relating to marriage can vary.\nThe precepts of mainstream religions include, as a rule, unequivocal prescriptions for marriage, establishing both rituals and rules of conduct.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith encourages marriage and views it as a mutually strengthening bond, but it is not obligatory. A Bahá'í marriage requires the couple to choose each other, and then obtain the consent of all living parents.\n\nChristian marriages are based upon the teachings of Jesus and the Paul the Apostle. many Christian denominations regard marriage as a sacrament, sacred institution, or covenant, but this was not always the case before the 1184 Council of Verona officially recognized marriage as a sacrament. Before then, no specific ritual was prescribed for celebrating a marriage: \"Marriage vows did not have to be exchanged in a church, nor was a priest's presence required. A couple could exchange consent anywhere, anytime.\"\n\nDecrees on marriage of the Roman Catholic Council of Trent (twenty-fourth session of 1563) made the validity of marriage dependent on the wedding occurring in the presence of a priest and two witnesses. The absence of a requirement of parental consent ended a debate that proceeded from the 12th century. In the case of a civil divorce, the innocent spouse had and has no right to marry again until the death of the other spouse terminates the still valid marriage, even if the other spouse was guilty of adultery.\n\nThe Christian Church performed marriages in the narthex of the church prior to the 16th century, when the emphasis was on the marital contract and betrothal. Subsequently, the ceremony moved inside the sacristy of the church.\n\nChristians often marry for religious reasons, ranging from following the biblical injunction for a \"man to leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one\", to accessing the Divine grace of the Roman Catholic Sacrament.\n\nCatholics, Eastern Orthodox, as well as many Anglicans and Methodists, consider marriage termed \"holy matrimony\" to be an expression of divine grace, termed a \"sacrament\" and \"mystery\" in the first two Christian traditions. In Western ritual, the ministers of the sacrament are the spouses themselves, with a bishop, priest, or deacon merely witnessing the union on behalf of the Church and blessing it. In Eastern ritual churches, the bishop or priest functions as the actual minister of the Sacred Mystery; Eastern Orthodox deacons may not perform marriages. Western Christians commonly refer to marriage as a vocation, while Eastern Christians consider it an ordination and a martyrdom, though the theological emphases indicated by the various names are not excluded by the teachings of either tradition. Marriage is commonly celebrated in the context of a Eucharistic service (a nuptial Mass or Divine Liturgy). The sacrament of marriage is indicative of the relationship between Christ and the Church.\n\nThe Roman Catholic tradition of the 12th and 13th centuries defined marriage as a sacrament ordained by God, signifying the mystical marriage of Christ to his Church.\nThe matrimonial covenant, by which a man and a woman establish between themselves a partnership of the whole of life, is by its nature ordered toward the good of the spouses and the procreation and education of offspring; this covenant between baptized persons has been raised by Christ the Lord to the dignity of a sacrament.\nFor Catholic and Methodist Christians, the mutual love between man and wife becomes an image of the eternal love with which God loves humankind. In the United Methodist Church, the celebration of Holy Matrimony ideally occurs in the context of a Service of Worship, which includes the celebration of the Eucharist. Likewise, the celebration of marriage between two Catholics normally takes place during the public liturgical celebration of the Holy Mass, because of its sacramental connection with the unity of the Paschal mystery of Christ (Communion). Sacramental marriage confers a perpetual and exclusive bond between the spouses. By its nature, the institution of marriage and conjugal love is ordered to the procreation and upbringing of offspring. Marriage creates rights and duties in the Church between the spouses and towards their children: \"[e]ntering marriage with the intention of never having children is a grave wrong and more than likely grounds for an annulment\". According to current Roman Catholic legislation, progeny of annulled relationships are considered legitimate. Civilly remarried persons who civilly divorced a living and lawful spouse are not separated from the Church, but they cannot receive Eucharistic Communion.\n\nDivorce and remarriage, while generally not encouraged, are regarded differently by each Christian denomination. Most Protestant Churches allow persons to marry again after a divorce, while other require an annulment. The Eastern Orthodox Church allows divorce for a limited number of reasons, and in theory, but usually not in practice, requires that a marriage after divorce be celebrated with a penitential overtone. With respect to marriage between a Christian and a pagan, the early Church \"sometimes took a more lenient view, invoking the so-called Pauline privilege of permissible separation (1 Cor. 7) as legitimate grounds for allowing a convert to divorce a pagan spouse and then marry a Christian.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church adheres to the proscription of Jesus in \"Matthew\", 19: 6 that married spouses who have consummated their marriage \"are no longer two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, no human being must separate.” Consequently, the Catholic Church understands that it is wholly without authority to terminate a sacramentally valid and consummated marriage, and its \"Codex Iuris Canonici\" (1983 Code of Canon Law) confirms this in Canons 1055-7. Specifically, Canon 1056 declares that \"the essential properties of marriage are unity and \"indissolubility\"; in [C]hristian marriage they acquire a distinctive \"firmness\" by reason of the sacrament.\" Canon 1057, §2 declares that marriage is \"an \"irrevocable\" covenant\". Therefore, divorce of such a marriage is a metaphysical, moral, and legal impossibility. However, the Church has the authority to annul a presumed \"marriage\" by declaring it to have been invalid from the beginning, i. e., declaring it not to be and never to have been a marriage, in an annulment procedure, which is basically a fact-finding and fact-declaring effort.\n\nFor Protestant denominations, the purposes of marriage include intimate companionship, rearing children, and mutual support for both spouses to fulfill their life callings. Most Reformed Christians did not regard marriage to the status of a sacrament \"because they did not regard matrimony as a necessary means of grace for salvation\"; nevertheless it is considered a covenant between spouses before God. In addition, some Protestant denominations (such as the Methodist Churches) affirmed that Holy Matrimony is a \"means of grace, thus, sacramental in character\".\n\nSince the 16th century, five competing models of marriage have shaped Protestant marriage and legal tradition:\n\nMembers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) believe that \"marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and that the family is central to the Creator's plan for the eternal destiny of His children.\" Their view of marriage is that family relationships can endure beyond the grave. This is known as 'eternal marriage' which can be eternal only when authorized priesthood holders perform the sealing ordinance in sacred temples.\n\nAlthough many Christian denominations do not currently perform same-sex marriages, many do, such as the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A), some dioceses of the Episcopal Church, the Metropolitan Community Church, Quakers, United Church of Canada, and United Church of Christ congregations, and some Anglican dioceses, for example. Same-sex marriage is recognized by various religious denominations.\n\nIslam also commends marriage, with the age of marriage being whenever the individuals feel ready, financially and emotionally.\n\nIn Islam, polygyny is allowed while polyandry is not, with the specific limitation that a man can have no more than four legal wives at any one time and an unlimited number of female slaves as concubines, with the requirement that the man is able and willing to partition his time and wealth equally among the respective wives.\n\nFor a Muslim wedding to take place, the bridegroom and the guardian of the bride (\"wali\") must both agree on the marriage. Should the guardian disagree on the marriage, it may not legally take place. If the \"wali\" of the girl her father or paternal grandfather, he has the right to force her into marriage even against her proclaimed will, if it is her first marriage. A guardian who is allowed to force the bride into marriage is called \"wali mujbir\".\n\nFrom an Islamic (Sharia) law perspective, the minimum requirements and responsibilities in a Muslim marriage are that the groom provide living expenses (housing, clothing, food, maintenance) to the bride, and in return, the bride's main responsibility is raising children to be proper Muslims. All other rights and responsibilities are to be decided between the husband and wife, and may even be included as stipulations in the marriage contract before the marriage actually takes place, so long as they do not go against the minimum requirements of the marriage.\n\nIn Sunni Islam, marriage must take place in the presence of at least two reliable witnesses, with the consent of the guardian of the bride and the consent of the groom. Following the marriage, the couple may consummate the marriage. To create an 'urf marriage, it is sufficient that a man and a woman indicate an intention to marry each other and recite the requisite words in front of a suitable Muslim. The wedding party usually follows but can be held days, or months later, whenever the couple and their families want to; however, there can be no concealment of the marriage as it is regarded as public notification due to the requirement of witnesses.\n\nIn Shia Islam, marriage may take place without the presence of witnesses as is often the case in temporary Nikah mut‘ah (prohibited in Sunni Islam), but with the consent of both the bride and the groom. Following the marriage they may consummate their marriage.\n\nIn Judaism, marriage is based on the laws of the Torah and is a contractual bond between spouses in which the spouses dedicate to be exclusive to one another. This contract is called Kiddushin. Though procreation is not the sole purpose, a Jewish marriage is also expected to fulfill the commandment to have children. The main focus centers around the relationship between the spouses. Kabbalistically, marriage is understood to mean that the spouses are merging into a single soul. This is why a man is considered \"incomplete\" if he is not married, as his soul is only one part of a larger whole that remains to be unified.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible (Christian Old Testament) describes a number of marriages, including those of Isaac (), Jacob () and Samson (). Polygyny, or men having multiple wives at once, is one of the most common marital arrangements represented in the Hebrew Bible. Today Ashkenazi Jews are prohibited to take more than one wife because of a ban instituted on this by Gershom ben Judah (Died 1040).\n\nAmong ancient Hebrews, marriage was a domestic affair and not a religious ceremony; the participation of a priest or rabbi was not required.\n\nBetrothal (\"erusin\"), which refers to the time that this binding contract is made, is distinct from marriage itself (\"nissu'in\"), with the time between these events varying substantially.\nIn biblical times, a wife was regarded as chattel, belonging to her husband; the descriptions of the Bible suggest that she would be expected to perform tasks such as spinning, sewing, weaving, manufacture of clothing, fetching of water, baking of bread, and animal husbandry. However, wives were usually looked after with care, and men with more than one wife were expected to ensure that they continue to give the first wife food, clothing, and marital rights.\n\nSince a wife was regarded as property, her husband was originally free to divorce her for any reason, at any time. Divorcing a woman against her will was also banned by Gershom ben Judah. A divorced couple were permitted to get back together, unless the wife had married someone else after her divorce.\n\nHinduism sees marriage as a sacred duty that entails both religious and social obligations. Old Hindu literature in Sanskrit gives many different types of marriages and their categorization ranging from \"Gandharva Vivaha\" (instant marriage by mutual consent of participants only, without any need for even a single third person as witness) to normal (present day) marriages, to \"Rakshasa Vivaha\" (\"demoniac\" marriage, performed by abduction of one participant by the other participant, usually, but not always, with the help of other persons). In India and generally in South Asia, arranged marriages, the spouse's parents or an older family member choose the partner, are still predominant in comparison with so called love marriages until nowadays. The Hindu Widow's Remarriage Act 1856 empowers a Hindu widow to remarry.\n\nAccording to some estimates, there wasn't even 1% of divorce among Hindu arranged marriages.\n\nThe Buddhist view of marriage considers marriage a secular affair and thus not a sacrament. Buddhists are expected to follow the civil laws regarding marriage laid out by their respective governments. Gautama Buddha, being a kshatriya was required by Shakyan tradition to pass a series of tests to prove himself as a warrior, before he was allowed to marry.\n\nIn a Sikh marriage, the couple walks around the \"Guru Granth Sahib\" holy book four times, and a holy man recites from it in the kirtan style. The ceremony is known as 'Anand Karaj' and represents the holy union of two souls united as one.\n\nWiccan marriages are commonly known as handfastings. Although handfastings vary for each Wiccan they often involve honoring Wiccan gods. Sex is considered a pious and sacred activity.\n\nMarriage, like other close relationships, exerts considerable influence on health. Married people experience lower morbidity and mortality across such diverse health threats as cancer, heart attacks, and surgery. Research on marriage and health is part of the broader study of the benefits of social relationships.\n\nSocial ties provide people with a sense of identity, purpose, belonging, and support. Simply being married, as well as the quality of one's marriage, have been linked to diverse measures of health.\n\nThe health-protective effect of marriage is stronger for men than women. Marital status—the simple fact of being married—confers more health benefits to men than women.\n\nWomen's health is more strongly impacted than men's by marital conflict or satisfaction, such that unhappily married women do not enjoy better health relative to their single counterparts. Most research on marriage and health has focused on heterosexual couples; more work is needed to clarify the health impacts of same-sex marriage.\n\nIn most societies, the death of one of the partners terminates the marriage, and in monogamous societies this allows the other partner to remarry, though sometimes after a waiting or mourning period.\n\nIn some societies, a marriage can be annulled, when an authority declares that a marriage never happened. Jurisdictions often have provisions for void marriages or voidable marriages.\n\nA marriage may also be terminated through divorce. Countries that have relatively recently legalized divorce are Italy (1970), Portugal (1975), Brazil (1977), Spain (1981), Argentina (1987), Paraguay (1991), Colombia (1991), Ireland (1996), Chile (2004) and Malta (2011). As of 2012, the Philippines and the Vatican City are the only jurisdictions which do not allow divorce (this is currently under discussion in Philippines).)\nAfter divorce, one spouse may have to pay alimony. Laws concerning divorce and the ease with which a divorce can be obtained vary widely around the world. After a divorce or an annulment, the people concerned are free to remarry (or marry).\n\nA statutory right of two married partners to mutually consent to divorce was enacted in western nations in the mid-20th century. In the United States no-fault divorce was first enacted in California in 1969 and the final state to legalize it was New York in 1989.\n\nAbout 45% of marriages in Britain and, according to a 2009 study, 46% of marriages in the U.S. end in divorce.\n\nThe history of marriage is often considered under History of the family or legal history.\n\nMany cultures have legends concerning the origins of marriage. The way in which a marriage is conducted and its rules and ramifications has changed over time, as has the institution itself, depending on the culture or demographic of the time.\nAccording to ancient Hebrew tradition, a wife was seen as being property of high value and was, therefore, usually, carefully looked after. Early nomadic communities in the middle east practised a form of marriage known as \"beena\", in which a wife would own a tent of her own, within which she retains complete independence from her husband; this principle appears to survive in parts of early Israelite society, as some early passages of the Bible appear to portray certain wives as each owning a tent as a personal possession (specifically, Jael, Sarah, and Jacob's wives).\n\nThe husband, too, is indirectly implied to have some responsibilities to his wife. The Covenant Code orders \"If he take him another; her food, her clothing, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish(or lessen)\". If the husband does not provide the first wife with these things, she is to be divorced, without cost to her. The Talmud interprets this as a requirement for a man to provide food and clothing to, and have sex with, each of his wives. However, \"duty of marriage\" is also interpreted as whatever one does as a married couple, which is more than just sexual activity. And the term diminish, which means to lessen, shows the man must treat her as if he was not married to another.\n\nAs a polygynous society, the Israelites did not have any laws that imposed marital fidelity on men. However, the prophet Malachi states that none should be faithless to the wife of his youth and that God hates divorce. Adulterous married women, adulterous betrothed women, and the men who slept with them however, were subject to the death penalty by the biblical laws against adultery According to the Priestly Code of the Book of Numbers, if a pregnant woman was suspected of adultery, she was to be subjected to the Ordeal of Bitter Water, a form of trial by ordeal, but one that took a miracle to convict. The literary prophets indicate that adultery was a frequent occurrence, despite their strong protests against it, and these legal strictnesses.\n\nIn ancient Greece, no specific civil ceremony was required for the creation of a heterosexual marriage – only mutual agreement and the fact that the couple must regard each other as husband and wife accordingly. Men usually married when they were in their 20s and women in their teens. It has been suggested that these ages made sense for the Greeks because men were generally done with military service or financially established by their late 20s, and marrying a teenage girl ensured ample time for her to bear children, as life expectancies were significantly lower. Married Greek women had few rights in ancient Greek society and were expected to take care of the house and children. Time was an important factor in Greek marriage. For example, there were superstitions that being married during a full moon was good luck and, according to Robert Flacelière, Greeks married in the winter. Inheritance was more important than feelings: a woman whose father dies without male heirs could be forced to marry her nearest male relative – even if she had to divorce her husband first.\n\nThere were several types of marriages in ancient Roman society. The traditional (\"conventional\") form called \"conventio in manum\" required a ceremony with witnesses and was also dissolved with a ceremony. In this type of marriage, a woman lost her family rights of inheritance of her old family and gained them with her new one. She now was subject to the authority of her husband. There was the free marriage known as \"sine manu\". In this arrangement, the wife remained a member of her original family; she stayed under the authority of her father, kept her family rights of inheritance with her old family and did not gain any with the new family. The minimum age of marriage for girls was 12.\n\nAmong ancient Germanic tribes, the bride and groom were roughly the same age and generally older than their Roman counterparts, at least according to Tacitus:\nThe youths partake late of the pleasures of love, and hence pass the age of puberty unexhausted: nor are the virgins hurried into marriage; the same maturity, the same full growth is required: the sexes unite equally matched and robust; and the children inherit the vigor of their parents.\nWhere Aristotle had set the prime of life at 37 years for men and 18 for women, the Visigothic Code of law in the 7th century placed the prime of life at 20 years for both men and women, after which both presumably married. Tacitus states that ancient Germanic brides were on average about 20 and were roughly the same age as their husbands. Tacitus, however, had never visited the German-speaking lands and most of his information on Germania comes from secondary sources. In addition, Anglo-Saxon women, like those of other Germanic tribes, are marked as women from the age of 12 and older, based on archaeological finds, implying that the age of marriage coincided with puberty.\n\nFrom the early Christian era (30 to 325 CE), marriage was thought of as primarily a private matter, with no uniform religious or other ceremony being required. However, bishop Ignatius of Antioch writing around 110 to bishop Polycarp of Smyrna exhorts, \"[I]t becomes both men and women who marry, to form their union with the approval of the bishop, that their marriage may be according to God, and not after their own lust.\"\n\nIn 12th-century Europe, women took the surname of their husbands and starting in the second half of the 16th century parental consent along with the church's consent was required for marriage.\n\nWith few local exceptions, until 1545, Christian marriages in Europe were by mutual consent, declaration of intention to marry and upon the subsequent physical union of the parties. The couple would promise verbally to each other that they would be married to each other; the presence of a priest or witnesses was not required. This promise was known as the \"verbum.\" If freely given and made in the present tense (e.g., \"I marry you\"), it was unquestionably binding; if made in the future tense (\"I will marry you\"), it would constitute a betrothal.\n\nIn 1552 a wedding took place in Zufia, Navarre, between Diego de Zufia and Mari-Miguel following the custom as it was in the realm since the Middle Ages, but the man denounced the marriage on the grounds that its validity was conditioned to \"riding\" her (\"si te cabalgo, lo cual dixo de bascuence (...) balvin yo baneça aren senar içateko\"). The tribunal of the kingdom rejected the husband's claim, validating the wedding, but the husband appealed to the tribunal in Zaragoza, and this institution annulled the marriage. According to the Charter of Navarre, the basic union consisted of a civil marriage with no priest required and at least two witnesses, and the contract could be broken using the same formula. The Church in turn lashed out at those who got married twice or thrice in a row while their formers spouses were still alive. In 1563 the Council of Trent, twenty-fourth session, required that a valid marriage must be performed by a priest before two witnesses.\n\nOne of the functions of churches from the Middle Ages was to register marriages, which was not obligatory. There was no state involvement in marriage and personal status, with these issues being adjudicated in ecclesiastical courts. During the Middle Ages marriages were arranged, sometimes as early as birth, and these early pledges to marry were often used to ensure treaties between different royal families, nobles, and heirs of fiefdoms. The church resisted these imposed unions, and increased the number of causes for nullification of these arrangements. As Christianity spread during the Roman period and the Middle Ages, the idea of free choice in selecting marriage partners increased and spread with it.\n\nIn Medieval Western Europe, later marriage and higher rates of definitive celibacy (the so-called \"European marriage pattern\") helped to constrain patriarchy at its most extreme level. For example, Medieval England saw marriage age as variable depending on economic circumstances, with couples delaying marriage until the early twenties when times were bad and falling to the late teens after the Black Death, when there were labor shortages; by appearances, marriage of adolescents was not the norm in England. Where the strong influence of classical Celtic and Germanic cultures (which were not rigidly patriarchal) helped to offset the Judaeo-Roman patriarchal influence, in Eastern Europe the tradition of early and universal marriage (often in early adolescence) as well as traditional Slavic patrilocal custom led to a greatly inferior status of women at all levels of society.\n\nThe average age of marriage for most of Northwestern Europe from 1500 to 1800 was around 25 years of age; as the Church dictated that both parties had to be at least 21 years of age to marry without the consent of their parents, the bride and groom were roughly the same age, with most brides in their early twenties and most grooms two or three years older, and a substantial number of women married for the first time in their thirties and forties, particularly in urban areas, with the average age at first marriage rising and falling as circumstances dictated. In better times, more people could afford to marry earlier and thus fertility rose and conversely marriages were delayed or forgone when times were bad, thus restricting family size; after the Black Death, the greater availability of profitable jobs allowed more people to marry young and have more children, but the stabilization of the population in the 16th century meant fewer job opportunities and thus more people delaying marriages.\n\nThe age of marriage was not absolute, however, as child marriages occurred throughout the Middle Ages and later, with just some of them including:\n\nAs part of the Protestant Reformation, the role of recording marriages and setting the rules for marriage passed to the state, reflecting Martin Luther's view that marriage was a \"worldly thing\". By the 17th century, many of the Protestant European countries had a state involvement in marriage.\n\nIn England, under the Anglican Church, marriage by consent and cohabitation was valid until the passage of Lord Hardwicke's Act in 1753. This act instituted certain requirements for marriage, including the performance of a religious ceremony observed by witnesses.\n\nAs part of the Counter-Reformation, in 1563 the Council of Trent decreed that a Roman Catholic marriage would be recognized only if the marriage ceremony was officiated by a priest with two witnesses. The Council also authorized a Catechism, issued in 1566, which defined marriage as \"The conjugal union of man and woman, contracted between two qualified persons, which obliges them to live together throughout life.\"\n\nIn the early modern period, John Calvin and his Protestant colleagues reformulated Christian marriage by enacting the Marriage Ordinance of Geneva, which imposed \"The dual requirements of state registration and church consecration to constitute marriage\" for recognition.\n\nIn England and Wales, Lord Hardwicke's Marriage Act 1753 required a formal ceremony of marriage, thereby curtailing the practice of Fleet Marriage, an irregular or a clandestine marriage. These were clandestine or irregular marriages performed at Fleet Prison, and at hundreds of other places. From the 1690s until the Marriage Act of 1753 as many as 300,000 clandestine marriages were performed at Fleet Prison alone. The Act required a marriage ceremony to be officiated by an Anglican priest in the Anglican Church with two witnesses and registration. The Act did not apply to Jewish marriages or those of Quakers, whose marriages continued to be governed by their own customs.\n\nIn England and Wales, since 1837, civil marriages have been recognized as a legal alternative to church marriages under the Marriage Act 1836. In Germany, civil marriages were recognized in 1875. This law permitted a declaration of the marriage before an official clerk of the civil administration, when both spouses affirm their will to marry, to constitute a legally recognized valid and effective marriage, and allowed an optional private clerical marriage ceremony.\n\nIn contemporary English common law, a marriage is a voluntary contract by a man and a woman, in which by agreement they choose to become husband and wife. Edvard Westermarck proposed that \"the institution of marriage has probably developed out of a primeval habit\".\n\nAs of 2000, the average marriage age range was 25–44 years for men and 22–39 years for women.\n\nThe mythological origin of Chinese heterosexual marriage is a story about Nüwa and Fu Xi who invented proper marriage procedures after becoming married. In ancient Chinese society, people of the same surname are supposed to consult with their family trees prior to marriage to reduce the potential risk of unintentional incest. Marrying one's maternal relatives was generally not thought of as incest. Families sometimes intermarried from one generation to another. Over time, Chinese people became more geographically mobile. Individuals remained members of their biological families. When a couple died, the husband and the wife were buried separately in the respective clan's graveyard. In a maternal marriage a male would become a son-in-law who lived in the wife's home.\n\nThe New Marriage Law of 1950 radically changed Chinese heterosexual marriage traditions, enforcing monogamy, equality of men and women, and choice in marriage; arranged marriages were the most common type of marriage in China until then. Starting October 2003, it became legal to marry or divorce without authorization from the couple's work units. Although people with infectious diseases such as AIDS may now marry, marriage is still illegal for the mentally ill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93825", "title": "Monsanto", "text": "Monsanto\n\nThe Monsanto Company () was an American agrochemical and agricultural biotechnology corporation that existed from 1901 until 2018 when it was acquired by Bayer. It was headquartered in Creve Coeur, Missouri. Monsanto developed Roundup, a glyphosate-based herbicide in the 1970s, and became a major producer of genetically engineered crops.\n\nMonsanto was one of four groups to introduce genes into plants (1983), and was among the first to conduct field trials of genetically modified crops, (1987). It was one of the top 10 U.S. chemical companies until it divested most of its chemical businesses between 1997 and 2002, through a process of mergers and spin-offs that focused the company on biotechnology. Monsanto was one of the first companies to apply the biotechnology industry business model to agriculture, using techniques developed by biotech drug companies. In this business model, companies recoup R&D expenses by exploiting biological patents.\n\nMonsanto's roles in agricultural changes, biotechnology products and lobbying of government agencies and roots as a chemical company resulted in controversies. The company once manufactured controversial products such as the insecticide DDT, PCBs, Agent Orange and recombinant bovine growth hormone. Its seed patenting model was criticized as biopiracy and a threat to biodiversity.\n\nIn September 2016, Bayer announced its intent to acquire Monsanto for US$66 billion. After gaining US and EU regulatory approval, the sale was completed on June 7, 2018.\n\nIn 1901 Monsanto was founded in St. Louis, Missouri, as a chemical company. The founder was John Francis Queeny, a 30‑year veteran of the nascent pharmaceutical industry. He funded the firm with his own money and capital from a soft drink distributor. He used his wife's maiden name for the company. The company's first products were commodity food additives, such as the artificial sweetener saccharin, caffeine and vanillin.\n\nMonsanto expanded to Europe in 1919 in a partnership with Graesser's Chemical Works at Cefn Mawr, Wales. The venture produced vanillin, aspirin and its raw ingredient salicylic acid, and later rubber processing chemicals. In the 1920s, Monsanto expanded into basic industrial chemicals such as sulfuric acid and PCBs. Queeny's son Edgar Monsanto Queeny took over the company in 1928. In 1926 the company founded and incorporated a town called Monsanto in Illinois (now known as Sauget). It was formed to provide minimal regulation and low taxes for Monsanto plants at a time when local jurisdictions had most of the responsibility for environmental rules. It was renamed in honor of Leo Sauget, its first village president.\n\nIn 1935, Monsanto bought the Swann Chemical Company in Anniston, Alabama, and thereby entered the business of producing PCBs.\n\nIn 1936, Monsanto acquired Thomas & Hochwalt Laboratories in Dayton, Ohio, to acquire the expertise of Charles Allen Thomas and Carroll A. Hochwalt. The acquisition became Monsanto's Central Research Department. Thomas spent the rest of his career at Monsanto, serving as President (1951–1960) and Board Chair (1960–1965). He retired in 1970. In 1943, Thomas was called to a meeting in Washington, D.C., with Leslie Groves, commander of the Manhattan Project, and James Conant, president of Harvard University and chairman of the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC). They urged Thomas to become co-director of the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos with Robert Oppenheimer, but Thomas was reluctant to leave Dayton and Monsanto. He joined the NDRC, and Monsanto's Central Research Department began to conduct related research. To that end, Monsanto operated the Dayton Project, and later Mound Laboratories, and assisted in the development of the first nuclear weapons.\n\nIn 1946, Monsanto developed and marketed \"All\" laundry detergent, which they sold to Lever Brothers in 1957. In 1947, its styrene factory was destroyed in the Texas City Disaster. In 1949, Monsanto acquired American Viscose from Courtaulds. In 1954, Monsanto partnered with German chemical giant Bayer to form Mobay and market polyurethanes in the United States.\n\nMonsanto began manufacturing DDT in 1944, along with some 15 other companies. This insecticide was critical to the fight against malaria-transmitting mosquitoes. Due to DDT's toxicity, it was banned in the United States in 1972. In 1977, Monsanto stopped producing PCBs; Congress banned PCB production two years later.\n\nIn the mid‑1960s, William Standish Knowles and his team invented a way to selectively synthesize enantiomers via asymmetric hydrogenation. This was the first method for the catalytic production of pure chiral compounds. Knowles' team designed the \"first industrial process to chirally synthesize an important compound\"—L‑dopa, which is used to treat Parkinson's disease. In 2001, Knowles and Ryōji Noyori won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In the mid-1960s, chemists at Monsanto developed the Monsanto process for making acetic acid, which until 2000 was the most widely used production method. In 1964, Monsanto chemists invented AstroTurf (initially ChemGrass).\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Monsanto was a producer of Agent Orange for United States Armed Forces operations in Vietnam, and settled out of court in a lawsuit brought by veterans in 1984. In 1968, it became the first company to start mass production of (visible) light-emitting diodes (LEDs), using gallium arsenide phosphide. From 1968 to 1970, sales doubled every few months. Their products (discrete LEDs and seven-segment numeric displays) became industry standards. The primary markets then were electronic calculators, digital watches and digital clocks. Monsanto became a pioneer of optoelectronics in the 1970s. Between 1968 and 1974, the company sponsored the PGA Tour event in Pensacola, Florida, which was renamed the Monsanto Open.\n\nIn 1974, Harvard University and Monsanto signed a 10-year research grant to support the cancer research of Judah Folkman, which became the largest such arrangement ever made; medical inventions arising from that research were the first for which Harvard allowed its faculty to submit patent application.\n\nMonsanto scientists were among the first to genetically modify a plant cell, publishing their results in 1983. Five years later the company conducted the first field tests of genetically modified crops. Increasing involvement in agricultural biotechnology dates from the installment of Richard Mahoney as Monsanto's CEO in 1983. This involvement increased under the leadership of Robert Shapiro, appointed CEO in 1995, leading ultimately to the disposition of product lines unrelated to agriculture.\n\nIn 1985, Monsanto acquired G. D. Searle & Company, a life sciences company that focused on pharmaceuticals, agriculture and animal health. In 1993, its Searle division filed a patent application for Celebrex, which in 1998 became the first selective COX‑2 inhibitor to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Celebrex became a blockbuster drug and was often mentioned as a key reason for Pfizer's acquisition of Monsanto's pharmaceutical business in 2002.\n\nIn 1994, Monsanto introduced a recombinant version of bovine somatotropin, brand-named Posilac. Monsanto later sold this business to Eli Lilly and Company.\n\nIn 1996, Monsanto purchased Agracetus, the biotechnology company that had generated the first transgenic cotton, soybeans, peanuts and other crops, and from which Monsanto had been licensing technology since 1991.\n\nMonsanto first entered the maize seed business when it purchased 40% of Dekalb in 1996; it purchased the remainder of the corporation in 1998. In 1997, the company first published an annual report citing Monsanto's Law, a biotechnological take on Moore's Law, indicating its future directions and exponential growth in the use of biotechnology. In 1998, Monsanto purchased Cargill's international seed business, which gave it access to sales and distribution facilities in 51 countries. In 2005, it finalized the purchase of Seminis Inc, a leading global vegetable and fruit seed company, for $1.4 billion. This made it the world's largest conventional seed company.\n\nIn 1999 Monsanto sold off NutraSweet Co. In December of the same year, Monsanto agreed to merge with Pharmacia & Upjohn, in a deal valuing the transaction at $27 billion. The agricultural division became a wholly owned subsidiary of the \"new\" Pharmacia; Monsanto's medical research division, which included products such as Celebrex.\n\nIn 2000: Pharmacia spun off its agro-biotech subsidiary into a new company, the \"new Monsanto\", focused on four key agricultural crops—soybeans, maize, wheat and cotton. Monsanto agreed to indemnify Pharmacia against potential liabilities from judgments against Solutia. As a result, the new Monsanto continued to be a party to numerous lawsuits over the prior Monsanto. Pharmacia was bought by Pfizer in 2003.)\n\nIn 2005 Monsanto acquired Emergent Genetics and its Stoneville and NexGen cotton brands. Emergent was the third largest U.S. cotton seed company, with about 12% of the U.S. market. Monsanto's goal was to obtain \"a strategic cotton germplasm and traits platform.\" \n\nAlso in 2005, Monsanto purchased Seminis, the California-based world leader in vegetable seed production, for $1.4 billion. Seminis developed new vegetable varieties using advanced cross-pollination methods. Monsanto indicated that Seminis would continue with non-GM development, while not ruling out GM in the longer term.\n\nIn June 2007, Monsanto purchased Delta and Pine Land Company, a major cotton seed breeder, for $1.5 billion. As a condition for approval from the Department of Justice, Monsanto was obligated to divest its Stoneville cotton business, which it sold to Bayer, and to divest its NexGen cotton business, which it sold to Americot. Monsanto also exited the pig-breeding business by selling Monsanto Choice Genetics to Newsham Genetics LC in November, divesting itself of \"any and all swine-related patents, patent applications, and all other intellectual property\". In 2007, Monsanto and BASF announced a long-term agreement to cooperate in the research, development, and marketing of new plant biotechnology products.\n\nIn 2008, Monsanto purchased Dutch seed company De Ruiter Seeds for €546 million, and sold its POSILAC bovine somatotropin brand and related business to Elanco Animal Health, a division of Eli Lilly & Co, in August for $300 million plus \"additional contingent consideration\".\n\nIn 2012 Monsanto purchased for $210 million Precision Planting Inc., a company that produced computer hardware and software designed to enable farmers to increase yield and productivity through more precise planting.\n\nIn 2013 Monsanto purchased San Francisco-based Climate Corp for $930 million. Climate Corp. makes local weather forecasts for farmers based on data modelling and historical data; if the forecasts were wrong, the farmer was compensated. \n\nIn 2015 Monsanto tried to acquire Swiss agro-biotechnology rival, Syngenta, for US$46.5 billion, but failed. In 2015 Monsanto was the world's biggest supplier of seeds, controlling 26% of the global seed market (Du Pont was second with 21%). Monsanto is the only manufacturer of white phosphorus for military use in the US.\n\nIn September 2016, Monsanto agreed to be acquired by Bayer for US$66 billion. In an effort to receive regulatory clearance for the deal, Bayer announced the sale of significant portions of its current agriculture businesses, including its seed and herbicide businesses, to BASF.\n\nThe deal was approved by the European Union on March 21, 2018, and approved in the United States on May 29, 2018. The sale closed on June 7, 2018; Bayer announced its intent to discontinue the Monsanto name, with the combined company operating solely under the Bayer brand.\n\nFollowing its 1970 introduction, Monsanto's last commercially relevant United States patent on the herbicide glyphosate (brand name RoundUp) expired in 2000. Glyphosate has since been marketed by many agrochemical companies, in various solution strengths and with various adjuvants, under dozens of tradenames. As of 2009, glyphosate represented about 10% of Monsanto's revenue. Roundup-related products (which include genetically modified seeds) represented about half of Monsanto's gross margin.\n\nAs of 2015, Monsanto's line of seed products included corn, cotton, soy and vegetable seeds.\n\nMany of Monsanto's agricultural seed products are genetically modified, such as for resistance to herbicides, including glyphosate and dicamba. Monsanto calls glyphosate-tolerant seeds \"Roundup Ready\". Monsanto's introduction of this system (planting a glyphosate-resistant seed and then applying glyphosate once plants emerged) allowed farmers to increase yield by planting rows closer together. Without it, farmers had to plant rows far enough apart to allow the control of post-emergent weeds with mechanical tillage. Farmers widely adopted the technology—for example over 80% of maize (Mon 832), soybean (MON-Ø4Ø32-6), cotton, sugar beet and canola planted in the United States are glyphosate-tolerant. Monsanto developed a Roundup Ready genetically modified wheat (MON 71800) but ended development in 2004 due to concerns from wheat exporters about the rejection of genetically modified (GM) wheat by foreign markets.\n\nTwo patents were critical to Monsanto's GM soybean business; one expired in 2011 and the other in 2014. The second expiration meant that glyphosate resistant soybeans became \"generic\". The first harvest of generic glyphosate-tolerant soybeans came in 2015. Monsanto broadly licensed the patent to other seed companies that include glyphosate resistance trait in their seed products. About 150 companies have licensed the technology, including competitors Syngenta and DuPont Pioneer.\n\nMonsanto invented and sells genetically modified seeds that make a crystalline insecticidal protein from \"Bacillus thuringiensis\", known as Bt. In 1995 Monsanto's potato plants producing Bt toxin were approved by the Environmental Protection Agency, following approval by the FDA, making it the first pesticide-producing crop to be approved in the United States. Monsanto subsequently developed Bt maize (MON 802, MON 809, MON 863, MON 810), Bt soybean and Bt cotton.\n\nMonsanto produces seed that has multiple genetic modifications, also known as \"stacked traits\"—for instance, cotton that make one or more Bt proteins and is resistant to glyphosate. One of these, created in collaboration with Dow Chemical Company, is called SmartStax. In 2011 Monsanto launched the Genuity brand for its stacked-trait products.\n\nAs of 2012, the agricultural seed lineup included \"Roundup Ready\" alfalfa, canola and sugarbeet; Bt and/or \"Roundup Ready\" cotton; sorghum hybrids; soybeans with various oil profiles, most with the \"Roundup Ready\" trait; and a wide range of wheat products, many of which incorporate the nontransgenic \"clearfield\" imazamox-tolerant trait from BASF.\n\nIn 2013 Monsanto launched the first transgenic drought tolerance trait in a line of corn hybrids branded DroughtGard. The MON 87460 trait is provided by the insertion of the cspB gene from the soil microbe \"Bacillus subtilis\"; it was approved by the USDA in 2011 and by China in 2013.\n\nThe \"Xtend Crop System\" includes seed genetically modified to be resistant to both glyphosate and dicamba, and a herbicide product including those two active ingredients. In December 2014, the system was approved for use in the US. In February 2016, China approved the Roundup Ready 2 Xtend system. The lack of European Union approval led many American traders to reject the use of Xtend soybeans over concerns that the new seeds would become mixed with EU-approved seeds, leading Europe to reject American soybean exports.\n\nIn 2009, Monsanto scientists discovered insects that had developed resistance to the Bt Cotton planted in Gujarat. Monsanto communicated this to the Indian government and its customers, stating that \"Resistance is natural and expected, so measures to delay resistance are important. Among the factors that may have contributed to pink bollworm resistance to the Cry1Ac protein in Bollgard I in Gujarat are limited refuge planting and early use of unapproved Bt cotton seed, planted prior to GEAC approval of Bollgard I cotton, which may have had lower protein expression levels.\" The company advised farmers to switch to its second generation of Bt cotton – Bolguard II – which had two resistance genes instead of one. However, this advice was criticized: \"an internal analysis of the statement of the Ministry of Environment and Forests says it 'appears that this could be a business strategy to phase out single gene events [that is, the first-generation Bollgard I product] and promote double genes [the second generation Bollgard II] which would fetch higher price.'\"\n\nMonsanto's GM cotton seed was the subject of NGO agitation because of its higher cost. Indian farmers crossed GM varieties with local varieties, using plant breeding, violating their agreements with Monsanto. In 2009, high prices of Bt Cotton were blamed for forcing farmers of Jhabua district into debt when the crops died due to lack of rain.\n\nIn 2012 Monsanto was the world's largest supplier of non-GE vegetable seeds by value, with sales of $800M. 95% of the research and development for vegetable seed is in conventional breeding. The company concentrates on improving flavor. According to their website they sell \"4,000 distinct seed varieties representing more than 20 species\". Broccoli, with the brand name \"Beneforté\", with increased amounts of glucoraphanin was introduced in 2010 following development by its Seminis subsidiary.\n\nUntil it ended production in 1977, Monsanto was the source of 99% of the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) used by U.S. industry. They were sold under brand names including Aroclor and Santotherm; the name Santotherm is still used for non-chlorinated products. PCBs are a persistent organic pollutant, and cause cancer in both animal and humans, among other health effects. PCBs were initially welcomed due to the electrical industry's need for durable, safer (than flammable mineral oil) cooling and insulating fluid for industrial transformers and capacitors. PCBs were also commonly used as stabilizing additives in the manufacture of flexible PVC coatings for electrical wiring and in electronic components to enhance PVC heat and fire resistance. As transformer leaks occurred and toxicity problems arose near factories, their durability and toxicity became recognized as serious problems. PCB production was banned by the U.S. Congress in 1979 and by the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2001.\n\nMonsanto, Dow Chemical, and eight other chemical companies made Agent Orange for the U.S. Department of Defense. It was given its name from the color of the orange-striped barrels in which it was shipped, and was by far the most widely used of the so-called \"Rainbow Herbicides\".\n\nMonsanto developed and sold recombinant bovine somatotropin (also known as rBST and rBGH), a synthetic hormone that increases milk production by 11–16% when injected into cows. In October 2008, Monsanto sold this business to Eli Lilly for $300 million plus additional considerations.\n\nThe use of rBST remains controversial with respect to its effects on cows and their milk.\n\nIn some markets, milk from cows that are not treated with rBST is sold with labels indicating that it is rBST-free: this milk has proved popular with consumers. In reaction to this, in early 2008 a pro-rBST advocacy group called \"American Farmers for the Advancement and Conservation of Technology\" (AFACT), made up of dairies and originally affiliated with Monsanto, formed and began lobbying to ban such labels. AFACT stated that \"absence\" labels can be misleading and imply that milk from cows treated with rBST is inferior.\n\nMonsanto also developed notable technologies that were not ultimately commercialized.\n\nGenetic use restriction technology, colloquially known as \"terminator technology\", produces plants with sterile seeds. This trait would prevent the spread of those seeds into the wild. It also would prevent farmers from planting seeds they harvest, requiring them to purchase seed for every planting, allowing the company to enforce its licensing terms via technology. Farmers have been buying hybrid seeds for generations, instead of replanting their harvest, because second-generation hybrid seeds are inferior. Nevertheless, most seed companies contract only with farmers who agree not to plant harvested seeds.\n\nTerminator technology has been developed by governmental labs, university researchers and companies. The technology has not been used commercially. Rumors that Monsanto and other companies intended to introduce terminator technology caused protests, for example in India.\n\nIn 1999, Monsanto pledged not to commercialize terminator technology. The Delta & Pine Land Company of Mississippi intended to commercialize the technology, but D&PL was acquired by Monsanto in 2007.\n\nMonsanto developed several strains of genetically modified wheat, including glyphosate-resistant strains, in the 1990s. Field tests were done in the United States between 1998 and 2005. As of 2017, no genetically modified wheat has been released for commercial use.\n\nMonsanto is internationally notable for its involvement in high-profile lawsuits, as both plaintiff and defendant. It defended lawsuits mostly over its products' health and environmental effects. Monsanto used the courts to enforce its patents, particularly in agricultural biotechnology, an approach similar to that of other companies in the field, such as Dupont Pioneer and Syngenta. Monsanto also became one of the most vilified large corporations in the world, over a range of issues involving its industrial and agricultural chemical products, and GM seed. In April, 2018, just prior to Bayer's acquisition, Bayer indicated that improving Monsanto's reputation represented a major challenge. That June, Bayer announced it would drop the Monsanto name as part of a campaign to regain consumer trust. \n\nArgentina approved \"Roundup Ready\" soy in 1996. Between 1996 and 2008 soy production grew from 14 million acres to 42 million acres. The growth was driven by Argentine investors' interest in export markets. The consolidation led to a decrease in production of many staples such as milk, rice, maize, potatoes and lentils. As of 2004 about 150,000 small farmers had left the countryside; including 50% as of 2009 in the Chaco region.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that a Monsanto representative had said, \"any problems with GM soya were to do with use of the crop as a monoculture, not because it was GM. If you grow any crop to the exclusion of any other you are bound to get problems.\"\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Monsanto attempted to enforce its patents on soymeal imported into Spain from Argentina by having Spanish customs officials seize the soymeal shipments. This has been an attempt made by Monsanto to put pressure on the Argentinian government for allowing them to enforce their seed patents in Argentina as well.\n\nIn 2013 environmentalist groups objected to a Monsanto corn seed conditioning facility in Malvinas Argentinas, Córdoba. Neighbours objected to the risk of environmental impact. Court rulings supported the project, but environmentalist groups organised demonstrations and opened an online petition for the subject to be decided in a popular referendum. The court rulings stipulated that while construction could continue, the facility could not begin operating until the environmental impact report required by law had been duly presented.\n\nIn 2016 Monsanto reached an agreement with Argentina's government on soybean seed royalty payments. Monsanto agreed to give the Argentine Seed Institute (Inase) oversight over crops grown from Monsanto's Intacta genetically modified soybean seeds. Before the agreement, Argentine farmers generally avoided royalties by using seeds from previous harvests or purchased from non-registered suppliers. Inase agreed to delegate testing to grain exchanges. About 6 million sample tests were to be conducted annually. Seeds that appear to be GMOs may be tested again using a polymerase chain reaction test.\n\nBrazil is the second largest producer of GMO soy. Expanding soy cultivation led to large-scale deforestation and displacement of small-scale rural farmers. Brazil approved GM crops in 1998, but advocacy groups successfully sued to overturn the approval. In 2003 Brazil allowed a one-year exemption when GM soy was found in fields planted in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. This was a controversial decision, and in response, the Landless Workers' Movement protested by invading and occupying several Monsanto farm plots used for research, training and seed-processing. In 2005 Brazil passed a law creating a regulatory pathway for GM crops. Agriculture minister Roberto Rodrigues stated, \"Brazilian soy farmers, who have used cloned or smuggled versions of the biotechnology company's Roundup Ready variety for years, will no longer have to worry about breaking the law or facing legal action from Monsanto as long as regulators approve the seeds for planting.\"\n\nMonsanto was criticized by Chinese economist Larry Lang for controlling the Chinese soybean market, and for trying to do the same to Chinese corn and cotton.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, public attention was drawn to suicides by indebted farmers following crop failures. For example, in the early 2000s, farmers in Andhra Pradesh (AP) were in economic crisis due to high-interest rates and crop failures, leading to widespread unrest and farmer suicides. Monsanto was one focus of protests with respect to the price and yields of Bt seed. In 2005, the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee, the Indian regulatory authority, released a study on field tests of certain Bt cotton strains in AP and ruled that Monsanto could not market those strains in AP because of poor yields. At about the same time, the state agriculture minister barred the company from selling Bt cotton seed, because Monsanto refused a request by the state government to provide pay about Rs 4.5 crore (about one million US$) to indebted farmers in some districts, and because the government blamed Monsanto's seeds for crop failures. The order was later lifted.\n\nIn 2006, AP tried to convince Monsanto to reduce the price of Bt seeds. Unsatisfied, the state filed several cases against Monsanto and its Mumbai-based licensee, Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds. Research by International Food Policy Research Institute found no evidence supporting an increased suicide rate following the introduction of Bt cotton and that Bt cotton. The report stated that farmer suicides predated commercial introduction in 2002 (and unofficial introduction in 2001) and that such suicides had made up a fairly constant portion of the overall national suicide rate since 1997. The report concluded that while Bt cotton may have been a factor in specific suicides, the contribution was likely marginal compared to socio-economic factors. As of 2009, Bt cotton was planted in 87% of Indian cotton-growing land.\n\nCritics including Vandana Shiva said that the crop failures could \"often be traced to\" Monsanto's Bt cotton, that the seeds increased farmer indebtedness and argued that Monsanto misrepresented the profitability of their Bt Cotton, causing losses leading to debt. In 2009, Shiva wrote that Indian farmers who had previously spent as little as ₹7 (rupees) per kilogram were now paying up to ₹17,000 per kilo per year for Bt cotton. In 2012 the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Central Cotton Research Institute (CCRI) stated that for the first time farmer suicides could be linked to a decline in the performance of Bt cotton, and advised, \"cotton farmers are in a deep crisis since shifting to Bt cotton. The spate of farmer suicides in 2011–12 has been particularly severe among Bt cotton farmers.\"\n\nIn 2004, in response to an order from the Bombay High Court the Tata Institute produced a report on farmer suicides in Maharashtra in 2005. The survey cited \"government apathy, the absence of a safety net for farmers, and lack of access to information related to agriculture as the chief causes for the desperate condition of farmers in the state.\"\n\nVarious studies identified the important factors as insufficient or risky credit systems, the difficulty of farming semi-arid regions, poor agricultural income, absence of alternative income opportunities, a downturn in the urban economy which forced non-farmers into farming and the absence of suitable counseling services. ICAR and CCRI stated that the cost of cotton cultivation had jumped as a consequence of rising pesticide costs, while total Bt cotton production in the five years from 2007 to 2012 had declined.\n\nBrofiscin Quarry was used as a waste site from about 1965 to 1972 and accepted waste from BP, Veolia and Monsanto. A 2005 report by Environmental Agency Wales (EAW) found that the quarry contained up to 75 toxic substances, including heavy metals, Agent Orange and PCBs.\n\nIn February 2011, Monsanto agreed to help with the costs of remediation, but did not accept responsibility for the pollution. In 2011, EAW and the Rhondda Cynon Taf council announced that they had decided to place an engineered cap over the waste mass, and stated that the cost would be £1.5 million; previous estimates had been as high as £100 million.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the Monsanto plant in Sauget, Illinois, was the nation's largest producer of PCBs, which remained in the water along Dead Creek there. An EPA official referred to Sauget as \"one of the most polluted communities in the region\" and \"a soup of different chemicals\".\n\nIn Anniston, Alabama, plaintiffs in a 2002 lawsuit provided documentation showing that the local Monsanto factory knowingly discharged both mercury and PCB-laden waste into local creeks for over 40 years. In 1969 Monsanto dumped 45 tons of PCBs into Snow Creek, a feeder for Choccolocco Creek, which supplies much of the area's drinking water, and buried millions of pounds of PCB in open-pit landfills located on hillsides above the plant and surrounding neighborhoods. In August 2003, Solutia and Monsanto agreed to pay plaintiffs $700 million to settle claims by over 20,000 Anniston residents.\n\nAs of November 2013, Monsanto was associated with nine \"active\" Superfund sites and 32 \"archived\" sites in the US, in the EPA's Superfund database. Monsanto was sued and settled multiple times for damaging the health of its employees or residents near its Superfund sites through pollution and poisoning.\n\nIn 2013 a Monsanto-developed strain of glyphosate-resistant wheat (a GMO) was discovered on a farm in Oregon, growing as a weed or \"volunteer plant\". The final Oregon field test had occurred in 2001. As of May 2013, the GMO seed source was unknown. Volunteer wheat from a former test field two miles away was tested and was not found to be glyphosate-tolerant. Monsanto faced penalties up to $1 million over potential violations of the Plant Protection Act. The discovery threatened world-leading US wheat exports, which totaled $8.1 billion in 2012. This wheat variety was rarely exported to Europe and was more likely destined for Asia. Monsanto said it had destroyed all the material it held after completing trials in 2004 and it was \"mystified\" by its appearance. On June 14, 2013, the USDA announced: \"As of today, USDA has neither found nor been informed of anything that would indicate that this incident amounts to more than a single isolated incident in a single field on a single farm. All information collected so far shows no indication of the presence of GE wheat in commerce.\" As of August 30, 2013, while the source of the GM wheat remained unknown, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan had all resumed placing orders.\n\nMonsanto has faced controversy in the United States over claims that its herbicide products might be carcinogens. There is limited evidence that human cancer risk might increase as a result of occupational exposure to large amounts of glyphosate, as in agricultural work, but no good evidence of such a risk from home use, such as in domestic gardening. The consensus among national pesticide regulatory agencies and scientific organizations is that labeled uses of glyphosate have demonstrated no evidence of human carcinogenicity. Organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agriculture Organization, European Commission, Canadian Pest Management Regulatory Agency, and the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment have concluded that there is no evidence that glyphosate poses a carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans. Only one international scientific organization, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), affiliated with the WHO, has made claims of carcinogenicity in research reviews. The IARC has been criticized for its assessment methodology by failing to consider the broad literature and only assessing hazard rather than risk.\n\nOver 8,000 cancer patients are suing Monsanto in numerous state courts for failure to warn the public about the risk of cancer associated with the glyphosate-based weedkiller Roundup after the IARC report in 2015 linking glyphosate to cancer in humans. Monsanto denies that Roundup is carcinogenic.\n\nIn March 2017, 40 plaintiffs filed a lawsuit at the Alameda County Superior Court, a branch of the California Superior Court, asking for damages caused by the company’s glyphosate-based weed-killers, including Roundup, and demanding a jury trial. On August 10, 2018, Monsanto lost the first decided case. Dewayne Johnson, who has non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, was initially awarded $289 million dollars in damages after a jury in San Francisco said that Monsanto had failed to adequately warn consumers of cancer risks posed by the herbicide, but the award pending appeal was later reduced to $78.5 million dollars. In November 2018, Monsanto appealed the judgement asking an appellate court to consider a motion for a new trial.\n\nA worldwide protest against Monsanto and GMOs took place on May 25, 2013. The number of protesters who took part is uncertain; figures of \"hundreds of thousands\" or \"two million\" were variously cited. According to organizers, protesters in 436 cities and 52 countries took part.\n\nOrganizers planned a second day of protests in May 2014, and in a statement released before the event said that millions of activists would join marches in over 400 cities in 52 countries on six continents. The day of protest took place on May 24.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2011, Monsanto improperly accounted for incentive rebates. The actions inflated Monsanto's reported profit by $31 million over the two years. Monsanto paid $80 million in penalties pursuant to a subsequent settlement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Monsanto materially misstated its consolidated earnings in response to losing market share of Roundup to generic producers. Monsanto overhauled its internal controls. Two of their top CPAs were suspended and Monsanto was required to hire, at their expense, an independent ethics/compliance consultant for two years.\n\nA review of glyphosate's carcinogenic potential by four independent expert panels, with a comparison to the IARC assessment, was published in September 2016. Using emails released in August 2017 by plaintiffs' lawyers who are suing Monsanto, \"Bloomberg Business Week\" reported that \"Monsanto scientists were heavily involved in organizing, reviewing, and editing drafts submitted by the outside experts.\" A Monsanto spokesperson responded that Monsanto had provided only non-substantive cosmetic copyediting.\n\nMonsanto regularly lobbies the US government with expenses reaching $8.8 million in 2008 and $6.3 million in 2011. In comparison, the 20th highest spender, Pfizer, spent $12.9 million. $2 million was spent on matters concerning \"Foreign Agriculture Biotechnology Laws, Regulations, and Trade\". Some US diplomats in Europe at other times worked directly for Monsanto.\n\nMonsanto made political contributions of $186,250 to federal candidates in the 2008 election cycle through its political action committee (PAC) (42% to Democrats, 58% to Republicans) and $305,749 in the 2010 election cycle (48% Democrat, 52% Republicans).\n\nCalifornia's 2012 Proposition 37 would have mandated the disclosure of genetically modified crops used in the production of California food products. Monsanto spent $8.1 million opposing passage, making it the largest contributor against the initiative. The proposition was rejected by a 53.7% majority. Labeling is not required in the US.\n\nIn 2009 Michael R. Taylor, food safety expert and former Monsanto VP for Public Policy became a Senior Advisor to the FDA Commissioner.\n\nMonsanto is a member of the Washington D.C based Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), the world's largest biotechnology trade association, which provides \"advocacy, business development, and communications services.\" Between 2010 and 2011 BIO spent a total of $16.43 million on lobbying.\n\nThe Monsanto Company Citizenship Fund aka Monsanto Citizenship Fund is a political action committee that donated over $10 million to various candidates from 2003 to 2013.\n\nAs of October 2013, Monsanto and DuPont Co. continued backing an anti-labeling campaign, spending roughly $18 million. The state of Washington, along with 26 other states, made proposals in November to require GMO labeling.\n\nIn the US regulatory environment, many individuals move back and forth between positions in the public and private sectors, including at Monsanto. Critics argued that the connections between the company and the government allowed Monsanto to obtain favorable regulations at the expense of consumer safety. Supporters of the practice point to the benefits of competent and experienced individuals in both sectors and to the importance of appropriately managing potential conflicts of interest. The list of such people includes:\n\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Monsanto lobbied to raise permitted glyphosate levels in soybeans and was successful in convincing Codex Alimentarius and both the UK and US governments to lift levels 200 times to 20 milligrams per kilogram of soya. When asked how negotiations with Monsanto were conducted, Lord Donoughue, then the Labour Party Agriculture minister in the House of Lords, stated that all information relating to the matter would be \"kept secret\". During the 24 months prior to the 1997 British election Monsanto representatives had 22 meetings at the departments of Agriculture and the Environment. Stanley Greenberg, an election advisor to Tony Blair, later worked as a Monsanto consultant. Former Labour spokesperson David Hill, became Monsanto's media adviser at the lobbying firm Bell Pottinger. The Labour government was challenged in Parliament about \"trips, facilities, gifts and other offerings of financial value provided by Monsanto to civil servants\", but only acknowledged that Department of Trade and Industry had two working lunches with Monsanto. Peter Luff, then a Conservative Party MP and Chairman of the Agriculture Select Committee, received up to £10,000 a year from Bell Pottinger on behalf of Monsanto.\n\nIn January 2011, WikiLeaks documents suggested that US diplomats in Europe responded to a request for help from the Spanish government. One report stated, \"In addition, the cables show US diplomats working directly for GM companies such as Monsanto. 'In response to recent urgent requests by [Spanish rural affairs ministry] state secretary Josep Puxeu and Monsanto, post requests renewed US government support of Spain's science-based agricultural biotechnology position through high-level US government intervention.'\" The leaked documents showed that in 2009, when the Spanish government's policy approving MON810 was under pressure from EU interests, Monsanto's Director for Biotechnology for Spain and Portugal requested that the US government support Spain on the matter. The leaks indicated that Spain and the US had worked closely together to \"persuade the EU not to strengthen biotechnology laws\". Spain was viewed as a key GMO supporter and a leading indicator of support across the continent. The leaks also revealed that in response to an attempt by France to ban MON810 in late 2007, then-US ambassador to France, Craig Roberts Stapleton, asked Washington to \"calibrate a targeted retaliation list that [would cause] some pain across the EU\", targeting countries that did not support the use of GM crops. This activity transpired after the US, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico and New Zealand had brought an action against Europe via the World Trade Organization with respect to the EU's banning of GMOs; in 2006, the WTO had ruled against the EU.\n\nMonsanto was a member of EuropaBio, the leading biotechnology trade group in Europe. One of EuropaBio's initiatives is \"Transforming Europe's position on GM food\". It found \"an urgent need to reshape the terms of the debate about GM in Europe\". EuropaBio proposed the recruitment of high-profile \"ambassadors\" to lobby EU officials.\n\nIn September 2017 Monsanto lobbyists were banned from the European parliament after the Monsanto refused to attend a parliamentary hearing into allegations of regulatory interference.\n\nAfter the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Monsanto donated $255,000 for disaster relief and 60,000 seed sacks (475 tons) of hybrid (non-GM) corn and vegetable seeds worth $4 million. However, a Catholic Relief Services (CRS) rapid assessment of seed supply and demand for the five most common food security crops found that the Haitians had enough seed and recommended that imported seeds be introduced only on a small scale. Emmanuel Prophete, head of Haiti's Ministry of Agriculture's Service National Semencier (SNS), stated that SNS was not opposed to the hybrid maize seeds because they at least double yields. Louise Sperling, Principal Researcher at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) told HGW that she was not opposed to hybrids, but noted that most hybrids required extra water and better soils and that most of Haiti was not appropriate for hybrids.\n\nActivists objected that some of the seeds were coated with the fungicides Maxim or thiram. In the United States, pesticides containing thiram are banned in home garden products because most home gardeners do not have adequate protection. Activists wrote that the coated seeds were handled in a dangerous manner by the recipients.\n\nThe donated seeds were sold at a reduced price in local markets. However, farmers feared that they were being given seeds that would \"threaten local varieties\" and an estimated 8,000–12,000 farmers attended a protest of the donation on June 4, 2010, organized by a Haitian farmers' association, the Peasant Movement of Papay, where a small pile of seeds was symbolically burned.\n\nMonsanto has engaged in various public relations campaigns to improve its image and public perception of some of its products. These include developing a relationship with scientist Richard Doll with respect to Agent Orange. Other campaigns include the joint funding with other biotech companies for the website GMO Answers.\n\n\nIn 2009 Monsanto was chosen as \"Forbes\" magazine's company of the year. In 2010 Swiss research firm Covalence rated Monsanto least ethical of 581 multinational corporations based on their EthicalQuote reputation tracking index which \"aggregates thousands of positive and negative news items published by the media, companies, and stakeholders\". without attempt to validate sources. The journal \"Science\" ranked Monsanto in its Top 20 Employers list between 2011 and 2014. In 2012, it described the company as \"innovative leader in the industry\", \"makes changes needed\" and \"does important quality research\". Monsanto executive Robert Fraley won the World Food Prize for \"breakthrough achievements in founding, developing, and applying modern agricultural biotechnology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35811924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35811924", "title": "My Stroke of Insight", "text": "My Stroke of Insight\n\nMy Stroke of Insight (2008) is a non-fiction book by American author Jill Bolte Taylor. In it, she tells of her experience in 1996 of having a stroke in her left hemisphere, and how that gave her insight into brain functioning, particularly as it relates to the different functions of the two brain hemispheres. It is Taylor's first book.\n\nDesmond O'Neill, M.D. writes in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\", that although the account is gripping and insightful, that it is \"burdened by an interpretation of stroke through the narrow lens of hemispheric function.\" He also argues that the advice Taylor gives to stroke patients might not be valuable for all stroke patients.\n\nThe book was initially released in October 2006 as a paperback by the author through the self-publishing company Lulu. It was then sold to Viking and published in hardcover, by Viking, on May 12, 2008 (). Audio and E-book versions were also released. The paperback edition was released May 26, 2009, by Plume ().\n\nCedar Lake Ballet Company made a ballet about \"My Stroke of Insight\" called \"Orbo Novo\". The piece's title is drawn from a 1493 reference to North America by Spanish historian Pietro Martire d'Anghiera. But the \"new world\" that Cherkaoui is exploring is current theories about the brain, and the text that the 17 dancers speak during the first moments of the 75-minute work comes from \"My Stroke of Insight\", neuroanatomist Jill Bolte Taylor's uncanny recollection of her stroke. The choreography is based on the ramifications of a single resonant idea: the duality between rationality (the left brain) and instinctive, sensual responses (the right brain); between control and the lack of it; between balance and instability, solitude and society. \"Thus were the dancers speaking Taylor's words (“My spirit soared free like a great whale gliding through the sea of silent euphoria”), while they physically embodied brain waves and misfiring synapses, with a nod, perhaps, to the double helix: rubbery splayed limbs; über-arched backs; ever-rippling torsos.\" “‘Orbo Novo’ is a humorous and insightful take on (Taylor’s) story,” said dancer Jubal Battisti. “It has a lot to do with the hemispheres of the brain switching between left and right and what that reveals.” \n\n"}
{"id": "51540781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51540781", "title": "My Talking Tom", "text": "My Talking Tom\n\nMy Talking Tom is a virtual pet app developed by Slovenian studio Outfit7 in November 2013. It is similar to \"Pou\" and the fourteenth app of the Talking Tom and Friends series overall. A similar app called \"My Talking Angela\" was released in December 3, 2014. Another similar app called \"My Talking Hank\" was released in January 12, 2017. A sequel, \"My Talking Tom 2\", was released in November 3, 2018.\n\nThe official English slogan is \"Customize Your Tom!\".\n\nIn 2015, the UK Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) ruled that advertising for an adult web site was delivered to underage children via the app. The ASA noted that Outfit7 \"had a strict advertising policy\" but that the company \"had not been able to identify which ad network had served the ad.\"\n\nThe goal of the game is to take care of an anthropomorphic kitten named \"Tom\" (who can optionally be renamed by the player). The player is invited to care for \"Tom\" and help him grow from a baby kitten to a full-grown tomcat by interacting with him in different ways, such as feeding him, taking him to the bathroom, playing mini games, and tucking him into his bed to sleep when he is tired. Tom can repeat words spoken into the device's microphone for up to 25 seconds using a synthesized voice. Through in-app purchases, in-game currency, or by logging into Facebook, there is an option to visit Tom's friends, or travel around the world. Using in-game currency, various different outfits, skins, and accessories can be purchased to dress-up and customize Tom.\n\nThe Talking Tom itself is one of most famous video game chargers and often was a marketing brand (sometimes without the official consent with its creator, Outfit7). The character is called as the \"world`s most popular cat\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6130040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130040", "title": "Post-mortem photography", "text": "Post-mortem photography\n\nPost-mortem photography (also known as memorial portraiture or a mourning portrait) is the practice of photographing the recently deceased. Various cultures use and have used this practice, though the best-studied area of post-mortem photography is that of Europe and America. There can be considerable dispute as to whether individual early photographs actually show a dead person or not, often sharpened by commercial considerations.\n\nThe form continued the tradition of earlier painted mourning portraits. Today post-mortem photography is most common in the contexts of police and pathology work.\n\nThe invention of the daguerreotype in 1839 made portraiture much more commonplace, as many of those who were unable to afford the commission of a painted portrait could afford to sit for a photography session. This cheaper and quicker method also provided the middle class with a means for memorializing dead loved ones.\n\nPost-mortem photography was very common in the nineteenth century when \"death occurred in the home and was quite an ordinary part of life.\" As photography was a new medium, it is plausible that \"many daguerreotype post-mortem portraits, especially those of infants and young children, were probably the only photographs ever made of the sitters. The long exposure time made deceased subjects easy to photograph.'\" (The problem of long exposure times also led to the phenomenon of hidden mother photography, where the mother was hidden in-frame to calm a young child and keep them still.) According to Mary Warner Marien, \"post-mortem photography flourished in photography's early decades, among clients who preferred to capture an image of a deceased loved one rather than have no photograph at all.\"\n\nThese photographs served as keepsakes to remember the deceased. The later invention of the carte de visite, which allowed multiple prints to be made from a single negative, meant that copies of the image could be mailed to relatives. Approaching the 20th century, cameras became more accessible and more people began to be able to take photographs for themselves.\n\nIn America, post-mortem photography became an increasingly private practice by the mid-to-late nineteenth century, with discussion moving out of trade journals and public discussion. The now more private practice was studied by anthropologist Jay Ruby who was able to find limited information after the turn of the century, but noted a resurgence in the so-called \"mourning tableaux\" - where the living were photographed surrounding the coffin of the deceased, sometimes with the deceased visible - in America in the 1930s. He was also able to find examples of death photography as a private practice in America his own time - the 1960s. Barbara Norfleet investigated further and discovered the practice of post-mortem photography continued in America right up until World War II \"at least among rural and urban working-and middle-class families [in ethnic minorities].\" Her conclusion centred on the work of African-American portrait photographer James Van Der Zee in Harlem from 1917-1940s, whose \"Harlem Book of the Dead\" is a collection post-mortem portraits of other African Americans in Harlem over the course of his career. \n\nIn Britain, Audrey Linkman found a similar continuation of post-mortem photography in the inter-war years, indicating the practice was not limited to the Victorian Era in Britain, though she said little about wider Europe. She also was a strong supporter of Barbara Norfleet's research into the ethnic minorities and middle-classes of America, insisting that post-mortem photography remained popular among these groups for far longer than the upper classes who had previously been studied.\n\nPost-mortem photography as early as the 1970s was taken up by artists, and continues today. Audrey Linkman, Christopher Townsend and Lauren Summersgill have all researched this particular area of study. Artists include Jeffrey Silverthorne, Hans Danuser, Hannah Wilke, Nick Wapping, British photographer Sue Fox, Nan Golden, and Andres Serrano's series \"The Morgue.\" Summersgill argues that artists in America in the 1990s used post-mortem photography to fight against the increasing medicalisation of death.\n\nPersonal post-mortem photography is considered to be largely private, with the exception of the public circulation of stillborn children in the charity website \"Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep\" and the controversial rise of funeral selfies on phones. \n\nJay Ruby’s analysis of various styles in post-mortem photography – particularly the poses of the deceased – argued that key poses reflected cultural attitudes toward death. Ruby argued for the dominance of the ‘Last Sleep’ pose in the first forty years of post-mortem portraiture. In the ‘Last Sleep’ the deceased’s eyes are closed and they lay as though in repose, which Ruby argued reflected the American desire to associate death with sleep.\n\nAnother popular arrangement was to have the deceased presented seated in a chair or arranged in a portrait to mimic life because these photographs would serve as their last social presence. In the Victorian era it was not uncommon to photograph deceased young children or newborns in the arms of their mother. The inclusion of the mother, it has been argued, encourages one to see through the mother's eyes: \"The desire to see through the mother’s eyes, and even identify with such pain would have been more potent at the time, when the daguerreotype would be shown to friends and family who might have known the child and certainly knew the family.\" \n\nWhile some images (especially tintypes and ambrotypes) have a rosy tint added to the cheeks of the corpse, it is untrue that metal stands and other devices were used to pose the dead as though they were living.\nThe use by photographers of a stand or arm rest (sometimes referred to as a Brady stand), which aided living persons to remain still long enough for the camera's lengthy exposure time, has given rise to this myth. While 19th-century people may have wished their loved ones to look their best in a memorial photograph, evidence of a metal stand should be understood as proof that the subject was a living person.\n\nLater photographic examples show the subject in a coffin. Some very late examples show the deceased in a coffin with a large group of funeral attendees; this type of photograph was especially popular in Europe and less common in the United States.\n\nAs noted above, post-mortem photography is still practised and is common in America among women who experienced stillbirth; commemorated on websites such as \"Now I Lay Me Down To Sleep\". This style of mother holding child was also common in the Victorian era when death of infants was common. Photographs, especially depicting persons who were considered to be very holy lying in their coffins, are still circulated among faithful Eastern Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Christians.\n\nIt is believed that the post-mortem photography died out in the Nordic countries around 1940. When examining Iceland's culture surrounding death, it is concluded that the nation held death as an important and significant companion. Throughout much of the nineteenth century, the country's infant mortality rate was higher than the rest of European countries. Consequently, death was a public topic that was considerably seen through Icelanders' religious lenses. There are many that believe Iceland's attitudes about post-mortem photography can be drawn out from its earlier attitudes about death. In the early 1900s, it wasn't uncommon to read a local newspaper's obituary section and find detailed information regarding an individual's death, including instances where suicide occurred. How post-mortem photography began in Iceland remains uncertain, but these photographs can be traced to the late nineteenth century.\n\nPost-mortem photography was particularly popular in Victorian Britain. From 1860-1910, these Post-mortem portraits were much like American portraits in style, focusing on the deceased either displayed as asleep or with the family; often these images were placed in family albums. The study has often been mixed with American traditions, because the two are so similar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28870643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28870643", "title": "Robert L. Stanton", "text": "Robert L. Stanton\n\nRobert L. Stanton, D.D. (March 28, 1810 – May 23, 1885) was an American Presbyterian minister, educator and college administrator. He served as president of Miami University of Ohio from 1868 to 1871. He also served as president of Oakland College in Mississippi.\n\nRobert Lodowick Stanton was born on March 28, 1810, in Preston, Connecticut, the son of Joseph Stanton and Susan M. Brewster. His father manufactured woolen goods and traded with the West Indies. Robert's older brother was Henry Brewster Stanton, who became a journalist and abolitionist, publishing widely in New York and abolitionist newspapers, and lecturing on the abolitionist circuit. He married Elizabeth Cady, who became a leader on issues of temperance, women's rights and suffrage, as well as abolition.\n\nRobert Stanton graduated from the Lane Seminary in Cincinnati, Ohio and earned his D.D. degree from Princeton University.\n\nHe became the pastor of churches in Mississippi, Louisiana, and Ohio. He served as the second president of Oakland College in Lorman, Mississippi from 1851 to 1854; it was affiliated with the Presbyterian Church.\n\nHe was Professor of Theology at Danville Theological Seminary in Kentucky from 1862 to 1866. He was moderator of the general assembly of the Presbyterian Church.\n\nStanton died en route to Europe and was buried at sea on May 28, 1885, at the age of seventy-six.\n"}
{"id": "37476194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37476194", "title": "Seal Team Six: The Raid on Osama Bin Laden", "text": "Seal Team Six: The Raid on Osama Bin Laden\n\nSEAL Team Six: The Raid on Osama Bin Laden is a 2012 television film directed by John Stockwell chronicling the Abbottabad compound raid and killing of Osama bin Laden in 2011 by U.S. Navy SEALs. It first aired on the National Geographic Channel on Sunday, November 4, 2012. The facts in the film were not confirmed or denied by White House officials. William Fichtner, Cam Gigandet, Kenneth Miller, Kathleen Robertson, and Xzibit are among the actors who appear in the film. The part of the film showcasing the Pakistan locales were shot at Khopoli near Mumbai, India as the filmmakers were unable to secure permission to shoot in Pakistan. It holds a mixed critic rating on score aggregator Metacritic.\n\nSEAL Team Six\nCIA\nAdditional cast\n\n"}
{"id": "1439959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1439959", "title": "Seven virtues", "text": "Seven virtues\n\nThe \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" defines virtue as \"a habitual and firm disposition to do the good.\" Traditionally, the seven Christian virtues or heavenly virtues combine the four classical cardinal virtues of prudence, justice, temperance and courage (or fortitude) with the three theological virtues of faith, hope and charity. These were adopted by the Church Fathers as the seven virtues.\n\nThe Greek philosophers Aristotle and Plato, regarded temperance, wisdom, justice, and courage as the four most desirable character traits. The Book of Wisdom is one of the seven Sapiential Books included in the Septuagint. Wisdom 8:7 states that the fruits of Wisdom \"...are virtues; For she teaches moderation and prudence, justice and fortitude, and nothing in life is more useful for men than these.\"\n\nThe moral virtues are attitudes, dispositions, and good habits that govern one's actions, passions, and conduct according to reason; and are acquired by human effort. Immanuel Kant said, \"Virtue is the moral strength of the will in obeying the dictates of duty\". The cardinal virtues are prudence, justice, fortitude, and temperance.\n\n\nPhilosophers recognized the interrelatedness of the virtues such that courage without prudence risks becoming mere foolhardiness. Aquinas found an interconnection of practical wisdom (\"prudentia\") and moral virtue. This is frequently termed \"the Unity of the Virtues.\" Aquinas also argued that it not only matters what a person does but how the person does it. The person must aim at a good end and also make a right choice about the means to that end. The moral virtues direct the person to aim at a good end, but to ensure that the person make the right choices about the means to a good end, one needs practical wisdom.\n\nThe traditional understanding of the differences in the natures of Cardinal and Theological virtues, is that the latter are not fully accessible to humans in their natural state without assistance from God. \"All virtues have as their final scope to dispose man to acts conducive to his true happiness. The happiness, however, of which man is capable is twofold, namely, natural, which is attainable by man's natural powers, and supernatural, which exceeds the capacity of unaided human nature. Since, therefore, merely natural principles of human action are inadequate to a supernatural end, it is necessary that man be endowed with supernatural powers to enable him to attain his final destiny. Now these supernatural principles are nothing else than the theological virtues.\"\n\nA list of seven virtues that oppose the seven deadly sins appeared later in an epic poem titled \"Psychomachia\", or \"Battle/Contest of the Soul\". Written by Aurelius Clemens Prudentius, a Christian governor who died around 410 AD, it entails the battle between good virtues and evil vices. The enormous popularity of this work in the Middle Ages helped to spread the concept of holy virtue throughout Europe.\n\nAfter Pope Gregory released his list of seven deadly sins in 590 AD, the seven virtues became identified as chastity, temperance, charity, diligence, patience, kindness, and humility. Practicing them is said to protect one against temptation from the seven deadly sins.\n\nIt should be noted, however, that these seven virtues do not correspond to the seven heavenly virtues arrived at by combining the cardinal and theological virtues. Furthermore, efforts in the Middle Ages to set the seven heavenly virtues in direct opposition to the seven capital sins are both uncommon and beset with difficulties. “[T]reatises exclusively concentrating on both septenaries are actually quite rare.” and “examples of late medieval catalogues of virtues and vices which extend or upset the double heptad can be easily multiplied.” And there are problems with this parallelism.\n\n"}
{"id": "529476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529476", "title": "Sirolimus", "text": "Sirolimus\n\nSirolimus, also known as rapamycin, is a macrolide compound that is used to coat coronary stents, prevent organ transplant rejection and to treat a rare lung disease called lymphangioleiomyomatosis. It has immunosuppressant functions in humans and is especially useful in preventing the rejection of kidney transplants. It inhibits activation of T cells and B cells by reducing their sensitivity to interleukin-2 (IL-2) through mTOR inhibition.\n\nIt is produced by the bacterium \"Streptomyces hygroscopicus\" and was isolated for the first time in 1972 by Surendra Nath Sehgal and colleagues from samples of \"Streptomyces hygroscopicus\" found on Easter Island. The compound was originally named rapamycin after the native name of the island, Rapa Nui. Sirolimus was initially developed as an antifungal agent. However, this use was abandoned when it was discovered to have potent immunosuppressive and antiproliferative properties due to its ability to inhibit mTOR. It was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in September 1999 and is marketed under the trade name Rapamune by Pfizer (formerly by Wyeth).\n\nSirolimus is indicated for the prevention of organ transplant rejection and for the treatment of lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM).\n\nThe chief advantage sirolimus has over calcineurin inhibitors is its low toxicity toward kidneys. Transplant patients maintained on calcineurin inhibitors long-term tend to develop impaired kidney function or even chronic renal failure; this can be avoided by using sirolimus instead. It is particularly advantageous in patients with kidney transplants for hemolytic-uremic syndrome, as this disease is likely to recur in the transplanted kidney if a calcineurin-inhibitor is used. However, on 7 October 2008, the FDA approved safety labeling revisions for sirolimus to warn of the risk for decreased renal function associated with its use. In 2009, the FDA notified healthcare professionals that a clinical trial conducted by Wyeth showed an increased mortality in stable liver transplant patients after switching from a calcineurin inhibitor-based immunosuppressive regimen to sirolimus.\n\nSirolimus can also be used alone, or in conjunction with a calcineurin inhibitor (such as tacrolimus), and/or mycophenolate mofetil, to provide steroid-free immunosuppression regimens. Impaired wound healing and thrombocytopenia are a possible side effects of sirolimus; therefore, some transplant centers prefer not to use it immediately after the transplant operation, but instead administer it only after a period of weeks or months. Its optimal role in immunosuppression has not yet been determined, and it remains the subject of a number of ongoing clinical trials.\n\nOn May 28, 2015, the FDA approved sirolimus to treat lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM), a rare, progressive lung disease that primarily affects women of childbearing age. This made sirolimus the first drug approved to treat this disease. LAM involves lung tissue infiltration with smooth muscle-like cells with mutations of the tuberous sclerosis complex gene (TSC2). Loss of TSC2 gene function activates the mTOR signaling pathway, resulting in the release of lymphangiogenic growth factors. Sirolimus blocks this pathway.\n\nThe safety and efficacy of sirolimus treatment of LAM were investigated in clinical trials that compared sirolimus treatment with a placebo group in 89 patients for 12 months. The patients were observed for 12 months after the treatment had ended. The most commonly reported side effect of sirolimus treatment of LAM were mouth and lip ulcers, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, sore throat, acne, chest pain, leg swelling, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, dizziness, muscle pain and elevated cholesterol. Serious side effects including hypersensitivity and swelling (edema) have been observed in renal transplant patients.\n\nWhile sirolimus was considered for treatment of LAM, it received orphan product designation status because LAM is a rare condition. Development for the product was partially supported by the FDA Orphan Products Grants Program, which provides grants for clinical studies on safety and/or effectiveness of products for use in rare diseases or conditions.\n\nThe safety of LAM treatment by sirolimus in patients younger than 18 years old has not been tested.\n\nThe antiproliferative effect of sirolimus has also been used in conjunction with coronary stents to prevent restenosis in coronary arteries following balloon angioplasty. The sirolimus is formulated in a polymer coating that affords controlled release through the healing period following coronary intervention. Several large clinical studies have demonstrated lower restenosis rates in patients treated with sirolimus-eluting stents when compared to bare-metal stents, resulting in fewer repeat procedures. A sirolimus-eluting coronary stent was marketed by Cordis, a division of Johnson & Johnson, under the tradename Cypher. However, this kind of stent may also increase the risk of vascular thrombosis.\n\nSirolimus is contraindicated in individuals with a known hypersensitivity to the drug.\n\nThe most common adverse reactions (≥30% occurrence, leading to a 5% treatment discontinuation rate) observed with sirolimus in clinical studies of organ rejection prophylaxis in individuals with kidney transplants include: peripheral edema, hypercholesterolemia, abdominal pain, headache, nausea, diarrhea, pain, constipation, hypertriglyceridemia, hypertension, increased creatinine, fever, urinary tract infection, anemia, arthralgia, and thrombocytopenia.\n\nThe most common adverse reactions (≥20% occurrence, leading to a 11% treatment discontinuation rate) observed with sirolimus in clinical studies for the treatment of lymphangioleiomyomatosis are: peripheral edema, hypercholesterolemia, abdominal pain, headache, nausea, diarrhea, chest pain, stomatitis, nasopharyngitis, acne, upper respiratory tract infection, dizziness, and myalgia.\n\nThe following adverse effects occurred in 3–20% of individuals taking sirolimus for organ rejection prophylaxis following a kidney transplant:\nWhile sirolimus inhibition of mTORC1 appears to mediate the drug's benefits, it also inhibits mTORC2, which results in diabetes-like symptoms. This includes decreased glucose tolerance and insensitivity to insulin. Sirolimus treatment may additionally increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. In mouse studies, these symptoms can be avoided through the use of alternate dosing regimens or analogs such as everolimus or temsirolimus.\n\nLung toxicity is a serious complication associated with sirolimus therapy, especially in the case of lung transplants. The mechanism of the interstitial pneumonitis caused by sirolimus and other macrolide MTOR inhibitors is unclear, and may have nothing to do with the mTOR pathway. The interstitial pneumonitis is not dose-dependent, but is more common in patients with underlying lung disease.\n\nThere have been warnings about the use of sirolimus in transplants, where it may increase mortality due to an increased risk of infections.\n\nAccording to the FDA prescribing information, sirolimus may increase an individual's risk for contracting skin cancers from exposure to sunlight or UV radiation, and risk of developing lymphoma. In studies, the skin cancer risk under sirolimus was lower than under other immunosuppressants such as azathioprine and calcineurin inhibitors, and lower than under placebo.\n\nIndividuals taking sirolimus are at increased risk of experiencing impaired or delayed wound healing, particularly if they have a high body mass index (i.e., a BMI of ≥30 kg/m).\n\nSirolimus is metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme and is a substrate of the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux pump; hence, inhibitors of either protein may increase sirolimus concentrations in blood plasma, whereas inducers of CYP3A4 and P-gp may decrease sirolimus concentrations in blood plasma.\n\nUnlike the similarly named tacrolimus, sirolimus is not a calcineurin inhibitor, but it has a similar suppressive effect on the immune system. Sirolimus inhibits IL-2 and other cytokine receptor-dependent signal transduction mechanisms, via action on mTOR, and thereby blocks activation of T and B cells. Ciclosporin and tacrolimus inhibit the secretion of IL-2, by inhibiting calcineurin.\n\nThe mode of action of sirolimus is to bind the cytosolic protein FK-binding protein 12 (FKBP12) in a manner similar to tacrolimus. Unlike the tacrolimus-FKBP12 complex, which inhibits calcineurin (PP2B), the sirolimus-FKBP12 complex inhibits the mTOR (mammalian Target Of Rapamycin, rapamycin being another name for sirolimus) pathway by directly binding to mTOR Complex 1 (mTORC1).\n\nmTOR has also been called FRAP (FKBP-rapamycin-associated protein), RAFT (rapamycin and FKBP target), RAPT1, or SEP. The earlier names FRAP and RAFT were coined to reflect the fact that sirolimus must bind FKBP12 first, and only the FKBP12-sirolimus complex can bind mTOR. However, mTOR is now the widely accepted name, since Tor was first discovered via genetic and molecular studies of sirolimus-resistant mutants of \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" that identified FKBP12, Tor1, and Tor2 as the targets of sirolimus and provided robust support that the FKBP12-sirolimus complex binds to and inhibits Tor1 and Tor2.\n\nSirolimus is metabolized by the CYP3A4 enzyme and is a substrate of the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) efflux pump. It has an elimination half-life of 57–63 hours.\n\nThe absorption of sirolimus into the blood stream from the intestine varies widely between patients, with some patients having up to eight times more exposure than others for the same dose. Drug levels are, therefore, taken to make sure patients get the right dose for their condition. This is determined by taking a blood sample before the next dose, which gives the trough level. However, good correlation is noted between trough concentration levels and drug exposure, known as area under the concentration-time curve, for both sirolimus (SRL) and tacrolimus (TAC) (SRL: r2 = 0.83; TAC: r2 = 0.82), so only one level need be taken to know its pharmacokinetic (PK) profile. PK profiles of SRL and of TAC are unaltered by simultaneous administration. Dose-corrected drug exposure of TAC correlates with SRL (r2 = 0.8), so patients have similar bioavailability of both.\n\nSirolimus is a natural product and macrocyclic lactone.\n\nThe biosynthesis of the rapamycin core is accomplished by a type I polyketide synthase (PKS) in conjunction with a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS). The domains responsible for the biosynthesis of the linear polyketide of rapamycin are organized into three multienzymes, RapA, RapB, and RapC, which contain a total of 14 modules (figure 1). The three multienzymes are organized such that the first four modules of polyketide chain elongation are in RapA, the following six modules for continued elongation are in RapB, and the final four modules to complete the biosynthesis of the linear polyketide are in RapC. Then, the linear polyketide is modified by the NRPS, RapP, which attaches L-pipecolate to the terminal end of the polyketide, and then cyclizes the molecule, yielding the unbound product, prerapamycin.\n\nThe core macrocycle, prerapamycin (figure 2), is then modified (figure 3) by an additional five enzymes, which lead to the final product, rapamycin. First, the core macrocycle is modified by RapI, SAM-dependent O-methyltransferase (MTase), which O-methylates at C39. Next, a carbonyl is installed at C9 by RapJ, a cytochrome P-450 monooxygenases (P-450). Then, RapM, another MTase, O-methylates at C16. Finally, RapN, another P-450, installs a hydroxyl at C27 immediately followed by O-methylation by Rap Q, a distinct MTase, at C27 to yield rapamycin.\n\nThe biosynthetic genes responsible for rapamycin synthesis have been identified. As expected, three extremely large open reading frames (ORF's) designated as \"rapA\", \"rapB\", and \"rapC\" encode for three extremely large and complex multienzymes, RapA, RapB, and RapC, respectively. The gene \"rapL\" has been established to code for a NAD+-dependent lysine cycloamidase, which converts L-lysine to L-pipecolic acid (figure 4) for incorporation at the end of the polyketide. The gene \"rapP\", which is embedded between the PKS genes and translationally coupled to \"rapC\", encodes for an additional enzyme, an NPRS responsible for incorporating L-pipecolic acid, chain termination and cyclization of prerapamycin. In addition, genes \"rapI\", \"rapJ\", \"rapM\", \"rapN\", \"rapO\", and \"rapQ\" have been identified as coding for tailoring enzymes that modify the macrocyclic core to give rapamycin (figure 3). Finally, \"rapG\" and \"rapH\" have been identified to code for enzymes that have a positive regulatory role in the preparation of rapamycin through the control of rapamycin PKS gene expression.\nBiosynthesis of this 31-membered macrocycle begins as the loading domain is primed with the starter unit, 4,5-dihydroxocyclohex-1-ene-carboxylic acid, which is derived from the shikimate pathway. Note that the cyclohexane ring of the starting unit is reduced during the transfer to module 1. The starting unit is then modified by a series of Claisen condensations with malonyl or methylmalonyl substrates, which are attached to an acyl carrier protein (ACP) and extend the polyketide by two carbons each. After each successive condensation, the growing polyketide is further modified according to enzymatic domains that are present to reduce and dehydrate it, thereby introducing the diversity of functionalities observed in rapamycin (figure 1). Once the linear polyketide is complete, L-pipecolic acid, which is synthesized by a lysine cycloamidase from an L-lysine, is added to the terminal end of the polyketide by an NRPS. Then, the NSPS cyclizes the polyketide, giving prerapamycin, the first enzyme-free product. The macrocyclic core is then customized by a series of post-PKS enzymes through methylations by MTases and oxidations by P-450s to yield rapamycin.\n\nThe antiproliferative effects of sirolimus may have a role in treating cancer. When dosed appropriately, sirolimus can enhance the immune response to tumor targeting or otherwise promote tumor regression in clinical trials. Sirolimus seems to lower the cancer risk in some transplant patients.\n\nSirolimus was shown to inhibit the progression of dermal Kaposi's sarcoma in patients with renal transplants. Other mTOR inhibitors, such as temsirolimus (CCI-779) or everolimus (RAD001), are being tested for use in cancers such as glioblastoma multiforme and mantle cell lymphoma. However, these drugs have a higher rate of fatal adverse events in cancer patients than control drugs.\n\nA combination therapy of doxorubicin and sirolimus has been shown to drive AKT-positive lymphomas into remission in mice. Akt signalling promotes cell survival in Akt-positive lymphomas and acts to prevent the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy drugs, such as doxorubicin or cyclophosphamide. Sirolimus blocks Akt signalling and the cells lose their resistance to the chemotherapy. Bcl-2-positive lymphomas were completely resistant to the therapy; eIF4E-expressing lymphomas are not sensitive to sirolimus.\n\nSirolimus also shows promise in treating tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), a congenital disorder that leaves sufferers prone to benign tumor growth in the brain, heart, kidneys, skin, and other organs. After several studies conclusively linked mTOR inhibitors to remission in TSC tumors, specifically subependymal giant-cell astrocytomas in children and angiomyolipomas in adults, many US doctors began prescribing sirolimus (Wyeth's Rapamune) and everolimus (Novartis's RAD001) to TSC patients off-label. Numerous clinical trials using both rapamycin analogs, involving both children and adults with TSC, are underway in the United States.\n\nMost studies thus far have noted that tumors often regrew when treatment stopped.\n\nFacial angiofibromas occur in 80% of patients with TSC, and the condition is very disfiguring. A retrospective review of English-language medical publications reporting on topical sirolimus treatment of facial angiofibromas found sixteen separate studies with positive patient outcomes after using the drug. The reports involved a total of 84 patients, and improvement was observed in 94% of subjects, especially if treatment began during the early stages of the disease. Sirolimus treatment was applied in several different formulations (ointment, gel, solution, and cream), ranging from 0.003 to 1% concentrations. Reported adverse effects included one case of perioral dermatitis, one case of cephalea, and four cases of irritation.\n\nmTOR, specifically mTOR1, was first shown to be important in aging in 2003, in a study on worms; sirolimus was shown to inhibit and slow aging in worms, yeast, and flies, and then to improve the condition of mouse models of various diseases of aging. Sirolimus was first shown to extend lifespan in wild-type mice in a study published by NIH investigators in 2009; the studies have been replicated in mice of many different genetic backgrounds. The results are further supported by the finding that genetically modified mice with impaired mTOR1 signalling live longer. The known adverse effects caused by sirolimus and marketed analogs at the doses used in transplant regimens, especially the increased risk of infection due to immunosuppression, as well as dose-dependent metabolic impairment, make it unlikely that this could become a widely used anti-aging agent. Among the strategies that have been explored to minimize such side effects are intermittent treatment regimens and combinations with insulin sentitizers (rosiglitazone) or antidiabetics (metformin) to prevent metabolic dysfunction.\n\nIn contrast to the immunosuppressive effects found in long-term high dosing, a study combining low-dose Everolimus (a rapamycin analog) and Dactolisib for a single 6 week course followed by influenza vaccination in healthy elderly patients (>65 years of age) found that this combination significantly reduced the number of infections reported by participants relative to placebo (from 2.41 to 1.49 infections per person per year), increased the serological response by more than 20%, did not produce any excess events of hyperglycemia or hypercholesteremia (associated with mTORC2 inhibition) and was generally well tolerated.\n\nRapamycin has complex effects on the immune system—while IL-12 goes up and IL-10 decreases, which suggests an immunostimulatory response, TNF and IL-6 are decreased, which suggests an immunosuppressive response. The duration of the inhibition and the exact extent to which mTORC1 and mTORC2 are inhibited play a role, but are not yet well understood.\n\nAs of 2016 studies in cells, animals, and humans have suggested that mTOR activation as process underlying systemic lupus erythematosus and that inhibiting mTOR with rapamycin may be a disease-modifying treatment. As of 2016 rapamycin had been tested in small clinical trials in people with lupus.\n\nRapamycin is used in biology research as an agent for chemically induced dimerization. In this application, rapamycin is added to cells expressing two fusion constructs, one of which contains the rapamycin-binding FRB domain from mTOR and the other of which contains an FKBP domain. Each fusion protein also contains additional domains that are brought into proximity when rapamycin induces binding of FRB and FKBP. In this way, rapamycin can be used to control and study protein localization and interactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2438941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2438941", "title": "Slow movement (culture)", "text": "Slow movement (culture)\n\nThe slow movement (sometimes capitalised Slow movement or Slow Movement) advocates a cultural shift toward slowing down life's pace. It began with Carlo Petrini's protest against the opening of a McDonald's restaurant in Piazza di Spagna, Rome in 1986 that sparked the creation of the slow food movement. Over time, this developed into a subculture in other areas, like the Cittaslow organisation for \"slow cities\". The \"slow\" epithet has subsequently been applied to a variety of activities and aspects of culture.\n\nGeir Berthelsen and his creation of The World Institute of Slowness presented a vision in 1999 for an entire \"slow planet\" and a need to teach the world the way of slowness. Carl Honoré's 2004 book, \"In Praise of Slowness\", first explored how the Slow philosophy might be applied in every field of human endeavour and coined the phrase \"slow movement\". The \"Financial Times\" said the book is \"to the Slow Movement what \"Das Kapital\" is to communism\". Honoré describes the Slow Movement thus:\n\n\"It is a cultural revolution against the notion that faster is always better. The Slow philosophy is not about doing everything at a snail's pace. It's about seeking to do everything at the right speed. Savoring the hours and minutes rather than just counting them. Doing everything as well as possible, instead of as fast as possible. It’s about quality over quantity in everything from work to food to parenting.\" — Reda.\n\nProfessor Guttorm Fløistad summarises the philosophy, stating:\n\"The only thing for certain is that everything changes. The rate of change increases. If you want to hang on you better speed up. That is the message of today. It could however be useful to remind everyone that our basic needs never change. The need to be seen and appreciated! It is the need to belong. The need for nearness and care, and for a little love! This is given only through slowness in human relations. In order to master changes, we have to recover slowness, reflection and togetherness. There we will find real renewal.\"\nThe slow movement is not organised and controlled by a single organisation. A fundamental characteristic of the slow movement is that it is propounded, and its momentum maintained, by individuals who constitute the expanding global community of Slow. Its popularity has grown considerably since the rise of slow food and Cittaslow in Europe, with slowness initiatives spreading as far as Australia and Japan.\n\n\"Slow ageing\" (or \"slow aging\") is a scientifically backed and distinct approach to successful ageing, advocating a personal and wholly encompassing positive choice to the process of ageing. Established as part of the broader slow movement in the 1980s, as opposed to the interventionist-based and commercially backed medical anti-aging system, it involves personal ownership and non-medical intervention options in gaining potential natural life extension. \n\n\"Slow cinema\" is a cinematography style which derives from the art film genre and which consists in conveying a sense of calculated slowness to the viewer. Slow films often consist of a resistance to movement and emotion, a lack of causality and a devotion to realism. This is usually obtained through the use of long takes, minimalist acting, slow or inexistent camera movements, unconventional use of music and sparse editing. Well-known slow cinema directors are Béla Tarr, Nuri Bilge Ceylan, Abbas Kiarostami, Tsai Ming-Liang, Andrei Tarkovsky and Theo Angelopoulos.\n\nThe goal of the Cittaslow organisation is to resist the homogenisation and globalisation of towns and cities. It seeks to improve the quality and enjoyment of living by encouraging happiness and self-determination.\n\nRecent technological advances have resulted in a fast-paced style of living. \"Slow counselors\" understand that many clients are seeking ways to reduce stress and cultivate a more balanced approach to life. Developed by Dr. Randy Astramovich and Dr. Wendy Hoskins and rooted in the slow movement, slow counseling offers counselors a wellness focused foundation for addressing the time urgency and stress often reported by clients.\n\nThe term \"slow fashion\" was coined by Kate Fletcher in 2007 (Centre for Sustainable Fashion, UK). \"Slow fashion is not a seasonal trend that comes and goes like animal print, but a sustainable fashion movement that is gaining momentum.\"\n\nThe slow fashion style is based on the same principles of the slow food movement, as the alternative to mass-produced clothing (also known as fast fashion). Initially, The slow clothing movement was intended to reject all mass-produced clothing, referring only to clothing made by hand, but has broadened to include many interpretations and is practiced in various ways.\n\nSome examples of slow fashion practices include:\n\nThe slow fashion ethos is a unified representation of all the \"sustainable\", \"eco\", \"green\", and \"ethical\" fashion movements. It encourages education about the garment industry's connection and impact on the environment and depleting resources, slowing of the supply chain to reduce the number of trends and seasons, to encourage quality production, and return greater value to garments removing the image of disposability of fashion. A key phrase repeatedly heard in reference to slow fashion is \"quality over quantity\". This phrase is used to summarise the basic principles of slowing down the rate of clothing consumption by choosing garments that last longer.\n\nOpposed to the culture of fast food, the sub-movement known as \"slow food\" seeks to encourage the enjoyment of regional produce, traditional foods, which are often grown organically and to enjoy these foods in the company of others. It aims to defend agricultural biodiversity.\n\nThe movement claims 83,000 members in 50 countries, which are organised into 800 \"Convivia\" or local chapters. Sometimes operating under a logo of a snail, the collective philosophy is to preserve and support traditional ways of life. Today, 42 states in the United States have their own \"convivium\".\n\nIn 2004, representatives from food communities in more than 150 countries met in Turin, Italy, under the umbrella of the Terra Madre (Mother Earth) network.\n\n\"Slow gardening\" is an approach that helps gardeners savor what they grow using all their senses through all the seasons. It is not about being lazy; rather it is aimed at getting more out of what they do.\n\n\"Slow goods\" takes its core direction from various elements of the overall slow movement and applying it to the concept, design and manufacturing of physical objects. It focuses on low production runs, the usage of craftspeople within the process and on-shore manufacturing. Proponents of this philosophy seek and collaborate with smaller, local supply and service partners.\n\nSlow goods practitioners must have those tenets baked into their business model, it must be the top driver in the procurement of sustainable materials and manufacturing techniques. The rationale for this local engagement facilitates the assurance of quality, the revitalisation of local manufacturing industries and reduces greatly the footprint related to the shipment of goods across regions of land and or water.\n\nAgain, quality always supersedes quantity. The genesis of a product is becoming more of concern for consumers. Some companies have now woven this philosophy into their corporate structure. The source of a product and its parts has become increasingly more important.\n\nPhysical goods affected by the slow movement represent much diversity, including architecture and building design. The slow movement is affecting the concept and planning stages of commercial buildings, chiefly LEED certified projects.\n\nThis movement seeks to break current conventions of perpetuating the disposable nature of mass production. By using higher-quality materials and craftsmanship, items attain a longer lifespan that harkens back to manufacturing golden era of the past.\n\n\"Slow living\" is a lifestyle choice. Authors Beth Meredith and Eric Storm summarize slow living as follows:\n\nSlow Living means structuring your life around meaning and fulfillment. Similar to \"voluntary simplicity\" and \"downshifting,\" it emphasizes a less-is-more approach, focusing on the quality of your life. ... Slow Living addresses the desire to lead a more balanced life and to pursue a more holistic sense of well-being in the fullest sense of the word.\nIn order to embrace the benefits of Slow Living we should start with daily mundane tasks. For example when we brush our teeth, take a bath we are normally distracted and focus is to complete that activity as soon as possible. If we do these everyday tasks slowly we will be more mindful and hence we connect more deeply. The degree of joy after doing mundane tasks slowly will be immense and benefits of slow living will slowly creep into our life.\n\nSlow marketing is a reaction to the perceived \"always-on\" nature of digital marketing. It emphasizes a customer-centric outlook, sustainability, and ethics. Slow marketing builds relationships with customers instead of encouraging immediate results, such as a limited time offer.\n\n\"Slow media\" (or more specifically \"slow television\") is a movement aiming at sustainable and focused media production as well as media consumption. It formed in the context of a massive acceleration of news distribution ending in almost realtime digital media such as Twitter. Beginning in 2010, many local slow media initiatives formed in the USA and Europe (Germany, France, Italy) leading to a high attention in mass-media. Others experiment with a reduction of their daily media intake and log their efforts online (\"slow media diet\").\n\nSlow medicine fosters taking time in developing a relationship between the practitioner and the patient, and in applying medical knowledge, technology and treatment to the specific and unique character of the patient in his or her overall situation.\n\nSlow Money is a specific non-profit organisation, founded to organise investors and donors to steer new sources of capital to small food enterprises, organic farms, and local food systems. Slow Money takes its name from the Slow Food movement. Slow Money aims to develop the relationship between capital markets and place, including social and soil fertility. Slow Money is supporting the grass-roots mobilisation through network building, convening, publishing, and incubating intermediary strategies and structures of funding.\n\nSlow parenting encourages parents to plan less for their children, allowing them to explore the world at their own pace. It is a response to hyper-parenting and helicopter parenting; the widespread trend for parents to schedule activities and classes after school every day and every weekend, to solve problems on behalf of the children, and to buy commercial services and products. It was described by Carl Honoré in \"Under Pressure: Rescuing Our Children from the Culture Of Hyper-Parenting\".\n\nSlow photography is a term describing a tendency in today's contemporary photography and visual arts. In response to the spread of digital photography and the snapshot, artists and photographers retake manual techniques and working methods to work slower, manually and in constant dialogue with the physical materials of the images.\n\nThe term was first introduced by Norwegian photographer, artist and photo educator Johanne Seines Svendsen in the article \"The Slow Photography – In Motion\", published in the book \"Through a Glass, Darkly\" in January 2013, in collaboration with the North Norwegian Art Center, the Arts Council of Norway, and the Norwegian Photographical Fund.\n\nThe term was put into shape in the installation \"The Slow Photography\" at The 67th North Norwegian Art Exhibition, first opened in the city of Bodø in January 2013. The installation contained five original ambrotypes and alumitypes presented in a monter; and presents contemporary work with the historical photographical process wet-plate collodion (1851–1880).\n\n\"Slow church\" is a movement in Christian praxis which integrates slow-movement principles into the structure and character of the local church. The phrase was introduced in 2008 by Christian bloggers working independently who imagined what such a \"slow church\" might look like. Over the next several years, the concept continued to be discussed online and in print by various writers and ministers.\n\nIn July 2012, a three-day conference titled \"Slow Church: Abiding Together in the Patient Work of God\" was held on the campus of DePaul University in Chicago on the topic of slow church and featured Christian ethicist Stanley Hauerwas and Kyle Childress, among others. An online blog called \"Slow Church\" written by C. Christopher Smith and John Pattison is hosted by Patheos, and Smith and Pattison have written a book by the same name, published in June 2014.\n\nEthics, ecology, and economy are cited as areas of central concern to slow church. Smith describes slow church as a \"conversation\" not a movement and has cited New Monasticism as an influence. In its emphases on non-traditional ways for churches to operate and on \"conversation\" over dogma and hierarchy, slow church is also related to the broader Christian \"emerging church\" movement.\n\n\"Slow scholarship\" is a response to hasty scholarship and the demands of corporatized neoliberal academic culture, which may compromise the quality and integrity of research, education and well-being. This movement attempts to counter the erosion of humanistic education, analyze the consequences of the culture of speed, and \"explores alternatives to the fast-paced, metric-oriented neoliberal university through a slow-moving conversation on ways to slow down and claim time for slow scholarship and collective action.\"\n\nSee detailed article : One Taste\n\nThe \"slow science\" movement's objective is to enable scientists to take the time to think and read. The prevalent culture of science is publish or perish, where scientists are judged to be better if they publish more papers in less time, and only those who do so are able to maintain their careers. Those who practice and promote slow science suggest that \"society should give scientists the time they need\".\n\nThe \"slow technology\" approach aims to emphasise that technology can support reflection rather than efficiency. This approach has been discussed through various examples, for example those in interaction design or virtual environments. It is related to other parallel efforts such as those towards reflective design, critical design and critical technical practice.\n\n\"Slow travel\" is an evolving movement that has taken its inspiration from nineteenth-century European travel writers, such as Théophile Gautier, who reacted against the cult of speed, prompting some modern analysts to ask \"If we have slow food and slow cities, then why not slow travel?\". Other literary and exploration traditions, from early Arab travellers to late nineteenth-century Yiddish writers, have also identified with slow travel, usually marking its connection with community as its most distinctive feature. Espousing modes of travel that were the norm in some less developed societies became, for some writers and travellers from western Europe such as Isabelle Eberhardt, a way of engaging more seriously with those societies.\n\nSlow travel is not only about traveling from one place to another, it is also about immersing oneself in a destination. It consists in staying in the same place for a while to develop a deep connection with it. Frequenting local places, spending time with locals and discovering their habits and customs can turn a regular trip into a slow travel experience. The key is to take one's time and to let oneself be carried along.\n\nAdvocates of slow travel argue that all too often the potential pleasure of the journey is lost by too eager anticipation of arrival. Slow travel, it is asserted, is a state of mind which allows travellers to engage more fully with communities along their route, often favouring visits to spots enjoyed by local residents rather than merely following guidebooks. As such, slow travel shares some common values with ecotourism. Its advocates and devotees generally look for low-impact travel styles, even to the extent of eschewing flying.\n\nAspects of slow travel, including some of the principles detailed in the \"Manifesto for Slow Travel:, are now increasingly featuring in travel writing. The magazine \"Hidden Europe\", which first published the \"Manifesto for Slow Travel\", has particularly showcased slow travel, featuring articles that focus on unhurried, low-impact journeys and advocating a stronger engagement with communities that lie en route.\n\nA new book series launched in May 2010 by Bradt Travel Guides explicitly espouses slow travel ideas with volumes that focus very much on local communities within a tightly defined area, often advocating the use of public transport along the way. Titles include \"Bus-pass Britain\", \"Slow Norfolk and Suffolk\", \"Slow Devon and Exmoor\", \"Slow Cotswolds\", \"Slow North Yorkshire\" and \"Slow Sussex and South Downs National Park\".\n\nIn the United States, the slow travel movement has engendered renewed interest of historic two-lane roads, including U.S. Route 66, and the Lincoln Highway, both transcontinental roads which are much slower than modern interstate highways.\n\nThe principal perspective of the slow movement is to experience life in a fundamentally different way. Adherents believe that the experience of being present leads to what Abraham Maslow refers to as Peak experience.\n\nThe International Institute of Not Doing Much is a humorous approach to the serious topic of \"time poverty\", incivility, and workaholism. The Institute’s fictional presence promotes counter-urgency. First created in 2005, SlowDownNow.org is a continually evolving work of art and humor which reports it has over 6,000 members.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "1223981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223981", "title": "Sonni Ali", "text": "Sonni Ali\n\nSunni Ali, also known as Sunni Ali Ber, was born Ali Kolon. He reigned from about 1464 to 1492. Sunni Ali was the first king of the Songhai Empire, located in Africa and the 15th ruler of the Sunni dynasty. Under Sunni Ali's infantry and cavalry many cities were captured and then fortified, such as Timbuktu (captured in 1468) and Djenné (captured in 1475). Sonni conducted a repressive policy against the scholars of Timbuktu, especially those of the Sankore region who were associated with the Tuareg whom Ali expelled to gain control of the town.\n\nSunni Ali organized a fleet to patrol the Niger river. During his reign, Songhai surpassed the height of the Mali Empire, engulfing areas under the Mali Empire (and the Ghana Empire before it). His death, in late 1492, is a matter of conjecture. According to the \"Tarikh al-Sudan\", Ali drowned while crossing the Niger River. Oral tradition believes he was killed by his sister's son, Askia Muhammad Ture. He was succeeded by his son, Sonni Baru, who was challenged by Askia because Baru was not seen as a faithful Muslim. Askia succeeded to the throne. According to the \"Tarikh al-Sudan\" it is believed that this action caused Sonni Ali's sister to shout out \"Askia!\"(forceful one), at the news of this take over.\n\nSunni Ali ruled over both urban Muslims and rural non-Muslims at a time when the traditional co-existence of different beliefs was being challenged. His adherence to African animism while also professing Islam leads some writers to describe him as \"outwardly\" or \"nominally\" Muslim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42211099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42211099", "title": "Suicide of Jadin Bell", "text": "Suicide of Jadin Bell\n\nJadin Robert Joseph Bell (June 4, 1997 – February 3, 2013) was an American youth known for his suicide which raised the national profile on youth bullying and gay victimization in bullying.\n\nBell, a 15-year-old gay youth, was \"intensely bullied\" both in person and on the internet because he was gay. He was a member of the La Grande High School cheerleading team in La Grande, Oregon, where he was a sophomore. On January 19, 2013, Bell went to a local elementary school and hanged himself from the play structure. He did not immediately die from the strangulation and was rushed to the emergency department, where he was kept on life support.\n\nThe Associated Press reported that a spokesman for the OHSU Hospital in Portland announced that after being taken off life support, Bell died on February 3, 2013.\n\nBell's death was widely reported in the media, starting discussions about bullying, the effect it has on youth, and gay bullying. \"The Huffington Post\", \"Salon\", Oregon Public Broadcasting, \"The Raw Story\", GLAAD, \"PQ Monthly\", \"Pink News\" and many other media outlets reported on Bell's death. The media reported his suicide stemmed from being bullied for being gay, which Bell's father fully believed, stating: \"He was hurting so bad. Just the bullying at school. Yeah there were other issues, but ultimately it was all due to the bullying, for not being accepted for being gay.\"\n\nOf Bell's death, Oregon LGBTQ activist Alex Horsey stated: \"Sometimes, it can be easy to become disconnected to so many stories like Jadin's in the media... Every story (including those not covered by media outlets) has equal importance... It's heartbreaking that Jadin's story has become a reminder of the horrifying consequences of bullying, rather than a story of a young man overcoming adversity and a community changing its ways.\"\n\nAfter Bell's death, his father, Joe Bell, planned a cross-country tribute in honor of his son. He planned to walk across the entire continental United States within two years, spreading awareness about bullying and the effects that it can have. Bell resigned from his position at Boise Cascade and helped launch Faces for Change, a non-profit anti-bullying foundation, to speak in high schools across the U.S. He stated: \"Not doing anything is not acceptable. [Those who watch and do nothing] are just as guilty. They are saying that it is acceptable.\"\n\nJoe Bell was killed half way through his journey after he was hit by a semi-truck in Colorado. The driver of the truck, Kenneth Raven, was charged with reckless driving and may have fallen asleep at the wheel. Joe had begun the walk in April 2013 and was killed on October 6, 2013. He was pronounced dead at the scene on the shoulder of US 40 when authorities arrived.\n\nFaces for Change created a scholarship program in memory of Jadin Bell \"to make awards to scholastic institutions on behalf of individuals who have demonstrated a commitment to diversity and the development of community tolerance in our area of service.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "53915257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53915257", "title": "The Silbón", "text": "The Silbón\n\nEl Silbón (The whistler) is a legendary figure in Venezuela, associated especially with Los Llanos, described as a lost soul. The legend arose sometime in the middle of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to the legend, the spirit is a youth who murdered and disembowelled his father for killing his wife, saying that she was a “slut”, and that she was asking for it. Afterwards, his grandfather ordered the youth to be tied to a post in the middle of the countryside, and lashed him until his back was destroyed. His wounds were then cleaned with alcohol and he was released with two rabid, starving dogs set upon him. Before releasing him, his grandfather condemned him to carry the bones of his father for all eternity.\n\nIt has a characteristic whistle that resembles the musical notes C, D, E, F, G, A, B in that order. Rising in tone to F, then lowering to B. It is said that when the whistling sounds close, there's no danger, and the whistler is far away, but when the whistling sounds distant, it means it is nearby. It is also said that hearing the whistling foretells your own death, and you can hear it anywhere at any time. In this situation, the only thing that can save you is the sound of a dog barking, as it is the only thing it is afraid of, a chili, or a whip. The spirit tends to take revenge on womanisers.\n\nMany inhabitants of Los Llanos say that they have seen it, primarily in the summer, a time when the Venezuelan savannah burns in the harsh drought. The whistler sits in the trees and gathers dust in his hands. But it is mainly on rainy or humid days that the spirit wanders, hungry for death, and eager to punish drunkards, womanisers or sometimes innocent victims. It is said that it sucks the alcohol out of drunkards through their navel when it finds them alone, and that it tears womanisers to pieces, removes their bones, and puts them in the sack where it keeps the remains of its father.\n\nSome versions say it appears as a giant of about six metres that moves about the treetops, creaking, and emitting its chilling whistle. Inside its old and tattered sack lie the bones of its father, or according to some renditions, its multiple victims. Other versions say he appears as the shadow of a tall thin man, with a hat, and goes after drunkards most of all.\n\nThey say that the whistler can appear by a house on certain nights, drop his sack on the ground and count the bones one by one. If anyone hears it, nothing will happen, but if no one hears it before dawn, one member of the family will never wake up again.\n\n"}
{"id": "4402685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402685", "title": "Viva Piñata (video game)", "text": "Viva Piñata (video game)\n\nViva Piñata is a 2006 life simulation game developed by Rare and published by Microsoft Game Studios for the Xbox 360. The game revolves around the player tending to a neglected garden in Piñata Island, in which different variations of piñatas must be bred whilst fending off disruptive interlopers. The project was headed by Gregg Mayles and the team behind the \"Banjo-Kazooie\" series, based on an idea from Rare co-founder Tim Stamper. Microsoft wanted the game to become a key franchise for the platform, and developed a tie-in television show to accompany the series. \"Viva Piñata\" was released in November 2006. \n\nThe game received positive reviews from critics, who praised the graphics, color palette, and numerous types of piñatas. They disliked the disruption caused by frequent autosaving. A Windows version was released in November 2007. The game started the \"Viva Piñata\" series, with and both released in 2008. \"Viva Piñata\" is included in Rare's 2015 \"Rare Replay\", a compilation of 30 games for the Xbox One.\n\n\"Viva Piñata\" is a first-person life simulation game in which the player restores and tends to a neglected garden on Piñata Island. The player uses gardening tools, such as shovels and watering cans, to plough their garden, sow seeds, create ponds, and sculpt the garden to their liking. When certain requirements are fulfilled, the garden will attract a black-and-white outline of a given piñata species. After fulfilling additional requirements, the piñata will become a resident, changing into a full-color version.\n\nOnce two piñatas of the same species are residents and their mating requirements are met, they can perform a \"romance\" dance. If the player successfully completes a maze minigame, the romance results in a baby piñata egg, which is delivered by a stork. The piñatas are not gendered, and hence any two piñatas of the same species can mate. Once a piñata species has successfully romanced, the player can use a candy shortcut to bypass their original romance requirements. The player can hatch the egg or send it to another player over Xbox Live. The game's antagonists include the \"Ruffians\" led by Professor Pester and \"sour piñatas\" who occasionally enter the player's garden with the sole intent of wreaking havoc: eating seeds, dropping poisonous piñata candies, and destroying objects. The player may tame sour piñatas by constructing fences around them. Weeds may occasionally sprout in the player's garden and will quickly spread to destroy vegetable rows if the player does not kill them in time.\n\nThe game features sixty types of piñatas. Certain animals are \"piñatavores\", and must eat other piñatas to become residents or reproduce. A food chain (referred to as the \"doughnut of life\") exists, with a number of piñata species having one or two others that are considered prey. When such piñatas are visiting the garden, they devour garden residents to satisfy their residency requirements. Once piñatas are residents, they will not eat each other unless instructed to do so by the player, although fights can break out between residents who do not share the predator–prey relationship. Piñatas die when they are broken open, either from another piñata's predaciousness, the hit of the player's or Professor Pester's shovel, or following an extended illness. Dead piñatas forfeit their equipped accessories.\n\nRare co-founder Tim Stamper conceptualized a gardening game for the handheld Pocket PC platform in 2002. A three-person team began work on a simple prototype while the company was still affiliated with Nintendo, prior to its Microsoft acquisition. Development transferred to the original Xbox and, ultimately, to the Xbox 360 for its enhanced graphical capabilities. The development team wanted its animals to have a unified style, which was how the concept artist arrived at the piñata conceit. The idea was exciting for the team, as piñatas were not commonplace in the United Kingdom. The connection between piñatas and candy-filled insides led to new gameplay directions.\n\nThe \"Viva Piñata\" team was a model for productivity and regular output within Rare and Microsoft Studios. Though compared to the 12-person teams behind earlier Rare games, the company's Xbox 360 development teams consisted of 50 to 60 people. The \"Viva Piñata\" team included about 50 people at its zenith. Microsoft transitioned its development teams to use its XNA package to streamline and reduce duplication in engineering efforts. Microsoft pressured the \"Viva Piñata\" development team to keep the game's themes children-friendly, as the parent company planned for the game and resulting franchise to increase the market appeal of their Xbox 360. In 2006, a Microsoft Games executive called the game its most important franchise. But its reception was tepid.\n\n\"Viva Piñata\" was planned as a larger intellectual property. 4Kids TV had agreed to make a \"Viva Piñata\" cartoon before the game was released. 4Kids selected the series out of several Microsoft properties offered. 4Kids also handled the series merchandising. The cartoon is tied very closely to the game, and its animations are based on the game's own 3D character models. Its episodes are approved by Rare's Gregg Mayles for their applicability to the game. The cartoon was also designed to give viewers tips on how to interact with the in-game piñatas. The animated series' storyline later influenced the plot of \"Trouble in Paradise\".\n\nAfter the release of \"Viva Piñata\" in 2006, its development team saw it as incomplete. The developers cut partial ideas from the release to meet their deadlines. Rare's Gregg Mayles said that the game sold well and steadily on par with their expectations and Xbox executive Phil Spencer added that the game was considered a success inside the company. The team incorporated player feedback and worked towards a \"more definitive version\" of the original.\n\nDuring the Microsoft press conference at E3 2007, a Microsoft Windows port of \"Viva Piñata\" was announced. The conversion was handled by Climax Group. The game is part of the Games for Windows programme which offers easier installation and support for Windows Vista's Games Explorer, Xbox 360 Controller for Windows, Parental Controls, and the use of Games For Windows - Live.\n\nIn 2007, Microsoft collaborated with amusement park Six Flags Mexico to promote the Xbox 360 as well as \"Viva Piñata\". To accomplish this, a tall, long piñata, specifically a Horstachio, was constructed at the park. At the time, it was the largest recorded piñata ever built.\n\n\"Viva Piñata\" received \"generally favorable\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. Nearly a year after its release, Rare's Justin Cook said that the game had sold about 500,000 copies.\n\nThe graphics were unanimously praised by critics. Justin Calvert of GameSpot stated the attention to detail was \"uniformly impressive\", and asserted that the visuals were cohesive. Erik Brudvig of IGN found that the game's graphical slowdown during its frequent autosaving to be startling, although he praised the presentation overall. Andrew Taylor of the \"Official Xbox Magazine\" praised the vibrant use of colors and attention to detail. Will Tuttle of Team Xbox similarly stated the colors were \"vividly vibrant\" and the design aesthetics \"remarkably appealing\", although he also found the autosaving slowdown frustrating. Gerald Villoria of GameSpy stated the graphics were \"breathtaking\", and noted the color palettes of the piñatas themselves gave the appearance that they were \"stripped directly from an animated show\".\n\nCritics commended various aspects of the gameplay. Calvert enjoyed the wide customization options and large number of piñata variations, stating that the gameplay itself was \"silky smooth\". Brudvig noted that there was a \"ton to do\"; he praised the encouragement of discovery and stated that it was \"constantly filled with moments where you find something new to do\". Tuttle commended the large number of piñatas, stating that finding managing all of the resources is \"a lot of work\". Villoria praised the \"surprisingly deep\" strategic gameplay, saying that it was one of the most \"entertaining and fulfilling\" experiences for the Xbox 360.\n\n\"Viva Piñata\" was nominated for six awards by the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences for its 10th annual awards covering 2006. The music score by Grant Kirkhope was nominated for Original Score at the 2007 BAFTA awards. The game was nominated for the \"Best Original Game\" in X-Play's \"Best Video Games of 2006\" awards. Other accolades include a Parents' Choice Award from the Parents' Choice Foundation. and GameSpot included the title as one of their ten nominees for their \"2006 Game of the Year\" award, although it received only 3% of the total votes.\n\nA sequel, \"\" was announced in May 2008 and released in September of that year. The sequel adds more than 30 new piñata species, a \"Just for Fun\" sandbox mode, and new co-operative modes, as well as new desert and arctic environments.\n\nRare announced plans to release a Nintendo DS version of the game at Comic-Con 2007. It was later revealed to be titled \"\" and was subsequently released in September 2008. Key changes include a control scheme which makes use of the stylus, as well as the presence of additional context-sensitive information on the second screen. On October 30, 2007, a party game spin-off, \"\" was released for the Xbox 360. Developed by Krome Studios, the game features the TV show piñata characters competing in races and close to 50 party mini-games.\n"}
{"id": "38373572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38373572", "title": "Warren Remedy", "text": "Warren Remedy\n\nCh. Warren Remedy, (1905-1912), was a Best in Show winner of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show in 1907, 1908, and 1909. She was a Smooth-coated fox terrier owned by Winthrop Rutherfurd, and is the only dog to have won Westminster three years in a row.\n\nRemedy was sired by Sabine Resist from Routon Dainty. She was bred by Winthrop Rutherfurd, and brought up at the Warren Kennels in Allamuchy Township, New Jersey. Other dogs which were bred from the same pairing included Warren Drastic, Warren Deputy, Warren Vogue and Warren Rescue.\n\nThe Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show introduced a Best in Show competition in 1907, the first since the show's inception in 1877. At the age of 20 months, Warren Remedy was entered in the competition and progressed through breed and group victories into the Best in Show round. She faced off against sixteen other breeds of dogs. These included the Rough Collie Squire of Tytton, who had won the Van Schaick Cup earlier in the show, and the English Sheepdog Dolly Gray, who won the Castle Gould Cup. Ten judges preceded over the Best in Show round and awarded the title to Warren Remedy. Immediately afterwards, Remedy competed once again at the show, this time for Ballyhoo Bay Challenge Cup awarded by the Ladies Kennel Association of America. A similar lineup of dogs competed for the trophy, with the exception of Squire of Tytton being replaced with the American-bred Rough Collie Mountaineer Magistrate. Remedy was expected to win this title as well, but it was instead awarded to the English Setter Deodora Prince. Later in the 1907 show season, Remedy was named Best in Show at the inaugural North Jersey Kennel Club dog show. A week after that victory and also in New Jersey, Remedy also won the award for the best dog or bitch in show at the Asbury Park dog show.\n\nRemedy retained the Best in Show title at the Westminster Kennel Club show in 1908, and afterwards was declared to be the \"best dog of her kind in America\". Later in 1908, Remedy was named the best bitch in the show at the Ladies Kennel Association of America show held in Mineola, New York.\n\nShe won Westminster once again in 1909, although reports mistakenly gave her name as \"Warren Rutherford\". Following her victory at Westminster in 1909, Remedy competed in the New England Kennel Club Show later in the same month. There she was beaten by the Smooth Fox Terrier Sabine Fernie from the Sabine Kennels.\n\nAt the 1910 Westminster Show, Remedy was beaten in what was viewed as a surprise victory in the best Smooth Fox Terrier bitch contest by Sabine Fernie. Fernie went on to be beaten by fellow Sabine Kennel's dog, Sabine Rarebit in the best overall Smooth Fox Terrier contest. Rarebit went on to win the Best in Show title, the first time it had been awarded to a dog other than Warren Remedy.\n\nWarren Remedy's death was reported by \"The New York Times\" on December 17, 1912. She died in the Warren Kennels on Winthrop Rutherfurd's farm in Allamuchy Township.\n\nWarren Remedy remains the only dog to have won Best in Show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show on three occasions, the most victories by any single dog. Bronze statues were later crafted of Remedy's form by Ric Chashoudian. These statues were used as awards to show dog owners for a series of awards by the Westminster Kennel Club. Likewise, crystal statues were created of Warren Remedy were created for the handlers of the show dogs.\n"}
{"id": "18253035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18253035", "title": "Éric Borel", "text": "Éric Borel\n\nÉric Borel (; 11 December 1978 – 24 September 1995) was a French high-school student and spree killer who, at the age of 16, murdered his family in Solliès-Pont in the arrondissement of Toulon on 23 September 1995, and afterwards shot dead twelve other people and injured four more in the village of Cuers the next day. When police arrived at the scene, Borel committed suicide.\n\nÉric Borel was the son of Marie-Jeanne Parenti and Jacques Borel, who were both working in the military at the time of his birth. However, their liaison was rather short, and after they separated, Eric was sent to Jacques Borel's parents in Limoges, where he stayed until he was five. When his mother, who had visited Eric only occasionally up to that time, began to live with Yves Bichet, she again took care of her son, much to his dislike, and took him to their home in Solliès-Pont.\n\nBorel's mother, an authoritarian and – at least outwardly – religious person and activist in the Secours catholique, mistreated and beat him—she believed him to be a \"child of sin\". He never developed a close relationship with his mother's new companion, with whom he was said to have frequent rows and who reportedly also beat him on occasions. However, Franck and Jean-Luc Bichet, Yves Bichet's sons, stated that their father had always been nice to Eric, even building him a shack for his chickens and other animals he took home.\n\nWhen Eric broke his arm at the age of eight, rather than to go home, he preferred to run away and hide, until he was found, shivering from pain. In this type of situation, Borel, who was known as a quiet and taciturn boy who kept to himself and rather tend the chickens in the backyard during his free time than to go out, grew up and developed an increasing admiration for the military, telling lies about heroic deeds of his father during the Indochina War and adoring his stepbrother Franck Bichet, who served in the army. He had an affection for weapons and used to shoot sparrows with an air gun.\n\nUntil his death, Borel attended the lycée professionnel Georges-Cisson in Toulon, where he studied electromechanics and did quite well academically. He was said to be a disciplined and quiet student. However, in his last year at school there was a radical change in behavior. He skipped classes without permission or explanation and became unaffable. He regularly said that he could not bear it anymore at home, that he had had enough of doing housework and being called names, and often stated his wish to join the military, like his father and grandfather. Apparently, the week prior to the shooting, he also told one of his classmates that he would commit suicide, but not before killing two or three people.\n\nBorel had one friend, 17-year-old Alan Guillemette, a classmate who was rather outgoing and popular among his peers and with whom he would hang out after school.\n\nMany reports erroneously stated that Borel's room was full of Nazi-insignia, and rumors he was sympathizing with fascist ideologies were spurred even more by the fact that his stepfather had attended several meetings of the Front National in 1989. But besides a picture of Adolf Hitler cut out from a newspaper, graffiti displaying a swastika on his door, a few books on World War II, as well as a documentary about David Koresh and the Waco siege, no evidence was found after his death that he was interested in any kind of politics. Also, a girl from Cuers spread the story that Eric had told her about his relationship with his half-sister Caroline, who was supposed to be his pregnant girlfriend. However, the sister in question did not exist, nor was it true that his father had died of cancer shortly before his rampage.\n\nThe series of attacks started on 23 September 1995, at about 6:00 p.m. CET, when Borel killed his stepfather, Yves Bichet, in the kitchen by shooting him four times with a Anschütz .22-caliber rifle, before smashing his head with a hammer. Police assumed that they had a quarrel beforehand, when Borel tried to run away from home. Next, Borel assaulted his half-brother, 11-year-old Jean-Yves Bichet, who was watching TV, in a similar manner, by first shooting him with the rifle and afterwards bludgeoning his head with the hammer. After wiping up the blood trails, Borel waited for his mother to come home.\n\nAs soon as his mother, Marie-Jeanne Parenti, arrived at home from church at about 8:30 p.m., Borel immediately killed her with a single shot to the head. In contrast to her husband and son no blunt force was used on Mrs. Parenti, although some reports have suggested that he beat her as well with either the hammer or a baseball bat. When his mother lay dead, Borel once again started to clean the house from blood, covered the bodies with sheets and closed all shutters, as well as the steel gate. Carrying a bag packed with food, money, a raincoat, a map of Limoges, and a pistol shooting rubber bullets, which was erroneously identified as a .22-caliber pistol in some reports, and armed with his father's rifle and his pockets full of ammunition, Borel made his way towards Cuers, at first by car, but eventually he crashed it into a wall, where he continued his path by foot. Presumably he spent the night between vines.\n\nThe bodies of the murdered family were found at approximately 1 a.m. by Yves Bichet's son Jean-Luc, a student living in Antibes who only occasionally visited his father on weekends. After calling police Bichet was first considered a suspect in the murders when giving contradictory information. The absence of Eric Borel remained undetected until about three hours later.\n\nOn the following day at 7:15 a.m., Borel arrived at the home of his friend Alan Guillemette. When Guillemette's mother opened the door Eric asked her to wake him. The two had a lengthy discussion in the garden, and apparently Eric wanted something from Guillemette, but when he declined and turned to go back into the house, Eric shot him in the back, mortally wounding him. From 7:30 a.m. onwards, Borel started shooting people at random. No one grew suspicious of his rifle until he started his rampage, since it was hunting season and the sight of rifles outside was to be expected.\n\nFirst he shot at Ginette Vialette through an open window, mortally wounding her, as well as Denise Otto, whom he killed, while she was bringing the trash out. He also hit Otto's husband, Jean, in the shoulder. Subsequently Borel injured an elderly woman who was walking in the streets with her husband and shot and wounded two brothers who were crossing his path. The shots he fired at Rodolphe Incorvala, once again through an open window, were eventually lethal. He later died in a hospital. Borel crossed the street to shoot and kill shopkeeper Mario Pagani, who was out buying a newspaper, with shots in the abdomen and head, as well as Mohammed Maarad in front of the \"Café du Commerce\". Marius Boudon and André Touret were killed while they were drawing money from an ATM and Andrée Coletta while she was taking her poodle for a walk. Finally he shot Pascal Mostacchi to death at Place Peyssoneau.\n\nBy 8:00 a.m., police arrived at the scene. Realizing that he was surrounded, Borel fatally shot himself in the head under a cypress tree in front of a school. Observers of the rampage stated he had been poised and calm all the while, taking great care at aiming and shooting, hitting most of his victims in the head and returning when he did not hit properly the first time. In total, Borel had fired about 40 shots.\n\nOn 23 October 1995, Jeanne Laugiero, 68, died in hospital from injuries sustained in the shooting, raising the death toll to 14 victims. The last death in the killing spree was 68-year-old Pierre Marigliano, who succumbed to his wounds on 2 March 1996, bringing the death toll to 15. Borel's shooting spree was the deadliest act of mass murder in France since Christian Dornier killed 14 people in Luxiol on 12 July 1989.\n\nAmong the wounded were Jean Otto and Jean Boursereau.\n\n"}
