{"id": "32544278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32544278", "title": "1964 Constitution of Afghanistan", "text": "1964 Constitution of Afghanistan\n\nThe 1964 Afghanistan Constitution was the constitution of Afghanistan from 1964 to 1977. It was drafted by a committee of foreign-educated Afghans, including Sardar Abdul Hakim Ziai and Sardar Abdul Rahim Ziai, appointed for the task by Mohammed Zahir Shah. The primary goals of the Constitution were to prepare the government and the people for gradual movement toward democracy and socio-economic modernization. A Loya Jirgah (grand council of notables) had debated, modified and approved its innovations, which included a bill of rights for all Afghans, explicitly including women. After public review the constitution was put into effect in October 1964.\n\nA new parliament was created, dominated by its lower house (the Wolesi Jirgah), which was to be elected through universal suffrage. It had the power to reject royal appointments to the cabinet and to dismiss it by a vote of no confidence. Laws passed by parliament were to have constitutional precedence over traditional Islamic law (the Sharia). Parliament was to meet regularly, not at royal pleasure as before. It could refuse budget increases, but could not reduce appropriations below the level of the previous year. Its members had control over the organization of parliament and enjoyed legal immunity for what they said in debate. Members had the right to form political parties, but their formation required legislation acceptable to the cabinet and, hence, the king.\n\nBold as its innovations were compared with the functional autocracy it replaced, the constitution was filled with provisions intended to assure that the royal government would not lose control. A wide constitutional gulf separated the cabinet from the parliament. The cabinet was to exercise the monarch's powers, including the initiation of all government policy and the invocation of emergency decrees. Cooperation between officials and legislators, integral to classical parliamentary systems, was discouraged. Legislators were prohibited from holding ministerial or other executive positions. The cabinet was assured control over the composition of the Meshrano Jirgah, the parliament's upper house.\n\nJudicial restructuring and elective provincial councils were endorsed, but the constitution did not prescribe their structure or working arrangements. The failure to spell out a complete structure for the government lent a provisional character to the constitution. At least seventy articles required parliamentary legislation in order for them to take effect.\n\nThe constitution's democratic features were especially provisional. Ample authority was retained for the executive branch to slow, halt or reverse legislation. Nor was caution only displayed toward would-be overweening legislators. The most notorious provision in the constitution was its prohibition of official or political activity by any member of the royal family other than the monarch. The implications of this clause would soon haunt the constitutionalists. No means was provided for an increasingly restless Muhammad Daud to return to power without nullifying the constitution.\n\nShortly after its enactment, the vulnerability of the constitution to political realities became dramatically clear. The adversary relationship it created between the cabinet and the parliament brought about tragedy and a serious loss of political momentum. In October 1965, following the election of the new legislature, an impasse over its approval of the new cabinet brought about rioting and intervention by the army leading to the death of at least three student demonstrators. All sides were appalled except the leftist agitators who were led by Marxist legislators. The proposed cabinet was withdrawn, a reshuffled one under the leadership of Muhammad Hashim Maiwandwal, a senior diplomat, was approved with little opposition. Officials and legislators were faced with running the new system with hopes considerably dampened.\n\nThe liberal or constitutional experiment, which lasted for the next eight years, has been generally seen as a political failure. The cabinet and legislature were constantly deadlocked, unable to enact laws vital to the constitution or seriously weakening it through long delays. Legislators proved to be effective critics of the bureaucracy, which responded by holding back legislation to avoid scrutiny or lengthy disputes.\n\nThere was a wide social and cultural gap between the legislators and senior ministry officials. Few of the former had had the exposure to the modern education and foreign experience enjoyed by senior ministry officials. More than 90 percent of the Wolesi Jirgah members represented rural constituencies. Legislators had the right to lobby ministers and senior bureaucrats directly. Doing so was more rewarding than dealing with middle rank provincial officials who had less authority and information. The constitution discouraged executive-legislative cooperation on policy, but it did not prevent the give and take of patronage.\n\n"}
{"id": "8845030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8845030", "title": "2006 Catalan constitutional referendum", "text": "2006 Catalan constitutional referendum\n\nA Catalan autonomy referendum was held on Sunday, 18 June 2006, to gauge support for either the ratification or repealing a reform of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. The question asked was \"Do you approve of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia Bill?\" (). The referendum resulted in 78.1% of voters supporting the bill on a turnout of 48.9%.\n\n"}
{"id": "13817147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13817147", "title": "Administrative Council for Economic Defense", "text": "Administrative Council for Economic Defense\n\nThe Administrative Council for Economic Defense (in Portuguese, \"Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica\", often referred to as CADE) is an agency of the government of Brazil. Its stated goals are \"guiding, inspecting, preventing and investigating economic power abuse by exercising a custodial role in its prevention and repression\".\n\n"}
{"id": "861237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861237", "title": "American Law Reports", "text": "American Law Reports\n\nIn American law, the American Law Reports are a resource used by American lawyers to find a variety of sources relating to specific legal rules, doctrines, or principles. It has been published since 1919, originally by Lawyers Cooperative Publishing, and currently by West (a business unit of Thomson Reuters) and remains an important tool for legal research.\n\nEach ALR volume contains several annotations. An annotation is an article that summarizes the evolution of a very specific legal concept in a concise and precise fashion. The article will either be preceded by the full text of an important relevant case, or in later series, contain a reference to the text of the case, which is reproduced at the end of the volume.\n\nThe article will contain a wide variety of relevant citations to cases from throughout the United States and secondary sources like law review articles. The range and number of citations is always strongly representative but not always guaranteed to be completely comprehensive.\n\nAlthough similar in tone to the articles in legal encyclopedias, ALR annotations are different in that they are not organized alphabetically, and they tend to delve more deeply into a specific legal principle or doctrine, while, in contrast, encyclopedia articles aim for a broader view of the legal issue. In addition, ALR articles are careful to provide cases on both sides of the legal issue and provide listings of cases according to their jurisdiction.\n\nSince the annotations are published in the order the leading cases were decided, there are various finding aids. The combined ALR Index indexes topics covered from ALR2d to the current series of ALR and all series of ALR Fed. West's ALR Digest now follows the classification system of the West American Digest System, and includes headnotes for the reported cases, as well as references to the annotations. For topics covered entirely by federal law, the softbound Quick Index indexes annotations in ALR Fed. The softbound Table of Cases (for a state case) or ALR Federal Table of Cases (for a federal case) provides ALR references for a particular case. A reader may also use the references in American Jurisprudence, Corpus Juris Secundum, and state encyclopedias published by Thomson West to find a more in-depth discussion in ALR. Finally, ALR articles may also be searched on Westlaw.\n\nALR has been published in several series (the current series is ALR7th) and there are series of ALR Fed (which focuses on federal law). ALR3d through ALR6th and ALR Fed are updated by pocket part supplements (the first series has a citation service, and ALR2d a Later Case Service). Annotations may be superseded by a later annotation in which the editor reanalyzes the law in light of recent developments.\n\n"}
{"id": "12610157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12610157", "title": "Arkansas Legal Services Partnership", "text": "Arkansas Legal Services Partnership\n\nThe Arkansas Legal Services Partnership was a consortium of two nonprofit legal services programs, the Center for Arkansas Legal Services and Legal Aid of Arkansas, that worked together to provide free civil legal assistance to low-income residents throughout Arkansas. While the two nonprofits still collaborate, the Arkansas Legal Services Partnership no longer exists.\n\nAccording to its website at one time, its vision was to “improve the lives of low-income Arkansas by championing equal access to justice for all regardless of economic or social circumstances.\"\n\nThe Center for Arkansas Legal Services (CALS) and Legal Aid of Arkansas (LAA) are 501(c)3 nonprofit organizations that provide free legal services to low-income individuals residing in the state of Arkansas in civil (non-criminal) cases, ranging from family to consumer and housing to individual rights cases. Together the two programs serve clients in all seventy-five counties in Arkansas. CALS, headquartered in Little Rock, serves 44 counties while LAA, based in Jonesboro, serves 31 counties.\n\nThe Arkansas Legal Services Partnership handled the following areas of law:\n\nAccording to one of its annual reports, Arkansas Legal Services Partnership handled more domestic violence cases than any other type of case. Data shows that if a victim of domestic abuse gets a divorce and custody of children, they are more likely to leave the abusive situation.\n\nThe vast majority of clients contact the program through a statewide toll-free HelpLine jointly operated by the two programs. Once financial eligibility is determined and a case opened, services may include:\n\n\nIn addition, the Arkansas Legal Services Partnership operated an online legal library and community education programs.\n\nBoth the Center for Arkansas Legal Services and Legal Aid of Arkansas operate a statewide HelpLine where clients are determined eligibility and what level of service is needed. Clients are assisted differently depending on their unique situation: some receive legal advice over the telephone; some receive detailed information sent by mail; others are provided brief services such as filing a form; and still others are referred to a staff or volunteer attorney for legal representation. In 2006 the Statewide HelpLine received 24,938 calls and opened 11,268 cases, but could not assist 10,115 callers because of resource shortages. The statewide toll-free HelpLine number is 1-800-9-LAW-AID (1-800-952-9243).\n\nLegal assistance is provided to eligible clients without charge. Clients may be required to pay court costs and other fees incidental to litigation. Clients must meet income and asset guidelines as well as case priorities. With some exceptions, clients must have incomes below 125% of the Federal Poverty guidelines which varies based on household size. \n\nThe Arkansas Pro Bono Partnership was a collaborative effort to improve and expand the reach of pro bono activities in the state. Sanctioned by the Arkansas Bar Association, the Partnership was charged with coordinating the recruitment, responsibilities, and recognition of volunteer attorneys. The Arkansas Pro Bono Partnership was staffed by the Arkansas Legal Services Partnership. The following comprised the Arkansas Pro Bono Partnership:\n\n\nThese programs still exist under the collaborative effort of the Center for Arkansas Legal Services and Legal Aid of Arkansas, while the Arkansas Pro Bono Partnership no longer exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "56388234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56388234", "title": "Broad form deed", "text": "Broad form deed\n\nAs a legal document, the broad form deed severs a property into surface and mineral rights. This allows other individuals or organizations other than the land owners to purchase rights to resources below the surface. These parties also receive use of surface resources-such as wood or water- to facilitate gathering the resources below ground. Based on English legal theory but an American creation from the early 1900's, the broad form deed was used by land and coal companies in many states within the Appalachian Region.\n\nAn American creation, the broad form deed did more than just transfer the title of all the mineral rights along with mining rights. The holder was also granted rights to do what they deemed necessary to locate minerals, create any infrastructure needed to amass and relocate the minerals, utilize any resources on the land for mining purpose (like trees or water), and allowed the holder to not be held liable over any damages or the condition of the land and water during or after mining. Views of land ownership at the time typically considered the owner to own from the center of the earth to the sky above. The broad form deed altered this view legally which bears the question of what legal precedent was in place that allowed for this severance to occur.\n\nThe broad form deed is based on the premise of severing the surface and mineral rights of property. The precedence of this idea comes from English legal theory. In this theory the King retained rights to various minerals on landowners estates for the purposes of maintaining the operations of the country and as such the King had authority to mine for those minerals. This precedence goes back to at least 1567 when the Earl of Northumberland disputed the Queen of England's right to minerals on his estate. Many charters for American colonies included clauses dedicating specified amounts of precious metals to the crown. After the American Revolution states sought control of mineral rights, however laws regarding control and ownership of mineral rights shifted and changed over time. Pressure for materials to fuel the industrial revolution resulted in development of new applications of estate severance based on the previous concepts; this included the broad form deed.\n\nThe selling of mineral rights began before the creation of the broad form deed. During late 1880’s in East Tennessee the people that lived in the mountains were reported to be hospitable and open with the mineral buyers and travelers. This shifted to hostility by 1900 as they considered some methods by the companies to acquire land to be deceitful. An example of practices that distanced the locals was that of gaining the land by forcing the land to be sold at public auction. They did this by purchasing rights to land from one of several heirs and upon the other heirs refusing to sell using the court system to force the land to be sold.\n\nAs schoolteacher from rural eastern Kentucky, John CC Mayo managed to accumulate quite a bit of wealth by purchasing mineral rights. He began by entering into a partnership with two other men in 1892 after combining funds. Using deed books and knowledge gained from the Kentucky Wesleyan College library, Mayo was able to determine those who had property over the most promising mineral deposits and started making deals. These options or \"agreement to purchase\" depended on him gaining the capital to complete purchases within the specified time-frame. Over the years he had successes acquiring land and worked with many coal and steel companies to get the railroads into the area so that mining could be profitable. After facing controversy in Virginia over how land was acquired, Mayo crafted the broad form deed so that the companies he worked for more securely held the rights to mine the minerals.\n\nAs technology progressed during the 1950s, the broad form deed became a controversial issue especially in Kentucky and Tennessee ; machines became more advanced and could mine large portions of land. Over the next few decades complaints about the broad form deed inspired state legislators to make changes to protect Kentucky’s surface land owners. In the 1956 case of Buchanan v. Watson, the Supreme Court of Kentucky established that damages made by modern mining techniques would not be assessed and granted the removal of all minerals on estates.\n\nThe controversy of the broad form deed continued into the 1960s as environmentalists and land owners continued to protest the deed. In the 1968 case Martin v. Kentucky Oak Mining Co., the 1956 Buchanan decision was upheld as the court decided “the mineral owner bought and paid for the right to destroy the surface... to remove the minerals”. In Judge Edward Hill dissenting opinion, he stated that “I am shocked and appalled that the court of last resort in the beautiful state of Kentucky would … lend its approval and encouragement to the diabolical devastation and destruction of a large part of the surface … 'without compensation to the owners thereof”.\n\nAlmost 18 years after the 1956 \"Buchanan\" decision the disagreement between the split estate owners continued. Environmentalists and activists continued to push for strong legislation and the abolishment of the broad form deed. State legislators had yet to change or abolish the deed until the 1974 \"Watson v. Kenlick Coal Co.\" case. This case ruled that if the mineral owners wanted to mine on the split estate they needed to request permission from the surface owners first. However, only months after the \"Kenlick\" decision, in the case \"Department for Natural Resources and Environment v. No. 8 Ltd\" it was decided that the \"Kenlick\" decision was unconstitutional. The legislators found that police powers to invade a citizen’s private home did not extend unless the situation threatened the land owner’s welfare and health.\n\nBy 1976, the federal government was working on legislation that would place restrictions on strip mining. After decades of disagreement, the federal government signed the \"Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA)\" in 1977, which placed restrictions on coal mining and strip mining in the United States. In response to SMCRA, Tennessee enacted the \"Tennessee Surface Owner Protection Act in 1977.\" This act stated that the method used for mineral extraction should be the same methods commonly used at the time of the broad form deed.\n\nIn 1981, a disagreement between a mining company and local residents in White County, TN was taken to the Tennessee Supreme Court. This case, Doochin v. Rackley was the result of a mine company’s effort to strip mine local lands that were home to local citizens. The court ruled in favor of the defendants because strip mining was not specifically allowed in deed. In contrast to the decision made in the \"No. 8 LTD\" (1975) case, the United States Supreme Court found that strip mining was unhealthy for the environment and therefore posed a threat to human life.\n\nAlmost a decade after the Kenlick decision was reversed the Kentucky General Assembly responded by creating the Mineral Deed Act of 1984. This act stated that the mineral owner could only operate a mine within the methods that were established at the time the deed was originally signed by the mineral and estate owner; that period of time is referred to as mineral severance. However, later in 1987, the \"Mineral Deed Act\" was overturned by the case \"Akers v. Baldwin\". In Akers v. Baldwin it was ruled that the \"Mineral Deed Act\" was unconstitutional because it violated the separation of powers and it “disturbed the Buchanan decision”. In the courts opinion, there may have been a “legitimate public purpose that motivated the passage of this legislation\". A year after the \"Mineral Deed Act\" was overturned the citizens of Kentucky voted for a broad form deed amendment. The amendment passed with a margin of 4 to 1 and restricted coal companies from strip mining on the split without the permission from the surface owner.\n\nIn 1993, President Clinton signed an amendment to the Stock Raising Homestead Act, discussing split estates which required companies to do four things: notify the land owners with a written letter of intent before beginning mining, create a plan that included minimal damages to the land, obtain a letter of consent from the surface owner, and give the land owners a letter promising complete reclamation and compensation.\n\nMany court cases between surface and mineral owners have resulted in changes to split estate regulations. For example, in the 1997 court case Gerrity Oil & Gas Corp. vs. Magness, it was ruled that the surface and mineral owners must be in compliance with each other's required use of land when using the estate in question, often requiring the mineral rights owner to change their plans of use of the surface to \"accommodate the surface estate owner.\" \n\nThe broad form deed is no longer used today, but many similar agreements were and still are created to separate mineral and surface rights. Today, a split estate occurs when one person or group owns the surface rights and another person or group owns the mineral rights. Often, in these situations, the right to access the minerals holds precedence over the surface owner's rights. The U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management has policies for split estates, applying only if the surface rights are privately owned and if the mineral rights are publicly owned and regulated by the Federal Government. If the mineral rights are not managed by the Federal Government, a lease agreement is arranged between the land and mineral owners and sometimes a surface use agreement is also created. \n\nResources including oil and shale gas are commonly extracted, but depending on the technology used, come with a high risk of contaminating the surface owner's land. Older oil and gas wells were less complicated than modern mining and fracking methods, used less water, and were not as harmful to the environment because of less waste production. However, shale gas fracking techniques produce wastewater which can be worse for the land above. The wastewater produced from fracking often contains salt, industrial chemicals, hydrocarbons, and radioactive material. The main concerns for the waste produced from shale gas fracking is for the water quality, human health, and the overall quality of life.\n\nThe waste produced from fracking has affected land and water on the surface. In 2009, seventeen cattle were found dead near a fracking site in Louisiana, resulting in a fine to the company. The conclusion of this case stated that waste had leaked from the mining well and contaminated the pasture. There have been more cases of spilled fracking fluid in 2009 in Hopewell Township and Dunkard Creek Pennsylvania, both resulting in the death of many fish and amphibians, to name a few. As of 2011, some shale gas had been discovered in highly populated areas, therefore creating a higher chance of pollution to the water supply.\n\nSafely disposing of large amounts of wastewater from natural gas and oil production is often difficult because it often contains significant amounts of \"salinity, toxic metals, and salinity.\" In a study by the Division of Earth and Ocean Sciences published in 2013, the water quality of surface waters near a wastewater treatment plant in Pennsylvania was tested. The plant, along with others, sometimes would treat oil and gas wastewater at brine treatment facilities and releasing it into nearby streams. The water tested was showed to contain high levels of \"chloride and bromide, strontium, radium, oxygen, and hydrogen isotopic compositions.\"\n"}
{"id": "14350883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14350883", "title": "Brown Dog affair", "text": "Brown Dog affair\n\nThe Brown Dog affair was a political controversy about vivisection that raged in England from 1903 until 1910. It involved the infiltration by Swedish feminists of University of London medical lectures, pitched battles between medical students and the police, police protection for the statue of a dog, a libel trial at the Royal Courts of Justice, and the establishment of a Royal Commission to investigate the use of animals in experiments. The affair became a \"cause célèbre\" that divided the country.\n\nThe controversy was triggered by allegations that, in February 1903, William Bayliss of the Department of Physiology at University College London performed an illegal vivisection, before an audience of 60 medical students, on a brown terrier dog—adequately anaesthetized, according to Bayliss and his team; conscious and struggling, according to the Swedish activists. The procedure was condemned as cruel and unlawful by the National Anti-Vivisection Society. Bayliss, whose research on dogs led to the discovery of hormones, was outraged by the assault on his reputation. He sued for libel and won.\n\nAnti-vivisectionists commissioned a bronze statue of the dog as a memorial, unveiled on the Latchmere Recreation Ground in Battersea in 1906, but medical students were angered by its provocative plaque—\"Men and women of England, how long shall these Things be?\"—leading to frequent vandalism of the memorial and the need for a 24-hour police guard against the so-called anti-doggers. On 10 December 1907, 1,000 medical students marched through central London waving effigies of the brown dog on sticks, clashing with suffragettes, trade unionists and 400 police officers, one of a series of battles known as the Brown Dog riots.\n\nIn March 1910, tired of the controversy, Battersea Council sent four workers accompanied by 120 police officers to remove the statue under cover of darkness, after which it was reportedly melted down by the council's blacksmith, despite a 20,000-strong petition in its favour. A new statue of the brown dog, commissioned by anti-vivisection groups over 70 years later, was erected in Battersea Park in 1985. According to Peter Mason in 1997, all that was left of the old statue was a hump in the pavement, the sign on a nearby fence reading \"No Dogs\".\n\nThere was significant opposition to vivisection in England, in both houses of Parliament, during the reign of Queen Victoria (1837–1901); the Queen herself strongly opposed it. The term \"vivisection\" referred to the dissection of living animals, with and without anaesthesia, often in front of audiences of medical students. In 1875 there were around 300 experiments on animals in the UK, a figure that had risen to 19,084 in 1903 when the brown dog was vivisected, and 4.11 million in 2012, 4,643 of them on dogs.\nPhysiologists in the 19th century were frequently criticized for their work. The prominent French physiologist Claude Bernard appears to have shared the distaste of his critics, who included his wife, referring to \"the science of life\" as a \"superb and dazzlingly lighted hall which may be reached only by passing through a long and ghastly kitchen\". In 1875 Irish feminist Frances Power Cobbe founded the National Anti-Vivisection Society (NAVS) in London and in 1898 the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection (BUAV). The former sought to restrict vivisection and the latter to abolish it.\n\nThe opposition led the British government, in July 1875, to set up the first Royal Commission on the \"Practice of Subjecting Live Animals to Experiments for Scientific Purposes\". After hearing that researchers did not use anaesthetics regularly, the commission recommended a series of measures, including a ban on experiments on dogs, cats, horses, donkeys and mules. The General Medical Council and \"British Medical Journal\" objected, so additional protection was introduced instead. The result was the Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, criticized by NAVS as \"infamous but well-named\".\n\nThe Act stipulated that researchers could not be prosecuted for cruelty, but that the animal must be anaesthetized, unless the anaesthesia would interfere with the point of the experiment. Each animal could be used only once, although several procedures regarded as part of the same experiment were permitted. The animal had to be killed when the study was over, unless doing so would frustrate the object of the experiment. Prosecutions could take place only with the approval of the Home Secretary. At the time of the Brown Dog affair this was Aretas Akers-Douglas, who was unsympathetic to the anti-vivisectionist cause.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Ernest Starling, Professor of Physiology at University College London, and his brother-in-law William Bayliss, were using vivisection on dogs to determine whether the nervous system controls pancreatic secretions, as postulated by Ivan Pavlov. Bayliss had held a licence to practice vivisection since 1890 and had taught physiology since 1900. According to Starling's biographer John Henderson, Starling and Bayliss were \"compulsive experimenters\", and Starling's lab was the busiest in London. \n\nThe men knew that the pancreas produces digestive juices in response to increased acidity in the duodenum and jejunum, because of the arrival of chyme there. By severing the duodenal and jejunal nerves in anaesthetized dogs, while leaving the blood vessels intact, then introducing acid into the duodenum and jejunum, they discovered that the process is not mediated by a nervous response, but by a new type of chemical reflex. They named the chemical messenger secretin, because it is secreted by the intestinal lining into the bloodstream, stimulating the pancreas on circulation. In 1905 Starling coined the term \"hormone\"—from the Greek \"hormao\" meaning \"I arouse\" or \"I excite\"—to describe chemicals such as secretin that are capable, in extremely small quantities, of stimulating organs from a distance.\n\nBayliss and Starling had also used vivisection on anaesthetized dogs to discover peristalsis in 1899. They went on to discover a variety of other important physiological phenomena and principles, many of which were based on their experimental work involving animal vivisection.\n\nStarling and Bayliss's lectures had been infiltrated by two Swedish feminists and anti-vivisection activists, Lizzy Lind af Hageby and Leisa Katherine Schartau. The women had known each other since childhood and came from distinguished families. Lind af Hageby, who had attended Cheltenham Ladies College in England, was the granddaughter of a chamberlain to the King of Sweden and daughter of a former chief justice of Sweden. Schartau's father was a Swedish army captain.\n\nIn 1900 the women visited the Pasteur Institute in Paris, a centre of animal experimentation, and were shocked by the rooms full of caged animals given diseases by the researchers. They founded the Anti-Vivisection Society of Sweden when they returned home, and in 1902 enrolled as students at the London School of Medicine for Women, a vivisection-free college that had visiting arrangements with other London colleges, to gain medical training for their anti-vivisectionist campaigns.\n\nThey attended 100 lectures and demonstrations at King's and University College, including 50 experiments on live animals, of which 20 were what Mason called \"full-scale vivisection\". They kept a diary, calling it \"Eye-Witnesses\" and later \"The Shambles of Science: Extracts from the Diary of Two Students of Physiology\" (\"shambles\" was a name for a slaughterhouse). The women were present when the brown dog was vivisected, and wrote a chapter about it entitled \"Fun\", referring to the laughter they said they heard in the lecture room during the procedure.\n\nAccording to Starling, the brown dog was \"a small brown mongrel allied to a terrier with short roughish hair, about 14–15 lb [c. 6 kg] in weight\". He was first used in a vivisection in December 1902 by Starling, who cut open his abdomen and ligated the pancreatic duct. For the next two months he lived in a cage, until Starling and Bayliss used him again for two procedures on 2 February 1903, the day the Swedish women were present.\n\nOutside the lecture room before the students arrived, according to testimony Starling and others gave in court, Starling cut the dog open again to inspect the results of the previous surgery, which took about 45 minutes, after which he clamped the wound with forceps and handed the dog over to Bayliss. Bayliss cut a new opening in the dog's neck to expose the lingual nerves of the salivary glands, to which he attached electrodes. The aim was to stimulate the nerves with electricity to demonstrate that salivary pressure was independent of blood pressure. The dog was then carried to the lecture theatre, stretched on his back on an operating board, with his legs tied to the board, his head clamped and his mouth muzzled.\n\nAccording to Bayliss, the dog had been given a morphine injection earlier in the day, then was anaesthetized during the procedure with six fluid ounces of alcohol, chloroform and ether (ACE), delivered from an ante-room to a tube in his trachea, via a pipe hidden behind the bench on which the men were working. The Swedish students disputed that the dog had been adequately anaesthetized. They said the dog had appeared conscious during the procedure, had tried to lift himself off the board, and that there was no smell of anaesthesia or the usual hissing sound of the apparatus. Other students said the dog had not struggled, but had merely twitched.\n\nIn front of around 60 students, Bayliss stimulated the nerves with electricity for half an hour, but was unable to demonstrate his point. The dog was then handed to a student, Henry Dale, a future Nobel laureate, who removed the dog's pancreas, then killed him with a knife through the heart. This became a point of embarrassment during the libel trial, when Bayliss's laboratory assistant, Charles Scuttle, testified that the dog had been killed with chloroform or the ACE mixture. After Scuttle's testimony Dale told the court that he had, in fact, used a knife.\n\nOn 14 April 1903 Lind af Hageby and Schartau showed their unpublished 200-page diary to the barrister Stephen Coleridge, secretary of the National Anti-Vivisection Society. Stephen Coleridge was the son of John Duke Coleridge, former Lord Chief Justice of England, and great-grandson of the poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge. His attention was drawn to the account of the brown dog. The 1876 Cruelty to Animals Act forbade the use of an animal in more than one experiment, yet it appeared that the brown dog had been used by Starling to perform surgery on the pancreas, used again by him when he opened the dog to inspect the results of the previous surgery, and used for a third time by Bayliss to study the salivary glands. The diary said of the procedures on the brown dog:\n\nThe allegations of repeated use and inadequate anaesthesia represented \"prima facie\" violations of the Cruelty to Animals Act. In addition the diary said the dog had been killed by Henry Dale, an unlicensed research student, and that the students had laughed during the procedure; there were \"jokes and laughter everywhere\" in the lecture hall, it said.\n\nAccording to Mason, Coleridge decided there was no point in relying on a prosecution under the Act, which he regarded as deliberately obstructive. Instead he gave an angry speech about the dog on 1 May 1903 to the annual meeting of the National Anti-Vivisection Society at St James's Hall in Piccadilly, attended by 2,000–3,000 people. Mason writes that support and apologies for absence were sent by writers Jerome K. Jerome, Thomas Hardy and Rudyard Kipling. Coleridge accused the scientists of torture: \"If this is not torture, let Mr. Bayliss and his friends ... tell us in Heaven's name what torture is.\n\nDetails of the speech were published the next day by the radical \"Daily News\" (founded in 1846 by Charles Dickens), and questions were raised in the House of Commons, particularly by Sir Frederick Banbury, a Conservative MP and sponsor of a bill aimed at ending vivisection demonstrations. Bayliss demanded a public apology, and when by 12 May it had failed to materialize he issued a writ for libel.\n\nErnest Starling decided not to sue. \"The Lancet\", no friend of Coleridge, wrote that \"it may be contended that Professor Starling ... committed a technical infringement of the Act.\" Coleridge tried to persuade the women not to publish their diary before the trial began, but they went ahead anyway, and it was published by Ernest Bell of Covent Garden in July 1903.\n\nThe trial opened at the Old Bailey on 11 November 1903 before Lord Alverstone, the Lord Chief Justice, and lasted four days, closing on 18 November. There were queues 30 yards long outside the courthouse. The \"British Medical Journal\" called it \"a test case of the utmost gravity\".\n\nBayliss's counsel, Rufus Isaacs, called Starling as his first witness. Starling admitted that he had broken the law by using the dog twice, but said that he had done so to avoid sacrificing two dogs. Bayliss testified that the dog had been given one-and-a-half grains of morphia earlier in the day, then six ounces of alcohol, chloroform and ether, delivered from an ante room to a tube connected to the dog's trachea. Bayliss said the tubes were fragile, and that had the dog been struggling they would have broken.\n\nA veterinarian, Alfred Sewell, said the system Bayliss was using was unlikely to be adequate, but other witnesses, including Frederick Hobday of the Royal Veterinary College, disagreed; there was even a claim that Bayliss had used too much anaesthesia, which is why the dog had failed to respond to the electrical stimulation. Bayliss said the dog had been suffering from chorea, a disease that causes involuntary spasm, and that any movement Lind af Hageby and Schartau had seen was not purposive. Four students, three women and a man, were called by Bayliss's counsel and testified that the dog had appeared to be unconscious.\n\nColeridge's barrister, John Lawson Walton, called Lind af Hageby and Schartau. They repeated they had been the first students to arrive and had been left alone with the dog for about two minutes. They had observed scars from the previous operations and an incision in the neck where two tubes had been placed. They had not smelled the anaesthetic and had not seen any apparatus delivering it. They said, Mason wrote, that the dog had arched his back and jerked his legs in what they regarded as an effort to escape. When the experiment began the dog continued to \"upheave its abdomen\" and tremble, they said, movements they regarded as \"violent and purposeful\".\n\nBayliss's lawyer criticized Coleridge for having accepted the women's statements without seeking corroboration, and for speaking about the issue publicly without first approaching Bayliss, despite knowing that doing so could lead to litigation. Coleridge replied that he had not sought verification because he knew the claims would be denied, and that he continued to regard the women's statement as true. \"The Times\" wrote of his testimony: \"The Defendant, when placed in the witness box, did as much damage to his own case as the time at his disposal for the purpose would allow.\"\n\nLord Alverstone told the jury that the case was an important one of national interest. He called \"The Shambles of Science\" \"hysterical\", but advised the jury not to be swayed by arguments about the validity of vivisection. After retiring for 25 minutes on 18 November 1903, the jury unanimously found that Bayliss had been defamed, to the applause of physicians in the public gallery. Bayliss was awarded £2,000 with £3,000 costs; Coleridge gave him a cheque the next day.\n\nThe \"Daily News\" asked for donations and raised £5,700 within four months to cover Coleridge's costs. Bayliss donated his damages to UCL for use in research; according to Mason, Bayliss ignored the \"Daily Mail\"s suggestion that he call it the \"Stephen Coleridge Vivisection Fund\". Gratzer wrote in 2004 that the fund may still have been in use then to buy animals.\n\n\"The Times\" declared itself satisfied with the verdict, although it criticized the rowdy behaviour of medical students during the trial, accusing them of \"medical hooliganism\". The \"Sun\", \"Star\" and \"Daily News\" backed Coleridge, calling the decision a miscarriage of justice. Ernest Bell, publisher and printer of \"The Shambles of Science\", apologized to Bayliss on 25 November, and pledged to withdraw the diary and pass its remaining copies to Bayliss's solicitors.\n\nThe Animal Defence and Anti-Vivisection Society, founded by Lind af Hageby in 1903, republished the book, printing a fifth edition by 1913. The chapter \"Fun\" was replaced by one called \"The Vivisections of the Brown Dog\", describing the experiment and the trial. The novelist Thomas Hardy kept a copy of it on a table for visitors. According to historian Hilda Kean, the Research Defence Society, a lobby group founded in 1908 to counteract the antivivisectionist campaign, discussed how to have the revised editions withdrawn.\n\nIn December 1903 Mark Twain, who opposed vivisection, published a short story, \"A Dog's Tale\", in \"Harper's\", written from the point of view of a dog whose puppy is experimented on and killed. Given the timing and Twain's views, the story may have been inspired by the libel trial, according to Mark Twain scholar Shelley Fisher Fishkin. Coleridge ordered 3,000 copies of \"A Dog's Tale\", which were specially printed for him by \"Harper's\".\n\nThe government appointed the Second Royal Commission on Vivisection on 17 September 1906. It heard evidence from scientists and anti-vivisection groups; Ernest Starling addressed the commission for three days in December 1906.\n\nAfter much delay (two of its ten members died and several fell ill), the commission reported its findings in March 1912. Its 139-page report recommended an increase in the number of full-time inspectors from two to four; restrictions on the use of curare, a poison used to immobilize animals during experiments; the euthanasia of animals in severe pain, even if it meant frustrating the experiment; and the tightening of the definition and practice of pithing. It also recommended the maintenance of more detailed records and the establishment of a committee to advise the Secretary of State on matters related to the Cruelty to Animals Act. The latter became the Animal Procedures Committee under the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986.\n\nAfter the trial Anna Louisa Woodward, founder of the World League Against Vivisection, raised £120 for a public memorial, and commissioned a bronze statue of the dog from sculptor Joseph Whitehead. The statue sat on top of a granite memorial stone, 7 ft 6 in (2.29 m) tall, that housed a drinking fountain for human beings and a lower trough for dogs and horses. It also carried an inscription \"(right)\", described by \"The New York Times\" in 1910 as the \"hysterical language customary of anti-vivisectionists\" and \"a slander on the whole medical profession.\"\n\nThe group turned to the borough of Battersea for a location for the memorial. Lansbury wrote that the area was a hotbed of radicalism—proletarian, socialist, full of belching smoke and slums, and closely associated with the anti-vivisection movement. The National Anti-Vivisection and Battersea General Hospital—opened in 1896, on the corner of Albert Bridge Road and Prince of Wales Drive, and closed in 1972—refused until 1935 to perform vivisection or employ doctors who engaged in it, and was known locally as the \"antiviv\" or the \"old anti\". The chairman of the Battersea Dogs Home, William Cavendish-Bentinck, 6th Duke of Portland, rejected a request in 1907 that its lost dogs be sold to vivisectors as \"not only horrible, but absurd\".\n\nBattersea council agreed to provide space for the statue on its Latchmere Recreation Ground, part of the council's new Latchmere Estate, which offered terraced homes to rent for seven and sixpence a week. The statue was unveiled on 15 September 1906 in front of a large crowd, with speakers that included George Bernard Shaw and the Irish feminist Charlotte Despard.\n\nMedical students at London's teaching hospitals were enraged by the plaque. The first year of the statue's existence was a quiet one, while University College explored whether they could take legal action over it, but from November 1907 the students turned Battersea into the scene of frequent disruption.\n\nThe first action was on 20 November, when undergraduate William Howard Lister led a group of students across the Thames to Battersea to attack the statue with a crowbar and sledgehammer. Ten of them were arrested by just two police officers. According to Mason, a local doctor told the \"South Western Star\" that this signalled the \"utter degeneration\" of junior doctors: \"I can remember the time when it was more than 10 policemen could do to take one student. The Anglo-Saxon race is played out.\"\n\nSeveral students were fined ₤5 by the magistrate, Paul Taylor, at South-West London Police Court in Battersea. This triggered another protest two days later, when 1,000 medical students from UCL, King's, Guy's and the West Middlesex hospitals marched along the Strand toward King's College, waving miniature brown dogs on sticks and a life-sized effigy of the magistrate, and singing, \"Let's hang Paul Taylor on a sour apple tree / As we go marching on.\" \"The Times\" reported that they tried to burn the effigy but, unable to light it, threw it in the Thames instead.\n\nWomen's suffrage meetings were invaded, though the students knew that not all suffragettes were anti-vivisectionists. A meeting organized by Millicent Fawcett on 5 December 1907 was left with chairs and tables smashed and one steward with a torn ear. The \"Daily Express\" reported it as \"Medical Students Gallant Fight with Women.\"\n\nThe rioting reached its height five days later, on Tuesday, 10 December, when 100 medical students tried to pull the memorial down. The previous protests had been spontaneous, but this one was organized to coincide with the annual Oxford-Cambridge rugby match at Queen's Club, West Kensington. The protesters hoped (in vain, as it turned out) that some of the thousands of Oxbridge students would swell their numbers. The intention was that, after toppling the statue and throwing it in the Thames, 2,000–3,000 students would meet at 11:30 pm in Trafalgar Square. Street vendors sold handkerchiefs stamped with the date of the protest and the words, \"Brown Dog's inscription is a lie, and the statuette an insult to the London University.\"\n\nIn the afternoon protesters headed for the statue, but were driven off by locals. The students proceeded down Battersea Park Road instead, intending to attack the Anti-Vivisection Hospital, but were again forced back. When one student fell from the top of a tram, the workers shouted that it was \"the brown dog's revenge\" and refused to take him to hospital. The \"British Medical Journal\" responded that, given that it was the Anti-Vivisection Hospital, the crowd's actions may have been \"prompted by benevolence\".\n\nA second group of students headed for central London, waving effigies of the brown dog, joined by a police escort and, briefly, a busker with bagpipes. As the marchers reached Trafalgar Square, they were 1,000 strong, facing 400 police officers, 15 of them on horseback. The students gathered around Nelson's Column, where the ringleaders climbed onto its base to make speeches.\n\nWhile students fought with police on the ground, mounted police charged the crowd, scattering them into smaller groups and arresting the stragglers, including one Cambridge undergraduate, Alexander Bowley, who was arrested for \"barking like a dog\". The fighting continued for hours before the police gained control. At Bow Street magistrate's court the next day, ten students were bound over to keep the peace; several were fined 40 shillings, or £3 if they had fought with police.\n\nRioting broke out elsewhere over the following days and months, as medical and veterinary students united. When Lizzy Lind af Hageby arranged a meeting of the Ealing and Acton Anti-Vivisection Society at Acton Central Hall on 11 December 1906, over 100 students disrupted it, throwing chairs and stink bombs when she tried to speak. The \"Daily Chronicle\" reported: \"The rest of Miss Lind-af-Hageby's indignation was lost in a beautiful 'eggy' atmosphere that was now rolling heavily across the hall. 'Change your socks!' shouted one of the students.\" Furniture was smashed and clothing torn.\n\nFor Susan McHugh of the University of New England, the political coalition that rallied to the statue's defence reflected the brown dog's mongrel status. The riots saw trade unionists, socialists, Marxists, liberals and suffragettes descend on Battersea to fight the medical students, even though, she writes, the suffragettes were not a group toward whom male workers felt any warmth. But the \"Brown Terrier Dog Done to Death\" by the male scientific establishment united them all.\n\nLizzy Lind af-Hageby and Charlotte Despard saw the affair as a battle between feminism and machismo. According to Coral Lansbury, the fight for women's suffrage became closely linked with the anti-vivisection movement. Three of the four vice-presidents of the National Anti-Vivisection Hospital were women. Lansbury argues that the Brown Dog affair became a matter of opposing symbols, the iconography of vivisection striking a chord with women. The vivisected dog on the operating board blurred into images of suffragettes force-fed in Brixton Prison, or women strapped down for childbirth or forced to have their ovaries and uteruses removed as a cure for \"mania\".\n\nBoth sides saw themselves as heirs to the future. Hilda Kean writes that the Swedish activists were young and female, anti-establishment and progressive, and viewed the scientists as remnants of a previous age. Their access to higher education had made the case possible, creating what feminist scholar Susan Hamilton called a \"new form of witnessing\". Against this, Lansbury writes, the students saw themselves and their teachers as the \"New Priesthood\", and the women and trade unionists as representatives of superstition and sentimentality.\n\nQuestions were asked in the House of Commons about the cost of policing the statue, which required six constables a day at a cost of £700 a year. London's police commissioner wrote to Battersea Council to ask that they contribute to it. Councillor John Archer, later Mayor of Battersea and the first black mayor in London, told the \"Daily Mail\" that he was amazed by the request, considering Battersea was already paying £22,000 a year in police rates. The Canine Defence League wondered whether, if Battersea were to organize raids on laboratories, the laboratories would be asked to pay the policing costs themselves.\n\nOther councillors suggested the statue be encased in a steel cage and surrounded by a barbed wire fence. Suggestions were made through the letters pages of the \"Times\" and elsewhere that it be moved, perhaps to the grounds of the Anti-Vivisection Hospital. The \"British Medical Journal\" wrote in March 1910:\n\nBattersea Council grew tired of the controversy. A new Conservative council was elected in November 1909 amid talk of removing the statue. There were protests in support of it, and the 500-strong Brown Dog memorial defence committee was established. Twenty thousand people signed a petition, and 1,500 attended a rally in February 1910 addressed by Lind af Hageby, Charlotte Despard and Liberal MP George Greenwood. There were more demonstrations in central London and speeches in Hyde Park, with supporters wearing masks of dogs.\n\nThe protests were to no avail. The statue was quietly removed before dawn on 10 March 1910 by four council workmen, accompanied by 120 police officers. Nine days later, 3,000 anti-vivisectionists gathered in Trafalgar Square to demand its return, but it was clear by then that Battersea Council had turned its back on the affair. The statue was at first hidden in the borough surveyor's bicycle shed, according to a letter his daughter wrote in 1956 to the \"British Medical Journal\", then reportedly destroyed by a council blacksmith, who melted it down. Anti-vivisectionists filed a High Court petition demanding its return, but the case was dismissed in January 1911.\n\nOn 12 December 1985, over 75 years after the statue's removal, a new memorial to the brown dog was unveiled by actress Geraldine James in Battersea Park behind the Pump House. Created by sculptor Nicola Hicks and commissioned by the National Anti-Vivisection Society and the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, the new dog is mounted on a Portland stone plinth and based on Hicks's own terrier, Brock. Peter Mason describes it as \"a coquettish contrast to its down-to-earth predecessor\".\n\nEchoing the fate of the previous memorial, the new dog was moved into storage in 1992 by Battersea Park's owners, the Conservative Borough of Wandsworth, they said as part of a park renovation scheme. Anti-vivisectionists campaigned for its return, suspicious of the explanation. It was reinstated in the park's Woodland Walk in 1994, near the Old English Garden, a more secluded spot than before.\n\nThe new statue was criticized in 2003 by historian Hilda Kean. She saw the old Brown Dog as a radical statement, upright and defiant, not begging for mercy: \"The dog has changed from a public image of defiance to a pet\". For Kean, the new Brown Dog, located near the Old English Garden as \"heritage\", is too safe; unlike its controversial ancestor, she argues, it makes no one uncomfortable.\n\n\nBooks\n\nJournal articles\n\nMaps\n\nBooks and articles\n\n"}
{"id": "8278425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8278425", "title": "Business license", "text": "Business license\n\nBusiness licenses are permits issued by government agencies that allow individuals or companies to conduct business within the government's geographical jurisdiction. It is the authorization to start a business issued by the local government.\nA single jurisdiction often requires multiple licenses that are issued by multiple government departments and agencies. Business licenses vary between countries, states, and local municipalities. There are often many licenses, registrations and certifications required to conduct a business in a single location.\n\nTypically, a company's business activity and physical location (address) determines which licenses are required to operate lawfully. Other determining factors may include the number of employees and the form of business ownership, such as sole proprietor or corporation. Government agencies can fine or close a business operating without the required business licenses.\n\nIn the United States, the Small Business Administration has a list of links to State websites for State licensing requirements. Each State has its own business registration and licensing requirements. Business.usa.gov is an official business link to the U.S. Government. Business.gov, managed by the U.S. Small Business Administration.\n\nIn Washington, D.C.\nMost individuals and companies doing business in the District of Columbia must obtain a Basic Business License from the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs. Separately, organizations (including non-profits and cooperatives, but not including sole-proprietorships and general partnerships) must register their business. Many types of businesses require additional certification or permits beyond the Basic Business License and registration. D.C. requires a \"Clean Hands Self-Certification\" from most applicants, which is an affidavit stating that the applicant does not owe more than $100 to the District. Tour Guides must submit a Physician's Certificate. Fees for businesses licenses vary. The fee for a Special Event license such as a marathon is $209. The license for a movie theater costs $1,079 per year, for a grocery store $289 per year, for a beauty shop $78 per year. (2003 schedule of fees, current as of March 2007) A Project Management Firm does not require a Basic Business License, nor does a Handyman. Residential House Painters must submit a Home Improvement Contract signed by the homeowner.\n\nPhysicians and other health care professionals require licenses from the Professional Licensing Administration in the Department of Health.\n\nPennsylvania allows online registration of small business start-ups, but does not provide licensing guidance.\nCertain actions are required by all businesses in Pennsylvania in order for them to continue in business in Pennsylvania. This includes New Hire Reporting (including reporting oneself as a new hire when starting a business).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5339378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5339378", "title": "Censorship by Google", "text": "Censorship by Google\n\nCensorship by Google is Google's removal or omission of information from its services or those of its subsidiary companies, such as YouTube, in order to comply with its company policies, legal demands, or various government censorship laws. Google's censorship varies between countries and their regulations, and ranges from advertisements to speeches. Over the years, the search engine's censorship policies and targets have also differed, and have been the source of internet censorship debates.\n\nNumerous governments have asked Google to censor what they publish. In 2012 Google ruled in favor of more than half of the requests they received via court orders and phone calls. This did not include China and Iran who block their site entirely.\n\nIn February 2003, Google stopped showing the advertisements of Oceana, a non-profit organization protesting against a major cruise ship operation's sewage treatment practices. Google cited its editorial policy at the time, stating \"Google does not accept advertising if the ad or site advocates against other individuals, groups, or organizations.\" The policy was later changed.\n\nIn April 2008, Google refused to run ads for a UK Christian group opposed to abortion, explaining that \"At this time, Google policy does not permit the advertisement of websites that contain 'abortion and religion' \".\n\nIn April 2014, though Google accepts ads from the pro-choice abortion lobbying group NARAL, they have removed ads for some anti-abortion crisis pregnancy centers. Google removed the Web search ads after an investigation by NARAL found evidence that the ads violate Google's policy against deceptive advertising. According to NARAL, people using Google to search for \"abortion clinics\" got ads advertising crisis pregnancy centers that were in fact anti-abortion. Google said in a statement that it had followed normal company procedures in applying its ad policy standards related to ad relevance, clarity, and accuracy in this case.\n\nIn September 2018, Google has removed from its YouTube website a paid advertisement placed by supporters of Russian opposition urging Russians to participate in a protest set for September 9. Russia's Central Election Commission earlier sent a request to Google to remove the advertisement, saying it violated election laws that call for a \"day of silence\" on election matters ahead of voting, but the advertisement was blocked even in regions where there is no voting set for September 9 and in regions where authorities have authorized the pension-reform protests.\n\nIn March 2007, allegedly lower resolution satellite imagery on Google Maps showing post-Hurricane Katrina damage in the U.S. state of Louisiana was replaced with higher resolution images from before the storm. Google's official blog of April revealed that the imagery was still available in KML format on Google Earth or Google Maps.\n\nIn March 2008, Google removed Street View and 360 degree images of military bases per The Pentagon's request.\n\nTo protect the privacy and anonymity of individuals, Google selectively blurred photographs containing car license number plates and people's faces in Google Street View. Users may request further blurring of images that feature the user, their family, their car or their home. Users can also request the removal of images that feature what Google term \"inappropriate content\", which falls under their categories of: Intellectual Property Violations; Sexually explicit content; Illegal, dangerous, or violent content; Child endangerment; Hate speech; Harassment and threats; Personal or confidential information. In some countries (e.g. Germany) it modifies images of specific buildings. In the United States, Google Street View adjusts or omits certain images deemed of interest to national security by the federal government.\n\nIn the United States, Google commonly filters search results to comply with Digital Millennium Copyright Act-related legal complaints, such as in 2002 when Google filtered out websites that provided information critical of Scientology.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it was reported that Google had 'delisted' Inquisition 21st century, a website which claims to challenge moral authoritarian and sexually absolutist ideas in the United Kingdom. Google later released a press statement suggesting Inquisition 21 had attempted to manipulate search results. In Germany and France, a study reported that approximately 113 White nationalist, Nazi, anti-semitic, Islamic extremism and other websites had been removed from the German and French versions of Google. Google has complied with these laws by not including sites containing such material in its search results. However, Google does list the number of excluded results at the bottom of the search result page and links to Lumen (formerly Chilling Effects) for explanation.\n\n Google censors the term \"lolicon\" on its search results, stopping users from finding meaningful results regarding lolicon material, even if the user types words along with the term which would typically lead to explicit content results; the terms \"loli\" and \"lolita\" also suffer from censorship when it is attempted to find meaningful results on the subject.\n\n, in the U.S., U.K., Australia and some other countries Google removed the option to turn off the SafeSearch image filter entirely, forcing users to enter more specific search queries to get adult content. Prior to the change three SafeSearch settings—\"on\", \"moderate\", and \"off\"—were available to users. Following the change, two \"Filter explicit results\" settings—\"on\" and \"off\"—were newly established. The former and new \"on\" settings are similar, and exclude explicit images from search results. The new \"off\" setting still permits explicit images to appear in search results, but users need to enter more specific search requests, and no direct equivalent of the old \"off\" setting exists following the change because adding additional explicit search terms alters the search results. The change brings image search results into line with Google's existing settings for web and video search.\n\nSome users have stated that the lack of a completely unfiltered option amounts to \"censorship\" by Google. A Google spokesperson disagreed, saying that Google is \"not censoring any adult content,\" but \"want to show users exactly what they are looking for—but we aim not to show sexually-explicit results unless a user is specifically searching for them.\".\n\nFollowing a settlement with the United States Food and Drug Administration ending Google Adwords advertising of Canadian pharmacies that permitted Americans access to cheaper prescriptions, Google agreed to several compliance and reporting measures to limit visibility of \"rogue pharmacies\". Google and other members of the Center for Safe Internet Pharmacies are collaborating to remove illegal pharmacies from search results, and participating in \"Operation Pangea\" with the FDA and Interpol.\n\nIn January 2010, Google was reported to have stopped providing automatic suggestions for any search beginning with the term \"Islam is\", while it continued to do so for other major religions.\nAccording to Wired.com, a Google spokesperson stated, \"this is a bug and we’re working to fix it as quickly as we can.\" Suggestions for \"Islam is\" were available later that month. The word \"Bilderberg\" and the family name \"Buchanan\" were also reportedly censored in the auto-complete results, but were available by February 2010 as well. Nonetheless, Google continues to filter certain words from autocomplete suggestions, describing them as \"potentially inappropriate\".\n\nThe publication \"\" has compiled a list of words that are restricted by Google Instant. These are terms that the company's Instant Search feature will not search. Most terms are often vulgar and derogatory in nature, but some apparently irrelevant searches including \"Myleak\" are removed.\n\n, Google's Auto Complete feature would not complete certain words such as \"bittorrent\", \"torrent\", \"utorrent\", \"megaupload\", and \"rapidshare\", and Google actively censors search terms or phrases that its algorithm considers as likely constituting spam or intending to manipulate search results.\n\nIn September 2012, multiple sources reported that Google had removed bisexual from the list of blacklisted terms for Instant Search.\n\nIn 2013, the Swedish Language Council included the Swedish version of the word \"\"ungoogleable\" (\"\"\") in its list of new words. It had \"defined the term as something that cannot be found with any search engine\". Google objected to its definition, wanting it to only refer to Google searches, and the Council removed it in order to avoid a legal confrontation. They also accused Google of trying to \"control the Swedish language\".\n\nOn August 31, 2014, almost 200 private pictures of various celebrities, containing nudity and explicit content, were made public on certain websites. Google was criticized for linking to such content after some of them became popular enough to reach the front page of some search results. Shortly after, Google removed most search results that linked users directly to such content from the incident.\n\nIn January 2010, Google Australia removed links to satirical website Encyclopedia Dramatica's \"Aboriginal\" article citing it as a violation of Australia's Racial Discrimination Act. After the website's domain change in 2011, the article resurfaced in Google Australia's search results.\n\nOn 19 June 2014, it was reported that Google had been ordered to remove search results that linked to websites of a company called Datalink by the Supreme Court of British Columbia. The websites in question sell network device technology that Datalink is alleged to have stolen from Equustek Solutions. Google voluntarily removed links from google.ca, the main site used by Canadians, but the Court granted a temporary injunction applying to all Google sites across the world. Google argued that Canadian law could not be imposed across the world and was given until 27 June 2014 to comply with the Court's ruling.\n\nGoogle adhered to the Internet censorship policies of China, enforced by means of filters colloquially known as \"The Great Firewall of China\" until March 2010. Google.cn search results were filtered so as not to bring up any results perceived to be harmful to the People's Republic of China (PRC). Google claimed that some censorship is necessary in order to keep the Chinese government from blocking Google entirely, as occurred in 2002.\n\nGoogle claimed it did not plan to give the government information about users who search for blocked content, and will inform users that content has been restricted if they attempt to search for it. As of 2009, Google was the only major China-based search engine to explicitly \"inform\" the user when search results are blocked or hidden. , Google no longer informs the user of possible censorship for certain queries during search.\nThe Chinese government has restricted citizens' access to popular search engines such as Altavista, Yahoo!, and Google in the past. This complete ban has since been lifted. However, the government remains active in filtering Internet content. In October 2005, Blogger and access to the Google Cache were made available in mainland China; however, in December 2005, some mainland Chinese users of Blogger reported that their access to the site was once again restricted.\n\nIn January 2006, Google agreed that the China's version of Google, Google.cn, would filter certain keywords given to it by the Chinese government. Google pledged to tell users when search results are censored and said that it would not \"maintain any services that involve personal or confidential data, such as Gmail or Blogger, on the mainland.\" Google said that it does not plan to give the government information about users who search for blocked content, and will inform users that content has been restricted if they attempt to search for it. Searchers may encounter a message which states: \"In accordance with local laws and policies, some of the results have not been displayed.\" Google issued a statement saying that \"removing search results is inconsistent with Google's mission\" but that the alternative — being shut down entirely and thereby \"providing no information (or a heavily degraded user experience that amounts to no information) is more inconsistent with our mission.\" Initially, both the censored Google.cn and the uncensored Chinese-language Google.com were available. In June 2006, however, China blocked Google.com once more.\n\nSome Chinese Internet users were critical of Google for assisting the Chinese government in repressing its own citizens, particularly those dissenting against the government and advocating for human rights. Furthermore, Google had been denounced and called hypocritical by Free Media Movement and Reporters Without Borders for agreeing to China's demands while simultaneously fighting the United States government's requests for similar information. Google China had also been condemned by Reporters Without Borders, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.\n\nOn February 14, 2006, protesters organized in a \"mass breakup with Google\" whereby users agreed to boycott Google on Valentine's Day to show their disapproval of the Google China policy.\n\nIn June 2009, Google was ordered by the Chinese government to block various overseas websites, including some with sexually explicit content. Google was criticized by the China Illegal Information Reporting Center (CIIRC) for allowing search results that included content that was sexual in nature, claiming the company was a dissemination channel for a “huge amount of porn and lewd content”.\n\nOn January 12, 2010, in response to an apparent hacking of Google's servers in an attempt to access information about Chinese dissidents, Google announced that “we are no longer willing to continue censoring our results on Google.cn, and so over the next few weeks we will be discussing with the Chinese government the basis on which we could operate an unfiltered search engine within the law, if at all.”\n\nOn March 22, 2010, after talks with Chinese authorities failed to reach an agreement, the company redirected its censor-complying Google China service to its Google Hong Kong service, which is outside the jurisdiction of Chinese censorship laws. However, at least as of March 23, 2010, \"The Great Firewall\" continues to censor search results from the Hong Kong portal, www.google.com.hk (as it does with the US portal, www.google.com) for controversial terms such as \"Falun gong\" and \"the June 4th incident\" (Tiananmen Square incident). ”\n\nIn the August 2018, it was revealed that Google was working on a version of its search engine for use in China, which would censor content according to the restrictions placed by the Chinese government. This project was working on by a small percentage of the company, and was codenamed Dragonfly. A number of Google employees expressed their concern about the project, and several resigned.\n\nIn July 2014 Google began removing certain search results from its search engines in the European Union in response to requests under the right to be forgotten. Articles whose links were removed, when searching for specific personal names, included a 2007 blog by the BBC journalist Robert Peston about Stan O'Neil, a former chairman of investment bank Merill Lynch, being forced out after the bank made huge losses. Peston criticised Google for \"...cast[ing him] into oblivion\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that six of its articles, including three relating to a former Scottish football referee, had been 'hidden'. Other articles, including one about French office workers using post-it notes and another about a collapsed fraud trial of a solicitor standing for election to the Law Society's ruling body, were affected.\n\nSkynews.com reported that a story about Kelly Osbourne falling ill on the set of Fashion Police in 2013 had been removed.\n\nThe \"Oxford Mail\" reported that its publishers had been notified by Google about the removal of links to the story of a conviction for shoplifting in 2006. The paper said it was not known who had asked Google to remove the search result, but there had been a previous complaint to the Press Complaints Commission (PCC) in 2010, concerning accuracy and claiming that the report was causing \"embarrassment\", requesting the story to be taken off the paper's website. The paper said two factual amendments were made to the article and the PCC dismissed the complaint.\n\nAn article about the conversion to Islam of the brother of George Osborne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, was removed after a request to Google from an unknown person under the right-to-be-forgotten ruling.\n\n\"The Telegraph\" reported that links to a report on its website about claims that a former Law Society chief faked complaints against his deputy were hidden. The search results for the articles for the same story in the Guardian and the Independent were also removed. \"The Independent\" reported that its article, together with an article on the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004 and one on new trends in sofa design in 1998, had been removed. The Telegraph also reported that links to articles concerning a student's 2008 drink-driving conviction and a 2001 case that resulted in two brothers each receiving nine-month jail terms for affray had been removed.\n\nThe Spanish newspaper \"El Mundo\" reported that some results were hidden over a 2008 news report of a Spanish Supreme Court ruling involving executives of Riviera Coast Invest who were involved in a mortgage mis-selling scandal.\n\nOn 5 July 2014, German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\" reported removal of a search result to an article about Scientology.\n\nOn 19 August 2014, the BBC reported that Google had removed 12 links to stories on BBC News.\n\nOn October 22, 2002, a study reported that approximately 113 Internet sites had been removed from the German and French versions of Google. This censorship mainly affected White Nationalist, Nazi, anti-semitic, Islamic extremist websites and at least one fundamentalist Christian website. Under French and German law, hate speech and Holocaust denial are illegal. In the case of Germany, violent or sex-related sites such as YouPorn and BME that the \"Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende Medien\" deems harmful to youth are also censored.\n\nGoogle has complied with these laws by not including sites containing such material in its search results. However, Google does list the number of excluded results at the bottom of the search result page and links to Lumen (formerly known as Chilling Effects) for explanation.\n\nIn March 2018, Google delisted a Wordpress hosted site from search results in Sweden, following an intense media frenzy targeted against Google, YouTube and Facebook by the tabloid Expressen and the daily newspaper Dagens Nyheter. The Wordpress site lists Swedish Jews in the public sphere, and also agitates against the dominant publishing house Bonnier Group and its soft power. Bonnier Group is the owner of both newspapers.\n\nAlthough perfectly legal in Sweden, the Wordpress site was described as anti-semitic. The Bonnier papers argued that Google should not promote such content, and above all not at a high rank. Ministers in the Swedish green-left government agreed with this sentiment, and threatened with national and EU regulation unless Google adapt its algorithms and delist contents of ”threats and hate” \"(hot och hat)\". Google eventually delisted the site in Sweden due to copyright claims.\n\nSaid papers also targeted the YouTube channel Granskning Sverige (Scrutiny Sweden) for its alleged extreme right-wing contents. The channel was a civic journalism project, in which members called authorities, journalists and other public figures, although scrutiny of such figures were perceived as a “threat”. The interviews were broadcast against a black backdrop with the channel logotype, and the occasional use of screen dumps from newspaper articles related to the interviews. This is standard procedure among Swedish media. However, Google eventually complied with the demands, and closed the channel, citing copyright infringement and violation of terms of agreement.\n\nOn April 13, 2018, Google took part in a meeting with the Swedish government, to discuss the search company's role in the media landscape. Minister of Justice, Morgan Johansson (Social Democrats), and Minister of Digitization, Peter Eriksson (Green Party), expressed concerns that “unlawful” and “harmful” content was facilitated by Google, and that “trolls” could have a negative impact on the upcoming Swedish parliamentary election. Google agreed to refine its algorithms, and also hire more staff to make sure “threats and hate” \"(hot och hat)\" are eliminated from Google search and YouTube videos. Critics have voiced concerns that private international companies are mandated to put censorship into effect to comply with local regulations without guidance from courts, and that free speech is deteriorating at an accelerating rate.\n\nIn September 2016, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare revealed that Google had agreed to censor search results and advertising of prenatal sex discernment, which is illegal in India.\n\nIn 2015 and 2017, Google removed certain search results from its search engine in Israel, following gag orders.\n\nOn 21 September 2006, it was reported that Google had 'delisted' Inquisition 21st Century, a website which claims to challenge moral authoritarian and sexually absolutist ideas in the United Kingdom. According to Inquisition 21, Google was acting \"in support of a campaign by law enforcement agencies in the US and UK to suppress emerging information about their involvement in major malpractice\", allegedly exposed by their own investigation of and legal action against those who carried out Operation Ore, a far reaching and much criticized law enforcement campaign against the viewers of child pornography. Google released a press statement suggesting Inquisition 21 had attempted to manipulate search results.`\n\nGoogle commonly removes search results to comply with Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)-related legal complaints.\n\nIn 2002, \"in an apparent response to criticism of its handling of a threatening letter from a Church of Scientology lawyer,\" Google began to make DMCA \"takedown\" letters public, posting such notices on the Chilling Effects archive, which archives legal threats made against Internet users and Internet sites.\n\nIn mid-2016, Google conducted a two-month standoff with writer Dennis Cooper after deleting his Blogger and Gmail accounts without warning or explanation following a single anonymous complaint. The case drew worldwide media attention, and finally resulted in Google returning Cooper's content to him.\n\nIn June 2017 the Canadian supreme court ruled that Google can be forced to remove search results worldwide. Civil liberties groups including Human Rights Watch, the BC Civil Liberties Association, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation argue that this would set a precedent for Internet censorship. In an appeal Google argued that the global reach of the order was unnecessary and that it raised concerns over freedom of expression. While the court writes that \"we have not, to date, accepted that freedom of expression requires the facilitation of the unlawful sale of goods\" OpenMedia spokesman David Christopher warns that \"there is great risk that governments and commercial entities will see this ruling as justifying censorship requests that could result in perfectly legal and legitimate content disappearing off the web because of a court order in the opposite corner of the globe\".\n\nYouTube, a video sharing website and subsidiary of Google, in its Terms of Service, prohibits the posting of videos which violate copyrights or depict pornography, illegal acts, gratuitous violence, or hate speech. User-posted videos that violate such terms may be removed and replaced with a message that reads, \"This video has been removed due to a violation of our Terms of Service.\"\n\nIn September 2007, YouTube blocked the account of Wael Abbas, an Egyptian activist who posted videos of police brutality, voting irregularities and anti-government demonstrations under the Mubarak regime. Shortly afterward, his account was subsequently restored, and later also 187 of his videos.\n\nIn 2006, Thailand blocked access to YouTube for users with Thai IP addresses. Thai authorities identified 20 offensive videos and demanded that Google remove them before it would unblock any YouTube content. In 2007 a Turkish judge ordered access to YouTube blocked because of content that insulted former president Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, a crime under Turkish law. On February 22, 2008, Pakistan Telecommunications attempted to block regional access to YouTube following a government order. The attempt subsequently caused a worldwide YouTube blackout that took 2 hours to correct. Four days later, Pakistan Telecom lifted the ban after YouTube removed controversial religious comments made by a Dutch government official concerning Islam.\n\nIn October 2008, YouTube removed a video by Pat Condell titled \"Welcome to Saudi Britain\"; in response, his fans re-uploaded the video themselves and the National Secular Society wrote to YouTube in protest. The video was eventually restored.\n\nIn 2016, YouTube launched a localized Pakistani version of its website for the users in Pakistan in order to censor content considered blasphemous by the Pakistani government as a part of its deal with the latter. As a result, the three-year ban on YouTube by the Pakistani government was subsequently lifted.\n\nYouTube policies restrict certain forms of content from being included in videos being monetized with advertising, including strong violence, language, sexual content, and \"controversial or sensitive subjects and events, including subjects related to war, political conflicts, natural disasters and tragedies, even if graphic imagery is not shown\", unless the content is \"usually newsworthy or comedic and the creator's intent is to inform or entertain\".\n\nIn August 2016, YouTube introduced a new system to notify users of violations of the \"advertiser-friendly content\" rules, and allow them to appeal. Following its introduction, many prominent YouTube users began to accuse the site of engaging in \"de facto\" censorship, arbitrarily disabling monetization on videos discussing various topics such as skin care, politics, and LGBT history. Philip DeFranco argued that not being able to earn money from a video was \"censorship by a different name\", while Vlogbrothers similarly pointed out that YouTube had flagged both \"Zaatari: thoughts from a refugee camp\" and \"Vegetables that look like penises\" (although the flagging on the former was eventually overturned). The hashtag \"#YouTubeIsOverParty\" was prominently used on Twitter as a means of discussing the controversy. A YouTube spokesperson stated that \"while our policy of demonetizing videos due to advertiser-friendly concerns hasn't changed, we've recently improved the notification and appeal process to ensure better communication to our creators.\"\n\nIn March 2017, a number of major advertisers and prominent companies began to pull their advertising campaigns from YouTube, over concerns that their ads were appearing on objectionable and/or extremist content, in what the YouTube community began referring to as a 'boycott'. YouTube personality PewDiePie described these boycotts as an \"adpocalypse\", noting that his video revenue had fallen to the point that he was generating more revenue from YouTube Red subscription profit sharing (which is divided based on views by subscribers) than advertising. On April 6, 2017, YouTube announced planned changes to its Partner Program, restricting new membership to vetted channels with a total of at least 10,000 video views. YouTube stated that the changes were made in order to \"ensure revenue only flows to creators who are playing by the rules\".\n\nIn July 2017, YouTube began modifying suggested videos to debunk terrorist ideologies. In August 2017, YouTube wrote a blog post explaining a new \"limited state\" for religious and controversial videos, which wouldn't allow comments, likes, monetization and suggested videos.\n\nIn March 2018, \"The Atlantic\" found that YouTube had de-listed a video where journalist Daniel Lombroso reported a speech by white nationalist Richard B. Spencer at the 2016 annual conference of the National Policy Institute, where they celebrated Donald Trump's win at the presidential election. YouTube re-listed the video after \"The Atlantic\" sent a complaint.\n\nIn March 2017, the \"Restricted Mode\" feature was criticized by YouTube's LGBT community for unfairly filtering videos that discuss issues of human sexuality and sexual and gender identity, even when there is no explicit references to sexual intercourse or otherwise inappropriate content for children. Rapper Mykki Blanco told \"The Guardian\" that such restrictions are used to make LGBT vloggers feel \"policed and demeaned\" and \"sends a clear homophobic message that the fact that my video displays unapologetic queer imagery means it's slapped with an 'age restriction', while other cis, overly sexualised heteronormative work\" remain uncensored. Musicians Tegan and Sara similarly argued that LGBT people \"shouldn't be restricted\", after acknowledging that the mode had censored several of their music videos.\n\nCritics have stressed that LGBT content should not be seen as inherently sexual or inappropriate for children. A study by GLSEN Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network found that LGBT youth are \"five times as likely as non-LGBT youth to have searched information online on sexuality,\" and that \"81% of LGBT youth search for health and medical information online.\" YouTube later stated that a technical error on Restricted Mode wrongfully impacted \"hundreds of thousands\" LGBT-related videos.\n\nIn October 2017, conservative commentator Dennis Prager sued YouTube. He argued that the site was systematically discriminating against conservative viewpoints, including the placement of \"40 of our PragerU's 300 videos on the restricted list\". On March 26 2018 U.S. District Court Judge Lucy Koh dismissed the case, ruling that PragerU had failed to prove Google, as a private company, had infringed on its free speech rights.\n\nIn 2017 YouTube changed its way of screening uploaded videos. This new system, dubbed the \"Algorithm\" by users, automatically deprecates videos seemingly at random but mostly right-wing and anti-liberal content. The Rebel Media is one of the biggest right-wing channels hit by this system.\n\nOn May 10, 2007, shareholders of Google voted down an anti-censorship proposal for the company. The text of the failed proposal submitted by New York City's Office of the Comptroller (which controls a significant number of shares on behalf of retirement funds) stated that:\n\n\nDavid Drummond, senior vice president for corporate development, said \"Pulling out of China, shutting down Google.cn, is just not the right thing to do at this point... but that's exactly what this proposal would do.\"\n\nCEO Eric Schmidt and founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin recommended that shareholders vote against the proposal. Together they hold 66.2 percent of Google's total shareholder voting power, meaning that they could themselves have declined the anti-censorship proposal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33871771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33871771", "title": "Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004", "text": "Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004\n\nThe Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004 (c 27) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe following consultation documents and reports are precursors of this Act:\n\nThis Part relates to community interest companies.\n\nThe Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004 (Commencement) and Companies Act 1989 (Commencement No 18) Order 2004 (S.I. 2004/3322 (C. 154)) was made under this section.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14831257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14831257", "title": "Contributor License Agreement", "text": "Contributor License Agreement\n\nA Contributor License Agreement (CLA) defines the terms under which intellectual property has been contributed to a company/project, typically software under an open source license.\n\nCLAs can be used to enable vendors to easily pursue legal resolution in the case of copyright disputes, or to relicense products to which contributions have been received from third parties.\n\nThe purpose of a CLA is to ensure that the guardian of a project's outputs has the necessary ownership or grants of rights over all contributions to allow them to distribute under the chosen license. In some cases this will mean that the contributor will assign the copyright in all contributions to the project owner; in other cases, they will grant an irrevocable licence to allow the project maintainer to use the contribution. CLAs also have roles in raising awareness of IPR issues within a project.\n\nCompanies and projects that use CLAs include:\n\n\nThe Canonical contributor agreement was a Contributor License Agreement required by Canonical Ltd for all contributions to many projects established by Canonical.\n\nIn it, the contributor assigned copyright to Canonical and at the same time Canonical gave the contributor \"a world-wide, non-exclusive, royalty-free and perpetual right to use, copy, modify, communicate and make available to the public (including without limitation via the Internet) and distribute, in each case in an original or modified form, the Assigned Contributions as (they) wish.\"\n\nCanonical started Project Harmony \"...to assist organisations which use contribution agreements by providing standardised variable templates with clear and concise explanations...\"\n\nAs of August 2011, Canonical is requesting contributions be licensed under a Harmony Contribution Licence Agreement, rather than the copyright being assigned to Canonical. With the Harmony CLA, \"the contributor gives Canonical a licence to use their contributions. The contributor continues to own the copyright in the contribution, with full rights to re-use, re-distribute, and continue modifying the contributed code, allowing them to also share that contribution with other projects.\"\n\nProjects requiring contributors to sign this agreement include:\n\nKDE uses Free Software Foundation Europe's Fiduciary Licence Agreement of which (FLA-1.2) states in section 3.3:\n\nHowever, it is optional and every contributor is allowed not to assign their copyright to KDE e.V.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1870880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870880", "title": "Court of Honor", "text": "Court of Honor\n\nA court of honor (or court of honour) is an official event constituted to determine various questions of social protocol, breaches of etiquette, and other allegations of breaches of honor, or entitlement to various honors. In English the term is also an architectural term (see Cour d'Honneur).\"\n\nThe court of chivalry was at one time also known as a \"court of honour\". In British law, the court of chivalry was a court held before the Earl Marshal and the Lord High Constable; since the abolition of the office of the Lord High Constable, it has been conducted by the Earl Marshal alone. It was established by a statute 13 Ric. II c.2. This court had jurisdiction to try cases concerning contracts and other matters concerning deeds and acts of war. The court of chivalry also has jurisdiction over disputes regarding heraldry and rights to use coats of arms. The court of chivalry is not a court of record, and as such has no power to enforce its decisions by fine or imprisonment; as such it became relatively disused. It is not obsolete, however, and cases have been brought before the court of chivalry as recently as 1954.\n\nA court of honor can also be a military court to investigate and issue judgments concerning acts or omissions which are considered to be unbecoming to an \"officer and a gentleman\", but which do not rise to the level where they are considered crimes triable under military law. A court of honor is also the name given to a tribunal of noblemen who would decide whether a grievance over a point of honor rose to the level warranting a duel, and if so set rules for its fair conduct.\n\nMany Scouting organizations use the term \"Court of Honor\" to refer to a meeting of Patrol Leaders in the Scout troop to plan activities with their Scout Leaders.\n\nIn the Boy Scouts of America a court of honor is a formal troop ceremony usually held quarterly (and intermittently upon conferment of Eagle Scout rank) where Scouts and their families come together to receive rank advancement, merit badges, and other awards. It is also important for Scouts to participate in a court of honor because it counts towards the Second Class requirement 3a and First Class requirement 3.0. It is not a regular troop meeting.\n\nIn the Scout Association of Japan a formal troop advancement ceremony is held once a year where Scouts receive rank advancement, merit badges, and other awards, and Scouts in the same school year receive the same rank advancement. It is uncommon for the Scouts' family members to attend, as it is a regular troop meeting.\n\nIn the Boy Scouts of the Philippines, a Court of Honor is a formal ceremony for conferment of the Eagle Scout rank medal on a Boy Scout. The National Court of Honor is a unit in the organization which determines and decides on various important conferments for Scouts and Scouters.\n\nIn Scouts South Africa, a court of honor is held every 4 weeks, normally at the beginning of a new month. The Patrol Leaders(PLs) and a Scouter are expected to attend, they are responsible for the majority of decisions regarding troop discipline, patrol management, troop programme and such. The Troop Scouter is the only adult leader regularly attending these meetings, and has the right to veto decisions. The Troop Scouter generally only acts in an advisory role, allowing the Scouts themselves to make important decisions. The Court of Honor may invite other Scouters to hear their input.\n"}
{"id": "33972503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33972503", "title": "Crown-Ikarus 286", "text": "Crown-Ikarus 286\n\nThe Crown-Ikarus 286 is a type of transit bus that was manufactured for the U.S. market from 1980 until 1986, under a joint venture between the Ikarus Body and Coach Works (Ikarus), of Budapest, Hungary, and Crown Coach Corporation from Los Angeles, California in the United States. Loosely based on the Ikarus 280, the Crown-Ikarus 286 is a high-floor articulated bus. \n\nDue to their use in the United States, the Crown-Ikarus buses became the first buses produced by Ikarus equipped with an onboard wheelchair lift.\n\nAfter a number of production problems arose, the Crown-Ikarus 286 ended production in 1986, following the collapse of the joint venture. A total of 243 examples were produced for nine different operators. \n\nIkarus would again jointly produce the Ikarus 280 in North America with Orion Bus Industries as the Orion III.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the era of the \"New Look\" mass-transit buses in the United States and Canada, which had begun in the late 1950s, was coming to a close. The two largest U.S. bus manufacturers, General Motors and Flxible, ended U.S. production of their New Look buses in 1977 and 1978, respectively. By the end of the decade, production would shift from a GM/Flxible near-monopoly to a contested segment, with a number of manufacturers competing for transit operators with new-generation bus designs.\n\nTo diversify its business beyond the fragile school bus industry of the late 1970s, California-based Crown Coach sought to enter transit bus production. While its chief competitor Gillig Corporation began design work on what would become the Gillig Phantom in 1982, Crown did not have the resources on its own to develop its own design from the ground up. In 1979, Crown entered into a partnership with Hungarian bus manufacturer Ikarus Body and Coach Works. \n\nWith an annual production of 13,000 transit vehicles (triple the combined output of all U.S. transit manufacturers), Ikarus was one of the largest bus manufacturers in the world, but had never previously built any vehicles for the U.S. market. In addition to Crown Coach gaining entry into the mass-transit segment, the partnership allowed Hungary to obtain hard currency and eased a trade imbalance between Eastern Europe and the West. \n\nUnder the terms of the joint venture, final assembly of the buses would be done in Crown Coach facilities in Los Angeles. In addition to finishing the vehicles to American standards, the final assembly in California involved most of the interior work, allowing customization of the buses to the needs of each end-user. Alongside various specifications for seating design, this allowed for the inclusion of features such as wheelchair lifts for passengers with disabilities. \n\nSales contracts of the vehicles were managed by Crown Coach, which helped ensure that the work satisfied U.S. federal \"Buy America\" requirements (). All buses manufactured under the Crown-Ikarus name were considered model 286, although different orders carried a seldom-noted numerical suffix (such as 286.02 for Portland TriMet).\n\nThe first order for the Crown-Ikarus was placed in November 1979. In its Budapest factory, Ikarus produced the body shells of its Ikarus 280 articulated transit bus modified for the North American market. The largest change was the overall width of the bodyshell, from a metric-based to the body width that was becoming common in transit buses in North America. After shipment to Crown Coach in Los Angeles, the fabricated body shells were fitted with engines, transmissions and brakes. Other major assemblies included the destination signs and interior. For the first vehicles, the engines and transmissions were shipped to Hungary for installation, but subsequent examples saw the entire powertrain fitted at the Crown Coach factory.\n\nTwo different configurations of the Crown-Ikarus 286 were sold: and lengths, with either two or three entry doors. Aside from five Houston Metro examples fitted in a 61-seat suburban configuration, all versions were fitted with transit-style seats. In its 60-foot configuration, the passenger capacity was 73. \n\nTo save on development costs, the Crown-Ikarus was fitted with the engines of the Crown Supercoach school bus, which was designed for a 20-year service life. The first examples of the Crown-Ikarus 286 used a 290 hp Cummins NHHTC underfloor diesel engine, changed to a 300 hp Cummins NHHTC in later versions. An optional 350 hp Cummins was chosen by the Milwaukee County Transit System. Most vehicles were fitted with an Allison automatic transmission (models HT-747D or 748s). However, a Voith D864.2 automatic transmission was fitted for vehicles operated in Houston, and for five of 40 purchased by Milwaukee. The axles were also U.S.-made. \n\nIn the mid- to late 1980s, TriMet replaced the Cummins engines in its Crown-Ikarus buses with Detroit Diesel DDA 6-71 engines (an engine also used in the Crown Supercoach) in an effort to improve reliability and reduce maintenance costs. \n\nIkarus also hoped to sell a trolleybus version of the 286 in North America through Crown Coach. With this in mind, an Ikarus 280T3 articulated trolleybus was transported to North America, and in 1981–1982 was demonstrated on the Mexico City, San Francisco, and Seattle trolleybus systems. Ultimately, no orders were received, and Crown Coach did not build any trolleybuses.\n\nVarious problems were experienced with the completed buses during their use, including doors malfunctioning and windows coming out. In Portland, Oregon, which had more Crown-Ikarus buses than any other transit system, owner Tri-Met found that its 87 buses needed numerous repairs and modifications, to fix what it considered to be significant defects. The agency worked with the manufacturer to correct many of them, but carried out some of the repairs and modifications itself, sometimes at its own expense. In 1985, when the buses involved were three to four years old, Tri-Met filed a lawsuit against the manufacturers, alleging breach of contract. The suit identified 45 separate defects, including frame cracks, and charged that Crown Coach and Ikarus had been unable or unwilling to correct all of them. Tri-Met officials said the problems and frequent breakdowns of the buses led to there being days when only about 50 of the 87 buses were operational. According to Tri-Met, the issue was compounded by maintenance diagrams that were \"written mostly in Hungarian\". The lawsuit was later postponed, as the parties hoped to settle their differences out of court, and 17 months after the suit was filed, Tri-Met announced that a settlement had been reached. The warranties on Tri-Met's buses, which had originally been for one to two years but been extended, were now extended through 1992, but most other details of the 1987 settlement were not released publicly.\n\nBy 1986, Crown Coach had already ceased taking orders for the Crown-Ikarus 286, and production under the joint venture ended. Ikarus re-entered the U.S. market on its own in 1989 as Ikarus USA, which after a series of reorganizations became North American Bus Industries (NABI) in 1996.\n\nCrown-Ikarus buses were sold new to a total of only nine transit systems, all located in the United States. One additional operator obtained its Crown-Ikarus buses secondhand, though a lease.\n"}
{"id": "40013065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40013065", "title": "Decline of the Glass–Steagall Act", "text": "Decline of the Glass–Steagall Act\n\nThis article is about the decline of the effect of Glass–Steagall: legislation, limits, and loopholes.\n\nThe Glass–Steagall Act was a part of the 1933 Banking Act. It placed restrictions on activities that commercial banks and investment banks (or other securities firms) could do. It effectively separated those activities, so the two types of business could not mix, in order to protect consumer's money from speculative use. The Banking Act of 1935 clarified and otherwise amended Glass–Steagall.\n\nOver time, private firms and their regulators found novel ways to weaken the barriers envisioned in the legislation. Eventually, the protections became very weak.\n\nFrom its start, there were many economists, businessmen, and politicians who did not find the restrictions to be productive, and wished to do away with them altogether. It took about 66 years, but the legislation was eventually completely repealed. Subsequent financial crises have resulted in attempts to revive the legislation, and even make it stronger than originally envisioned.\n\nCommercial banks withdrew from the depressed securities markets of the early 1930s even before the Glass–Steagall prohibitions on securities underwriting and dealing became effective. However, those prohibitions were controversial. A 1934 study of commercial bank affiliate underwriting of securities in the 1920s found such underwriting was not better than the underwriting by firms that were not affiliated with banks. That study disputed Glass–Steagall critics who suggested securities markets had been harmed by prohibiting commercial bank involvement. A 1942 study also found that commercial bank affiliate underwriting was not better (or worse) than nonbank affiliate underwriting, but concluded this meant it was a “myth” commercial bank securities affiliates had taken advantage of bank customers to sell “worthless securities.”\n\nIn 1935 Senator Glass attempted to repeal the Glass–Steagall prohibition on commercial banks underwriting corporate securities. Glass stated Glass–Steagall had unduly damaged securities markets by prohibiting commercial bank underwriting of corporate securities. The first Senate passed version of the Banking Act of 1935 included Glass's revision to Section 16 of the Glass–Steagall Act to permit bank underwriting of corporate securities subject to limitations and regulations.\n\nPresident Roosevelt opposed this revision to Section 16 and wrote Glass that “the old abuses would come back if underwriting were restored in any shape, manner, or form.” In the conference committee that reconciled differences between the House and Senate passed versions of the Banking Act of 1935, Glass's language amending Section 16 was removed.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy’s appointee as Comptroller of the Currency, James J. Saxon, was the next public official to seriously challenge Glass–Steagall’s prohibitions. As the regulator of national banks, Saxon was concerned with the competitive position of commercial banks. In 1950 commercial banks held 52% of the assets of US financial institutions. By 1960 that share had declined to 38%. Saxon wanted to expand the powers of national banks.\n\nIn 1963, the Saxon-led Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued a regulation permitting national banks to offer retail customers “commingled accounts” holding common stocks and other securities. This amounted to permitting banks to offer mutual funds to retail customers. Saxon also issued rulings that national banks could underwrite municipal revenue bonds. Courts ruled that both of these actions violated Glass–Steagall.\n\nIn rejecting bank sales of accounts that functioned like mutual funds, the Supreme Court explained in \"Investment Company Institute v. Camp\" that it would have given “deference” to the OCC's judgment if the OCC had explained how such sales could avoid the conflicts of interest and other “subtle hazards” Glass–Steagall sought to prevent and that could arise when a bank offered a securities product to its retail customers. Courts later applied this aspect of the \"Camp\" ruling to uphold interpretations of Glass–Steagall by federal banking regulators. As in the \"Camp\" case, these interpretations by bank regulators were routinely challenged by the mutual fund industry through the Investment Company Institute or the securities industry through the Securities Industry Association as they sought to prevent competition from commercial banks.\n\nRegulation Q limits on interest rates for time deposits at commercial banks, authorized by the 1933 Banking Act, first became “effective” in 1966 when market interest rates exceeded those limits. This produced the first of several “credit crunches” during the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s as depositors withdrew funds from banks to reinvest at higher market interest rates. When this “disintermediation” limited the ability of banks to meet the borrowing requests of all their corporate customers, some commercial banks helped their “best customers” establish programs to borrow directly from the “capital markets” by issuing commercial paper. Over time, commercial banks were increasingly left with lower credit quality, or more speculative, corporate borrowers that could not borrow directly from the “capital markets.”\n\nEventually, even lower credit quality corporations and (indirectly through “securitization”) consumers were able to borrow from the capital markets as improvements in communication and information technology allowed investors to evaluate and invest in a broader range of borrowers. Banks began to finance residential mortgages through securitization in the late 1970s. During the 1980s banks and other lenders used securitizations to provide “capital markets” funding for a wide range of assets that previously had been financed by bank loans. In losing “their preeminent status as expert intermediaries for the collection, processing, and analysis of information relating to extensions of credit”, banks were increasingly “bypassed” as traditional “depositors” invested in securities that replaced bank loans.\n\nIn 1977 Merrill Lynch introduced a “cash management account” that allowed brokerage customers to write checks on funds held in a money market account or drawn from a “line of credit” Merrill provided. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had ruled that money market funds could “redeem” investor shares at a $1 stable “net asset value” despite daily fluctuations in the value of the securities held by the funds. This allowed money market funds to develop into “near money” as “investors” wrote checks (“redemption orders”) on these accounts much as “depositors” wrote checks on traditional checking accounts provided by commercial banks.\n\nAlso in the 1970s savings and loans, which were not restricted by Glass–Steagall other than Section 21, were permitted to offer “negotiable order of withdrawal accounts” (NOW accounts). As with money market accounts, these accounts functioned much like checking accounts in permitting a depositor to order payments from a “savings account.”\n\nHelen Garten concluded that the “traditional regulation” of commercial banks established by the 1933 Banking Act, including Glass–Steagall, failed when nonbanking firms and the “capital markets” were able to provide replacements for bank loans and deposits, thereby reducing the profitability of commercial banking. Richard Vietor agreed that traditional bank regulation was unable to protect commercial banks from nonbank competition. However, he noted that significant the economic and financial instability began in the mid-1960s. This slowed economic growth and savings, which reduced demand and supply of credit; it also induced financial innovations that undermined commercial banks.\n\nHyman Minsky agreed financial instability had returned in 1966 and had only been constrained in the following 15 years through Federal Reserve Board engineered “credit crunches” to combat inflation followed by “lender of last resort” rescues of asset prices that produced new inflation. Minsky described ever worsening periods of inflation followed by unemployment as the cycle of rescues followed by credit crunches was repeated. Minsky, however, supported traditional banking regulation and advocated further controls of finance to “promote smaller and simpler organizations weighted more toward direct financing.” Writing from a similar “neo-Keynesian perspective,\" Jan Kregel concluded that, after World War II, non-regulated financial companies, supported by regulatory actions, developed means to provide bank products (“liquidity and lending accommodation”) more cheaply than commercial banks through the “capital markets.” Kregel argued this led banking regulators to eliminate Glass–Steagall restrictions to permit banks to “duplicate these structures” using the capital markets “until there was virtually no difference in the activities of FDIC-insured commercial banks and investment banks.”\n\nComptroller Saxon had feared for the competitive viability of commercial banks in the early 1960s. The “capital markets” developments in the 1970s increased the vulnerability of commercial banks to nonbank competitors. As described below, this competition would increase in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1967 the Senate passed the first of several Senate passed bills that would have revised Glass–Steagall Section 16 to permit banks to underwrite municipal revenue bonds. In 1974 the OCC authorized national banks to provide “automatic investment services,” which permitted bank customers to authorize regular withdrawals from a deposit account to purchase identified securities. In 1977 the Federal Reserve Board staff concluded Glass–Steagall permitted banks to privately place commercial paper. In 1978 Bankers Trust began making such placements. As described below, in 1978, the OCC authorized a national bank to privately place securities issued to sell residential mortgages in a securitization\n\nCommercial banks, however, were frustrated with the continuing restrictions imposed by Glass–Steagall and other banking laws. After many of Comptroller Saxon's decisions granting national banks greater powers had been challenged or overturned by courts, commercial banking firms had been able to expand their non-securities activities through the “one bank holding company.” Because the Bank Holding Company Act only limited nonbanking activities of companies that owned two or more commercial banks, “one bank holding companies” could own interests in any type of company other than securities firms covered by Glass–Steagall Section 20. That “loophole” in the Bank Holding Company Act was closed by a 1970 amendment to apply the Act to any company that owned a commercial bank. Commercial banking firm's continuing desire for greater powers received support when Ronald Reagan became President and appointed banking regulators who shared an “attitude towards deregulation of the financial industry.”\n\nIn 1982, under the chairmanship of William Isaac, the FDIC issued a “policy statement” that state chartered non-Federal Reserve member banks could establish subsidiaries to underwrite and deal in securities. Also in 1982 the OCC, under Comptroller C. Todd Conover, approved the mutual fund company Dreyfus Corporation and the retailer Sears establishing “nonbank bank” subsidiaries that were not covered by the Bank Holding Company Act. The Federal Reserve Board, led by Chairman Paul Volcker, asked Congress to overrule both the FDIC's and the OCC's actions through new legislation.\n\nThe FDIC's action confirmed that Glass–Steagall did not restrict affiliations between a state chartered non-Federal Reserve System member bank and securities firms, even when the bank was FDIC insured. State laws differed in how they regulated affiliations between banks and securities firms. In the 1970s, foreign banks had taken advantage of this in establishing branches in states that permitted such affiliations. Although the International Banking Act of 1978 brought newly established foreign bank US branches under Glass–Steagall, foreign banks with existing US branches were “grandfathered” and permitted to retain their existing investments. Through this “loophole” Credit Suisse was able to own a controlling interest in First Boston, a leading US securities firm.\n\nAfter the FDIC's action, commentators worried that large commercial banks would leave the Federal Reserve System (after first converting to a state charter if they were national banks) to free themselves from Glass–Steagall affiliation restrictions, as large commercial banks lobbied states to permit commercial bank investment banking activities.\n\nThe OCC's action relied on a “loophole” in the Bank Holding Company Act (BHCA) that meant a company only became a “bank holding company” supervised by the Federal Reserve Board if it owned a “bank” that made “commercial loans” (i.e., loans to businesses) \"and\" provided “demand deposits” (i.e., checking accounts). A “nonbank bank” could be established to provide checking accounts (but not commercial loans) or commercial loans (but not checking accounts). The company owning the nonbank bank would not be a bank holding company limited to activities “closely related to banking.” This permitted Sears, GE, and other commercial companies to own “nonbank banks.”\n\nGlass–Steagall's affiliation restrictions applied if the nonbank bank was a national bank or otherwise a member of the Federal Reserve System. The OCC's permission for Dreyfus to own a nationally chartered “nonbank bank” was based on the OCC's conclusion that Dreyfus, as a mutual fund company, earned only a small amount of its revenue through underwriting and distributing shares in mutual funds. Two other securities firms, J. & W. Seligman & Co. and Prudential-Bache, established state chartered non-Federal Reserve System member banks to avoid Glass–Steagall restrictions on affiliations between member banks and securities firms.\n\nAlthough Paul Volcker and the Federal Reserve Board sought legislation overruling the FDIC and OCC actions, they agreed bank affiliates should have broader securities powers. They supported a bill sponsored by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Jake Garn (R-UT) that would have amended Glass–Steagall Section 20 to cover all FDIC insured banks and to permit bank affiliates to underwrite and deal in mutual funds, municipal revenue bonds, commercial paper, and mortgage-backed securities. On September 13, 1984, the Senate passed the Garn bill in an 89-5 vote, but the Democratic controlled House did not act on the bill.\n\nIn 1987, however, the Senate (with a new Democratic Party majority) joined with the House in passing the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 (CEBA). Although primarily dealing with the savings and loan crisis, CEBA also established a moratorium to March 1, 1988, on banking regulator actions to approve bank or affiliate securities activities, applied the affiliation restrictions of Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 to all FDIC insured banks during the moratorium, and eliminated the “nonbank bank” loophole for new FDIC insured banks (whether they took demand deposits or made commercial loans) except industrial loan companies. Existing “nonbank banks”, however, were “grandfathered” so that they could continue to operate without becoming subject to BHCA restrictions.\n\nThe CEBA was intended to provide time for Congress (rather than banking regulators) to review and resolve the Glass–Steagall issues of bank securities activities. Senator William Proxmire (D-WI), the new Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, took up this topic in 1987.\n\nWolfgang Reinicke argues that Glass–Steagall “repeal” gained unexpected Congressional support in 1987 because large banks successfully argued that Glass–Steagall prevented US banks from competing internationally. With the argument changed from preserving the profitability of large commercial banks to preserving the “competitiveness” of US banks (and of the US economy), Senator Proxmire reversed his earlier opposition to Glass–Steagall reform. Proxmire sponsored a bill that would have repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 and replaced those prohibitions with a system for regulating (and limiting the amount of) bank affiliate securities activities. He declared Glass–Steagall a “protectionist dinosaur.”\n\nBy 1985 commercial banks provided 26% of short term loans to large businesses compared to 59% in 1974. While banks cited such statistics to illustrate the “decline of commercial banking,” Reinicke argues the most influential factor in Congress favoring Glass–Steagall “repeal” was the decline of US banks in international rankings. In 1960 six of the ten largest banks were US based, by 1980 only two US based banks were in the top ten, and by 1989 none was in the top twenty five.\n\nIn the late 1980s the United Kingdom and Canada ended their historic separations of commercial and investment banking. Glass–Steagall critics scornfully noted only Japanese legislation imposed by Americans during the Occupation of Japan kept the United States from being alone in separating the two activities.\n\nAs noted above, even in the United States seventeen foreign banks were free from this Glass–Steagall restriction because they had established state chartered branches before the International Banking Act of 1978 brought newly established foreign bank US branches under Glass–Steagall. Similarly, because major foreign countries did not separate investment and commercial banking, US commercial banks could underwrite and deal in securities through branches outside the United States. Paul Volcker agreed that, “broadly speaking,” it made no sense that US commercial banks could underwrite securities in Europe but not in the United States.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s scholars published studies arguing that commercial bank affiliate underwriting during the 1920s was no worse, or was better, than underwriting by securities firms not affiliated with banks and that commercial banks were strengthened, not harmed, by securities affiliates. More generally, researchers attacked the idea that “integrated financial services firms” had played a role in creating the Great Depression or the collapse of the US banking system in the 1930s. If it was “debatable” whether Glass–Steagall was justified in the 1930s, it was easier to argue that Glass–Steagall served no legitimate purpose when the distinction between commercial and investment banking activities had been blurred by “market developments” since the 1960s.\n\nAlong with the “nonbank bank” “loophole” from BHCA limitations, in the 1980s the “unitary thrift” “loophole” became prominent as a means for securities and commercial firms to provide banking (or “near banking”) products. The Savings and Loan Holding Company Act (SLHCA) permitted any company to own a single savings and loan. Only companies that owned two or more savings and loan were limited to thrift related businesses. Already in 1973 First Chicago Bank had identified Sears as its real competitor.Citicorp CEO Walter Wriston reached the same conclusion later in the 1970s. By 1982, using the “unitary thrift” and “nonbank bank” “loopholes,” Sears had built the “Sears Financial Network”, which combined “Super NOW” accounts and mortgage loans through a large California-based savings and loan, the Discover Card issued by a “nonbank bank” as a credit card, securities brokerage through Dean Witter Reynolds, home and auto insurance through Allstate, and real estate brokerage through Coldwell Banker. By 1984, however, Walter Wriston concluded “the bank of the future already exists, and it’s called Merrill Lynch.” In 1986 when major bank holding companies threatened to stop operating commercial banks in order to obtain the “competitive advantages” enjoyed by Sears and Merrill Lynch, FDIC Chairman William Seidman warned that could create “chaos.”\n\nIn a 1987 “issue brief” the Congressional Research Service (CRS) summarized “some of” the major arguments\n\nfor preserving Glass–Steagall as:\n\nand against preserving Glass–Steagall as:\n\n\nReflecting the significance of the “international competitiveness” argument, a separate CRS Report stated banks were “losing historical market shares of their major activities to domestic and foreign competitors that are less restricted.”\n\nSeparately, the General Accounting Office (GAO) submitted to a House subcommittee a report reviewing the benefits and risks of “Glass–Steagall repeal.” The report recommended a “phased approach” using a “holding company organizational structure” if Congress chose “repeal.” Noting Glass–Steagall had “already been eroded and the erosion is likely to continue in the future,” the GAO explained “coming to grips with the Glass–Steagall repeal question represents an opportunity to systematically and rationally address changes in the regulatory and legal structure that are needed to better address the realities of the marketplace.” The GAO warned that Congress's failure to act was “potentially dangerous” in permitting a “continuation of the uneven integration of commercial and investment banking activities.”\n\nAs Congress was considering the Proxmire Financial Modernization Act in 1988, the Commission of the European Communities proposed a “Second Banking Directive” that became effective at the beginning of 1993 and provided for the combination of commercial and investment banking throughout the European Economic Community. Whereas United States law sought to isolate banks from securities activities, the Second Directive represented the European Union’s conclusion that securities activities diversified bank risk, strengthening the earnings and stability of banks.\n\nThe Senate passed the Proxmire Financial Modernization Act of 1988 in a 94-2 vote. The House did not pass a similar bill, largely because of opposition from Representative John Dingell (D-MI), chairman of the House Commerce and Energy Committee.\n\nIn April 1987, the Federal Reserve Board had approved the bank holding companies Bankers Trust, Citicorp, and J.P. Morgan & Co. establishing subsidiaries (“Section 20 affiliates”) to underwrite and deal in residential mortgage-backed securities, municipal revenue bonds, and commercial paper. Glass–Steagall's Section 20 prohibited a bank from affiliating with a firm “primarily engaged” in underwriting and dealing in securities. The Board decided this meant Section 20 permitted a bank affiliate to earn 5% of its revenue from underwriting and dealing in these types of securities that were not “bank-eligible securities,” subject to various restrictions including “firewalls” to separate a commercial bank from its Section 20 affiliate. Three months later the Board added “asset-backed securities” backed by pools of credit card accounts or other “consumer finance assets” to the list of “bank-ineligible securities” a Section 20 affiliate could underwrite. Bank holding companies, not commercial banks directly, owned these Section 20 affiliates.\n\nIn 1978 the Federal Reserve Board had authorized bank holding companies to establish securities affiliates that underwrote and dealt in government securities and other bank-eligible securities. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker supported Congress amending Glass–Steagall to permit such affiliates to underwrite and deal in a limited amount of bank-ineligible securities, but not corporate securities. In 1987, Volcker specifically noted (and approved the result) that this would mean only banks with large government securities activities would be able to have affiliates that would underwrite and deal in a significant volume of “bank-ineligible securities.” A Section 20 affiliate with a large volume of government securities related revenue would be able to earn a significant amount of “bank-ineligible” revenue without having more than 5% of its overall revenue come from bank-ineligible activities. Volcker disagreed, however, that the Board had authority to permit this without an amendment to the Glass–Steagall Act. Citing that concern, Volcker and fellow Federal Reserve Board Governor Wayne Angell dissented from the Section 20 affiliate orders.\n\nSenator Proxmire criticized the Federal Reserve Board's Section 20 affiliate orders as defying Congressional control of Glass–Steagall. The Board's orders meant Glass–Steagall did not prevent commercial banks from affiliating with securities firms underwriting and dealing in “bank-ineligible securities,” so long as the activity was “executed in a separate subsidiary and limited in amount.”\n\nAfter the Proxmire Financial Modernization Act of 1988 failed to become law, Senator Proxmire and a group of fellow Democratic senior House Banking Committee members (including future Committee Ranking Member John LaFalce (D-NY) and future Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA)) wrote the Federal Reserve Board recommending it expand the underwriting powers of Section 20 affiliates. Expressing sentiments that Representative James A. Leach (R-IA) repeated in 1996, Proxmire declared “Congress has failed to do the job” and “[n]ow it’s time for the Fed to step in.”\n\nFollowing Senator Proxmire's letter, in 1989 the Federal Reserve Board approved Section 20 affiliates underwriting corporate debt securities and increased from 5% to 10% the percentage of its revenue a Section 20 affiliate could earn from “bank-ineligible” activities. In 1990 the Board approved J.P. Morgan & Co. underwriting corporate stock. With the commercial (J.P. Morgan & Co.) and investment (Morgan Stanley) banking arms of the old “House of Morgan” both underwriting corporate bonds and stocks, Wolfgang Reinicke concluded the Federal Reserve Board order meant both firms now competed in “a single financial market offering both commercial and investment banking products,” which “Glass–Steagall sought to rule out.” Reinicke described this as “de facto repeal of Glass–Steagall.”\n\nNo Federal Reserve Board order was necessary for Morgan Stanley to enter that “single financial market.” Glass–Steagall only prohibited investment banks from taking deposits, not from making commercial loans, and the prohibition on taking deposits had “been circumvented by the development of deposit equivalents”, such as the money market fund. Glass–Steagall also did not prevent investment banks from affiliating with nonbank banks or savings and loans. Citing this competitive “inequality,” before the Federal Reserve Board approved any Section 20 affiliates, four large bank holding companies that eventually received Section 20 affiliate approvals (Chase, J.P. Morgan, Citicorp, and Bankers Trust) had threatened to give up their banking charters if they were not given greater securities powers. Following the Federal Reserve Board's approvals of Section 20 affiliates a commentator concluded that the Glass–Steagall “wall” between commercial banking and “the securities and investment business” was “porous” for commercial banks and “nonexistent to investment bankers and other nonbank entities.”\n\nAlan Greenspan had replaced Paul Volcker as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board when Proxmire sent his 1988 letter recommending the Federal Reserve Board expand the underwriting powers of Section 20 affiliates. Greenspan testified to Congress in December 1987, that the Federal Reserve Board supported Glass–Steagall repeal. Although Paul Volcker “had changed his position” on Glass–Steagall reform “considerably” during the 1980s, he was still “considered a conservative among the board members.” With Greenspan as Chairman, the Federal Reserve Board “spoke with one voice” in joining the FDIC and OCC in calling for Glass–Steagall repeal.\n\nBy 1987 Glass–Steagall “repeal” had come to mean repeal of Sections 20 and 32. The Federal Reserve Board supported “repeal” of Glass–Steagall “insofar as it prevents bank holding companies from being affiliated with firms engaged in securities underwriting and dealing activities.” The Board did not propose repeal of Glass Steagall Section 16 or 21. Bank holding companies, through separately capitalized subsidiaries, not commercial banks themselves directly, would exercise the new securities powers.\n\nBanks and bank holding companies had already gained important regulatory approvals for securities activities before Paul Volcker retired as Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board on August 11, 1987. Aside from the Board's authorizations for Section 20 affiliates and for bank private placements of commercial paper, by 1987 federal banking regulators had authorized banks or their affiliates to (1) sponsor closed end investment companies, (2) sponsor mutual funds sold to customers in individual retirement accounts, (3) provide customers full service brokerage (i.e., advice and brokerage), and (4) sell bank assets through “securitizations.”\n\nIn 1982 E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and a close Volcker colleague, published an influential essay titled “Are banks special?” in which he argued banks should be subject to special restrictions on affiliations because they enjoy special benefits (e.g., deposit insurance and Federal Reserve Bank loan facilities) and have special responsibilities (e.g., operating the payment system and influencing the money supply). The essay rejected the argument that it is “futile and unnecessary” to distinguish among the various types of companies in the “financial services industry.”\n\nWhile Paul Volcker's January 1984, testimony to Congress repeated that banks are “special” in performing “a unique and critical role in the financial system and the economy,” he still testified in support of bank affiliates underwriting securities other than corporate bonds. In its 1986 Annual Report the Volcker led Federal Reserve Board recommended that Congress permit bank holding companies to underwrite municipal revenue bonds, mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper, and mutual funds and that Congress “undertake hearings or other studies in the area of corporate underwriting.” As described above, in the 1930s Glass–Steagall advocates had alleged that bank affiliate underwriting of corporate bonds created “conflicts of interest.”\n\nIn early 1987 E. Gerald Corrigan, then president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, recommended a legislative “overhaul” to permit “financial holding companies” that would “in time” provide banking, securities, and insurance services (as authorized by the GLBA 12 years later). In 1990 Corrigan testified to Congress that he rejected the “status quo” and recommended allowing banks into the “securities business” through financial service holding companies.\n\nIn 1991 Paul Volcker testified to Congress in support of the Bush Administration proposal to repeal Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32. Volcker rejected the Bush Administration proposal to permit affiliations between banks and commercial firms (i.e., non-financial firms) and added that legislation to allow banks greater insurance powers “could be put off until a later date.”\n\nPaul Volcker gave his 1991 testimony as Congress considered repealing Glass–Steagall sections 20 and 32 as part of a broader Bush Administration proposal to reform financial regulation.\nIn reaction to “market developments” and regulatory and judicial decisions that had “homogenized” commercial and investment banking, Representative Edward J. Markey (D-MA) had written a 1990 article arguing “Congress must amend Glass–Steagall.” As chairman of a subcommittee of the House Commerce and Energy Committee, Markey had joined with Committee Chairman Dingell in opposing the 1988 Proxmire Financial Modernization Act. In 1990, however, Markey stated Glass–Steagall had “lost much of its effectiveness” through market, regulatory, and judicial developments that were “tantamount to an ill-coordinated, incremental repeal” of Glass–Steagall. To correct this “disharmony” Markey proposed replacing Glass–Steagall's “prohibitions” with “regulation.”\nAfter the House Banking Committee approved a bill repealing Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32, Representative Dingell again stopped House action. He reached agreement with Banking Committee Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez (D-TX) to insert into the bill “firewalls” that banks claimed would prevent real competition between banks and securities firms. The banking industry strongly opposed the bill in that form, and the House rejected it. The House debate revealed that Congress might agree on repealing Sections 20 and 32 while being divided on how bank affiliations with securities firms should be regulated.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, as Congress considered whether to “repeal” Glass–Steagall, commercial banks and their affiliates engaged in activities that commentators later linked to the financial crisis of 2007–2008.\n\nIn 1978 Bank of America issued the first residential mortgage-backed security that securitized residential mortgages not guaranteed by a government-sponsored enterprise (“private label RMBS”). Also in 1978, the OCC approved a national bank, such as Bank of America, issuing pass-through certificates representing interests in residential mortgages and distributing such mortgage-backed securities to investors in a private placement. In 1987 the OCC ruled that Security Pacific Bank could “sell” assets through “securitizations” that transferred “cash flows” from those assets to investors and also distribute in a registered public offering the residential mortgage-backed securities issued in the securitization. This permitted commercial banks to acquire assets for “sale” through securitizations under what later became termed the “originate to distribute” model of banking.\n\nThe OCC ruled that a national bank's power to sell its assets meant a national bank could sell a pool of assets in a securitization, and even distribute the securities that represented the sale, as part of the “business of banking.” This meant national banks could underwrite and distribute securities representing such sales, even though Glass–Steagall would generally prohibit a national bank underwriting or distributing non-governmental securities (i.e., non-“bank-eligible” securities). The federal courts upheld the OCC's approval of Security Pacific's securitization activities, with the Supreme Court refusing in 1990 to review a 1989 Second Circuit decision sustaining the OCC's action. In arguing that the GLBA's “repeal” of Glass–Steagall played no role in the financial crisis of 2007–2008, Melanie Fein notes courts had confirmed by 1990 the power of banks to securitize their assets under Glass–Steagall.\n\nThe Second Circuit stated banks had been securitizing their assets for “ten years” before the OCC's 1987 approval of Security Pacific's securitization. As noted above, the OCC had approved such activity in 1978. Jan Kregel argues that the OCC's interpretation of the “incidental powers” of national banks “ultimately eviscerated Glass–Steagall.”\n\nContinental Illinois Bank is often credited with issuing the first collateralized debt obligation (CDO) when, in 1987, it issued securities representing interests in a pool of “leveraged loans.”\n\nBy the late 1980s Citibank had become a major provider of “subprime” mortgages and credit cards. Arthur Wilmarth argued that the ability to securitize such credits encouraged banks to extend more “subprime” credit. Wilmarth reported that during the 1990s credit card loans increased at a faster pace for lower-income households than higher-income households and that subprime mortgage loan volume quadrupled from 1993–99, before the GLBA became effective in 2000. In 1995 Wilmarth noted that commercial bank mortgage lenders differed from nonbank lenders in retaining “a significant portion of their mortgage loans” rather than securitizing the entire exposure. Wilmarth also shared the bank regulator concern that commercial banks sold their “best assets” in securitizations and retained their riskiest assets.\n\nIn the early 1980s commercial banks established asset backed commercial paper conduits (ABCP conduits) to finance corporate customer receivables. The ABCP conduit purchased receivables from the bank customer and issued asset-backed commercial paper to finance that purchase. The bank “advising” the ABCP conduit provided loan commitments and “credit enhancements” that supported repayment of the commercial paper. Because the ABCP conduit was owned by a third party unrelated to the bank, it was not an affiliate of the bank. Through ABCP conduits banks could earn “fee income” and meet “customers’ needs for credit” without “the need to maintain the amount of capital that would be required if loans were extended directly” to those customers.\n\nBy the late 1980s Citibank had established ABCP conduits to buy securities. Such conduits became known as structured investment vehicles (SIVs). The SIV's “arbitrage” opportunity was to earn the difference between the interest earned on the securities it purchased and the interest it paid on the ABCP and other securities it issued to fund those purchases.\n\nIn the early 1980s commercial banks began entering into interest rate and currency exchange “swaps” with customers. This “over-the-counter derivatives” market grew dramatically throughout the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nIn 1996 the OCC issued “guidelines” for national bank use of “credit default swaps” and other “credit derivatives.” Banks entered into “credit default swaps” to protect against defaults on loans. Banks later entered into such swaps to protect against defaults on securities. Banks acted both as “dealers” in providing such protection (or speculative “exposure”) to customers and as “hedgers” or “speculators” to cover (or create) their own exposures to such risks.\n\nCommercial banks became the largest dealers in swaps and other over-the-counter derivatives. Banking regulators ruled that swaps (including credit default swaps) were part of the “business of banking,” not “securities” under the Glass–Steagall Act.\n\nCommercial banks entered into swaps that replicated part or all of the economics of actual securities. Regulators eventually ruled banks could even buy and sell equity securities to “hedge” this activity. Jan Kregel argues the OCC's approval of bank derivatives activities under bank “incidental powers” constituted a “complete reversal of the original intention of preventing banks from dealing in securities on their own account.”\n\nOn January 4, 1995, the new Chairman of the House Banking Committee, Representative James A. Leach (R-IA), introduced a bill to repeal Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32. After being confirmed as Treasury Secretary, Robert Rubin announced on February 28, 1995, that the Clinton Administration supported such Glass–Steagall repeal. Repeating themes from the 1980s, Leach stated Glass–Steagall was “out of synch with reality” and Rubin argued “it is now time for the laws to reflect changes in the world’s financial system.”\n\nLeach and Rubin expressed a widely shared view that Glass–Steagall was “obsolete” or “outdated.” As described above, Senator Proxmire and Representative Markey (despite their long-time support for Glass–Steagall) had earlier expressed the same conclusion. With his reputation for being “conservative” on expanded bank activities, former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker remained an influential commentator on legislative proposals to permit such activities. Volcker continued to testify to Congress in opposition to permitting banks to affiliate with commercial companies and in favor of repealing Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 as part of “rationalizing” bank involvement in securities markets. Supporting the Leach and Rubin arguments, Volcker testified that Congressional inaction had forced banking regulators and the courts to play “catch-up” with market developments by “sometimes stretching established interpretations of law beyond recognition.” In 1997 Volcker testified this meant the “Glass–Steagall separation of commercial and investment banking is now almost gone” and that this “accommodation and adaptation has been necessary and desirable.” He stated, however, that the “ad hoc approach” had created “uneven results” that created “almost endless squabbling in the courts” and an “increasingly advantageous position competitively” for “some sectors of the financial service industry and particular institutions.” Similar to the GAO in 1988 and Representative Markey in 1990 Volcker asked that Congress “provide clear and decisive leadership that reflects not parochial pleadings but the national interest.”\n\nReflecting the regulatory developments Volcker noted, the commercial and investment banking industries largely reversed their traditional Glass–Steagall positions. Throughout the 1990s (and particularly in 1996), commercial banking firms became content with the regulatory situation Volcker described. They feared “financial modernization” legislation might bring an unwelcome change. Securities firms came to view Glass–Steagall more as a barrier to expanding their own commercial banking activities than as protection from commercial bank competition. The securities industry became an advocate for “financial modernization” that would open a “two-way street” for securities firms to enter commercial banking.\n\nWhile the need to create a legal framework for existing bank securities activities became a dominant theme for the “financial modernization” legislation supported by Leach, Rubin, Volcker, and others, after the GLBA repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 in 1999, commentators identified four main arguments for repeal: (1) increased economies of scale and scope, (2) reduced risk through diversification of activities, (3) greater convenience and lower cost for consumers, and (4) improved ability of U.S. financial firms to compete with foreign firms.\n\nBy 1995, however, some of these concerns (which had been identified by the Congressional Research Service in 1987) seemed less important. As Japanese banks declined and U.S.-based banks were more profitable, “international competitiveness” did not seem to be a pressing issue. International rankings of banks by size also seemed less important when, as Alan Greenspan later noted, “Federal Reserve research had been unable to find economies of scale in banking beyond a modest size.” Still, advocates of “financial modernization” continued to point to the combination of commercial and investment banking in nearly all other countries as an argument for “modernization”, including Glass–Steagall “repeal.”\n\nSimilarly, the failure of the Sears Financial Network and other nonbank “financial supermarkets” that had seemed to threaten commercial banks in the 1980s undermined the argument that financial conglomerates would be more efficient than “specialized” financial firms. Critics questioned the “diversification benefits” of combining commercial and investment banking activities. Some questioned whether the higher variability of returns in investment banking would stabilize commercial banking firms through “negative correlation” (i.e., cyclical downturns in commercial and investment banking occurring at different times) or instead increase the probability of the overall banking firm failing. Others questioned whether any theoretical benefits in holding a passive “investment portfolio” combining commercial and investment banking would be lost in managing the actual combination of such activities. Critics also argued that specialized, highly competitive commercial and investment banking firms were more efficient in competitive global markets.\n\nStarting in the late 1980s, John H. Boyd, a staff member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, consistently questioned the value of size and product diversification in banking. In 1999, as Congress was considering legislation that became the GLBA, he published an essay arguing that the “moral hazard” created by deposit insurance, too big to fail (TBTF) considerations, and other governmental support for banking should be resolved before commercial banking firms could be given “universal banking” powers. Although Boyd's 1999 essay was directed at “universal banking” that permitted commercial banks to own equity interests in non-financial firms (i.e., “commercial firms”), the essay was interpreted more broadly to mean that “expanding bank powers, by, for example, allowing nonbank firms to affiliate with banks, prior to undertaking reforms limiting TBTF-like coverage for uninsured bank creditors is putting the ‘cart before the horse.’”\n\nDespite these arguments, advocates of “financial modernization” predicted consumers and businesses would enjoy cost savings and greater convenience in receiving financial services from integrated “financial services firms.”\n\nAfter the GLBA repealed Sections 20 and 32, commentators also noted the importance of scholarly attacks on the historic justifications for Glass–Steagall as supporting repeal efforts. Throughout the 1990s, scholars continued to produce empirical studies concluding that commercial bank affiliate underwriting before Glass–Steagall had not demonstrated the “conflicts of interest” and other defects claimed by Glass–Steagall proponents. By the late 1990s a “remarkably broad academic consensus” existed that Glass–Steagall had been “thoroughly discredited.”\n\nAlthough he rejected this scholarship, Martin Mayer wrote in 1997 that since the late 1980s it had been “clear” that continuing the Glass–Steagall prohibitions was only “permitting a handful of large investment houses and hedge funds to charge monopoly rents for their services without protecting corporate America, investors, or the banks.”Hyman Minsky, who disputed the benefits of “universal banking,” wrote in 1995 testimony prepared for Congress that “repeal of the Glass–Steagall Act, in itself, would neither benefit nor harm the economy of the United States to any significant extent.” In 1974 Mayer had quoted Minsky as stating a 1971 presidential commission (the “Hunt Commission”) was repeating the errors of history when it proposed relaxing Glass–Steagall and other legislation from the 1930s.\n\nWith banking commentators such as Mayer and Minsky no longer opposing Glass–Steagall repeal, consumer and community development advocates became the most prominent critics of repeal and of financial “modernization” in general. Helen Garten argued that bank regulation became dominated by “consumer” issues, which produced “a largely unregulated, sophisticated wholesale market and a highly regulated, retail consumer market.” In the 1980s Representative Fernand St. Germain (D-RI), as chairman of the House Banking Committee, sought to tie any Glass–Steagall reform to requirements for free or reduced cost banking services for the elderly and poor. Democratic Representatives and Senators made similar appeals in the 1990s. During Congressional hearings to consider the various Leach bills to repeal Sections 20 and 32, consumer and community development advocates warned against the concentration of “economic power” that would result from permitting “financial conglomerates” and argued that any repeal of Sections 20 and 32 should mandate greater consumer protections, particularly free or low cost consumer services, and greater community reinvestment requirements.\n\nBy 1995 the ability of banks to sell insurance was more controversial than Glass–Steagall “repeal.” Representative Leach tried to avoid conflict with the insurance industry by producing a limited “modernization” bill that repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32, but did not change the regulation of bank insurance activities. Leach's efforts to separate insurance from securities powers failed when the insurance agent lobby insisted any banking law reform include limits on bank sales of insurance.\n\nSimilar to Senator Proxmire in 1988, Representative Leach responded to the House's inaction on his Glass–Steagall “repeal” bill by writing the Federal Reserve Board in June 1996 encouraging it to increase the limit on Section 20 affiliate bank-ineligible revenue. When the Federal Reserve Board increased the limit to 25% in December 1996, the Board noted the Securities Industry Association (SIA) had complained this would mean even the largest Wall Street securities firms could affiliate with commercial banks.\n\nThe SIA's prediction proved accurate two years later when the Federal Reserve Board applied the 25% bank-ineligible revenue test in approving Salomon Smith Barney (SSB) becoming an affiliate of Citibank through the merger of Travelers and Citicorp to form the Citigroup bank holding company. The Board noted that, although SSB was one of the largest US securities firms, less than 25% of its revenue was “bank-ineligible.” Citigroup could only continue to own the Travelers insurance underwriting business for two (or, with Board approval, five) years unless the Bank Holding Company Act was amended (as it was through the GLBA) to permit affiliations between banks and underwriters of property, casualty, and life insurance. Citigroup's ownership of SSB, however, was permitted without any law change under the Federal Reserve Board's existing Section 20 affiliate rules.\n\nIn 2003, Charles Geisst, a Glass–Steagall supporter, told Frontline the Federal Reserve Board's Section 20 orders meant the Federal Reserve “got rid of the Glass–Steagall Act.” Former Federal Reserve Board Vice-Chairman Alan Blinder agreed the 1996 action increasing “bank-ineligible” revenue limits was “tacit repeal” of Glass–Steagall, but argued “that the market had practically repealed Glass–Steagall, anyway.”\n\nShortly after approving the merger of Citicorp and Travelers, the Federal Reserve Board announced its intention to eliminate the 28 “firewalls” that required separation of Section 20 affiliates from their affiliated bank and to replace them with “operating standards” based on 8 of the firewalls. The change permitted banks to lend to fund purchases of, and otherwise provide credit support to, securities underwritten by their Section 20 affiliates. This left Federal Reserve Act Sections 23A (which originated in the 1933 Banking Act and regulated extensions of credit between a bank and any nonbank affiliate) and 23B (which required all transactions between a bank and its nonbank affiliates to be on “arms-length” market terms) as the primary restrictions on banks providing credit to Section 20 affiliates or to securities underwritten by those affiliates. Sections 23A and B remained the primary restrictions on commercial banks extending credit to securities affiliates, or to securities underwritten by such affiliates, after the GLBA repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32.\n\nIn 1997 Representative Leach again sponsored a bill to repeal Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32. At first the main controversy was whether to permit limited affiliations between commercial firms and commercial banks. Securities firms (and other financial services firms) complained that unless they could retain their affiliations with commercial firms (which the Bank Holding Company Act forbid for a commercial bank), they would not be able to compete equally with commercial banks. The Clinton Administration proposed that Congress either permit a small “basket” of commercial revenue for bank holding companies or that it retain the “unitary thrift loophole” that permitted a commercial firm to own a single savings and loan. Representative Leach, House Banking Committee Ranking Member Henry Gonzalez (D-TX), and former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker opposed such commercial affiliations.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1997 Congressional Quarterly reported Senate Banking Committee Chairman Al D’Amato (R-NY) rejected Treasury Department pressure to produce a financial modernization bill because banking firms (such as Citicorp) were satisfied with the competitive advantages they had received from regulatory actions and were not really interested in legislative reforms. Reflecting the process Paul Volcker had described, as financial reform legislation was considered throughout 1997 and early 1998, Congressional Quarterly reported how different interests groups blocked legislation and sought regulatory advantages.\n\nThe “compromise bill” the House Republican leadership sought to bring to a vote in March 1998, was opposed by the commercial banking industry as favoring the securities and insurance industries. The House Republican leadership withdrew the bill in response to the banking industry opposition, but vowed to bring it back when Congress returned from recess. Commentators describe the April 6, 1998, merger announcement between Travelers and Citicorp as the catalyst for the House passing that bill by a single vote (214-213) on May 13, 1998. Citicorp, which had opposed the bill in March, changed its position to support the bill along with the few other large commercial banking firms that had supported it in March for improving their ability to compete with “foreign banks.”\n\nThe Clinton Administration issued a veto threat for the House passed bill, in part because the bill would eliminate “the longstanding right of unitary thrift holding companies to engage in any lawful business,” but primarily because the bill required national banks to conduct expanded activities through holding company subsidiaries rather than the bank “operating subsidiaries” authorized by the OCC in 1996.\n\nOn September 11, 1998, the Senate Banking Committee approved a bipartisan bill with unanimous Democratic member support that, like the House-passed bill, would have repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32. The bill was blocked from Senate consideration by the Committee's two dissenting members (Phil Gramm (R-TX) and Richard Shelby (R-AL)), who argued it expanded the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Four Democratic senators (Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Russell Feingold (D-WI), Barbara Mikulski (D-MD), and Paul Wellstone (D-MN)) stated they opposed the bill for its repeal of Sections 20 and 32.\n\nIn 1999 the main issues confronting the new Leach bill to repeal Sections 20 and 32 were (1) whether bank subsidiaries (“operating subsidiaries”) or only nonbank owned affiliates could exercise new securities and other powers and (2) how the CRA would apply to the new “financial holding companies” that would have such expanded powers. The Clinton Administration agreed with Representative Leach in supporting “the continued separation of banking and commerce.”\n\nThe Senate Banking Committee approved in a straight party line 11-9 vote a bill (S. 900) sponsored by Senator Gramm that would have repealed Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 and that did not contain the CRA provisions in the Committee's 1998 bill. The nine dissenting Democratic Senators, along with Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle(D-SD), proposed as an alternative (S. 753) the text of the 1998 Committee bill with its CRA provisions and the repeal of Sections 20 and 32, modified to provide greater permission for “operating subsidiaries” as requested by the Treasury Department. Through a partisan 54-44 vote on May 6, 1999 (with Senator Fritz Hollings (D-SC) providing the only Democratic Senator vote in support), the Senate passed S. 900. The day before, Senate Republicans defeated (in a 54-43 vote) a Democratic sponsored amendment to S. 900 that would have substituted the text of S. 753 (also providing for the repeal of Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32).\n\nOn July 1, 1999, the House of Representatives passed (in a bipartisan 343-86 vote) a bill (H.R. 10) that repealed Sections 20 and 32. The Clinton Administration issued a statement supporting H.R. 10 because (unlike the Senate passed S. 900) it accepted the bill's CRA and operating subsidiary provisions.\n\nOn October 13, 1999, the Federal Reserve and Treasury Department agreed that direct subsidiaries of national banks (“financial subsidiaries”) could conduct securities activities, but that bank holding companies would need to engage in merchant banking, insurance, and real estate development activities through holding company, not bank, subsidiaries. On October 22, 1999, Senator Gramm and the Clinton Administration agreed a bank holding company could only become a “financial holding company” (and thereby enjoy the new authority to affiliate with insurance and securities firms) if all its bank subsidiaries had at least a “satisfactory” CRA rating.\n\nAfter these compromises, a joint Senate and House Conference Committee reported out a final version of S. 900 that was passed on November 4, 1999, by the House in a vote of 362-57 and by the Senate in a vote of 90-8. President Clinton signed the bill into law on November 12, 1999, as the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (GLBA).\n\nThe GLBA repealed Sections 20 and 32 of the Glass–Steagall Act, not Sections 16 and 21. The GLBA also amended Section 16 to permit “well capitalized” commercial banks to underwrite municipal revenue bonds (i.e., non-general obligation bonds), as first approved by the Senate in 1967. Otherwise, Sections 16 and 21 remained in effect regulating the direct securities activities of banks and prohibiting securities firms from taking deposits.\n\nAfter March 11, 2000, bank holding companies could expand their securities and insurance activities by becoming “financial holding companies.”\n\nPlease see the main article, , which has sections for the following:\n\nThe above article also contains information on proposed reenactment, or alternative proposals that will have the same effect or a partial reinstatement effect.\n\n\nSee also the References list (citations) in the main article, Glass–Steagall_Act.\n"}
{"id": "20125128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20125128", "title": "Dependent and Disability Pension Act", "text": "Dependent and Disability Pension Act\n\nThe Dependent and Disability Pension Act was passed by the United States Congress (26 Stat. 182) and signed into law by President Benjamin Harrison on June 27, 1890. The act provided pensions for all veterans who had served at least ninety days in the Union military or naval forces, were honorably discharged from service and were unable to perform manual labor, regardless of their financial situation or when the disability was suffered. The bill was a source of contentious debate and only passed after Grover Cleveland had vetoed a previous version in 1887.\n\nThe issue of pensions for Civil War veterans had been discussed since the 1860s. In 1862, a basic system was established which granted pensions to soldiers who could provide proof of time spent in the military and a disability incurred while in service. Under this system, pension money could be collected from the date of discharge if claims were filed within one year of that date. However, if claims were filed past this date, receipt of pension payment began on the date of application.\n\nThis last issue was addressed in the Arrears of Pension Act of 1879, which allowed all Union veterans to reapply for pension and receive back payments to the date of their discharge, regardless of when they may have previously applied. This legislation did not change the requirement that disabilities be service-related but was nevertheless a very expensive bill that set the stage for the larger fight to come. Veterans could now receive large sums of money for several years of \"missed\" pension payments. This resulted in a flood of applications and a large increase in pension expenditures for the federal government.\n\nIt was in part the Arrears Act that politically reinvigorated the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR), an organization consisting mostly of Union veterans. With the political assistance of the Republican Party, which opposed the Democratic Party on the issue of pensions, the GAR became much more active in the call for liberal pension legislation following passage of the Arrears Act.\n\nProposals favored by the GAR were generally either service pension plans or disability pension plans. Service plans included pensions for any Union veteran, given that he served some minimal term in the armed forces. Disability plans more closely represented the final bill passed in 1890 and included pensions for any veteran incapacitated by a disability, regardless of how it was sustained.\n\nThe first comprehensive pension disability bill was put together in 1887. This bill was almost identical to the bill to be passed in 1890 in that it granted pensions to all Union veterans suffering from a disability, regardless of its origin. However, it was distinct from the 1890 bill in two ways. First, it awarded all eligible veterans a $12 monthly pension. This differed from the Dependent and Disability Act, which gave pensions worth between $6 and $12 depending on the severity of the disability in question. Second, it required applicants to prove that they were financially dependent on another source, a feature that was absent from the final version of the bill passed in 1890.\n\nAlthough many lawmakers expected Cleveland to sign the bill, he instead vetoed it on February 11, infuriating the GAR and ensuring that pensions would be a central issue in the 1888 election. Cleveland’s primary objections to the bill were that it would be extremely costly, that determining the extent to which applicants were dependent on others would be too difficult, that the pension was ungraded and that the system would be abused by fraud. The bill returned to the House but did not garner enough votes to override the President’s veto.\n\nWhen the 1888 election rolled around, the GAR was at the peak of its political influence and, refusing to back down, carried the fight into the 1888 election. The Republican Party nominated Civil War veteran Benjamin Harrison to run against the incumbent Cleveland, promising to push for more extensive pensions and winning the support of the GAR in the process. Cleveland won the popular vote but Harrison won the crucial swing states of Indiana and New York, which contained 38,000 and 45,000 veterans receiving pensions respectively. The Republican Party’s pension rhetoric may have proved indispensable in these two states; Harrison captured them by just 2,300 and 13,000 votes respectively.\n\nFollowing his inauguration, Harrison reorganized the Pension Bureau and appointed James Tanner as the new commissioner of pensions. Although there was widespread corruption under Tanner and his successor Green Raum, Congress continued moving toward legislation aimed at expanding the federal pension program. Harrison pushed for a disability bill, which ultimately passed without a single vote from a Southern congressman. Under the final form of the law, any disabled Union veteran who had served at least ninety days was eligible to receive a pension, regardless of whether or not his disability was incurred in service. The final version of the act also allowed for the collection of pensions by widows of veterans and for children under the age of 16.\n\nThe Disability and Dependent Pension Act was, according to the GAR national pension committee, “the most liberal pension measure ever passed by any legislative body in the world.” It resulted in an enormous spike in federal expenditures on pensions. In 1890, just 537,944 veterans were receiving pensions. By 1893, that number had already almost doubled to 966,012. In 1889, the federal government spent $89,000,000 on these pensions, a figure that jumped to $159,000,000 by 1893. By 1894, 37% of the government budget was set aside for pension payments.\n\nAs the “largest single appropriation ever made for a government expenditure” the act paved the way for future government pension spending. It would take another step in 1904 when an Executive Order was issued by Theodore Roosevelt declaring all veterans over the age of 62 to be eligible for a pension, effectively making old age a disability.\n"}
{"id": "4411561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411561", "title": "Diplomatic law", "text": "Diplomatic law\n\nDiplomatic law is that area of international law that governs permanent and temporary diplomatic missions. A fundamental concept of diplomatic law is that of diplomatic immunity, which derives from state immunity.\n\nKey elements of diplomatic law are the immunity of diplomatic staff, the inviolability of the diplomatic mission and its grounds, and the security of diplomatic correspondence and diplomatic bags. Famous cases involving the breaking of diplomatic laws includes the Iran hostage crisis in 1979, the shooting of a British police woman from the Libyan Embassy in London in 1984, and the discovery of a former Nigerian Minister in a diplomatic crate at Stansted airport in 1984.\n\nIt is also an accepted principle of customary international law and is recognised between countries as a matter of practicality. Diplomatic law is often strictly adhered to by states because it works on reciprocity. For example, if a country expels diplomats from another country, then its diplomats would most likely be expelled from the other country.\n\nFor most of history diplomatic law has mostly been customary. However, early codifications of diplomatic law include the British Diplomatic Privileges Act 1708. An important treaty with regards to diplomatic law is the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. Questions not expressly regulated by the Convention continue to be governed by the rules of customary international law.\n\nThe most fundamental rule of diplomatic law is that the person of a diplomatic agent is inviolable. Diplomats may not be detained or arrested, and enjoy complete immunity from criminal prosecution in the receiving state, although there is no immunity from the jurisdiction of the sending state.\n\nThe only remedy the host state has in the face of offences alleged to have been committed by a diplomat is to declare him or her \"persona non grata\", which typically means that the diplomat must leave the territory of the state. In 1999, for example, an attaché of the Russian Embassy in Washington DC was declared \"persona non grata\" for suspected \"bugging\" of the State Department.\n\nThe \"UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, Including Diplomatic Agents\" was adopted in 1973. It provides that states parties must make attacks upon diplomats a crime in internal law, and obliges them to extradite or prosecute offenders. However, in exceptional cases, a diplomat may be arrested or detained on the basis of self-defence or in the interests of protecting human life.\n\nThe private residence, papers, correspondence and property of diplomats are also inviolable. In general, diplomats are immune from civil and administrative jurisdiction of the state in which they are serving, although there are a number of important exceptions.\n\nAlthough it is unusual, the sending state may expressly waive the immunity from jurisdiction of diplomatic agents and others possessing immunity.\n\nIt is an absolute rule that the premises of the mission are inviolable and agents of the receiving state cannot enter them without the consent of the mission.\n\nThe receiving state is under a special duty to protect the mission premises from intrusion or damage or \"impairment of its dignity\". By the same token, the premises of a mission must not be used in a way which is incompatible with the functions of the mission.\n\nThe receiving state is required to permit and protect free communication on behalf of the mission for all official purposes. Such official communication is inviolable and may include the use of diplomatic couriers and messages in code and in cipher, although the consent of the receiving state is required for a wireless transmitter.\n\nThere is no right under international law to diplomatic relations, and they exist by virtue of mutual consent. The sending state must ensure that the consent of the receiving state has been given for its proposed head of mission. Similarly, the receiving state may at any time declare any member of the diplomatic mission \"persona non grata\" and thus obtain the removal of that person.\n\nA right of diplomatic asylum is not established in international law. The International Court of Justice has emphasised that in the absence of treaty or customary rules to the contrary, a decision by a mission to grant asylum involves a derogation from the sovereignty of the receiving state. The Organization of American States agreed a convention in 1954.\n\n"}
{"id": "2023836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023836", "title": "Employment Division v. Smith", "text": "Employment Division v. Smith\n\nEmployment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith, 494 U.S. 872 (1990), is a United States Supreme Court case that held that the state could deny unemployment benefits to a person fired for violating a state prohibition on the use of peyote, even though the use of the drug was part of a religious ritual. Although states have the power to accommodate otherwise illegal acts performed in pursuit of religious beliefs, they are not required to do so.\n\nAlfred Leo Smith and Galen Black were members of the Native American Church and counselors at a private drug rehabilitation clinic. They were fired because they had ingested peyote, a powerful entheogen, as part of their religious ceremonies as members of the Native American Church. At the time, intentional possession of peyote was a crime under Oregon law without an affirmative defense for religious use. The counselors filed a claim for unemployment compensation with the state, but the claim was denied because the reason for their dismissal was deemed work-related \"misconduct.\" The Oregon Court of Appeals reversed that ruling, holding that denying them unemployment benefits for their religious use of peyote violated their right to exercise their religion. The Oregon Supreme Court agreed, although it relied not on the fact that peyote use was a crime but on the fact that the state's justification for withholding the benefits—preserving the \"financial integrity\" of the workers' compensation fund—was outweighed by the burden imposed on the employees' exercise of their religion. The state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, again arguing that denying the unemployment benefits was proper because possession of peyote was a crime.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court let stand the Oregon Supreme Court's judgment regarding the two employees and returned the case to the Oregon courts to determine whether or not sacramental use of illegal drugs violated Oregon's state drug laws (485 U.S. 660 (1988)). On remand, the Oregon Supreme Court concluded that while Oregon drug law prohibited the consumption of illegal drugs for sacramental religious uses, this prohibition violated the free exercise clause. The state asked the U.S. Supreme Court to review this second decision of the Oregon Supreme Court, and it agreed to do so. In earlier rulings, the Court had decided that the government could not condition access to unemployment insurance or other benefits on an individual's willingness to give up conduct required by their religion. However, the Supreme Court did not find that this principle also applied when the conduct in question is justifiably prohibited by law.\n\nOf particular importance was the fact that the Oregon law was not directed at the Native Americans' religious practice specifically; thus, it was deemed constitutional when applied to all citizens:\nThe majority opinion was delivered by Justice Antonin Scalia. The First Amendment forbids government from prohibiting the \"free exercise\" of religion. This means that government may not regulate beliefs as such, either by compelling certain beliefs or forbidding them. Religious belief frequently entails the performance of physical acts—assembling for worship, consumption of bread and wine, abstaining from certain foods or behaviors. Government could no more ban the performance of these physical acts when engaged in for religious reasons than it could ban the religious beliefs that compel those actions in the first place. \"It would doubtless be unconstitutional, for example, to ban the casting of statues that are to be used for worship purposes or to prohibit bowing down before a golden calf.\"\n\nBut Oregon's ban on the possession of peyote is not a law specifically aimed at a physical act engaged in for a religious reason. Rather, it is a law that applies to everyone who might possess peyote, for whatever reason—a \"neutral law of general applicability\". Scalia characterized the employees' argument as an attempt to use their religious motivation to use peyote in order to place themselves beyond the reach of Oregon's neutral, generally applicable ban on the possession of peyote. The Court held that the First Amendment's protection of the \"free exercise\" of religion does not allow a person to use a religious motivation as a reason not to obey such generally applicable laws. Citing the \"Reynolds v. United States\" (1878) decision: \"To permit this would be to make the professed doctrines of religious belief superior to the law of the land, and in effect to permit every citizen to become a law unto himself.\" Thus, the Court had held that religious beliefs did not excuse people from complying with laws forbidding polygamy, child labor laws, Sunday closing laws, laws requiring citizens to register for Selective Service, and laws requiring the payment of Social Security taxes.\n\nBy contrast, the cases in which the Court had allowed a religious motivation to exempt a person from a neutral, generally applicable law involved the assertion of both the right of free exercise along with some other right. Thus, religious publishers are exempt from a law requiring them to obtain a license if that license may be denied to any publisher the government deems nonreligious. The government may not tax religious solicitors. The government may not require the Amish to send their children to school because their religion demands otherwise, and Amish parents, like all parents, have the right to direct the education of their children. Because Smith and Black were not asserting a hybrid right, they could not claim a religious exemption under the First Amendment from Oregon's ban on peyote.\n\nSmith and Black had argued that at the very least, the Court should only uphold Oregon's ban on peyote as applied to them if Oregon had a compelling interest in prohibiting their religious use of peyote. The Court had invalidated three other unemployment compensation restrictions under this standard. But those other restrictions themselves required consideration of individualized circumstances, such as when unemployment compensation was denied to a person who could not, for religious reasons, work on Saturdays. If a state has in place a system of individualized consideration, the constitution did not allow the state to refuse to extend that system to cases of religious hardship without a compelling reason.\n\nBut the difference between the other unemployment cases the Court had decided and this case was that Oregon's ban on peyote applied to everyone equally—in other words, it made no room for individualized consideration of the reasons a person might want to use peyote.\nRather than interpret the First Amendment to require the exemption that Smith and Black sought, the Court encouraged them to seek redress from the legislature. It observed that Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico already specifically exempted religious uses from their otherwise generally applicable peyote bans. \"Just as a society that believes in the negative protection accorded to the press by the First Amendment is likely to enact laws that affirmatively foster the dissemination of the printed word, so also a society that believes in the negative protection afforded to religious belief can be expected to be solicitous of that value in its legislation as well.\" Requiring claims for religious exemptions to be vetted through the legislative process might put less popular religions at a disadvantage, but the Court held that this situation was preferable to the relative anarchy that would result from \"a system in which each conscience is a law unto itself.\"\n\nJustice Sandra Day O'Connor disagreed with the analytical framework the majority had constructed, preferring to apply the traditional compelling interest test to Oregon's ban on peyote. She agreed with the Court's initial premise that the Free Exercise Clause applied to religiously motivated conduct as well as religious beliefs. She pointed out, however, that even a so-called neutral law of general applicability imposes a burden on a person's exercise of religion if that law prevents a person from engaging in religiously motivated conduct or requires a person to engage in conduct forbidden by his or her religion. The First Amendment has to reach both laws that expressly target religion as well as generally applicable laws; otherwise, the law would relegate the constitutional protection of the free exercise of religion to \"the barest level of minimum scrutiny that the Equal Protection Clause already provides.\"\n\nHowever, First Amendment rights are not absolute. The law tolerates burdens on the free exercise of religion that serve a compelling governmental interest and are narrowly tailored to meet that interest. \"The compelling interest test effectuates the First Amendment's command that religious liberty is an independent liberty, that it occupies a preferred position, and that the Court will not permit encroachment upon this liberty, whether direct or indirect, unless required by clear and compelling governmental interests of the highest order.\"\n\nThus, the critical question in this case is whether exempting respondents from the State's general criminal prohibition \"will unduly interfere with fulfillment of the governmental interest,\" Justice O'Connor stated. \"Although the question is close, I would conclude that uniform application of Oregon's criminal prohibition is 'essential to accomplish,' its overriding interest in preventing the physical harm caused by the use of a Schedule I controlled substance.\"\n\nFirst, Justice O'Connor considered the interest of Smith and Black. There was no doubt that the exemption from Oregon's ban on peyote was not a pretext for Smith and Black. It was directly linked to the exercise of their religious beliefs, the sincerity of which the Court does not and should not question. Peyote is a sacrament in the Native American Church; thus, members must \"choose between carrying out the ritual embodying their religious beliefs and avoidance of criminal prosecution. That choice is ... more than sufficient to trigger First Amendment scrutiny.\"\n\nDespite this, \"Oregon's criminal prohibition represents that state's judgment that the possession and use of controlled substances, even by only one person, is inherently harmful and dangerous,\" Justice O'Connor wrote. \"Because the health effects caused by the use of controlled substances exist regardless of the motivation of the user, the use of such substances, even for religious purposes, violates the very purpose of the laws that prohibit them.\" Furthermore, society's interest in preventing trafficking in controlled substances was similarly central to effectuating Oregon's ban on peyote. Justice O'Connor likewise suggested that Smith and Black seek redress in the state legislature and not the courts, for the fact that other states allow religious use of peyote does not compel Oregon to follow suit. Indeed, not even Smith and Black disputed that Oregon's interest in outlawing peyote was compelling.\n\nJustice Harry Blackmun agreed with Justice O'Connor that the compelling interest test should apply to Oregon's ban on peyote, but disagreed with her that the ban was supported by a compelling interest that was narrowly tailored. Blackmun began by \"articulat[ing] in precise terms the state interest involved\" in the ban. Blackmun focused narrowly on the state's interest in not exempting religious use from its otherwise generally applicable ban on peyote rather than the state's broader interest in \"fighting the critical 'war on drugs.'\" Blackmun framed the issue as he did because \"failure to reduce the competing interests to the same plane of generality tends to distort the weighing process in the state's favor.\" Blackmun questioned whether Oregon actually enforced its criminal prohibition on peyote against religious users, noting that it had not actually prosecuted Smith or Black. Because Oregon had not prosecuted any religious users of peyote, its \"asserted interest thus amounts only to the symbolic preservation of an unfettered prohibition. But a government interest in symbolism, even symbolism for so worthy a cause as the abolition of unlawful drugs, cannot suffice to abrogate the constitutional rights of individuals.\"\n\nOregon also claimed an interest in protecting the health and safety of its citizens from the dangers of illegal drug use, but there was no evidence that religious use of peyote actually harmed anyone. The fact that peyote was a Schedule I drug did not persuade Blackmun. The federal government may have placed peyote on Schedule I, but the federal government also tolerated the religious use of peyote. In addition, other Schedule I drugs (such as cannabis) have lawful uses. Religious use was not recreational use; the Native American Church ritual in which peyote is consumed is heavily supervised, thus mitigating Oregon's health and safety concerns. The religious use occurs in a context that harmonizes with the state's general ban. The Native American Church discourages nonreligious use of peyote, and promotes family harmony, self-reliance, and abstinence from alcohol. Research suggests that religious use of peyote can help curb \"the tragic effects of alcoholism on the Native American population.\" And as for the state's interest in abolishing drug trafficking, Blackmun pointed out that there is \"practically no illegal traffic in peyote.\"\n\nFinally, Blackmun expressed concern for \"the severe impact of a state's restrictions on the adherents of a minority religion.\" Eating peyote is \"an act of worship and communion,\" a \"means for communicating with the Great Spirit.\" If Oregon is a hostile environment in which to practice the Native American religion, its adherents might be forced to \"migrate to some other and more tolerant region.\" Blackmun found it inconsistent with First Amendment values to denigrate an \"unorthodox\" religious practice in this way.\n\nCongress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) in 1993, which required the application of strict scrutiny. In response to the Supreme Court's 1997 ruling in \"City of Boerne v. Flores\", which declared the RFRA unconstitutional as applied to the states, Congress passed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) in 2000, which grants special privileges to religious landowners and prisoners.\n\n"}
{"id": "543719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543719", "title": "Employment Non-Discrimination Act", "text": "Employment Non-Discrimination Act\n\nThe Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) is legislation proposed in the United States Congress that would prohibit discrimination in hiring and employment on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity by employers with at least 15 employees.\n\nENDA has been introduced in every Congress since 1994 except the 109th. Similar legislation has been introduced without passage since 1974. The bill gained its best chance at passing after the Democratic Party gained the majority after twelve years of Republican majorities in the 2006 midterm elections. In 2007, gender identity protections were added to the legislation for the first time. Some sponsors believed that even with a Democratic majority, ENDA did not have enough votes to pass the House of Representatives with transgender inclusion and dropped it from the bill, which passed the House and then died in the Senate. President George W. Bush threatened to veto the measure. LGBT advocacy organizations and the LGBT community were divided over support of the modified bill.\n\nIn 2009, following Democratic gains in the 2008 elections, and after the divisiveness of the 2007 debate, Rep. Barney Frank introduced a transgender-inclusive version of ENDA. He introduced it again in 2011, and Sen. Jeff Merkley introduced it in the Senate. On November 7, 2013, Merkley's bill passed the Senate with bipartisan support by a vote of 64–32. President Barack Obama supported the bill's passage.\n\nIn states that have anti-discrimination policies in place, LGBT complaints are equivalent to the number of complaints filed based on sex and fewer than the number of complaints filed based on race.\n\nThe Williams Institute estimates the number of LGBT employees as follows: 7 million private sector employees, 1 million state and local employees, and 200,000 employees of the federal government. Thirty percent of state and local LGBT employees live in California and New York. In comparison, less than half of one half of one percent of LGBT state and local employees live in Montana, North Dakota and Wyoming combined. As one might expect, many of the documented complaints of discrimination by state and local governments against LGBT employees are in California and New York. Surveys that seek to document discrimination on the basis of perceived sexual orientation and/or gender identity are often conducted with a pool of self identified LGBT people, making it difficult to ascertain the impact of this type of discrimination on non-LGBT individuals.\n\nOne source of evidence for hiring discrimination against openly gay men comes from a field experiment that sent two fictitious but realistic resumes to roughly 1,700 entry-level job openings. The two resumes were very similar in terms of the applicant's qualifications, but one resume for each opening mentioned that the applicant had been part of a gay organization in college. The results showed that applicants without the gay signal had an 11.5 percent chance of being called for an interview; openly gay applicants had only a 7.2 percent chance. The callback gap varied widely according to the location of the job. Most of the overall gap detected in the study was driven by the Southern and Midwestern states in the sample – Texas, Florida, and Ohio. The Western and Northeastern states in the sample (California, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and New York) had only small and statistically insignificant callback gaps.\n\nTransgender people may experience higher rates of discrimination than the LGBT population. A survey of transgender and gender non-conforming people conducted by the National Center for Transgender Equality found 90 percent of respondents experienced harassment, mistreatment, or discrimination on the job or took actions like hiding who they are to avoid it. In comparison, a review of studies conducted by the Williams Institute in 2007 found that transgender people experienced employment discrimination at a rate 15 to 57 percent.\n\nIn a survey conducted by Harris Interactive, 38 percent of LGBT people report incomes less than $35,000, compared to 33 percent of all U.S. adults over age 18.\n\nThe current version of the bill under consideration in Congress prohibits private employers with more than 15 employees from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Religious organizations are provided an exception, broader than that found in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Non-profit membership-only clubs, except labor unions, are similarly exempt.\n\nAll versions of the bill, irrespective of the military's changing policies with respect to service by open gays and lesbians, have provided an exclusion for the military as an employer of members of the armed forces, though not as an employer of civilians.\n\nSince the 111th Congress, the legislation has included language to prevent any reading of the law as a modification of the federal definition of marriage established in the Defense of Marriage Act (1995). Since the 110th Congress, a related provision aimed at non-marital legal relations like civil unions and domestic partnerships prevents requiring an employer to treat unmarried and married couples similarly.\n\nOn May 14, 1974, the fifth anniversary of the Stonewall Rebellion, Reps. Bella Abzug (D-NY) and Ed Koch (D-NY) introduced , the \"Equality Act\", which would have added sexual orientation and gender identity to the protected classes specified in the Civil Rights Act of 1964, thus prohibiting discrimination in employment and access to public accommodations and facilities. The bill died in June 1974 but was reintroduced in the 115th United States Congress on May 2, 2017.\n\nIn the early 1990s, supporters of the legislation decided to focus on employment. Rep. Gerry Studds introduced the Employment Non-Discrimination Act on June 23, 1994. The legislation failed in 1994 and 1995. In 1996, the bill failed on a 49–50 vote in the Senate and was not voted on in the House. Its level of support in the Senate may have represented an attempt by some to compensate for their recent support of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which prohibited the federal government from recognizing same-sex marriages. These early versions of ENDA did not include provisions to protect transgender people from discrimination and ENDA was not introduced in the 109th Congress.\n\nIn the 110th United States Congress there were two versions of the bill, both of which provided employment protections similar to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Reps. Barney Frank, Chris Shays, Tammy Baldwin, and Deborah Pryce introduced on April 24, 2007. It included gender identity within its protections. It defined gender identity as \"gender-related identity, appearance, or mannerisms or other gender-related characteristics of an individual, with or without regard to the individual's designated sex at birth.\" It allowed employers to require adherence \"to the same dress or grooming standards for the gender to which the employee has transitioned or is transitioning.\"\n\nWhen that bill died in committee, Frank introduced on September 27, 2007, which did not include gender identity and contained exemptions concerning employer dress codes. It was endorsed by the Education and Labor Committee on October 18 and the House of Representatives passed it on November 7, 2007, by a vote of 235 to 184, with 14 members not voting. Frank introduced a separate piece of legislation to prohibit discrimination in employment on the basis of gender identity.\n\nSome LGBT activist organizations refused to support H.R. 3685 because of its failure to cover gender identity. An exception was the Human Rights Campaign, which received wide criticism from the LGBT community for supporting a non-inclusive ENDA. The LGBT activist organizations that refused to support H.R. 3685 argued that not including transgender people undermined the underlying principle of ENDA. They claimed that failure to include gender identity/expression weakened the protection for the portion of the LGBT population that most needed its protections: gender non-conforming people, who they claimed are discriminated against in greater numbers than their gender-conforming compatriots. Others argued that this was ENDA's best chance of passing Congress in thirty years, that civil rights victories have historically been incremental, that concerns about the legislation's protections were unfounded, and that forgoing a chance to provide immediate workplace protections to millions of lesbians, gays and bisexuals was politically and morally wrong.\n\nOn June 24, 2009, Frank introduced to ban workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, with 114 original cosponsors, up from 62 cosponsors for the trans-inclusive bill of 2007.\" The lead Republican cosponsor was Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL). Republican Main Street Partnership members Mark Kirk (R-IL), Mike Castle (R-DE), Todd Russell Platts (R-PA), Judy Biggert (R-IL), and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) were among the original cosponsors. The bill was referred to the House Education and Labor Committee, which held a hearing on the legislation on September 23, 2009. At the end of the 111th Congress, H.R. 3017 had 203 cosponsors in the House.\n\nOn August 5, 2009, Sen. Jeff Merkley introduced ENDA legislation () that included gender identity, with 38 original cosponsors including Sens. Ted Kennedy (D-MA), Susan Collins (R-ME), Olympia Snowe (R-ME) and Chris Dodd (D-CT). Sen. Merkley said \"It's certainly possible that this could be passed by year's end, though the [congressional] schedule is very crowded.\" As of March 13, 2010, S. 1584 had 45 co-sponsors and was pending before the Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, which held a hearing on the legislation on November 5, 2009.\n\nOn April 6, 2011, Frank introduced an ENDA bill () in the House to ban workplace discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nOn April 14, 2011, Sen. Jeff Merkley introduced an ENDA bill () in the Senate. The bill had 39 original cosponsors. On June 19, 2012, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions held a hearing on the bill, the first such hearing to include testimony by a transgender witness.\n\nOn April 25, 2013, Representative Jared Polis (D-CO) introduced an ENDA bill in the House () and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) introduced an ENDA bill in the Senate ().\n\nOn July 10, 2013, the Senate Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee approved ENDA by a 15–7 vote. Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN) announced he would offer three amendments when the Senate takes up the measure.\n\nA cloture vote succeeded in the Senate on November 4, 2013, with 61 voting in favor and 30 against, allowing the Senate to schedule a vote. Republican Senators Kelly Ayotte (NH), Susan Collins (ME), Orrin Hatch (UT), Dean Heller (NV), Mark Kirk (IL), Rob Portman (OH), and Pat Toomey (PA) voted for cloture, joining 52 of 53 Democratic senators and both independent senators. Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) supported the legislation, but were unable to attend the cloture vote.\n\nAfter rejecting by a vote of 43–55 an amendment by Senator Toomey to expand the religious exemptions and accepting by unanimous voice vote an amendment by Senator Portman to prevent government retaliation against religious institutions, the Senate approved ENDA on November 7, 2013, on a 64–32 vote. Arizona Republicans Jeff Flake and John McCain unexpectedly joined Sen. Murkowski and the seven Republicans who had supported three days earlier. Both independents and 52 of 53 Democrats again supported the measure, with McCaskill present but Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey, who supported the bill's passage, absent.\n\nIn the House, on September 17, 2014, Representative Polis filed a discharge petition, that, if signed by a majority of the House membership, would force a vote on the version of ENDA with a narrow religious exemption. By September 22, it had been endorsed by 190 of the 218 that constitute a majority. On December 3, 2014 6 of the 8 Republican co-sponsors asked House Speaker John Boehner to allow a vote on the legislation \"as part of any available legislative vehicle including the National Defense Authorization Act\" before the end of the 113th Congress. Later that day, the House Rules Committee voted 7 to 3 against adding ENDA as an amendment to the 2015 defense authorization bill.\n\nFrom the 114th Congress onwards, efforts to pass non-discrimination legislation has focused on the broader Equality Act which focuses on additional protections including in housing and the jury system as well as employment.\n\nPolitical proponents of the law intend it to address cases where gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender employees have been discriminated against by their employers because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Currently, these employees are unable to find protection in the courts because sexual orientation is not considered to be a suspect class by the federal courts and by many U.S. states. Proponents argue that such a law is appropriate in light of the United States Constitution's guarantees of equal protection and due process to all. Advocates argue that homosexuality is not a \"choice\" but a personal identity, a claim supported by the American Psychology Association (APA), and that all working people have a right to be judged by the quality of their work performance and not by completely unrelated factors. According to a study published in 2001 by the Williams Institute at the UCLA School of Law, reports of discrimination based on sexual orientation are roughly equal to those on race or gender. The APA also states that there is significant discrimination against homosexuals in the workforce.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Office in 2002 estimated that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's complaint caseload would rise by 5 to 7% as a result of the proposed law. Assessments of the impact of comparable state policies also show a minimal impact on caseload. Regarding constitutionality, the act incorporates language similar to that of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which has consistently been upheld by the courts.\n\nIn 1994, Barry Goldwater, a hero among the conservative and libertarian movements, became honorary chairman of a drive to pass a federal law preventing job discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.\n\nEd Vitagliano, director of research for the American Family Association (AFA), expressed concern about the impact of anti-discrimination laws on religious organizations. He cited a lack of clarity around whether the narrow exemption would apply to support staff and lay employees in addition to churches and clergy.\n\nThe Traditional Values Coalition (TVC) has claimed that the legislation would have a negative impact on school children by eliminating schools' ability to avoid hiring transgender teachers. It said that \"If ENDA passes, students and children in daycare centers all across the nation will be subjected to individuals experimenting with their gender identities.\"\n\nSome Libertarians argue that laws against private sector discrimination are acts of coercion that infringe on employers' property rights and freedom of association.\n\nThe United States Conference of Catholic Bishops said ENDA goes beyond prohibiting unjust discrimination and poses several problems. It notes, for example, that the bill: (1) lacks an exception for a \"bona fide occupational qualification,\" which exists for every other category of discrimination under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, except for race; (2) lacks a distinction between homosexual inclination and conduct, thus affirming and protecting extramarital sexual conduct; (3) supports the redefinition of marriage, as state-level laws like ENDA have been invoked in state court decisions finding marriage discriminatory or irrational; (4) rejects the biological basis of gender by defining \"gender identity\" as something people may choose at variance with their biological sex; and (5) threatens religious liberty by punishing as discrimination the religious or moral disapproval of same-sex sexual conduct, while protecting only some religious employers.\n\nIn June and July 2014, several pro-LGBT advocacy groups, including the American Civil Liberties Union, National Center for Lesbian Rights, National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, Transgender Law Center, and Lambda Legal, announced they were withdrawing support for the 113th Congress version of ENDA because of their concerns about the breadth of its religious exemption in relation to the ruling in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.\".\n\nFrom the 114th Congress onwards, efforts to pass non-discrimination legislation has focused on the broader Equality Act which focuses on additional protections including in housing and the jury system as well as employment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31791444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31791444", "title": "Expert witnesses in English law", "text": "Expert witnesses in English law\n\nThe role of expert witnesses in English law is to give explanations of difficult or technical topics in civil and criminal trials, to assist the fact finding process. The extent to which authorities have been allowed to testify, and on what topics, has been debated, and to this end a variety of criterion have evolved throughout English case law.\n\nGenerally, witnesses are not permitted when giving evidence to tender their own opinions as fact. The reason for this is that to allow opinion evidence would be to usurp the fact finding duties of either a jury - in criminal trials - or of the Judge. Thus, a witness is allowed to testify that he saw a suspect waiting on a street corner at a specified time, but not that he believed the suspect 'looked shady', or was 'up to no good'. Such evidence would not only be irrelevant as having little probative value, but could be damaging if accepted by the tribunal as fact.\n\nThe role of expert witnesses is to give certain evidence, tendered as opinion, where its basis would otherwise be outside the general expertise and knowledge of the tribunal. To this end they represent an exception to the general rule against opinion, because to follow such a strict approach otherwise would result in much scientific or technical evidence being disregarded when it was not understood.\n\nWhile such a proposition may seem to make logical sense where an expert witness is simply testifying as to the consistency of ballistic evidence, or of foot prints, it is flawed when considering more subjective evidence. As the nature of an expert's testimony is inherently outside of a tribunal's understanding, the tribunal will not be well placed to consider the cogency or reliability of the expert's opinion. This has led to high profile miscarriages of justice where certain experts have expressed particularly strong opinions on matters without strong scientific consensus, or where they are considered to be the leading expert in their field. In such instances, it has been difficult for the court to initially refuse to admit experts, given their testimony is often necessary in the instant case.\n\nGiven the probative value which tribunals may assign to expert witness evidence, their role has been restricted to instances where their expertise is unavoidably necessary. However, as fields of scientific knowledge continue to expand, and with the advent of forensic evidence, such instances are now commonplace, and the need for experts has been described as 'ever-expanding'. Common areas that expert witnesses offer opinion on are ballistics, blood-alcohol calculations and levels, DNA or genetic fingerprinting, and fingerprint identification. Such areas are the least controversial, as the expert is testifying on science which is generally accepted, and their opinion will, in the absence of fraudulent process, be reproducible by other experts. It is where the opinions of experts are not firmly grounded in fact that they have faced controversy, but it is arguable that to deny any experts where their opinion is not grounded on absolute fact would result in a slow adoption of new technologies of evidence.\n\nThe primary test as to whether an expert is necessary at trial is whether their expertise falls within the experience and knowledge of the Judge or jury. If it is thought that the tribunal has sufficient understanding of the principles the expert will be testifying on, then the expert is inadmissible. By way of example, two cases relating to the recollection of memories by witnesses demonstrate this rule. In the former case of \"R v Browning\", an expert was not allowed to testify on the expected ordinary deterioration of memories in healthy individuals; such a matter was seen to be firmly within the experience of ordinary individuals, and the weight of any long term memories could be accordingly assessed. On the other hand, an expert was allowed in the later case of \"R v H (JR)\" to present evidence on a complainant's recollections from a period of childhood amnesia, given that ordinary jurors would not know the complexities associated with the recollections of such individuals. Experts have also been deemed necessary to testify about the complexities of memories recalled through hypnosis, given that tribunals will not often be versed in the dangers of such memories being more susceptible to falsehoods.\n\nExperts are admissible as a necessity where a defendant pleads an insanity defence, or a defence of diminished responsibility. In these circumstances it is necessary for an expert to assess whether the individual was suffering from a recognised psychiatric disease, in order for the defence to succeed. The Criminal Procedure (Insanity and Unfitness to Plead) Act 1991 requires:\n\nwritten or oral evidence of two or more registered medical practitioners at least one of whom is duly approved.\n\nWhere an individual attempts to adduce expert evidence in aid of their defence, they must have been suffering from a genuine and recognised mental condition, which was capable of producing effects on the mind and body outside the expertise of the tribunal. Thus, in \"R v Smith\", a defendant to murder by stabbing was permitted to call an expert to explain the effects of automatism, which he had been suffering from. It has been made clear that in cases where individuals are merely vulnerable or easily susceptible to suggestion, expert witnesses may not be called in order to testify to such characteristics. In \"R v Weightman\" it was stated that:\n\n\"... the principle to be learnt from the cases, notably the case of Turner, is that a psychiatrists evidence is inadmissible where its purpose is in effect to tell a jury how a person who is not suffering from mental illness is likely to react to the stresses and strains in life.\"\n\nThis case has been followed by \"R v Walker\", where an individual accused of shoplifting attempted to adduce expert evidence of their condition, which it was claimed made them more vulnerable to threats of duress. While the case was described as borderline by the Court of Appeal, it was decided that such evidence could be properly admitted where it was not commonly found in ordinary individuals. A strict approach to such evidence has faced criticism in some cases, with the decision of \"R v Masih\" highlighting how a borderline case may be difficult for the courts. Here, an individual with an IQ of 72 was not permitted to adduce expert evidence of his difficulties in comprehension, social situations, and of his particular vulnerabilities. Had his IQ been three points lower at 69, he would have been seen in law as having a mental defect, and thus such evidence would have been admissible.\n\nWhile expert evidence may be deemed relevant when deciding the impact of any mental defect of the accused, it has generally been ruled that evidence cannot be adduced as to the credibility of witnesses. In the care proceedings of \"Re S (a child) (adoption: psychological evidence)\" it was deemed wrong that a Judge should consider evidence that the mother in the proceedings was prone to lie to authorities, based on the results of a psychological test. Another clear example is illustrated in \"R v Robinson\", where the prosecution called an educational psychiatrist to effectively bolster the testimony of the complainant, by asserting that due to his educational difficulties he was unlikely to lie. The Court of Appeal overturned the appellant's conviction based on this evidence, with the court labeling such evidence as merely 'oath-helping'. A limited exception to the rule was established in \"R v Lowery\". Here, two co-defendants were charged with murder, with the facts of the case such that one of them must have committed the offence. The court allowed one co-defendant to present expert evidence of the other's propensity for violence and of his lack of self-control, with the expert giving the opinion that this defendant was more likely to have committed the offence. While this case has been relied upon to some extent in the later case of \"R v Randall\", it has been made clear in several other cases that \"Lowery\" was decided on its unique facts.\n\nA more controversial application of this rule has come in cases of rape allegations, with prosecutors wishing to call expert witnesses to explain the psychological effects of rape upon victims, and how these may manifest themselves in specific cases. In a Government consultation paper, 'Convicting Rapists and Protecting Victims – Justice for Victims of Rape', it was considered that the mental state of rape victims is generally outside the expertise of the public, and thus exceptions should be made for prosecutions to call experts on their behalf. The problem currently is demonstrated where defendants attempt to discredit rape victims by highlighting abnormalities in their behavior after any alleged incident. Such behavior is demonstrably compatible with that of a rape victim, but as expert witnesses are not allowed to testify as to this, the jury is often faced with deciding against an incomplete factual background.\n\nAlthough expert witnesses are not allowed to testify as to the credibility of a witness, they have been permitted to testify as to the credibility or reliability of a confession. The test as to where this will be permissible is similar to that used for general psychiatric evidence; the individual seeking to adduce expert testimony must have been suffering from a genuine personality disorder outside the understanding of the tribunal, and this must have some effect of rendering their confession unreliable. Where such evidence is adduced, it has been made clear by \"R v O'Brien\" that the jury must be instructed they are not under obligation to accept such evidence, but must consider it with regard to the confession in issue. A second situation where evidence has been permitted is where there are allegations that a confession may have been coerced, or given as a form of compliance rather than voluntarily. In \"R v Blackburn\" the Court of Appeal ruled that the area of coerced confessions fell outside the experience of ordinary individuals, and thus expert evidence may be adduced where this is at issue.\n\nWhere it is considered that an expert witness may be required to give evidence, it is still necessary to consider whether the theory or basis for their evidence is well founded, or generally accepted. If it is not, then there is a risk that a tribunal may attach undue weight to an expert's opinion which may only be his own, or that numerous experts could be called who would disagree with each other. This has been recognised by the English courts in a series of decisions, and while no general test has been explicitly stated, an approach analogous to that of the American courts has been adopted. In \"R v Gilfoyle\" the court appeared to suggest that where an expert opinion could not be independently reviewed by any given criteria, this would prevent its admittance. Shortly after in \"R v Dallagher\" this stance was expanded upon, with the case focusing on ear-print evidence. Perhaps worryingly however, in approving a passage from the American case of \"Daubert v Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals\", the court chose not to give regard to any of the factors for admittance that the American courts had used. These include whether a given technique can be independently tested, whether it has been published in accredited journals and peer-reviewed, and whether it is generally accepted. Without having regard to these factors, the Court of Appeal decided controversially that ear-print identifications were admissible, despite a general consensus as to their ability to identify individuals uniquely. The same principles were approved in \"R v Luttrell\", where the Court established that in some occasions, the reliability of expert evidence would not affect its admissibility, but merely require a warning as to its shortcomings and error rate in the form of jury instructions.\n\nIt can be seen in a string of cases however that such an approach is capable of producing miscarriages of justice, given the weight which is attached to expert evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "6219702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6219702", "title": "Foreign national", "text": "Foreign national\n\nA foreign national is any person who is not a national of the country in which he or she is residing or temporarily sojourning. For example, a foreign national in Canada is someone who is neither a Canadian citizen nor a permanent resident.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Congress, which is responsible for creating and revising U.S. federal law, \"the term 'foreign national' means. . . an individual who is not a citizen of the United States or a national of the United States (as defined in section 1101(a)(22) of title 8) and who is not lawfully admitted for permanent residence, as defined by section 1101(a)(20) of title 8.\" In other words, U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, and permanent U.S. residents are not foreign nationals when it comes to the U.S. Constitution and the laws of the United States. A permanent U.S. resident is statutorily entitled to U.S. nationality and at the same time strictly prohibited from spending more than six months outside the United States.\n\nAny alien who is provided Temporary Protected Status (TPS), which is a special program that was created by the U.S. Congress in the early 1990s, is considered a foreign national. Unless shown by \"clear and convincing evidence\" to the contrary, such foreign national is not a refugee and has no right to U.S. nationality or permanent residency.\n\nThe law of Canada divides people into three major groups: citizens, permanent residents, and foreign nationals. Under section 2 of the Immigration and Refugee Protection of Canada (IRPA), \"foreign national means a person who is not a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident, and includes a stateless person.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10596797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10596797", "title": "Gbara", "text": "Gbara\n\nThe Gbara (; now spelled and pronounced as \"Bara\" or \"Gara\" in those Manding languages lacking ) or Great Assembly was the deliberative body of the Mali Empire, which ruled much of West Africa during the Middle Ages. It was first formed in 1235 on the orders of Sundiata in the Mandinka constitution known as the Kouroukan Fouga.\n\nThe Gbara was made up of 32 members from around 29 mostly Mandinka clans. Members of these clans had aided Sundiata in his overthrow of Soumaoro Kante and were given a voice in the government of a new Manden federation, the Manden Kurufa. The descendants of these clans occupied posts in the Gbara, and checked the power of the federal emperor, the Mansa. It was presided over by a belen-tigui (or master of ceremonies) who recognized anyone who wanted to speak, including the Mansa.\n\nThe Gbara was divided into four voting blocs divided among military, political, religious and economic lines. The \"Djon-Tan-Nor-Woro\" (sometimes cited as the \"Ton-Ta-Jon\"), meaning carriers of quivers, were the military wing of the Gbara, responsible for leading the army and sometimes governing provinces (\"tinkurus\") or counties (\"kafos\"). The purely political bloc of the Gbara was the clans of Maghan (literally 'Princely Clans'). This group included the imperial clans and related clans that could also ascend to the throne. The constitution of the empire also included religious clans serving as marabouts (or Islamic guides to the nobility). This group also functioned as diviners able to interpret omens and other happenings. Lastly, there were the clans of \"Nyamakala\" ('wielders of Nyama'). \"Nyama\" is the power or energy that flows within and between everything, and its skilled manipulation is necessary to perform certain functions, especially smithing or serving as a chronicler/bard/griot (jeli / djeli). \n\nThe 16 \"Djon-Tan-Nor-Woro\" ('Carriers of Quivers') clans responsible for defense, and the descendants of Sundiata Keita's generals and best soldiers, are:\n\nThe 4 Maghan (Princely) clans, responsible for leadership, are:\n\nThe 5 \"Mori-Kanda-Lolou\" ('Guardians of the Faith'), clans responsible for Islamic teaching and advice, are:\n\nThe 7 \"Nyamakala\" ('Wielders of Nyama, the power of life/creative force), clans responsible for products, are:\n\n"}
{"id": "1203070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1203070", "title": "Government spending", "text": "Government spending\n\nGovernment spending or expenditure includes all government consumption, investment, and transfer payments. In national income accounting the acquisition by governments of goods and services for current use, to directly satisfy the individual or collective needs of the community, is classed as government final consumption expenditure. Government acquisition of goods and services intended to create future benefits, such as infrastructure investment or research spending, is classed as government investment (government gross capital formation). These two types of government spending, on final consumption and on gross capital formation, together constitute one of the major components of gross domestic product.\n\nGovernment spending can be financed by government borrowing, or taxes. Changes in government spending is a major component of fiscal policy used to stabilize the macroeconomic business cycle.\n\nGovernment spending can be a useful economic policy tool for governments. Fiscal policy can be defined as the use of government spending and/or taxation as a mechanism to influence an economy. There are two types of fiscal policy: expansionary fiscal policy, and contractionary fiscal policy. Expansionary fiscal policy is an increase in government spending or a decrease in taxation, while contractionary fiscal policy is a decrease in government spending or an increase in taxes. Expansionary fiscal policy can be used by governments to stimulate the economy during a recession. For example, an increase in government spending directly increases demand for goods and services, which can help increase output and employment. On the other hand, contractionary fiscal policy can be used by governments to cool down the economy during an economic boom. A decrease in government spending can help keep inflation in check. During economic downturns, in the short run, government spending can be changed either via automatic stabilization or discretionary stabilization. Automatic stabilization is when existing policies automatically change government spending or taxes in response to economic changes, without the additional passage of laws. A primary example of an automatic stabilizer is unemployment insurance, which provides financial assistance to unemployed workers. Discretionary stabilization is when a government takes actions to change government spending or taxes in direct response to changes in the economy. For instance, a government may decide to increase government spending as a result of a recession. With discretionary stabilization, the government must pass a new law to make changes in government spending.\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes was one of the first economists to advocate for government deficit spending as part of the fiscal policy response to an economic contraction. According to Keynesian economics, increased government spending raises aggregate demand and increases consumption, which leads to increased production and faster recovery from recessions. Classical economists, on the other hand, believe that increased government spending exacerbates an economic contraction by shifting resources from the private sector, which they consider productive, to the public sector, which they consider unproductive.\n\nIn economics, the potential \"shifting\" in resources from the private sector to the public sector as a result of an increase in government deficit spending is called crowding out. The figure to the right depicts the market for capital, otherwise known as the market for loanable funds. The downward sloping demand curve D1 represents demand for private capital by firms and investors, and the upward sloping supply curve S1 represents savings by private individuals. The initial equilibrium in this market is represented by point A, where the equilibrium quantity of capital is K1 and the equilibrium interest rate is R1. If the government increases deficit spending, it will borrow money from the private capital market and reduce the supply of savings to S2. The new equilibrium is at point B, where the interest rate has increased to R2 and the quantity of capital available to the private sector has decreased to K1. The government has essentially made borrowing more expensive and has taken away savings from the market, which \"crowds out\" some private investment. The crowding out of private investment could limit the economic growth from the initial increase government spending.\n\nGovernment acquisition of goods and services for current use to directly satisfy individual or collective needs of the members of the community is called government final consumption expenditure (GFCE.) It is a purchase from the national accounts \"use of income account\" for goods and services directly satisfying of individual needs (\"individual consumption\") or collective needs of members of the community (\"collective consumption\"). GFCE consists of the value of the goods and services produced by the government itself other than own-account capital formation and sales and of purchases by the government of goods and services produced by market producers that are supplied to households—without any transformation—as \"social transfers\" in kind.\n\nThe United States spends vastly more than other countries on national defense. The table below shows the top 10 countries with largest military expenditures as of 2015, the most recent year with publicly available data. As the table suggests, the United States spent nearly 3 times as much on the military than China, the country with the next largest military spending. The U.S. military budget dwarfed spending by all other countries in the top 10, with 8 out of countries spending less than $100 billion in 2016.\n\nResearch Australia found 91% of Australians think ‘improving hospitals and the health system’ should be the Australian Government’s first spending priority. \n\nCrowding 'in' also happens in university life science research Subsidies, funding and government business or projects like this are often justified on the basis of their positive return on investment. Life science crowding in contrasts with crowding out in public funding of research more widely: “10% increase in government R&D funding reduced private R&D expenditure by 3%...In Australia the average cost of public funds is estimated to be $1.20 and $1.30 for each dollar raised (Robson, 2005). The marginal cost is probably higher, but estimates differ widely depending on the tax that is increased.”\n\nGovernment acquisition intended to create future benefits, such as infrastructure investment or research spending, is called gross fixed capital formation, or government investment, which usually is the largest part of the government. Acquisition of goods and services is made through production by the government (using the government's labour force, fixed assets and purchased goods and services for intermediate consumption) or through purchases of goods and services from market producers. In economic theory or in macroeconomics, investment is the amount purchased per unit of time of goods which are not consumed but are to be used for future production (i.e. capital). Examples include railroad or factory construction.\n\nInfrastructure spending is considered government investment because it will usually save money in the long run, and thereby reduce the net present value of government liabilities.\n\nSpending on physical infrastructure in the U.S. returns an average of about $1.92 for each $1.00 spent on nonresidential construction because it is almost always less expensive to maintain than repair or replace once it has become unusable.\n\nLikewise, government spending on social infrastructure, such as preventative health care, can save several hundreds of billions of dollars per year in the U.S., because for example cancer patients are more likely to be diagnosed at Stage I where curative treatment is typically a few outpatient visits, instead of at Stage III or later in an emergency room where treatment can involve years of hospitalization and is often terminal.\n\nGovernment expenditures that are not acquisition of goods and services, and which represent transfers of money such as social security payments, are called transfer payments. These payments are considered to be non-exhaustive because they do not directly absorb resources or create output. In other words, transfers are made without an exchange of goods or services. Examples of certain transfer payments include welfare (financial aid), social security, and government giving subsidies to certain businesses (firms).\n\nIn 2010 national governments spent an average of $2,376 per person, while the average for the world's 20 largest economies (in terms of GDP) was $16,110 per person. Norway and Sweden expended the most at $40,908 and $26,760 per capita respectively. The federal government of the United States spent $11,041 per person. Other large economy country spending figures include South Korea ($4,557), Brazil ($2,813), Russia ($2,458), China ($1,010), and India ($226). The figures below of 42% of GDP spending and a GDP per capita of $54,629 for the U.S. indicate a total per person spending including national, state, and local governments was $22,726 in the U.S.\n\n This is a list of countries by government spending as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) for the listed countries, according to the \"2014 Index of Economic Freedom\" by The Heritage Foundation and \"The Wall Street Journal\". Tax revenue is included for comparison.\n\nPublic social spending comprises cash benefits, direct in-kind provision of goods and services, and tax breaks with social purposes provided by general government (that is central, state, and local governments, including social security funds).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54665589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54665589", "title": "Independent Election Commission (Jordan)", "text": "Independent Election Commission (Jordan)\n\nThe Independent Election Commission is the national electoral commission of Jordan, which is responsible for administering and supervising elections under the Constitution of Jordan. \n\nAn amendment to the constitution in 2011 enabled the establishment of the Commission, which was a demand from the Arab Spring protests. The commission is responsible for all elections in Jordan, including the general and local elections.\n"}
{"id": "4927404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927404", "title": "Legislative session", "text": "Legislative session\n\nA legislative session is the period of time in which a legislature, in both parliamentary and presidential systems, is convened for purpose of lawmaking, usually being one of two or more smaller divisions of the entire time between two elections. In each country the procedures for opening, ending, and in between sessions differs slightly. A session may last for the full term of the legislature or the term may consist of a number of sessions. These may be of fixed duration, such as a year, or may be used as a parliamentary procedural device. A session of the legislature is brought to an end by an official act of prorogation. In either event, the effect of prorogation is generally the clearing of all outstanding matters before the legislature.\n\nHistorically, each session of a parliament would last less than one year, ceasing with a prorogation during which legislators could return to their constituencies. In more recent times, development in transportation technology has permitted these individuals to journey with greater ease and frequency from the legislative capital to their respective electoral districts (sometimes called \"ridings\", electorate, division) for short periods, meaning that parliamentary sessions typically last for more than one year, though the length of sessions varies. Legislatures plan their business within a legislative calendar, which lays out how bills will proceed before a session ceases, although related but unofficial affairs may be conducted by legislators outside a session or during a session on days in which parliament is not meeting.\n\nWhile a parliament is prorogued, between two legislative sessions, the legislature is still constitutedi.e. no general election takes place and all Members of Parliament thus retain their seats. In many legislatures, prorogation causes all orders of the bodybills, motions, etc.to be expunged. Prorogations should thus not be confused with recesses, adjournments, or holiday breaks from legislation, after which bills can resume exactly where they left off. In the United Kingdom, however, the practice of terminating all bills upon prorogation has slightly altered; public bills may be re-introduced in the next legislative session, and fast-tracked directly to the stage they reached in the prorogued legislative session.\n\nThis break takes place so as to prevent the upper house from sitting during an election campaign and to purge all upper chamber business before the start of the next legislative session. It is not uncommon for a session of parliament to be put into recess during holidays and then resumed a few weeks later exactly where it left off. Governments today end sessions whenever it is most convenient, and often, a new session will begin on the same day that the previous session ended. In most cases, when parliament reconvenes for a new legislative session, the head of state, or a representative thereof, will address the legislature in an opening ceremony.\n\nIn both parliamentary and presidential systems, sessions are referred to by the name of the body and an ordinal numberfor example, the \"2nd Session of the 39th Canadian Parliament\" or the \"1st Session of the 109th United States Congress\".\n\nIn Commonwealth realms, legislative sessions can last from a few weeks to over a year; between general elections; there are usually anywhere from one to six sessions of parliament before a dissolution by either the Crown-in-Council or the expiry of a legally mandated term limit. Each session begins with a speech from the throne, read to the members of both legislative chambers either by the reigning sovereign or a viceroy or other representative. Houses of parliament in some realms will, following this address, introduce a \"pro forma\" bill as a symbol of the right of parliament to give priority to matters other than the monarch's speech (always written by the cabinet of the day).\n\nIn the parliament of the United Kingdom, prorogation is immediately preceded by a speech to both legislative chambers, with procedures similar to the Throne Speech. The monarch usually approves the oration—which recalls the prior legislative session, noting major bills passed and other functions of the government—but rarely delivers it in person, Queen Victoria being the last to do so. Instead, the speech is presented by the Lords Commissioners and read by the Leader of the House of Lords. When King Charles I dissolved the Parliament of England in 1628, after the Petition of Right, he gave a prorogation speech that effectively cancelled all future meetings of the legislature, at least until he again required finances.\n\nPrior to 1977, it was common for the federal Parliament to have up to three sessions, with Parliament being prorogued at the end of each session and recalled at the beginning of the next. This was not always the case, for instance the 10th Parliament (1926–1928) went full term without prorogation. The practice of having multiple sessions in the same parliament gradually fell into disuse, and all parliaments from 1978 to 2013 had a single session. (There were only four prorogations since 1961, twice to allow the visiting Queen to \"open\" Parliament, once after the death of Prime Minister Harold Holt and for political reasons in 2016.) Since 1990, it has been the practice for the parliament to be prorogued on the same day that the House is dissolved so that the Senate will not be able to sit during the election period.\n\nHowever, on 21 March 2016, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull announced that the 44th Parliament, elected in 2013, would be prorogued on 15 April and that a second session would begin on 18 April. Prorogation is now a procedural device, the effect of which is to call the Parliament back on a particular date (especially the Senate, which the government did not control), and to wipe clean all matters before each House, without triggering an election.\n\nIn the Parliament of Canada and its provinces, the legislature is typically prorogued upon the completion of the agenda set forth in the Speech from the Throne (called the \"legislative programme\" in the UK). It remains in recess until the monarch, governor general, or lieutenant governor summons parliamentarians again. Historically, long prorogations allowed legislators to spend part of their year in the capital city and part in their home ridings. However, this reason has become less important with the advent of rapid transcontinental travel.\n\nMore recently, prorogations have triggered speculation that they were advised by the sitting prime minister for political purposes: for example, in the 40th Parliament, the first prorogation occurred in the midst of a parliamentary dispute, in which the opposition parties expressed intent to defeat the minority government, and the second was suspected by opposition Members of Parliament to be a way to avoid investigations into the Afghan detainees affair and triggered citizen protests. In October 2012, the provincial legislature of Ontario was prorogued under similar circumstances, allegedly to avoid scrutiny of the provincial Government on a number of issues.\n\nBills are numbered within each session. For example, in the federal House of Commons each session's government bills are numbered from C-2 to C-200, and the numbering returns again to C-2 following a prorogation (Bill C-1 is a \"pro-forma\" bill).\n\nIn the United States, some state legislatures meet only part of the year. Depending upon limitations of the state's constitution, if business arises that must be addressed before the next regular session, the governor may call a special session.\n\nThe US Congress is renewed every two years as required by the US Constitution, with all members of the House of Representatives up for reelection and one-third of the members of the US Senate up for reelection. (Senators serve a six-year term; House members serve a two-year term). Each Congress sits in two sessions lasting approximately one year. Thus, the 1st session of the 114th Congress commenced on January 3, 2015 and the 2nd session commenced on January 3, 2016, with the same members and no intervening election. All legislative business, however, is cleared at the end of each session. It is common for bills to be reintroduced in the second session that were not passed in the first session, and the restrictions on reconsideration only apply to a single session.\n\nWhen the leaders of the majority party in each house have determined that no more business will be conducted by that house during that term of Congress, a motion is introduced to adjourn \"sine die\", effectively dissolving that house. Typically, this is done at some point after the general congressional election in November of even-numbered years. If the party in power is retained, it may happen as early as mid-November and members return to their districts for the holiday season. However, when the party in power is ousted or if important business, such as approval of appropriation bills, has not been completed, Congress will often meet in a lame-duck session, adjourning as late as December 31, before the newly elected Congress takes office on January 3.\n\n"}
{"id": "58436204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58436204", "title": "Lina Khan", "text": "Lina Khan\n\nLina M. Khan is an English-born American jurist specializing in competition law in the United States.\n\nKhan was born in London to Pakistani parents and moved with them to the United States as a child; she graduated from Williams College in 2010 and received her JD from Yale University in 2017. As a law student at Yale University, she became a public figure in 2017 when her article in the Yale Law Journal, \"Amazon's Antitrust Paradox\", made a significant impact in American legal and business circles; the \"New York Times\" described it as \"reframing decades of monopoly law\". In the article, Khan argued that the current American antitrust law framework, which focuses on keeping consumer prices down, cannot account for the anticompetitive effects of platform-based business models such as that of Amazon. She proposed alternative approaches for doing so: \"restoring traditional antitrust and competition policy principles or applying common carrier obligations and duties.\"\n\nAfter completing her studies, Khan worked as director of legal policy at the Open Markets Institute think tank, which was spun off from the New America think tank following pressure from its sponsor Google after Khan and her team criticized Google's market power. As of 2018 Khan is a Legal Fellow at the Federal Trade Commission with Commissioner Rohit Chopra.\n"}
{"id": "2005009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2005009", "title": "List of United States state and local law enforcement agencies", "text": "List of United States state and local law enforcement agencies\n\nThis is a list of U.S. state and local law enforcement agencies — local, regional, special and statewide government agencies (state police) of the U.S. states that provide law enforcement duties, including investigations, prevention and patrol functions. In addition, the Attorney General's office of each state may have their own investigators.\n\nThe Bureau of Justice Statistics conducted a census of state and local law enforcement agencies every four years 1992-2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "15931374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15931374", "title": "Low-flush toilet", "text": "Low-flush toilet\n\nA low-flush toilet (or low-flow toilet or high-efficiency toilet) is a flush toilet that uses significantly less water than a full-flush toilet. Low-flush toilets use or less per flush, as opposed to or more. They came into use in the United States in the 1990s, in response to water conservation concerns. Low-flush toilets include single-flush models and dual-flush toilets, which typically use 1.6 USgpf for the full flush and 1.28 US for a reduced flush.\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency's \"WaterSense\" program provides certification that toilets meet the goal of using less than 1.6 US gallons per flush. Units that meet or exceed this standard can carry the WaterSense sticker. The EPA estimates that the average US home will save US$90 per year, and $2,000 over the lifetime of the toilets. Dry toilets can lead to even more water savings in private homes as they use no water for flushing.\n\nThe early low-flush toilets in the U.S. often had a poor design that required more than one flush to rid the bowl of solid waste, resulting in more water used than a single flush of a standard toilet. In response, U.S. Congressman Joe Knollenberg from Michigan tried to get Congress to repeal the law but was unsuccessful.\n\nIn 2011, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" reported that, while low-flush toilets are estimated to have saved the city of San Francisco 20 million gallons of water per year, the reduction in water volume caused waste sludge to back up in the city sewer pipes, designed expecting a higher ratio of water to solids. The city was attempting to solve this by adding chlorine bleach to the pipes, a proposal that raised environmental objections.\nIn house drain system design, smaller-diameter drain pipes are being used to improve flow by forcing waste to run higher in the pipe and therefore have less tendency to settle along the pipe.\n\nIn 1988 Massachusetts became the first state in the U.S. to mandate the use of low-flush toilets in new construction and remodeling. In 1992 U.S. President George H. W. Bush signed the Energy Policy Act. This law made 1.6 gallons per flush a mandatory federal maximum for new toilets. This law went into effect in January 1, 1994 for residential buildings and January 1, 1997 for commercial buildings. \n\nThe first generation of low-flush toilets were designed like traditional toilets. A valve would open and the water would passively flow into the bowl. The resulting water pressure was often inadequate to carry away waste. In addition to tank-type toilets that \"pull\" waste down, there are also now pressure-assist models, which use water pressure to effectively \"push\" waste.\n\n"}
{"id": "34334126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34334126", "title": "Miniwiz", "text": "Miniwiz\n\nMiniwiz (or MINIWIZ, LTD., ) is an Internationally operating and privately owned company dedicated to upcycling consumer trash and industrial waste. It creates low carbon footprint materials, semi-finished goods and building modules suitable for uses ranging from construction to consumer products. The company was established in 2005.\n\nMiniwiz was created in March 2005 by architect and structural engineer Arthur Huang and Jarvis Liu, an architect engineer. The company was registered and located in Taipei, Taiwan. In 2007, Miniwiz developed the Hymini, a portable wind, solar and handcrank power generator made from recycled ABS. Soon Miniwiz became active first as a green building material consultant, then as a building material manufacturer.\n\nThe World Economic Forum recognised Miniwiz as a Technology Pioneer in 2015 in the category “Energy / Environment / Infrastructure”, highlighting the positive impact that the company’s activity has on the world’s environment and economic growth. At the same time, Miniwiz received much media attention and many awards for its innovations in the recycling and building-material sector.\n\nMiniwiz employs 40 engineers and administration staff. A team of chemical, mechanical, structural and industrial engineers is leading the company's R&D activities, other employees work in areas of architecture, industrial design and engineering.\n\nThe company’s leadership team comprises:\n\nMiniwiz develops and sells materials 100% recycled from waste, but also re-engineers them into various applications. It recycles trash - including electronic, food, agricultural, packaging and automotive waste - into products like cellphone cases, sunglasses, interior applications, and construction materials.\n\nMiniwiz claims that most of post-consumer, agricultural and industrial waste can be recycled into materials that, if enhanced, can be reused to substitute any virgin material. Avoiding the usage of toxic and environment polluting chemical agents, Miniwiz reworks the composition of its recycled materials. Miniwiz developed a set of materials 100% made from trash that combines polymers with Nano-Silica extracted from organic elements of agriculture waste as well as other non-toxic chemical and mechanical reinforcements. Polymers developed by Miniwiz all enter in the category of thermoplastics, ensuring a reduced carbon footprint during the phase of transformation into products and possible re-recycling after usage.\n\nMiniwiz develops modular elements for construction and interior architecture purposes. Made of Miniwiz materials, modules are engineered around the general ideas of:\nBuilding modules developed by Miniwiz include:\n\nMiniwiz designed various pieces of furniture and consumer goods, made of recycled materials. Some of them include Hymini, a wind, solar and hand-crank charger that can be fixed on a bike or one’s arm to recharge electronic items’ batteries using natural sources of power; Review, sunglasses made from recycled post-consumer CDs and DVDs; as well as shelving systems and wine cases made from recycled materials.\n\nEcoARK was the main exhibition hall for the Taipei International Flora Exposition. Commissioned by Far Eastern Group, the nine-story tall pavilion is made of 1.5 million Polli-Bricks, which saved 300 tons of plastic from ending up in landfills. The transparent nature of the Polli-Bricks allows the pavilion to be naturally lit, whilst the air pockets in the help insulate the structure.  Like a giant LEGO building, the use of Polli-Bricks allows the structure to be disassembled and assembled elsewhere. Polli-Brick’s low weight and strong bond of the units make EcoARK both earthquake- and hurricane-resistant. It is featured in an hour-long special by National Geographic Channel’s \"Megastructures:EcoARK\".\n\nMiniwiz worked with SDTI, one of Taiwan's leader in electronic waste recycling, to rethink the recycling process with a more sustainable approach and limit potential health issues and environmental impacts. Miniwiz designed and built SDTI's new factory using the IT waste produced by existing SDTI recycling plants. It is featured in National Geographic special \"Megastructures: Urban Mine\".\n\nConstructed from blocks of a recycled polymer composite made by combining Nike Grind, a premium grade raw material derived from recycled athletic shoes and materials left over from the manufacture of Nike product, with non-toxic, odorless eco-polyurethane. NikeLab stores can be found in six cities around the world: New York, London, Paris, Milan, Shanghai and Hong Kong.\n\nLe Blé d'Or restaurant- Xinzhuang store is located in New Taipei City, Taiwan. Directly related to the theme of the restaurant, the main material developed (entrance walls, ceiling, chairs) is a bio composite of recycled PP injected with hop and wheat husks issued from wastes of beer brewing. In the entrance, the Polli-Ber Bricks wall system set the tone. The semi-opaque leveled surface, with its gold-brownish shade, creates a casual yet sophisticated atmosphere. As for hops chair, its translucent body finish adds an extra layer to the depth of the chair’s aesthetic scope. No glue is incorporated in this design, ensuring maximum recyclability after its life cycle.\n\nIn May 2015 Miniwiz announced the Ecofighter project, which would transform a \"Veri EZ” Experimental Aircraft by replacing its original elements with flexible but resistant recycled materials. This included a material called SRPX - self reinforced polymer matrix. After the Ecofighter has undergone the re-engineering process it was planned to take flight later in 2016, documenting environmental damage and environmental progress across the globe.\n\nIn April 2016 Miniwiz and Philip Morris International (PMI) launched a collaboration during Milan Design Week. A new material made with recycled filters of iQos heatsticks was applied to architect Cesare Leonard’s 1960s furniture designs. The collaboration was presented in Palazzo Clerici courtyard among an installation of iQos tetrapods, an air-purifying, illuminated, self structured retail fixture system, designed to tell the story of iQos. Tetrapods are made with 100% post consumer recycled materials and air purifying amorphous bamboo charcoal and can be entirely re-recycled. A board of Plyfix foam was made with recycled iQos filters or regular cigarette filters.\n\n"}
{"id": "37688059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37688059", "title": "NFPA 1670", "text": "NFPA 1670\n\nNFPA 1670 (\"Standard on Operations and Training for Technical Search and Rescue Incidents\") is a standard published by the National Fire Protection Association.\n\nThis standard shall identify and establish levels of functional capability for conducting operations at technical search and rescue incidents while minimizing threats to rescuers.\n"}
{"id": "12236761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12236761", "title": "National Whistleblower Center", "text": "National Whistleblower Center\n\nThe National Whistleblower Center (NWC) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan, tax exempt, educational and advocacy organization, founded and operated by the employment lawyers Kohn, Kohn & Colapinto, LLP based in Washington, D.C.. Since its founding in 1988, the Center has worked on whistleblower cases relating to environmental protection, nuclear safety, government and corporate accountability, and wildlife crime.\n\nThe stated mission of the NWC is:\nThe National Whistleblower Center (NWC), a non-profit, tax-exempt, non-partisan organization, is the leading whistleblower legal advocacy organization with an almost 30-year history of protecting the right of individuals to report wrongdoing without fear of retaliation. The National Whistleblower Legal Defense and Education Fund (NWLDEF) is a non-profit law firm that provides services to the NWC and whistleblowers from around the world.\n\nNWC provides grassroots advocacy, legal advocacy including \"amicus curiae\" briefs submitted on behalf of whistleblowers, legal referrals to whistleblowers in search of counsel, and drafting and supporting whistleblower legislation such as the Dodd–Frank Act, the Sarbanes–Oxley Act, and the \nWhistleblower Protection Enhancement Act. The NWC opposes efforts to weaken existing laws and pushes for strengthening laws protecting, among others, wildlife whistleblowers.\n\nIn addition to protecting the jobs and careers of numerous whistleblowers, the Center's victories include the following:\n\n\nIn \"Murphy v. IRS\", whistleblower Marrita Murphy (represented by David K. Colapinto, general counsel for the National Whistleblower Center) challenged the constitutionality of taxing compensatory damages in civil rights/whistleblower cases. In August, 2006, a unanimous panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled in favor of Ms. Murphy, and declared unconstitutional a special tax Congress had passed in 1996, which targeted civil rights victims who received compensation for emotional distress damages. However, on July 3, 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed itself on the case, holding that the IRS can tax damage awards based solely on compensating victims who suffer emotional injuries.\n\nBunny Greenhouse, former chief contracting officer of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, testified in June 2005 before a Democratic party public committee. Her testimony included allegations against Halliburton of instances of waste, fraud and other abuses with regards to its operations in the Iraq War. After standing up and \"blowing the whistle,\" she was demoted and removed from her position as the chief civilian contracting authority of the Corps. In July 2011, she won close to $1 million in full restitution of lost wages, compensatory damages, and attorney fees.\n\nIn 1999, former FBI special agent Jane Turner brought to the attention of her management team serious misconduct concerning failures to investigate and prosecute crimes against children in Indian Country and in the Minot, North Dakota community. Turner also reported on misconduct related to the potential criminal theft of property from the 9/11 Ground Zero crime scene in New York City by Minneapolis FBI personnel. Although she was considered one of the best agents working in Indian Country, Turner's twenty-five year career with the FBI was brought to a halt when she was forced from service as retaliation for what FBI management termed as \"tarnishing\" the image of the FBI.\n\nDr. Whitehurst is the Executive Director of the NWC's Forensic Justice Project. Dr. Whitehurst received a Ph.D. in chemistry from Duke University, a J.D. from Georgetown University. He joined the FBI in 1982 and served as a Supervisory Special Agent in the FBI crime lab from 1986-98. He retired after winning the first-ever whistleblower case against the FBI.\n\nDr. Coleman-Adebayo was a senior policy analyst for the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). She founded two employee-rights groups, EPA Employees Against Racial Discrimination and the No FEAR coalition. Through her leadership, the No FEAR Coalition, working closely with Representative James Sensenbrenner, organized a successful grass-roots campaign and obtained overwhelming Congressional support for the \"Notification of Federal Employees Anti-discrimination and Retaliation Act.\" The Act was signed into law by President Bush in 2002.\n\nThe Center has championed the case of one of the highest ranking drug whistleblowers in American history, Dr. Jonathan Fishbein. Dr. Fishbein exposed a series of unethical and improper medical problems within the National Institutes of Health's drug safety clinical trials program. In the wake of Dr. Fishbein's allegations, the United States Department of Health and Human Services enacted sweeping conflict of interest reforms and promised protection of senior ranking employees who blow the whistle. Additionally, drug companies have instituted voluntary reforms in an effort to circumvent congressional acts. Regardless of the scandals that have rocked the drug agency, Congress has still not enacted federal protection for drug whistleblowers.\n\n"}
{"id": "46751002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46751002", "title": "Oberhofgericht Leipzig", "text": "Oberhofgericht Leipzig\n\nThe Oberhofgericht Leipzig (German: Upper Court of Leipzig) was a judicial instance of the Electorate and then the Kingdom of Saxony from the fifteenth century until 1831.\n\nUntil the fifteenth century, the Saxon \"Hofgericht\" (court) was linked to the Electors and moved around the country as he did. In 1483 Elector Ernest and his brother Duke Albert III established the Oberhofgericht, a court with a fixed seat in Leipzig. The court was controlled by both nobles and Burgers and was the first authority established in Saxony to be independent of the Electors and the court.\n\nThe court was founded with authority over all Saxony, but after the Partition of the Wettin lands, it applied only to the Albertine lands (including collateral lines of Saxe-Weissenfels, Saxe-Merseburg and Saxe-Zeitz) from 1483 to 1493 and again from 1547. After 1529 it ceased to have authority over Wittenberg, which came under the jurisdiction of the newly established Electoral Circle (\"Kurkreis\"). From 1493 until 1547, the Oberhofgericht met alternately in Leipzig and Altenburg and had authority over both Albertine and Ernestine lands.\n\nIn 1488 the court received a new assessor. Later the court was raised to a full bench of twelve people. At the beginning of the nineteenth century, six of these seats belonged to the nobility, including the Oberhofgerichters, and six learned men (\"doctores\") with the Professor of law at the University of Leipzig. Both sides were filled out by unpaid, extraordinary assessors.\n\nThe Oberhofgericht was primarily in charge of Private law and had some control over feudal law. On the other hand, administrative law, criminal law and ecclesiastical law remained outside its control. It was the court of first instance only for members of the Wettin princely house, \"schriftsässig\" lords of manors, universities, \"schriftsässig\" cities and the holders of important honours and offices, so only these people had direct access to the court. For the majority of Saxons, it was an appellate court.\n\nIn 1822, the Oberhofgericht lost its role as an appellate court. With the 1831 state reform in the Kingdom of Saxony, a progressive transformation of the judiciary was begun. In the course of this reform, the Oberhofgericht was abolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "34080850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34080850", "title": "Odgers on Libel and Slander", "text": "Odgers on Libel and Slander\n\nA Digest of the Law of Libel and Slander, also known as Odgers on Libel and Slander and Odgers on Libel, is a book on the law of defamation by William Blake Odgers.\n\nAccording to the review of the third edition of this book in volume 16 of \"Law Quarterly Review\", published in 1900, the \"Daily News\" called it \"the best modern book on the law of libel\", the \"Law Times\" called it \"the most scientific of all our law books\" and said that \"in its new dress\" it was \"secure of an appreciative professional welcome\", and the \"Law Journal\" said that \"the general opinion of the profession\" had \"always accorded a high place to\" this \"learned work\" and that the new edition could not \"but enhance that opinion\".\n\nIn 1907, Ernest Arthur Jelf called it \"the most erudite work\" on the subject of criminal libel, and said that it had \"taken a secure place as the leading work\" on the subjects of libel and slander.\n\nIn the poem \"The Hundred Best Books\", Mostyn T. Piggott put this book third after the Bible and the Koran.\n\n"}
{"id": "3577810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3577810", "title": "Omission (law)", "text": "Omission (law)\n\nAn omission is a failure to act, which generally attracts different legal consequences from positive conduct. In the criminal law, an omission will constitute an \"actus reus\" and give rise to liability only when the law imposes a duty to act and the defendant is in breach of that duty. In tort law, similarly, liability will be imposed for an omission only exceptionally, when it can be established that the defendant was under a duty to act.\n\nIn the criminal law, at common law, there was no general duty of care owed to fellow citizens. The traditional view was encapsulated in the example of watching a person drown in shallow water and making no rescue effort, where commentators borrowed the line, \"Thou shalt not kill but needst not strive, officiously, to keep another alive.\" (Arthur Hugh Clough (1819–1861)) in support of the proposition that the failure to act does not attract criminal liability. Nevertheless, such failures might be morally indefensible and so both legislatures and the courts have imposed liability when the failure to act is sufficiently blameworthy to justify criminalisation. Some statutes therefore explicitly state that the \"actus reus\" consists of any relevant \"act or omission\", or use a word that may include both. Hence, the word \"cause\" may be both positive in the sense that the accused proactively injured the victim and negative in that the accused intentionally failed to act knowing that this failure would cause the relevant injury. In the courts, the trend has been to use objective tests to determine whether, in circumstances where there would have been no risk to the accused's health or well-being, the accused should have taken action to prevent a foreseeable injury being sustained by a particular victim or one from a class of potential victims.\n\nSo, returning to the drowning example, the accused would be liable if the victim was a child in a pool with a water depth of six inches, or there was a flotation device nearby that could easily be thrown to the victim, or the accused was carrying a mobile phone that could be used to summon help. However, the law will never penalise someone for not jumping into a raging torrent of water, i.e. the law does not require the potential saver to risk drowning even though the individual might be a lifeguard paid to patrol the given beach, river or pool. No matter what the terms of employment, an employee can never be required to do more than what is reasonable in all the circumstances. In \"R v Dytham\" (1979) QB 722 an on-duty police officer stood and watched a man beaten to death outside a nightclub. He then left without calling for assistance or summoning an ambulance. He was convicted of the common law offence of willful misconduct in public office. Widgery CJ said:\nIn the \"Attorney General's Reference (No 3 of 2003)\" (2004) EWCA Crim 868 police officers arrested a man with head injuries for a breach of the peace because of his abusive and aggressive behaviour towards the hospital staff who were trying to treat him. He later stopped breathing in the police station and all attempts at resuscitation failed. Five police officers, who were involved in the care of A at the time of his death, were charged with manslaughter by gross negligence and misconduct in a public office. It was held that the latter offence required that a public officer was acting as such, that he willfully neglected to perform his duty and/or willfully misconducted himself in a way which amounted to an abuse of the public's trust in the office holder, without reasonable excuse or justification; that whether the misconduct was of a sufficiently serious nature would depend upon the responsibilities of the office and the office holder, the importance of the public objects which they served, the nature and extent of the departure from those responsibilities and the seriousness of the consequences which might follow from the misconduct; that to establish the \"mens rea\" (Latin for \"guilty mind\") of the offence, it had to be proved that the office holder was aware of the duty to act or was subjectively reckless as to the existence of the duty; that the test of recklessness applied both to the question whether in particular circumstances a duty arose at all and to the conduct of the defendant if it did arise; and that the subjective test applied both to reckless indifference to the legality of the act or omission and in relation to the consequences of the act or omission.\n\nThe general rule is that parents, legal guardians, spouses (see \"R v Smith\" (1979) CLR 251 where the wife died after giving birth to a stillborn child, delivered by her husband at home) and anyone who voluntarily agrees to care for another who is dependent because of age, illness or other infirmity, may incur a duty, at least until care can be handed over to someone else. In three cases, the duty was implied:\n\nMisprision of felony was abolished in 1967 but new statutory offences of failure to comply with a duty to disclose terrorist acts or funding under s19(2) Terrorism Act 2000, and failure to disclose knowledge or suspicion of money laundering maintain the tradition. Similarly, the appropriation element in s1 theft may be committed by an act or by keeping when there is a duty to return the property, a deception under s15(4) Theft Act 1968 may be committed by what is not said or done, and \"dishonestly secures\" under s2(1) Theft Act 1978 may also be committed by omission (see \"R v Firth\" (1990) CLR 326 in which the defendant failed to tell the NHS that patients using NHS facilities were in fact private patients thereby obtaining the use of the facilities without payment). One of the simpler examples is the offence of failing to report a road traffic accident (s. 170 Road Traffic Act 1988).\n\nA person who creates a dangerous situation may be under a duty to take reasonable steps to avert that danger. In \"R v Miller\" (1983) 2 AC 161, the defendant was sleeping rough in a building. He fell asleep on his mattress while smoking a cigarette. When he woke, he found that\nthe mattress was smouldering but, instead of calling for help, he simply moved into another room. This allowed the fire to spread. He was convicted under the Criminal Damage Act 1971 for recklessly causing damage by omission. Lord Diplock said:\nBut although this may apply to the generality of offences, \"constructive manslaughter\" is different. \"R v Lowe\" (1973) QB 702, the defendant committed the offence of neglecting his child under s1 Children and Young Persons Act 1933, and this caused the child's death. It was held that there should be a difference between commission and omission. Mere neglect without some foresight of the possibility of harm resulting is not a ground of constructive manslaughter, even if that omission is deliberate. \"R v Khan & Khan\" (1998) CLR 830, confirmed that there is no separate category of manslaughter by omission unless the omission constitutes a breach of duty to act. The defendants supplied a 15-year-old prostitute with twice the amount of heroin likely to be taken by a regular user. The defendants left her unconscious in the flat, returning the next day to find that she had died of the overdose. Had medical assistance been called, the girl would probably not have died. The unlawful act was supplying the drug but the death was caused by the quantity injected by the victim. The trial judge invited jury to consider liability on the basis of the defendants' failure to summon medical assistance. On appeal, the conviction was quashed because the brothers had not accepted a duty to act before she took the heroin.\n\nIn general terms, doctors and hospitals have a duty to provide appropriate care for their patients, and an omission may breach that duty except where an adult patient of ordinary capacity terminates the duty by refusing consent. There is a conflict in public policy. The policy of patient autonomy enshrines a right of self-determination—patients have a right to live their lives how they wish, even if it will damage their health or lead to premature death. Society’s interest is in upholding the concept that all human life is sacred and should be preserved if at all possible. It is now well established that the right of the individual is paramount. In \"Re C (Adult: Refusal of Treatment)\" (1994) 1 WLR 290, a patient diagnosed as a chronic, paranoid schizophrenic refused to allow his gangrenous foot to be amputated. This was permitted because his general capacity showed him capable of understanding the nature, purpose and effect of the life-saving treatment. In \"Re B (Adult: Refusal of Medical Treatment)\" (2002) 2 AER 449 the presumption that an adult has full capacity can be rebutted if:\nMs B was a competent but paralysed, ventilator-dependent patient, and she won the right to have the ventilator turned off. Although the switching-off had to be performed by a doctor, and this is an act intentionally causing death, the law characterises this as an omission because it amounts simply to a cessation of the ongoing treatment. The doctors’ conduct qualifies as lawful \"passive euthanasia\". If the particular doctor invited to omit further treatment has conscientious objections, a doctor who will undertake the omission should be sought. But, in more general cases of necessity, urgent surgery may not be unlawful to preserve life pending any judicial decision. Similarly, when the patient is a minor, emergency treatment to preserve life will not be unlawful (note the power to refer issues of consent to the courts under their wardship jurisdiction).\n\nIn death with dignity situations where a patient is incapable of communicating his wishes, a doctor may be relieved of his duty, as the House of Lords recognised in \"Airedale National Health Service Trust v Bland\" (1993) AC 789. Here a patient who had survived for three years in a persistent vegetative state after suffering irreversible brain damage in the Hillsborough disaster continued to breathe normally, but was kept alive only by being fed through tubes. It was held that treatment could properly be withdrawn in such circumstances, because the best interests of the patient did not involve him being kept alive at all costs. Lord Goff nevertheless drew a fundamental distinction between acts and omissions in this context:\n\nIn \"R v Pittwood (1902)\", the defendant was convicted of gross negligence manslaughter after he failed to close the gate on a level crossing as he was contracted to do. This caused a train to collide with a hay cart, and the court ruled that \"a man might incur criminal liability from a duty arising out of contract.\"\n\nFollowing the Nuremberg Trials international law developed the concept of command responsibility. It holds that military commanders are imposed with individual responsibility for war crimes, committed by forces under their effective command and control, they failed to prevent or adequately prosecute, if they:\n\nIn the law of negligence, if the defendant's conduct took the form of an omission, rather than a positive act, then it will be more difficult to establish that she owed a duty of care to the plaintiff. The rationale is that a positive duty is more onerous to fulfill than a negative duty, and therefore limits more severely the liberty of the duty-bearer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "341254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341254", "title": "Overtime", "text": "Overtime\n\nOvertime is the amount of time someone works beyond \"normal working hours\". The term is also used for the pay received for this time. Normal hours may be determined in several ways:\n\nMost nations have overtime labour laws designed to dissuade or prevent employers from forcing their employees to work excessively long hours (such as the situation in the textile mills in the 1920s). These laws may take into account other considerations than humanitarian concerns, such as preserving the health of workers so that they may continue to be productive, or increasing the overall level of employment in the economy. One common approach to regulating overtime is to require employers to pay workers at a higher hourly rate for overtime work. Companies may choose to pay workers higher overtime pay even if not obliged to do so by law, particularly if they believe that they face a backward bending supply curve of labour.\n\nOvertime pay rates can cause workers to work longer hours than they would at a flat hourly rate. Overtime laws, attitudes toward overtime and hours of work vary greatly from country to country and between various sectors.\n\n\"Time off in lieu\"; \"compensatory time\"; or \"comp time\" refers to a type of work schedule arrangement that allows (or requires) workers to take time off instead of, or in addition to, receiving overtime pay. A worker may receive overtime pay plus equal time off for each hour worked on certain agreed days, such as public holidays.\n\nIn the United States, such arrangements are currently legal in the public sector but not in the private sector.\n\nFor example, non-exempt workers must receive at least one and one half times their normal hourly wage for every hour worked beyond 40 hours in a work week. For example, workers who clock 48 hours in one week would receive the pay equivalent to 52 hours of work (40 hours + 8 hours at 1.5 times the normal hourly wage). With comp time, the worker could (or would have to) forgo the 12 hours of overtime pay and instead take 8 paid hours off at some future date.\n\nIn some other jurisdictions, such as Canada, employers might be required to pay the overtime at the higher rate (e.g. 1.5 times the normal rate), but also be allowed to require time off in lieu at the normal rate. Thus, an employee might work 48 hours in one week, and 32 hours the next week (assuming over 40 hours is overtime), and be paid an extra amount equivalent to 4 hours work (8 multiplied by 0.5).\n\nIn Australia, such arrangements both in the private and public sector are common.\n\nIn some cases, particularly when employees are represented by a labour union, overtime may be paid at a higher rate than 1.5 times the hourly pay. In some factories, for example, if workers are required to work on a Sunday, they may be paid twice their regular rate (i.e., \"double time\").\n\nDirectives issued by the European Union must be incorporated into law by member states.\n\nDirectives 93/104/EC (1993), 2000/34/EC (2000), which limited working hours, were consolidated into 2003/88/EC (2003). Employers and employees can agree to opt out, under certain circumstances.\n\nThe directives require:\n\nThe directives apply to:\n\nExemptions:\n\nIn Japan the of 1947 provides for an eight-hour work day and 40-hour workweek with at least one day off per week. The act requires a premium of at least 25% over the ordinary hourly wage for any overtime work, 35% for any work on prescribed off days, and an additional 25% for any work between 10 pm and 5 am. Employers must enter into an overtime agreement with a labour representative prior to any overtime work by employees, and this agreement must stipulate to the maximum number of overtime hours that an employee may work, which may be no more than 15 hours per week, 45 hours per month and 360 hours per year.\n\nIn the United States the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 applies to employees in industries engaged in or producing goods for interstate commerce. The FLSA establishes a standard work week of 40 hours for certain kinds of workers, and mandates payment for overtime hours to those workers of one and one-half times the workers' normal rate of pay for any time worked above 40 hours. \n\nThe law creates two broad categories of employees, \n\nEmployers are not required to pay exempt employees overtime but must do so for non-exempt employees. \n\nIndependent contractors are not considered employees and therefore are not protected by the FLSA. Several factors determine whether a worker is an employee, who might be entitled to overtime compensation, or an independent contractor, who would not be so entitled. The employment agreement stating that a party is an independent contractor does not make it necessarily so. The nature of a job determines whether an employee is entitled to overtime pay, not employment status or the field of work.\nClasses of workers who are exempt from the regulation include \n\nTo qualify as an administrative, professional, or executive employee and therefore not be entitled to overtime, three tests must be passed based on salary basis, duties, and salary level. The tests vary between administrative, professional, and executive employees based on their different duties and salary levels. There are many other classes of workers who may be exempt including outside salespeople, certain agricultural employees, certain live-in employees, and certain transportation employees. Employees can neither waive their FLSA protections nor abridge them by contract.\n\nAn employer may not retaliate against an employee for filing a complaint or instituting a proceeding based on the FLSA. An employer that engages in any form of verifiable retaliation would be liable under the Fair Labor Standards Act Section 216(b) for equitable relief including reinstatement, promotion, payment of lost wages, and payment of liquidated damages. Acts of retaliation include terminating employment, disrupting the workplace, threats, acts of physical violence, and constructive discharge.\n\nOut of approximately 120 million American workers, nearly 50 million are exempt from overtime laws (US Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division, 1998). In 2004, the United States was 7th out of 24 OECD countries in terms of annual working hours per worker. (See Working time for a complete listing.) In 2015, the United States Department of Labor proposed dramatic changes to certain exemptions from federal minimum wage and overtime requirements. These changes are anticipated to take effect in July 2016, but as of January 2016, still are pending final approval. Proposed changes include: setting the minimum salary level required for exemption for full-time salaried workers at $970 per week, or $50,440 annually (an increase from the current $455 per week, or $23,660 annually) Increasing the total annual compensation required to exempt highly compensated employees to $122,148 annually (from the current $100,000 annually).\n\nOn August 23, 2004, President George W. Bush and the Department of Labor proposed changes to regulations governing implementation of the law. According to one study, the changes would have had significant impact on the number of workers covered by overtime laws and have exempted several million additional workers. The Bush administration maintained that the practical impact on working Americans would be minimal and that the changes would help clarify an outdated regulation. In particular, the new rules would have allowed more companies to offer flextime to their workers in lieu of overtime. The definition of \"exempt employees\" (ineligible for overtime) is regularly tested in the courts. A recent case is Encino Motorcars v. Navarro, which addresses the question of whether automobile dealer service advisors are eligible for overtime.\n\nA company may harm themselves by docking a salaried employee for disciplinary reasons.\n<br>\nUber (company) is an example of a company that, in various jurisdictions, has encountered various legal problems regarding exemptions. The New York Times noted in 2017 that \"Despite their appeal, the apps have faced a wave of criticism, including concerns over wheelchair accessibility and driver pay.\"\n\nThe state of California's overtime laws differ from federal overtime laws in many respects, and they involve overlapping statutes, regulations, and precedents that govern the compensation of employees in California. \nCalifornia employers must comply with both, since there are two sources of applicable law (federal and state).\n\nIn California, based on California Labor Code 1171, only an employment relationship is required for overtime rules to apply. Under the California Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Orders, an \"employer\" is \"any person ... who directly or indirectly, or through an agent or any other person, employs or exercises control over wages, hours, or working conditions of any person.\" Under the California Labor Code, an \"employee\" is \"[any] person, including aliens and minors, rendering actual service in any business for an employer, whether gratuitously or for wages or pay, whether the wages or pay are measured by the standard of time, piece, task, commission, or other method of calculation, and whether the service is rendered on a commission, concessionaire, or other basis.\" \n\nIndependent contractors are not employees covered by overtime laws, so it is important to determine if a worker is an independent contractor or an employee. Under California law, workers are generally presumed to be employees, not Independent contractors. The proper classification of individuals as Independent contractors must, therefore, pass one or more of the various multi-part tests for determining eligibility.\n\nForemost, pursuant to California Labor Code Section 510, non-exempt employees must be compensated at one and a half times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of eight hours in a workday, 40 hours in a workweek and the first eight hours of a seventh consecutive workday. Employees in California are entitled to double-time for working more than twelve hour workdays or more than eight hours on the seventh consecutive workday of a single workweek. Under federal law there are only 40 hour weekly overtime limits. This eight hour overtime limit in California frequently gives rise to wage-and-hour litigation for violations of state, but not federal, labour laws.\n\nFor example, \"comp time\" schemes, where employers tell employees that since they worked 10 hours on Monday they can work 6 hours on Tuesday, are illegal because even though the employees are not working more than 40 hours for the purposes of overtime compensation under federal law, they are working more than 8 hours for purposes of California overtime law and rounding the 6- and 10-hour workdays to two 8-hour workdays would cheat the employee out of two hours of overtime pay.\n\nPerhaps the biggest difference between California and federal overtime law relates to the administrative exemption's \"primarily engaged\" in duties that meet the test for the exemption requirement, such as duties that involve exercising independent discretion and judgment as set forth in the controversial Order No. 4. Whereas under the Fair Labor Standards Act \"primarily engaged\" does not necessarily mean at least half, under California wage-and-hour laws, less than half of exempt duties automatically eliminates the overtime exemption.\n\nCalifornia's Labor Code Section 510 was amended and Section 511.5 added in 2016 pursuant to the California Workplace Flexibility Act of 2016. Pursuant to these changes, non-exempt workers have additional options to agree to work beyond eight hours in a workday without triggering an overtime pay obligation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4363504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4363504", "title": "Philippine trademark law", "text": "Philippine trademark law\n\nR.A. 8293, otherwise known as the Intellectual Property Code, defines a trademark as “any visible sign capable of distinguishing goods”. Early jurisprudence has taken it to mean “a sign, device or mark by which the articles produced or dealt in by a particular person or organization are distinguished or distinguishable from those produced or dealt in by others, and must be affixed to goods or articles”.\n\nOn September 27, 1965, the Philippines adopted pertinent provisions of the Lisbon Act of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property by reference as part of the Intellectual Property Code. As a multilateral treaty, the Paris Convention seeks to “protect industrial property … and at the same time repress unfair competition”. It also “provides for the protection of internationally well-known marks” and “applications claiming the priority date of an earlier-filed application in Member Countries”.\nAnother treaty pertinent to intellectual property rights, particularly trademarks, is the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO), which the Philippines ratified on December 16, 1994, and which treaty took effect only on January 1, 1995. Annexed to this is the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) which aims to “reduce distortions … in international trade … promote effective and adequate protection of intellectual property rights…. [and] adhere to minimum standards of protection set by several conventions... The TRIPS Agreement seeks to grant adequate protection of intellectual property rights by creating a favorable economic environment to encourage the inflow of foreign investments, and strengthening the multilateral trading system to bring about economic, cultural, and technological independence.”\n\nThe first trademark law in place in the Philippines was that which Queen Maria Cristina of Spain promulgated on October 26, 1888. This law accorded trademark rights to the person who registered first. \n\nThis law was replaced on March 6, 1903 by Act No. 666 or the Trademark and Trade Name Law of the Philippine Islands, which abandoned prior registration in favor of actual use of the mark as the basis for trademark rights. The Philippines, being then a territory of the United States, incorporated into Act 666 principles upon which the U.S. trademark law was founded on. \n\nRepublic Act No. 166 repealed Act 666 in 1946, and was itself expressly repealed on January 1, 1998 when Republic Act No. 8293 was enacted in compliance with the WTO TRIPS Agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "18935456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935456", "title": "Philosophy of copyright", "text": "Philosophy of copyright\n\nThe philosophy of copyright considers philosophical issues linked to copyright policy, and other jurisprudential problems that arise in legal systems' interpretation and application of copyright law.\n\nOne debate concerns the purpose of copyright. Some take the approach of looking for coherent \"justifications\" of established copyright systems, while others start with general ethical theories, such as utilitarianism and try to analyse policy through that lens. Another approach denies the meaningfulness of any ethical justification for existing copyright law, viewing it simply as a result (and perhaps an undesirable result) of political processes.\n\nAnother widely debated issue is the relationship between copyrights and other forms of \"intellectual property\", and material property. Most scholars of copyright agree that it can be called a kind of property, because it involves the exclusion of others from something. But there is disagreement about the extent to which that fact should allow the transportation of other beliefs and intuitions about material possessions.\n\nThere are many other philosophical questions which arise in the jurisprudence of copyright. They include such problems as determining when one work is \"derived\" from another, or deciding when information has been placed in a \"tangible\" or \"material\" form.\n\nLegal scholars often approach copyright in search of a coherent ethical justification for its existence and character. This approach may seem to be backwards—it might make more sense to start with an objective and then examine the law against it—but it is widely practised. Thus, the normative or ethical theories that might naively be regarded as tests for copyright law to pass are often called \"justifications\" of it. Justifications for copyright can generally be approximated into two groups: deontological or consequentialist. Deontological justifications for copyright seek to justify copyright as a matter of rights or duty; they seek to assert a justification for copyright (or intellectual property more generally) on the basis that it is morally correct to do so. Contrariwise, consequentialist theories of copyright seek to justify or criticise copyright protection based on the consequences of that protection, by asserting or providing evidence that the protection of copyright produces some desirable effect. Examples of such theories include incentives theories that view intellectual property as a necessary way of incentivising the creation of new creative works.\n\nNatural rights are linked to the logic of property. John Locke is often cited as an authority, although it is not clear that Locke actually viewed copyright as a natural right. \n\nProponents of copyright and patent laws believe that morality supports their stance.\n\nMany economists believe that, From this perspective, the objective of copyright law is primarily to balance the public benefits that can arise from the widespread circulation, use and reuse of a copyright work with the need to provide protection, incentive and reward to the creator or owner of the copyright by granting a limited monopoly to exploit the copyright to that body or individual.\n\nConsequentialist theories of copyright hold that we should have the laws that will produce the 'best' results for society. The most common consequentialist position is utilitarianism, which defines the 'best' situations to be those in which people are in total as happy or fulfilled as possible. Economists' analyses of copyright tend to follow this philosophical approach.\n\nA related class of theories is called instrumentalism; it holds that copyright law must exist for clear, coherent and necessary purposes, without being so strict as to require that it maximise some kind of 'goodness' in its outcome.\n\nSome copyright scholars believe that, regardless of contemporary advances in technology, copyright remains the fundamental way by which authors, sculptors, artists, musicians and others can fund the creation of new works, and that without a significant period of legal protection of their future income, many valuable books and artworks would not be created. They argue that the public interest is best served by repeated extension of copyright terms to encompass multiple generations beyond the copyright holder's life, as this increases the present value of the copyright, encouraging the creation for new works and making additional investments in older works (for example, the restoration of old movies) economically viable.\nAuthors' heirs continue to profit if copyrights are enforced post-death and this provides a substantial incentive for continued fresh work even as authors age.\n\nThe modern, market-driven copyright system provides authors with independent financing (through royalties). Without a feasible way to recoup investments of creative time through copyright, there would be little economic incentive to produce and works would need to be motivated by a desire for fame from already affluent authors or those able to obtain patronage (with associated constraints on independence). Proponents of copyright dispute that copyright erodes precepts for creators to be able to build on published expression pointing to concepts such as Scènes à faire and Idea-expression divide. Copyright only protects the artist's expression of his/her work and not the ideas, systems, or factual information conveyed in it and thus artists are free to get ideas from copyrighted works.\n\nDefenders of the present system of strong copyrights argue that it has been largely successful in financing the creation and distribution of a wide variety of works, especially those requiring significant labor and capital. Moderate scholars seem to support that view while recognizing the need for exceptions and limitations, such as the fair use doctrine. Notably, a substantial portion of the current U.S. Copyright Act (sections 107–120) is devoted to such exceptions and limitations.\n\nArticle One of the United States Constitution authorizes Congress to \"promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries\".\n\nMany authors thought that this wording would actually require U.S. copyright laws to serve the purpose of \"promoting the progress of science and useful arts\". \n\nIn the US in 2003 controversial changes implemented by the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act extending the length of copyright under U.S. copyright law by 20 years were challenged in the United States Supreme Court. However, the Court, in the case called Eldred v. Ashcroft, held, \"inter alia\", that in placing existing and future copyrights in parity in the CTEA, Congress acted within its authority and did not transgress constitutional limitations. Other jurisdictions have enacted legislation to provide for similar extensions of the copyright term.\n\nCritics of copyright as a whole fall broadly into two categories: Those who assert that the very concept of copyright has never benefited society, and has always served simply to enrich a few at the expense of creativity; and those who assert that the existing copyright regime must be reformed to maintain its relevance in the new Information society. The French \"droit d'auteur\" (\"Rights of the Author\"), which influenced the 1886 Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, must also be noted as a significant alternative to the usual Anglo-Saxon concept of copyright.\n\nAmong the latter group, there are also some who continue to agree with copyright as a way to grant authors rights, but feel that it \"outlives its welcome\" by granting copyright for too long (e.g., far beyond the lifetime of the author), and is therefore of little direct benefit to him or her. The prolongation of copyright term is commonly attributed to effective corporate lobbying, based on a desire for the continuance of a profitable monopoly. In the US, this is often phrased as a conspiracy to 'control the Mouse' (meaning Mickey Mouse, a trademarked character controlled by the Disney Company whose early works would have moved into the public domain save for such an extension).\n\nTo many critics, the general problem is that the current (international) copyright system undermines its own goal. The concepts of the public domain and the intrinsic freedom of information are necessary precepts for creators to be able to build on published expression. But these are gradually being eroded, as copyright terms are repeatedly extended to last beyond the lifetime of the audience which experienced and knows of the original work.\n\nAnother effect of the repeated extension of copyright term is that current authors are shielded from competition from a wide public domain: by the time current works enter the public domain, they will almost always have become obsolete. This reduces the risk of commoditization of topical non-fiction. Out-of-copyright publishing, such as classic literature where margins are very low, generally offers only the best of each genre.\n\nOpposition to current copyright practice also relates to the non-observance of the principal requirement of the original Queen Anne Act, which specified that for a work to obtain copyright a copy had to be deposited in a library of record, so that unlimited copies could be made when the copyright expired. This was observed for many years but was later successfully opposed by the motion picture industry, which refused to provide copies of their films, resulting in the loss of many early films. Civilization experiences a similar loss of ancient documents from being held in private collections until they rot.\n\nThe recent success of free software projects such as GNU/Linux, Mozilla Firefox, and the Apache web server has demonstrated that quality works can be created even in the absence of a copyright-enforced monopoly rent. These products use copyright to enforce their license terms, which are designed to ensure the free nature of the work, rather than securing exclusive rights for the holder for monetary gain. Such licenses include copyleft, free software, and open source licenses.\n\nEven in more traditional forms such as prose, some authors, such as Cory Doctorow, retain the copyright to their work but license it for free distribution (for example under a Creative Commons license). This has the benefit of providing a structured scheme under which authors can loosen some of the barriers that copyright imposes on others, allowing them to partially contribute the work to the community (in the form of giving a general grant on copying, reproduction, use or adaptation subject to certain conditions) while retaining other exclusive rights they hold in it.\n\nCopyright can also be used to stifle political criticism. For example, in the US the contents of talk shows and similar programs are covered by copyright. Robert Greenwald, a director of \"Uncovered: The Whole Truth About the Iraq War\" documentary was refused the right to use a clip of a George W. Bush interview from NBC's \"Meet the Press\". Although the fair use provisions of statute and common law may apply in such cases, the risks of loss in court should there be a lawsuit and pressure from insurance companies, who regard use of almost anything (e.g., three words forming the opening of a song,) without permission as too risky, usually precludes use of materials without explicit permission, and so without a license fee.\n\nCopyright is also conceived by some to be an artificial barrier in that \"expressions\" could be freely exchanged between individuals and groups if there were no copyright or other legal restrictions preventing. Such people believe that as the state does not necessarily possess the moral authority to enact copyright laws, individuals may vary in their observation of such laws. Others disagree, believing that copyright (which in the United States system, for instance, arises from provisions in the U.S. Constitution), has made and continues to make a valuable even essential contribution to the creation and dissemination of works. They also point out the social dangers inherent in the view that each individual is entitled to judge the \"moral authority\" of laws and to observe them or not according to individual judgments.\n\nCopyright concepts are under challenge in the modern era, primarily from the increasing use of peer-to-peer file sharing. Major copyright holders, such as the major record labels and the movie industry, blame the ease of copying for their decreasing profits. Alternative explanations have been put forward, such as poor product content and excessive license charges.\n\nIn the United States public interest groups, major corporations and the like, are entering the public education system to teach the curriculum from their perspectives. The lobbying group for the MPAA provide a curriculum entitled \"What's the Diff?\" taught by a group of volunteers called Junior Achievement. The Business Software Alliance also has their own curriculum program called \"Play it Cybersafe\", which is distributed to school children through a magazine called \"The Weekly Reader\". The American Librarian Association released their own curriculum for librarians that was distributed in the winter of 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23375918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375918", "title": "Shelter rule", "text": "Shelter rule\n\nThe shelter rule is a doctrine in the common law of property under which a grantee who has received an interest in property from a bona fide purchaser will also be protected as a bona fide purchaser, even if the grantee would not legally qualify for this status. The grantee is \"sheltered\" from other claims by the grantor's status as an actual bona fide purchaser.\n\nThis rule comes into play in situations under a number of circumstances. For example, where a bad actor agrees to convey the same real property to multiple other parties. For example, if Oscar conveys Blackacre by deed to Andrew on Monday; before Andrew records the conveyance, Oscar conveys Blackacre to Bob, who is a bona fide purchaser and who is unaware of Oscar's previous conveyance of the same property. Bob then conveys Blackacre to Charles, but before the conveyance, Andrew notifies Charles of the deed conveyed from Oscar to Andrew. Since Charles has notice of the prior conveyance, Charles does not qualify to be a bona fide purchaser. However, under the shelter rule, Charles will receive the same treatment as Bob, and will prevail over Andrew in a legal contest over the ownership of Blackacre.\n\nThe rule has several purposes. One is to allow a bona fide purchaser, who is entitled to hold and enjoy the property, to have a congruent entitlement to sell that property. Another is to prevent the use of the property from being held up in litigation.\n\nThere are two exceptions to the shelter rule:\n\nThe shelter rule also applies to the transfer of negotiable instruments. If the recipient of a negotiable interest is a donee (that is, a person who receives by gift), that person would generally not have the rights of a holder in due course - that is, a person who received the instrument for value and without notice of other claims. However, if the gift was received from a qualifying holder in due course of the same instrument, the shelter rule gives the donee the right to recover on the instrument.\n"}
{"id": "58065997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58065997", "title": "Shooting of Markeis McGlockton", "text": "Shooting of Markeis McGlockton\n\nOn July 19, 2018, in Clearwater, Florida, United States, Michael Drejka fatally shot Markeis McGlockton. Prior to the shooting, Drejka confronted McGlockton's girlfriend, Britany Jacobs, for using a handicapped parking space without a permit at a local convenience store. McGlockton came out of the store and assaulted Drejka by shoving him to the ground. At this point, Drejka drew his firearm and shot McGlockton, who then took off running. McGlockton later died from his injuries at a local hospital.\n\nMcGlockton was a 28-year-old African American who were present at the scene. Drejka, a 47-year-old Caucasian man, was not initially charged for the killing by the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office; Sheriff Bob Gualtieri cited Florida's stand-your-ground law as the reason. The investigation was handed over to the Sixth Judicial Circuit Court of Florida State Attorney Bernie McCabe, who charged Drejka with one count of manslaughter on August 13, 2018. Drejka pleaded not guilty to the charge.\n\nMarkeis Deon McGlockton (March 28, 1990 – July 19, 2018) grew up in Clearwater, Florida and formerly lived in South St. Petersburg, Florida. Within Pinellas County Schools, McGlockton attended four elementary schools; attended middle school in St. Petersburg; and attended Boca Ciega High School but later dropped out. In 2009, McGlockton met Britany Jacobs through a friend while she was a student at Dunedin High School. The couple had three children together.\n\nMcGlockton had a criminal record that included convictions of resisting arrest with violence and drug possession; and arrests for aggravated battery, fleeing and eluding and petit theft. He was also accused of violence against his former girlfriend and his cousin in two separate incidents.\n\nMcGlockton formerly worked at a Burger King, during which his route required him to walk on foot more than three miles from his apartment to the restaurant. He later worked nights as a clerk at a 7-Eleven until his death. While Jacobs worked in the daytime as a certified nursing assistant, McGlockton was a stay-at-home dad for their children. He was also an aspiring rapper and artist who could draw and paint.\n\nMichael Andrew Drejka (born August 5, 1970) originally lived in Delaware. He moved to Pinellas County, Florida in 2010 and is married. \n\nDrejka has a number of driving violations including speeding, running red lights, driving without vehicle insurance, and motorcycling without an endorsement. \nDrejka has been named the accused aggressor in four prior road incidents ranging from 2012 to 2018. In three of these cases, Drejka has been accused of threatening drivers with a gun; Drejka has denied these allegations. \n\nOn the afternoon of July 19, 2018, McGlockton picked up Jacobs from her employer with their three children in the vehicle, a 2016 Chrysler 2000. Jacobs took over the wheel and drove her family to the Circle A Food Store so McGlockton could buy snacks for their children. Jacobs parked the vehicle in the store's only handicapped parking space, located on the side of the building. Video surveillance shows there were other spaces available at the time of the visit, though Jacobs later told prosecutors that two trucks blocked her from accessing the other spaces. McGlockton went into the store with their five-year-old son, Markeis Jr. While Jacobs was sitting inside the vehicle, Drejka pulled up in his Toyota 4-Runner, parking perpendicular to her. Drejka got out of his truck and searched for a disabled parking permit on Jacobs' vehicle. Britany Jacobs claimed that Drejka then began yelling and motioning at her; she had the other two children in the car. Jacobs says that she then told Drejka to mind his own business. Another man who witnessed the argument walked into the store to report it. McGlockton had not yet finished checking out when he was informed of the situation. Around 3:30 p.m., McGlockton walked out of the store and approached Drejka.. McGlockton then shoved Drejka to the ground. About four seconds later, Drejka pulled out a 40-caliber Glock and shot a single round at McGlockton. Although the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office stated McGlockton was shot in the chest, Jacobs claimed the bullet struck McGlockton in the left side of the abdomen. After being shot, McGlockton ran back into the store and collapsed in front of Markeis Jr. Paramedics rushed McGlockton to Morton Plant Hospital, where he was pronounced deceased at 4:04 p.m.\n\nThe shooting occurred at Circle A Food Store, located on Sunset Point Road in Clearwater. The convenience store has been locally owned by Ali Salous for twenty years. He was not present in the store at the time of the shooting. Salous previously had issues with Drejka at his business. Both Drejka and McGlockton were regular customers at the store. A month after the shooting, Salous said the incident hurt the business, but added the public should not be afraid simply because of Drejka's actions. After Drejka was released from jail on bond, Salous stated that Drejka was banned from the property.\n\nThe incident took place in an unincorporated area of Clearwater, falling outside the local police department's jurisdiction; thus the investigation was conducted by the Pinellas County Sheriff's Office, rather than the Clearwater Police Department.\n\nFollowing the shooting, Drejka reportedly put the gun in his SUV as he waited for law enforcement to arrive. Drejka cooperated with deputies on the scene, and was transported to the North District Station in nearby Dunedin, Florida for further questioning by detectives. Deputies took possession of his gun.\n\nWhile being questioned by detectives, Drejka stated he was in fear of his life and acted in self-defense when he shot McGlockton. He claimed they did not exchange words with each other and that he thought McGlockton twitched toward him before he fired his gun. Drejka was asked to re-enact the incident, with a detective filling in for McGlockton.\n\nIn his interview, Drejka said he would not have shot at McGlockton if he stayed still or retreated. According to Jacobs' interview she refused to move her car from the handicap parking space because \"Dude, uh, no. I don’t know you, so, you know, leave me alone\". According to Jacobs' interview McGlockton said \"Stay away from my girl\" as he shoved Drejka to the ground. Drejka in his interview said that he carried a gun since he was 22, and in TV interview said that handicapped parking spaces \"have always touched a nerve\" since his mother in law and high school sweetheart used handicapped parking spaces.\n\nOn July 20, 2018, the day after the shooting, Sheriff Bob Gualtieri held a 30-minute press conference in which he announced that his agency would not charge Drejka for the shooting death of McGlockton. At the press conference, Gualtieri walked through the events leading up to the shooting and revealed the surveillance video to the media. He started by saying \"I'm a big believer in this adage that just because you can, doesn't mean you should. This case may be an example of that. Nonetheless, we don't build it, we just sail it. What I mean by that is: I don't make the law, I enforce the law.\" Gualtieri cited Florida Statute 776.032 and stated that his office was precluded from making an arrest, due to Drejka's claim of self-defense through Florida's stand-your-ground law. Gualtieri said the investigation would continue before being turned over to the local state attorney's office.\n\nIn a second 55-minute press conference on July 31, Gualtieri defended his decision not to arrest Drejka. The Pinellas County Ministerial Alliance and NAACP Clearwater were scheduled to stand with Gualtieri during this press conference, but backed out a half hour before it began.\n\nOn August 1, 2018, Sheriff Gualtieri announced that the investigation had been turned over to State Attorney Bernie McCabe for review. The following day, the state attorney said there was no time frame for how long it would take to complete the investigation.\n\nOn August 10, Detective George Moffett sent a \"capias\" request to State Attorney McCabe recommending charges of manslaughter with a firearm against Drejka. Moffett cited three drivers who alleged that Drejka threatened them with a gun in past. Drejka was formally charged with a single count of manslaughter on August 13. Drejka pleaded not guilty to the charge on August 17.\n\nDeputies interviewed multiple witnesses at the scene of the shooting. Two 9-1-1 calls from witnesses were released by the Pinellas County Regional 911 Center on August 16. The full police report with witness statements are not available to the public from Pinellas County Sheriff's Office.\n\nWithin a day of the shooting, Drejka had a sign posted outside his home that read: \"NO COMMENT\". Drejka refused to speak to the press for over a month following the shooting; until late-August his only public account of events came from statements he made while being questioned by detectives.\n\nOn August 31, 2018, Drejka sat down with WTSP reporter Reginald Roundtree for a jailhouse interview. Early in the interview, Drejka spoke about his early life and work profession; the financial and physical hardships he and his wife are facing; and threats made to them immediately after the shooting. Regarding McGlockton's shove, Drejka said he thought he was tackled or hit by something. Drejka stated he was in fear of his life and felt that he followed the stand-your-ground law.\n\nDrejka said abuse of handicapped parking spaces is a sensitive issue to him, describing his mother in law and deceased high school girlfriend as handicapped, \"My whole life has always been looking for a handicapped parking spot, and it's always touched a nerve with me because of the way they're abused and used.\" Drejka denied he was a racist. While Drejka wouldn't change his actions, he did apologize for the results of actions to the McGlockton's family.\n\nOn July 31, Color of Change opened a state-level political action committee as part of an effort to repeal Stand-Your-Ground in Florida. The organization also created an online petition directed to State Attorney Bernie McCabe, calling for the arrest of Michael Drejka. The petition received over 45,000 signatures when Drejka was charged with manslaughter. \n\nWhile advocating in favor of Florida Amendment 4 in 2018, Marissa Alexander mentioned the McGlockton case as an example of the state's criminal justice issues. \n\nOn July 27, Democratic Party U.S. Senator Bill Nelson from Florida sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights John M. Gore, requesting the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division Criminal Section to open an investigation into the shooting death of McGlockton. The letter was signed by Nelson and four fellow Democratic lawmakers: Senators Kamala Harris from California and Cory Booker from New Jersey; and U.S. Representatives Charlie Crist and Alcee Hastings, who both represent Florida in the 13th district and 20th district, respectively. The NAACP, along with its Florida State Conference and Clearwater/Upper Pinellas County Branch, called for a DOJ investigation as well.\n\nSheriff Gualtieri received bipartisan criticism over his interpretation of Stand-Your-Ground and his decision to not arrest Drejka. Marion Hammer, former president and lobbyist for the National Rifle Association, stated that nothing in the law prevents a sheriff from making an arrest based on probable cause. Republican Party Florida State Senators Dennis Baxley and Rob Bradley, along with Florida State Representative Bobby Payne, were also critical of Gualtieri's assertion. Five Democratic gubernatorial candidates disagreed with Sheriff Gualtieri's decision, as did the Republican front-runner. The Pinellas County Green Party issued a statement, telling Gualtieri to \"get the hell out of Pinellas!\"\n\nWithin a week of the shooting, protesters created chants and T-shirts calling for Gualtieri's removal from office. During an August 5 rally in Clearwater, Al Sharpton suggested Gualtieri to \"lock him (Drejka) up or give up your badge.” In a statement made after Drejka was charged by the State Attorney's Office, Black Lives Matter pledged to \"continue examining the racist policies and practices of Sheriff Gualteri and the entire structure that allows for this type of vigilantism to flourish.\"\n\nThe shooting death of McGlockton prompted responses from politicians. Following Drejka's arrest, \"Tampa Bay Times\" reported the shooting had become politicized. \n\nCynthia McKinney, former Democratic U.S. Representative from Georgia and 2008 presidential nominee of the Green Party, asked her followers on Twitter: \"What does this look like to you?\" \n\nThe shooting occurred a month before the primary elections held in Florida on August 28. General elections were held on November 6. Candidates in statewide and local elections expressed their thoughts on the shooting, with some outlining their positions on stand-your-ground laws. \n\nCongressman Charlie Crist, who represents the district where the incident took place, reacted on Twitter: \"This law is unjust and needs to be repealed. Something is terribly wrong if no charges can be filed in this situation.\" Crist briefly addressed the shooting at a Clearwater town hall meeting on July 29, noting his call for a federal investigation into McGlockton's death. \n\nDuring the primary race for U.S. Senator of Florida, outgoing Republican Governor Rick Scott expressed sorrow for the family of McGlockton while campaigning at an event in Lakeland, Florida; he placed emphasis on Florida's crime rate, which he claimed to be at a 47-year low. During his governorship, Scott was criticized for his inaction regarding stand-your-ground cases. Incumbent Democratic Senator Bill Nelson led a call for a federal investigation into the shooting, but did not immediately comment on SYG during this election cycle. \n\nDuring the primary race for Governor of Florida, five major Democratic candidates— Andrew Gillum, Chris King, Gwen Graham, Jeff Greene and Philip Levine— pledged to repeal SYG if they were elected governor. King spoke about his opposition to the law on July 23. At a press conference in Clearwater on July 26, King said he believed race was a factor in the killing. King was in attendance at McGlockton's funeral. Gillum addressed the shooting at length during a town hall meeting in Clearwater on July 29. The following day, Gillum called on Governor Scott to declare a state of emergency and suspend SYG until the Florida Legislature can offer clarity on how and when the law should be applied. On the morning of August 5, Al Sharpton interviewed Greene and Gillum about the case on \"PoliticsNation\", prior to Sharpton's arrival in Clearwater for a McGlockton rally that afternoon. The campaigns of Greene, Levine, Gillum, Graham and King announced their intentions to attend the rally led by Sharpton. The five candidates spoke at the event and pledged to repeal SYG. On August 8, Gillum participated in a protest at Governor Scott's office in Tallahassee, where he staged a sit-in and sang \"We Shall Overcome\", which his campaign livestreamed on Facebook. Gillum later took a meeting with Jack Heekin, Scott's deputy chief of staff, as Scott was in Colombia that day. Also on August 8, King released a campaign ad titled \"Change Hearts\", which features his remarks from the August 5 rally. Republican candidate Adam Putnam defended Sheriff Gualitieri's decision to not arrest Drejka, but later supported State Attorney McCabe's decision to charge Drejka with manslaughter. Putnam continued to support SYG but was open to making technical changes to help direct law enforcement officials when deciding on a relevant case. Ron DeSantis, a supporter of SYG, initially remained silent about the case. In a statement published by \"Politico\" on August 6, DeSantis defended the law but criticized Sheriff Gualtieri, stating he believed Gualtieri did not analyze it properly. Putnam then expressed his support for Sheriff Gualtieri, noting that DeSantis had no endorsements from Florida sheriffs and accused DeSantis of siding with Sharpton and liberal Democrats. In a \"Rolling Stone\" profile about Andrew Gillum published six days before the general election, Jamil Smith wrote that Gillum made Markeis McGlockton \"a staple of his stump speech.\" \nDuring the primary race for Florida Attorney General, Democrats Sean Shaw and Ryan Torrens both stated they planned to work towards their goal of repealing SYG. Shaw met with the McGlockton family and provided his thoughts and prayers to them. Republicans Ashley Moody and Frank White both said they did not want to see the law change, though Moody showed sympathy for McGlockton's family. Shaw and Moody participated in a general election debate on October 23, which was held at the Museum of Fine Arts in St. Petersburg and televised by Spectrum News channels Bay News 9 and News 13; while discussing SYG, Shaw mentioned Markeis McGlockton by name.\n\nThe story broke in the Tampa Bay market within the day of the shooting. After Sheriff Gualtieri declined to charge Drejka, the story was covered by \"New York Post\" that day, while \"The New York Times\" covered it the following day. On the following Monday, Jacobs appeared on ABC's \"Good Morning America\" and \"Nightline\". The story was also covered nationally by \"The Washington Post\", \"The Hill\", \"The Young Turks\", \"HuffPost\", and Vox. The story received coverage on cable news programming such as \"Cuomo Prime Time\" on CNN, \"PoliticsNation with Al Sharpton\" and \"MSNBC Live with Yasmin Vossoughian\" on MSNBC, and \"America's Newsroom\" on Fox News. The story was featured in African-American publications such as Blavity, \"Ebony\", \"The Root\", and The Grio. The story was covered internationally by BBC News, \"The Week\", \"The Independent\", and PerthNow. \"The New Zealand Herald\" ran the \"Washington Post\" article on their website.\n\nAndy Marlette, an editorial cartoonist for the \"Pensacola News Journal\", created a cartoon depicting the mother of Trayvon Martin standing next to his grave while holding a copy of the \"Tampa Bay Times\" with McGlockton's name on the front page; her speech balloon reads \"IT HAPPENED AGAIN, BABY...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36916989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36916989", "title": "Siberian Crane Memorandum of Understanding", "text": "Siberian Crane Memorandum of Understanding\n\nThe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Concerning Conservation Measures for the Siberian Crane is a Multilateral Environmental Memorandum of Understanding and came into effect on 1 July 1993 and was amended in January 1999. It was the first MoU to be concluded under the auspices of the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals (CMS), also known as the Bonn Convention, and focuses on conserving the Siberian crane as one of the three rarest crane species. The MoU covers twelve range states (Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, China, India, Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan (vagrant), Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russian Federation, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan). As of August 2012, eleven range states have signed the MoU.\n\nTaking into consideration the unfavorable conservation status of the Siberian crane (\"Leucogeranus leucogeranus\") and the fact that the species has the longest migration route of all crane species ranging from breeding areas in the Arctic regions of Asia to wintering grounds in southern Asia, the range states acknowledged that the species would benefit from international cooperation between the countries. Therefore, as the first one to be conducted under the CMS, an Article IV agreement was concluded and entered into effect on 1 July 1993 and was later revised in January 1999.\n\nSignatories to the Siberian Crane MoU:\n\nIn addition, the following organizations have signed the MoU:\n\nThe Siberian crane is facing serious threats with hunting along the migration routes of the western/central population being the most immediate. Although shooting Siberian cranes is prohibited in most of the range states, illegal hunting persists. Another major problem is the habitat deterioration in their staging and wintering areas, especially along the eastern flyway. The MoU aims protecting the species through concerted, coordinated actions in order to prevent disappearance of the remaining populations.\n\nOriginally the MoU concentrated on the western and central populations of Siberian cranes, which migrate between breeding grounds in western Siberia and wintering sites in Iran and India. The scope of the MoU was extended in 1998 to cover the larger eastern Asian population which winters around Poyang Lake, China, and accounts for over 95 percent of the birds.\n\nAll signatories, being aware that the western and central populations of the Siberian crane have been reduced to the brink of extinction, and that the status of the eastern population is threatened, agree to work closely together to improve the conservation status of the species throughout its breeding, migrating and wintering range. To that end, they shall:\n\nThe revised MoU took effect on 1 January 1999 and shall remain in effect indefinitely subject to the right of any signatory to terminate its participation by providing one year’s written notice to all of the other signatories.\n\nMeetings of signatories are organized regularly to review the conservation status and the implementation of the MoU and Conservation Plan. National reports by individual signatories as well as an overview report prepared by the secretariat are also submitted. As of August 2012, seven meetings have been held:\n\nThe most recent meeting to date was the Seventh meeting held in Germany, June 2010. This meeting reviewed a conservation status report, discussed progress in the designation of new sites for the Western/Central Asian Critical Network (WCACN), considered the scope for synergies with the Agreement on the conservation of African Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA), agreed action priorities for each country, and adopted revised action plans for the three Siberian Crane Flyways. The Eighth meeting is scheduled to take place in 2013.\n\nThe CMS Secretariat – located in Bonn, Germany – acts as the secretariat to the MoU. One of the tasks of the secretariat is to organize the regular meetings of signatories and prepare an overview report compiled on the basis of information at its disposal.\n\nA Conservation Plan is annexed to the MoU and provides a road map to guide the implementation of conservation action for the Siberian crane in the range states. In May 2001, conservation plans for the western, central and eastern populations have been drawn up and included several programmes and specific activities required to restore the populations. The overall aim of the three plans were to reduce mortality in the remaining populations, to protect and manage their habitats and enhance cooperation among the range states and other concerned agencies. As from 2007 one conservation plan for the three populations was agreed upon. The latest plan was adopted for the period 2010-2012. The main objectives of the plans are:\n\nThe Global Environment Facility (GEF) approved a US$ 10 million, six-year project called “Development of a Wetland Site and Flyway Network for Conservation of the Siberian Crane and Other Migratory Waterbirds in Asia”, also commonly known as the Siberian Crane Wetland Project. The project aims to protect a network of globally important wetlands in Asia for migratory waterbirds and uses the Siberian crane as a flagship species, linking activities at 16 key wetlands along the species’ western and eastern flyways in Russia, Kazakhstan, Iran and China. The main concentration of the project is strengthening national legislation, policy planning and enforcement, cooperation and training. The project started in April 2003 and finished in December 2009. Project outcomes include:\n\nThe final report “Safe Flyways for the Siberian Crane” was launched at the UNEP General Council Meeting on February 24, 2010. Overall, the SCWP strengthened the network of wetlands along the Siberian crane’s flyways through improving site protection and management, e.g. GIS training for project consultants and reserve staff in Kazakhstan, international recognition through site designations under CMS, Ramsar and World Heritage Conventions, securing water supplies to water-stressed wetlands, integrating stakeholders concern and decision making into reserve management and undertaking education and awareness programs at local, national and flyway levels, e.g. crane celebrations.\n\nThe WCASN was formally launched on 18 March 2007 in Kazakhstan, in a special signing ceremony held during the Sixth Meeting of Signatories to the MoU. It is the first step towards developing a more comprehensive site network for migratory waterbirds under a wider framework proposed within the Central Asian Flyway (CAF) Initiative under CMS. WCASN focuses on conservation efforts on sites of international importance for the Siberian crane along its west and central Asian flyways and its goal is to ensure the conservation of the species through recognition an appropriate management of a network of internationally important sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "6585391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6585391", "title": "Smith v. Maryland", "text": "Smith v. Maryland\n\nSmith v. Maryland, 442 U.S. 735 (1979), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the installation and use of the pen register was not a \"search\" within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, and hence no warrant was required.\nThe pen register was installed on telephone company property at the telephone company's central offices. In the Majority opinion, Justice Blackmun rejected the idea that the installation and use of a pen register constitutes a violation of the \"legitimate expectation of privacy\" since the numbers would be available to and recorded by the phone company anyway.\n\nIn \"Katz v. United States\" (1967), the United States Supreme Court established its \"reasonable expectation of privacy\" test. It overturned \"Olmstead v. United States\" and held that a bugging was a constitutionally-protected search, because there was a reasonable expectation that the communication would be private. The government was then required to get a warrant to execute a search using a bug.\n\nIn \"Smith v. Maryland\", the Supreme Court held that a pen register is not a search because the \"petitioner voluntarily conveyed numerical information to the telephone company.\" Since the defendant had disclosed the dialed numbers to the telephone company so they could connect his call, he did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the numbers he dialed. The court did not distinguish between disclosing the numbers to a human operator or just the automatic equipment used by the telephone company.\n\nThe Smith decision left pen registers completely outside constitutional protection. If there were to be any privacy protection, it would have to be enacted by Congress as statutory privacy law.\n\nIn a majority opinion authored by Justice Blackmun, the court held that:\n\nFurther it was argued that is not unreasonable to assume that the telephone company would use electronic equipment to keep records of all telephone numbers dialed.\n\nThe argument was made that since telephone numbers are needed to connect your calls that this information cannot be considered private as telephone companies would have access to this information in order to connect your call.\n\nIn a dissenting opinion, Justice Stewart, joined by Justice Brennan, instead argued that, like the contents of a conversation (an allusion to a precedent set by \"Katz\"), the numbers dialed from a private telephone is within constitutional protection:\n\nIn a second dissenting opinion, Justice Marshall, joined by Justice Brennan, expressed his disagreement with the Court's existing third-party doctrine, stating:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47329596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47329596", "title": "Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers in Israel", "text": "Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers in Israel\n\nThe Society of Authors, Composers and Music Publishers in Israel (), known by the acronym ACUM (), is a non-profit copyright collective which engages in collective rights management for authors, poets, lyricists, composers, arrangers, and music publishers in Israel. As a member of the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers (CISAC), ACUM is affiliated with more than 100 similar rights organizations around the world, with which it engages in reciprocal royalty collection agreements. It also holds an annual prize ceremony which honors authors and musicians in many categories, including lifetime achievement. \n\nAs of 2016, the organization has 10,125 members, of which 149 are publishers. More than 1.7 million Israeli and foreign works are registered in its database. In 2004, ACUM was the subject of a precedent-setting decision by the Israel Antitrust Authority which determined that its arrangement for licensing members' work amounted to a restrictive agreement, and that ACUM was essentially a monopoly. Since 2011, the group has operated under limitations imposed by the Antitrust Tribunal.\n\nACUM was incorporated in Mandatory Palestine in 1936, although it had been operating on an informal basis since 1934. The organization originally represented Jewish authors and musicians. \n\nIn ACUM's early years, the Palestine Broadcasting Service was its primary source of royalties. ACUM did not have a workable system in place to collect royalties from café owners, nor did it distribute royalties among its members in a systematic fashion.\n\nAs ACUM improved its enforcement of royalty payments for musical works performed in Israel, it began signing reciprocal agreements with foreign counterparts. A 1965 \"Billboard\" report on the signing of an agreement between ACUM and the GEMA performing rights organization of Germany noted:\nAccording to Israeli copyright law, royalties must be paid to ACUM for reproduction of any kind of music in the rooms of officials, political parties, ministries and settlements (kibuzzims), or over the radio or on records and tape. Clubs, tourist buses and aircraft are encompassed by the copyright law. Even guitar music played in the evenings at the kibuzzims is subject to ACUM royalties.\n\nACUM is a member of the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers (CISAC) and the International Bureau of Societies Administering Mechanical Rights, both of which are recognized by the UN's World Intellectual Property Organization. Through its CISAC membership, ACUM is affiliated with more than 100 similar rights organizations around the world, collecting royalties on their behalf for work performed in Israel, and receiving royalties for Israeli members' works performed abroad.\n\nIn 2004, the Israel Antitrust Authority declared that the arrangement which ACUM had to license its members' work amounted to a restrictive agreement, and that ACUM was essentially \"a monopoly in the markets for the management of broadcast rights, public performance rights, copying rights, recording rights and rights to synchronise musical pieces, including the provision of licenses for the use of these rights\". ACUM appealed this decision to the Antitrust Tribunal in July 2004, which rejected the appeal in 2008. In May 2009 the Supreme Court of Israel dismissed ACUM's appeal. The case served as a precedent for other copyright management organizations in Israel to be subject to the approval of the Antitrust Tribunal.\n\nIn 2008, in keeping with the demand for transparency, ACUM hired a public relations firm and held its first-ever press conference. It reported that in 2008 it had collected NIS 76 million in royalties which it passed on to its members, an increase of 28% over the previous year. Organizational revenue was reported as NIS 99.4 million.\n\nIn 2011, the Antitrust Tribunal approved ACUM's arrangements with artists for a period of five years, subject to a series of limitations. This approval was renewed in 2016, with additional requirements for ACUM to regularly report on its revenues and artist compensation, as well as to indicate which copyrights have expired in its public database.\n\nAs of 2016, the organization has 10,125 members, of which 149 are publishers. There are no membership dues. To qualify for membership, artists must be active in the fields of literature and music, and have their works \"used on a public basis\". \n\nACUM provides its members with \"copyright protection and collective arrangements authorising the use of works, collection of royalties for such use, and legal advice\". Its services include the granting of licenses to internet sites whose servers are based in Israel, allowing them to broadcast, download, and display copyrighted works online. In 2004 ACUM won an Israel Supreme Court decision allowing it to license musical works for commercial use online.\n\nIn 2012, ACUM opened a creative studio in which young musicians can perform royalty-free and also receive part of the profits from ticket sales. Located in a hangar in the Tel Aviv Port, the studio provides amplifiers, lighting, musical instruments, and a rehearsal stage. The 150-seat facility is also used by the organization for workshops and master classes.\n\nThe ACUM prize ceremony started in 1958 as a small competition for works that were submitted anonymously. The competition has developed over the years, today offering a wide range of prizes for literature and classical music, and for popular music. The organization's lifetime achievement award for authors and musicians is considered very prestigious in Israel. As of 2018, the lifetime achievement award includes a cash prize of $10,000.\n\nIn 2014 the board of directors decided to downgrade a lifetime achievement award to a general prize for \"contribution to music\" for singer Ariel Zilber, whose political views are right-wing and pro-settler. The board was pressured to downgrade the prize by left-wing protestors, among them Dalia Rabin, daughter of the slain Prime Minister of Israel Yitzhak Rabin. Singer Achinoam Nini refused to accept her award from ACUM in response to the decision to honor Zilber. The board's decision drew condemnation from right-wing politicians Avigdor Lieberman, Foreign Minister, Naftali Bennett, Minister of the Economy, and Limor Livnat, Minister of Culture, as well as from supporters of art, music, and freedom of speech.\n\nDirectors of ACUM have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "19298632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19298632", "title": "Target surplus", "text": "Target surplus\n\nTarget surplus represents the amount of additional capital held by a financial institution beyond the regulatory requirements in order to ensure that the chances of breaching capital adequacy or solvency requirements are significantly reduced.\n\nAdelphi University graduate Chris Nocera is often credited with first implementing it into economic behavioral analytics. \n"}
{"id": "15277073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15277073", "title": "United States defamation law", "text": "United States defamation law\n\nThe origins of the United States' defamation laws pre-date the American Revolution; one influential case in 1734 involved John Peter Zenger and established precedent that \"The Truth\" is an absolute defense against charges of libel. (Previous English defamation law had not provided this guarantee.) Though the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution was designed to protect freedom of the press, for most of the history of the United States, the U.S. Supreme Court failed to use it to rule on libel cases. This left libel laws, based upon the traditional \"Common Law\" of defamation inherited from the English legal system, mixed across the states. The 1964 case \"New York Times Co. v. Sullivan\", however, radically changed the nature of libel law in the United States by establishing that public officials could win a suit for libel only when they could prove the media outlet in question knew either that the information was wholly and patently false or that it was published \"with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not\". Later Supreme Court cases barred strict liability for libel and forbid libel claims for statements that are so ridiculous as to be patently false. Recent cases have added precedent on defamation law and the Internet.\n\nThe First Amendment guarantees of Freedom of Speech and Freedom of the Press provide defendants in the United States significantly more protection than the countries of the Commonwealth and Europe. Some variation exists among the several states to the extent the state's legislature has passed statutes or its courts have handed down decisions affecting the contours inherited from the common law. Some states codify what constitutes slander and libel together into the same set of laws. \n\nCriminal libel is rarely prosecuted but exists on the books in many states, and is constitutionally permitted in circumstances essentially identical to those where civil libel liability is constitutional. Defenses to libel that can result in dismissal before trial include the statement being one of opinion rather than fact or being \"fair comment and criticism\", though neither of these are imperatives on the US constitution. Truth is an absolute defense against defamation in the United States, meaning true statements cannot be defamatory.\n\nMost states recognize that some categories of false statements are considered to be defamatory \"per se\", such that people making a defamation claim for these statements do not need to prove that the statement was defamatory. (See section Defamation \"per se\".)\n\nLaws regulating slander and libel in the United States began to develop even before the American Revolution. In one of the most famous cases, New York City publisher John Peter Zenger was imprisoned for 8 months in 1734 for printing attacks on the governor of the colony. Zenger won his case and was acquitted by jury in 1735 under the counsel of Andrew Hamilton. The case established some precedent that the truth should be an absolute defense against libel charges. Previous English defamation law had not provided this guarantee. Gouverneur Morris, a major contributor in the framing of the U.S. Constitution said, \"The trial of Zenger in 1735 was the germ of American freedom, the morning star of that liberty which subsequently revolutionized America\".\n\nZenger's case also established that libel cases, though they were civil rather than criminal cases, could be heard by a jury, which would have the authority to rule on the allegations and to set the amount of monetary damages awarded.\n\nThe First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution was designed specifically to protect freedom of the press. However, for most of the history of the United States, the Supreme Court neglected to use it to rule on libel cases. This left libel laws, based upon the traditional common law of defamation inherited from the English legal system, mixed across the states.\n\nIn 1964, however, the court issued an opinion in \"New York Times Co. v. Sullivan\", dramatically changing the nature of libel law in the United States. In that case, the court determined that public officials could win a suit for libel only if they could demonstrate \"actual malice\" on the part of reporters or publishers. In that case, \"actual malice\" was defined as \"knowledge that the information was false\" or that it was published \"with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not\". This decision was later extended to cover \"public figures\", although the standard is still considerably lower in the case of private individuals.\n\nIn \"Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.\", , the Supreme Court suggested that a plaintiff could not win a defamation suit when the statements in question were expressions of opinion rather than fact. In the words of the court, \"under the First Amendment, there is no such thing as a false idea\". However, the Court subsequently rejected the notion of a First Amendment opinion privilege, in \"Milkovich v. Lorain Journal Co.\", . In \"Gertz\", the Supreme Court also established a \"mens rea\" or culpability requirement for defamation; states cannot impose strict liability because that would run afoul of the First Amendment. This holding differs significantly from most other common law jurisdictions, which still have strict liability for defamation.\n\nIn \"Hustler Magazine v. Falwell\", , the Supreme Court ruled that a parody advertisement claiming Jerry Falwell had engaged in an incestuous act with his mother in an outhouse, while false, could not allow Falwell to win damages for emotional distress because the statement was so obviously ridiculous that it was clearly not true; an allegation believed by nobody, it was ruled, brought no liability upon the author. The court thus overturned a lower court's upholding of an award where the jury had decided against the claim of libel but had awarded damages for emotional distress.\n\nAfter \"Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co.\", 1995 N.Y. Misc. Lexis 229 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. May 24, 1995), applied the standard publisher/distributor test to find an online bulletin board liable for post by a third party, Congress specifically enacted (1996) to reverse the \"Prodigy\" findings and to provide for private blocking and screening of offensive material. § 230(c) states \"that no provider or user of an interactive computer shall be treated as a publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider\", thereby providing forums immunity for statements provided by third parties. Thereafter, cases such as \"Zeran v. America Online\", , and \"Blumenthal v. Drudge\", , have demonstrated that although courts are expressly uneasy with applying § 230, they are bound to find providers like AOL immune from defamatory postings. This immunity applies even if the providers are notified of defamatory material and neglect to remove it, because provider liability upon notice would likely cause a flood of complaints to providers, would be a large burden on providers, and would have a chilling effect on freedom of speech on the Internet.\n\nIn \"Barrett v. Rosenthal\", , the California Supreme Court ruled that does not permit web sites to be sued for libel that was written by other parties.\n\nTo solve the problem of libel tourism, the SPEECH Act makes foreign libel judgments unenforceable in U.S. courts, unless those judgments are compliant with the U.S. First Amendment. The act was passed by the 111th United States Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama.\n\nIn 2014 the Ninth Circuit Court ruled that liability for a defamatory blog post involving a matter of public concern cannot be imposed without proof of fault and actual damages. Bloggers saying libelous things about private citizens concerning public matters can only be sued if they are negligent i.e., the plaintiff must prove the defendant's negligence – the same standard that applies when news media are sued. The Court held that in defamation cases not the identity of the speaker, but rather the public-figure status of a plaintiff and the public importance of the statement at issue provide the First Amendment foundation.\n\nDefamation law in the United States is much less plaintiff-friendly than its counterparts in European and the Commonwealth countries, due to the enforcement of the First Amendment. One very important distinction today is that European and Commonwealth jurisdictions adhere to a theory that every publication of a defamation gives rise to a separate claim, so that a defamation on the Internet could be sued on in any country in which it was read, while American law only allows one claim for the primary publication.\n\nIn the United States, a comprehensive discussion of what is and is not libel or slander is difficult, because the definition differs between different states. Some states codify what constitutes slander and libel together into the same set of laws. Some states have criminal libel laws on the books, though these are old laws which are very infrequently prosecuted. Washington State has held its criminal libel statute unconstitutional applying the state and federal constitutions to the question.\n\nMost defendants in defamation lawsuits are newspapers or publishers, which are involved in about twice as many lawsuits as are television stations. Most plaintiffs are corporations, businesspeople, entertainers and other public figures, and people involved in criminal cases, usually defendants or convicts but sometimes victims as well. In no state can a defamation claim be successfully maintained if the allegedly defamed person is deceased.\n\nSection 230 of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 generally immunizes from liability parties that create forums on the Internet in which defamation occurs from liability for statements published by third parties. This has the effect of precluding all liability for statements made by persons on the Internet whose identity cannot be determined.\n\nIn the various states, whether by case law or legislation, there are generally several \"privileges\" that can get a defamation case dismissed without proceeding to trial. These include the litigation privilege, which makes statements made in the context of litigation non-actionable, and the allegedly defamatory statement being \"fair comment and criticism\", as it is important to society that everyone be able to comment on matters of public interest. The United States Supreme Court, however, has declined to hold that the \"fair comment\" privilege is a constitutional imperative.\n\nOne defense is reporting or passing through information as a general information or warning of dangerous or emergent conditions, and intent to defame must be proven. Also, the truth of the allegedly defamatory statement will always negate the claim (whether because the plaintiff fails to meet his/her burden of proving falsity or because the defendant proves the statement to be true).\n\nAll states except Arizona, Missouri, and Tennessee recognize that some categories of false statements are so innately harmful that they are considered to be defamatory \"per se\". In the common law tradition, damages for such false statements are presumed and do not have to be proven.\n\nStatements are defamatory per se where they falsely impute to the plaintiff one or more of the following things:\n\nOn the federal level, there are no criminal defamation or insult laws in the United States. However, 17 states and 2 territories have criminal defamation laws on the books:\nBetween 1992 and August 2004, 41 criminal defamation cases were brought to court in the United States, among which six defendants were convicted. From 1965 to 2004, 16 cases ended in final conviction, among which nine resulted in jail sentences (average sentence, 173 days). Other criminal cases resulted in fines (average fine, $1,700), probation (average of 547 days), community service (on average 120 hours), or writing a letter of apology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1603403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603403", "title": "United States v. Place", "text": "United States v. Place\n\nUnited States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696 (1983), was a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States which held that a sniff of luggage in a public place, by a police dog specially trained to detect the odor of narcotics, was not a \"search\" under the meaning of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Court reasoned that the sniff of a dog is \"sui generis\", intended to disclose only the presence or absence of narcotics. Because a dog sniff is such a limited test, the Court carved out this exception from the broad category of \"searches\" for which a warrant is generally required.\n\nRaymond J. Place first aroused the suspicion of law enforcement officers as he was standing in line at the Miami airport waiting to buy a ticket to New York's LaGuardia Airport. The officers approached him on his way to the gate and asked him for identification. Place also agreed to let the officers search the luggage he had checked, but they declined to do so in light of the flight's imminent departure. Discrepancies between the two luggage tags on Place's two suitcases further aroused the officers' suspicions, and they confirmed that the addresses were false. The Miami officers alerted DEA agents at LaGuardia to their suspicions about Place.\n\nThe DEA agents waited until Place had retrieved his luggage and called a limousine before approaching him in New York. The DEA agents again asked Place for his identification, which he produced. The agents discovered that Place had no outstanding warrants. They then asked to search Place's luggage, but Place declined to allow the agents to do so. The agents then told Place they were going to take the luggage to a federal judge to obtain a warrant to search the luggage, and that Place was free to accompany them if he chose to. An hour and a half later, the agents had taken Place's bags to Kennedy airport and allowed a trained narcotics detection dog to perform a \"sniff\" test. The dog detected the presence of narcotics. This was late on a Friday afternoon; the agents retained the luggage over the weekend until Monday, when they obtained a warrant to search the luggage. They discovered over a kilogram of cocaine.\n\nPlace was indicted for possession of cocaine with intent to distribute. In the district court, Place moved to suppress the cocaine, arguing that the warrantless seizure of the luggage violated his Fourth Amendment rights. The district court disagreed, reasoning instead that the police only needed reasonable suspicion to seize Place's bags, which they had. Place pleaded guilty to the possession charge, but reserved the right to appeal the denial of his suppression motion. On appeal, the Second Circuit reversed, holding that the prolonged seizure of Place's bags violated the principles of \"Terry v. Ohio\" (1968). The U.S. Supreme Court then agreed to hear the case.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment protects the interest people have in keeping their persons, houses, papers, and effects free from unreasonable searches and seizures. Though most of the Court's container jurisprudence deals with the search of the container rather than the initial seizure, there existed some general principles. First, the seizure may not take place without a warrant, supported by probable cause, and describing particularly the things to be seized. Second, over time, exceptions to the warrant requirement had evolved, allowing for seizure without probable cause in exigent circumstances not allowing for the time to obtain a warrant.\n\nThe Court first had to consider whether, as the lower courts had assumed, the framework of \"Terry v. Ohio\", under which a limited detention of a person can be justified in the face of reasonable suspicion, can apply to the temporary seizure of a person's luggage. Indeed, when government agents have reason to suspect (but not probable cause to believe) that, for instance, a traveler's luggage contains narcotics, it has a substantial interest in confirming or denying that suspicion. In order to dispel that suspicion, the Court reasoned a brief seizure of the luggage could be justified. This brief seizure could not encompass a full-blown \"search,\" just as a \"Terry\" stop may not increase in seriousness to a full-blown arrest, unless probable cause to perform the search arose during the brief detention.\n\nIn this case, the whole reason the DEA agents seized Place's luggage was so they could subject it to the dog sniff. The sniff, in turn, would violate Place's Fourth Amendment rights if it constituted a \"search.\" A \"search\" is an unwarranted intrusion on a person's objectively reasonable expectation of privacy. But the sniff did not require opening the luggage; it did not expose things that are not contraband to public view. The sniff was thus far more limited than the typical search. Moreover, the sniff merely revealed the presence or absence of narcotics. Thus, it was \"sui generis\", and did not constitute a \"search\" under the Fourth Amendment.\n\nHowever, even though the DEA agents did not \"search\" Place's luggage when they subjected it to the dog sniff, their seizure of the luggage was unreasonable because it exceeded the limits of a \"Terry\"-type investigative stop. The length of time the agents had possession of Place's luggage was too great—90 minutes before the dog sniff had been conducted. Also, the agents knew what time Place's plane was scheduled to land at LaGuardia, and thus had ample time to arrange their investigation accordingly, so that taking Place's luggage from LaGuardia to Kennedy airports should not have been necessary. Thus, the seizure of Place's luggage was unreasonable in this case.\n\nJustice Brennan concurred in the Court's judgment because he agreed with the Second Circuit that the scope of the agents' seizure of Place's luggage was unreasonable. Furthermore, Brennan noted that while \"Terry\" may authorize seizures of personal effects incident to a lawful seizure of the person, nothing in the \"Terry\" line of cases authorizes the police to seize personal property, such as luggage, independent of the seizure of the person. For Brennan, it was therefore unnecessary for the Court to decide whether the dog sniff constitutes a \"search\" under the Fourth Amendment. It was Brennan's view that dog sniffs can reveal more information than just the presence or absence of narcotics, and therefore constituted a \"search.\" But Brennan did not feel that this case was an appropriate vehicle for the Court to decide how to handle dog sniffs under the Fourth Amendment.\n\nJustice Blackmun also felt that this case was not appropriate for deciding the status of dog sniffs under the Fourth Amendment. For one thing, Blackmun observed, Place had not raised the issue in either the district court or the Second Circuit. For another, Blackmun agreed with Brennan that it was not necessary to decide whether a dog sniff is a \"search\" in order to decide the case, because the seizure of Place's luggage was unreasonable in any event.\n\n"}
{"id": "27117775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27117775", "title": "Venetian Senate", "text": "Venetian Senate\n\nThe Venetian Senate (), formally the Consiglio dei Pregadi (\"Council of the Invited\", ), was the main deliberative and legislative body of the Republic of Venice.\n\nThe Senate originated as a select committee of sixty men, chosen by the Great Council, to deliberate on decrees concerning taxation, commerce, foreign policy, and military operations, instead of the far larger, and more unwieldy, Great Council. Initially it was junior to another similar committee, the Council of Forty, but in later centuries it grew in importance. \n\nBy the 15th century, the Forty could join in an enlarged Senate, which was further expanded through an extraordinary commission (a \"zonta\") of sixty men, nominated by the sitting Senators. Furthermore, ambassadors and senior military commanders held an \"ex officio\" position in the Senate from the day of their election to the end of the year after their return from their post. In total, about 300 men (out of an estimated nobility of 2,500 in 1500) had a seat in the Senate, but only about 230 of them had a right to vote. The minimum number for a quorum was set at 70, but more usually there were about 180 nobles in attendance. Election to the Senate was for terms of one year, but frequently the same men were continuously re-elected, ensuring both experience and continuity in political decision-making. The meetings of the Senate were presided over by the Full College, the effective executive arm of the Venetian government, which was in charge of preparing matters for discussion in the Senate through the \"Savii del Consiglio\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21397938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21397938", "title": "Virtual law firm", "text": "Virtual law firm\n\nA virtual law firm is a legal practice that does not have a bricks-and-mortar office, but operates from the homes or satellite offices of its lawyers, usually delivering services to clients at a distance using technological means of communication. Most have a central function responsible for the accounting and administrative side of the practice. Virtual law firms are formed and regulated in the same way as traditional law firms, but their lawyers may be self-employed consultants rather than partners or employees.\n\nThe first recorded virtual law firm was \"Woolley & Co\" set up in 1996 in England by Andrew Woolley. The term became more clearly defined in 2004 in an article written by Joe Kashi defining exactly what it meant to be a virtual law firm. Virtual law firms are also often referred to as “cloud-based law firms”. The concept has since spread globally and is finding favour with clients seeking higher quality service, value, and mobility.\n\nAccording to earlier sources, a virtual law firm has the following characteristics:\n\n\nThe advent of technology used in virtual law firms such as project management software, Virtual Law Offices and cloud computing have made it far easier for legal practices to save and manage data across geographic locations securely and efficiently and to communicate with clients at a distance, so that proximity to the client, or of the lawyers to each other in an office, has become far less important.\n\nThe virtual law firm has also come to be associated with lower prices, as they generally operate with lower overheads than traditional law firms. Lawyers find they can bill fewer hours but still make more money via a virtual firm because of the lower overheads.\n\nMore recently, the concept of the virtual law firm has been associated with the term, \"eLawyering\" referring to a law firm that delivers legal services online, either directly to consumers through their law firm websites or through legal matching platforms. The American Bar Association has released a statement on minimum requirements for law firms delivering legal service online. The guidelines equate the concept of \"eLawyering\" with the virtual practice of law and the concept of the virtual law firm. According to the American Bar Association guidelines, eLawyering or virtual law practice refers specifically to the delivery of legal services online through a section of a law firm's website that is a known as a secure \"client portal.\" Under this definition, a \"virtual law firm\" is not simply a lawyer who does not have a physical office and communicates with clients by email. Instead, the law firm must have a secure section of its website where a client can log in with a unique user name and password.\n\nThe purpose of the eLawyering Task Force minimum requirements is to provide guidance to attorneys who wish to deliver legal services online on how to comply with the professional rules of conduct that govern law practice in each U.S. state. Conducting business through a log-in portal is different from conducting business over email, as the log-in portal is required to be secure and must adhere to strict regulations and standards. A completely virtual law office will conduct all business online, while some small practices choose to integrate a VLO log-in portal to provide more options to their clients.\n\nA Virtual Law Office, or VLO, is an online law practice that exists through a secure log-in portal and can be accessed by both client and attorney anywhere an internet connection is available. In contrast to a traditional law practice, a VLO allows attorneys and clients to communicate securely over the internet, download or upload documents, and conduct other business normally conducted face-to-face over the internet.\n\nThe features offered by a virtual law office depend on the particular vendor, but basic features centre around a securely hosted, web-based software-as-a-service (SaaS) application that stores documents as part of a cloud computing system. By storing documents and information on an external server and allowing log-in through a secure, encrypted portal, documents can be accessed and shared by client and attorney.\n\nA VLO allows clients and their attorneys to message and communicate securely, schedule appointments online, and upload and download documents. Attorneys running a VLO can also sync their firm’s calendars, sell documents online, and use a “virtual receptionist” service to handle administrative tasks. Attorneys also save on paper and printing costs by providing documents online, and both parties can access the VLO portal at any time of day.\n\nThe main benefit of a virtual law office to the client is convenience and accessibility to the lawyer. The unbundled legal services of a VLO can also save clients a considerable amount of money by allowing them to handle much of the work surrounding their legal consultation themselves, with an attorney guiding them and drafting paperwork (known as “unbundling”). In turn, an attorney running a VLO will have more flexible work hours and be able to serve a much larger client base over the internet. They will also save significant overhead related to running a practice (such as office rent, paper, and assisting staff). With the rapid expansion of technology and internet use, lawyers who are able to bend their practice to serve this client base may find themselves more successful.\n\nBy 2014, there are at least 16 \n\nvirtual law firms in the United States with more than 5 members and more in Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "185222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185222", "title": "War Measures Act", "text": "War Measures Act\n\nThe War Measures Act (; 5 George V, Chap. 2) was a statute of the Parliament of Canada that provided for the declaration of war, invasion, or insurrection, and the types of emergency measures that could thereby be taken. The act was brought into force three times in Canadian history: during the First World War, Second World War and 1970 October Crisis.\n\nThe Act was questioned for its suspension of civil liberties and personal freedoms, not only for Ukrainians and other Europeans during Canada's first national internment operations of 19141920, but also during the Second World War's Japanese Canadian internment and in the October Crisis.\n\nIn the First World War, a state of war with Germany was declared by the United Kingdom on behalf of the entire British Empire. Canada was notified by telegraphic despatch accordingly, effective 4 August 1914, and that status remained in effect until 10 January 1920.\n\nThe War Measures Act, 1914, was subsequently adopted on 22 August 1914 to ratify all steps taken by Canada from the declaration of war, to continue until the war was over. Sections 2 to 6 of the original Act in particular provided for the following:\n\nThe Act conferred broad authority, and was even held by the Supreme Court of Canada in \"In re Gray\" to include the power to amend other Acts by way of regulation. Noting that the British House of Lords, in \"R v Halliday\", had held in 1917 that the Defence of the Realm Act 1914 possessed similar wide powers with respect to the United Kingdom, Fitzpatrick CJ declared:\n\nCanada's first national internment operations of 1914–1920 involved the internment of both genuine POWs and thousands of civilians, most of them Ukrainians who had come from western Ukrainian lands (Galicia and Bukovyna) then held by the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Branded as \"enemy aliens,\" they were stripped of what little wealth they had, forced to work for the profit of their jailers and subjected to other state sanctioned censures, including disenfranchisement under the Wartime Elections Act. A campaign begun by the Ukrainian Canadian Civil Liberties Association in 1985 aimed at securing official acknowledgement and symbolic restitution for what happened succeeded in 2005, following passage of the Internment of Persons of Ukrainian Origin Recognition Act, which resulted in the establishment of the Canadian First World War Internment Recognition Fund.\n\nWith the advent of the Russian Revolution in 1917, additional regulations and orders were added to make the membership in a number of organizations, including socialist and communist organizations, forbidden. Immigration from nations that were connected directly or indirectly with the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Germany was stopped and natives of these countries (Austria, Hungary, Germany and Ukraine) were classed as enemy aliens under the War Measures Act. These enemy aliens were required to carry identification with them at all times and forbidden from possessing firearms, leaving the country without permission, or publishing or reading anything in a language other than English or French. Thousands of these enemy aliens were also interned in camps or deported from Canada. It was not until the labour shortage in Canada became dire that these interned individuals were released into the workforce again in an attempt to boost the economy and the war effort.\n\nIn contrast to the previous war, by virtue of the Statute of Westminster 1931, Canada instituted its measures separately from the United Kingdom. A state of apprehended war was declared on 25 August 1939, and the Defence of Canada Regulations were implemented under the Act. A state of war was declared with Germany on 10 September 1939.\n\nThe extreme security measures permitted by the Defence of Canada Regulations included the waiving of habeas corpus and the right to trial, internment, bans on political and religious groups, restrictions of free speech including the banning of certain publications, and the confiscation of property. S. 21 of the Defence of Canada Regulations allowed the Minister of Justice to detain without charge anyone who might act \"in any manner prejudicial to the public safety or the safety of the state.\" The government soon interned fascists and Communists as well as opponents of conscription. The regulations were later used to intern Japanese Canadians on a large scale as well as some German and Italian Canadians who were viewed as enemy aliens.\n\nIn 1940, the more complex nature of organizing the war effort required the National Resources Mobilization Act to be adopted as well, and many subsequent regulations were brought into force by virtue of both of these Acts.\n\nIn 1943, the Supreme Court of Canada, in the \"Chemicals Reference\", ruled that Orders in Council made under the Act were equivalent to an Act of Parliament, as Rinfret J observed:\n\nThis authority was cited later in support of decisions taken in the \"Reference re Persons of Japanese Race\".\n\nThe Act's effect was further clarified in the \"Wartime Leasehold Regulations Reference\", which held that regulations instituting rental and housing controls displaced provincial jurisdiction for the duration of the emergency. As Taschereau J (as he then was) noted:\n\nThe Act was in force until 31 December 1945, after which the National Emergency Transitional Powers Act, 1945 was in force until 31 March 1947. In 1947, the Continuation of Transitional Measures Act, 1947 was enacted, maintaining certain wartime orders and regulations, and stayed in place until 30 April 1951.\n\nThe attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 led to Canada declaring war against Japan on 8 December 1941. An already established racial bias towards Japanese-Canadians was transformed into full anti-Japanese thoughts and behaviour by Canadian citizens, who saw Japanese-Canadians as spies for Japan. This fear towards Japanese-Canadians led to the quick restriction of their rights and freedoms:\n\n\nIn December 1945, three Orders in Council were issued to provide for the expulsion of Japanese nationals and other persons of Japanese origin, whether or not they were British subjects (either natural born or naturalized). Although the Supreme Court of Canada gave a mixed ruling on the matter, the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council declared all of them to be valid. Following various protests among politicians and academics, the orders were revoked in 1947.\n\nAt the beginning of the war, the Wartime Prices and Trade Board was created with a wide mandate to regulate all matters dealing with the necessities of life, rental and housing controls, import and export controls, and wage and price controls. In 1942, its responsibilities were expanded to include the reduction of non-essential industrial activities in order to maintain minimum requirements only for civilian goods.\n\nThe Act was also used to create the Wartime Labour Relations Regulations in order to control strikes and lockouts and keep wartime production going. While the regulations were initially restricted to industries under federal jurisdictions and companies directly involved in the war effort, provision was made for the provinces to co-opt into the scheme (which all eventually did).\n\nAs labour unrest was widespread at the time, a system of compulsory conciliation was brought into effect, and no strike or lockout could occur until:\n\n\nThere was, however, frustration on the part of the unions which felt that the government tended to not care about the issues the unions were trying to bring to light. The regulations continued after the war's end until 1948, where they were replaced by similar legislation at both the federal and provincial levels.\n\nIn 1960, the act was amended by the Canadian Bill of Rights, in order to ensure that:\n\n\nIn 1970, members of the Front de libération du Québec (FLQ) kidnapped British diplomat James Cross and Quebec provincial cabinet minister Pierre Laporte, who was later murdered. What is now referred to as the October Crisis raised fears in Canada of a militant faction rising up against the government.\n\nUnder provisions of the National Defence Act, the Canadian Forces had been called to assist the police. They appeared on the streets of Ottawa on 12 October 1970. Upon request of the Quebec government with unanimous consent of all party leaders in the Quebec National Assembly, troops appeared on the streets of Montreal on 15 October.\n\nAt the request of the Mayor of Montreal, Jean Drapeau, and the Quebec provincial government, and in response to general threats and demands made by the FLQ, the federal government declared a state of apprehended insurrection under the War Measures Act on 16 October. This was done so that police had more power in arrest and detention, in order to find and stop the FLQ members.\n\nThe use of the War Measures Act to address the problem presented by the FLQ was well supported by Canadians in all regions of Canada, according to a December Gallup Poll. However, there were many vocal critics of the government action, including New Democratic Party leader Tommy Douglas, who said, \"The government, I submit, is using a sledgehammer to crack a peanut.\"\n\nWhile the War Measures Act was in force, 465 people were arrested and held without charge.\n\nThe response by the federal and provincial governments to the incident still sparks controversy. There was a large amount of concern about the act being used, as it was a considered to be a direct threat to civil liberties, removing rights such as \"habeas corpus\" from all Canadians. This is the only time that the War Measures Act had been put in place during peacetime in Canada.\n\nCritics, such as Laurier LaPierre, accused Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau's move to suspend \"habeas corpus\" as more of a reaction to the separatist movement in Quebec by criminalizing it.\n\nThe act's 1970 regulations were replaced by the Public Order (Temporary Measures) Act in November 1970, which subsequently expired on 30 April 1971.\n\nIn May 1981, the Emergency Planning Order was passed, which assigned responsibilities for planning to meet the exigencies of different types of emergencies to various Ministers, departments and agencies of government.\n\nIn 1988, the Emergencies Act was passed, and the War Measures Act was repealed as a consequence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25727494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25727494", "title": "Water law in the United States", "text": "Water law in the United States\n\nWater law in the United States refers to the Water resources law laws regulating water as a resource in the United States. Beyond issues common to all jurisdictions attempting to regulate water's uses, water law in the United States must contend with:\n\n\nThe law governing these topics derives from all layers of US law. Some derives from common law principles which have developed over centuries, and which evolve as the nature of disputes presented to courts change. For example, the judicial approach to landowner rights to divert surface waters has changed significantly in the last century as public attitudes about land and water have evolved. Some derives from state statutory law. Some derives from the original public grants of land to the states and from the documents of their origination. Some derives from state, federal, and local regulation of waters through zoning, public health, and other regulation. (Federally recognized tribes may have water rights, but non-federally recognized Indian tribes generally do not.)\n\nThe United States inherited the British common law system which develops legal principles through judicial decisions made in the context of disputes between parties. Statutory and constitutional law forms the framework within which these disputes are resolved, to some extent, but decisional law developed through the resolution of specific disputes is the great engine of water law.\n\nAt common law any rights to water must be claimed based on a claim against the land over which water flows or rests. A downstream landowner can bring an action against an upstream owner for excessively diminishing the quantity and quality of water arriving at a downstream location.\n\nWater Disputes arise in a number of contexts. When the state, local, or federal government takes private property that has water rights associated with private ownership, the value of that property is significantly affected by its water rights. And, properties located along public waters are quite common, because of the importance of public waters to commerce, the environment, and recreation. These taking cases represent a major source of the law defining the limits of private rights in water and public rights.\n\nA second context for the development of water law arises from disputes among private parties over the extent of their respective water rights; e.g., a landowner upstream seeks to cut off the flow of surface water downstream and appropriate these surface waters for its exclusive use. The downstream owner claims that the upstream landowner has appropriated water that belongs to its property. A downstream owner seeks to stop the flow of excess water that will otherwise flood its land thereby increasing flood damage on the upstream owner. Each party claims that the other's conduct interferes with the rights associated with their respective ownership of the property.\n\nThe third context for water law arises from disputes regarding flooding or other invasions of private property by water. In these cases, the private party claims that private or public actions have damaged its private property, and the court must decide the nature of the respective rights of public and private parties arising from the alteration of the hydrology of a watershed.\n\nIt is important to recognize that there are both private and public 'rights' associated with the water, but that ownership of the water under common law is likened to claiming to \"own\" sunlight. Water must be legally appropriated before it is 'owned', and regulations on appropriation are typically controlled by government agencies and case laws. Who has domain over water is typically based on who owns the underlying soils, but Local, State and Federal regulations often limit the amount and type of uses to which water can be used in order to protect downstream users rights. At some point, before the water reaches the ocean it amasses sufficient size that the underlying lands become owned by the Nation or State in which they are situated. At this point (defined as the upper limits of navigation) individual rights give way to the superior rights of the public.\n\nThe Eastern states (all those east of Texas, except Mississippi), follow the riparian doctrine, which permits anyone whose land has frontage on a body of water to use water from it. These states were the first settled by Europeans (and therefore most influenced by English law) and have the most available water. The Supreme Court has explained the evolution of riparian principles in United States v. Gerlach Livestock (1950)\n\nIn the middle of the Eighteenth Century, English common law included a body of water doctrine known as riparian rights. As long ago as the Institutes of Justinian, running waters, like the air and the sea, were \"res communes\" -- things common to all and property of none. Such was the doctrine spread by civil-law commentators and embodied in the Napoleonic code and in Spanish law. This conception passed into the common law. From these sources, but largely from civil-law sources, the inquisitive and powerful minds of Chancellor Kent and Mr. Justice Story drew in generating the basic doctrines of American water law.\n\nThe riparian concept developed fully in those portions of the United States where lands were amply watered by rainfall. United States v. Gerlach, supra. The Court's decision continues:\n\nThe primary natural asset was land, and the run-off in streams or rivers was incidental. Since access to flowing waters was possible only over private lands, access became a right annexed to the shore. The law followed the principle of equality which requires that the corpus of flowing water become no one's property and that, aside from rather limited use for domestic and agricultural purposes by those above, each riparian owner has the right to have the water flow down to him in its natural volume and channels unimpaired in quality. The riparian system does not permit water to be reduced to possession so as to become property which may be carried away from the stream for commercial or nonriparian purposes. In working out details of this egalitarian concept, the several states made many variations, each seeking to provide incentives for development of its natural advantages.\n\nA number of rights may be listed as riparian rights. One court, in McLafferty v. St. Aubiin, 500 N.W.2d 165 (Minn. App. 1993), has listed the following:\n\nIn addition to these rights, riparian rights may include the right to access the water, the right to use or consume, the right to use the ground of non-public waters, and the right to use land that is added to the extent of the adjoining property by accretion.\n\nMost western states, naturally drier, generally follow the prior appropriation doctrine, which gives a water right to whoever first puts water to beneficial use. Colorado, where the prior appropriation doctrine first developed, was generally looked to as the model by other Western states that adopted the prior appropriation doctrine. Water law in the western United States is defined by state constitutions (e.g., Colorado, New Mexico), statutes, and case law. Each state exhibits variations upon the basic principles of the prior appropriation doctrine. Texas and the states directly north of it; the West Coast states, and Mississippi have a mixture of systems. Hawaii uses a form of riparian rights, and Alaska uses appropriation-based rights.\n\nIn some states Surface water, lakes, rivers, and springs, are treated differently from ground water underground water that is extracted by drilling wells; however, In other states surface and ground water are managed conjunctively. For example, in New Mexico, surface and ground water have been managed together since the 1950s. This trend comes from a growing scientific understanding of the formerly mysterious behavior of underground water systems. For instance, gradual contamination of some water supplies with salt has been explained with the knowledge that drawing water from a well creates a gradual seepage into the well area, potentially contaminating it and surrounding areas with seawater from a nearby coast. Such knowledge is useful for understanding the effects of human activity on water supplies but can also create new sources of conflict.\n\nA variety of federal, state, and local laws govern water rights. One issue unique to America is the law of water with respect to American Indians. Tribal water rights are a special case because they fall under neither the riparian system nor the appropriation system but are outlined in the Winters v. United States decision. Indian water rights do not apply to non-federally recognized tribes.\n\nReserved Native American water rights are commonly known as Winters\" rights\"', determined by the \"Winters\" and \"Arizona v. California\" cases.\n\n\nIndian tribes have sole rights to water only after they have determined practicable irrigable acreage (PIA). According to legal scholar Bruce Duthu, tribes must prove that the requested amount of water is needed for their land and construct facilities to save it.\n\n\"Winters v. United States\" (1908) involved the Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, created by the 1888 agreement with the federal government. This agreement made one boundary of the reservation a part of the Milk River, but it did not mention water rights to that river. Afterwards, non-Indian settlers off the reservation constructed dams in the river that interfered with the tribe's agricultural use of the water. The settlers claimed appropriative rights after the reservation had been established, but before the tribe began to use the water. The Supreme Court held that the water rights were automatically reserved by the 1888 agreement that created the reservation. The Court assumed the Indians would not reserve lands for farming without also reserving the water that would make such farming possible.\n\nIn \"Arizona v. California\" (1963), the Court had to determine water rights of tribes along the Colorado River whose reservations were established by both statute and executive order. The Court held that the statute or executive order could not have meant to establish reservations without also reserving the use of water for the productivity of the tribes. Therefore, the Court held the water rights were effectively reserved at the time of the reservation's creation. Arizona v. California also concerned the quantity of water reserved. The Supreme Court ruled that the tribes were entitled to enough water to irrigate all the \"practicable irrigable acreage\" on the reservation.\n\nNon-Native American purchaser's rights\n\n1. A Native American allotee is entitled to the share of the reservation's water that is needed to irrigate their land.\n\n2. When a Native American sells their allotment to a non-Native American, the purchaser acquires the allotment's reserved water rights.\n\n3. The priority date of those rights remains the date when the reservation was created.\n\n4. Non-Native American allotees can lose their water rights to non-use.\n\n\"Winters\" rights as property\n\n\"Winters\" rights coming from a treaty or statute creating a reservation are property to which title is recognized. When a reservation is created by an executive order, \"the tribal title is unrecognized for Fifth Amendment purposes.\"\n\nThis court case defined the place of Native American tribes in the modern court. It involved water rights in the case of the Cherokee nation. Winters Rights do not apply to the Cherokee Nation because there is no actual Cherokee reservation. During this July 2009 proceeding, the state of Oklahoma sought monetary damages and injunctive relief against the Tyson Foods Corporation, due to the injury to the Illinois River watershed from poultry waste. The defendant, Tyson Foods, Inc., moved to dismiss the case because the Cherokee Nation was not involved, though they were a required party. The ruling on this motion helped determine the standing of the Cherokee Nation concerning water rights in their region.\n\nThe Court, in order to determine if case could proceed without the involvement of the Cherokee Nation, applied Rule 19. The first step in this process determined if the Cherokee Nation was a required party, meaning that complete relief could not be offered, their absence would impede a person's ability to protect the interest, or more obligations could occur due to the interest. In this court ruling, it was determined that the Cherokee Nation has substantial interests, such as seen in their Environmental Quality Code which shows interest in protecting the Illinois River and vindicating any pollution. The Cherokee Nation also has an interest in recovering remedies for any injuries, in regulating and taxing things concerning the environment of the Cherokee Nation. Furthermore, the Cherokee Nation claims their water rights derived from federal law and treaties were unaffected by statehood. In entering into cooperative agreements with tribes, which would be necessary to resolve the issue of water rights (especially in the case of the Cherokee Nation and Tyson Foods) the state of Oklahoma must meet explicit requirements.\n\n1. The Governor is authorized, as well as any other named designee, and is allowed to enter into cooperative agreements on behalf of the state with federally recognized tribes within that state if an issue of mutual interest is being addressed.\n\n2. Approval of the Secretary of the Interior is required if the cooperative agreement dealing with issues of mutual interest involves trust responsibilities.\n\n3. Any cooperative agreement specified and authorized by paragraph 1 that involves the surface/groundwater resources of the states or which in whole or in part apportions the ownership of those resources, shall become effective if the Oklahoma Legislature grants consent to authorize such cooperative agreement.\n\nThe United States historically promised the Five Civilized Tribes that their lands would not be included without their consent in the territorial limits or jurisdiction of a state. This doctrine, known as the Five Tribes Doctrine, according to scholar Jennifer Pelfrey:\n\nSoutheast Oklahoma is unique from other tribal reservation areas because of the Five Tribes doctrine. The federal government removed the Five Civilized Tribes to specific unsettled lands within the Indian Territory. At that time it also granted federal land patents to the Five Tribes and the Tribes were authorized to issue tribal patents in the case of a transfer of their tribal land. The doctrine holds that this \"permanent homeland\" includes rights to all the water within it, not just enough to fulfill the land's purpose, as under the \"Winters\" doctrine. In addition, the Supreme Court has held in past decisions that the federal government conveyed specific lands directly to Indian tribes, and that a state that later enveloped tribal land did not inherit rights to the water on that land. The Tribes also point to Oklahoma's 1906 Enabling Act, federal legislation which says that the State Constitution shall not limit the rights held by the Indians of Oklahoma. The Oklahoma State Constitution, as adopted in 1907,further provides that non-Indian inhabitants of the State do not haverights to Indian lands. The Five Tribes doctrine emphasizes thatunder federal legislation treating the Five Tribes differently from other tribes on reservations, the Choctaw and Chickasaw Tribes in southeastern Oklahoma would own all the water on their lands, and would not be subject to state authority as to its use or non-use.\n\nThe \"Winters\" ruling also applied to this case, because a ruling in 2007 determined that water rights were reserved even in riparian jurisdictions.\n\nThe ruling in this motion determined that the state did not have proper standing to proceed with this case without the Cherokee Nation's involvement.\n\nWater project law is the branch of state and federal law that deals with the construction, management, financing, and repair of major water projects, including public drainage, irrigation, flood control, navigation and other projects. Some of these projects are constructed and managed by state and local government. But many are constructed and managed by special local improvement districts, which are special political subdivisions of state government.\n\nWater project law has had, and continues to have, a significant role in the management of important water resources. For example, agricultural drainage, much of which is now responsible for maintaining a significant infrastructure, results largely from these local districts or other entities. Drainage in the United States occurred in two primary developmental periods,\nduring 1870-1920 and during 1945-1960. By 1920, more than out of a total of of US farmland had received some form of drainage. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), 1982 Natural Resources Inventory (NRI) inventory identified about of wet soils as being prime or adequately drained, of which 72 percent was then cropland. (Economic Research Service, 1987.) Often, state projects are constructed under the mantle of local water project authorities, using special federal funds appropriated for these purposes. Often the local entity must agree in return for the original federal funds to maintain the project indefinitely with local funds, derived either from taxes or special assessments.\n\nAlthough there are unique state law features to water project instrumentalities, there are many features in common. Many of these districts are special improvement districts endowed by state law with the ability to collect revenues from lands that are benefited by the improvement. Often these assessments are in the form of special assessments which are proportional to the increase in value afforded the benefited land by the project. Or, the local improvement district may be afforded the power to levy special taxes, or to levy charges in return for the privilege of receiving the use and benefit of the project.\n\nSome districts are governed by a board of elected officials. Voting rights may be based upon population within the district or in some cases based on the ownership of benefited lands. In some states, some districts are governed by existing local government entities, such as county government, but under special statutory authority. Statutes governing these districts govern the authority to levy assessments, charges, or taxes. They determine the obligation of the authority to maintain. In some cases, establishment of the project, or the district, affords benefited landowners statutory rights to insist on continued maintenance of the project if statutory criteria are met. For example, a certain number of landowners might be required to petition, and make a showing that the conditions for maintenance have been met. The statutes typically provide a method of seeking judicial review of the decisions made by the district in question.\n\n\n"}
