{"id": "23026296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23026296", "title": "Adam Tomkins", "text": "Adam Tomkins\n\nAdam Tomkins (born 28 June 1969) is an academic and politician based within Scotland. He is the John Millar Professor of Public Law at the University of Glasgow School of Law and was elected a Member of the Scottish Parliament for Glasgow in the Scottish Parliament election, 2016. He is shadow cabinet secretary for communities, social security, the constitution and equalities. Until 2015 Tomkins was constitutional advisor to the House of Lords Constitution Committee. From 2015 he has acted as constitutional advisor to the Scotland Office and Secretary of State for Scotland David Mundell.\n\nTomkins was educated at Gillingham School, the University of East Anglia (LL.B., 1990) and the London School of Economics (LL.M., 1991). He taught at the School of Law of King's College London between 1991 and 2000 and became a fellow at St Catherine's College, Oxford in 2000, before being elected to the John Millar Chair of Law at Glasgow in 2003. His research interests lie in constitutional theory and history, British, EU and comparative constitutional law, and republicanism.\n\nTomkins has published seven books in the areas of constitutional, administrative and European Union law, including two, \"Public Law\" (2003) and \"British Government and the Constitution\" (2007, with Colin Turpin), which are amongst the most widely used by law students in the United Kingdom.\n\nTomkins was once a supporter of the group, Republic, a British republican organisation advocating the replacement of the monarchy with a democratically elected head of state, Tomkins published \"Our Republican Constitution\", a republican re-interpretation of the United Kingdom's constitution which claims that the constitution is deeply influenced by republican principles, despite its monarchic nature. By 2015, he had distanced himself from his republican beliefs and said that \"in terms of getting rid of the Queen and having a presidency, I'm probably not signed up to that anymore, because I just don't see the point\".\n\nTomkins has held visiting appointments at the Universities of Toronto, Queensland and New South Wales and the Australian National University, and has lectured throughout the world. In April 2009, Tomkins became associated with Ampersand, a stable at the Faculty of Advocates, as part of its \"Ampersand Academics\" link between practitioners and academics. Professor Douglas Brodie, former head of the School of Law at the University of Edinburgh, has also joined this project. In 2009 he was appointed legal adviser to the House of Lords Constitution Committee. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 2014.\n\nPrior to his Conservative political career, Tomkins professed republican beliefs.\n\nDuring the 2014 Scottish independence referendum Tomkins was a leading unionist campaigner.\n\nAfter the referendum Tomkins was one of two Scottish Conservative representatives appointed to the Smith Commission. He has also been appointed as unpaid adviser to Secretary of State for Scotland David Mundell during the passage of the Scotland Bill through parliament.\n\nIn August 2015, Tomkins announced his intention to stand as a Member of the Scottish Parliament for the Scottish Conservatives in the 2016 elections. In a blog explaining his decision, he was highly critical of the Scottish National Party's actions in government at Holyrood, and praised many policies of the Conservative government at Westminster, including Iain Duncan Smith's \"outstanding\" benefit reforms. He was elected a list member of the Scottish Parliament for the Glasgow Region in the Scottish Parliament election, 2016. He sits on the Finance Committee and the Social Security Committee in the Scottish Parliament.\n\nFrom British Library catalogue (Accessed October 2015).\n"}
{"id": "1806147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1806147", "title": "Agnatic seniority", "text": "Agnatic seniority\n\nAgnatic seniority is a patrilineal principle of inheritance where the order of succession to the throne prefers the monarch's younger brother over the monarch's own sons. A monarch's children (the next generation) succeed only after the males of the elder generation have all been exhausted. Agnatic seniority essentially excludes females of the dynasty and their descendants from the succession. Contrast agnatic primogeniture, where the king's sons stand higher in succession than his brothers. \n\nIn hereditary monarchies, particularly in more ancient times, seniority was a much-used principle of order of succession. The Ottoman Empire evolved from an elective succession (following the principle of agnatic seniority) to a succession inherited by the law of agnatic seniority.\n\nIn succession based on rotation (close to seniority), all (male) members of the dynasty were entitled to the monarchy, in principle. However, this tends to lead to situations where there is no clear rule to determine who is the next monarch.\n\nBrothers succeeding each other as a system leads quickly, particularly in the following generations, to complex patterns and also to disputes between branches which have formed within the monarchical house. Monarchs had collateral relatives, some of whom were rather distant cousins, who were often as entitled to succeed as the monarch himself. Either one branch obtained sufficient control over others (often by force), the rival branches arrived at a balance (such as the succession becoming rotational), or the inheritance was somehow partitioned.\n\nSuccession based on agnatic seniority or rotation was often limited to those princes who were sons of an earlier reigning monarch. Thus a son of a king had a higher claim than a son of a prince. In some cases, distinctions were even made based on whether the claimant was born to a monarch who reigned at the time of birth (porphyrogeniture).\n\nThis limit was practical, as otherwise the number of rivals would be overwhelming. However, it usually left more than one rival who too often waged civil war against each other. In other cases, the eligible branches of dynasty became extinct in the male line (no surviving sons), in which situation the limit was problematic.\n\nSons of princes who did not live long enough to succeed to the throne were unsatisfied with such limits. This led to interpretation problems: What if a claimant's father was a rightful monarch, but not recognized by everyone, or by no one (did not rule at all)? The cases were further complicated by co-reigning monarchs, but this was often a practical solution to a controversial succession.\n\nAgnatic seniority tends in the long run to favor a sort of ultimogeniture, because princes born in a certain generation to the most junior lines tend to be more likely alive at the demise of the predecessor (the last of the immediately preceding generation). In a situation where representatives from any later generation are not allowed to succeed until the last ones of the earlier generation die, plenty of dynasts, usually from more senior branches, will die before their turn on the throne. This tendency is one of the causes of disputed successions: some desire to succeed before they die, and plead the seniority or better blood of their branch. This is further exacerbated if a dynast is not allowed to succeed in case his father was not regnant (or is regarded just as a spare, eligible to succeed only after all those males whose fathers were regnant)—senior branches will with high likelihood sooner or later lose their places in succession. Agnatic seniority tends to favour boys who are born to fathers in their old age.\n\nSuccession within one family based on seniority was often a device to control an elective monarchy. Those two forms of monarchy (agnatic seniority and elective monarchy) were mostly used in the same centuries. Many kingdoms were officially elective long into historical times (though the election usually, or always, fell to family of the deceased monarch).\n\nThe preference for males which exists in most systems of hereditary succession came mostly from the perceived nature of the role of the monarch:\n\n\nIn earlier centuries, perhaps in every second or every third generation on average, the male line often became extinct and females were needed to trace the line of succession. During this period, male lines tended to become extinct relatively quickly, usually due to violent death. Therefore, \"pure\" agnatic succession was impossible to maintain, and frequent exceptions were made—eligibility being granted to the eldest sons of sisters or other female relatives of the monarch.\n\nThe fully agnatic succession also did not serve the interests of individual monarchs who favoured close female relatives and their descendants over very distant male relatives.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages, violence directly involving the monarch and his heirs became less of a factor, as they gradually decreased their personal participation in combat. Sons were much more likely to survive to adulthood and to marry than in previous centuries, when many noble families lost adolescent sons to constant warfare. In addition, the living conditions and nutrition of the nobility improved, leading to fewer miscarriages and decreased infant and childhood mortality. Daughters were therefore needed less and less to trace succession.\n\nIn many cultures, surnames are agnatically determined.\n\nAgnatic seniority and the rota system has been used in several historical monarchies. It was practiced by the Shang survivors who ruled Song under the Zhou in China. In Kievan Rus' during the Rurikid Dynasty, it was implemented by Grand Prince Yaroslav I the Wise (1019–1054). In the Piast Kingdom of Poland, the Testament of Bolesław III Wrymouth enacted in 1138 with the establishment of a Seniorate Province at Kraków led to a centuries-long period of fragmentation of the country among his descendants. In Moravia and Bohemia since 1055 to 1182 respective 1203, established by duke Bretislaus I in his seniority \"constitution\". It was sometimes used in Morocco by the Alaouite dynasty until it was definitely abolished by King Mohammed V (1957–1961) who introduced agnatic primogeniture.\n\nThe principle is currently used by the House of Saud, the royal family of Saudi Arabia; all successors to Ibn Saud as King of Saudi Arabia have been his sons (he had 37 sons). Currently, as all remaining first-generation candidates are in their 70s and 80s, the Allegiance Council has been instituted to smooth the transition of power to the grandsons of Ibn Saud. The institution of the Allegiance Council arguably makes the succession formally elective, but seniority remains the overriding factor, and it is expected that the most-senior dynast will be elected unless he is uninterested in the throne or otherwise disqualified.\n\nIn the succession for the Emperor of Ethiopia, limitation to agnates was controlled until recent times. According to research by the historian Taddesse Tamrat, the order of succession during the Zagwe dynasty was that of brother succeeding brother as King of Ethiopia (i.e., agnatic seniority), which apparently was based on Agaw laws of inheritance. However, the principle of agnatic primogeniture later became dominant, although succession to the throne at the death of the monarch could be claimed by any male blood relative of the Emperor—sons, brothers, uncles or cousins. To avoid instability and civil war, an Emperor typically took care to designate his chosen heir, and to strengthen the heir's position against rivals. In addition, the Emperor would place the heir's rivals in a secure location, which drastically limited their ability to disrupt the Empire with revolts, or to dispute the succession of an heir apparent. Over time, Emperors were more frequently selected by a council of the senior officials of the realm, both secular and religious. The Ethiopian experience is a particularly good example of the instability which can result from the application of the principle of agnatic seniority.\n\nThe County of Anjou followed inheritance by agnatic seniority. When Henry II of England married Eleanor of Aquitaine, creating the Angevin Empire, this resulted in some question over what inheritance laws would affect their children, as Henry II's father was the count of Anjou, and he inherited England and Normandy through his mother. Henry II's eldest son the Young Henry died before him, so the throne passed to his next oldest son, Richard I of England. Henry II's third son Geoffrey II, Duke of Brittany died three years before his father, but his pregnant wife later gave birth to a son, Arthur of Brittany. When Richard was mortally wounded during a castle siege, on his deathbed he named his brother John I of England, Henry II's fourth and youngest son, as his heir. However, the inheritance was questioned by the young Arthur of Brittany (then 12 years old). Arthur argued that as the son of John's older brother Geoffrey, he was the rightful heir of Richard and Henry II according to the laws of agnatic primogeniture which were followed in England and Normandy. John countered that as the male-line heirs of the Counts of Anjou, the Angevin Empire followed the succession law of Anjou which was based on agnatic seniority. Thus, John claimed that as Richard's younger brother, he stood in line ahead of his nephew. Arthur continued to press his claim for the next four years, allying with the king of France against John, though Richard's deathbed declaration of John as his heir provided greater strength to his claim. Ultimately Arthur was captured in battle, imprisoned, and presumably killed by John. The matter was never definitively decided, as John lost all continental land possessions in France and had to relinquish any claim to rule of Anjou.\n\n"}
{"id": "1697804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697804", "title": "Bureau International de l'Edition Mecanique", "text": "Bureau International de l'Edition Mecanique\n\nBIEM (Bureau International des Sociétés Gérant les Droits d'Enregistrement et de Reproduction Mécanique) is an organisation coordinating statutory license agreements among different countries. BIEM is based in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, and represents 55 societies, from 59 countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23900216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900216", "title": "Buttock mail", "text": "Buttock mail\n\nButtock mail was the colloquial term for a Scottish Poor Law tax which was introduced in 1595. Enforced by the ecclesiastical courts who had responsibility for the moral behaviour of the laity, buttock mail was levied as a fine for sexual intercourse out of wedlock.\n\nIn the 17th century, and perhaps earlier when the law that became known as buttock mail was passed, buttock was a colloquial term for a prostitute. The term mail is an old Scots word meaning a monetary tribute or payment, from the same root as the word blackmail. Thus, the term buttock mail literally means a monetary payment related to prostitution, referring to its being a fine for fornication, or sex outside of marriage.\n\nEcclesiastical courts had existed since the Norman invasion. While secular courts were tasked with enforcing secular laws, the responsibility of the ecclesiastical courts was to enforce religious and moral laws. This included discipline of the clergy, enforcement of probate and wills, as well as enforcement of laws that kept the laity within moral bounds. These ecclesiastical courts were very powerful until the late 17th century, when the Glorious Revolution removed much of their power. The remaining jurisdiction of the ecclesiastical courts was removed in the 19th century.\n\nFornication was against the law, and punishments were enforced by these ecclesiastical courts. The normal punishment was a public confession through use of the Stool of Repentance, but payment of buttock mail commuted this sentence, allowing the convicted fornicator to avoid public humiliation. The term buttock mail was in use from the 16th until the 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2835963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835963", "title": "Cincinnati Freedom", "text": "Cincinnati Freedom\n\nCincinnati Freedom (c. 1995 – December 29, 2008), also known as Charlene Mooken, was a 1,050-pound Charolais cow that gained fame when, on February 15, 2002, she leaped over a six-foot fence at Ken Meyers Meats, a Camp Washington (Cincinnati) slaughterhouse, and escaped. After eluding the traps and tranquilizer darts of SPCA officials and police officers for 11 days, she was finally captured just after midnight on February 26 in Clifton, Cincinnati, Ohio. She lived out the rest of her life at Farm Sanctuary's New York Shelter in Watkins Glen, New York, and which was particularly popular with animal rights activists and animal lovers.\n\nFinding a permanent home for her was a source of some debate, as most considered her no longer eligible for slaughter. The Cincinnati Zoo declined to house her, citing health concerns and the possibility that she could not be safely contained. Jan Malley, a Northern Kentucky woman with a farm, was also considered as a possibility. In late March, however, artist Peter Max offered $180,000 worth of paintings to the SPCA for use at their next auction. In return, he took custody of the cow, whom he named to commemorate not only her dramatic pursuit of liberty, but the city into which she escaped.\n\nCincinnati Freedom received the key to Cincinnati, but didn't wear it during the Cincinnati Reds Findlay Market Opening Day Parade on April 1, 2002, as planned, because she was judged too jumpy and nervous to participate. She was brought to her permanent home at Farm Sanctuary's New York Shelter on April 11, 2002, where she spent the rest of her life. She was reported to be doing well in the sanctuary and had apparently made a number of friends, including Queenie, a cow who escaped from a slaughterhouse in Queens, New York, in 2000.\n\nIn 2008, Cincinnati Freedom developed spinal cancer, an incurable and untreatable ailment in cows. She was euthanized on December 29, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "6429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6429", "title": "Compact disc", "text": "Compact disc\n\nCompact disc (CD) is a digital optical disc data storage format that was co-developed by Philips and Sony and released in 1982. The format was originally developed to store and play only sound recordings (CD-DA) but was later adapted for storage of data (CD-ROM). Several other formats were further derived from these, including write-once audio and data storage (CD-R), rewritable media (CD-RW), Video Compact Disc (VCD), Super Video Compact Disc (SVCD), Photo CD, PictureCD, CD-i, and Enhanced Music CD. The first commercially available audio CD player, the Sony CDP-101, was released October 1982 in Japan.\n\nStandard CDs have a diameter of and can hold up to about 80 minutes of uncompressed audio or about 700 MiB of data. The Mini CD has various diameters ranging from ; they are sometimes used for CD singles, storing up to 24 minutes of audio, or delivering device drivers.\n\nAt the time of the technology's introduction in 1982, a CD could store much more data than a personal computer hard drive, which would typically hold 10 MB. By 2010, hard drives commonly offered as much storage space as a thousand CDs, while their prices had plummeted to commodity level. In 2004, worldwide sales of audio CDs, CD-ROMs and CD-Rs reached about 30 billion discs. By 2007, 200 billion CDs had been sold worldwide.\n\nFrom the early 2000s CDs were increasingly being replaced by other forms of digital storage and distribution, with the result that by 2010 the number of audio CDs being sold in the U.S. had dropped about 50% from their peak; however, they remained one of the primary distribution methods for the music industry. In 2014, revenues from digital music services matched those from physical format sales for the first time.\n\nAmerican inventor James T. Russell has been credited with inventing the first system to record digital information on an optical transparent foil that is lit from behind by a high-power halogen lamp. Russell's patent application was first filed in 1966, and he was granted a patent in 1970. Following litigation, Sony and Philips licensed Russell's patents (then held by a Canadian company, Optical Recording Corp.) in the 1980s.\n\nThe compact disc is an evolution of LaserDisc technology, where a focused laser beam\nis used that enables the high information density required for high-quality digital audio signals.\nPrototypes were developed by Philips and Sony independently in the late 1970s. Although originally dismissed by Philips Research management as a trivial pursuit, the CD became the primary focus for Philips as the LaserDisc format struggled. In 1979, Sony and Philips set up a joint task force of engineers to design a new digital audio disc. After a year of experimentation and discussion, the \"Red Book\" CD-DA standard was published in 1980. After their commercial release in 1982, compact discs and their players were extremely popular. Despite costing up to $1,000, over 400,000 CD players were sold in the United States between 1983 and 1984. By 1988, CD sales in the United States surpassed those of vinyl LPs, and by 1992 CD sales surpassed those of prerecorded music cassette tapes. The success of the compact disc has been credited to the cooperation between Philips and Sony, which together agreed upon and developed compatible hardware. The unified design of the compact disc allowed consumers to purchase any disc or player from any company, and allowed the CD to dominate the at-home music market unchallenged.\n\nIn 1974, Lou Ottens, director of the audio division of Philips, started a small group with the aim to develop an analog optical audio disc with a diameter of and a sound quality superior to that of the vinyl record. However, due to the unsatisfactory performance of the analog format, two Philips research engineers recommended a digital format in March 1974. In 1977, Philips then established a laboratory with the mission of creating a digital audio disc. The diameter of Philips's prototype compact disc was set at 11.5 cm, the diagonal of an audio cassette.\n\nHeitaro Nakajima, who developed an early digital audio recorder within Japan's national public broadcasting organization NHK in 1970, became general manager of Sony's audio department in 1971. His team developed a digital PCM adaptor audio tape recorder using a Betamax video recorder in 1973. After this, in 1974 the leap to storing digital audio on an optical disc was easily made. Sony first publicly demonstrated an optical digital audio disc in September 1976. A year later, in September 1977, Sony showed the press a 30 cm disc that could play 60 minutes of digital audio (44,100 Hz sampling rate and 16-bit resolution) using MFM modulation. In September 1978, the company demonstrated an optical digital audio disc with a 150-minute playing time, 44,056 Hz sampling rate, 16-bit linear resolution, and cross-interleaved error correction code—specifications similar to those later settled upon for the standard compact disc format in 1980. Technical details of Sony's digital audio disc were presented during the 62nd AES Convention, held on 13–16 March 1979, in Brussels. Sony's AES technical paper was published on 1 March 1979. A week later, on 8 March, Philips publicly demonstrated a prototype of an optical digital audio disc at a press conference called \"Philips Introduce Compact Disc\" in Eindhoven, Netherlands.\n\nSony executive Norio Ohga, later CEO and chairman of Sony, and Heitaro Nakajima were convinced of the format's commercial potential and pushed further development despite widespread skepticism.\n\nAs a result, in 1979, Sony and Philips set up a joint task force of engineers to design a new digital audio disc. Led by engineers Kees Schouhamer Immink and Toshitada Doi, the research pushed forward laser and optical disc technology. After a year of experimentation and discussion, the task force produced the \"Red Book\" CD-DA standard. First published in 1980, the standard was formally adopted by the IEC as an international standard in 1987, with various amendments becoming part of the standard in 1996.\n\nPhilips coined the term \"compact disc\" in line with another audio product, the Compact Cassette, and contributed the general manufacturing process, based on video LaserDisc technology. Philips also contributed eight-to-fourteen modulation (EFM), which offers a certain resilience to defects such as scratches and fingerprints, while Sony contributed the error-correction method, CIRC.\n\nThe \"Compact Disc Story\", told by a former member of the task force, gives background information on the many technical decisions made, including the choice of the sampling frequency, playing time, and disc diameter. The task force consisted of around four to eight persons, though according to Philips, the compact disc was \"invented collectively by a large group of people working as a team.\"\n\nPhilips established the Polydor Pressing Operations plant in Langenhagen near Hannover, Germany, and quickly passed a series of milestones.\nThe Japanese launch was followed in March 1983 by the introduction of CD players and discs to Europe and North America (where CBS Records released sixteen titles). This 1983 event is often seen as the \"Big Bang\" of the digital audio revolution. The new audio disc was enthusiastically received, especially in the early-adopting classical music and audiophile communities, and its handling quality received particular praise. As the price of players gradually came down, and with the introduction of the portable Discman the CD began to gain popularity in the larger popular and rock music markets. One of the first CD markets was devoted to reissuing popular music whose commercial potential was already proven. An advantage of the format was the ability to produce and market boxed sets and multi-volume collections. The first artist to sell a million copies on CD was Dire Straits, with their 1985 album \"Brothers in Arms\". The first major artist to have their entire catalogue converted to CD was David Bowie, whose first fourteen studio albums of (then) sixteen were made available by RCA Records in February 1985, along with four greatest hits albums; his fifteenth and sixteenth albums had already been issued on CD by EMI Records in 1983 and 1984, respectively. On February 26, 1987, the first four UK albums by The Beatles were released in mono on compact disc. In 1988, 400 million CDs were manufactured by 50 pressing plants around the world.\n\nThe CD was planned to be the successor of the vinyl record for playing music, rather than primarily as a data storage medium. From its origins as a musical format, CDs have grown to encompass other applications. In 1983, following the CD's introduction, Immink and Braat presented the first experiments with erasable compact discs during the 73rd AES Convention.\nIn June 1985, the computer-readable CD-ROM (read-only memory) and, in 1990, CD-Recordable were introduced, also developed by both Sony and Philips. Recordable CDs were a new alternative to tape for recording music and copying music albums without defects introduced in compression used in other digital recording methods. Other newer video formats such as DVD and Blu-ray use the same physical geometry as CD, and most DVD and Blu-ray players are backward compatible with audio CD.\n\nBy the early 2000s, the CD player had largely replaced the audio cassette player as standard equipment in new automobiles, with 2010 being the final model year for any car in the United States to have a factory-equipped cassette player. With the increasing popularity of portable digital audio players, such as mobile phones, and solid state music storage, CD players are being phased out of automobiles in favor of minijack auxiliary inputs, wired connection to USB devices and wireless Bluetooth connection.\n\nMeanwhile, with the advent and popularity of Internet-based distribution of files in lossily-compressed audio formats such as MP3, sales of CDs began to decline in the 2000s. For example, between 2000 and 2008, despite overall growth in music sales and one anomalous year of increase, major-label CD sales declined overall by 20%, although independent and DIY music sales may be tracking better according to figures released 30 March 2009, and CDs still continue to sell greatly. As of 2012, CDs and DVDs made up only 34 percent of music sales in the United States. , only 24% of music in the United States was purchased on physical media, ⅔ of this consisting of CDs; however, in the same year in Japan, over 80% of music was bought on CDs and other physical formats.\n\nDespite the rapidly declining sales year-over-year, the pervasiveness of the technology remained for a time, with companies placing CDs in pharmacies, supermarkets, and filling station convenience stores targeting buyers least able to use Internet-based distribution. However, in 2018, Best Buy and Target Corporation both announced plans to decrease their focus on CD sales.\n\nSony and Philips received praise for the development of the compact disc from professional organizations. These awards include\n\nA CD is made from thick, polycarbonate plastic and weighs 15–20 grams. From the center outward, components are: the center spindle hole (15 mm), the first-transition area (clamping ring), the clamping area (stacking ring), the second-transition area (mirror band), the program (data) area, and the rim. The inner program area occupies a radius from 25 to 58 mm.\n\nA thin layer of aluminium or, more rarely, gold is applied to the surface, making it reflective. The metal is protected by a film of lacquer normally spin coated directly on the reflective layer. The label is printed on the lacquer layer, usually by screen printing or offset printing.\n\nCD data is represented as tiny indentations known as \"pits\", encoded in a spiral track moulded into the top of the polycarbonate layer. The areas between pits are known as \"lands\". Each pit is approximately 100 nm deep by 500 nm wide, and varies from 850 nm to 3.5 µm in length. The distance between the tracks, the pitch, is 1.6 µm.\n\nA motor within the CD player spins the disc to a scanning velocity of 1.2–1.4 m/s (constant linear velocity) – equivalent to approximately 500 RPM at the inside of the disc, and approximately 200 RPM at the outside edge. (A disc played from beginning to end slows its rotation rate during playback.)\nThe program area is 86.05 cm and the length of the recordable spiral is (86.05 cm / 1.6 µm) = 5.38 km. With a scanning speed of 1.2 m/s, the playing time is 74 minutes, or 650 MiB of data on a CD-ROM. A disc with data packed slightly more densely is tolerated by most players (though some old ones fail). Using a linear velocity of 1.2 m/s and a narrower track pitch of 1.5 µm increases the playing time to 80 minutes, and data capacity to 700 MiB.\n\nA CD is read by focusing a 780 nm wavelength (near infrared) semiconductor laser housed within the CD player, through the bottom of the polycarbonate layer. The change in height between pits and lands results in a difference in the way the light is reflected. By measuring the intensity change with a photodiode, the data can be read from the disc. In order to accommodate the spiral pattern of data, the semiconductor laser is placed on a mobile laser pickup assembly mechanism within the disc tray of any CD player; this mechanism typically takes the form of a hub that slides across a rail or worm gear, though some CD drives (particularly those manufactured by Philips during the 1980s and early 1990s) use a swing arm similar to that seen on a gramophone. This mechanism allows the laser to read information from the centre to the edge of a disc without having to interrupt the spinning of the disc itself.\n\nThe pits and lands do not directly represent the zeros and ones of binary data. Instead, non-return-to-zero, inverted encoding is used: a change from pit to land or land to pit indicates a one, while no change indicates a series of zeros. There must be at least two and no more than ten zeros between each one, which is defined by the length of the pit. This in turn is decoded by reversing the eight-to-fourteen modulation used in mastering the disc, and then reversing the cross-interleaved Reed–Solomon coding, finally revealing the raw data stored on the disc. These encoding techniques (defined in the \"Red Book\") were originally designed for CD Digital Audio, but they later became a standard for almost all CD formats (such as CD-ROM).\n\nCDs are susceptible to damage during handling and from environmental exposure. Pits are much closer to the label side of a disc, enabling defects and contaminants on the clear side to be out of focus during playback. Consequently, CDs are more likely to suffer damage on the label side of the disc. Scratches on the clear side can be repaired by refilling them with similar refractive plastic or by careful polishing. The edges of CDs are sometimes incompletely sealed, allowing gases and liquids to enter the CD and corrode the metal reflective layer and/or interfere with the focus of the laser on the pits, a condition known as disc rot. The fungus \"Geotrichum candidum\" has been found—under conditions of high heat and humidity—to consume the polycarbonate plastic and aluminium found in CDs.\n\nThe digital data on a CD begins at the center of the disc and proceeds toward the edge, which allows adaptation to the different size formats available. Standard CDs are available in two sizes. By far, the most common is in diameter, with a 74- or 80-minute audio capacity and a 650 or 700 MiB (737,280,000-byte) data capacity. The official Philips history says this capacity was specified by Sony executive Norio Ohga so as to be able to contain the entirety of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony on one disc. This is a myth according to Kees Immink, as the code format had not yet been decided in December 1979. The adoption of EFM in June 1980 would have allowed a playing time of 97 minutes for 120 mm diameter or 74 minutes for a disc as small as 100 mm, but instead the information density was lowered by 30% to keep the playing time at 74 minutes. The 120 mm diameter has been adopted by subsequent formats, including Super Audio CD, DVD, HD DVD, and Blu-ray Disc. The 80 mm diameter discs (\"Mini CDs\") can hold up to 24 minutes of music or 210 MiB.\n\nThe logical format of an audio CD (officially Compact Disc Digital Audio or CD-DA) is described in a document produced in 1980 by the format's joint creators, Sony and Philips. The document is known colloquially as the \"Red Book\" CD-DA after the colour of its cover. The format is a two-channel 16-bit PCM encoding at a 44.1 kHz sampling rate per channel. Four-channel sound was to be an allowable option within the \"Red Book\" format, but has never been implemented. Monaural audio has no existing standard on a \"Red Book\" CD; thus, mono source material is usually presented as two identical channels in a standard \"Red Book\" stereo track (i.e., mirrored mono); an MP3 CD, however, can have audio file formats with mono sound.\n\nCD-Text is an extension of the \"Red Book\" specification for audio CD that allows for storage of additional text information (e.g., album name, song name, artist) on a standards-compliant audio CD. The information is stored either in the lead-in area of the CD, where there is roughly five kilobytes of space available, or in the subcode channels R to W on the disc, which can store about 31 megabytes.\n\nCompact Disc + Graphics is a special audio compact disc that contains graphics data in addition to the audio data on the disc. The disc can be played on a regular audio CD player, but when played on a special CD+G player, it can output a graphics signal (typically, the CD+G player is hooked up to a television set or a computer monitor); these graphics are almost exclusively used to display lyrics on a television set for karaoke performers to sing along with. The CD+G format takes advantage of the channels R through W. These six bits store the graphics information.\n\nCD + Extended Graphics (CD+EG, also known as CD+XG) is an improved variant of the Compact Disc + Graphics (CD+G) format. Like CD+G, CD+EG uses basic CD-ROM features to display text and video information in addition to the music being played. This extra data is stored in subcode channels R-W. Very few, if any, CD+EG discs have been published.\n\nSuper Audio CD (SACD) is a high-resolution read-only optical audio disc format that was designed to provide higher fidelity digital audio reproduction than the \"Red Book\". Introduced in 1999, it was developed by Sony and Philips, the same companies that created the \"Red Book\". SACD was in a format war with DVD-Audio, but neither has replaced audio CDs. The SACD standard is referred to the \"Scarlet Book\" standard.\n\nTitles in the SACD format can be issued as hybrid discs; these discs contain the SACD audio stream as well as a standard audio CD layer which is playable in standard CD players, thus making them backward compatible.\n\nCD-MIDI is a format used to store music-performance data, which upon playback is performed by electronic instruments that synthesize the audio. Hence, unlike the original \"Red Book\" CD-DA, these recordings are not digitally sampled audio recordings. The CD-MIDI format is defined as an extension of the original \"Red Book\".\n\nFor the first few years of its existence, the CD was a medium used purely for audio. However, in 1988, the \"Yellow Book\" CD-ROM standard was established by Sony and Philips, which defined a non-volatile optical data computer data storage medium using the same physical format as audio compact discs, readable by a computer with a CD-ROM drive.\n\nVideo CD (VCD, View CD, and Compact Disc digital video) is a standard digital format for storing video media on a CD. VCDs are playable in dedicated VCD players, most modern DVD-Video players, personal computers, and some video game consoles.\n\nThe VCD standard was created in 1993 by Sony, Philips, Matsushita, and JVC and is referred to as the \"White Book\" standard.\n\nOverall picture quality is intended to be comparable to VHS video. Poorly compressed VCD video can sometimes be lower quality than VHS video, but VCD exhibits block artifacts rather than analog noise and does not deteriorate further with each use.\n\n352x240 (or SIF) resolution was chosen because it is half the vertical and half the horizontal resolution of NTSC video. 352x288 is similarly one quarter PAL/SECAM resolution. This approximates the (overall) resolution of an analog VHS tape, which, although it has double the number of (vertical) scan lines, has a much lower horizontal resolution.\n\nSuper Video CD (Super Video Compact Disc or SVCD) is a format used for storing video media on standard compact discs. SVCD was intended as a successor to VCD and an alternative to DVD-Video and falls somewhere between both in terms of technical capability and picture quality.\n\nSVCD has two thirds the resolution of DVD, and over 2.7 times the resolution of VCD. One CD-R disc can hold up to 60 minutes of standard quality SVCD-format video. While no specific limit on SVCD video length is mandated by the specification, one must lower the video bit rate, and therefore quality, to accommodate very long videos. It is usually difficult to fit much more than 100 minutes of video onto one SVCD without incurring significant quality loss, and many hardware players are unable to play video with an instantaneous bit rate lower than 300 to 600 kilobits per second.\n\nPhoto CD is a system designed by Kodak for digitizing and storing photos on a CD. Launched in 1992, the discs were designed to hold nearly 100 high-quality images, scanned prints and slides using special proprietary encoding. Photo CDs are defined in the \"Beige Book\" and conform to the CD-ROM XA and CD-i Bridge specifications as well. They are intended to play on CD-i players, Photo CD players and any computer with suitable software (irrespective of operating system). The images can also be printed out on photographic paper with a special Kodak machine. This format is not to be confused with Kodak Picture CD, which is a consumer product in CD-ROM format.\n\nThe Philips \"Green Book\" specifies a standard for interactive multimedia compact discs designed for CD-i players (1993). CD-i discs can contain audio tracks which can be played on regular CD players, but CD-i discs are not compatible with most CD-ROM drives and software. The CD-i Ready specification was later created to improve compatibility with audio CD players, and the CD-i Bridge specification was added to create CD-i compatible discs that can be accessed by regular CD-ROM drives.\n\nPhilips defined a format similar to CD-i called CD-i Ready, which puts CD-i software and data into the pregap of track 1. This format was supposed to be more compatible with older audio CD players.\n\nEnhanced Music CD, also known as CD Extra or CD Plus, is a format which combines audio tracks and data tracks on the same disc by putting audio tracks in a first session and data in a second session. It was developed by Philips and Sony, and it is defined in the \"Blue Book\".\n\nVinylDisc is the hybrid of a standard audio CD and the vinyl record. The vinyl layer on the disc's label side can hold approximately three minutes of music.\n\nIn 1995, material costs were 30 cents for the jewel case and 10 to 15 cents for the CD. Wholesale cost of CDs was $0.75 to $1.15, which retailed for $16.98. On average, the store received 35 percent of the retail price, the record company 27 percent, the artist 16 percent, the manufacturer 13 percent, and the distributor 9 percent. When 8-track tapes, cassette tapes, and CDs were introduced, each was marketed at a higher price than the format they succeeded, even though the cost to produce the media was reduced. This was done because the apparent value increased. This continued from vinyl to CDs but was broken when Apple marketed MP3s for $0.99, and albums for $9.99. The incremental cost, though, to produce an MP3 is very small.\n\nRecordable Compact Discs, CD-Rs, are injection-molded with a \"blank\" data spiral. A photosensitive dye is then applied, after which the discs are metalized and lacquer-coated. The write laser of the CD recorder changes the colour of the dye to allow the read laser of a standard CD player to see the data, just as it would with a standard stamped disc. The resulting discs can be read by most CD-ROM drives and played in most audio CD players. CD-Rs follow the \"Orange Book\" standard.\n\nCD-R recordings are designed to be permanent. Over time, the dye's physical characteristics may change causing read errors and data loss until the reading device cannot recover with error correction methods. The design life is from 20 to 100 years, depending on the quality of the discs, the quality of the writing drive, and storage conditions. However, testing has demonstrated such degradation of some discs in as little as 18 months under normal storage conditions. This failure is known as disc rot, for which there are several, mostly environmental, reasons.\n\nThe recordable audio CD is designed to be used in a consumer audio CD recorder. These consumer audio CD recorders use SCMS (Serial Copy Management System), an early form of digital rights management (DRM), to conform to the AHRA (Audio Home Recording Act). The Recordable Audio CD is typically somewhat more expensive than CD-R due to lower production volume and a 3% AHRA royalty used to compensate the music industry for the making of a copy.\n\nHigh-capacity recordable CD is a higher-density recording format that can hold 90 or 99 minutes of audio on a disc (compared to about 80 minutes for \"Red Book\" audio) or 30 minutes of audio on an disc (compared to about 24 minutes for \"Red Book\" audio). The higher capacity is incompatible with some recorders and recording software.\n\nCD-RW is a re-recordable medium that uses a metallic alloy instead of a dye. The write laser in this case is used to heat and alter the properties (amorphous vs. crystalline) of the alloy, and hence change its reflectivity. A CD-RW does not have as great a difference in reflectivity as a pressed CD or a CD-R, and so many earlier CD audio players \"cannot\" read CD-RW discs, although \"most\" later CD audio players and stand-alone DVD players can. CD-RWs follow the \"Orange Book\" standard.\n\nThe ReWritable Audio CD is designed to be used in a consumer audio CD recorder, which will not (without modification) accept standard CD-RW discs. These consumer audio CD recorders use the Serial Copy Management System (SCMS), an early form of digital rights management (DRM), to conform to the United States' Audio Home Recording Act (AHRA). The ReWritable Audio CD is typically somewhat more expensive than CD-RW due to (a) lower volume and (b) a 3% AHRA royalty used to compensate the music industry for the making of a copy.\n\nDue to technical limitations, the original ReWritable CD could be written no faster than 4x speed. High Speed ReWritable CD has a different design, which permits writing at speeds ranging from 4x to 12x. Original CD-RW drives can only write to original ReWritable CDs. High Speed CD-RW drives can typically write to both original ReWritable CDs and High Speed ReWritable CDs. Both types of CD-RW discs can be read in most CD drives. Higher speed CD-RW discs, Ultra Speed (16x to 24x write speed) and Ultra Speed+ (32x write speed) are now available.\n\nThe \"Red Book\" audio specification, except for a simple \"anti-copy\" statement in the subcode, does not include any copy protection mechanism. Known at least as early as 2001, attempts were made by record companies to market \"copy-protected\" non-standard compact discs, which cannot be ripped, or copied, to hard drives or easily converted to other formats (like FLAC, MP3 or Vorbis). One major drawback to these copy-protected discs is that most will not play on either computer CD-ROM drives or some standalone CD players that use CD-ROM mechanisms. Philips has stated that such discs are not permitted to bear the trademarked \"Compact Disc Digital Audio\" logo because they violate the \"Red Book\" specifications. Numerous copy-protection systems have been countered by readily available, often free, software, or even by simply turning off automatic AutoPlay to prevent the running of the DRM executable program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3633569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3633569", "title": "Corporate Fraud Task Force", "text": "Corporate Fraud Task Force\n\nThe Corporate Fraud Task Force was a United States Federal Government-wide task force formed by President George W. Bush in the wake of corporate accounting scandals that shook investor confidence. Task Force establishment occurred through delegated legislation with the issuance of of July 9, 2002, ‘‘\"Establishment of the Corporate Fraud Task Force\"’’.\n\nPresident Bush had remarked in the address announcing the creation of CFTF that...\n\nAccording to CNN at the time:\n\nThe following \"Department officials\" were standing members of the President's Corporate Fraud Task Force:\n\nThe following \"agency officials\" made up the membership in the interagency group also within the President's Corporate Fraud Task Force:\n\nThe Corporate Fraud Task Force was terminated on November 17, 2009 by President Barack Obama with the issuance of , entitled ‘‘\"Establishment of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force\"’’.\n\n"}
{"id": "19622554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19622554", "title": "Culpa in contrahendo", "text": "Culpa in contrahendo\n\nCulpa in contrahendo is a Latin expression meaning \"fault in conclusion of a contract\". It is an important concept in contract law for many civil law countries, which recognize a clear duty to negotiate with care, and not to lead a negotiating partner to act to his detriment before a firm contract is concluded. In German contract law, §311 BGB lists a number of steps by which an obligation to pay damages may be created.\n\nBy contrast, in English contract law, and many other common law jurisdictions, there has been stulted judicial acceptance of this concept. The doctrine of estoppel has been mooted by academics as a good model, but judges have refused to let it be a sidestep of the doctrine of consideration, saying estoppel must be a shield not a sword, and calling instead for Parliamentary intervention. On the other hand, in the case of land, proprietary estoppel effectively created obligations regardless of any pre-existing contract. In the United States, however, courts have allowed promissory estoppel to function as a substitute for the consideration doctrine. This movement was stimulated by the acceptance of the concept in section 90 of the first \"Restatement of Contracts\".\n\nRudolf von Jhering is credited with developing the \"culpa in contrahendo\" doctrine. Originally, according to the prevailing interpretation of the German Civil Code, there was no such legal doctrine. The courts saw a gap in the law and used the \"culpa in contrahendo\" doctrine to fill it.\n\nSince the 2001 reform of the law of obligations, \"culpa in contrahendo\" is provided for by statute. (§311(2) in connection with §§280(1) and 241(2) of the German Civil Code).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49154358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49154358", "title": "Czech Police Museum", "text": "Czech Police Museum\n\nCzech Police Museum – (in Czech – Muzeum Policie České republiky - Museum of Police of the Czech Republic) is a museum located in the historical centre of Prague dedicated to the history of law enforcement on the territory of the Czech Republic and former Czechoslovakia.\nThe museum is located on the grounds of the former Augustinian monastery, in the Karlov neighbourhood in the New Town of Prague, which was founded in 1350 by Charles IV. The monastery was previously the Church of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary and St Charles the Great.\nWhen monastery was abolished by Emperor Joseph II, it passed into the possession of the state, and served at first as a warehouse, later as hospital for the treatment of infectious diseases, almshouse and during World War I a centre for army convalescents. \nIn the 1960s it was acquired by the Ministry of the Interior, which set it up as a state regional archive and later a museum. \nThe current museum documents the history and activities of the state security corps, presenting their specialised departments including criminal investigation, from 1918 to the present. This museum documents and presents the history, development and operation of law enforcement forces in the former Czechoslovakia since its inception to the present. In addition to permanent exhibitions concerning forensic science, criminal investigation, borders protection or history of petty crimes in Old Prague, the museum also has temporary exhibitions. The museum is open daily except Monday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4769548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769548", "title": "Czech nationality law", "text": "Czech nationality law\n\nThe citizenship law of the Czech Republic is based on the principles of jus sanguinis or \"right by blood\". In other words, descent from a Czech parent is the primary method of acquiring Czech citizenship (together with naturalisation). Birth on Czech territory without a Czech parent is in itself insufficient for the conferral of Czech citizenship. Every Czech citizen is also a citizen of the European Union. The law came into effect on 1 January 1993, the date of the dissolution of Czechoslovakia, and has been amended in 1993, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2002, 2003, and 2005. Since 1 January 2014, multiple citizenship under Czech law is allowed.\n\nThe principle of jus sanguinis is used to determine eligibility for citizenship, as is typical in Europe. In principle, any person born to a Czech citizen is a Czech citizen at birth. Whether the person is born in the Czech Republic or elsewhere is irrelevant. Where only the father is Czech, and the parents are unmarried, proof of paternity is required - by the parents making a concerted declaration before the Registry Office or a court. Children born in the Czech Republic to non-Czech parents do not acquire Czech citizenship unless:\n\n\nChildren aged less than 15 years found on the territory of the Czech Republic (where identity of the parents cannot be established) are deemed to be Czech citizens.\n\nDuring the communist era (1948–89) hundreds of thousands of Czechoslovakian citizens had emigrated into other parts of the West. The regime punished emigration by removing Czechoslovak citizenship, along with property confiscation and \"in absentia\" prison sentences. Since the Velvet Revolution in 1989, many emigrants demanded their citizenship be restored. Between 1999 and 2004, a special measure allowed them to regain the citizenship, but a few people took advantage of the wording, which \"granted\" citizenship rather than \"restored\" it and so got dual citizenship. A few people from Volhynia and Romania also got citizenship.\n\nIf a person was a citizen of the Czech and Slovak Federative Republic as of 31 December 1992, he may declare citizenship of either the Czech Republic or Slovakia (gaining Slovak citizenship) assuming he does not have any other citizenship. The Slovak provision allowing for this grant expired in 1993, however the Czech equivalent remains in the citizenship law.\n\nResident foreigners or stateless persons who have for at least five years held a right of permanent residence and have resided in the Czech Republic for most of that time can apply for Czech naturalisation if they can prove they have lost or will lose their original citizenship upon being granted Czech citizenship (valid till December 31, 2013), are of good character and are proficient in the Czech language (current or former Slovak citizens are exempt from language requirements). Parents can apply for their children under 15 years of age, and naturalisation occurs at the discretion of the Interior Ministry.\n\nThe residence requirement can be waived if the person has a permanent residence permit and\n\nThe involuntary loss of citizenship is constitutionally prohibited. However, before the 2013 Citizenship Act (effective as of January 1, 2014) it was sometimes argued by emigrants and emigrant groups that the restrictions on dual citizenship were a form of involuntary deprivation of citizenship.\n\nCzech citizenship can be renounced voluntarily if doing so wouldn't cause one to be stateless unless it is in connection with a marriage or by birth – the Czech Republic does not require children born with another nationality to renounce it upon reaching maturity.\n\nThe Czech Ministry of Interior can waive all citizenship requirements if the person cannot be released from the original citizenship, if the other state refuses to issue confirmation of the loss of citizenship, if the loss of foreign citizenship would result in persecution, if it is in the political interests of the Czech Republic, or if the applicant has resided on the territory of what is today the Czech Republic for at least twenty years.\n\nCzech citizenship can be proved by presenting a national identification card (\"občanský průkaz\"), a travel document (such as a Czech passport), a proof of citizenship document, or a marriage certificate (if citizenship details are included).\n\nCzech Republic allows its citizens to hold foreign citizenship in addition to their Czech citizenship. Some countries, however, do not permit multiple citizenship e.g. adults who acquired Czech and Japanese citizenship by birth must declare, to the latter's Ministry of Justice, before turning 22, which citizenship they want to keep.\n\nBecause Czech Republic forms part of the European Union, Czech citizens are also citizens of the European Union under European Union law and thus enjoy rights of free movement and have the right to vote in elections for the European Parliament. When in a non-EU country where there is no Czech embassy, Czech citizens have the right to get consular protection from the embassy of any other EU country present in that country. Czech citizens can live and work in any country within the EU as a result of the right of free movement and residence granted in Article 21 of the EU Treaty.\n\nVisa requirements for Czech citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Czech Republic. As of May 2018, Czech citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 182 countries and territories, ranking the Czech passport 7th in terms of travel freedom (tied with Maltese and New Zealand passports) according to the Henley Passport Index.\n\nIn 2017, The Czech nationality is ranked fifteenth in Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition, to travel freedom on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4412169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4412169", "title": "Deregulation of the Texas electricity market", "text": "Deregulation of the Texas electricity market\n\nElectricity deregulation in Texas, approved by Texas Senate Bill 7 on January 1, 2002, calls for the creation of the Electric Utility Restructuring Legislative Oversight Committee to oversee implementation of the bill. According to the law, deregulation would be phased in over several years.\n\nAs a result, 85% of Texas power consumers (those served by a company not owned by a municipality or a utility cooperative) can choose their electricity service from a variety of retail electric providers (REPs), including the incumbent utility. The incumbent utility in the area still owns and maintains the local power lines (and is the company to call in the event of a power outage) and is not subject to deregulation. Customers served by cooperatives or municipal utilities can choose an alternate REP only if the utility has \"opted in\" to deregulation; to date, only the area served by the Nueces Electric Cooperative has chosen to opt in.\n\nSince 2002, approximately 85% of commercial and industrial consumers have switched power providers at least once. Approximately 40% of residential consumers in deregulated areas have switched from the former incumbent provider to a competitive REP. REPs providing service in the state include: AmeriPower, TriEagle Energy, Acacia Energy, Ambit Energy, Breeze Energy, Clearview Energy, Green Mountain Energy, Conservice Energy, Iluminar Energy, Now Power, Snap Energy, Entrust Energy, Bounce Energy, Champion Energy, Shnye Energy, Cirro Energy, Direct Energy, Dynowatt, First Texas Energy Corporation, Frontier Utilities, Gexa Energy, Glacial Energy, Just Energy, Kinetic Energy, Mega Energy, APG&E, Adjacent Energy, Spark Energy, StarTex Power, Stream Energy, Tech Electricity, Texas Power, TXU Energy, XOOM Energy and 4Change Energy.\n\nAccording to a 2014 report by the Texas Coalition for Affordable Power (TCAP), \"deregulation cost Texans about $22 billion from 2002 to 2012. And residents in the deregulated market pay prices that are considerably higher than those who live in parts of the state that are still regulated. For example, TCAP found that the average consumer living in one of the areas that opted out of deregulation, such as Austin and San Antonio, paid $288 less in 2012 than consumers in the deregulated areas.\"\n\nHowever, the report concluded that re-regulating the market would not solve the issue. TCAP instead offered a series of reforms designed to increase market efficiency.\n\nTexas has electricity consumption of $24 billion a year, the highest among the U.S. states. Its annual consumption is comparable to that of Great Britain and Spain, and if the state were an independent nation, its electricity market would be the 11th largest in the world. Texas produces the most wind electricity in the U.S., but also has the highest Carbon Dioxide Emissions of any state. As of 2012, Texas residential electricity rates ranked 31st in the United States and average monthly residential electric bills in Texas were the 5th highest in the nation.\n\nThe law designated the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) to be the authority to oversee grid reliability and operations so as to ensure no particular buyer or seller would gain an unfair advantage in the market.\n\nIncluded within SB7 was the notion of the \"price to beat\" or PTB, an idea of a regulated rate governing the pricing behavior of the former utilities.\n\nAccording to a typical economic theory, prices are optimally determined in a fair and transparent market, and not by a political or academic body. In deregulation of electricity markets, one immediate concern with pricing is that incumbent electricity providers would undercut the prices of new entrants, preventing competition and perpetuating the existing monopoly of providers. Thus, the SB7 bill introduced a phase-in period during which a price \"floor\" would be established (for incumbent electricity companies) to prevent this predatory practice, allowing new market entrants to become established. New market entrants could charge a price below the price to beat, but incumbents could not. This period was to last from 2002 to January 1, 2007. As of 2007 Texas investor owned utility affiliates no longer have price to beat tariffs.\n\nHow is the price to beat established?\n\nIn order to prompt entry into the market, the price to beat would have to be \"high enough\" to allow for a modest profit by new entrants. Thus, it had to be above the cost of inputs such as natural gas and coal. For example, a price to beat fixed at the actual wholesale procurement price of electricity does not give potential entrants a margin to compete against incumbent utilities. Second, the price to beat would have to be \"reasonably low,\" to enable as many customers as possible to continue to consume electricity during the transition period.\n\nOne desired effect of the competition is lower electricity rates. In the first few years after the deregulation in 2002, the residential rate for electricity increased seven times, with the price to beat at around 15 cents per kilowatt hour (as of July 26, 2006, www.powertochoose.org) in 2006. However, while prices to customers increased 43% from 2002 to 2004, the costs of inputs rose faster, by 63%, showing that not all increases have been borne by consumers. (See Competition and entry of new firms above for discussion on the relationship between retail prices, inputs, and investment.)\n\nCompared to the rest of the nation, data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration which publishes annual state electric prices shows that Texas' electric prices did rise above the national average immediately after deregulation from 2003 to 2009, but, from 2010 to 2015 have moved significantly below the national average price per kWh, with a total cost of $0.0863 per kWh in Texas in 2015 vs. $0.1042 nationally, or 17 percent lower in Texas. Between 2002-2014 the total cost to Texas consumers is estimated to be $24B, an average of $5,100 per household, more than comparable markets under state regulation.\nThe price to beat seemed to accomplish its goal of attracting competitors to the market during the period through January 1, 2007. It allowed competitors to enter the market without allowing the incumbents to undercut them in price. It has also given energy consumers the ability to compare energy rates offered by different providers. The less-regulated providers undercut the price to beat by only a small margin given that they must balance lower prices (to attract customers and build market share) with higher prices (needed to reinvest in new power plants). Due to the small difference in competing prices and slow (yearly or so) \"buying\" process, price decrease due to competition was very slow, and it took a few years to offset the original increase by \"traditional\" electric providers and move to lower rates.\n\nOne of the benchmarks of a successful free market is the range of choice provided to customers. Choice can be viewed both in terms of the number of firms active in the market as well as the variety of products those firms offer to consumers. In the first decade of retail electric deregulation in Texas, the market experienced dramatic changes in both metrics. In 2002, residential customers in the Dallas-Fort area could choose between 10 retail electric providers offers a total of 11 price plans. By the end of 2012, there were 45 retail electric providers offering 258 different price plans to residential customers in that market. Similar increases in the number of retail electric providers and available plans have been realized in other deregulated electricity market areas with the state.\n\nIn environmental impact, results are mixed. With the ability to invest profits to satisfy further energy demand, producers like TXU are proposing eleven new coal-fired powerplants. Coal powerplants are cheaper than natural gas-fired powerplants, but produce more pollution. When the private equity firms Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Texas Pacific Group announced the take-over of TXU, the company which was known for charging the highest rates in the state and were losing customers, they called off plans for eight of the coal plants. TXU had invested more heavily in the other three. A few weeks later the buyers announced plans for two cleaner IGCC coal plants.\n\nThere are positive environmental impacts from retail price deregulation as well. The profitable and growing Texas electricity market has drawn considerable investment by wind-turbine companies. In July 2006, Texas surpassed California in wind energy production.\n\nAnother positive environmental impact is the effect of higher energy prices on consumer choices, similar to the US market trend toward more fuel-efficient cars. As electric bills have risen, residents are reducing their electrical usage by using more moderate thermostat settings, installing insulation, installing solar screens, and other such activities. Texas utilities (such as Austin Energy) are also installing advanced electricity meters that may one day enable variable pricing based on the time of day. This would permit energy customers to save money by further tailoring their consumption based on whether it occurred during the peak demand period (high cost/high pollution) or the off-peak (night time).\n\nDue to the increased usage of natural gas immediately after deregulation, new-era energy tools such as wind power and smart-grid technology were greatly aided. Texas' first \"renewable portfolio standard\" — or requirement that the state's utilities get a certain amount of their power from renewable energy like wind — was signed into law in 1999, as part of the same legislation that deregulated the electric market.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4102233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4102233", "title": "Drain commissioner", "text": "Drain commissioner\n\nA drain commissioner is an elected official in county government of the U.S. state of Michigan who is responsible for planning, developing and maintaining surface water drainage systems under Public Act 40 of 1956 . In counties with a population under 12,000, the office of drain commissioner may be abolished with its statutory duties and responsibilities performed by the county's board of road commissioners. Unlike other county-wide officeholders, drain commissioners were created by statute and are not mandated by the Michigan Constitution. Drain commissioners are elected on the partisan ballot in presidential election years for a term of four years.\n\nThe office of drain commissioner dates to Michigan's statehood in 1837, as much of the state's land was swamps and wetlands. An early bill passed by the Michigan Legislature was a drainage act, which led to the creation of drain commissioners at the township level. In 1897, township drain commissioners were abolished and the position was transferred to county government.\n\nOver the years, proposals have been made to reform and even abolish the office. Successful efforts have changed the law to allow individual counties to rename the office to public works commissioner or water resources commissioner. \n\nAn unsuccessful reform proposal in 2009 was led by the then-drain commissioner of Cheboygan County, Dennis Lennox, who sought to abolish the office in counties with a population of less than 35,000. This proposal was introduced in both houses of the Legislature after being approved by the Cheboygan County Board of Commissioners.\n\nIn 2012, the Schoolcraft County Board of Commissioners abolished the office of drain commissioner and transferred its duties and responsibilities to the county's road commissioners.\n\nIt is the only elected office in Michigan that can directly levy taxes and borrow money without a vote of the people. This led one drain commissioner to declare he is more powerful than the governor. While the powers of the drain commissioner are immense, the office has become a sinecure in some counties, meaning it requires little to no responsibility. \n\nNevertheless, drain commissioners are responsible for overseeing the county's drains. In Michigan, a drain may be a natural or artificial creek or ditch, or a massive pipe for carrying storm water. The territory served by a particular drain, its watershed, is typically organized as a drainage district and the drain commissioner levies tax assessments and directs construction or maintenance of drains and culverts on behalf of each district. Drainage districts are public corporations, with legal rights similar to other political subdivisions of state government. Counties typically have dozens even hundreds of drainage districts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793707", "title": "Economic law", "text": "Economic law\n\nIn the legal system of the Soviet Union, economic law was the legal theory and system under which economic relations were a legal discipline independent of criminal law and civil law. In the Law of the United States and some other legal systems this approximately corresponds to the commercial law (business law).\n\nIn the Soviet legal system, the purpose of the economic law is to regulate the relations arising from the economic activities. The theory of the independence of the economic law was pursued after the 21st Congress of the CPSU of 1959, with the principal proponent being V.V. Laptev. After debate, this position was codified by the decrees of the CPSU and the USSR Council of Ministers during 1970–1975 and finalized in the 1977 Soviet Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "13467968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467968", "title": "Facilitating payment", "text": "Facilitating payment\n\nA facilitating payment is a certain type of payment to foreign officials that is not considered to be bribery according to legislations of some states as well as in the international anti-bribery conventions, e.g., coming from the OECD.\n\nFor legal purposes, it is distinguished from bribery, however the distinction is often blurred. Determining whether a payment is a facilitating one may be difficult and depend on the circumstances. The value of the payment is not immediately relevant, however the greater the value, the higher are chances that it will be a red flag for law enforcement. Small unofficial payments are customary and even legal in some countries, nevertheless they may present a risk of liability according to the laws of the host country. There also exists a slippery slope danger of evolving into dubious payments.\n\nWhile being legal, facilitating payments are still considered to be questionable from the point of view of business ethics. The following arguments have been made:\n\nMany companies therefore restrict or severely limit making facilitating payments in their policies, however this practice is not yet widespread. For example, , in Australia, among the S&P ASX 100 only 24 companies control facilitating payments and only 15 are reported to prohibit them.\n\nOECD defines a payment to be a facilitating one if it is paid to government employees to speed up an administrative process where the outcome is already pre-determined.\n\n, the Australian law has discrepancies as to the definition of the facilitating payment.\n\nThe Criminal Code defines a facilitating payment to be a payment which is \n\nThe Income Tax Assessment Act as amended in 1999 permit companies claim facilitation payments as deductions (before 1999 bribes were also valid deductions), but its definition does not refer to the size of the payment.\n\nMany Australian states override the federal legislation and define facilitating payments as illegal.\n\nIn Russia this phrase (in English) means payment to a bureaucrat when he does off-job extra work for a private entity by helping deal with his ministry. It is generally unclear whether it has a part of corruption in it. It was generally considered legal, until economy minister Ulyukaev received 8 years jail for it. After this case, Russian bureaucrats are reported to heavily refrain from this practice.\n\n, subsequent to the Bribery Act, the United Kingdom does not recognize the legality of facilitating payments and does not draw any distinction from bribes. However the OECD notes that the UK is unlikely to prosecute for minor facilitating payments in the areas where it is a common practice. The Ministry of Justice guidance, however, confirms that prosecutors will exercise discretion in determining whether to prosecute. In addition, informal guidance received from the SFO indicate that where it is considering action, it will be guided by the following six principles:\n\nWithin the United States federal legislation, a facilitating payment or \"grease payment\", as defined by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) of 1977 and clarified in its 1988 amendments, is a payment to a foreign official, political party or party official for \"routine governmental action\", such as processing papers, issuing permits, and other actions of an official, in order to expedite performance of duties of non-discretionary nature, i.e., which they are already bound to perform. The payment is not intended to influence the outcome of the official's action, only its timing. Facilitation payments are one of the few exceptions from anti-bribery prohibitions of the law.\n\nPrior to the 1988 amendments, the exclusion of \"grease payments\" was via the definition of the \"foreign official\", which did not include persons without discretionary (decision-making) duties, e.g., ones with clerical functions. The major drawback of this approach is that often it is difficult to properly identify the scope of duties of a foreign official. The 1988 amendment eliminated this drawback by placing the emphasis on the purpose of the payment rather than on the duties of the recipient. At the same time the scope of the \"routine governmental actions\" in question was made sufficiently narrow and supplied with detailed examples.\n"}
{"id": "5253191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5253191", "title": "Frank Van Dun", "text": "Frank Van Dun\n\nFrank Van Dun (born February 22, 1947, Antwerp) is a Belgian law philosopher and libertarian natural law theorist. He is associated with the law faculty of the University of Ghent.\n\nVan Dun published his book \"Het Fundamenteel Rechtsbeginsel\" (Dutch for \"The Fundamental Principle of Law\") in 1983, in which he argued that a rationally convincing answer to the question \"what is law?\" can only be found by respecting dialogue and argumentation. He thus adheres to argumentation ethics justification of private law society or anarcho-capitalism. Based on this premise, Van Dun argues that every natural person (individual) has a lawful claim on his life, freedom and property. This claim is absolute, insofar it does not prohibit the equivalent claims of other natural persons, i.e. insofar as argumentation is respected.\n\nVan Dun clearly distinguishes the \"lawful\" (ius) and the \"legal\" (lex). In his view, Western positive law systems reduce people to human resources, artificial persons with merely legal status. Positive law defines the \"legal\" but can only be \"lawful\" insofar as individuals have full secession rights from the institutional framework that is making said positive law. It logically follows that no judge can be forced upon a person who is willing to search a lawful solution for any conflict.\n\nVan Dun claims that the correct interpretation of the non-aggression principle (NAP) is praxeological rather than physical, because property is a \"means of action\". He thus claims \"freedom before property\" instead of \"freedom as property\". This implies that it's not necessarily only the last action in the chain of social causations that is unlawful. Consider the following examples:\n\nThe \"freedom before property\" interpretation of the NAP is not widely accepted within the libertarian community. For example, Walter Block adheres to the \"freedom as property\" interpretation.\n\nVan Dun sees human rights as fundamentally different from the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\". According to him when you have a right you have a right. Therefore, human rights are, e.g., the right of self-determination for one's own life, liberty and the products of one's liberty (property) and call these rights fundamental rights. This is not the case in the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\". He sees the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\" equivalent to \"Animal Rights\", since the rights enumerated in the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\" are sometimes conflicting with each other and many of these rights are only valid insofar as legislation of the government is not contradicting it. Therefore, he sees rulers which are acting as masters of the \"human\" animals (i.e. \"slaves\") in the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\".\n\nThe Belgian newspaper \"Le Soir\" reported on 8 June 2012, that between 1988 and 2000, Belgian scientists Van Dun and Marcel Javeau were paid by the tobacco lobby, through the group 'Associates for Research in the Science of Enjoyment' (ARISE). Van Dun responded in the Belgian \"Eos-magazine\" that while indeed he gave two presentations for ARISE in which he presented his visions, he wasn't paid to do so and he never was a member of ARISE. However, the Legacy Tobacco Documents Library contains a document that lists Van Dun as an \"associate\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14441413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14441413", "title": "Government platform", "text": "Government platform\n\nA government platform is a political platform of a government. A new government, when entering office, lists their objectives to be accomplished while in office.\n\nGovernment platforms are especially important in coalition governments, where several parties with possibly conflicting political platforms agree on a compromise. The distinction between a party platform and a government platform may be blurred in countries where single parties often form governments, but the distinction is still significant. \n\n"}
{"id": "1725625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725625", "title": "Handschu agreement", "text": "Handschu agreement\n\nThe Handschu agreement is a set of guidelines that regulate police behavior in New York City with regard to political activity.\n\nIn 1971, 21 members of the Black Panther Party were tried for conspiracy to blow up police stations and department stores. They were acquitted of all charges after only 90 minutes of jury deliberation. The trial revealed the extent to which the NYPD had infiltrated and kept dossiers on not only the Black Panthers and other radical groups, but also on anti-war groups, gay rights activists, educational reform advocates, religious groups, and civic organizations.\n\nThe Handschu agreement, or decree, was the result of a class-action lawsuit filed against the City of New York, its Police Commissioner and the Intelligence Division of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) on behalf of Barbara Handschu and fifteen other plaintiffs affiliated with various political or ideological associations and organizations, known as \"Handschu v. Special Services Division\", 605 F.Supp. 1384, affirmed 787 F.2d 828. The plaintiffs claimed that \"informers and infiltrators provoked, solicited and induced members of lawful political and social groups to engage in unlawful activities\"; that files were maintained with respect to \"persons, places, and activities entirely unrelated to legitimate law enforcement purposes, such as those attending meetings of lawful organizations\"; and that information from these files was made available to academic institutions, prospective employers, licensing agencies and others. In addition, plaintiffs protested seven types of police misconduct: (1) the use of informers; (2) infiltration; (3) interrogation; (4) overt surveillance; (5) summary punishment; (6) intelligence gathering; and (7) electronic surveillance, and alleged that these police practices which punished and repressed lawful dissent had had a \"chilling effect\" upon the exercise of freedom of speech, assembly and association, that they violated constitutional prohibitions against unreasonable searches and seizures, and that they abridged rights of privacy and due process.\n\nIn 1985, the court found that police surveillance of political activity violated constitutional protections of free speech. This ruling resulted in a consent decree which prohibited the NYPD from engaging \"in any investigation of political activity except through the … Intelligence Division [of the Police Department]\" and required that any \"such investigations shall be conducted\" only in accordance with the Guidelines incorporated into the Decree. The Guidelines further prohibited the Intelligence Division from \"commencing an investigation\" into the political, ideological or religious activities of an individual or group unless \"specific information has been received by the Police Department that a person or group engaged in political activity is engaged in, about to engage in or has threatened to engage in conduct which constitutes a crime….\"\n\nAccording to the terms of the agreement, purely political activity can only be investigated by the Public Security Section (PSS) of the NYPD's Intelligence Division, and then only when the Section suspects criminal activity. When the PSS does suspect criminal activity on the part of political groups, it must obtain a warrant from the three-person Handschu Authority, a commission made up of two deputy commissioners and a mayor-appointed civilian.\n\nThe agreement also prohibits indiscriminate police videorecording and photographing of public gatherings when there is no indication that unlawful activity is occurring.\n\nThe department is also prohibited from sharing information pertaining to political activity with other law enforcement agencies unless those agencies agree to abide by the terms of the Handschu agreement.\n\nThe court order mandates the compiling of annual, publicly available reports listing the surveillance requests made by the NYPD and the number of such requests granted.\n\nIn 2002, the NYPD asked federal judge Charles S. Haight, Jr., the judge who presided over the original case, to abrogate numerous provisions of the agreement, claiming that they inhibited the department's ability to prevent future terrorist attacks. The requests, if granted, would allow any branch of the department to investigate any political activity, even without suspicion of criminal activity, but only by accessing publicly available meetings and information \"as members of the public.\" It would further allow the department to perform any type of surveillance of public gatherings deemed Constitutional, which is likely to include videorecording. The department also requested that the function of the Handschu authority be changed to investigating complaints of constitutional violations, which would take away the authority's power to oversee political investigations.\n\nIn regards to the requested changes, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said, \"Today we live in a more dangerous, constantly changing world, one with challenges and threats that were never envisioned when the Handschu guidelines were written.\"\n\nChris Dunn of the New York Civil Liberties Union, called the proposal \"troubling,\" stating that the NYPD \"has no legitimate reason to spy on lawful political activity.\"\n\nFormer New York City mayor Ed Koch, previously a critic of police surveillance, agreed with the proposal to rescind large portions of the Handschu agreement. \"That's the necessary cost of protecting the public in these times where we're dealing with terrorism,\" he said.\n\nOn February 11, 2003, Haight ruled that the NYPD should be permitted to modify the 1985 Decree, but not to the extent originally requested by the City. The judge instructed the city to adapt the U.S. Attorney General's Guidelines on General Crimes, Racketeering Enterprise and Terrorism Enterprise Investigations, issued by Attorney General John Ashcroft in May, 2002. This weakened the original decree in that a preliminary inquiry could be initiated when there is \"information … which indicates the possibility of criminal activity.\"\n\nIn February 2007, Judge Haight ruled that the NYPD had violated the terms of the agreement by videotaping two demonstrations by advocates of the homeless, one in Harlem in March 2005, the other in front of New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg's house in December 2005. On June 13, 2007, Haight reversed the ruling, saying that attorneys for the city had provided new evidence indicating that the protestors may have been \"disorderly.\" Lawyers for the demonstrators vowed to continue fighting to prove that the action was legal and peaceful.\n\n"}
{"id": "57849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57849", "title": "Harrisburg, Pennsylvania", "text": "Harrisburg, Pennsylvania\n\nHarrisburg ( ; Pennsylvania German: \"Harrisbarrig\") is the capital city of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the United States, and the county seat of Dauphin County. With a population of 49,192, it is the 15th largest city in the Commonwealth. It lies on the east bank of the Susquehanna River, west of Philadelphia. Harrisburg is the anchor of the Susquehanna Valley metropolitan area, which had a 2017 estimated population of 571,903, making it the third most populous in Pennsylvania and 96th most populous in the United States.\n\nHarrisburg played a notable role in American history during the Westward Migration, the American Civil War, and the Industrial Revolution. During part of the 19th century, the building of the Pennsylvania Canal and later the Pennsylvania Railroad allowed Harrisburg to become one of the most industrialized cities in the Northeastern United States. The U.S. Navy ship USS \"Harrisburg\", which served from 1918 to 1919 at the end of World War I, was named in honor of the city. In the mid-to-late 20th century, the city's economic fortunes fluctuated with its major industries consisting of government, heavy manufacturing, agriculture, and food services (nearby Hershey is home of the chocolate maker, located just east).\n\nThe Pennsylvania Farm Show, the largest free indoor agriculture exposition in the United States, was first held in Harrisburg in 1917 and has been held there every early-to-mid January since then. Harrisburg also hosts an annual outdoor sports show, the largest of its kind in North America, an auto show, which features a large static display of new as well as classic cars and is renowned nationwide, and Motorama, a two-day event consisting of a car show, motocross racing, remote control car racing, and more. Harrisburg is also known for the Three Mile Island accident, which occurred on March 28, 1979, near Middletown.\n\nIn 2010 \"Forbes\" rated Harrisburg as the second best place in the U.S. to raise a family. Despite the city's recent financial troubles, in 2010 The Daily Beast website ranked 20 metropolitan areas across the country as being recession-proof, and the Harrisburg region landed at No. 7. The financial stability of the region is in part due to the high concentration of state and federal government agencies.\n\nHarrisburg's site along the Susquehanna River is thought to have been inhabited by Native Americans as early as 3000 BC. Known to the Native Americans as \"Peixtin\", or \"Paxtang\", the area was an important resting place and crossroads for Native American traders, as the trails leading from the Delaware to the Ohio rivers, and from the Potomac to the Upper Susquehanna intersected there. The first European contact with Native Americans in Pennsylvania was made by the Englishman, Captain John Smith, who journeyed from Virginia up the Susquehanna River in 1608 and visited with the Susquehanna tribe. In 1719, John Harris, Sr., an English trader, settled here and 14 years later secured grants of in this vicinity. In 1785, John Harris, Jr. made plans to lay out a town on his father's land, which he named Harrisburg. In the spring of 1785, the town was formally surveyed by William Maclay, who was a son-in-law of John Harris, Sr. In 1791, Harrisburg became incorporated, and in October 1812 it was named the Pennsylvania state capital, which it has remained ever since.\nThe assembling here of the highly sectional Harrisburg Convention in 1827 (signaling what may have been the birth of lobbying on a national scale) led to the passage of the high protective-tariff bill of 1828. In 1839, Harrison and Tyler were nominated for President of the United States at the first national convention of the Whig Party of the United States, which was held in Harrisburg.\n\nBefore Harrisburg gained its first industries, it was a scenic, pastoral town, typical of most of the day: compact and surrounded by farmland. In 1822, the impressive brick capitol was completed for $200,000.\n\nIt was Harrisburg's strategic location which gave it an advantage over many other towns. It was settled as a trading post in 1719 at a location important to Westward expansion. The importance of the location was that it was at a pass in a mountain ridge. The Susquehanna River flowed generally west to east at this location, providing a route for boat traffic from the east. The head of navigation was a short distance northwest of the town, where the river flowed through the pass. Persons arriving from the east by boat had to exit at Harrisburg and prepare for an overland journey westward through the mountain pass. Harrisburg assumed importance as a provisioning stop at this point where westward bound pioneers transitioned from river travel to overland travel. It was partly because of its strategic location that the state legislature selected the small town of Harrisburg to become the state capital in 1812.\n\nThe grandeur of the Colonial Revival capitol dominated the quaint town. The streets were dirt, but orderly and platted in grid pattern. The Pennsylvania Canal was built in 1834 and coursed the length of the town. The residential houses were situated on only a few city blocks stretching southward from the capitol. They were mostly one story. No factories were present but there were blacksmith shops and other businesses.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Harrisburg was a significant training center for the Union Army, with tens of thousands of troops passing through Camp Curtin. It was also a major rail center for the Union and a vital link between the Atlantic coast and the Midwest, with several railroads running through the city and spanning the Susquehanna River. As a result of this importance, it was a target of General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia during its two invasions. The first time during the 1862 Maryland Campaign, when Lee planned to capture the city after taking Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, but was prevented from doing so by the Battle of Antietam and his subsequent retreat back into Virginia. The second attempt was made during the Gettysburg Campaign in 1863 and was more substantial. The Skirmish of Sporting Hill took place in June 1863 in Camp Hill, just west of Harrisburg. This is considered by many to have been the northern-most battle of the Civil War.\n\nDuring the first part of the 19th century, Harrisburg was a notable stopping place along the Underground Railroad, as escaped slaves being transported across the Susquehanna River were often fed and supplied before heading north towards Canada.\n\nHarrisburg's importance in the latter half of the 19th century was in the steel industry. It was an important railroad center as well. Steel and iron became dominant industries. Steel and other industries continued to play a major role in the local economy throughout the latter part of the 19th century. The city was the center of enormous railroad traffic and its steel industry supported large furnaces, rolling mills, and machine shops. The Pennsylvania Steel Company plant, which opened in nearby Steelton in 1866, was the first in the country; later operated by Bethlehem Steel.\n\nOn July 3, 1863, the artillery barrage that marked the beginning of Pickett's Charge of the Battle of Gettysburg was heard from Harrisburg, almost 40 miles away.\n\nIts first large scale iron foundries were put into operation shortly after 1850.\nAs industries nationwide entered a phase of great expansion and technological improvement, so did industries – and in particular the steel industry – in Harrisburg. This can be attributed to a combination of factors that were typical of what existed in other successful industrial cities: rapid rail expansion; nearby markets for goods; and nearby sources for raw product.\nWith Harrisburg poised for growth in steel production, the Borough of Steelton became the ideal location for this type of industry. It was a wide swath of flat land located south of the city, with rail and canal access running its entire 4 mile length. There was plenty of room for houses and its own downtown section. Steelton was a company town, opened in 1866 by the Pennsylvania Steel Company. Highly innovative in its steel making process, it became the first mill in the United States to make steel railroad rails by contract. In its heyday Steelton was home to more than 16,000 residents from 33 different ethnic groups. All were employed in the steel industry, or had employment in services that supported it. In the late 19th century, no less than five major steel mills and foundries were located in Steelton. Each contained a maze of buildings; conveyances for moving the products; large yards for laying down equipment; and facilities for loading their product on trains. Stacks from these factories constantly belched smoke. With housing and a small downtown area within walking distance, these were the sights and smells that most Steelton residents saw every day.\n\nThe rail yard was another area of Harrisburg that saw rapid and thorough change during the years of industrialization. This was a wide expanse of about two dozen railroad tracks that grew from the single track of the early 1850s. By the late 19th century, this area was the width of about two city blocks and formed what amounted to a barrier along the eastern edge of the city: passable only by bridge. Three large and ornately embellished passenger depots were built by as many rail lines. Pennsylvania Railroad was the largest rail line in Harrisburg. It built huge repair facilities and two large roundhouses in the 1860s and 1870s to handle its enormous freight and passenger traffic and to maintain its colossal infrastructure. Its rails ran the length of Harrisburg, along its eastern border. It had a succession of three passenger depots, each built on the site of the predecessor, and each of high style architecture, including a train shed to protect passengers from inclement weather. At its peak in 1904, it made 100 passenger stops per day. It extended westward to Pittsburgh; across the entire state. It also went eastward to Philadelphia, serving Steelton en route. The vital anthracite coal mines in the Allegheny Mountains were reached by the Northern Central Railroad. The Lebanon Valley Railroad extended eastward to Philadelphia with spurs to New York City. Another rail line was the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad which provided service to Philadelphia and other points east.\n\nThe decades between 1920 and 1970 were characterized by industrial decline and population shift from the city to the suburbs. Like most other cities which faced a loss of their industrial base, Harrisburg shifted to a service-oriented base, with industries such as health care and convention centers playing a big role. Harrisburg's greatest problem was a shrinking city population after 1950. This loss in population followed a national trend and was a delayed result of the decline of Harrisburg's steel industry. This decline began almost imperceptibly in the late 1880s, but did not become evident until the early 20th century.\n\nAfter being held in place for about 5 years by WWII armament production, the population peaked shortly after the war, but then took a long-overdue dive as people fled from the city. Hastening the flight to the suburbs were the cheap and available houses being built away from the crime and deteriorating situation of the city. The reduction in city population coincided with the rise in population of the Metropolitan Statistical Area. The trend continued until the 1990s.\n\nThe gradual loss of industry, especially after WWII, coupled with the proliferation of the street car and later the automobile, led to urban flight to the suburbs. Allison Hill was Harrisburg's first suburb. It was located east of the city on a prominent bluff, accessed by bridges across a wide swath of train tracks. It was developed in the late 19th century and offered affluent Harrisburgers the opportunity to live in the suburbs only a few hundred yards from their jobs in the City. Easy access was achieved via the State Street Bridge leading east from the Capitol complex and the Market Street Bridge leading from the City's prominent business district. In 1886 a single horse trolley line was established from the city to Allison Hill. The most desirable section of Allison Hill was Mount Pleasant, which was characterized by large Colonial Revival style houses with yards for the very wealthy and smaller but still well-built row houses lining the main street for the moderately wealthy. State Street, leading from the Capitol directly toward Allison Hill, was planned to provide a grand view of the Capitol dome for those approaching the City from Allison Hill. This trend towards outlying residential areas began slowly in the late 19th century and was largely confined to the trolley line, but the growth of automobile ownership quickened the trend and spread out the population.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the city of Harrisburg was in need of change. Without proper sanitation, diseases such as typhoid began killing many citizens of Harrisburg. Seeing these necessary changes, several Harrisburg residents became involved in the City Beautiful movement. Mira Lloyd Dock spearheaded the movement with an impressive speech before the city's Board of Trade. Other prominent citizens of the city such as J. Horace McFarland and Vance McCormick advocated urban improvements which were influenced by European urban planning design and the World's Columbian Exposition. Warren Manning was hired to help bring about these changes. Specifically, their efforts greatly enlarged the Harrisburg park system, creating Riverfront Park, Reservoir Park, the Italian Lake and Wildwood Park. In addition, schemes were undertaken for the burial of electric wires, the creation of a modern sanitary sewer system, and the beautification of an expanded Capitol complex.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Farm Show, the largest indoor agriculture exposition in the United States, was first held in 1917 and has been held every January since then. The present location of the Show is the Pennsylvania State Farm Show Arena, located at the corner of Maclay and Cameron streets.\n\nIn June 1972, Harrisburg was hit by a major flood from the remnants of hurricane Agnes.\n\nOn March 28, 1979, the Three Mile Island nuclear plant, along the Susquehanna River located in Londonderry Township which is south of Harrisburg, suffered a partial meltdown. Although the meltdown was contained and radiation leakages were minimal, there were still worries that an evacuation would be necessary. Governor Dick Thornburgh, on the advice of Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman Joseph Hendrie, advised the evacuation \"of pregnant women and pre-school age children ... within a five-mile radius of the Three Mile Island facility.\" Within days, 140,000 people had left the area.\n\nStephen R. Reed was elected mayor in 1981 and served until 2009, making him the city's longest serving mayor. In an effort to end the city's long period of economic troubles, he initiated several projects to attract new business and tourism to the city. Several museums and hotels such as Whitaker Center for Science and the Arts, the National Civil War Museum and the Hilton Harrisburg and Towers were built during his term, along with many office buildings and residential structures. Several minor league professional sports franchises, including the Harrisburg Senators of the Eastern League, the Harrisburg Heat indoor soccer club, and Penn FC of the United Soccer League began operations in the city during his tenure as mayor. While praised for the vast number of economic improvements, Reed has also been criticized for population loss and mounting debt. For example, during a budget crisis the city was forced to sell $8 million worth of Western and American-Indian artifacts collected by Mayor Reed for a never-realized museum celebrating the American West.\n\nDuring the nearly 30-year tenure of former Mayor Stephen Reed from 1981 to 2009, city officials ignored legal restraints on the use of bond proceeds, as Reed spent the money pursuing interests including collecting Civil War and Wild West memorabilia—some which was found in Reed's home after his arrest on corruption charges. Infrastructure was left unrepaired, and the heart of the city's financial woes was a trash to electricity plant, the Harrisburg incinerator that was supposed to generate income but instead because of increased borrowing, incurred a debt of $320 million.\n\nMissing audits, convoluted transactions, including swap agreements make it difficult to state how much debt the city owes. Some estimates put total debt over $1.5 billion which would mean that every resident would owe $30,285. These numbers do not reflect the school system deficit nor the school district's $437 million long term debt, nor unfunded pension and healthcare obligations.\n\nHarrisburg was the first municipality ever in the history of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to be charged with securities fraud, for misleading statements about its financial health. The city agreed to a plea bargain to settle the case.\n\nIn October 2011, Harrisburg filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy when four members of the seven-member City Council voted to file a bankruptcy petition in order to prevent the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania from taking over the city's finances. Bankruptcy Judge Mary France dismissed the petition on the grounds that the City Council majority had filed it over the objection of Mayor Linda Thompson, reasoning that the filing not only required the mayor's approval but had circumvented state laws concerning financially distressed cities.\n\nInstead, a state-appointed receiver took charge of the city's finances. Governor Tom Corbett appointed bond attorney David Unkovic as the city's receiver, but Unkovic resigned after only four months. Unkovic blamed disdain for legal restraints on contracts and debt for creating Harrisburg's intractable financial problem, and said the corrupt influence of creditors and political cronies prevented fixing it.\n\nAs creditors began to file lawsuits to seize and sell off city assets, a new receiver, William B. Lynch, was appointed. The City Council opposed the new receiver's plans for tax increases and advocated a stay of the creditor lawsuits with a bankruptcy filing, while Mayor Thompson continued to oppose bankruptcy. State legislators crafted a moratorium to prevent Harrisburg from declaring bankruptcy, and after the moratorium expired, the law stripped the city government of the authority to file for bankruptcy and conferred it on the state receiver.\nAfter two years of negotiations in August 2013 Receiver Lynch revealed his comprehensive voluntary plan for resolving Harrisburg's fiscal problems. The complex plan calls for creditors to write down or postpone some debt. To pay the remainder, Harrisburg will sell the troubled incinerator, lease for forty years its parking garages, and go further into debt by issuing new bonds. Receiver Lynch has also called for setting up nonprofit investment corporations to oversee infrastructure improvement (repairing the city's crumbling roads, water and sewer lines), pensions, and economic development. These are intended to allow nonprofit fundraising, and to reduce the likelihood of mismanagement by the dysfunctional city government.\n\nHarrisburg's City Council and the state Commonwealth Court approved the plan, and it is in the process of being implemented.\n\nHarrisburg is located at (40.269789, -76.875613) in South Central Pennsylvania, within a four-hour drive of the metro areas of New York, Washington, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , of which, of it is land and of it (29.11%) is water. Bodies of water include Paxton Creek which empties into the Susquehanna River at Harrisburg, as well as Wildwood Lake and Italian Lake parks.\n\nDirectly to the north of Harrisburg is the Blue Mountain ridge of the Appalachian Mountains. The Cumberland Valley lies directly to the west of Harrisburg and the Susquehanna River, stretching into northern Maryland. The fertile Lebanon Valley lies to the east. Harrisburg is the northern fringe of the historic Pennsylvania Dutch Country.\n\nThe city is the county seat of Dauphin County. The adjacent counties are Northumberland County to the north; Schuylkill County to the northeast; Lebanon County to the east; Lancaster County to the south; and York County to the southwest; Cumberland County to the west; and Perry County to the northwest.\n\nHarrisburg's western boundary is formed by the west shore of the Susquehanna River (the Susquehanna runs within the city boundaries), which also serves as the boundary between Dauphin and Cumberland counties. The city is divided into numerous neighborhoods and districts. Like many of Pennsylvania's cities and boroughs that are at \"build-out\" stage, there are several townships outside of Harrisburg city limits that, although autonomous, use the name \"Harrisburg\" for postal and name-place designation. They include the townships of: Lower Paxton, Middle Paxton, Susquehanna, Swatara and West Hanover in Dauphin County. The borough of Penbrook, located just east of Reservoir Park, was previously known as East Harrisburg. Penbrook, along with the borough of Paxtang, also located just outside the city limits, maintain Harrisburg zip codes as well. The United States Postal Service designates 26 zip codes for Harrisburg, including 13 for official use by federal and state government agencies.\n\nHarrisburg has a variable, four-season climate lying at the beginning of the transition between the humid subtropical and humid continental zones (Köppen \"Cfa\" and \"Dfa\", respectively). The hottest month of the year is July with a daily mean temperature of . Summer is usually hot and humid and occasional heat waves can occur. The city averages around 21 days per year with + highs although temperatures reaching are rare. The hottest temperature ever recorded in Harrisburg is on July 3, 1966. Summer thunderstorms also occur relatively frequently. Autumn is a pleasant season when the humidity and temperatures fall to more comfortable values.\n\nWinter in Harrisburg is rather cold: January, the coldest month, has a daily mean temperature of . A major snowstorm can also occasionally occur, and some winters snowfall totals can exceed while in other winters the region may receive very little snowfall. The largest snowfall on a single calendar day was on January 23, 2016, recorded at Harrisburg International Airport in Middletown, while the snowiest month on record was February 2010 with , recorded at the same location. Overall Harrisburg receives an average of of snow per winter. The coldest temperature ever recorded in Harrisburg was on January 21, 1994. Spring is also a nice time of year for outdoor activities. Precipitation is well-distributed and generous in most months, though July is clearly the wettest and February the driest.\n\nCenter City Harrisburg, which includes the Pennsylvania State Capitol Complex, is the central core business and financial center for the greater Harrisburg metropolitan area and serves as the seat of government for Dauphin County and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. There are over a dozen large neighborhoods and historic districts within the city.\n\nHarrisburg is home to the Pennsylvania State Capitol. Completed in 1906, the central dome rises to a height of and was modeled on that of St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City, Rome. The building was designed by Joseph Miller Huston and is adorned with sculpture, most notably the two groups\", Love and Labor, the Unbroken Law\" and \"The Burden of Life, the Broken Law\" by sculptor George Grey Barnard; murals by Violet Oakley and Edwin Austin Abbey; tile floor by Henry Mercer, which tells the story of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The state capitol is only the third-tallest building of Harrisburg. The five tallest buildings are 333 Market Street with a height of , Pennsylvania Place with a height of , the Pennsylvania State Capitol with a height of , Presbyterian Apartments with a height of and the Fulton Bank Building with a height of .\n\nAs of the 2010 census, the city was 52.4% Black or African American, 30.7% White, 3.5% Asian, 0.5% Native American, 0.1% Native Hawaiian, and 5.2% were two or more races. 18.0% of the population were of Hispanic or Latino ancestry.\n\nThe six largest ethnic groups in the city are: African American (52.4%), German (15.0%), Irish (6.5%), Italian (3.3%), English (2.4%), and Dutch (1.0%).\nWhile the metropolitan area is approximately 15% German-American, 11.4% are Irish-American and 9.6% English-American. Harrisburg has one of the largest Pennsylvania Dutch communities in the nation, and also has the nation's ninth-largest Swedish-American communities in the nation.\n\nThere were 20,561 households, out of which 28.5% had children under the age of 13 living with them, 23.4% were married couples living together, 24.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 46.9% were non-families. 39.3% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.32 and the average family size was 3.15.\n\nIn the city, the population was spread out, with 28.2% under the age of 18, 9.2% from 13 to 24, 31.0% from 25 to 44, 20.8% from 45 to 64, and 10.9% who were 65 years of age or OLDER. The median age was 33 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.7 males. For every 100 females age 13 and over, there were 84.8 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the city was $26,920, and the median income for a family was $29,556. Males had a median income of $90,670 versus $24,405 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,787. About 23.4% of families and 24.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 34.9% of those under age 13 and 16.6% of those age 65 or over.\n\nThe very first census taken in the United States occurred in 1790. At that time Harrisburg was a small, but substantial colonial town with a population of 875 residents. With the increase of the city's prominence as an industrial and transportation center, Harrisburg reached its peak population build up in 1950, topping out at nearly 90,000 residents. Since the 1950s, Harrisburg, along with other northeastern urban centers large and small, has experienced a declining population that is ultimately fueling the growth of its suburbs, although the decline – which was very rapid in the 1960s and 1970s – has slowed considerably since the 1980s. Unlike Western and Southern states, Pennsylvania maintains a complex system of municipalities and has very little legislation on either the annexation/expansion of cities or the consolidating of municipal entities.\n\nReversing fifty years of decline, 2004 Census Bureau estimates show that Harrisburg's population has actually grown. Between 2004 and 2006, Harrisburg gained 22 people. In 2006, the urban population of the Harrisburg area increased to 383,008 from 362,782 in 2000, a change of 20,226 people. In 2004 the Harrisburg area was listed with Lebanon and York as an urban agglomeration, or a contiguous area of continuously developed urban land, signifying a future merger of the York-Hanover and Harrisburg metropolitan areas, which would create a metropolitan area of over 1 million.\n\nHarrisburg is the metropolitan center for some 400 communities. Its economy and more than 45,000 businesses are diversified with a large representation of service-related industries, especially health-care and a growing technological and biotechnology industry to accompany the dominant government field inherent to being the state's capital. National firms either headquartered in the region or with major operations include Ahold USA, Arcelor Mittal Steel, HP, IBM, Hershey Foods, Harsco Corporation, Rite Aid Corporation, Tyco Electronics, and Volvo Heavy Machinery. The largest employers, the federal and state governments, provide stability to the economy. The regions extensive transportation infrastructure has allowed it become a prominent center for trade, warehousing, and distribution.\n\nAccording to the Region Economic Development Corporation, the top employers in the region are:\nDowntown Harrisburg has two major performance centers. The Whitaker Center for Science and the Arts, which was completed in 1999, is the first center of its type in the United States where education, science and the performing arts take place under one roof. The Forum, a 1,763-seat concert and lecture hall built in 1930-31, is a state-owned and operated facility located within the State Capitol Complex. Since 1931, The Forum has been home to the Harrisburg Symphony Orchestra.\n\nBeginning in 2001, downtown Harrisburg saw a surge of commercial nightlife development. This has been credited with reversing the city's financial decline, and has made downtown Harrisburg a destination for events from jazz festivals to Top-40 nightclubs.\n\nHarrisburg is also the home of the annual Pennsylvania Farm Show, the largest agricultural exhibition of its kind in the nation. Farmers from all over Pennsylvania come to show their animals and participate in competitions. Livestock are on display for people to interact with and view. In 2004, Harrisburg hosted CowParade, an international public art exhibit that has been featured in major cities all over the world. Fiberglass sculptures of cows are decorated by local artists, and distributed over the city center, in public places such as train stations and parks. They often feature artwork and designs specific to local culture, as well as city life and other relevant themes.\n\nHarrisburg area is part of the media market which consists of the lower counties in south central Pennsylvania and borders the media markets of Philadelphia and Baltimore. It is the 43rd largest media market in the United States.\n\nThe Harrisburg area has several newspapers. The Patriot-News, which is published in Cumberland County, serves the Harrisburg area and has a tri-weekly circulation of over 100,000. The Sentinel, which is published in Carlisle, roughly 20 miles west of Harrisburg, serves many of Harrisburg's western suburbs in Cumberland County. The Press and Journal, published in Middletown, is one of many weekly, general information newspapers in the Harrisburg area. Harrisburg has several monthly community newspapers, including MODE Magazine (publishing since 1996), Urban Connection, and TheBurg. There are also numerous television and radio stations in the Harrisburg/Lancaster/York area. Only one non-municipal portal website exists for the city of Harrisburg, HarrisburgPA.com.\n\n\nThe Harrisburg TV market is served by:\nAccording to Arbitron, Harrisburg's radio market is ranked 78th in the nation.\n\nThis is a list of FM stations in the greater Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, metropolitan area.\n\nThis is a list of AM stations in the Harrisburg, Pennsylvania metropolitan area:\n\n\nSeveral feature films and television series have been filmed or set in and around Harrisburg and the greater Susquehanna Valley.\n\n\n\nHarrisburg serves as the hub of professional sports in South Central Pennsylvania. A host of teams compete in the region including three professional baseball teams, the Harrisburg Senators, the Lancaster Barnstormers, and the York Revolution. The Senators are the oldest team of the three, with the current incarnation playing since 1987. The original Harrisburg Senators began playing in the Eastern League in 1924. Playing its home games at Island Field, the team won the league championship in the 1927, 1928, and 1931 seasons. The Senators played a few more seasons before flood waters destroyed Island Field in 1936, effectively ending Eastern League participation for fifty-one years. In 1940, Harrisburg gained an Interstate League team affiliated with the Pittsburgh Pirates; however, the team remained in the city only until 1943, when it moved to nearby York and renamed the York Pirates. The current Harrisburg Senators, affiliated with the Washington Nationals, have won the Eastern League championship in the 1987, 1993, 1996, 1997, 1998, and 1999 seasons.\n\nDr. Martin Luther King, Jr. City Government Center, the only city hall in the United States named for a Civil Rights Movement leader, serves as a central location for the administrative functions of the city.\nHarrisburg has been served since 1970 by the \"strong mayor\" form of municipal government, with separate executive and legislative branches. The Mayor serves a four-year term with no term limits. As the full-time chief executive, the Mayor oversees the operation of 34 agencies, run by department and office heads, some of whom comprise the Mayor's cabinet, including the Departments of Public Safety (police and fire bureaus), Public Works, Business Administration, Parks and Recreation, Incineration and Steam Generation, Building & Housing Development and Solicitor. The city has 721 employees (2003). The current mayor of Harrisburg is Eric R. Papenfuse whose term expires January 2018.\n\nThere are seven city council members, all elected at large, who serve part-time for four-year terms. There are two other elected city posts, city treasurer and city controller, who separately head their own fiscally related offices.\n\nThe city government has been in financial distress for many years. It has operated under the state's Act 47 provisions since 2011. The Act provides for municipalities that are in a state akin to bankruptcy.\n\nHarrisburg is also known nationally for its use of a two-tiered land value taxation. Harrisburg has taxed land at a rate six times that on improvements since 1975, and this policy has been credited by its former mayor Stephen R. Reed, as well as by the city's former city manager during the 1980s, with reducing the number of vacant structures located in downtown Harrisburg from about 4,200 in 1982 to fewer than 500 in 1995. During this same period of time between 1982 and 1995, nearly 4,700 more city residents became employed, the crime rate dropped 22.5% and the fire rate dropped 51%.\n\nHarrisburg, as well as nearly 20 other Pennsylvania cities, employs a \"two-rate\" or \"split-rate\" property tax, which requires the taxing of the value of land at a higher rate and the value of the buildings and improvements at a lower one. This can be seen as a compromise between pure LVT and an ordinary property tax falling on real estate (land value plus improvement value). Alternatively, two-rate taxation may be seen as a form that allows gradual transformation of the traditional real estate property tax into a pure land value tax.\n\nNearly two dozen local Pennsylvania jurisdictions, such as Harrisburg, use two-rate property taxation in which the tax on land value is higher and the tax on improvement value is lower. In 2000, Florenz Plassmann and Nicolaus Tideman wrote that when comparing Pennsylvania cities using a higher tax rate on land value and a lower rate on improvements with similar sized Pennsylvania cities using the same rate on land and improvements, the higher land value taxation leads to increased construction within the jurisdiction.\n\nDauphin County Government Complex, in downtown Harrisburg, serves the administrative functions of the county. The trial court of general jurisdiction for Harrisburg rests with the Court of Dauphin County and is largely funded and operated by county resources and employees.\n\nThe Pennsylvania State Capitol Complex dominates the city's stature as a regional and national hub for government and politics. All administrative functions of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania are located within the complex and at various nearby locations.\n\nThe Commonwealth Judicial Center houses Pennsylvania's three appellate courts, which are located in Harrisburg. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, which is the court of last resort in the state, hears arguments in Harrisburg as well as Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. The Superior Court of Pennsylvania and the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania are located here. Judges for these courts are elected at large.\n\nThe Ronald Reagan Federal Building and Courthouse, located in downtown Harrisburg, serves as the regional administrative offices of the federal government. A branch of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania is also located within the courthouse. Due to Harrisburg's prominence as the state capital, federal offices for nearly every agency are located within the city.\n\nThe United States military has a strong historic presence in the region. A large retired military population resides in South Central Pennsylvania and the region is home to a large national cemetery at Indiantown Gap. The federal government, including the military, is the top employer in the metropolitan area.\n\nMilitary bases in the Harrisburg area include:\n\nDomestic and International airlines provide services via Harrisburg International Airport (MDT), which is located southeast of the city in Middletown. HIA is the third-busiest commercial airport in Pennsylvania, both in terms of passengers served and cargo shipments. But, generally due to the poor airline selection and lack of an airline hub, generally the most popular airports in the area are Baltimore, Dulles and the Philadelphia. However nearly 1.2 million people fly out of Harrisburg every year.\n\nHarrisburg is served by Capital Area Transit (CAT) which provides public bus, paratransit, and commuter rail service throughout the greater metropolitan area. Construction of a commuter rail line designated the Capital Red Rose Corridor (previously named CorridorOne) will eventually link the city with nearby Lancaster in 2010.\n\nLong-term plans for the region call for the commuter rail line to continue westward to Cumberland County, ending at Carlisle. In early 2005, the project hit a roadblock when the Cumberland County commissioners opposed the plan to extend commuter rail to the West Shore. Due to lack of support from the county commissioners, the Cumberland County portion, and the two new stations in Harrisburg have been removed from the project. In the future, with support from Cumberland County, the commuter rail project may extend to both shores of the Susquehanna River, where the majority of the commuting base for the Harrisburg metropolitan area resides.\n\nIn 2006, a second phase of the rail project designated CorridorTwo was announced to the general public. It will link downtown Harrisburg with its eastern suburbs in Dauphin and Lebanon counties, including the areas of Hummelstown, Hershey and Lebanon, and the city of York in York County. Future passenger rail corridors also include Route 15 from the Harrisburg area towards Gettysburg, as well as the Susquehanna River communities north of Harrisburg, and the Northern Susquehanna Valley region.\n\nThe lower level of the Harrisburg Transport Center serves as the city's intercity bus terminal. Daily bus services are provided by Greyhound, Capitol Trailways, and Fullington Trailways. They connect Harrisburg to other Pennsylvania cities such as Allentown, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Reading, Scranton, State College, Williamsport, and York and nearby, out-of-state cities such as Baltimore, Binghamton, New York, Syracuse, and Washington, D.C., plus many other destinations via transfers.\n\nCurbside intercity bus service is also provided by Megabus from the parking lot of the Harrisburg Mall in nearby Swatara Township, with direct service to Philadelphia, State College, and Pittsburgh.\n\nThe public transit provider in York County, Rabbit Transit, operates its RabbitEXPRESS bus service on weekdays between the city of York and both downtown Harrisburg and the main campus for Harrisburg Area Community College. The commuter-oriented service is designed to serve York County residents who work in Harrisburg, though reverse commutes are possible under the current schedule. Buses running this route make limited stops in the city of York and at two park and rides along Interstate 83 between York and Harrisburg before making various stops in Pennsylvania's capital city. As of May 2007, the RabbitEXPRESS operates three times in the morning and three times in the afternoon.\n\nA charter/tour bus operator, R & J Transport, also provides weekday, scheduled route commuter service for people working in downtown Harrisburg. R & J, which is based in Schuylkill County, operates two lines, one between Frackville and downtown Harrisburg and the other between Minersville, Pine Grove, and downtown Harrisburg.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Railroad's main line from New York to Chicago passed through Harrisburg. The line was electrified in the 1930s, with the wires reaching Harrisburg in 1938. They went no further. Plans to electrify through to Pittsburgh and thence to Chicago never saw fruition; sufficient funding was never available. Thus, Harrisburg became where the PRR's crack expresses such as the Broadway Limited changed from electric traction to (originally) a steam locomotive, and later a diesel locomotive. Harrisburg remained a freight rail hub for PRR's successor Conrail, which was later sold off and divided between Norfolk Southern and CSX.\n\nNorfolk Southern acquired all of Conrail's lines in the Harrisburg area and has continued the city's function as a freight rail hub. Norfolk Southern considers Harrisburg one of many primary hubs in its system, and operates 2 intermodal (rail/truck transfer) yards in the immediate Harrisburg area. The Harrisburg Intermodal Yard (formerly called Lucknow Yard) is located in the north end of Harrisburg, approximately 3 miles north of downtown Harrisburg and the Harrisburg Transport Center, while the Rutherford Intermodal Yard is located approximately 6 miles east of downtown Harrisburg in Swatara Township, Dauphin County. Norfolk Southern also operates a significant classification yard in the Harrisburg area, the Enola Yard, which is located across the Susquehanna River from Harrisburg in East Pennsboro Township, Cumberland County.\n\nAmtrak provides service to and from Harrisburg. The passenger rail operator runs its \"Keystone\" and \"Pennsylvanian\" services between New York, Philadelphia, and the Harrisburg Transportation Center daily. The \"Pennsylvanian\" route, which operates once daily, continues west to Pittsburgh. As of April 2007, Amtrak operates 14 weekday roundtrips and 8 weekend roundtrips daily between Harrisburg, Lancaster, and Philadelphia 30th Street Station; most of these trains also travel to and from New York Penn Station. The Keystone Corridor between Harrisburg and Philadelphia was improved in the mid-first decade of the 21st century, with the primary improvements completed in late 2006. The improvements included upgrading the electrical catenary, installing continuously welded rail, and replacing existing wooden railroad ties with concrete ties. These improvements increased train speeds to 110 mph along the corridor and reduced the travel time between Harrisburg and Philadelphia to as little as 95 minutes. It also eliminated the need to change locomotives at 30th Street Station (from diesel to electric and vice versa) for trains continuing to or coming from New York. As of Federal Fiscal Year 2008, the Harrisburg Transportation Center was the 2nd busiest Amtrak station in Pennsylvania and 21st busiest in the United States.\n\nHarrisburg is the location of over a dozen large bridges, many up to a mile long, that cross the Susquehanna River. Several other important structures span the Paxton Creek watershed and Cameron Street, linking Center City with neighborhoods in East Harrisburg. These include the State Street Bridge, also known as the Soldiers and Sailor's Memorial Bridge, and the Mulberry Street Bridge. Walnut Street Bridge, now used only by pedestrians and cyclists, links the downtown and Riverfront Park areas with City Island but goes no further as spans are missing on its western side due to massive flooding resulting from the North American blizzard of 1996.\n\nThe City of Harrisburg is served by the Harrisburg School District. The school district provides education for the city's youth beginning with all-day kindergarten through twelfth grade. A multi-year restructuring plan is aimed at making the district a model for urban public schools. The district has been troubled for decades with management fiascos and low test scores. In the summer of 2007, more than 2,000 city students were enrolled in educational programs offered by the Harrisburg School District as remediation. The District has been among the lowest ranking districts for academics in the Commonwealth, ranking 492nd out of 496 district ranked by the Pittsburgh Business Times, in 2014. Additionally, several of the Harrisburg School District's school have been listed on the lowest 15% achievement list each year since 2011. This designation means the students qualify for the State's Opportunity Scholarship program. Scholarships, funded by businesses, are available to attend another public school district or a private school. One school in the Harrisburg School District has had consistently adequate academic achievement, Math Science Academy serves pupils grades 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th.\n\nIn 2003, SciTech High, a regional math and science magnet school (affiliated with Harrisburg University), opened its doors to local students.\n\nThe city also has several public charter schools: Infinity Charter School, Sylvan Heights Science Charter School, Premier Arts and Science Charter School and Capital Area School for the Arts. A growing number of statewide, virtual, public charter schools provide residents with many alternatives to the bricks and mortar public school system. The cyber charter school Commonwealth Connections Academy Cyber School is headquartered in Harrisburg.\n\nThe Central Dauphin School District, the largest public school district in the metropolitan area and the 13th largest in Pennsylvania, has several Harrisburg postal addresses for many of the District's schools. Steelton-Highspire School District borders much of the Harrisburg School District.\n\nHarrisburg is home to an extensive Catholic educational system. There are nearly 40 parish-driven elementary schools and seven Catholic high schools within the region administered by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Harrisburg, including Bishop McDevitt High School and Trinity High School. Numerous other private schools, such as The Londonderry School and The Circle School, which is a Sudbury Model school, also operate in Harrisburg. Harrisburg Academy, founded in 1784, is one of the oldest independent college preparatory schools in the nation. The Rabbi David L. Silver Yeshiva Academy, founded in 1944, is a progressive, modern Jewish day school. Also, Harrisburg is home to Harrisburg Christian School, founded in 1955.\n\n\n\n\nHarrisburg has two official sister cities as designated by Sister Cities International:\n\nSince the early 18th century, Harrisburg has been home to many people of note. Because it is the seat of government for the state and lies relatively close to other urban centers, Harrisburg has played a significant role in the nation's political, cultural and industrial history. \"Harrisburgers\" have also taken a leading role in the development of Pennsylvania's history for over two centuries. Two former U.S. Secretaries of War, Simon Cameron and Alexander Ramsey and several other prominent political figures, such as former speaker of the house Newt Gingrich, hail from Harrisburg. The actor Don Keefer was born near Harrisburg, along with the actor Richard Sanders, most famous for playing Les Nessman in \"WKRP in Cincinnati\". Many notable individuals are interred at Harrisburg Cemetery and East Harrisburg Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28662765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28662765", "title": "Iain Benson", "text": "Iain Benson\n\nIain Tyrrell Benson (born 1955 in Edinburgh, Scotland) is a legal philosopher, writer, professor and practising legal consultant. The main focus of his work in relation to law and society has been to examine some of the various meanings that underlie terms of common but confused usage. His work towards an understanding of \"secular\" and \"secularism\" has been cited by the Supreme Court of Canada and the Constitutional Court of South Africa. He has also given critical study to the terms \"pluralism\", \"faith\", \"believer\", \"unbeliever\", \"liberalism\" and \"accommodation\" and examined the implications for various legal and non-legal usages. \nBenson was a member of the draft committee for the South African Charter of Religious Rights and Freedoms, a document which sets out core aspects of citizenship and the rights and freedoms of religion and conscience in a constitutional democracy. He has also made significant contributions to the understanding of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" and religious freedom under Canadian law. He was retained by the Government of Canada to author material concerning \"Religion and Public Policy\" as an aspect of \"Federal Multi-Culturalism Policy\" and is an ongoing expert advisor to the South African \"Council for the Promotion of Religious Freedoms\".\n\nAn advocate that the public sphere should be open and inclusive of all citizens and their groups, whether their faith and belief commitments are based on non-religious or religious beliefs, Iain Benson was the first Executive Director of the Centre for Cultural Renewal, a non-partisan, non-denominational charitable foundation with status in both Canada and the United States, dedicated to examining the nature of pluralism with particular reference to the associational rights dimension of religion and expression. In 2010 he was appointed one of ten inaugural directors of the Global Centre for Pluralism along with Kofi Annan and Adrienne Clarkson and chaired by His Highness the Aga Khan IV. He was also the invited \"rapporteur\" on \"Law and Religious Diversity in Canada and South Africa\" to the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences at the Vatican City in May 2011 and was appointed as expert adviser to the \"South African Council for the Protection and Promotion of Religious Rights and Freedoms\" in September that same year.\n\nIn his capacity as a constitutional and human rights lawyer, Benson has written and lectured extensively in the area of ethics, virtues and pluralism, and acted as an advisor in the fields of medical ethics and bioethics across Canada, Saudi Arabia, Eastern Europe, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nSome of Benson's writings have appeared or been translated in French, Italian, German, Afrikaans, Flemish and Spanish.\n\nIain Benson is the eldest of three children born to Kenneth and Margaret (née Scott) Benson, and was raised primarily in Victoria, B.C.. The family moved from Edinburgh to Quesnel, British Columbia, and then to Prince George, B.C., where Kenneth Benson worked as a \"Medical Health Officer\" and was later appointed Assistant Deputy Minister of Health for the government of British Columbia.\n\nBenson attended Oak Bay Senior Secondary School (1974) and obtained degrees from Queen's University, Ontario (English Literature B.A. Hons. 1980), University of Windsor, Ontario (Law JD 1984), St Catharine's College, Cambridge, England (Law M.A.1987), The University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa (Law, PhD. 2013) with a thesis entitled: \"An Associational Framework for the Reconciliation of Competing Rights Claims Involving the Freedom of Religion\" (Supervisor: Prof. Iain Currie). Some of his many published peer reviewed articles, book chapters and a short book, are available on-line on the Social Science Research Network\nIn 1984 he worked as a summer research assistant based at Oxford University, England and was called the following year to the bar of British Columbia. Benson practised with the firm \"Alexander Holburn Beaudin & Laing\" before becoming a solicitor in 1987 with the \"British Columbia Industrial Relations Council\" (BCIRC). In 1989 he was appointed Senior Solicitor for the Council and practised there through the organisation's development into the \"Labour Relations Board of British Columbia\". He was appointed senior research fellow for the Centre for Cultural Renewal in 1994, and in 2000 became the centre's first Executive Director.\n\nIn 2008 Benson was invited to become the first non-national research associate for the \"South African Institute for Advanced Constitutional, Human Rights, Public and International Law\" (SAIFAC). The following year he was appointed Extraordinary Professor of Law in the Department of Constitutional and Philosophical Law at the University of the Free State, South Africa, became a senior research fellow for the \"Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life\" at the University of Alberta and took up a position as Senior Associate Counsel at Canadian Law Firm, Miller Thomson.\n\nIn 2010 Benson was appointed to the executive committee of the Foundation Board of the Global Centre for Pluralism in Ottawa and became a Member of the Law Society of Upper Canada. In 2011 he was admitted as a Member of the \"International Association of Constitutional Law\" at the ICAL meeting in Mexico and in 2013 became a Member of the International Consortium of Law and Religion Scholars ICLARS, Milan Italy; He is Senior Associate Fellow, International Institute for Hermeneutics, Albert-Ludwigs-Univ., Freiburg, Germany 2015, ongoing; Research Fellow, Religious Freedom and Business Foundation, Maryland, USA (2014, ongoing); senior research fellow, Canadian Centre for The Responsibility to Protect (R2P), Munk Centre, Trinity College, Univ. of Toronto (2014, ongoing); Editorial Advisor, Canadian Race Relations Inst. (2015, ongoing) and Member of the African Consortium of Law and Religions Scholars ACLARS in Namibia 2015. In July 2015 he was invited to become an advising academic to the Open University project on Jurisprudence, UK.; in January 2014 he was Visiting Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Western Ontario, Canada where he taught a course on Comparative Constitutional Law. For the term 2014-2015 he was Visiting Scholar, Massey College, University of Toronto, Canada and as of January 2016 took up a position as Professor of Law at the School of Law, The University of Notre Dame, Sydney, Australia where he teaches Public International Law, Contemporary Legal Issues and Legal Philosophy.\n\nBenson carries out written and research work, international lectures, government and private consultation, court appearances before all levels of court in Canada, media interviews and invited academic and government colloquia and panels, in various areas. \nIn the early twentyfirst century he was one of two non-nationals on the \"Continuation Committee\" drafting the \"South African Charter of Religious Rights and Freedoms\" under Section 234 of that country's constitution, and addressed the ceremony for the public signing of the charter in Johannesburg in October 2010. Earlier that same year, Iain Benson delivered the keynote paper on religious inclusivity in Canada to the Canadian Embassy to the Holy See, and discussed the issues of accommodation of religion in the public sphere to the \"Centre for Cultures and Languages\" in Africa.\nBenson works in the field of ethics and constitutional law through his involvement with the \"South African Institute for Advanced Constitutional, Human Rights, Public and International Law\", \"The Chester Ronning Centre\" in Alberta, Canada and as Professor Extraordinary in the \"Faculty of Law, Department of Constitutional Law and Philosophy of Law\" at the University of the Free State. In 2008 he was an invited panel respondent to Dr. Margaret Somerville's \"Ethics on a Wire\" Keynote Address at the \"Congress of the Humanities and Social Sciences of Canada\" and in 2009 addressed the American Political Science Association hosted by the American Public Philosophy Institute with a lecture entitled \"\"Standing Freedom on its Head: \"Equality\" and \"Non-discrimination\" and the Suppression of Democratic Liberties: Law, Liberty and Convergence\"\".\n\nIn November 2007 Benson was invited to submit a proposal to the Canadian Federal Government Policy Research Initiative on \"Religion and Public Policy\". He wrote a background \"think-piece\" on religion and public policy in Canada entitled \"Taking a Fresh Look at Religion and Public Policy in Canada: The Need for a Paradigm Shift\". He has also appeared before several Canadian government bodies, including the Royal Commissions on \"Education and New Reproductive Technologies\" and the Law Reform Commission formed to examine abortion. He has appeared before the \"Senate Special Committee\" on \"Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide\", the \"Senate Committee\" on \"Banking and Finance\" (re: Pension Reform) and numerous House of Commons of Canada Committees.\n\nBenson has been interviewed on Canadian Broadcasting Corporation programs including \"Ideas\", \"Tapestry\", \"Cross-country Check-up\" and \"Commentary\". He has been interviewed on Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Vatican Radio, Reuters and various radio stations in England and South Africa. Benson has acted as external reader of manuscripts for various presses and journals including McGill-Queen's University Press(Montreal), University of Toronto Press(Toronto), Queen's Law Journal (Kingston, Ontario), \"The Journal of Religion, State and Society\"(Routledge, UK) and the \"South African Journal of Human Rights\", Acta Theologica(South Africa).\n\nBenson continues to lecture across Canada, the United States, Europe, Saudi Arabia and South Africa, giving papers on topics ranging from, constitutional law and religion, literature, the nature of the \"secular\", \"secularism\", \"pluralism\", and issues related to ethics and the accommodation of differing beliefs.\n\nBenson has published work on the accommodation of religious and non-religious rights, and has worked to promote the idea of shared civic virtues serving the common good across all belief communities. His published opinion is that all citizens have faith and belief in something, whether these beliefs are grounded in religion or not, and that the public sphere is obliged to act with balance.\n\nBenson's \"Notes Towards a (Re)Definition of the 'Secular'\" was cited by the Supreme Court of Canada (in its landmark 2002 \"Chamberlain\" decision). This case concerned whether books on same-sex parented families should be approved at kindergarten grade. In their decision to refer the matter back for a non-discriminatory decision, the court said that \"the B.C. School Act's insistence on secularism and non-discrimination lies at the heart of this case. [It] provides that \"[a]ll schools and Provincial schools must be conducted on strictly secular and non-sectarian principles\". It also emphasises that \"[t]he highest morality must be inculcated, but no religious dogma or creed is to be taught in a school or Provincial school\"\". The decision cites Benson's article in connection with proper understanding of the concepts of \"secular\" and \"non-sectarian\", and says that it is an error to equate\"secular\" with \"non-religious\". In subsequent writing, Benson has been critical of the court's apparent adoption of \"secularism\" as the matter was never argued before them and was not essential to the statutory interpretation before them. This work was cited with approval by Justice Albie Sachs in the 2005 decision of the South African Constitutional Court in the \"Fourie\" decision.\n\nBenson has also criticised a failure to examine the meaning of \"secularism\" in the works of most commentators on the \"secular\" and \"secularism\" itself, including the work of Charles Taylor. He has been critical of the tendency to assume that \"secularism\" is a neutral concept, when the origin of the term was within a framework that expressly intended to minimise any public relevance for religions.\n\nBenson has argued that the Canadian approach to a pluralistic society has often overlooked the important role that religions play in the public sphere as well as in the lives of citizens and their groups. He contends that secularism is not neutral regarding religion, and that the term as most people have understood it excludes from \"the public sphere\" a key component of many citizens' identities, which is their freedom of conscience and religion. Benson further argues that a better understanding of the term \"secular\" would keep religion and the state jurisdictionally separate while allowing for co-operation and mutual understanding between them. The ultimate goal of this preferred philosophy would be to create a society in which individual and communal differences are accepted and embraced rather than one in which law and politics are viewed as building towards forced \"agreement\" or \"convergence\". A \"think-piece\" paper for the Canadian Federal Government's \"Policy Research Initiative\" group on \"Religion and Public Policy\" (January 2008) was an elaboration of some of his thinking on the issue and highlighted the need for a paradigm shift in the way we approach religion and public policy. It also outlined some of the implications this should have for government actions in relation to multiculturalism in the public sphere, and legal decisions in relation to religious freedom and the principles of accommodation.\n\nMore recently he has begun examining the tendency of legal decisions to remove from consideration the communal dimension of religious rights, and has written of the associational dimension of the freedom of religion and its importance to diversity, freedom and a pluralistic society.;\n\nProfessor Benson’s scholarly writings are referred to in many scholarly books and articles and he is called upon frequently to review scholarly manuscripts, articles. He has examined graduate degrees (MTh. and DTheol. degrees to date).\n\nIain Benson is a published poet. He was also the editor of Volume VII of the \"Collected Works of G.K. Chesterton\", contributing a critical introduction and several hundred footnotes to Chesterton's novels \"Manalive\", \"The Ball and the Cross\" and \"The Flying Inn\". In 2001 Benson addressed the Oxford University, C.S. Lewis society, and became a \"Knight of Magisterial Grace\" of the \"Sovereign Military Order of Malta\". He has been in Canadian Who's Who since 2011.\n\nBenson remains a prolific author across a range of subjects. Notable selected publications include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "789973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789973", "title": "Independent contractor", "text": "Independent contractor\n\nAn independent contractor is a natural person, business, or corporation that provides goods or services to another entity under terms specified in a contract or within a verbal agreement. Unlike an employee, an independent contractor does not work regularly for an employer but works as and when required, during which time he or she may be subject to law of agency. Independent contractors are usually paid on a freelance basis. Contractors often work through a limited company or franchise, which they themselves own, or may work through an umbrella company.\n\nIn the United States, any company or organization engaged in a trade or business that pays more than $600 to an independent contractor in one year is required to report this to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) as well as to the contractor, using Form 1099-MISC. This form is merely a report of the money paid; independent contractors do not have income taxes withheld like regular employees.\n\nThe distinction between independent contractor and employee is an important one in the United States, as the costs for business owners to maintain employees are significantly higher than the costs associated with hiring independent contractors, due to federal and state requirements for employers to pay FICA (Social Security and Medicare taxes) and unemployment taxes on received income for employees. Likewise, employees are protected from being fired without cause, and if fired or let go for other reasons are entitled to unemployment benefits, whereas independent contractors have neither protection nor entitlement. Employees are also entitled to receive overtime pay for work performed over the 40-hour-per-week standard, whereas independent contractors may work any number of hours (including far above this standard) with no change in pay.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the IRS methodically began to look for employers who were misclassifying employees as independent contractors, and has since obtained billions of dollars in Social Security back taxes. Recently, worker classification initiatives have been a top priority for the IRS, the Department of Labor, and state agencies. In 2011, the IRS and the Department of Labor entered into a memorandum of understanding in an effort to jointly increase worker misclassification audits.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has offered the following guidelines to distinguish employees from independent contractors:\n\nThe IRS, for federal income tax, applies a \"right to control test\" which considers the nature of the working relationship. They highlight three general aspects of the employment arrangement:\n\n\nIn general, their criteria parallel those of the Supreme Court in sentiment. They include guidelines such as the amount of instruction, training, integration, use of assistants, length of professional relationship, regularity of work, location of work, payment schedule, source of funds for business expenditures, right to quit, and financial risk more typically seen with each work category. In their framework, independent contractors retain control over schedule and hours worked, jobs accepted, and performance monitoring. They also can have a major investment in equipment, furnish their own supplies, provide their own insurance, repairs, and other expenses related to their business. They may also perform a unique service that is not in the normal course of business of the employer. This contrasts with employees, who usually work at the schedule required by the employer, and whose performance the employer directly supervises. Independent contractors can also work for multiple firms, and offer their services to the general public.\n\nThe distinction between independent contractors and employees is not always clear, and continues to evolve. For example, some independent contractors may work for a number of different organizations throughout the year, while others retain independent contractor status although they work for the same organization the entire year. Other companies, for example in the freight transport industry, specify the schedule for the independent contractor, require purchase of vehicles from the company and prohibit work for other companies.\n\nIn July 2015, the U.S. Department of Labor issued new guidelines on the misclassification of employees as independent contractors. \"A worker who is economically dependent on an employer is suffered or permitted to work by the employer. Thus, applying the economic realities test in view of the expansive definition of \"employ\" under the Act, most workers are employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act.\"\n\nExamples of occupations where independent contractor arrangements are typical:\nIndependent contracting has both benefits and drawbacks to contractors.\n\n\nFirms in the sharing economy such as Uber can gain substantial advantages via the misclassification of employees as independent contractors.\n\n\nThe employer of an independent contractor is generally not held vicariously liable for the tortious acts and omissions of the contractor, because the control and supervision found in an employer–employee or principal–agent relationship is lacking. However, vicarious liability will be imposed in some circumstances:\n\nDue to the higher expense of maintaining employees, many employers needing to transition from independent contractors to employees may find the switch difficult. There is a transitional status for employees as an alternative to independent contracting known as being a statutory employee. Statutory employees are less expensive to hire than classic employees because the employer does not have to pay unemployment tax. However, they are more expensive than independent contractors because Social Security and Medicare taxes must be paid on wages. Similarly to independent contractors, statutory employees can deduct their trade or business expenses from their W2 earnings.\n\nA growing number of workers do not neatly fit the government's categorizations of independent contractors and statutory employees, and are increasingly being classified as dependent contractors. Some of these contingent workforce—independent contractors, temporary workers, and part-time workers, who work when and for how long they want, such as those who work for such companies as Uber, Handybook, Inc., and CrowdFlower—have filed lawsuits that argue that companies that substantially control workers' work and behaviors while working (such as at Handybook, Inc.: when to knock on customers' doors vs. ring the doorbells, and how to use the customers' bathrooms) should be covered by minimum-wage and overtime rules under the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as receive other traditional employee protections. Wilma Liebman, former chairperson of the National Labor Relations Board, has observed that Canada and Germany have such protections in place for contingent workers. And UK Prime Minister David Cameron has appointed an overseer for freelance workers in that country, to determine how the government should support freelance workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2193894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193894", "title": "Islamic military jurisprudence", "text": "Islamic military jurisprudence\n\nIslamic military jurisprudence refers to what has been accepted in Sharia (Islamic law) and Fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence) by \"Ulama\" (Islamic scholars) as the correct Islamic manner which is expected to be obeyed by Muslims in times of war. Some scholars and Muslim religious figures claim that armed struggle based on Islamic principles is referred to as the Lesser jihad.\n\nThe first military rulings were formulated during the first century after Muhammad established an Islamic state in Medina. These rulings evolved in accordance with the interpretations of the Qur'an (the Islamic Holy scriptures) and Hadith (the recorded traditions, actions (behaviors), sayings and consents of Muhammad). The key themes in these rulings were the justness of war (Harb), and the injunction to jihad. The rulings do not cover feuds and armed conflicts in general.\n\nJihad (Arabic for \"struggle\") was given a military dimension after the oppressive practices of the Meccan Quraish against Muslims. It was interpreted as the struggle in God's cause to be conducted by the Muslim community. Injunctions relating to jihad have been characterized as individual as well as collective duties of the Muslim community. Hence, the nature of attack is important in the interpretation—if the Muslim community as a whole is attacked jihad becomes incumbent on all Muslims. Jihad is differentiated further in respect to the requirements within Muslim-governed lands (Dar al-Islam) and non-Muslim lands (Dar al-Harb).\n\nAccording to Shaheen Sardar Ali and Javaid Rehman, both professors of law, the Islamic military jurisprudence are in line with rules of modern international law. They point to the dual commitment of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) member states (representing most of the Muslim world) to Islamic law and the United Nations Charter, as evidence of compatibility of both legal systems.\n\nFighting is justified for legitimate self-defense, to aid other Muslims and after a violation in the terms of a treaty, but should be stopped if these circumstances cease to exist. The principle of forgiveness is reiterated in between the assertions of the right to self-defense.\n\nDuring his life, Muhammad gave various injunctions to his forces and adopted practices toward the conduct of war. The most important of these were summarized by Muhammad's companion and first Caliph, Abu Bakr, in the form of ten rules for the Muslim army:\n\nAccording to Tabari, the ten bits of \"advice\" that Abu Bakr gave was during the Expedition of Usama bin Zayd. During the Battle of Siffin, the Caliph Ali stated that Islam does not permit Muslims to stop the supply of water to their enemy. In addition to the Rashidun Caliphs, hadiths attributed to Muhammad himself suggest that he stated the following regarding the Muslim conquest of Egypt that eventually took place after his death:\n\nThese principles were upheld by 'Amr ibn al-'As during his conquest of Egypt. A Christian contemporary in the 7th century, John of Nikiû, stated the following regarding the conquest of Alexandria by 'Amr:\n\nThe principles established by the early Caliphs were also honoured during the Crusades, as exemplified by Sultans such as Saladin and Al-Kamil. For example, after Al-Kamil defeated the Franks during the Crusades, Oliverus Scholasticus praised the Islamic laws of war, commenting on how Al-Kamil supplied the defeated Frankish army with food:\n\nThe early Islamic treatises on international law from the 9th century onwards covered the application of Islamic ethics, Islamic economic jurisprudence and Islamic military jurisprudence to international law, and were concerned with a number of modern international law topics, including the law of treaties; the treatment of diplomats, hostages, refugees and prisoners of war; the right of asylum; conduct on the battlefield; protection of women, children and non-combatant civilians; contracts across the lines of battle; the use of poisonous weapons; and devastation of enemy territory.\n\nMuslim jurists agree that Muslim armed forces must consist of debt-free adults who possess a sound mind and body. In addition, the combatants must not be conscripted, but rather enlist of their free will, and with the permission of their family.\n\nMuslims have struggled to differentiate between legitimate and illegitimate wars. Fighting in self-defense is not only legitimate but considered obligatory upon Muslims, according to the Qur'an. The Qur'an, however, says that should the enemy's hostile behavior cease, then the reason for engaging the enemy also lapses.\n\nSome scholars argue that war may only be legitimate if Muslims have at least half the power of the enemy (and thus capable of winning it). Other Islamic scholars consider this command only for a particular time.\n\nAccording to the majority of jurists, the Qur'anic \"casus belli\" (justification of war) are restricted to aggression against Muslims and \"fitna\"—persecution of Muslims because of their religious belief. They hold that unbelief in itself is not the justification for war. These jurists therefore maintain that only combatants are to be fought; noncombatants such as women, children, clergy, the aged, the insane, farmers, serfs, the blind, and so on are not to be killed in war. Thus, the Hanafī Ibn Najīm states: \"the reason for jihād in our [the Hanafīs] view is \"kawnuhum harbā ‛alaynā\" [literally, their being at war against us].\" The Hanafī jurists al-Shaybānī and al-Sarakhsī state that \"although kufr [unbelief in God] is one of the greatest sins, it is between the individual and his God the Almighty and the punishment for this sin is to be postponed to the \"dār al-jazā’\", (the abode of reckoning, the Hereafter).\" War, according to the Hanafis, can't simply be made on the account of a nation's religion. Abdulaziz Sachedina argues that the original jihad according to his version of Shi'ism was permission to fight back against those who broke their pledges. Thus the Qur'an justified defensive jihad by allowing Muslims to fight back against hostile and dangerous forces.\n\nMuhammad ibn Idris ash-Shafi`i (d. 820), founder of the Shafi'i school of thought, was the first to permit offensive jihad, limiting this warfare against pagan Arabs only, not permitting it against non-Arab non-Muslims. This view of al-Shafi'i is mitigated by the fact that an opposite view, in agreement with the majority, is also attributed to al-Shafi'i.\n\nJaved Ahmad Ghamidi believes that after Muhammad and his companions, there is no concept in Islam obliging Muslims to wage war for propagation or implementation of Islam. The only valid basis for military jihad is to end oppression when all other measures have failed. Islam only allows jihad to be conducted by a government.\n\nAccording to Abdulaziz Sachedina, offensive jihad raises questions about whether jihad is justifiable on moral grounds. He states that the Qur'an requires Muslims to establish just public order, increasing the influence of Islam, allowing public Islamic worship, through offensive measures. To this end, the Qur'anic verses revealed required Muslims to wage jihad against unbelievers who persecuted them. This has been complicated by the early Muslim conquests, which he argues were although considered jihad by Sunni scholars, but under close scrutiny can be determined to be political. Moreover, the offensive jihad points more to the complex relationship with the \"People of the book\".\n\nSome major modern scholars who have rejected the idea of \"offensive jihad\" include the founder of the Muslim Brotherhood, Hasan al-Banna (1906–1949), the Al-Azhar scholar Muhammad Abu Zahra (1898–1974) who thought that \"military jihad is permitted only to remove aggression ('udwân) and religious persecution (fitnah) against Muslims\", as well as Syrian scholars Mohamed Said Ramadan Al-Bouti (1929–2013) and Wahbah al-Zuhayli (1932-2015), the latter saying that \"peace is the underlying principle of relations between Muslims and non-Muslims. al-Zuhayli maintains that this view is supported by 8:61, as well as 2:208 and 4:94 that establish the principle of international peace. For him, Muslims should be committed to peace and security (on the basis of 4:90 and 60:8).\"\n\nInternational conflicts are armed strifes conducted by one state against another, and are distinguished from civil wars or armed strife within a state. Some classical Islamic scholars, like the Shafi'i, classified territories into broad categories: \"dar al-islam\" (\"abode of Islam\"), \"dar al-harb\" (\"abode of war), \"dar al-ahd\" (\"abode of treaty\"), and \"dar al-sulh\" (\"abode of reconciliation\"). Such categorizations of states, according to Asma Afsaruddin, are not mentioned in the Qur'an and Islamic tradition.\n\nThe Qur'an commands Muslims to make a proper declaration of war prior to the commencement of military operations. Thus, surprise attacks are illegal under the Islamic jurisprudence. The Qur'an had similarly commanded Muhammad to give his enemies, who had violated the Treaty of Hudaybiyyah, a time period of four months to reconsider their position and negotiate. This rule, however, is not binding if the adversary has already started the war. Forcible prevention of religious practice is considered an act of war.\n\nDuring battle the Qur'an commands Muslims to fight against the enemy. However, there are resrictions to such combat. Burning or drowning the enemy is allowed only if it is impossible to achieve victory by other means. The mutilation of dead bodies is prohibited. The Qur'an also discourages Muslim combatants from displaying pomp and unnecessary boasting when setting out for battle.\n\nAccording to professor Sayyid Dāmād, no explicit injunctions against use of chemical or biological warfare were developed by medieval Islamic jurists as these threats were not existent then. However, \"Khalil al-Maliki's Book on jihad\" states that combatants are forbidden to employ weapons that cause unnecessary injury to the enemy, except under dire circumstances. The book, as an example, forbids the use of poisonous spears, since it inflicts unnecessary pain.\n\nAccording to all madhhabs, it is not permissible to kill women or children unless they are fighting against the Muslims. The Hanafi, Hanbali, and Maliki schools forbid killing of those who are not able to fight, including monks, farmers, and serfs, as well as mentally and physically disabled.\nHarming civilian areas and pillaging residential areas is also forbidden, as is the destruction of trees, crops, livestock and farmlands. The Muslim forces may not loot travelers, as doing so is contrary to the spirit of jihad. Nor do they have the right to use the local facilities of the native people without their consent. If such a consent is obtained, the Muslim army is still under the obligation to compensate the people financially for the use of such facilities. However, Islamic law allows the confiscation of military equipment and supplies captured from the camps and military headquarters of the combatant armies.\n\nCommentators of the Qur'an agree that Muslims should always be willing and ready to negotiate peace with the other party without any hesitation. According to Maududi, Islam does not permit Muslims to reject peace and continue bloodshed.\n\nIslamic jurisprudence calls for third party interventions as another means of ending conflicts. Such interventions are to establish mediation between the two parties to achieve a just resolution of the dispute.\n\nIn the context of seventh century Arabia, the Qur'an ordained Muslims must restrain themselves from fighting in the months when fighting was prohibited by Arab pagans. The Qur'an also required the respect of this cease-fire, prohibiting its violation.\n\nIf, however, non-Muslims commit acts of aggression, Muslims are free to retaliate, though in a manner that is equal to the original transgression. The \"sword verse\", which has attracted attention, is directed against a particular group who violate the terms of peace and commit aggression (but excepts those who observe the treaty). Crone states that this verse seems to be based on the same above-mentioned rules. Here also it is stressed that one must stop when they do. Ibn Kathir states that the verse implies a hasty mission of besieging and gathering intelligence about the enemy, resulting in either death or repentance by the enemy. It is read as a continuation of previous verses, it would be concerned with the same oath-breaking of \"polytheists\".\n\nMen, women, and children may all be taken as prisoners of war under traditional interpretations of Islamic law. Generally, a prisoner of war could be, at the discretion of the military leader, executed, freed, ransomed, exchanged for Muslim prisoners, or kept as slaves. In earlier times, the ransom sometimes took an educational dimension, where a literate prisoner of war could secure his or her freedom by teaching ten Muslims to read and write. Some Muslim scholars hold that a prisoner may not be ransomed for gold or silver, but may be exchanged for Muslim prisoners.\n\nWomen and children prisoners of war cannot be killed under any circumstances, regardless of their religious convictions, but they may be freed or ransomed. Women who are neither freed nor ransomed by their people were to be kept in bondage - also referred to as \"malakah\", however dispute exists among scholars on the term's interpretation. Islamic law does not put an exact limit on the number that can be kept in bondage.\n\nInternal conflicts include \"civil wars\", launched against rebels, and \"wars for welfare\" launched against bandits.\n\nDuring their first civil war, Muslims fought at the Battle of Bassorah. In this engagement, Ali (the caliph), set the precedent for war against other Muslims, which most later Muslims have accepted. According to Ali's rules, wounded or captured enemies should not be killed, those throwing away their arms should not be fought, and those fleeing from the battleground should not be pursued. Only captured weapons and animals (horses and camels which have been used in the war) are to be considered war booty. No war prisoners, women or children are to be enslaved and the property of the slain enemies are to go to their legal Muslim heirs.\n\nDifferent views regarding armed rebellion have prevailed in the Muslim world at different times. During the first three centuries of Muslim history, jurists held that a political rebel may not be executed nor his/her property confiscated.\n\nClassical jurists, however, laid down severe penalties for rebels who use \"stealth attacks\" and \"spread terror\". In this category, Muslim jurists included abductions, poisoning of water wells, arson, attacks against wayfarers and travellers, assaults under the cover of night and rape. The punishment for such crimes were severe, including death, regardless of the political convictions and religion of the perpetrator. Further, rebels who committed acts of terrorism were granted no quarter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8912321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8912321", "title": "Istijarah", "text": "Istijarah\n\nIstijarah (, ) is an Islamic term for asylum, accepting a person at risk as a member of own tribe.\n\nA system of clan protection existed in Pre-Islamic Arabia, and people without a clan would stand without protection. Such a person could request for \"Istijarah\" (asylum) from a person already having a clan association in order to receive protection from that person. This was a common practice in Arabia, this was used by some Muslims who returned from the first Migration to Abyssinia, and Muhammad himself requested \"Istijarah\" from Mut'im ibn Adi after his return to Mecca from the visit to Ta'if. The term is also used in the Qur'an.\n"}
{"id": "41861653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41861653", "title": "Journal of Intellectual Property Law", "text": "Journal of Intellectual Property Law\n\nJournal of Intellectual Property Law is a biannual student-edited law review covering intellectual property law published by the University of Georgia School of Law. The journal covers trademarks, patents, copyright law, trade secrets, internet law, and sports and entertainment law.\n\nThe journal was established in 1993 to respond to what the United States Circuit Court of Appeals judge Stanley F. Birch, Jr. described as \"[t]he need for greater exposition on the law of intellectual property.\" In 2010, the Supreme Court of the United States cited the journal in Justice John Paul Stevens' concurring opinion in \"Bilski v. Kappos\". In 2015, Washington and Lee University's Law Journal Rankings placed the journal among the top twenty five intellectual property law journals with the highest impact factor, and among the top ten most cited by cases.\n\nThe journal is abstracted or indexed in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15781170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15781170", "title": "Lewis Black's Root of All Evil", "text": "Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\n\nLewis Black's Root of All Evil is an American television series that premiered on March 12, 2008, on Comedy Central and was hosted by comedian Lewis Black. The series producer was Scott Carter from \"Real Time with Bill Maher\" and the writer was David Sacks from \"The Simpsons\". Sometimes there were pre-recorded video segments directed by supervising producer Michael Addis.\n\n\"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" is formatted as a tongue-in-cheek mock trial acted in deadpan. Black presided over two opposing guest comedians championing a person or thing as the \"root of all evil\" (YouTube, beer, Oprah Winfrey, PETA, etc.).\nThe series ended on October 1, 2008, with a total of 18 episodes. The series' cancellation was confirmed by Lewis Black in September 2009. The entire first season of \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" was released on DVD in the United States on September 30, 2008. The remaining episodes from season two are not currently available on DVD.\n\nEach show followed the same format: Black welcomed the viewer to his courtroom and announced the two Evil candidates for the Root of All Evil. Black gave a brief history of each of the Evils and introduced the two advocates, who presented their oral arguments why their Evil is the greater. Black began his inquisition, questioning the advocates about their Evils. Usually, the answers pointed out the good or usefulness of the opponent's Evil or the greater evil of their own. Black asked the advocates to predict what would happen if their Evil continued to spread. The \"Ripple of Evils\" used absurd, comedic logic and were generally very silly. After the advocates gave their closing arguments, Black asked for the audience's opinion, which he seldom followed, and announced his verdict and the loser's sentence.\n\nThe advocates were not the same every week, but six of the eight appeared multiple times. The advocates and their Win/Loss records are:\n\nSeason two was dedicated to the memory of George Carlin, who died on June 22, 2008; but a dedication message did not appear until the end of \"Olympic Games vs. Drinking Games\" on August 13, 2008.\n\nEven before the first episode was broadcast, Brian Lowry in \"Variety\" attacked the show, saying that the guest comedians were \"second-tier\" and that the set \"resembles a cut-rate version of \"The Weakest Link\" set\" and that \"Comedy Central's programming usually falls squarely into the sublime or the ridiculous, so consider \"Root of All Evil\" a rare tweener in terms of quality—one that proves a whole lot of Black is preferable, albeit marginally, to a black hole.\" Attracting about 2.3 million viewers, the debut episode was the most-watched premiere episode of a Comedy Central series since the premiere of \"Chappelle's Show\" in 2003 and topped the demographics for male audiences ages 18 to 34.\n\nMark Dawidziak of \"The Plain Dealer\" wrote in his review, \"I'm a sucker for a good Lewis rant, and sometimes \"Root of All Evil\" would benefit from more Lewis fomenting and less formula. For as long as it's around, though, it does make a good fit with a Comedy Central lineup that includes Jon Stewart, Stephen Colbert, Sarah Silverman and, of course, \"South Park\".\"\n\nThe 3rd Annual Independent Investigative Group IIG Awards presented an award to \"Root of All Evil\" recognizing the promotion of science and critical thinking in popular media on May 18, 2009.\n\nWhile there was no official notice from Comedy Central, Lewis Black stated in a September 2009 interview that \"the show is dead\".\n\nThe entire first season of \"Lewis Black's Root of All Evil\" was released on two disc DVD set in the United States on September 30, 2008. The remaining episodes from season two are not currently available on DVD. All episodes are available on iTunes. However, Netflix Instant and Hulu no longer carries \"Lewis Black's Root Of All Evil\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24007358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24007358", "title": "List of Russian legal historians", "text": "List of Russian legal historians\n\nRussian legal historians, scholars who study Russian law in historical perspective, include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18935400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935400", "title": "List of copyright case law", "text": "List of copyright case law\n\nThe following is a list of cases that deal with issues of concern to copyright in various jurisdictions. Some of these cases are leading English cases as the law of copyright in various Commonwealth jurisdictions developed out of English law while these countries were colonies of the British Empire. Other cases provide background in areas of copyright law that may be of interest for the legal reasoning or the conclusions they reach.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: if no court name is given, according to convention, the case is from the Supreme Court of the United States. Supreme Court rulings are binding precedent across the United States; Circuit Court rulings are binding within a certain portion of it (the circuit in question); District Court rulings are not binding precedent, but may still be referred to by other courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "27783617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27783617", "title": "Magister Juris", "text": "Magister Juris\n\nMJur (Magister Juris or Master of Jurisprudence; common abbreviations include MJur, M.Jur., Mag. Jur. and Mag. iur.) is an academic degree in law awarded by some universities.\n\nThe Magister Juris (MJur) is a one-year master's level course offered at the University of Oxford. It is a postgraduate degree requiring a previous undergraduate degree in law for admission, and is thus comparable to an LL.M. It is a counterpart to the long-established Bachelor of Civil Law (BCL), with which it shares all course options, but for students from a civil law rather than a common law background.\n\nHistorically, students from civil law jurisdictions were able to study for the BCL at Oxford, but had to meet additional requirements. Following the establishment of the Institute for European and Comparative Law at Oxford, in 1992 the faculty of law introduced a one-year degree programme of \"Magister Juris in European and Comparative Law\", and in 1999/2000 closed the BCL to students from civil law jurisdictions. The Magister Juris at that time allowed to choose a number of undergraduate options, as well as an option in the history faculty. As the MJur and BCL programmes became more similar, the qualifier \"in European and Comparative Law\" was dropped in 2001.\n\nThe structure of the MJur nowadays is very similar to that of the BCL, and for the most part, BCL and MJur students study the same options in the same classes. Students select four options from a list of 40 or so available in common to BCL and MJur students. In place of one of the four taught options, students may also choose to write a dissertation of 10,000 to 12,500 words. Alternatively, MJur students may select one option from a list of approximately 12 courses from the undergraduate BA in Jurisprudence. All taught options are taught by a combination of lectures and/or seminars and tutorials. Tutorials, which involve an intensive discussion between a tutor and two or three students, are a feature of the MJur and BCL programmes which is not offered in any taught graduate course in law elsewhere in the world.\n\nAdmission to the MJur is slightly more competitive than to the BCL: According to data disclosed by the University of Oxford, for 50 places available each year, 343 people applied on average in the three years before the academic year 2017/18, which equals an average application success rate of 14.6 %. The success rate for BCL applications in the same period was 16.3 %.\n\nAcademic dress for the MJur is the same as for the BCL, an outward sign of their shared content and structure: A black gown of silk with a form of black lace sewn on the collar, the lower part of the back, and down the sleeves which are closed and cut straight, but have an opening just above the elbow. The hood, of Dean Burgon shape, is of blue corded silk or poplin with white fur fabric. Holders of the MJur degree rank directly below Bachelors of Civil Law, and above Bachelors of Medicine and Surgery.\n\nWhereas the Oxford MJur is a taught degree, the MJur programmes offered by Durham and Birmingham are \"research\" degrees. It is awarded on the basis of a candidate's thesis (usually 40,000 words) in an approved area of law, under the supervision of an academic staff. The MJur must demonstrate an advanced understanding of the subject but - in contrast to a PhD - need not constitute an original contribution to knowledge nor reach a standard worthy of publication. Unlike LLM or Oxford's MJur dissertations, MJur degrees at Durham and Birmingham are examined by appointed internal and external examiners, for which a report is prepared. A viva voce, an essential component of PhDs at British universities, is unusual for MJur degrees.\n\nHistorically, German law students did not receive any academic degree upon completion of their curriculum. Instead, after usually four or five years of study, students sit their First State Examination (\"Erstes Staatsexamen\") in Law, which is administered by the ministry of justice of the respective state, not the university. More recently, however, some universities have begun to award their students a Magister Juris upon passing the First State Examination, in order to indicate the equivalence of the education to a master's degree in other disciplines. Examples include the universities of Cologne, Constance and Heidelberg. Other German universities are awarding a Diplom-Jurist degree to their law examinees, following the same principle.\n\nAustrian law students are usually awarded a \"Mag. iur.\" after completion of a four-year curriculum. On average it takes students 13.6 semesters to complete the curriculum. Despite the Bologna process Law is one of the studies that still stick to the traditional Austrian system without a bachelor's degree and a Magister Juris as the first academic degree.\n\nAfter the Bologna process, the former \"Laurea di dottore in Giurisprudenza\" had been replaced by a first level degree, \"Laurea in Scienze Giuridiche\" (three years), and a second level degree, \"Laurea Specialistica in Giurisprudenza\" (two further years). This system changed in 2006: at present the \"Laurea Magistrale in Giurisprudenza\" (i.e., Magister Juris) is the Law degree in Italy. It is a five-year, second level (master's) degree which does not require a previous bachelor's degree for the admission (\"Laurea Magistrale a ciclo unico\", i.e. integrated master's degree).\n\n"}
{"id": "37723287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37723287", "title": "Manslaughter (United States law)", "text": "Manslaughter (United States law)\n\nManslaughter is a crime in the United States. Definitions can vary among jurisdictions, but manslaughter is invariably the act of causing the death of another person in a manner less culpable than murder.\n\nVoluntary manslaughter involves the intentional killing of a person in which the offender did not have prior intent to kill. The defendant may have the intention of causing serious injury short of death.\n\nThe following are some examples of defenses that may be raised to mitigate murder to voluntary manslaughter:\n\nInvoluntary manslaughter is the killing of another person without the intent to kill, but where the person's death occurs as a result of the negligent or reckless actions of the defendant.\n\nIn the United States, \"constructive manslaughter\", also known as \"unlawful act manslaughter\", is a lesser version of felony murder, and covers a person who causes the death of another while committing a misdemeanorthat is, a violation of law that doesn't rise to the level of a felony. Such a law may allow for conviction for the homicide if the misdemeanor law that was violated by the defendant is a law designed to protect human life.\n\nIn some U.S. jurisdictions, if a person is so reckless as to \"manifest extreme indifference to human life\", the defendant may be guilty of aggravated assault as well as of involuntary manslaughter.\n\nIn some U.S. jurisdictions, malice may be found if the defendant's actions reflect \"willful\" or \"depraved\" indifference to human life. In such a case, even though the injury to the victim was not intended, the wrongdoer may be guilty of \"second degree murder\".\n\nVehicular manslaughter is a class C felony which holds people liable for any death which occurs because of criminal negligence, or a violation of traffic safety laws. A common use of the vehicular manslaughter laws involves prosecution for a death caused by driving under the influence of intoxicating substances (determined by excessive blood alcohol content levels set by individual U.S. states), although an independent infraction (such as driving with a suspended driver's license), or negligence, is usually also required.\n\nIn Wisconsin, a person who causes death with any type of motor vehicle while legally intoxicated may be liable and charged with homicide by intoxicated use of a motor vehicle. Culpability lies with the perpetrator. The maximum penalty for homicide by intoxicated use of a vehicle is twenty-five years in prison, but with a prior OWI offense the maximum penalty may be increased to forty years in prison.\n\nIn the State of Texas, \"intoxication manslaughter\" is a distinctly defined offense. A person commits intoxication manslaughter if he, or she, operates a motor vehicle in a public place, operates an aircraft, a watercraft, or an amusement ride, or assembles a mobile amusement ride while intoxicated and, by reason of that intoxication, causes the death of another by accident or mistake.\n\nIntoxication manslaughter, vehicular manslaughter and other similar offenses require a lesser mens rea than other manslaughter offenses. Furthermore, the fact that the defendant is entitled to use the alcohol, controlled substance, drug, dangerous drug, or other substance, is no defense. For example, to prove intoxication manslaughter, it is not necessary to prove the person was negligent in causing the death of another, nor that they unlawfully used the substance that intoxicated them, but only that they were intoxicated, and operated a motor vehicle, and someone died as a result.\n\nThe same principle of strict liability applies in New York for vehicular manslaughter in the second degree.\n\nIn some U.S. states, assisted suicide is punishable as manslaughter, while others classify it as an independent criminal offense or as a form of murder.\n\nAs each state has its own statutes, law that cover the same criminal conduct may have different names. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "56307070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56307070", "title": "Maîtresses marchandes lingères", "text": "Maîtresses marchandes lingères\n\nMaîtresses marchandes lingères was a French Guild organisation for women linen draper seamstresses and hemp merchants within the city of Paris, active from the Middle Ages until 1791. It was one of only three guilds open to women in Paris prior to 1776, the other two being the \"Maitresses bouquetieres\" and the \"Maîtresses couturières\".\n\nThe guild was formed in the 13th- or 14th-century, and was one of the strongest guilds in Paris until the French Revolution of 1789, both in money and status. The linen seamstresses sold lace and all manner of clothing made of linen and Cannabis sativa. They manufactured all sorts of products made of linen, on and off commission. In accordance with the privileges of the guild, a linen seamstress did not become a minor under the guardianship of her husband when she married, which was an exception from contemporary law of married women's minority.\n\nThe guild was somewhat unusual: though the profession of seamstress was very common and socially accepted for a woman, it was normally practiced outside of the guilds in Europe prior to the 19th-century, and discriminated by the tailor's guilds. Paris was rare in having an actual guild for seamstresses, and it was further increased with the \"Maîtresses couturières\" of 1675 and the \"Marchandes de modes\" of 1776.\n\n"}
{"id": "12052207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12052207", "title": "Measure of the National Assembly for Wales", "text": "Measure of the National Assembly for Wales\n\nA Measure of the National Assembly for Wales (informally, an Assembly Measure) is primary legislation in Wales that is a category lower than an Act of Parliament. In the case of Contemporary Welsh Law, the difference with Acts is that the competence to pass Measures is subject to 'LCOs' or Legislative Competence Order, which transfers powers to the Assembly by amending Schedule 5 of the Government of Wales Act 2006.\n\nIt was a lower form of primary legislation as it did not contain a large bulk of powers compared to the power to make acts. In Wales each Assembly Measure had to be accompanied with a Matter which was transferred using the Legislative Competence Order (LCO) system. Each Assembly Measure, like an Act of Parliament, had to have made provision for a matter within the remit of the legislative competency of the Assembly. \n\nFollowing a referendum held in 2011, the assembly gained powers to make primary legislation known as Acts of the Assembly. These powers came into force after the 2011 assembly elections and the assembly is no longer able to pass Measures. Existing measures will remain valid unless repealed by the assembly in the future.\n\nLike Acts, Assembly Measures face the same style of scrutiny. There were around four stages where the proposed legislation was scrutinised. The first stage is the agreement of the principles of the Assembly Measure, which means the first approval of the legislation for it to be scrutinised, then it will have to be scrutinized at committee level, where a committee of Assembly Members can debate and add more to the Measure which is then accompanied with debates in 'plenary', which would be required to approve the amendments. \n\nOnce everything above has been completed, the Assembly can then start the final scrutinising before the Assembly Measure gets passed and becomes law. As in other legislative systems, some laws will fail, or be withdrawn.\n\nAssembly Measures, like all other types of legislation, will have to be approved by a head of state, that head of state being Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. After the Assembly Measure is passed by the National Assembly for Wales the Measure will have to be taken to the Queen in Council who approves the Measure via an Order in Council. The approval would later be added to the Assembly Measure as proof of the approval. The approving order in council is not approved by both Houses of Parliament like the Orders in Council conferring power to the Assembly.\n\nLike in any legislature, the National Assembly for Wales members can propose Assembly Measures. The name for an Assembly Measure proposed by a person not in the Welsh Assembly Government will be called a \"Members Proposed Assembly Measure\" Meanwhile, according to the same source there will also be \"Government Proposed Assembly Measures\" and \"Emergency Proposed Assembly Measures\". The First Welsh Legislative Counsel, a new post which commenced April 2007, working within the Office of the First Welsh Legislative Counsel, part of the Legal Services Department of the Welsh Assembly Government has responsibility for the drafting of the Welsh Assembly Government's legislative programme following the implementation of the Government of Wales Act 2006. Professor Thomas Glyn Watkin is the first person to be appointed to this post.\n\nAssembly measures begin with the following enacting formula:\n\n\nWhen the Government of Wales Act 2006 was passed, some people reading it became confused as to what the difference between an Assembly Measure and an Order-in-Council is. Some people thought that the Order-in-Council was just a way of conferring power to the Assembly so the Assembly could make more 'delegated legislation'. However, the Act states that the Orders in Council are used only to transfer legal power to the Assembly. In this way, the Assembly, without having to go to Parliament, could then legislate using the 'Assembly Measures' system instead of making Acts straight off. An Assembly Measure could then confer power to the Welsh ministers to make delegated legislation, or statutory instruments as guided within the Measure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37917973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37917973", "title": "New Cult Awareness Network", "text": "New Cult Awareness Network\n\nThe \"New Cult Awareness Network\" (NCAN, often referred to as simply the \"Cult Awareness Network\", though other than inheriting the name, it is unrelated to that older group) is an organization that provides information about cults, and is owned and operated by associates of the Church of Scientology, itself categorized in many countries as a cult. It was formed in 1996, with the name purchased from the now defunct Cult Awareness Network, an organization that provided information on groups it considered to be cults, and that strongly opposed Scientology.\n\nThe \"New CAN\" organization (also known as the Foundation for Religious Freedom) has caused both confusion and controversy among academics and its opponents. Board members of the \"Old CAN\" have characterized it as a front group for the Church of Scientology. In December 1997, \"60 Minutes\" profiled the controversy regarding the history of the \"Old CAN\" and the \"New CAN\", with host Lesley Stahl noting, \"Now, when you call looking for information about a cult, chances are the person you're talking to is a Scientologist\". James R. Lewis has described \"New CAN\" as \"a genuine information and networking center on non-traditional religions\". Margaret Thaler Singer expressed the opinion that any experts the public would be referred to by the \"New CAN\" would be cult apologists. Shupe and Darnell noted the \"New CAN\" had been able to attract support from donors such as Amazon.com, and by 2000 it was receiving thousands of phone calls per month. The \"New CAN\" promotes itself as a champion of human rights and freedom of religion. An August 2007 article on Fox News on the Wikipedia Scanner noted \"a computer linked to the Church of Scientology's network was used to delete references to links between it and [...] the 'Cult Awareness Network'\" on Wikipedia.\n\nThe old Cult Awareness Network, which publicly opposed Scientology as well as other groups it considered to be cults, was driven into bankruptcy by litigation costs in 1996. Subsequently, Church of Scientology attorney Steven Hayes appeared in bankruptcy court and won the bidding for what remained of the organization for an amount of $20,000: the name, logo, phone number, office equipment, and judgments that the organization had won but not yet collected. Initially, the Scientologists did not gain access to the CAN files, because of the threat of litigation against the bankruptcy trustee; the files were returned to the board. After Jason Scott sold his $1.875 million judgment to Scientologist Gary Beeny for $25,000, this made Beeny, represented by Scientology attorney Kendrick Moxon, CAN's largest creditor. The CAN board then settled with Beeny by turning over the files to him instead of the possibility of being individually liable for the judgement.\n\nIndividuals who had confided in the \"Old CAN\" organization expressed anxiety about their confidential files being sold to other groups, but Moxon stated: \"People who have committed crimes don't want them to be revealed\". According to Shupe, Darnell and Moxon, there is evidence that a number of documents in the files were destroyed by unknown persons at CAN in the early to mid-nineties, during the time when CAN and its directors were embroiled in legal battles. Moxon sought out pledges of money from leaders of new religious movements for the confidential files. Moxon believed only 5 percent of the files related to Scientology, and told \"The Washington Post\" he had contacted leaders of other new religious movements because he thought that \"there's smoking guns in the files\" involving deprogrammers and the \"Old CAN\". After being turned over to Beeny, the files were donated to the Foundation for Religious Freedom, who made them available to academic researchers and representatives of various new religious movements for inspection and photocopying. Later they were transferred to the Special Collections section of the University of California library in Santa Barbara.\n\nThe Foundation for Religious Freedom became the license holder of the CAN name and operates the New CAN today. It is controlled by a multi-faith board of directors chaired by George Robertson, a self-described Baptist minister. It operates a website and a telephone hotline. The Foundation for Religious Freedom predates the \"New CAN\"; in the 1993 closing agreement between the IRS and the Church of Scientology, it was listed as a Scientology-related entity.<ref name=\"www.xenu.net/archive/IRS/#VIII\">\"... and the Foundation for Religious Freedom are Scientology-related entities\" per Subsection 4 of \"Section VIII. Definitions\" of </ref>\n\nIn her book \"Researching New Religious Movements\", Arweck wrote that individuals began to fear that Scientology would \"use CAN's name to cause confusion\", and these fears solidified with the appearance of \"New CAN\". Board members of the \"Old CAN\" said the \"New CAN\" was nothing but a front group for Scientology. A section of its website relating to the Aum Supreme Truth sect authored by Nick Broadhurst, a New Zealand Scientology spokesman, stated that the real source of the crimes committed by Aum were drugs and psychiatric treatments the cult administered to its members. Broadhurst thanked the Scientology subsidiary Citizen's Commission on Human Rights for usage of material in his report. Scientology is extremely hostile towards psychiatry. The site does not contain any criticism of Scientology, unlike most other sites which claim to provide anti-cult information (other than those dedicated to other specific groups). In the Scientology publication IMPACT, Nr. 72, Scientologist and CAN VP Jean Hornnes explained, \"We have successfully prevented deprogrammings and we have taken broken families and helped to put them back together by using standard LRH technology on handling PTSness\". In January 1997, shortly after the formation of the New CAN, brochures mailed out by the organization described Scientology as a way to \"increase happiness and improve conditions for oneself and for others\".\n\nOther news sources reported that the (New) Cult Awareness Network was owned by the Church of Scientology. A December 1996 report by \"CNN\" had the headline: \"Group that once criticized Scientologists now owned by one.\" One Scientologist was quoted in the report as stating that he believed the New Cult Awareness Network would stand for \"religious freedom\", however former director Cynthia Kisser was quoted as saying, \"People are going to believe they're going to talk to an organization that's going to help and understand them in their time of crisis, and in fact, it could be a pipeline of information directly to the group they're most afraid of\". In 1997, an article in the \"New York Times\" characterized the New CAN as an affiliate of the Church of Scientology, stating: \"now it's in the hands of a Scientologist and proselytizes for the church\". The New CAN has been accused of passing the name of a caller, a concerned mother, to the cult she was inquiring about, which resulted in further damaging the relationship with her daughter. Penn writes in \"False Dawn\" that the New Cult Awareness Network is \"dominated by Scientologists\". In describing what he refers to as the \"doublespeak\" of the (New) Cult Awareness Network, Tuman states that Scientology and CAN utilize the term \"religious freedom\" as a hallmark of its defense against critics. Tuman wrote that: \"What seems to be the case is that the Cult Awareness Network has kept its same name and even its original mission statement, while shifting its concern 180 degrees, from investigating sects to protecting them (from \"religious intolerance\"). Tuman concluded his piece entitled: \"The Strange Case of the Cult Awareness Network\", by comparing the Web site of the (New) Cult Awareness Network to the 1956 cult film, \"The Invasion of the Body Snatchers\".\n\nOn December 12, 1996, a usenet posting by \"lah\" (later reported by \"TIME\" magazine to be the account of one \"Sister Francis Michael\" of the Heaven's Gate group) in the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology applauded Scientology for their \"courageous action against the Cult Awareness Network\", which she accused of \"promoting all sort of lies (including) cult activities.\" This email was also reported on, and the full-text of the email was displayed, in an article called \"The business of cults\", in 2000. The subject of the email, \"Thanks for Actions Against CAN\", and contained the text, \"Here's a round of applause to the Church of Scientology for their courageous action against the Cult Awareness Network.\"\nIn December 1997, \"60 Minutes\" profiled the new management of the Cult Awareness Network, in a piece hosted by Lesley Stahl, entitled: \"CAN: The Cult Awareness Network\". \"60 Minutes\" referred to the (Old) Cult Awareness Network as a comprehensive resource, stating it was \"for 20 years the nation's best-known resource for information and advice about groups it considered dangerous.\" The current influence by the Church of Scientology was investigated, and Stahl commented in a voice-over: \"Now, when you call looking for information about a cult, chances are the person you're talking to is a Scientologist.\" The Church of Scientology's Fair Game policy was described by Stahl; examples of the Fair Game policy were given on-camera from individuals such as Stacy Brooks, as well as a private investigator hired by Kendrick Moxon. Moxon and Church president Heber Jentzsch also gave an interview, during which Jentzsch compared CAN to the Ku Klux Klan and the Nazi Party. The \"Time Magazine\" article \"The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power\" was also cited as a reference in the report. The piece concluded by displaying some of the pamphlets distributed by the (New) Cult Awareness Network, which included one called \"Facts about Deprogramming\" and another entitled \"Fact vs. Fiction: Scientology: the inside story at last\". In August 2007, a Fox News Channel article on the new Wikipedia Scanner reported that \"a computer linked to the Church of Scientology's network was used to delete references to links between it and [...] the 'Cult Awareness Network'.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14991277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14991277", "title": "Non-aggression pact of 1979", "text": "Non-aggression pact of 1979\n\nThe Southern Africa Non-aggression Pact required signatory states to ensure that no individual or organization attacked a signatory state from signatory soil. Presidents Jose Eduardo dos Santos of Angola, Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, and Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia signed the agreement on October 14, 1979. The signatories also signed a treaty on transportation and communication cooperation the same day. The non-aggression pact largely held together until Angola, along with most of Southern Africa, invaded the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1996 in the First Congo War.\n\nThe treaty came in direct response to Cuba's invasions of Zaire from Angola in 1977 and 1978. Mobutu and Kaunda's support for National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) and National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA) rebels in the Angolan Civil War and dos Santos' support for the Front for the National Liberation of the Congo in Zaire led to repeated clashes in the 1970s.\n\nMost notable is South Africa's absence in signing the treaty, considering the apartheid government's support for UNITA in Angola exceeded all other nations and South Africa's support for Renamo in Mozambique.\n\n"}
{"id": "30573246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30573246", "title": "O'Connor v. Ortega", "text": "O'Connor v. Ortega\n\nO'Connor v. Ortega, 480 U.S. 709 (1987), is a United States Supreme Court decision on the Fourth Amendment rights of government employees with regard to administrative searches in the workplace, during investigations by supervisors for violations of employee policy rather than by law enforcement for criminal offenses. It was brought by Magno Ortega, a doctor at a California state hospital after his supervisors found allegedly inculpatory evidence in his office while he was on administrative leave pending an investigation of alleged misconduct. Some of what they uncovered was later used to impeach a witness who testified on his behalf at the hearing where he unsuccessfully appealed his dismissal.\n\nAlthough lower courts had considered the issue, it was the first time the Supreme Court had. By a 5-4 margin, the Court ruled that public employees retain their Fourth Amendment rights. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's plurality opinion established an \"operating realities\" test for future courts to consider when public employees challenged searches during investigations, reflecting the lower reasonable suspicion standard the government had to meet as an employer. That did not establish binding precedent, since Antonin Scalia argued in a separate concurring opinion that her standard was too vague, and that the same searches which would be reasonable for a private employer were proper when conducted by their public counterparts. Harry Blackmun wrote for four dissenting justices that the search was clearly an investigatory one and thus a breach of the doctor's privacy.\n\nSince it could not decide how to apply that standard to Ortega's case as the record at that time did not establish whether the entry into Ortega's office had been for search purposes or not, the majority remanded the case to the district court. Eleven more years of litigation followed. At some points during it Ortega had to represent himself, and the Court itself had taken the unusual step of inviting Joel Klein to argue Ortega's case before them. It went back and forth between the district and appellate courts twice. Ortega finally prevailed after a jury trial in the late 1990s, and the Ninth Circuit denied Ortega's superiors their appeal.\n\nDespite the two different standards resulting from the split five-justice majority, lower courts have generally followed O'Connor's \"operational realities\" test in future cases involving actual searches. Observers thought the justices might resolve the conflict the next time a similar case of public employees alleging a search violated their Fourth Amendment rights came before it. When it did, in 2010's \"Ontario v. Quon\", they declined to do so, leaving the matter open for yet another future Court.\n\nIn March 1981, Dr. Ortega, for 17 years the head of the psychiatric residency program at Napa State Hospital, a mental hospital in Napa, California, purchased a new Apple II computer to use in running the program. Half of the money for it had been donated by some of the residents; Ortega covered the rest. A month later, he asked Dr. Dennis O'Connor, the hospital's executive director and his superior, to sign some thank-you letters to the residents who had made contributions, and to authorize some purchase orders for peripherals and other accessories for the computer.\n\nO'Connor was not sure whether the computer had been properly donated to the hospital, and hesitated to sign the letters. Two months later, Ortega suspended a resident for failing to report for a rotation. The resident complained to Dorothy Owen, the hospital's personnel director, that Ortega was retaliating against him for not only having not contributed to the purchase of the computer but advising other residents to ask him for their money back.\n\nIn late July, Owen told O'Connor of the resident's complaint. O'Connor asked Richard Friday, the hospital administrator, to begin an investigation into the resident's allegations specifically and the purchase of the computer generally. He gave Friday and his investigative team broad authority, including permission to search Ortega's office. The hospital otherwise had no policy on such searches.\n\nO'Connor asked Ortega to take administrative leave the next day. Ortega instead received O'Connor's approval for two weeks of paid vacation, after which the administrative leave began. O'Connor told Ortega not to return to the hospital without his permission during his vacation. During the time Ortega was on vacation, Friday had the lock changed and kept the key in his own office.\n\nWhen Ortega's vacation ended, O'Connor sent a letter to Ortega informing him he was now on paid administrative leave, and extending the restriction on visits to the hospital. Before Ortega had received it, he returned to the hospital. Finding his office door locked and unable to open it himself, he took the computer, then in an unsecured nearby room, home to work with it there, as he had done on occasion in the past.\n\nUpon learning of this, O'Connor called the hospital police, believing that the computer was state property and thus Ortega had stolen it. At some other point during the time Ortega was on vacation and leave, a staff psychiatrist who ran a support group for residents told O'Connor about complaints of possible sexual harassment on Ortega's part from two female residents. It was not clear whether this took place before or after at least one thorough, highly intrusive search of Ortega's office. Materials were removed from Ortega's office, boxed and stored when the security guard performing the inventory found it too difficult to sort out Ortega's property from the state's.\n\nOn a separate visit to Ortega's office, Friday found several items—a Valentine, suggestively posed photo and inscribed book of love poetry—sent to Ortega several years earlier by a former resident. After the hospital fired Ortega in September, he appealed to the State Personnel Board. When the former resident testified on Ortega's behalf during the hearing, these items were introduced in an attempt to impeach her.\n\nOwen asked Ortega after the firing if he wanted his personal possessions from his office returned. He did not. By spring of 1982 he had changed his mind. In response to another request, Asher Rubin, the deputy attorney general who had represented the state before the Personnel Board, told him he could make copies of his personal papers but could not keep the originals, nor any of his other personal property.\n\nOrtega retained an attorney and filed a Section 1983 suit against O'Connor (who had now become director of the California Department of Mental Health) Owen, Friday, other parties and the state shortly afterwards in federal court, seeking $750,000 in compensatory and punitive damages. In addition to the violation of his Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable search and seizure, he made tort claims for invasion of privacy and breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealings under California law. The defendants argued that they had entered Ortega's office and gone through the contents of his desk purely to inventory property and separate state-owned items from the doctor's personal possessions, which it claimed was standard practice when employees had resigned or been terminated. Both sides moved for summary judgement, which Judge John P. Vukasin Jr. granted to the defendants on all claims. It found that the entry into Ortega's office had been for the purpose of securing state property for use by a successor.\nOrtega appealed to the Ninth Circuit. In 1985 a three-judge panel unanimously reversed the district court on the search but upheld it on the state-law tort claims. \"The entry into the office seems to have been for no other purpose than to secure evidence for use in the ongoing investigation of Ortega,\" Judge Dorothy Wright Nelson wrote.\" While the state had said that the entry to the office was not intended as a search, she noted that at the time the doctor had not yet been fired or resigned but was merely on administrative leave. Nor did this seem to have been regularly undertaken in situations where it did apply.\n\nAfter that finding, Wright considered whether such a warrantless search was reasonable under the Fourth Amendment. She applied the two-pronged test from the Supreme Court's 1967 \"Katz v. United States\" decision to establish whether Dr. Ortega had a reasonable expectation of privacy over the contents of his desk and office. First, did he have a subjective expectation that they would be left undisturbed by others, and second, would that expectation be one that society would consider reasonable and respect?\n\nOn the first prong, he had occupied the office for all 17 years of his employment. He kept within his desk not only personal papers and effects but confidential patient records. He had believed he had the only key, and was not aware of any other time during his employment at Napa in which his office had been entered without his permission. In \"Mancusi v. DeForte\", the Supreme Court had held that an employee can have a reasonable expectation of privacy over his or her desk at work from searches by law enforcement. \n\nTwo cases from the Third Circuit, with direct similarities to Ortega's, argued for the reasonableness of his privacy expectation. In one, the presence of sensitive and confidential documents within a desk was held to strengthen the privacy expectation; and in the other, the personal lock that a police officer had used for his department locker led to the suppression of a sawed-off shotgun seized by federal agents.\n\nIn the latter case, the department had also lacked a formal policy on whether the lockers could be searched, as had been the case at Napa. This Wright used to distinguish it and Ortega's case from other precedents where warrantless searches of public employees' lockers, jackets or backpacks had been upheld due to broadly disseminated and actively implemented policies that such searches could occur at any time. \"Here, Napa had never instituted surveillance or searches and had no general inspection policy that might have defeated Ortega's expectation of privacy in his office,\" she concluded.\n\nThe appeals court ordered the district court to enter judgement in Ortega's favor on that issue and hold proceedings to fix damages. The pendent state-law claims had not been filed in a timely fashion, and the panel affirmed that part of the summary judgement.\n\nThe state of California's \"certiorari\" petition was granted by the Supreme Court in 1985. Since he was representing himself, Ortega filed his own brief. The Court invited Joel Klein, the future New York City Schools Chancellor then in private practice, to argue Ortega's case, and he also filed an \"amicus curiae\" brief on Ortega's behalf. \n\nThe appellants' brief was filed by California Attorney General John Van de Kamp and several of his assistants. Solicitor General Charles Fried filed an \"amicus\" brief on behalf of the federal government urging reversal. The American Civil Liberties Union and American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees urged affirmance in their \"amici\". Oral arguments were held in October 1986.\n\nJeffrey T. Miller, one of Van de Kamp's deputies, argued for the petitioners. He did not deny that government employees had Fourth Amendment rights, but \"the activity that took place in this case did not constitute a search within Fourth Amendment jurisprudence\". He insisted that the Court should follow the district court's lead in finding that Dr. Ortega's office had been inventoried, not searched, until he was reminded that the district court had merely found the action to be a securing of the property in case Ortega returned to remove something else, and had not even used the word \"inventory.\" It would not have been reasonable for the doctor to have imagined that no one else would or could have entered the office without his consent or knowledge in the 17 years he was employed at Napa. \n\nLikewise, a desk was a \"common repository\", likely to be used by many people besides the one regularly seated behind it. \"It is foreseeable that a number of different people working for government, from clerical staff to supervisors to colleagues, will move into an office, that is, enter an office, open a desk for a variety of reasons.\" When Justice Sandra Day O'Connor challenged him as to whether employees in the private sector would have a reasonable expectation of privacy over their desks, he agreed that they might but reminded her the Fourth Amendment does not apply to private employers. \n\nHe asked that the Court follow the logic of its 1985 ruling in \"New Jersey v. T. L. O.\" in which it had held that only a reasonable belief that evidence of misconduct would be found was needed to justify a search of a student or possessions on school property during school hours. Chief Justice William Rehnquist asked Miller if he was arguing the Fourth Amendment did not apply at all in schools. \"it seems to me there is certainly language in \"T.L.O.\" against you on that point.\" That case, Miller responded, \"had at least made the initial inquiry into whether the Fourth Amendment was applicable.\" \n\nThe other justices were not convinced that Ortega's office had been entered for inventory purposes. They pointed to facts in the record they saw as being at odds with the state's interpretation. Antonin Scalia asked if it were possible that the Court could rule that it was an inventory but the actions taken had exceeded the scope of those necessary to accomplish that. Miller said that would be moot as there was no expectation of privacy over the desk and office. He further explained that Ortega's key may have given him a subjective expectation of privacy, but not necessarily a reasonable one. Miller admitted to Thurgood Marshall that he did not know why the inventory could not have been done in Ortega's presence to better facilitate the sorting of property.\n\nHe noted that most public agencies have an Inspector General or something similar, who \"every now and then drops in on offices to see if employees have their own things in their office\". When Justice Byron White asked if his position implied that a public agency could search its employees' desks or offices at any time of the day or night, he said yes. \"It may give rise to work grievances, to state and common law tort remedies ... but it would not violate the Fourth Amendment in our view.\"\n\n\"Our argument rests on three propositions\", Klein told the justices. \"[F]irst, that it is both customary and reasonable for a public employee to keep personal papers and effects in his work office and to expect that the privacy of such materials will be protected against arbitrary searches or seizures by his employer; second, that the application of the Fourth Amendment to office searches is not incompatible with the government's responsibilities as an employer.\"\n\nBefore he could get to the third, he was challenged by Scalia, who posited a situation where he might be working late and need to retrieve a document or file. He would find it on the desk of one of his clerks, who might have gone home for the day. \"Now,\" he asked, \"have I conducted a Fourth Amendment search and seizure, and I am only immune from ... suit because it was reasonable?\n\nKlein conceded to another justice's follow-up question that it was understood that, in all offices, \"our expectation is, in the evenings, when people go home, others may on the basis of need enter ... The Fourth Amendment does not apply in most situations to a routine office entry, that is, if an employer or co-worker walks into your office looking for a paper clip.\" However, he said, that understanding did not defeat an expectation of privacy, likening it to a hotel room, where the Court had previously held there was an expectation of privacy even though hotel staff routinely enter for janitorial purposes. Scalia asked if it would be a Fourth Amendment violation if cleaning crews were to have looked through Ortega's desk and papers. \"I don't think they would be exercising government authority in that situation\", Klein answered, since the cleaning crews were presumably under instructions not to do so.\n\nO'Connor asked if it would be reasonable for a supervisor to enter an office and look through a desk to \"discover whatever might be appropriate for work-related wrongdoing of some kind?\" As an example, she suggested, a supervisor might want to assess an employee's progress toward a deadline. Klein did not think so, since normally such matters are handled by asking the employee to produce whatever work has been completed.\n\nTo highlight his argument that the intrusion into Ortega's office had been a search rather than a property inventory, he used the example of the book of poetry, which was obviously personal property. \"[I]f you pick up a book of poetry you don't have to open that book to find out who sent it to him.\" It was suggested that perhaps he read poetry to his patients, but Klein responded that the state had not suggested that and that, even if he did the book was still undeniably personal property.\n\nHe, too, compared the case with \"T.L.O.\", telling Justice White that he believed a search warrant might have been necessary to enter Ortega's office in this situation. \"[L]et me just say that I think that they were looking for information to use against him to take his job away from him. He had been singled out\", Klein said. \"[E]ven if you take the \"T.L.O.\" standard, it is inconceivable that we could have a lower standard at the work place than we have at the school given the interests of employees and their adult age ... [T]here has to be reasonable suspicion when you go in to do the search that you will uncover evidence.\" If the state or the hospital had really wanted the right to enter employees' offices, it could have followed the example of the Mint and the Customs Service and promulgated a regulation stating that employees' property could be subject to search.\n\nFive months later, in March 1987, the Court handed down its decision. All nine justices agreed that public employees had Fourth Amendment protections during administrative searches in the workplace, and that routine work-related intrusions as discussed at oral argument did not constitute a violation. They differed as to whether Ortega's had been breached by the search. The five-justice majority believed it could not determine the purpose of the intrusion into Ortega's office and so remanded the case to the district court to do so.\n\nJustice O'Connor wrote for a four-justice plurality that the same reasonable suspicion standard it developed for \"T.L.O.\" was applicable to administrative searches of public employees' workspace or possessions, since the \"operational realities\" of a public work environment may substantially reduce or eliminate a standard expectation of privacy. In a separate concurring opinion, Justice Scalia rejected that as too vague to be useful to lower courts, and proposed instead that any search that would be reasonable for a private employer would be permissible for a public one.\n\nJustice Blackmun wrote for the four dissenting justices. He believed the majority had put too much weight on the different interpretations of the intrusion by the district and appellate courts, since he felt it was clearly an investigatory search for evidence against Dr. Ortega. Also, he charged, the majority had taken his concurrence in \"T.L.O.\" out of context to support its reasonableness standard. He did not feel, as they did, that outside of special cases such as the school system that it would have been detrimental to the operations of a public agency such as the hospital to have some sort of independent review and establish probable cause for an administrative search related to possible violations of policy.\n\nAfter recounting the history of the case and the sweep of the Court's prior Fourth Amendment jurisprudence, O'Connor, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, Justice White, and Justice Powell, defined the boundaries of the workplace context as \"those areas and items that are related to work and are generally within the employer's control.\" Some items that passed through the workplace were personal, and as the Court had ruled in \"Mancusi\", a reasonable expectation of privacy may exist there. \"[W]e reject the contention made by the Solicitor General and petitioners that public employees can never have a reasonable expectation of privacy in their place of work,\" she wrote. \"Individuals do not lose Fourth Amendment rights merely because they work for the government, instead of a private employer.\"\n\nShe immediately qualified that holding.\nMoving from the general principle to the case at hand, O'Connor agreed that Ortega had that same reasonable expectation of privacy, but that since the record did not reflect the extent of whatever legitimate work-related reasons the hospital administrators might have had to enter the office, the Ninth Circuit should have remanded the case to the district court to determine that, as the majority was doing. Following \"T.L.O.\", she said the inquiry should not stop with determining the Fourth Amendment applied, but whether the context made the search reasonable. \"We must balance the invasion of the employees' legitimate expectations of privacy against the government's need for supervision, control, and the efficient operation of the workplace.\"\n\nThere was, O'Connor admitted, \"surprisingly little case law\" on the subject. That which existed did seem to support the standard she proposed for work-related searches, most notably a 1973 case from the Seventh Circuit in which the surreptitious recording of an Internal Revenue Service's agent's conversations at his desk by the agency's internal investigators was held to be reasonable and work-related, and a 1951 case from the District of Columbia which held that although a search of the appellee's desk by local police with her government supervisor's permission was unconstitutional, a work-related search by her supervisor would not have been. She distinguished these from other cases that proposed other standards for public workplace searches by noting that those cases were either not work-related or involved criminal misconduct.\n\n\"In our view,\" O'Connor continued,\n\nShe quoted from \"Connick v. Myers\", an earlier case which had considered the First Amendment rights of an assistant prosecutor fired for allegedly disruptive behavior: \"[G]overnment offices could not function if every employment decision became a constitutional matter.\"\n\nO'Connor announced that the Court would consider only the constitutionality of work-related and investigatory searches \"and leave for another day inquiry into other circumstances.\" She found \"the efficient and proper operation of the workplace\" to similarly justify investigatory searches, since supervisors had different needs from law enforcement. \"The delay in correcting the employee misconduct caused by the need for probable cause, rather than reasonable suspicion, will be translated into tangible and often irreparable damage to the agency's work, and ultimately to the public interest.\" She again cited \"T.L.O.\" to justify this standard. \"Government offices are provided to employees for the sole purpose of facilitating the work of an agency. The employee may avoid exposing personal belongings at work by simply leaving them at home.\"\n\nLastly O'Connor found the district court's finding on summary judgment that the intrusion was for the purposes of securing state property to be in error since there was a genuine dispute of fact. It followed then that the appellate court could not have made a definitive finding of fact either. The case was remanded to the district court with instructions to both determine what justified the search and seizure of Ortega's property and whether that search was reasonable in both its inception and scope.\n\nJustice Scalia agreed that the case should be remanded, but felt it was not helpful to call for a case-by-case assessment, since it was difficult to make practical use of. He found fault with O'Connor's comment, justifying her \"operating realities\" test, that some public workplaces might be \"so open\" as to offer no reasonable expectation of privacy. \"No clue is provided as to how open 'so open' must be; much less is it suggested how police officers are to gather the facts necessary for this refined inquiry ... [I]t is so devoid of content that it produces, rather than eliminates, uncertainty in this field.\"\n\nThe plurality's standard could not be right if it led to a conclusion that the Fourth Amendment did not apply to a work-related entry into Ortega's office.\n\nWhether it was a supervisor or police officer entering the office, he said, only made a difference as to whether the search was reasonable, not whether the Fourth Amendment applies. When a firefighter enters a house where an alarm has gone off, he noted, \"we do not ask whether the occupant has a reasonable expectation of privacy (and hence Fourth Amendment protection) vis-a-vis firemen, but rather whether—given the fact that the Fourth Amendment covers private dwellings—intrusion for the purpose of extinguishing a fire is reasonable\", citing the Court's \"Michigan v. Tyler\" ruling.\n\nScalia argued that the offices and desks of public employees were covered by the Fourth Amendment as a general matter, choosing his words to avoid the \"Katz\" rule that places exposed to public view are not covered by the Fourth Amendment since some government offices, as O'Connor had noted, were subject to unrestricted public access. \"Government searches to retrieve work-related materials or to investigate violations of workplace rules—searches of the sort that are regarded as reasonable and normal in the private employer context—do not violate the Fourth Amendment.\" Since the evidence in the case did not support a summary judgement, he joined his colleagues in ordering the case remanded.\n\nAt the outset of his dissent, signed by Justices Brennan, Marshall and Stevens, Justice Blackmun said \"The facts of this case are simple and straightforward. Dr. Ortega had an expectation of privacy in his office, desk, and file cabinets, which were the target of a search by petitioners that can be characterized only as investigatory in nature.\" He disagreed with the plurality that there was anything special about a public workplace that justified a lower standard for such searches, and called the intrusion an unconstitutional search. Not only had it found what were to him clear facts in dispute, it had nevertheless chosen to derive a standard from a case it had remanded to resolve that dispute. \"As a result, the standard that emerges makes reasonable almost any workplace search by a public employer.\"\n\nAs to the facts, Blackmun contended the plurality had been confused, partially relying on Ortega's removal of the computer as a reason to consider the intrusion reasonable when, he noted, the record itself had testimony from Friday that this had \"not\" triggered the search. Dr. O'Connor had further admitted in his deposition that there was an investigatory interest in the contents of Ortega's office. The searchers had also consulted with a lawyer and waited until the evening. \"The search in question stemmed neither from a Hospital policy nor from a practice of routine entrances into Dr. Ortega's office\", he wrote. \"It was plainly exceptional and investigatory in nature. Accordingly, there is no significant factual dispute in this case.\"\n\nBlackmun began his disagreement with the plurality's embrace of the reasonable suspicion standard by agreeing with it that government employees retained their Fourth Amendment rights at work. He accepted as well that routine work-related intrusions might diminish their expectation of privacy. He did not accept that such intrusions would eliminate it.\n\nThe Court had always recognized Fourth Amendment rights in offices, he said, despite the understanding that it would be visited by others. The plurality did recognize, he conceded, another point: that a search unreasonable in one context might be reasonable in another. But\n\nThus he thought it especially important that the context of the search be considered.\n\nJustice Blackmun reminded the plurality that his concurring opinion in \"T.L.O.\", from which Justice O'Connor had drawn support for her \"special need\" argument, was meant to address an error he believed that case's plurality had made. The balancing test he had proposed there was not needed here, since \"[t]here was no special practical need that might have justified dispensing with the warrant and probable cause requirements.\" The time and effort required to get a warrant, he said, would not have detracted from the hospital's mission of providing quality patient care and educating new psychiatrists. An independent review by a magistrate might, he added, have helped make the search not only constitutional but more efficient, since they would have been forced to list and justify every aspect of the office and desk they wished to look through.\n\nAnd even if there were a special need, the balancing test would still not be necessary.\n\nDespite claiming to have drawn well-defined standards from the facts of the case, the two categories of searches it had approved as not requiring warrants, they were, Blackmun felt, so broadly drawn that \"it is difficult to imagine a search that would not fit into one or the other ...\"\n\nThe case was closely watched by the parties to \"National Treasury Employees Union v. Von Raab\", then on appeal to the Fifth Circuit and seen as likely to reach the Supreme Court (as it eventually did). It involved a challenge by employees of the United States Customs Service to a proposal by the agency that employees in certain positions submit to mandatory drug testing. The employees' union had sued to block it, arguing it was a violation of their Fourth Amendment protections. \n\nThe union and the American Civil Liberties Union, which had also filed an \"amicus\" brief urging affirmance in \"O'Connor\", praised the court's holding that public employees had Fourth Amendment rights in the workplace. They said it made their arguments in \"Von Raab\" stronger. The Justice Department maintained that it still believed the Customs Service's drug testing requirement would be held constitutional.\n\nWithin two months of the Court's decision the Ninth Circuit formally remanded it to the district court. A new trial was held five years later, in 1992, again before Judge Vukasin. Dr. Ortega once again had to represent himself, and when the defense failed to receive his witness list the court sanctioned him by refusing to allow him to present them. As a result he was largely limited to cross-examining the opposing witnesses, and when the defense was done presenting its case the court granted its motion for a directed verdict.\n\nOrtega appealed to the Ninth Circuit again, retaining his lawyer to do so. He challenged not only the sanctioning but the trial court's refusal to let him include Asher Rubin as a defendant. In late 1994 a three-judge panel heard the case; it announced its decision five months later.\n\nCircuit judge Diarmuid O'Scannlain wrote for a unanimous panel that the sanctions, while within limits of judicial discretion, had so adversely affected Ortega's case that the verdict was tainted. Reduced to merely cross-examining opposing witnesses, he could not present his own case-in-chief. And, further, they were unjustified as the trial record included a letter from Ortega to Paul Hammerness, the assistant attorney general handling the case, referring to \"the enclosed witness list\", that had been stamped as received by the court in November 1992.\n\n\"The court appears to have overlooked this evidence of Dr. Ortega's compliance\", O'Scannlain wrote. \"Dr. Ortega's compliance is not negated by the fact that opposing counsel failed to receive the list.\" Therefore, the sanctions against his witnesses had clearly been erroneous. The panel then affirmed the district court on its denial of the additional defendant, as the district court that had first heard the case dismissed that defendant on prosecutorial immunity grounds. Had Ortega wished to challenge that holding, the panel said, he had to have done so on his original appeal to the Ninth Circuit.\n\nOn remand, O'Connor and Friday, the only defendants left, changed their strategy and asserted qualified immunity, for the first time, dropping their claim that the need to secure or inventory state property justified their intrusion. Instead, they said, the claims of misconduct, particularly the alleged sexual harassment, made it necessary. During pretrial motions, Judge Marilyn Hall Patel, who took over the case since Vukasin had died, barred the use of qualified immunity and ruled that sexual harassment could not have justified the search. As a result both parties agreed not to introduce the book of poetry, photo and Valentine.\n\nA jury found for Ortega on all his claims. It awarded him $376,000 in compensatory damages, and $35,000 and $25,000 respectively against O'Connor and Friday respectively. Afterward, the district court awarded almost $32,000 in attorney's fees. O'Connor and Friday appealed.\n\nA three-judge panel, including two of the judges who had been on the 1985 panel, found Patel's rulings on qualified immunity and the sexual harassment claims worthy of consideration. Stephen Reinhardt, one of those original judges, noted that Judge Vukasin had rejected the qualified immunuity defense at the first trial and that the jury instructions Patel and both sides had approved made such a defense possible even if the exact words \"qualified immunity\" were not used. Nor were the defendants correct in arguing that there was no settled law before the Supreme Court's ruling. \"[I]t was clearly established in 1981 that, in the absence of an accepted practice or regulation to the contrary, government employees such as Dr. Ortega had a reasonable expectation of privacy in their private offices, desks, and file cabinets, thereby triggering the protections of the Fourth Amendment with regard to searches and seizures\", Reinhardt wrote. He quoted explicit language to that effect from the Supreme Court's 1966 holding in \"Hoffa v. United States\" and noted the Supreme Court plurality's citation of existing lower-court holdings saying the same thing. Even if it had not been, it was not \"reasonable under the circumstances\", as \"Terry v. Ohio\" required.\nO'Connor and Friday had argued that, by denying them the opportunity to raise the sexual harassment claims as a justification for the search, Patel had improperly granted what amounted to \"sua sponte\" partial summary judgement against them. Reinhardt countered that they had had adequate time to develop their defense and so the judge was \"procedurally free\" to do that. He turned to whether such a ruling was justified and not an abuse of discretion. Even if he resolved an issue of disputed fact in their favor and assumed that O'Connor and Friday knew of the sexual harassment allegations before they went into Ortega's office, the allegations themselves were vague, and one of them was ten years old. Thus, he continued, they did not create a reasonable suspicion that he was harassing residents, and even if they did they could not have reasonably established a likelihood that evidence supporting them would be found there. \"The search was, at best, a general and unbounded pursuit of anything that might tend to indicate any sort of malfeasance—a search that is almost by definition, unreasonable.\" It had also been properly excluded since its prejudicial value outweighed its probative value.\n\n\"It is now seventeen years since the search of Dr. Ortega's office occurred and his most personal letters and possessions were examined and seized. It is time to bring this matter to a conclusion\", wrote Reinhardt. He dismissed the remaining grounds for appeal as meritless, and the panel unanimously upheld the district court. The appellate decision was not further appealed. \n\nAfter the state paid his claim, amounting to over $700,000 with interest, Dr. Ortega was sued by one of his former attorneys for unpaid bills. The two settled the claim in arbitration, but after Ortega refused to comply, the attorney sued him and won an adjustment to the arbitration award correcting some errors made in calculating the interest rate. A state appellate court upheld the trial court verdict in 2001, saying Ortega's \"often rambling and incoherent narratives\" in briefs he wrote himself left them with little in the way of substantive legal argument. Ortega died in 2009.\n\nThe first case after \"O'Connor\" to involve the Fourth Amendment rights of government employees at work was, as expected, \"National Treasury Employees Union v. Von Raab\". A 5-4 majority held that the urine testing the Customs Service proposed for internal promotion to positions involving drug interdiction, carrying firearms or handling classified material was reasonable since it was \"not designed to serve the ordinary needs of law enforcement.\" Scalia, in a dissent joined by Stevens, called the program \"a kind of immolation of privacy and human dignity in symbolic opposition to drug use\". The Customs Service, he said, had not introduced \"real evidence of a real problem that will be solved by urine testing.\"\n\nLater, when turning down a 1997 challenge by employees of Puerto Rico Telephone to a proposed video surveillance plan, Judge Bruce M. Selya of the First Circuit called \"O'Connor\" \"[t]he watershed case in this enclave of Fourth Amendment jurisprudence\". His opinion surveyed a number of other district and circuit cases considering the \"operating realities\" of public workplaces to establish whether a legitimate expectation of privacy existed. \n\nA key issue was whether the workplace or portion in question was reserved for the employee's personal use. A judge in the District of Kansas had granted summary judgement to Johnson County Community College against its security guards who challenged its video surveillance of their locker room by noting that the locker area under view was not exclusive to any of them. This distinguished it from the Drug Enforcement Administration's surreptitious videotaping of two agents convicted of illegal wiretapping, where the Ninth Circuit suppressed the videos because it found the agents had exclusive use of their offices.\n\nIn a New York case that echoed Scalia's questions to Klein at oral argument, the Second Circuit found it reasonable for a judge to have court officers seize the contents of his just-fired law clerk's desk since the relationship between the two required free and complete access to each other's papers. As in cases preceding \"O'Connor\", a workplace policy on searches has been held to defeat or diminish expectations of privacy. The Ninth Circuit upheld a civilian engineer's discharge from the Naval Reserve was upheld on the grounds that regular workplace searches removed any expectation of privacy over documents revealing his bisexuality. An unenforced or absent policy has been held to create a legitimate expectation.\n\nAs Ortega's dispute with his lawyer was coming to an end, elsewhere in California the events were unfolding that would lead to the next case where the Court would consider the Fourth Amendment rights of public employees during administrative investigations. In 2000 the city of Ontario purchased 20 alphanumeric pagers for its police department SWAT team to carry on and off-duty. A department policy, never put in writing, said that \"light personal use\" was permitted but that the pager messages could be audited at any time.\n\nSeveral officers routinely exceeded the monthly character limit. The lieutenant in charge of the pagers at first allowed them to reimburse the city for the overage fees in exchange for not auditing the messages. Later, when he was \"tired of being a bill collector\", he and his superiors decided to audit the text messages to see if the character limit was too low.\n\nTranscripts of the pager messages, redacted to include those sent only during work hours, showed that many of them were not work-related, and some were sexually explicit. Two officers were disciplined. Afterwards, they sued the superior officers, the department, the city and the pager provider for violation of the Stored Communications Act and their Fourth Amendment rights. The district court held a jury trial, which determined the audit was work-related, and it ruled for the defendants.\n\nOn appeal the Ninth Circuit reversed, calling the audit an unreasonable search. After being denied their petition for an \"en banc\" rehearing, the defendants successfully petitioned the Supreme Court for \"certiorari\". The Court would only consider the Fourth Amendment claim, so the wireless provider was dropped as a petitioner there.\n\nThe case received much attention since it also was the first time the Court had considered Fourth Amendment rights in the rapidly expanding area of electronic telecommunications. Only Scalia and Stevens remained from the \"O'Connor\" court. As a result, it was also seen as a possible chance to resolve the conflict between the plurality's \"operating realities\" standard and Scalia's.\n\nIn June 2010, the Court unanimously upheld the search. Instead of choosing one of the \"O'Connor\" standards, it applied them both. Anthony Kennedy wrote for a seven-justice majority that since the audit had had a legitimate work-related purpose and its scope was limited to the pager messages sent at work, it was reasonable enough for the plurality in that case, and it would have been reasonable for a private-sector employer as Scalia had proposed.\n\nStevens and Scalia both wrote separate concurring opinions. The former felt that, under the case-by-case approach Blackmun had advocated in his \"O'Connor\" dissent, Quon in this case knew or should have known all his communications could have come under public scrutiny. Scalia's opinion of the \"operational realities\" test remained unchanged. He called it \"standardless and unsupported\" and said the \"Quon\" majority \"underscores the unworkability of that standard\".\n\nWhen considering what approach the Court would take in \"Quon\", George Washington University law professor Orin Kerr, a Fourth Amendment scholar, noted that courts have generally used the plurality standard from \"O'Connor\". \"Exactly how you get there is sort of tricky, though\", he commented. \"So courts have mostly just figured that four Justices is more than one and that they should follow the analysis in the concurring opinion.\"\n\nO'Connor biographer Ann Cary McFeatters writes that her and Scalia's separate opinions in this case were the first of many clashes between the two justices in their joint tenure on the Court. \"It would not be the last time Scalia went after her with verbal venom. It would not be the last time his doctrinaire certitude conflicted with her case-by-case approach.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1928393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928393", "title": "Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict", "text": "Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict\n\nThe Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict (OPAC), also known as the child soldier treaty, is a multilateral treaty whereby states agree to: 1) prohibit the conscription into the military of children under the age of 18; 2) ensure that military recruits are no younger than 16; and 3) prevent recruits aged 16 or 17 from taking a direct part in hostilities. The treaty also forbids non-state armed groups from recruiting anyone under the age of 18 for any purpose.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly adopted the treaty as a supplementary protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child by resolution 54/263 on 25 May 2000. The protocol came into force on 12 February 2002.\n\nAs of September 2018, 168 states are party to the protocol and a further 13 states have signed but not ratified it.\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989) defines a child as any person under the age of 18.\n\nThroughout history and in many cultures, children have been extensively involved in military campaigns. In World War I, in Great Britain 250,000 boys under 18 managed to join the army. In World War II, child soldiers fought throughout Europe, in the Warsaw Uprising, in the Jewish resistance, and in the Soviet Army. After the Cold War ended, the number of armed conflicts grew and the use of children for military purposes surged, affecting as many as 300,000 children worldwide annually by the end of the 1990s.\n\nProgress towards ending the use of children for military purposes has been slow, partly because many national armed forces have relied on children to fill their ranks. Initial efforts to limit the participation of children in armed conflict began with the adoption of the Additional Protocols to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, adopted in 1977 (Art. 77.2). The new Protocols prohibited the military recruitment of children aged under 15 and their direct participation in hostilities, but continued to allow state armed forces and non-state armed groups to recruit children from age 15 and use them in warfare. In addition, the Protocols did not prohibit belligerents from using children younger than 15 in hostilities when their participation was not \"direct\"; for example, as scouts, porters, informants, spies, message-carriers and in other support roles.\n\nWhen the same limited standards were incorporated into the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in 1989, children's rights advocates were left frustrated, believing that a treaty establishing the fundamental rights of children ought to protect them from all forms of military involvement. To achieve this, a small group of human rights campaigners and sympathetic governments began a global campaign for a new treaty, which was adopted in 2000 as the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict (OPAC).\n\nBy 1994, five years after the Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted, children's rights advocates and sympathetic governments had persuaded the international community to establish a working group of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Its mandate was to begin negotiations on a new protocol to the Convention that would raise standards regarding the use of children for military purposes.\n\nWhile the large majority of states negotiating the protocol were willing to end all military recruitment of children under the age of 18 (the so-called \"straight-18\" principle), a small number were opposed: Bangladesh, Cuba, Israel, South Korea, Kuwait, Pakistan, the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US). According to Jo Becker, a human rights advocate actively involved in the negotiations:\n\nGovernments began a series of annual negotiations in Geneva, but by 1998, negotiations floundered as it became clear that governments that had long used under-eighteens in their national armed forces, notably the United States and United Kingdom, were not willing to support a new standard that conflicted with their national practice.\n\nWhile some of the states opposed to the change said nevertheless that they would not block it, the US insisted on its position, according to Becker.\n\nInstrumental in gathering high-level support for the treaty was a proposal by children's rights advocates for a major study on the effect of armed conflict on children. The study was proposed by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, commissioned by the UN General Assembly, and produced by Graça Machel in 1996: \"Impact of armed conflict on children\". The report was particularly concerned with the use of younger children as participants in armed conflict, presenting evidence that many thousands of children were being killed, maimed, and psychiatrically injured around the world every year. It also called for an end to the recruitment of children by all armed forces.\n\nAs negotiations on the new treaty stalled in 1998, the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers (now known as Child Soldiers International) was established by six human rights and humanitarian organizations (Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, International Federation Terre des Hommes, Jesuit Refugee Service, the Quaker United Nations Office (Geneva) and Save the Children). With the goal of incorporating the straight-18 principle into the new treaty, the Coalition quickly seeded national affiliates in more than thirty countries. The Coalition worked in alliance with a small group of states actively advocating for the straight-18 principle internationally: Canada, Denmark, Ethiopia, Finland, Japan, Mozambique, Norway, Portugal, South Africa, Sweden, and Switzerland.\n\nWith initial funding from the Canadian government, the Coalition organised a series of intergovernmental regional conferences; the African and Latin-American conferences strongly supported the straight-18 principle. The European conference supported an end to the participation of children in armed conflict, but not their recruitment, due to opposition from Austria, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and the UK, which were all recruiting children aged 16 or 17 into their own armed forces. (As of 2017, all except Luxembourg were still doing so.)\n\nBy 1999, the straight-18 principle enjoyed the support of the large majority of states, as well as the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the International Labour Organization, the European Parliament, the Organization of African Unity, and the World Council of Churches.\n\nIn the final negotiations, only five states still advocated against the straight-18 principle: Egypt, Kuwait, Singapore, the UK and, most trenchantly, the US. The US, with British support, continued to insist that it would not support a treaty that prevented it from sending 17 year-olds into battle. According to Becker, the US relented following an intervention from Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, although the US and UK continued to insist on their right to recruit children from age 16 (UK) and 17 (US).\n\nThis change allowed a compromise consensus between the negotiating parties, in which the new treaty would not prevent states from recruiting children into their armed forces from age 16 or 17, but would require that \"all feasible measures\" be taken to ensure that children did not participate \"directly\" in hostilities.\n\nThe OPAC treaty has been widely ratified. As of February 2018, 167 states had ratified or acceded to the treaty; a further 13 states had signed but not yet ratified it.\n\nIn addition, following OPAC's adoption the number of states restricting enlistment to adults aged over 18 has increased substantially, according to Child Soldiers International: from 83 in 2001 to 126 in 2016, which is 71 percent of countries with armed forces. These include several states where child recruitment had been routine, including Colombia and Sierra Leone. Approximately 60 non-state armed groups have also entered agreements to stop or scale back their use of children.\n\nDespite this trend, Child Soldiers International reports that the recruitment of children for military purposes remains widespread, including by armed forces in the three most populous countries – China, India and the United States – and the most economically powerful (all G7 countries apart from Italy and Japan). A large number of non-state armed groups also recruit and use children routinely, especially following a recent surge in child recruitment by militant Islamist movements in Africa and the Middle East, as well as by militias opposing them.\n\nOn 21 February 2018 a meeting was held at the UN to mark the treaty's 18th anniversary. The meeting, co-sponsored by Child Soldiers International, UNICEF, and the governments of Belgium, Canada, Colombia, France and Sierra Leone, was attended by approximately 100 delegates. The Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, reported on the progress made and still to be achieved since the treaty was adopted:\n\nWe have really come a long way. Today, 18 years later, we should celebrate the quantifiable progress accomplished. The issue of children and armed conflict has been squarely placed on the international peace and security agenda. Since 2000, at least 130,000 child soldiers were released due to the collective efforts of child protection actors. Thousands more were spared the ordeal of recruitment and use – because their country has joined OPAC and put in place measures to protect them. Making sure all boys and girls released and their communities have access to meaningful reintegration – to help them overcome the harrowing experiences they have been through – is essential. But this remains a huge challenge.\n\nThe main obligations of the OPAC treaty are as follows:\n\nOther provisions of the treaty include the following:\n\nThe sentence \"States Parties shall take all feasible measures to ensure that members of their armed forces who have not attained the age of 18 years do not take a direct part in hostilities\" was adapted from Article 77.2 of the Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and relating to the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts, adopted in 1977, with an alteration from fifteen years to eighteen years and some other minor modifications. (\"The Parties to the conflict shall take all feasible measures in order that children who have not attained the age of fifteen years do not take a direct part in hostilities and, in particular, they shall refrain from recruiting them into their armed forces.\")\n\nThe ICRC commentary on Protocol I makes clear that it does not require a complete ban on the use of children in conflict. The ICRC had proposed that the Protocol require parties to \"take all \"necessary\" measures\" but final text uses the wording \"take all \"feasible\" measures\" which is not a total prohibition on their doing so. Furthermore, refraining from recruiting children under fifteen does not exclude children who volunteer for armed service. During the negotiations over the clause \"take a part in hostilities,\" the word \"direct\" was added, opening up the possibility that child volunteers could be involved indirectly in hostilities, gathering and transmitting military information, helping in the transportation of arms and munitions, provision of supplies, etc.\n\nThe Australian Defence Force Cadets follows the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict but still accepts cadets between the ages of 13–18 (except staff) and sometimes brings them onto ADF bases.\n\nAs noted above, at the time of OPAC's negotiation, the UK joined the US in actively resisting the majority view of negotiating states that 18 should be the minimum age for all forms of military recruitment. Then, as now, the UK permits its armed forces to enlist from age 16, and allows children to apply aged 15 years, 7 months.\n\nOn ratification of the treaty, the UK's binding declaration stated its understanding that, while it would endeavour not to use child recruits in hostilities, the protocol \"...would not exclude the deployment of members of its armed forces under the age of 18 to take a direct part in hostilities where: a) there is a genuine military need to deploy their unit or ship to an area in which hostilities are taking place; and b) by reason of the nature and urgency of the situation:- i) it is not practicable to withdraw such persons before deployment; or ii) to do so would undermine the operational effectiveness of their ship or unit, and thereby put at risk the successful completion of the military mission and/or the safety of other personnel.\"\n\nAccording to Child Soldiers International, the UK deployed 22 armed forces personnel aged under 18 to Iraq and Afghanistan between 2003 and 2010. The Committee on the Rights of the Child has urged the UK to alter its policy so as to ensure that children cannot take part in hostilities under any circumstances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31544020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31544020", "title": "Samoan constitutional referendum, 1990", "text": "Samoan constitutional referendum, 1990\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Samoa on 12 November 1990. Voters were asked whether they approved of the introduction of universal suffrage and a second chamber of Parliament. The first change was approved by 52.6% of voters, but the second opposed by 60.7%. Voter turnout was 74.3% for the first question and 73.7% for the second.\n\nAlthough universal suffrage was introduced, candidates in elections still had to be part of the Matai.\n"}
{"id": "55534307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55534307", "title": "Société Nationale Industrielle Aérospatiale v Lee Kui Jak", "text": "Société Nationale Industrielle Aérospatiale v Lee Kui Jak\n\nThe case concerned a fatal helicopter crash which killed Yong Joon San, a wealthy business magnate, amongst others. Mr Yong's widow tried to sue various parties, including Société Nationale Industrielle Aérospatiale (SNIA) as manufacturer of the helicopter, in the courts of Texas under the Wrongful Death Statute in that state. SNIA asked the courts to restrain the claimants from proceedings in court by way of an anti-suit injunction. Their applications failed at first instance and on appeal, but succeeded in the Privy Council.\n\nIn handing down the judgment of the Privy Council, Lord Goff elaborated on the jurisdiction to grant anti-suit injunctions following his earlier decision in , and set out the basic principles to be applied in relation to applications for such injunctions. He held that it was not enough that the foreign court was not the most appropriate forum - it was necessary to show that the foreign proceedings must be \"vexatious or oppressive\" for an injunction restraining them to be issued.\n\nOn 16 December 1980 a Puma 330J helicopter crashed near Kuala Belait, Brunei killing all 12 people on board, including Yong Joon San. Mr Yong was a very successful businessman, and was estimated have a net worth of approximately US$20 million at his death, and the year before he died he had reportedly earned approximately US$1,800,000. An official inquiry was launched, which concluded that the case of the accident was \"the initial cause of the accident was due to the mistaken health monitoring of the gearbox leading to a deterioration of the mechanical condition of the gearbox components.\"\n\nMr Yong's widow (Lee Kui Jak) and brother (Yong Joon Kim) brought proceedings for compensation. Upon the recommendation of their lawyers they brought the proceedings against a number of parties, including SNIA, in the courts of Texas. Their lawyer gave evidence to the effect that this was for two reasons: (1) stricter product liability laws, and (2) higher damages in Texas.\n\nSNIA initially tried to have the action in Texas transferred to the Federal courts, and then sought to stay those proceedings on \"forum non conveniens\" grounds. Both applications were ultimately unsuccessful, and so they sought injunctions in the Brunei courts to restrain the claimants from pursuing the Texas proceedings.\n\nThe application for an injunction failed at first instance and in the Brunei Court of Appeal. SNIA then appealed to the Privy Council. Lord Goff gave the advice of the Board.\n\nAfter reciting the facts and the history of the proceedings in Texas, he then reviewed the law in relation to anti-suit injunctions. He reviewed the speech of Lord Scarman in \"Castanho v Brown & Root (UK) Limited\" [1981] AC 557, and the speech of Lord Diplock in \"MacShannon v Rockware Glass Ltd\" [1978] AC 795. He referred in particular to the passage of Lord Scarman in \"Castanho\":\n\nHe then noted that the injunction operates against the litigants personally, not by way of interference with the foreign proceedings themselves. He cited with approval the statement of Sir John Leach VC in \"Bushby v Munday\" (1821) 5 Mad 297:\nLord Goff then reviewed various other judicial decisions relating to anti-suit injunctions, including his own earlier decision in \"South Carolina Insurance Co v Assurantie Maatschappij \"De Zeven Provincient\" NV\" [1987] 1 AC 24, which he now indicated he disapproved. He then noted that earlier authorities had been \"overtaken by events\", and now needed to reconsidered in light of the \"Spiliada\" decision. He added that to obtain an injunction it was not sufficient to merely show that the foreign court was not the natural forum, although that would clearly be necessary. In addition it would be necessary to show that (a) being forced to contest the foreign proceedings would be vexatious or oppressive, and (b) that restraining the foreign proceedings would not deprive the other party of a legitimate advantage in those proceedings.\n\nThe claimants argued that because the proceedings in Texas were so far advanced, they should constitute a \"Cambridgeshire\" factor as outlined in the \"Spiliada\" case. Lord Goff declined to accept that. In \"Cambridgeshire\" there was a related case that extremely complex and similar. In the instant case the Texan lawyers had pushed forward an ordinary trial. A party could not artificially create a \"Cambridgeshire\" type nexus with a proceeding simply by diligently and expeditiously pursuing procedural steps.\n\nLord Goff noted that the claimants had given various undertakings (not to seek a jury trial in Texas, not to seek punitive damages, not to rely upon strict liability under Texas law) which negated much of what might otherwise be considered vexatious or oppressive to a defendant. However, the ability to claim a third-party contribution from one of their co-defendants, Bristow Malaysia, the operators of the fateful helicopter, had been compromised by a settlement agreement thereby exculpating them from further claims in Texas. Accordingly, SNIA would be unable to claim a contribution from the party who, according to the official accident report, was primarily responsible for the deaths of those on board. This, Lord Goff held, was sufficiently oppressive.\n\nLord Goff then turned to consider whether restraining the proceedings would deprive the claimants of a legitimate advantage in the Texas courts. Having abandoned many of the plaintiff's advantages by undertaking they sought to argue that procedural mechanisms like wider pre-trial discovery were a legitimate advantage in the Texas courts. But the Privy Council were not persuaded.\n\nThe case remains good law today. Lord Goff cited the case with approval in his subsequent decision on anti-suit injunctions in the House of Lords in .\n\nThe case has been repeatedly cited as authority for its central proposition. In the court amplified upon the \"Aérospatiale\" test, setting out several core propositions:\n"}
{"id": "50738117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50738117", "title": "Software relicensing", "text": "Software relicensing\n\nSoftware relicensing is applied in open-source software development when software licenses of software modules are incompatible and are required to be compatible for a greater combined work. Licenses applied to software as copyrightable works, in source code as binary form, can contain contradictory clauses. This requirements can make it impossible to combine source code or content of several software works to create a new combined one.\n\nSometimes open-source software projects get stuck in a license incompatibility situation. Often the only feasible way to resolve this situation is re-licensing of all participating software parts. For successful relicensing the agreement of all involved copyright holders, typically the developers, to a changed license is required. While in the free and open-source domain achieving 100% coverage of all authors is often impossible due to the many contributors involved, often it is assumed that a great majority is sufficient. For instance, Mozilla assumed an author coverage of 95% to be sufficient. Others in the FOSS domain, as Eric S. Raymond, came to different conclusions regarding the requirements for relicensing of a whole code base.\n\nAn early example of an open-source project who did successfully re-license for license compatibility reasons is the Mozilla project and their Firefox browser. The source code of Netscape's Communicator 4.0 browser was originally released in 1998 under the Netscape Public License/Mozilla Public License but was criticised by the FSF and OSI for being incompatible. Around 2001 Time Warner, exercising its rights under the Netscape Public License, and at the request of the Mozilla Foundation, relicensed all code in Mozilla that was under the Netscape Public License (including code by other contributors) to an MPL 1.1/GPL 2.0/LGPL 2.1 tri-license, thus achieving GPL-compatibility.\n\nThe Vorbis library was originally licensed as LGPL, but in 2001 the license was changed to the BSD license with endorsement of Richard Stallman to encourage adoption.\n\nThe VLC project also has a complicated license history due to license compatibility: in 2007 it decided for license compatibility reasons to not upgrade to the just released GPLv3. After the VLC was removed from Apple App Store at the beginning of 2011, in October 2011 the VLC project re-licensed the VLC library part from the GPLv2 to the LGPLv2 to achieve better compatibility. In July 2013 the VLC application could then be resubmitted to the iOS App Store relicensed under the Mozilla Public License.\n\n7-Zip's LZMA SDK, originally dual-licensed under both the GNU LGPL and Common Public License, with an additional special exception for linked binaries, was placed by Igor Pavlov in the public domain on December 2, 2008.\n\nThe GNU TLS project adopted the LGPLv3 license in 2011 but in 2013 relicensed their code back to LGPLv2.1 due to serious license compatibility problems.\n\nThe GNU Free Documentation License in version 1.2 is not compatible with the widely used Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike license, which was a problem for instance for the Wikipedia. Therefore, at the request of the Wikimedia Foundation the FSF added with version 1.3 of the GFDL a time-limited section allowing specific types of websites using the GFDL to additionally offer their work under the CC BY-SA license. Following in June 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation migrated their projects (Wikipedia, etc.) by dual licensing to the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike as main license, additional to the previously used GFDL. An improved license compatibility with the greater free content ecosystem was given as reason for the license change.\n\nIn 2010 the OGRE project changed their license from the LGPL to the MIT License; a simpler license text was given as reason.\n\nAnother case was the relicensing of GPLv2 licensed linux kernel header files to the BSD license by Google for their Android library Bionic. To get rid of the GPL, Google claimed that the header files were cleaned from any copyright-able work, reducing them to non-copyrightable \"facts\". This interpretation was challenged for instance by Raymond Nimmer, a law professor at the University of Houston Law Center.\n\nIn November 2013 POV-Ray was relicensed under the Affero General Public License version 3 (or later), after being distributed since 1991 under a FOSS-incompatible, non-commercial source available custom \"POV-Ray license\". POV-Ray was developed before FOSS licenses became widely used, therefore the developers wrote their own license which became later a problem due to license incompatibility with the FOSS ecosystem.\n\nIn 2014 the FreeCAD project changed their license from GPL to LGPLv2 due to GPLv3/GPLv2 incompatibilities.\n\nIn 2014 Gang Garrison 2 relicensed from GPLv3 to MPL for improved library compatibility.\n\nAlso the Dolphin project changed its license from \"GPLv2 only\" to \"GPLv2 or any later\" for better compatibility in May 2015.\n\nIn June 2015 mpv started the relicensation process of the project's GPL licensed source code for improved license compatibility under LGPLv2 by getting consent from the majority (95%+) of the contributing developers. In August 2016 approx. 90% of the authors could be reached and consented. In October 2017 the switch was finalized.\n\nIn July 2015 Seafile switched for improved license compatibility, especially with Git, from the GPLv3 to the GPLv2.\n\nIn 2015, Natron was relicensed from MPL to the GPLv2 to allow better commercialization.\n\nIn 2016 MAME achieved a relicensing of the code base to BSD/GPL after struggling for years with an own written custom license, with non-commercial license terms.\n\nIn August 2016 the MariaDB Corporation relicensed the database proxy server MaxScale from GPL to the non-FOSS but source-available and time-limited \"Business source license\" (BSL) which defaults back after three years to GPL. In 2017 followed version 1.1, revised with feedback also from Bruce Perens.\n\nFor a long time D back-end source code was available but under a non-open source conform license, because it was partially developed at Symantec and couldn't be relicensed as open source. On April 9, 2017 also the back-end part could be relicensed to the open-source conform Boost Software License.\n\nOn July 27, 2017 Microsoft Research changed the license of Space combat simulator Allegiance from the MSR shared source license, under which the game was opened in 2004, to the MIT license.\n\n"}
{"id": "33356633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33356633", "title": "South African law of delict", "text": "South African law of delict\n\nThe South African law of delict engages primarily with \"the circumstances in which one person can claim compensation from another for harm that has been suffered.\" JC Van der Walt and Rob Midgley define a delict \"in general terms [...] as a civil wrong,\" and more narrowly as \"wrongful and blameworthy conduct which causes harm to a person.\" Importantly, however, the civil wrong must be an actionable one, resulting in liability on the part of the wrongdoer or tortfeasor.\n\nThe delictual inquiry \"is in fact a loss-allocation exercise, the principles and rules of which are set out in the law of delict.\" The classic remedy for a delict is compensation: a claim of damages for the harm caused. If this harm takes the form of patrimonial loss, one uses the Aquilian action; if pain and suffering associated with bodily injury, a separate action arises, similar to the Aquilian action but of Germanic origin; finally, if the harm takes the form of injury to a personality interest (an \"injuria\"), the claim is made in terms of the \"actio injuriarum\".\n\nDelict in Roman law fell under the law of obligations. Roman-Dutch law, based on Roman law, is the strongest influence on South Africa's common law, where delict also falls under the law of obligations. As has been pointed out, however,\n\nIn contrast to the casuistic approach of the Roman law of delict, the South African law of delict is based [...] on three pillars: the \"actio legis Aquiliae\", the \"actio iniuriarum\" and the action for pain and suffering. Unlike the last-mentioned action which developed in Roman-Dutch law, the first two remedies had already played an important role in Roman law.\n\nDamages in delict are broadly divided into\n\n\nAlthough delict may be described as at bottom a system of loss allocation, it is important to note that not every damage or loss will incur liability at law. \"Sound policy,\" wrote Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr, \"lets losses lie where they fall, except where a special reason can be shown for interference.\" As Christian von Bar puts it, \"The law of delict can only operate as an effective, sensible and fair system of compensation if excessive liability is avoided. It is important to prevent it becoming a disruptive factor in an economic sense. No law based on rational principles can impose liability on each and every act of carelessness.\" There are, for this reason, in-built mechanisms in the South African law of delict to keep liability within reasonable limits. The element of fault, introduced below, is one such. If its conditions are not met, liability will not arise.\n\nVan der Walt and Midgley list the elements of a delict as follows:\n\n\nThe elements of harm and conduct are fact-based inquiries, while causation is part-factual and part-normative, and wrongfulness and fault are entirely normative: that is, value-based, in that they articulate a wider societal policy perspective. Delict is \"inherently a flexible set of principles that embody social policy.\"\n\nThe harm element is \"the cornerstone of the law of delict, and our fundamental point of departure.\" Once the nature of the harm is identified, it is possible to identify the nature of the enquiry and the elements that need to be proven. There is an interplay between the elements of harm and wrongfulness, and a similar interaction between the way in which we determine harm and assess damages. \"For conceptual clarity,\" suggest the academic authorities, \"it is always important to remember where we are going along the problem-solving route towards the intended destination.\"\n\nIt is vitally important that the conduct be voluntary. There must be no compulsion, in other words, and it must not be a reflex action. (The person engaging in the conduct must also be \"compos mentis\" or in sound mind and of sober senses, not unconscious or intoxicated, for example. He must be accountable for his actions, having the ability to distinguish between right and wrong, and to act accordingly. Unless this standard of accountability is secured, he will not be accountable for his actions or omissions. There will be no fault.) Conduct relates to overt behaviour, so that thoughts, for example, are not delictual. If it is a positive act or commission, it may be either physical or a statement or comment; if an omission—that is, a failure to do or say something—liability arises only in special circumstances. There is no general legal duty to prevent harm.\n\nConduct in the law of delict is usually divided into factual and legal causation. Factual causation is proven by a \"demonstration that the wrongful act was a \"causa sine qua non\" of the loss.\" This is also known as the \"but-for\" test. A successful demonstration, however, \"does not necessarily result in legal liability.\" Once factual causation is proved, a second enquiry arises: Is the wrongful act linked sufficiently closely or directly to the loss for legal liability to ensue? Is there legal liability, or is the loss \"too remote\"? This is basically a juridical problem. Considerations of policy may play a part in its solution. The courts take a flexible approach based on considerations of reasonableness and fairness and justice, although there are misgivings. As the court put it in \"Fourway Haulage SA v SA National Roads Agency\",\n\nConsiderations of fairness and equity must inevitably depend on the view of the individual judge. In considering the appropriate approach to wrongfulness, I said that any yardstick which renders the outcome of a dispute dependent on the idiosyncratic view of individual judges is unacceptable. The same principle must, in my view, apply with reference to remoteness. That is why I believe we should resist the temptation of a response that remoteness depends on what the judge regards as fair, reasonable and just in all the circumstances of that particular case. Though it presents itself as a criterion of general validity, it is, in reality, no criterion at all.\n\nIn summary, delictual liability requires a factual causal link between wrongful and culpable conduct, on the one hand, and loss suffered on the other. There must also be legal causation; the loss must not be too remote. To establish legal causation, the courts apply a flexible test based on reasonableness, fairness and justice, or policy and normative considerations. The flexible test, or \"elastic test for legal causation,\" incorporates subsidiary tests; it does not replace them.\n\nRigidity, the court held in \"Smit v Abrahams\", is inconsistent with the flexible approach or criterion in South African law, whereby the court considers on the basis of policy considerations whether there is a sufficiently close connection between act and consequence. That question has to be answered on the basis of policy considerations and the limits of reasonableness, fairness and justice. Reasonable foreseeability cannot be regarded as the single decisive criterion for determining liability, but it can indeed be used as a subsidiary test in the application of the flexible criterion. The flexibility criterion is predominant; any attempt to detract from it should be resisted. Comparisons between the facts of the case which has to be resolved and the facts of other cases in which a solution has already been found can obviously be useful and of value, and sometimes decisive, but one should be careful not to attempt to distill fixed or generally applicable rules or principles from the process of comparison. There is only one principle, the court found: To determine whether the plaintiff's damages are too remote from the defendant's act to hold the defendant liable therefor, considerations of policy (reasonableness, fairness and justice) should be applied to the particular facts of the case.\n\nA \"novus actus interveniens\" is an independent and extraneous factor or event which is not foreseeable and which actively contributes to the occurrence of harm after the original harm has occurred. This is the case, for example, in \"International Shipping v Bentley\", where there was an auditing error, and in \"Mafesa v Parity\", with a \"crutch mishap.\"\n\nThe \"talem qualem\" rule (or \"thin-skull\" or \"egg-skull\" rule) provides that, in the words of \"Smit v Abrahams\", \"the wrongdoer takes his victim as he finds him.\" An important case here is \"Smith v Leach Brain\".\n\nFault refers to blameworthiness or culpability, while \"culpa\" is fault in a broad sense, in that it includes \"dolus\" and \"culpa\" in the strict sense. Accountability is a prerequisite for fault: The person at fault, to be at fault, must be \"culpae capax\", having the ability to know the difference between right and wrong and to act accordingly. Unless one is in this sense accountable, one is not accountable for one's actions or omissions; one is, in other words, \"culpa incapax\". It is important to remember that there is a distinction between the question of absence of voluntariness of conduct and that of accountability. Voluntary conduct entails no compulsion; the conduct must not have been reflex; the person must have been \"compos mentis\", or of sound mind and sober senses, not unconscious, intoxicated etcetera.\n\nAccountability relates to overt behaviour (Thoughts cannot be delictual.) There must be some positive act or commission, either physical or in the form of a statement or comment, or else an omission: a failure to do or say something. Liability only arises in special circumstances: There is no general legal duty to prevent harm. Factors excluding liability include\n\n\nThere are two main components of intention:\n\n\n\"Animus iniuriani\" arises when both requirements—direction of will and knowledge of wrongfulness—are satisfied. The test is subjective. There are exceptions to the requirement of knowledge of wrongfulness, as in the case of deprivation of liberty or wrongful arrest, which results in attentuated \"animus iniuriandi\".\n\nThere are several defences which exclude intent:\n\n\nThe test for negligence is one of the objective or reasonable person (\"bonus paterfamilias\"). The test requires \"an adequate and consistent level of care on the part of all legal subjects.\" It \"does not represent a standard of exceptional skill, giftedness or care but does also not represent a standard of undeveloped skills, recklessness or thoughtlessness.\" It is the standard of the ordinary individual who takes reasonable chances and reasonable precautions.\n\nThe test has two pillars:\n\n\nA negligent misstatement takes the form of conduct or words that mislead a person to act to his or her detriment; if conduct, it may take the form either of omission or of commission.\n\nThere are, as has already been noted, three main delictual remedies:\n\n\nThe various delictual actions are not mutually exclusive. It is possible for a person to suffer various forms of harm at the same time, which means that a person may simultaneously claim remedies under more than one action.\n\nThere are five essential elements for liability in terms of the \"actio legis Aquiliae\":\n\n\nOne obvious prerequisite for liability in terms of the law of delict is that the plaintiff must have suffered harm; in terms of the Aquilian action, that harm must be patrimonial, which traditionally meant monetary loss sustained due to physical damage to a person or property. Now, however, patrimonial loss also includes monetary loss resulting from injury to the nervous system and pure economic loss. A plaintiff may claim compensation both for loss actually incurred and for prospective loss, including, for instance, the loss of earning capacity, future profits, income and future expenses.\n\nDelictual harm is usually caused, if not always directly, by human conduct. The person responsible must have legal capacity, and his conduct ought to be voluntary, much as in criminal law. Delictual conduct includes positive acts and omissions and statements. One of the reasons why the law distinguishes between different forms of conduct is that this affects the way the courts deal with the question of wrongfulness. Courts tend to be stricter when considering whether omissions or statements are wrongful.\n\nThe defendant's conduct must be wrongful or unlawful. (These terms are usually interchangeable.) Whether or not conduct is wrongful is a question of social policy; the court is required to make a value judgment as to its acceptability.\n\nThe principle to be applied is one of objective reasonableness. The court inquires into whether or not the defendant's conduct is socially acceptable\n\n\nObjectively reasonable conduct accords with the legal convictions or \"boni mores\" of the society.\n\nWhen a court holds that conduct is wrongful, it makes a value judgment that, in certain categories of cases, particular people should be responsible for the harm they cause. This involves a balancing of the interests of the plaintiff, the defendant and of society in general.\n\nIn determining whether or not conduct is objectively reasonable, the courts apply certain well-established rules of thumb. These are determined by the nature and consequences of the conduct:\n\n\nAn omission, as noted previously, is not \"prima facie\" wrongful, even when physical damage is caused. The courts' tendency is to be more lenient for omissions than for positive conduct. An omission will be considered wrongful only if there was a duty to act positively to prevent harm to the plaintiff. The existence of a legal duty to act positively depends on the legal (rather than the moral) convictions of the community. The following are examples of how this standard is met:\n\n\nNervous or psychiatric injury is sustained through the medium of the eye or the ear without direct physical impact: that means, a mental rather than a physical injury. For patrimonial loss to be actionable in the case of emotional shock, it must have been intentionally or negligently inflicted. The objective-reasonableness test may be satisfied by looking at the foreseeability of such an injury. There are six established principles:\n\n\nA distinction should be drawn between defences aimed at the wrongfulness element and defences which serve to exclude fault. Grounds of justification may be described as circumstances which occur typically or regularly in practice, and which indicate conclusively that interference with a person's legally-protected interests is reasonable and therefore lawful. They are practical examples of circumstances justifying a \"prima fade\" infringement of a recognised right or interest, according to the fundamental criterion of reasonableness. They are another expression of the legal convictions of the society.\n\nConsent to injury, or \"Volenti non fit injuria\", is a full defence; if successful, there is no delict. As a general defence, it can take two forms:\n\n\nThere are five requirements for the defence of consent:\n\n\nNecessity is conduct directed at an innocent person as a result of duress or compulsion, or a threat by a third party or an outside force. Private defence (or self-defence) is conduct directed at the person responsible for the duress or compulsion or threat. There is, therefore, an important distinction between the two.\n\nIn cases of necessity and private defence, the question is this: Under which circumstances would the legal convictions of the community consider it reasonable to inflict harm to prevent it? The test is objective. It requires a balancing of the parties' and of society's interests. The role of the person against whom the defensive conduct is directed is an important factor in determining whether defence or necessity is being pled. An act of necessity is calculated to avert harm by inflicting it on an innocent person, whereas an act of defence is always directed at a wrongdoer.\n\nA person acts in \"private defence,\" and therefore lawfully, when he uses force to ward off an unlawful attack against his or someone else's property or person. A person acts in \"self-defence\" when he defends his own body against unlawful attack by someone else. One therefore cannot invoke the justification of self-defence when acting in the interests of another person, but it is possible to invoke the justification of private defence when acting in one's own interests.\n\nConduct will be justified as an act in private defence or self-defence if it is\n\n\nThe violence used in defence must not exceed what is reasonably necessary to avert the threatened danger:\n\n\nAn act of necessity may be described as lawful conduct directed against an innocent person for the purpose of protecting an interest of the actor or of a third party (including the innocent person) against a dangerous situation, which may have arisen owing to the wrongful conduct of another or the behaviour of an animal, or through natural forces. Two types of emergency situations may be found:\n\n\nA person cannot be at fault if he does not have the capacity to be at fault. In other words, one must have the capacity to be held accountable for one's conduct. This involves two questions:\n\n\nThe enquiry is purely subjective, focusing on the capacity of the specific individual, and is concerned with the mental, not the physical, capacity of a person. A person's capacity may be affected by any number of factors, such as youth, mental illness, intoxication and provocation.\n\nIntention (\"dolus\") concerns the actor's state of mind. One will be held responsible for the intentional results of one's conduct even if it is occasioned by an unintended method (although this is subject, of course, to the presence of the other elements of liability). \"Animus iniuriandi\" is the intention (\"animus\") to injure (\"iniuria\") someone. It is the same as \"dolus\" in criminal law.\n\nThe test for intention is subjective. One must\n\n\nIntention should not be confused with malice or motive. One must distinguish between\n\n\nThere are several defences excluding intent:\n\n\nNegligence (\"culpa\") occurs where there is an inadequate standard of behaviour. It reflects the law's disapproval of the defendant's conduct. The conduct is tested against what the reasonable person in the position of the defendant would have foreseen and what he would have done to avoid the consequences. \"Culpa\" is partly an objective and partly a subjective concept. The reasonable person is placed in the position of the defendant.\n\nAt issue is the law's disapproval of the defendant's conduct, not of his state of mind. To establish negligence, the law sets a standard of conduct (that of the \"diligens paterfamilias\") and then measures the defendant's conduct against it. The test comprises three elements:\n\n\nThe standard was well-articulated in \"Kruger v Coetzee\":\n\nFor the purposes of liability \"culpa\" arises if\n\nConduct is therefore negligent if a reasonable person in the same position as the defendant would have foreseen the possibility of harm, and would have taken steps to avoid it, and if the defendant failed to take such steps.\n\nThe first element of the foreseeability criterion is that the possibility of harm to others must have been reasonably foreseeable: Was there, in other words, a recognisable risk of harm? The concept of reasonable foreseeability is not founded on statistical or mathematical calculations of the extent of the risk, but on a legal evaluation of the risk created in a particular situation. The guidelines for determining reasonable foreseeability were formulated in \"Lomagundi Sheetmetal and Engineering v Basson\":\n\nWhat a prudent man would or would not do, or would or would not foresee in any particular case, must depend on a very wide variety of circumstances and few cases are ever identical in the relevant circumstances. The sort of circumstances, however, which the Courts often look to in cases such as this in deciding what degree of foreseeability must be proved by the plaintiff before a defendant can be held responsible for the resultant damage are these:\n\n\nThe magnitude of the risk created by the defendant (point 1. above) comprises two elements:\n\n\nIf the likelihood of harm is relatively great, or the consequences serious, the possibility of harm will normally be reasonably foreseeable. Where the risk of harm is very small, or the harm not really serious, the reasonable person will not foresee the possibility of harm to others.\n\nOnce it has been established that a reasonable person would have foreseen the possibility of harm, the question arises of whether or not he would have taken measures to prevent the occurrence of the foreseeable harm. There are four basic considerations in each case which influence the reaction of the reasonable person in such situations:\n\n\nIf the magnitude of the risk outweighs the utility of the conduct, the reasonable person would take measures to prevent the occurrence of harm. If the actor fails to take such measures, he acts negligently. If the burden of eliminating a risk of harm outweighs the magnitude of the risk, the reasonable person would not take steps to prevent the occurrence of the foreseeable harm. In some instances, the possibility of harm resulting, even if serious, may be so slight that precautions need not be taken at all.\n\nCausation has two elements: factual and legal.\n\nFor liability to arise, there must be a causal link between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's loss. The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has accepted the \"conditio sine qua non\", or \"but-for\" test, as the one to be applied. A relevant question is whether the defendant's wrongful conduct caused, or materially contributed to, the harm sustained by the plaintiff.\n\nThe SCA has consistently stated that the causation element involves a second aspect, legal causation or remoteness of damage, which is not concerned with causation so much as with restricting the causal effect of the defendant's conduct. Various tests for legal causation have been suggested but the Appellate Division has opted for a flexible umbrella criterion, which determines the closeness of the link according to what is fair and reasonable and just. Here are a few relevant questions:\n\n\nThe primary object of an award for damages is to compensate the person who has suffered harm. In respect of a claim in terms of the Aquilian action, there is only one function: to restore the plaintiff's patrimony and, as far as possible, to place him in the position he would have occupied in had the delict not been committed. Money is considered an adequate replacement for the lost patrimony. Damages under the Aquilian action do not serve to assuage wounded feelings or to compensate for inconvenience or discomfort or annoyance. (Any element of attachment or affection for a damaged article, for example, is excluded.) Where harm admits of exact monetary quantification, the plaintiff must produce sufficient evidence to make an accurate assessment. A court will not make an arbitrary award in the absence of available evidence. Where damages cannot be computed exactly, a court may exercise its own judgment in the matter, provided it has a factual basis for so doing.\n\nLiability for the loss is shared by those who are responsible for it. If the plaintiff's negligent conduct contributes to the loss, that should be considered in determining the extent of the defendant's liability. Contributory negligence is not a defence; it does not extinguish the defendant's liability. It does, however, serve to reduce the damages award.\n\nSimilarly, joint wrongdoers are jointly and severally liable for the loss they have caused. A plaintiff may sue one or all of them. Where an award is made against one joint wrongdoer, he may claim a contribution from the other joint wrongdoers according to the extent of their proportionate fault.\n\nThe Roman-Dutch action for pain and suffering (Afrik \"aksie weens pyn en lyding\"), or action for solatium, developed in the 17th century partly from the Aquilian action, partly from the use of reparative fines (or \"\", \"compositie\") under Dutch customary law. This action may be raised on five essential heads of liability:\n\n\nExcept for harm, the heads of liability for the action for pain and suffering are exactly the same as for the Aquilian action. The claims are usually embodied in one action, and no distinction is drawn between the Aquilian action and the action for pain and suffering.\n\nFor the action to succeed, a claim must be based on physical pain, mental distress, shock, loss of life expectancy, loss of life amenities, inconvenience and discomfort, disability or disfigurement (and the humility and sadness which arise therefrom). The important feature in all of these instances is that the harm must be linked to some bodily injury suffered by the plaintiff. Such loss is non-patrimonial, in that it is intangible and does not impact negatively on the plaintiff's economic or monetary position.\n\nDamages for non-patrimonial loss, or solatium, do not serve a compensatory function, for such loss does not have an economic or pecuniary value. Instead the emphasis is on providing satisfaction or solace to the plaintiff in so far as it is possible for an award of money to do so. The purpose of obtaining solatium is to provide reparation for the wrong; the award does not have a punitive purpose.\n\nFor liability under the \"actio iniuriarum\", the general elements of delict must be present, but specific rules have been developed for each element. Causation, for example, is seldom in issue, and is assumed to be present. The elements of liability under the \"actio iniuriarum\" are as follows:\n\n\nUnder the \"actio iniuriarum\", harm consists in the infringement of a personality right:\n\nInfringements of a person's \"corpus\" include assaults, acts of a sexual or indecent nature, and wrongful arrest and detention.\n\n\"Dignitas\" is a generic term meaning \"worthiness,\" \"dignity\" and \"self respect,\" and comprises related concerns like mental tranquillity and privacy. Because it is such a wide concept, its infringement must be serious. Not every insult is humiliating; one must prove \"contumelia\". This includes insult (\"iniuria\" in the narrow sense), adultery, loss of consortium, alienation of affection, breach of promise (but only in a humiliating or degrading manner), violation of chastity and femininity (as in the cases of peeping toms, sexual suggestions in letters, indecent exposure, seduction, wrongful dismissal of an employee in humiliating terms and unwarranted discrimination on grounds of sex, colour or creed).\n\nInfringement of \"fama\" is the impairment of reputation, better known as defamation.\n\nConduct usually takes the form of statements, either oral or in writing; nevertheless, other forms of conduct, such as physical contact or gestures, could also arise. The principles are the same as those applicable to the Aquilian action.\n\nFault must be in the form of intention. One cannot be held liable for having negligently insulted or defamed another, or for having negligently invaded another's privacy. The intention element is the same as that discussed under the Aquilian action.\n\nAs can be seen from the outline of the essential elements of liability under the \"actio iniuriarum\", causation is not an important issue in this kind of case. It is, for present purposes, always assumed.\n\nAgain, the wrongfulness element is the same as that under the Aquilian action. The test is one of objective reasonableness. One has to determine whether or not the plaintiff's personality right was infringed in an unlawful way and without justification. The applicable defences are different, however.\n\nPrivileged occasion is a defence against wrongfulness and is assessed objectively. The following are examples:\n\n\nFalsity is not essential in defamation cases; the truth, indeed, may be defamatory. Truth is only a defence if publication is also for the public benefit.\n\nOnly material allegations need be substantially true, except if fraud or crime or dishonesty is alleged. Exaggeration is allowed, but not if calculated to convey the wrong impression.\n\nSome advantage must accrue to the public. Publication of true information about public figures is usually for the public benefit. It is not for the public benefit, however, to publish matter which is only partially true, or to rake up the past: A person can reform. Information on \"private people\" may also be for the public benefit.\n\nThe general principle is that a defendant is not liable in damages in respect of the publication of defamatory material if it amounts to fair comment on a matter of public interest. The emphasis is on freedom of speech. Fair comment cannot be wrongful. There are, however, certain requirements:\n\n\nDamages in respect of non-patrimonial loss do not serve a compensatory function, for such loss does not have an economic or pecuniary value. Instead, the emphasis is on providing satisfaction to the plaintiff, in so far as it is possible for an award of money to do so. The purpose of an award under the \"actio iniuriarum\" is to provide solace and assuage wounded feelings. The court exercises its own judgment in the matter and strives to determine awards which will be fair to the plaintiff and the defendant, as well as to the public at large, since such awards also serve to guide future awards.\n\nThe requirements, as set out in \"Delange v Costa\", are as follows:\n\n\nIf the wrongful act is proved, intention is presumed. The defendant can then try to rebut this presumption. If the defendant fails, the plaintiff must prove the impairment of \"dignitas\". Publication is not required, and the defences are the same as for defamation.\n\nInvasion of privacy is \"wrongful and intentional interference with another's right to seclusion.\" It is the wrongful, intentional and serious disturbance of another's right to enjoy personal peace and privacy and tranquillity. Cases often involve clashes between press freedom and public interest on the one hand, and private personal rights on the other. Privacy can be invaded in various ways:\n\n\n\n\nOne's \"fama\", to revise, is one's reputation or good name; it is other peoples' general opinion, the esteem in which one is held by others.\n\nDefamation is the infringement of one's \"fama\": the unlawful and intentional publication of defamatory matter (by words or by conduct) referring to the plaintiff, which causes his reputation to be impaired. No distinction is made between the libellous (written) and the slanderous (spoken) forms of defamation.\n\nThe plaintiff must plead five elements and include a prayer for damages: It must be the (a) wrongful and (b) intentional (c) publication (d) of defamatory material (e) which refers to the plaintiff.\n\nThe plaintiff must prove the infringement of the personality right. Then the court will presume that the infringement was wrongful and intentional (but it is open to the defendant to prove otherwise: rebutting presumptions of wrongfulness and intention, usually by proving a defence).\n\nThe defendant can oppose defamation with a right of opinion, if his opinion is sincere and based on facts (see Freedom of speech in South Africa)\n\nThe test is objective: Would the words tend to lower the plaintiff in the estimation of right-thinking people and members of society generally? The \"mores\" of the society as a whole are relevant in determining whether or not a statement is defamatory. It is possible, however, to consider the \"mores\" of a particular section of the community in some instances.\n\nExamples include\n\n\nThe plaintiff must plead and prove that he is the person defamed. This presents no problem if the plaintiff is named or readily identifiable. The test, again, is objective: Would the ordinary reasonable person hearing or reading the statement understand the matter to refer to the plaintiff?\n\nThe publication of defamatory matter referring to the plaintiff amounts to the invasion of the right. Publication is the element that distinguishes defamation from other \"injuriae\". Someone else must see you in a worse light than before; otherwise your reputation has not been diminished. If publication is not proved, there is no defamation. But an \"injuria\" or an infringement of a right of privacy could still be present.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43989767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43989767", "title": "Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman", "text": "Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman\n\nSun Oil Co. v. Wortman, 486 U.S. 717 (1988), was a conflict of laws case decided by the United States Supreme Court.\n\nThe facts were similar to the case of \"Phillips Petroleum Co. v. Shutts\", also being a class action lawsuit in Kansas for overdue interest payments, with plaintiffs from all fifty U.S. states. Here, as opposed to applying it’s ‘whole law,’ Kansas applies its 5 year statute of limitations instead of the shorter Statutes of Limitations of Louisiana, Texas, or Oklahoma.\n\nDoes the use of Kansas law by the courts of the state of Kansas for all plaintiffs violate Fourteenth Amendment Due Process, or the Full Faith and Credit clause?\n\nThe majority opinion, by Justice Scalia, held that there can never be a violation of Fourteenth Amendment Due Process or Full Faith and Credit if a state interprets as procedural something that has been deemed procedural by states in general for hundreds of years. The rule in question being traditional, this was therefore a permissible practice.\n\nA concurring opinion by Justice Brennan, joined by Justices Marshall and Blackmun, asserted that the Court laid down too broad a rule, and that assertions that something is procedural or substantive should be examined on a case-by-case basis. Where the law is partly procedural and partly substantive, the concurrence argued, the Court must weigh how much of each is implicated. In this case, there was no problem because Kansas is not limiting substantive rights granted by other states by allowing plaintiffs to bring these claims for a longer time, the presumption being that other states enact limitations designed to unburden their own courts.\n\nA dissent by Justice O'Connor, joined by Chief Justice Rehnquist, asserted that the Kansas Supreme Court violated the Full Faith and Credit Clause by ignoring statutory interest rates imposed by three other states. \n\nJustice Kennedy took no part in the case.\n"}
{"id": "37312705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312705", "title": "Test Claimants in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation v IRC", "text": "Test Claimants in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation v IRC\n\nTest Claimants in the Franked Investment Income Group Litigation v IRC [2012] UKSC 19 is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning liability for overpaid tax, and limitation of claims. The Supreme Court made a reference to the European Court of Justice (ECJ).\n\nCompanies in two UK groups, with overseas subsidiaries, claimed restitution of advance corporation tax that was in place from 1973 to 1999, now in section 18 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. It treated dividends received by UK resident companies from non-resident subsidiaries differently to dividends paid and received within wholly UK groups. This was contrary to EU law, specifically TEC art 43 on freedom of establishment and TEC art 56 on free movement of capital, and the ECJ said there had to be an effective remedy. \"Woolwich v IRC\" had established that recovery of unlawfully exacted tax could be made. The test claimant argued that section 32(1)(c) of the Limitation Act 1980 allowed extended periods for bringing actions based on mistake, starting from the date of the discovery, and the only point for discovery was the ECJ judgment on 8 March 2001. They started proceedings on 8 September 2003, and the same day the Revenue announced legislation to disapply section 32(1)(c), which came in as the Finance Act 2004, section 320. Also, when the House of Lords judgment of 2006 confirmed a right to claim tax paid under a mistake, Parliament passed the Finance Act 2007 section 107, which disapplied section 32(1)(c) for proceedings brought before 8 September 2003. They used tax relief to reduce liability to pay tax. The tax was unlawful under EU law. The FII Group claimed the money back. It said it would have used the tax relief to reduce other lawful tax liabilities, if it had not already been used to pay the unlawful tax.\n\nIn the High Court, Henderson J held that a claim under the \"Woolwich\" principle was not an effective remedy, and the EU precluded sections 320 (FA2004) and 107 (FA2007). He used the directness test of causation.\n\nThe Court of Appeal held that the \"Woolwich\" remedy was sufficient and EU did not affect section 320 and 107. LA 1980 s 32(1)(c) did not extend to \"Woolwich\" claims and so claims within the 1970 Act s 33 needed to go before the Special Commissioners, not the High Court. HMRC was not unjustly enriched by a payment to discharge a tax liability because the tax liability must have been due under the statute. Even if HMRC was enriched by the value of the claimant’s forgone tax relief credits, and even if the gain would not have been made but for the claimant’s use of the relief, HMRC did not gain at the FII Group’s expense. That would be too remote a consequence of the FII Group’s earlier use of the reliefs.\n\nThe Supreme Court held that the FII Group could not recover the majority of overpaid money because the extended limitation period for mistake claims was inapplicable, rather than a claim because of an unlawful demand. But it also allowed a reference to the European Court of Justice on the question of further sums. English law did allow recovery of unlawfully demanded taxes after \"Woolwich\". A separate action was for a mistake of law, including tax paid in ignorance of incompatibility with EU law. The Limitation Act 1980 section 32(1)(c) extended limitations for relief of consequences of a mistake, and required that a mistake led to the claim. This did not extend to restitution for unlawfully demanded tax under the \"Woolwich\" principle. The FII Group were claiming under \"Woolwich\" but had not been able to bring their claim in time, subject to statutory relief under the Taxes Management Act 1970 section 33.\n\nTMA s 33 did not expressly exclude other causes of action at common law, and it could not be implied because that would be inconsistent with EU law. Recovery in restitution was not precluded. Any right of restitution was dependent on an additional domestic law right being protected by EU law. A reference was made to the ECJ asking whether section 320 and 107 offended against the principles of effectiveness, legal certainty or legitimate expectations. Specifically the questions were: (1) did EU principles require the benefit of any special advantage in a limitation; and (2) did section 320 offend those principles? It was clear that section 107 did offend the principles, because it cancelled the claims already brought more than three years after legislation was announced precluding recovery, but excluding claims that had already been brought.\n\nThe case could result in the UK government having to pay billions, potentially hundreds of billions, of pounds to corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2496061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2496061", "title": "The George Washington International Law Review", "text": "The George Washington International Law Review\n\nThe George Washington International Law Review is a student-run, student-edited publication of the George Washington University Law School. In its four annual issues, the \"International Law Review\" presents articles and essays on public and private international financial development, comparative law, and public international law. The \"International Law Review\" also publishes the \"Guide to International Legal Research\" annually.\n\nFounded in 1966 as the \"Journal of Law and Economic Development\", the \"International Law Review\" has also published as the \"Journal of International Law and Economics\" and the \"George Washington Journal of International Law and Economics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37413259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37413259", "title": "Third World Approaches to International Law", "text": "Third World Approaches to International Law\n\nThird World Approaches to International Law (TWAIL) is a critical school of international legal scholarship and an intellectual and political movement. It is a \"broad dialectic opposition to international law\", which perceives international law as facilitating the continuing exploitation of the Third World through subordination to the West. TWAIL scholars (known as TWAIL-ers) seek to change what they identify as international law's oppressive aspects, through the re-examination of the colonial foundations of international law.\n\nTWAIL was inspired by the decolonization movements that occurred after World War II in Latin America, Africa and Asia. Symbolically, the conference held in Bandung, Indonesia, in 1955 is seen as the birthplace of TWAIL, as it was the first attempt by African and Asian states to create a coalition to address the issues specific to the Third World. TWAIL came about to address the material and ethical concerns as well as hardships of the Third World.\n\nThe study of TWAIL and its organization originated from a group of Harvard Law School graduate students in 1996. Subsequent to a conference regarding post-colonialism, critical race theory and law and development studies held at Harvard Law School in December 1995, graduate students held a meeting to analyze the viability of creating third world approaches to international law. TWAIL scholars have subsequently held conferences at various universities: \n\nTWAIL’s main objectives include:\n\nThe Third World according to TWAIL-ers, is a group of states, which are politically, economically and culturally diverse, but are simultaneously united in their common history of colonialism. TWAIL emphasizes that even after the end of the Cold War, the Third World is still a political reality. Some TWAIL-ers believe this distinction to be even more alive today, due to the aggregation of diversification of states based on economic development. They underline that the maintenance of the unity of the Third World is crucial in combating the continuing domination of the First World and that the term has no pejorative connotation. The First World is considered to be the group of states engaged in imperial practices and which continue to dominate global politics and economics.\n\nTWAIL reconsiders the history and development of international law and highlights the colonial legacy inherent in it. TWAIL reevaluates the power relationships of the current world order to eradicate the racial hierarchy and oppression present in international law. Although the goal is common, the methods employed to effect those changes vary. Hence, TWAIL is a diverse and ‘coalitionary movement’ - its scholars use different methodologies like Marxism, feminism and critical race theory. Therefore there is no elaborate common TWAIL doctrine, but all TWAIL-ers are nevertheless united in their struggle for the greater involvement of Third World peoples in international law.\n\nTWAIL-ers underline that international law was created during the colonial era and that it was used to legitimize the global processes of marginalization and domination of the colonized people by Western powers. They refuse to accept the universal character of the international legal system, as it emerged solely from the European and Christian tradition. In contrast, Third World countries were assimilated by force into the international legal system, which does not reflect their diverse heritage. TWAIL-ers reject the idea that after the end of the World War II international law has moved on from its imperialistic origins. Although the system appears to be legitimized by recognizing human rights and the right to self-determination, TWAIL-ers believe that international law is still a tool of oppression and that decolonization processes were merely illusory. Amongst the modern forms of domination, TWAIL-ers include:\n\n\nTWAIL-ers also emphasize the inability of Third World leaders to secure the interests of their people and their failed opposition to the First World hegemony, which further hinders the struggle for liberation of Third World peoples . However, TWAIL highlights that some concepts in international law simultaneously serve as both an instrument of oppression and emancipation – like the international human rights regime, which not only justifies the internationalization of property rights but also the protection peoples’ freedoms . Hence TWAIL-ers recognize that some elements of the system need to be preserved.\n\nTWAIL is not a uniform school of thought and TWAIL-ers do not take a unanimous stance. Some of them are more reconstructionist while others are more oppositional in their approach. Nevertheless, the scholars, in a decentralized network, share a common concern for the Third World. Some of them teach TWAIL courses at various universities around the world.\n\n\n\nTWAIL-ers are sometimes accused of having a nihilistic approach. David P. Fidler and Jose Alvarez criticize TWAIL for offering no positive agenda for action or reform in international law and relations. Alvarez uses the example of the genocide in Sudan and TWAIL-ers’ refusal to subscribe to the lobbying of the Security Council to take desired action in the case. Alvarez’s own work contains many TWAIL-like themes and he has often been just as critical of certain liberal approaches to international law as TWAIL scholarship has been. Post-structuralist critiques of TWAIL assert that the argumentative logic of TWAIL ultimately operates according to the very conservative analytical framework it sets out to transcend.\n\nThere are First World scholars who reject Third World scholarship, which, in the view of TWAIL-ers, reflects TWAIL’s growing impact on the debate on international law. Notwithstanding, TWAIL-ers continue to make, what they perceive as necessary critique and essential reform proposals to promote justice, equality and egalitarian values in international law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7759701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7759701", "title": "Tulane Maritime Law Journal", "text": "Tulane Maritime Law Journal\n\nThe Tulane Maritime Law Journal is the preeminent student-edited law journal in the field of Admiralty and Maritime Law. Published semi-annually, each issue of the Journal includes scholarly works written by academics, practitioners, and students concerning current topics in Admiralty and Maritime Law. In addition, the Journal publishes an annual section on Recent Developments in Admiralty and Maritime Law for the United States and the international community, as well as periodic symposia on relevant topical areas in the field and quantum, collision, and forum selection clause surveys every other year.\n\nThe Tulane Maritime Law Journal launched a new website on August 28, 2013.\n\nThe Journal has been cited by the U.S. Supreme Court many times—most recently, in 2010. The Court also cited the Journal in 2009, when it relied, in part, on an article by New York maritime attorney Paul S. Edelman (\"Guevara v. Maritime Overseas Corp.\", 20 Tul. Mar. L. J. 349 (1996)).\n\nThe Tulane Maritime Law Journal was founded in 1973 in conjunction with the student-run Tulane Maritime Law Society. The first issue of the Journal was released in March 1975 as The Maritime Lawyer. The next few years were formative and interesting times for the Journal, a history that is retraced in the 20th Anniversary issue (Volume 20, Issue 1). In the fall of 1977, the Journal established its independence from the Tulane Maritime Law Society. Since that fall, the Journal has been published every winter and summer. Starting with Volume 12, in 1987, the publication changed its name from The Maritime Lawyer to the Tulane Maritime Law Journal. The name change was to better reflect the Journal’s status as a student-edited law journal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198432", "title": "Ultimatum", "text": "Ultimatum\n\nAn ultimatum () is a demand whose fulfillment is requested in a specified period of time and which is backed up by a threat to be followed through in case of noncompliance (open loop). An ultimatum is generally the final demand in a series of requests. As such, the time allotted is usually short, and the request is understood not to be open to further negotiation. The threat which backs up the ultimatum can vary depending on the demand in question and on the other circumstances.\n\nThe word is used in diplomacy to signify the final terms submitted by one of the parties in negotiation for settlement of any subject of disagreement. It is accompanied by an intimation as to how refusal will be regarded. English diplomacy has devised the adroit reservation that refusal will be regarded as an \"unfriendly act\", a phrase which serves as a warning that the consequences of the rupture of negotiations will be considered from the point of view of forcing a settlement. This opens up a variety of possibilities, such as good offices, mediation, the appointment of a commission of inquiry, arbitration, reprisals, pacific blockade and war.\n\nUnlike the circumstances of an ultimatum, the scenario of deterrence is not bound by specific constraints of time, place, or action, and though a threat may be present, there is no formal guarantee of it being acted out. The scenario of nuclear deterrence (particularly the United States and the Soviet Union in the Cold War) is a good example of this concept: while both nations maintained a sizeable stockpile of nuclear weapons aimed at each other, the intent was to prevent open conflict (closed loop), and that no formal condition for initiating conflict was ever established, except in retaliation for the other side initiating an attack. In an ultimatum situation, either nation would threaten the use of nuclear weapons if certain demands/constraints were not met independent of that retaliatory capability that would have a fixed point of no return—compliance or warfare.\n\nAn ultimatum may also serve to provide legitimacy for military action.\n\nThe Hague Convention relative to the Opening of Hostilities of 18 October 1907, provides as follows:\n\nAs reasons for a declaration of war are necessarily in the nature of an ultimatum, the ultimatum may now be regarded as an indispensable formality precedent to the outbreak of hostilities.\n\nAnother Hague convention of the same date respecting the limitation of the employment of force for the recovery of contract debts provides as follows:\n\nThis undertaking, however, is not applicable when the debtor state refuses or neglects to reply to an offer of arbitration or, \"after accepting the offer, renders the settlement of the compromis impossible, or, after the arbitration, fails to comply with the award.\"\n\nUnder this convention, in the cases to which it relates, the alternative of the ultimatum is ipso facto arbitration, and it is only when the conditions of the convention have been set at naught that other measures may be employed.\n\nThe United Nations Charter prohibits not only the use of force but also the threat of such use of force, but there is discussion on whether this prohibition applies only to (militarily) credible threats, whether (or when) the threat of the use of force in self-defence is permitted, and what actions (not necessarily accompanied by a verbal threat) can be considered a threat. \nThe International Court of Justice has provided guidance on the legality of the use of threats: generally, if the use of force would be lawful, the threat of such use of force is also legal, and if the actual use of force is later found lawful, then the prior threat is also deemed lawful.\n\nThe actor that presents the other side with an ultimatum should be prepared to make good on the threat, for instance, initiate military action, if the other side does not comply with its demands. \nThere are dangers if the threatened actor decides not to comply. On the one hand, if the actor presenting the ultimatum is not willing to go through with the threatened action, the other actor may \"call their bluff\" presenting a choice between a humiliating climb-down and an unwanted result (such as war). \nOn the other hand, the opponent may take the ultimatum seriously and take pre-emptive action.\nThe ultimatum may encourage the opponent to remain firm so as not to be seen as weak.\n\nOne danger here is that the opponent may profess to accept the ultimatum, possibly with conditions, thus weakening the credibility of the issuer of the ultimatum.\n\nAnother danger is that the issuer may keep negotiating with the opponent when the requested period of time ends, thus making the issuer look like a laughable fool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11406701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11406701", "title": "United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division", "text": "United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division\n\nThe United States Department of Justice Antitrust Division is a law enforcement agency responsible for enforcing the antitrust laws of the United States. It shares jurisdiction over civil antitrust cases with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and often works jointly with the FTC to provide regulatory guidance to businesses. However, the Antitrust Division also has the power to file criminal cases against willful violators of the antitrust laws. The Antitrust Division also works with competition regulators in other countries.\n\nThe head of the Antitrust Division is an Assistant Attorney General for Antitrust (AAG-AT) appointed by the President of the United States. The current Assistant Attorney General is Makan Delrahim.\n\nOn February 25, 1903, Congress earmarked $500,000 for antitrust enforcement. On March 3, 1903, Congress created the position of Antitrust AG, with a salary to be paid out of the funds earmarked for antitrust enforcement. The 1904 DOJ \"Register\" identified two professional staffers responsible for enforcement of antitrust laws, but it wasn't until 1919 that the Division was formally established. AG A. Mitchell Palmer “effected the first important reorganization\" of DOJ since it was first established in 1870. Palmer organized DOJ into divisions, and placed the AtAG “in charge of the Anti-Trust Division.” Palmer's annual report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1919 contained the first public statement that DOJ had a component called the \"The Antitrust Division.\" \n\nThe Antitrust Division is overseen by an Assistant Attorney General. The Assistant Attorney General is assisted by six Deputy Assistant Attorneys General (DAAG) who each oversee a different branch of the Division. One of the DAAGs holds the position of \"Principal Deputy,\" that is \"first among equals,\" and \"will typically assume the powers of the Assistant Attorney General in the Assistant Attorney General’s absence.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe closure of four of the Antitrust Division's criminal antitrust offices in January 2013 generated significant controversy within the Division and among members of Congress. The Attorney General posited that the closure of these offices will save money and not negatively affect criminal enforcement. A significant number of career prosecutors have voiced contrary opinions, noting that the elimination of half of the Division's criminal enforcement offices will increase travel expenses and diminish the likelihood of uncovering local or regional conspiracies.\n\n"}
{"id": "33493849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33493849", "title": "Vampire Prosecutor", "text": "Vampire Prosecutor\n\nVampire Prosecutor () is a South Korean television series, starring Yeon Jung-hoon, Lee Won-jong, Lee Young-ah and Kim Joo-young. The crime procedural drama tells the story of a prosecutor who hides his identity of being a vampire and solves crimes with his special powers.\n\nThe first season aired on cable channel OCN from October 2 to December 18, 2011 on Sundays at 23:00 for 12 episodes.\n\nThe second season aired on OCN from September 9 to November 18, 2012 on Sundays at 23:00 for 11 episodes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn its first season, the series topped its time-slot for 11 consecutive weeks, and recorded a peak viewership rating of 4.3%, the highest for a Korean cable drama in 2011.\n\nIt was exported to several foreign countries, including Japan, where it aired on cable channel BS-TBS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30874917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874917", "title": "Vauban, Freiburg", "text": "Vauban, Freiburg\n\nVauban is a neighbourhood to the south of the town centre in Freiburg, Germany. It was built as \"a sustainable model district\" on the site of a former French military base named after Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban, the 17th century French Marshal who built fortifications in Freiburg while the region was under French rule. Construction began in 1998. In the year 2001 the first 2000 residents moved in.\n\nAll houses are built to a low-energy consumption standard, with 100 units designed to the \"Passivhaus\" ultra-low energy building standard. Other buildings are heated by a combined heat and power station burning wood chips, while many of the buildings have solar collectors or photovoltaic cells. Perhaps the best example of sustainable building is the Solar Settlement in Vauban, a 59 PlusEnergy home housing community. It is the first housing community worldwide in which all the homes produce a positive energy balance. The solar energy surplus is then sold back into the city's grid for a profit on every home.\n\nWithin Vauban, transport is primarily by foot or bicycle. The development is connected to Freiburg city centre by a tramway and is laid out linearly along the tracks, such that all homes are within easy walking distance from a tram stop. As of 2009, around 70% of the households had chosen to live without a private car. The level of car ownership has fallen over time. \n\nBoth this and an earlier study found that cycling was the main mode of transport for most trips and most activities, including commuting and shopping.\nThe preference for walking and cycling can be partly attributed to the layout of the district. Building on previous experience, the plan departs from the simple inherited grid and creates a network, which incorporates the principle of “filtered permeability”. It means that the network geometry favours the active modes of transport and, selectively, “filters out” the car. This is accomplished by reducing the number of streets that run through the neighbourhood. Instead, most local streets are crescents and cul-de-sacs (see drawing). While they are discontinuous for cars, they connect to a network of pedestrian and bike paths, which permeate the entire neighbourhood. In addition, these paths go through or past open spaces, adding to the enjoyment of the trip. The logic of filtering a mode of transport is fully expressed in a new comprehensive model for laying out neighbourhoods and districts – the Fused Grid.\n\nMost of Vauban's residential streets are described as \"stellplatzfrei\" – literally \"free from parking spaces\". Vehicles are allowed down these streets at walking pace to pick up and deliver but not to park, although there are some infractions as the system depends essentially on social consensus – there are few official controls. Each year, households are required to sign a declaration stating either that they do not own a car, or that they do, in which case they must buy a space in one of the multi-storey car parks on the periphery, at a one-off cost of €17,500 plus a monthly service fee (in 2006). The citywide car sharing club has the greatest concentration of its 2,500 members in Vauban – at least ten of its cars are stationed around the district.\n\nThe site was originally developed as a military base in 1936 and was taken over after World War II by the French forces occupying the region. The military left in 1992. Over a period of some years the vacant structures were occupied by various tribes of hippies and anarchists. Following battles with the city government, squatters won the rights to four of the original twenty barracks. At the same time a group called \"Forum Vauban\" was pressing the City Council to develop the site in an eco-friendly way. The remaining 38 hectares were acquired by Freiburg City Council, who delegated the mandatory community consultation to Forum Vauban. This collaboration between the Council and Forum Vauban led to the masterplan with its car-free concept.\n\nMost of the individual plots were sold to \"Baugruppen\" (co-housing groups) whose bids were assessed against criteria favouring families with children, older people and Freiburg residents. Some Baugruppen were formed by architects, others by prospective residents planning varying elements of self-build. Some of the other plots were sold to private developers.\n\nAnother part of the site was developed for student dormitories for the University of Freiburg. Some former occupants of these structures have taken up residence in a diverse assortment of cars, vans, and retired civil service vehicles, forming what has been named Wagenplatz.\n\nMore \"alternative\" projects have, among other things, converted old barracks at a low cost, such as S.U.S.I., a self-governing independent residential initiative that, through an alternative living concept, developed living spaces for students as well as subsidized housing. A self-governing \"Community Centre Building 037\" () has been established in one of the preserved barracks. Some former barracks were occupied in early 2005, as they would have been demolished.\n\nVauban has 5,500 residents as of 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35956026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35956026", "title": "Wikipedia Zero", "text": "Wikipedia Zero\n\nWikipedia Zero is a project by the Wikimedia Foundation to provide Wikipedia free of charge on mobile phones via zero-rating, particularly in developing markets. The objective of the program was to increase access to free knowledge, in particular without data-usage cost. With 97 operators in over 72 countries, it is estimated that access to Wikipedia was provided to more than 800 million people through this program. The Wikipedia Zero program will end in 2018.\n\nThe program was launched in 2012, and won a 2013 South by Southwest Interactive Award for activism. After having received criticism over the years for violating the principle of net neutrality, in February 2018 the Wikimedia Foundation announced the end of the initiative, stating that it would take a new approach on partnerships.\n\nFacebook Zero has been cited as an inspiration for Wikipedia Zero.\n\nBelow is a selective history of launches. For a complete list of participating mobile networks and launch dates, see .\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation announced on February 16, 2018, that the Wikipedia Zero program would be phased out and terminated by the end of 2018.\n\nThe \"Subsecretaria de Telecomunicaciones\" of Chile ruled that zero-rating services like Wikipedia Zero, Facebook Zero, and Google Free Zone, that subsidize mobile data usage, violate net neutrality laws and had to end the practice by June 1, 2014. The Electronic Frontier Foundation has said, \"Whilst we appreciate the intent behind efforts such as Wikipedia Zero, ultimately zero rated services are a dangerous compromise.\" Accessnow.org has been more critical, saying, \"Wikimedia has always been a champion for open access to information, but it’s crucial to call out zero-rating programs for what they are: Myopic deals that do great damage to the future of the open internet\". The Wikimedia Foundation's Gayle Karen Young defended the program to \"The Washington Post\", saying, \"We have a complicated relationship to net neutrality. We believe in net neutrality in America\", while adding that Wikipedia Zero required a different perspective in other countries: \"Partnering with telecom companies in the near term, it blurs the net neutrality line in those areas. It fulfills our overall mission, though, which is providing free knowledge\".\n\nHilary Heuler argues that \"for many, zero-rated programs would limit online access to the 'walled gardens' offered by the web heavyweights. For millions of users, Facebook and Wikipedia would be synonymous with 'internet'.\" In 2015, researchers evaluating how the similar program Facebook Zero shapes information and communications technology use in the developing world found that 11% of Indonesians who said they used Facebook also said they did not use the Internet. 65% of Nigerians, and 61% of Indonesians agree with the statement that \"Facebook is the Internet\" compared with only 5% in the United States.\n\nAn article in \"Vice\" magazine notes that the free access via Wikipedia Zero made Wikipedia a preferred way for its users in Bangladesh and elsewhere to share copyrighted material. This caused problems at Wikipedia (where uploading copyrighted media is discouraged) but the article is deeply critical of the Wikipedia Zero project, arguing that because \"they can't afford access to YouTube and the rest of the internet, Wikipedia has become the internet for lots of Bangladeshis [and] a bunch of more-or-less random editors who happen to want to be the piracy police are dictating the means of access for an entire population of people.\"\n\n\n"}
