{"id": "237253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237253", "title": "Albert Bandura", "text": "Albert Bandura\n\nAlbert Bandura (; born December 4, 1925) is a Canadian-American psychologist who is the David Starr Jordan Professor Emeritus of Social Science in Psychology at Stanford University.\n\nBandura has been responsible for contributions to the field of education and to several fields of psychology, including social cognitive theory, therapy, and personality psychology, and was also of influence in the transition between behaviorism and cognitive psychology. He is known as the originator of social learning theory (renamed the social cognitive theory) and the theoretical construct of self-efficacy, and is also responsible for the influential 1961 Bobo doll experiment. This Bobo doll experiment demonstrated the concept of observational learning.\n\nSocial cognitive theory is how people learn through observing others. An example of social cognitive theory would be the students imitating the teacher. Self-efficacy is \"the belief in one's capabilities to organize and execute the courses of action required to manage prospective situations.\" To paraphrase, self-efficacy is believing in yourself to take action. The Bobo Doll Experiment was how Albert Bandura studied aggression and non-aggression in children.\n\nA 2002 survey ranked Bandura as the fourth most-frequently cited psychologist of all time, behind B. F. Skinner, Sigmund Freud, and Jean Piaget, and as the most cited living one. Bandura is widely described as the greatest living psychologist, and as one of the most influential psychologists of all time.\n\nIn 1974 Bandura was elected to be the Eighty-Second President of the American Psychological Association (APA). He was one of the youngest president-elects in the history of the APA at the age of 48. Bandura served as a member of the APA Board of Scientific Affairs from 1968 to 1970 and is well known as a member of the editorial board of nine psychology journals including the \"Journal of Personality and Social Psychology\" from 1963 to 1972. At the age of 82, Bandura was awarded the Grawemeyer Award for psychology.\n\nBandura was born in Mundare, in Alberta, an open town of roughly four hundred inhabitants, as the youngest child, and only son, in a family of six. The limitations of education in a remote town such as this caused Bandura to become independent and self-motivated in terms of learning, and these primarily developed traits proved very helpful in his lengthy career. Bandura is of Polish and Ukrainian descent; his father was from Krakow, Poland whilst his mother was from Ukraine.\n\nBandura's parents were a key influence in encouraging him to seek ventures out of the small hamlet they resided in. The summer after finishing high school, Bandura worked in the Yukon to protect the Alaska Highway against sinking. Bandura later credited his work in the northern tundra as the origin of his interest in human psychopathology. It was in this experience in the Yukon, where he was exposed to a subculture of drinking and gambling, which helped broaden his perspective and scope of views on life.\n\nBandura arrived in the US in 1949 and was naturalized in 1956. He married Virginia Varns (1921–2011) in 1952, and they raised two daughters, Carol and Mary.\n\nBandura's introduction to academic psychology came about by a fluke; as a student with little to do in the early mornings, he took a psychology course to pass the time, and became enamored of the subject. Bandura graduated in three years, in 1949, with a B.A. from the University of British Columbia, winning the Bolocan Award in psychology, and then moved to the then-epicenter of theoretical psychology, the University of Iowa, from where he obtained his M.A. in 1951 and Ph.D. in 1952. Arthur Benton was his academic adviser at Iowa, giving Bandura a direct academic descent from William James, while Clark Hull and Kenneth Spence were influential collaborators. During his Iowa years, Bandura came to support a style of psychology which sought to investigate psychological phenomena through repeatable, experimental testing. His inclusion of such mental phenomena as imagery and representation, and his concept of reciprocal determinism, which postulated a relationship of mutual influence between an agent and its environment, marked a radical departure from the dominant behaviorism of the time. Bandura's expanded array of conceptual tools allowed for more potent modeling of such phenomena as observational learning and self-regulation, and provided psychologists with a practical way in which to theorize about mental processes, in opposition to the mentalistic constructs of psychoanalysis and personology. When a psychologist such as Bandura invokes the self construct to explain human emotion, thought, and behavior, he or she is using exactly the same type of \"mentalistic\" constructs utilized by the psychodynamic theorists. \n\nUpon graduation, he completed his postdoctoral internship at the Wichita Guidance Center. The following year, 1953, he accepted a teaching position at Stanford University, which he holds to this day. In 1974, he was elected president of the American Psychological Association (APA), which is the world's largest association of psychologists. Bandura would later state the only reason he agreed to be in the running for the APA election was because he wanted his 15 minutes of fame without any intentions of being elected. He also worked as a sports coach.\n\nBandura was initially influenced by Robert Sears' work on familial antecedents of social behavior and identificatory learning. He directed his initial research to the role of social modeling in human motivation, thought, and action. In collaboration with Richard Walters, his first doctoral student, he engaged in studies of social learning and aggression. Their joint efforts illustrated the critical role of modeling in human behavior and led to a program of research into the determinants and mechanisms of observational learning.\n\nThe initial phase of Bandura's research analyzed the foundations of human learning and the willingness of children and adults to imitate behavior observed in others, in particular, aggression.\n\nHe found that according to Social Learning theory, models are an important source for learning new behaviors and for achieving behavioral change in institutionalized settings.\n\nSocial learning theory posits that there are three regulatory systems that control behavior. First, the antecedent inducements greatly influence the time and response of behavior. The stimulus that occurs before the behavioral response must be appropriate in relationship to social context and performers. Second, response feedback influences also serve an important function. Following a response, the reinforcements, by experience or observation, will greatly impact the occurrence of the behavior in the future. Third, the importance of cognitive functions in social learning. For example, for aggressive behavior to occur some people become easily angered by the sight or thought of individuals with whom they have had hostile encounters, and this memory is acquired through the learning process.\n\nHis research with Walters led to his first book, \"Adolescent Aggression\" in 1959, and to a subsequent book, \"Aggression: A Social Learning Analysis\" in 1973. During a period dominated by behaviorism in the mold of B.F. Skinner, Bandura believed the sole behavioral modifiers of reward and punishment in classical and operant conditioning were inadequate as a framework, and that many human behaviors were learned from other humans. Bandura began to analyze means of treating unduly aggressive children by identifying sources of violence in their lives. Initial research in the area had begun in the 1940s under Neal Miller and John Dollard; his continued work in this line eventually culminated in the Bobo doll experiment, and in 1977's hugely influential treatise, \"Social Learning Theory\". Many of his innovations came from his focus on empirical investigation and reproducible investigation, which were alien to a field of psychology dominated by the theories of Freud.\n\nIn 1961 Bandura conducted a controversial experiment known as the Bobo doll experiment, designed to show that similar behaviors were learned by individuals shaping their own behavior after the actions of models. Bandura's results from this experiment changed the course of modern psychology, and were widely credited for helping shift the focus in academic psychology from pure behaviorism to cognitive psychology. Moreover, the Bobo doll experiment emphasized how young individuals are influenced by the acts of adults. When the adults were praised for their aggressive behavior, the children were more likely to keep on hitting the doll. However, when the adults were punished, they consequently stopped hitting the doll as well. The experiment is among the most lauded and celebrated of psychological experiments.\n\nBy the mid-1980s, Bandura's research had taken a more holistic bent, and his analyses tended towards giving a more comprehensive overview of human cognition in the context of social learning. The theory he expanded from social learning theory soon became known as social cognitive theory.\n\nIn 1986, Bandura published \"Social Foundations of Thought and Action: A Social Cognitive Theory\" (see article), in which he re-conceptualized individuals as self-organizing, proactive, self-reflecting, and self-regulating, in opposition to the orthodox conception of humans as governed by external forces. He advanced concepts of triadic reciprocality, which determined the connections between human behavior, environmental factors, and personal factors such as cognitive, affective, and biological events, and of reciprocal determinism, governing the causal relations between such factors. Bandura's emphasis on the capacity of agents to self-organize and self-regulate would eventually give rise to his later work on self-efficacy.\n\nIn 1963, he published \"Social Learning and Personality Development.\" In 1974, Stanford University awarded him an endowed chair and he became David Starr Jordan Professor of Social Science in Psychology. In 1977, he published \"Social Learning Theory\", a book that altered the direction psychology took in the 1980s.\nWhile investigating the processes by which modeling alleviates phobic disorders in snake-phobics, he found that self-efficacy beliefs (which the phobic individuals had in their own capabilities to alleviate their phobia) mediated changes in behavior and in fear-arousal. He launched a major program of research examining the influential role of self-referent thought in psychological functioning. Although he continued to explore and write on theoretical problems relating to myriad topics, from the late 1970s he devoted much attention to exploring the role of self-efficacy beliefs in human functioning.\n\nIn fact, in 2004 Bandura, in conjunction with Charles Benight, found that utilizing the same self-efficacy based beliefs that were implemented for his phobia studies produced similar results on people who suffered from severe debilitating trauma. It was not only found useful for the trauma suffered by natural disaster survivors, but also those returning veterans that suffer post-traumatic stress disorder that include pervasive hyper-vigilance and recurrent flashbacks. By establishing a perceived sense of control (self-efficacy) over their traumatic experience (cognitively or physically) the veterans and hurricane survivors were able to overcome their distress and trauma and move forward.\n\nIn 1986 he published \"Social Foundations of Thought and Action: A Social Cognitive Theory\", a book in which he offered a social cognitive theory of human functioning that accords a central role to cognitive, vicarious, self-regulatory and self-reflective processes in human adaptation and change. This theory has its roots in an agentic perspective that views people as self-organizing, proactive, self-reflecting and self-regulating, not just as reactive organisms shaped by environmental forces or driven by inner impulses. His book, \"\" was published in 1997.\n\nIn addition to Bandura's work on self-efficacy in relation to phobias and trauma, he also contributed, in 2008 with Caprara and colleagues, a significant amount to the study of self-efficacy in the education system. His focus was on the continuing technological explosion, in that with more information readily available than ever before the education system needs to focus on teaching students self-regulating efficacy. He argued that self-regulating efficacy is the focus on bolstering students belief that they can not only stay up to date with current technology, but also avoid becoming overwhelmed with its continual shift. He stated that this will be invaluable as jobs focus more on cognitive abilities as well as flexibility in light of technologies ever-changing use and applicability.\n\nBandura applied his human agentic view via social cognitive theory for the personal and social aspects of control over moral values and conduct. In particular, he states that in the social cognitive theory of the moral self, moral reasoning is linked to moral action through affective self-regulatory mechanisms by which moral agency is exercised. However these self-regulatory mechanisms have to be activated psychosocially. Bandura found interest in the role that human agency plays when a society does not have safeguards set against particular lapses in moral judgment that an individual finds justification, morally or otherwise.\n\nFirst, all people are capable of two morally agentic abilities, to act humanely and to act inhumanely. Selective moral disengagement occurs when a person actively disengages their self-regulating efficacy for moral conduct.\n\nSelective moral disengagement occurs via a \"cognitive restructuring\" of the inhumane acts into something justifiable. He states the specific processes in which this occurs, they are as follows: moral justification, sanitizing language, exonerative social comparison, disavowal of personal agency in the harm one causes by diffusion or displacement of responsibility, disregarding or minimizing the injurious effects of one's actions, and attribution of blame to/dehumanization of those who are victimized.\n\nBandura's social learning theory contributes to students and teachers within the field of education. In 1986, Bandura changed the name of the social learning theory to social cognitive theory. The social cognitive theory still focuses on how behavior and growth are affected by the cognitive operations that occur during social activities. The key theoretical components of the social cognitive theory that are applied in education are self-efficacy, self-regulation, observational learning, and reciprocal determinism.\n\nThe social cognitive theory can be applied to motivation and learning for students and teachers. Bandura's research shows that high perceived self-efficacy leads teachers and students to set higher goals and increases the likelihood that they will dedicate themselves to those goals. In an educational setting self-efficacy refers to a student or teacher's confidence to participate in certain actions that will help them achieve distinct goals. Self-regulation is the process by which an individual sets future goals and manages their behavior and plans to accomplish them. It operates under individual everyday classroom functions such as goal setting, self-monitoring, and self-influence. The social cognitive theory research offers support that modeling can be useful for incorporating new strategies into training for teachers. According to Bandura's observational learning theory, students acquire self-regulative functions from observing models. Observational learning occurs when students or teachers observe a well-trained model and experience increases in their knowledge and understanding. Lastly, the mutual relationship between a student or teacher, their environment, and their behavior is pointed out as key components in Bandura's triadic reciprocal determinism theory. The mutual relationships within reciprocal determinism point out what influences behavior and the results that will affect future thoughts. In other words, when a student or teacher decides to replicate an observed behavior, that student or teacher's self-efficacy provides them with the confidence to attempt to perform the observed behavior. Self-regulation is the process he or she will use to set goals to perform the observed behavior. If the performed behavior leads to successful results, it will encourage them to perform similar behaviors again and validate their use of high self-efficacy.\n\nBandura has received more than sixteen honorary degrees, including those from the University of British Columbia, the University of Ottawa, Alfred University, the University of Rome, the University of Lethbridge, the University of Salamanca in Spain, Indiana University, the University of New Brunswick, Penn State University, Leiden University, and Freie Universität Berlin, the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, Universitat Jaume I in Spain, the University of Athens and the University of Alberta, and University of Catania.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1980. He received the Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions from the American Psychological Association in 1980 for pioneering the research in the field of self-regulated learning. In 1999 he received the Thorndike Award for Distinguished Contributions of Psychology to Education from the American Psychological Association, and in 2001, he received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for the Advancement of Behavior Therapy. He is the recipient of the Outstanding Lifetime Contribution to Psychology Award from the American Psychological Association and the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Western Psychological Association, the James McKeen Cattell Award from the American Psychological Society, and the Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Lifetime Contribution to Psychological Science from the American Psychological Foundation. In 2008, he received the University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award for contributions to psychology.\n\nIn 2014, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada \"for his foundational contributions to social psychology, notably for uncovering the influence of observation on human learning and aggression\".\n\nThe following books have more than 5,000 citations in Google Scholar:\n\nHis other books are\n\n"}
{"id": "12422127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12422127", "title": "Alfred Beit School", "text": "Alfred Beit School\n\nAlfred Beit School is a primary school in the suburb of Mabelreign in Harare Zimbabwe. The school was named after Alfred Beit. The school offers education from the ECD grade all the way up to grade 7. Alfred Beit has a house system which is mainly used for sports. There are four houses, which are sable, eland, roan and kudu. \n\nCatherine Russell (O'Hare)\n"}
{"id": "11564313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11564313", "title": "Anthony Apesos", "text": "Anthony Apesos\n\nAnthony Apesos (born 1953) is an American painter and professor of Fine Arts at the Art Institute of Boston at Lesley University.\n\nApesos was born on 6 January 1953 in Newark, New Jersey, the son of John and Helen Apesos. Later that year, his family returned to Philadelphia, where his parents were restaurateurs. Apesos attended The Episcopal Academy from 1965 to 1972, after which he received his A.B. at Vassar College in Religion. Apesos studied painting under Morris Blackburn, Arthur de Costa, Ben Kamahira, and Sidney Goodman at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts from 1975 to 1979, and received a M.F.A. in 1991 from the Milton Avery Graduate School of the Arts at Bard College. In 1992, Apesos moved to Boston, and became chair of the Fine Arts department at the Art Institute of Boston (now part of Lesley University). Apesos founded AIB's M.F.A. program, and currently is professor of Fine Arts.\n\nApesos's painting, while indebted to the American realist tradition, is informed by a fascination with mythology and archetypical themes; in this respect, his work exhibits striking parallels with the visual art of the Romantic poet and artist William Blake. Technically, Apesos draws upon the traditions of late Renaissance painting, in particular that of the Venetian masters; his work is characterized by the employment of opalescent scumbles (translucent layers of pigment placed over solid colors to produce effects of depth and texture for the viewer), and inventive, often unsettling modes of composition in which figures and background are juxtaposed in simultaneously traditional and unfamiliar ways.\n\n\"Snow and Milk\": here, the binary opposition of white and black, cold and hot, is juxtaposed against the traditional artistic figure of the female nude, providing a symbolic matrix within which to consider the way that Western art has objectified as well as celebrated femininity and the body in general.\n\n\"Recipe\": composed with a fundamental palette of red, black, and white, and evoking both ancient pictorial traditions (the unveiling of the Vestal Virgin) as well as archetypal symbolism (earth and water, dark and light) to reflect upon the fundamental and yet mysterious nature of human reproduction, focused here upon the powerful and compositionally-central figure of the mother.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3282007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3282007", "title": "Autonomous research robot", "text": "Autonomous research robot\n\nThe Denning Mobile Robot Company of Boston was the first company to offer ready-made autonomous robots that were subsequently purchased primarily by researchers. Grinnell More's Real World Interface, Inc. (RWI) and James Slater's Nomadic Technologies (US), along with Francesco Mondada's K-Team (Switzerland), were other pioneering companies in this field, addressing the need for ready-made robots for use by robotics researchers. RWI created the B-21, Nomadic the XR4000, whilst the tiny Khepera mobile robot emerged from the stables of the Swiss K-Team. However, the high price of these machines meant that only a few graduate students and military researchers could afford them. Eventually, the low-cost Pioneer robot was introduced in 1995 (from a collaboration between RWI and ActivMedia Robotics), a project that expanded research in mobile robotics due to the affordable price.\n\nBy 1999, the Denning company was defunct. In 1998, RWI joined with ISRobotics to form iRobot. More introduced the PackBot remote control robot, veering away from autonomous research robots to pursue military markets. Nomadic Technologies also left the field. MobileRobots Inc and K-Team continued to supply the research community.\n\nIn 2003 the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) contracted with Segway to convert fifteen Segway PTs into Segway Robotic Mobility Platforms. Segway and delivered units to DARPA in April. In June DARPA worked with SPAWAR Systems Center San Diego to distribute the units to 14 government and university research institutions.\n\nResearch robots improved in autonomous indoor operation during the 1990s and the 2000s. Ready-made research bases offer the necessary sensing, mobility and computational power. These include the Pioneer, PatrolBot, PowerBot, and PeopleBot. These platforms can map buildings and navigate out-of-the-box, using SLAM and a variation on Monte Carlo method/Markov localization and modified value-iterated search, with any sensor of the 2-D range-finder class. This method creates a human readable map of the robot's workspace that can control and track robots as they move. Evolution Robotics offers single-camera VSLAM software, which replaces range-finding with visual pattern-matching, but this system cannot create a human-readable map. Other groups are building stereocam-based VSLAM. Because the stereo camera provides range-finding data, maps can be made and robots tracked. The K-Team Khepera, Segway-based platforms and other research robots can link to external computing resources to use such software.\n\nPrecision depends upon sensor precision, data granularity and calculation speed. Range-finding lasers may have +/-1 cm accuracy while digital stereo camera accuracy is limited to .25 pixel and thus is range-dependent. Vision-based systems require more computational resources than simple range-finding systems such as lasers, but may employ a digital signal processor embedded with the camera. Cost/precision trade-offs led to less expensive vision-based systems on consumer robots while commercial and industrial robots and automated guided vehicles (AGVs) tend to use laser-based systems.\n\nOutdoors, localization is primarily handled with GPS, however, satellite signals can frequently be lost due to obstructions. Without a robots typically use dead reckoning and inertial motion tracking. Dead reckoning relies on relative wheel motion and is subject to cumulative slippage errors. Inertial motion tracking uses rate gyroscopes and accelerometers to measure motion. Accuracy depends upon sensor quality and calibration. The Segway RMP 400 and Seekur robots are two of the platforms designed for such research; most other outdoor research robots are jerry-rigged from existing vehicles.\n\nIn constrained outdoor areas, some robots, such as the John Deere Gator, simply surround the perimeter with radio beacons and use simple triangulation from three or more beacons to localize and navigate. Beacons are also used indoors by older AGVs in factories.\n\nMuch research software for autonomous robots is Free Software or Open Source Software, including: Robot Operating System, Carmen from Carnegie Mellon, Player/Stage/Gazebo from the University of Southern California and the ARIA APIs from MobileRobots Inc. URBI with a Free Software SDK, is used in many universities.\n\nCommercial software includes Webots, which has been developed since 1998 and is licensed by more than 500 universities. It runs on Linux, Windows and Mac OS X. In June 2006, Microsoft Research began offering free beta-test copies of a Robotics Studio software development kit with Pioneer robots in simulation for Windows XP.\n"}
{"id": "2272761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2272761", "title": "Bahá'í study circle", "text": "Bahá'í study circle\n\nThe term study circle has become common terminology in the Bahá'í Faith to describe a specific type of gathering for the study of the Bahá'í teachings, with an emphasis on \"promoting the well-being of humanity.\"\n\nStudy circles are a form of distance learning designed to systematically bring education about spiritual concepts to the grassroots level. Because they are intended to be sustainable and reproducible on a large scale, study circles shy away from formally taught classes, opting instead for participatory methods. They are usually led by a tutor whose role is not to act as an expert but rather to facilitate the rhythm and pace of the study circle. In this way, attendees of study circles are expected to become active participants in their own learning process.\n\nAnother foundational principle of study circles is a heavy emphasis on the as a means of finding unity of vision and action by focusing on the essentials of Bahá'í belief.\n\nAt the present time, the most common curriculum used in study circles is one that was originally developed at the Ruhi Institute in Colombia but is now used in Bahá'í communities all over the world. Because of its origin, most Bahá'ís refer to this curriculum as the Ruhi sequence or Ruhi materials. Additional courses used by study circles vary from country to country and include the \"Fundamental Verities\" and \"Core Curriculum\" materials developed in the United States, among others.\n"}
{"id": "51972572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51972572", "title": "Champasak Sangha College", "text": "Champasak Sangha College\n\nChampaksak Sangha College or CSC (Lao: ວິທະຍາໄລົສົງຄ໌ຈຳປາສັກ) is the second Buddhist College in Laos. It is at Wat Luang Pakse, Pakse District, Champasak Province, Laos.\n\nThe Champasak Sangha College currently offers only B.A Programs . There are three faculties which have organized into several academic units: Faculty of Buddhist Studies, Faculty of Lao, and Faculty of English.\n"}
{"id": "28506472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28506472", "title": "Council of School Supervisors &amp; Administrators", "text": "Council of School Supervisors &amp; Administrators\n\nThe Council of School Supervisors & Administrators (CSA) is a New York City based collective bargaining unit for Principals, Assistant Principals, Supervisors and Education Administrators who work in the New York City public schools and Directors and Assistant Directors who work in city-funded day care. It was founded in 1962 as the \"Council of Supervisory Associations.\"\n\nSince its inception, the CSA has played a major role in NYC public schools, including arguing successfully for salary increases, a salary index, and creating a welfare fund for its employees. It became a member of the AFL-CIO in 1971 as part of a new national organization.\n\nAccording to CSA's Department of Labor records since 2005, about half of the union's membership are considered retirees, with eligibility to vote in the union. CSA contracts also often cover some non-members, known as agency fee payers, which usually number comparatively about 2% of the size of the union's membership. Currently, this accounts for 6,698 retirees, and 210 non-members paying agency fees, compared to 6,046 \"active\" members.\n\nIn January, 1962, eleven supervisory associations form the \"Council of Supervisory Associations\" in order to fight for a salary index. The eleven charter members include supervisory groups from Assistant Principal to Assistant Superintendent. The new, united organization is created to allow school administrators to more effectively advocate for their rights and interests, as well as to help improve the quality of NYC public school education.\n\nIn March, 1962, the Board of Education gives the Council de facto recognition and issues a written policy statement recognizing the supervisors' right to present their views regarding their salaries, hours and working conditions.\n\nOne of the Council's earliest agreements is on a salary index. This index establishes a relationship between the salaries of supervisors and the teachers they supervise as well as between groups of supervisors. In 1962, this index is partially implemented and results in the single highest increase for supervisors in several years. By 1963, the Council's representative in Albany secures passage of a mandatory supervisory salary index in New York City, which is then extended in 1964 to include elementary, junior and senior high school principals across the state.\n\nOn July 1, 1964, the CSA Major Medical Expense Insurance Plan goes into effect on with more than 900 supervisors enrolled.\n\nThe Council is formally recognized by the Board of Education on May 5, 1965, as the representative of all persons eligible for membership in each of its constituent organizations. The memorandum calls for monthly consultations between the CSA and the Superintendent of Schools - and at least once a year with the Board of Education - on matters of educational policy, working conditions, salary schedules, and grievance procedures. This is the first agreement of its kind granted to supervisors in the nation.\n\nIn Spring, 1965, the \"CSA Welfare Fund\" is established. The Board of Education agrees to provide $140 per CSA member to the Fund. In June 1966, the trustees decide to provide supplemental major medical insurance, extended Blue Cross coverage and life insurance as well.\n\nIn September, 1966, the CSA establishes a full-time office in Brooklyn.\n\nCSA negotiates its first written contract with the Board of Education in the fall of 1969. The agreement, the first comprehensive contract for school supervisors in the United States, runs for a three-year term beginning October 1, 1969. The agreement provides for substantial salary increases, a pension package, grievance machinery with advisory arbitration as the last step, a special complaints procedure in cases of harassment, regular sabbaticals, and an option for preretirement leave in lieu of accumulated sabbaticals.\n\nFollowing a membership referendum, CSA joins the AFL-CIO as Local 1 of a new, nationally chartered union, the School Administrators and Supervisors Organizing Committee, later named American Federation of School Administrators (AFSA). Since labor affiliation required individual membership on a one-man, one-vote basis, the name of the CSA is changed from the \"Council of Supervisory Associations\" to the \"Council of Supervisors and Administrators.\"\n\nThe contract negotiated with the Board of Education in September, 1976, gives CSA the right to take a grievance dispute to final and binding arbitration. Successor agreements in 1978 include substantial cost of living adjustments, bonus monies, eight percent raises over the life of the contract, additional sabbaticals, and the elimination of 26 hours of conference time for all tenured supervisors.\n\nIn 1976, CSA negotiates the first contract between CSA and the Day Care Council of New York, Inc., covering the Professional Association of Day Care Directors.\n\nA new contract signed in 1980 offers significant changes, including a new group added to the collective bargaining unit (Education Administrators), an eight percent salary increase over two years, and an increase for per session employees. A new Day Care Contract is also negotiated and leads to substantial improvements in salary and working conditions for Directors and Assistant Directors.\n\nThe former CSA Welfare Fund becomes the Day Care Council / CSA Welfare Fund, and eventually covers prescription drugs, expanded hospitalization coverage, dental plans and some emergency services not covered by the employer.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Council of Supervisors and Administrators\" becomes the \"Council of School Supervisors and Administrators.\" CSA also introduces a professional development organization, the Executive Leadership Institute, and eventually opens Educational Leadership Centers in five boroughs. ELI establishes itself as a premiere program offering training for all its members with a wealth of single topic workshops as well as targeted programs for new and experienced Assistant Principals, aspiring Principals, Education Administrators and Day Care Directors. In 2008-09, ELI begins a collaboration with and receives funding from the Leadership Academy to provide training for Principals.\n\nIn May, 2004, the Executive Board approves the formation of a Retiree Chapter. By June, 2005, the Retiree Chapter has over 5,000 members. The Executive Board votes to merge the CSA Retiree Chapter with the Retired School Supervisors Association. Later that month, the RSSA votes for the merger as well.\n\nIn June, 2004, with no contract in sight, Day Care Directors go on strike in conjunction with Day Care workers from Local 1707 shutting nearly all the city’s 350 city-subsidized Day Care Centers. In May, 2005, Day Care members overwhelmingly vote to ratify a new contract. The contract offers members $1,200 upon ratification, and a 14.5 percent raise over the length of the deal, which expires June 30, 2006. It also adds tens of thousands of dollars a year to the CSA Day Care Welfare Fund.\n\nIn 2012, CSA celebrated 50 years since its founding with a gala at the Waldorf=Astoria in New York. Academy Award-winning actor and AFL-CIO member Susan Sarandon introduced AFL-CIO president Richard Trumka, who addressed the guests on the importance of unions and labor in trying economic times, and discussed his thoughts on the upcoming presidential election. He vigorously endorsed the incumbent, President Barack Obama. Approximately 800 CSA members and friends attended the event.\n\nOn May 4, 2012, after half a century in Brooklyn, CSA moved its headquarters to 40 Rector Street in lower Manhattan.\n\nFounded in 2002, the Executive Leadership Institute (ELI) is CSA's professional development program. It is \"designed to deliver practical, relevant and essential professional development for today's school leaders.\" Seminars are led by former administrators on a variety of topics ranging from “Supporting the Low Performing Teacher,” “Instructional Leadership for Students with Diverse Needs,” to data management and software training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50718616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50718616", "title": "Crisis Management State Academy", "text": "Crisis Management State Academy\n\nCrisis Management State Academy (CMSA, ) is a state-owned public academy in Yerevan, Armenia. Founded in 1992, the academy is committed to training professionals in fire protection, rescue missions machinery, risk management, security operations, civil defense and rescue operations, offering bachelor's and master's degree programs.\n\nThe academy is on 1 Acharyan Street, in the Avan District of Yerevan. It is directed by the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Armenia.\n\nThe Stepanavan branch of the academy is operating since 2006.\n\nThe academy offers the following programs in the bachelor's degree (3–4 years):\n\nThe academy offers the following programs in the master's degree (1–2 years):\n\n"}
{"id": "25914335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25914335", "title": "EET Nº7 Taller Regional Quilmes (IMPA)", "text": "EET Nº7 Taller Regional Quilmes (IMPA)\n\nThe Escuela de Educación Técnica Nº7 (EET Nº7), (also called IMPA), is a high school institution in Quilmes City, Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is directly administered by the Dirección General de Escuelas y Educación and the Argentine Air Force and located in the Area Material Quilmes.\n\nBefore the Area Material Quilmes was established in the place where now there was not an industrial facility called \"IMPA\" which was short for \"Plastic Metalworkers Argentinas\". When the school was founded in 1957, there was a tower within Quilmes, which had the IMPA logo painted on it; this tower is visible from the Avenue Otamendi. Then the tower was painted, although the slogan IMPA remained visible from despite painting. Finally the front of the tower was cut off and removed the IMPA slogan for this school and it earned the nickname \"IMPA\", in reference to that company. Later, the school adopted the theme and the fact that his motto in the Spanish acronym \"Progress Action Master Identity\".\n\nThe school began operations in March 1957, first under the jurisdiction of the Regional Workshop Quilmes. The school's mission was to educate apprentices for the workshops of aircraft operators. On April 25, 1962, Quilmes Regional Workshop and the National Council of Technical Education agreed and the school officially began operating as a secondary school under the name of the National Technical Education School No. 4 \"Taller de Quilmes regional\" using the facilities and assets provided by the Argentinian Air Force. Since 1971, the electronics technician degree has been offered at the school, and it graduated its first class of electronics technicians in 1973. The title of Technical Aviation has offered since 1973, and it graduated its first class of aeronautical technicians in 1975. After the 1999 reforms of secondary schools in Buenos Aires, the electronics technician degree was replaced by the qualification of avionics technician. The school was renamed the School of Technical Education No. 7 \"Taller Regional Quilmes\"\n\nClasses begin at 7:35 and end at 15:30 (basic cycle) with a second class finishing at 17:40.\n\nTo become a student at this institution, one must take an entrance exam which is evaluated (by the year to which they will be entering). Mathematics is a necessary qualification. In the fourth year there is specialisation between Aeronautical and Avionics.\n\n\nClasses begin at 7:30 in the morning, ending at 5:40 in the afternoon (high school).\nClasses begin at 7:30 in the morning, ending at 3:40 in the afternoon (middle school).\n\nStudents enter the school in first year in the 3rd EGB cycle (7th, 8th and 9th grade). If this is completed, students begin the Polimodal (10th, 11th and 12th grade); if this is completed, the student receives the bachelor diploma. If the student decides to do so, he can enter the technician year; if completed, the student receives the technician degree.\n\nThe school has a hangar with seven planes and two helicopters, along with motors, landing gear, etc. There is an avionics laboratory, pneumatics lab, hydraulics lab and digital electronics lab. \n\nThe school has a dining room and a cafeteria.\n\nThe school has a rugby and soccer field, together with a shot put field, javelin throw field, long jump field, high jump equipment, and a running track.\n\n\nClassroom uniform:\nOptional for winter:\nAeronautics uniform (for hangar practice):\nAvionics uniform (for laboratory practice):\nThe day-to-day administration of the school is headed by the principal, Hugo Cesar Jorge Alori. There is also a symbolic headmaster, who is an officer in the Argentinian Air Force, Comodoro Roberto E. Olgiati.\n\nSchool Principaps since the accreditation from the Consejo Nacional de Educación Técnica (April 25 1962):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27278686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27278686", "title": "ENotes", "text": "ENotes\n\neNotes is a student and teacher educational website founded in 1998, that provides material to help students complete homework assignments and study for exams.\nBased in Seattle, Washington in the United States, eNotes specializes in lesson plans, study guides and literary criticisms and is widely cited across the web. It also hosts an active homework help portal where students can ask educators academic questions. The Homework Help section has hundreds of thousands of questions with answers.\n\nThe website's material mainly focuses on literature and history, though the company offers a variety of different topics within the humanities. A network of over 1,000 teachers and professors contributes much of the content. It is different from other online subscription education services in that an in-house publishing team edits uploaded works mainly for grammar and formatting. With its subscription model, the company bootstrapped its way to profitability and claims about 750 new sign-ups on a weekday during the school year. According to internet analytics firm Quantcast.com, the site is accessed by more than 11 million unique visitors each month, making it among the most-visited education properties in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3671749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3671749", "title": "Ethnic nepotism", "text": "Ethnic nepotism\n\nIn sociology, the term ethnic nepotism describes a human tendency for in-group bias or in-group favouritism applied by nepotism for people with the same ethnicity within a multi-ethnic society.\n\nThe term was coined in the 1960s in the context of the ethnic (tribal) tensions and rivalry in the then-recently independent states in Sub-Saharan Africa such as Nigeria.\n\nThe theory views ethnocentrism and racism as nepotism toward extended kin and an extension of kin selection. In other words, ethnic nepotism points toward a biological basis for the phenomenon of people preferring others of the same ethnicity or race; it explains the tendency of humans to favor members of their own racial group by postulating that all animals evolve toward being more altruistic toward kin in order to propagate more copies of their common genes.\n\n\"The myth of common descent\", proposed by many social scientists as a prominent ethnic marker, is in his view often not a myth at all. \"Ethnicity is defined by common descent and maintained by endogamy\".\n\nTo guard one's genetic interests, Frank Salter notes altruism toward one's co-ethnics:\n\nRegarding how this translates into politics and why homogeneous societies are more altruistic, Frank Salter writes:\n\nJ. Philippe Rushton has complemented kin selection and ethnic nepotism by his genetic similarity theory which proposes that \"genetically similar people tend to seek one another out and to provide mutually supportive environments such as marriage, friendship, and social groups. This may represent a biological factor underlying ethnocentrism and group selection\". He has also argued that:\n[B]ecause fellow ethnics carry copies of the same genes, ethnic consciousness is rooted in the biology of altruism and mutual reciprocity. Thus ethnic nationalism, xenophobia and genocide can become the ‘dark side’ of altruism. Moreover, shared genes can govern the degree to which an ideology is adopted. Some genes will replicate better in some cultures than in others. Religious, political and class conflicts become heated because they affect genetic fitness. Karl Marx did not take his analysis far enough: ideology may be the servant of economic interest, but genes influence both. Since individuals have a greater concentration of genetic interest (inclusive fitness) in their own ethnic group than they do in other ethnic groups, they can be expected to adopt ideas that promote their group over others. Political ethologist Frank Salter refers to ideologies as ‘fitness portfolios’, and psychologist Kevin MacDonald has described co-ethnics as engaging in \"group evolutionary strategies.\"\nIn Rushton's interpretation it is not clear whether the proposed genetic likeness that supports ethnic nepotism is limited to external appearance, or it also includes other loci. If that is the case, it would be difficult to deduct how similar blood types or creatine levels, or others, among the multitude of invisible phenotype traits, contribute to determine the bonding behavior towards people carrying the alleged similar alleles. Also, there is no clue offered as to which of these specific alleles are the most important for expression of ethnic nepotism. Hamiltonian kin selection (in itself very controversial) refers exclusively to defined sets of discrete behaviors that are innate, not learned and increase the reproductive fitness among very close kin, whereas ethnic nepotism would appear to depend heavily on social interactions and on morphology, or physical characteristics.\n\nAccording to research by Van der Dennen, \"ethnocentrism-cum-xenophobia\" seems universally present in preindustrial societies (and in many primate and social carnivore species).\n\nTatu Vanhanen in his 1999 book \"Ethnic Conflicts Explained by Ethnic Nepotism\" empirically examined the relationships between the degree of ethnic homogeneity, the degree of ethnic conflicts, and the degree of democratization in the nations of the world. He found that more ethnically heterogeneous nations had more ethnic conflicts. The degree of democratization explained very little of the degree of ethnic conflicts except that very authoritarian states such as the former Soviet Union and Yugoslavia could suppress ethnic conflicts. Ethnic conflicts were only slightly less common in more economically developed countries. They appeared within all racial groups, cultures, and geographical regions. In Vanhanen's view, people have a genetic tendency to easily learn ethnic attitudes and psychological mechanisms leading to prejudice, scapegoating, and discrimination.\n\n"}
{"id": "5370575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5370575", "title": "Evolutionary educational psychology", "text": "Evolutionary educational psychology\n\nEvolutionary educational psychology is the study of the relation between inherent folk knowledge and abilities and accompanying inferential and attributional biases as these influence academic learning in evolutionarily novel cultural contexts, such as schools and the industrial workplace. The fundamental premises and principles of this discipline are presented below.\n\nThe premises of evolutionary educational psychology state there are:\n\nThe principles of evolutionary educational psychology represent the foundational assumptions for an evolutionary educational psychology. The gist is knowledge and expertise that is useful in the cultural milieu or ecology in which the group is situated will be transferred across generations in the form of cultural artifacts, such as books, or learning traditions, as in apprenticeships (e.g., Baumeister, 2005; Richerson & Boyd, 2005; Flinn, 1997; Mithen, 1996). Across generations, the store of cultural knowledge accumulates and creates a gap between this knowledge base and the forms of folk knowledge and abilities that epigenetically emerge with children’s self-initiated activities.\n\nThere must of course be an evolved potential to learn evolutionarily novel information and an associated bias to seek novelty during the developmental period and indeed throughout the life span; this may be related to the openness to experience dimension of personality (Geary, 1995, 2002, in press).\n\nHowever, the cross-generational accumulation of knowledge across cultures, individuals, and domains (e.g., people vs. physics) has resulted in an exponential increase in the quantity of secondary knowledge available in modern societies today. For most people, the breadth and complexity of this knowledge will very likely exceed any biases to learn in evolutionary novel domains.\n\nA related issue concerns the traits that enable the \"creation\" of biologically secondary knowledge and thus culture and the extent to which these traits overlap with the ability to \"learn\" knowledge created by others.\n\nStated differently, Is the goal of education to have children recreate the process of discovery, to learn the products of discovery, or some combination? Some educators have advocated a focus on the process of discovery without full consideration of the constellation of traits and opportunity that contribute to the creation of secondary knowledge (e.g., Cobb, Yackel, & Wood, 1992). In fact, research on creative-productive individuals suggests that the full constellation of traits that facilitate the discovery and creation of secondary knowledge is rare and not likely reproducible on a large scale (Simonton, 1999a, 1999b, 2003; Sternberg, 1999; Wai, Lubinski, & Benbow, 2005).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1461667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461667", "title": "Federal University of Paraná", "text": "Federal University of Paraná\n\nThe Federal University of Paraná (, UFPR) is a public university headquartered in Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.\n\nUFPR ranks as 37th best university in Latin-America and it is among the 651-700 best universities in the world, according to QS World University Rankings. It is placed as the 9th best university in Brazil in the latest \"Ranking Universitário Folha (RUF)\", published by the nation's largest newspaper.\n\nNowadays, its facilities are spread over the capital Curitiba and other cities of the State of Paraná. It offers 124 undergraduate degree courses, 44 doctorate, 66 masters and 5 professional masters programs, apart from a number of \"lato sensu\" programs (mostly paid one-year specializations) - see Higher-ed degrees in Brazil.\n\nSince 2009 internal elections the University is run by Rector Zaki Akel Sobrinho, D.Sc. in Administration from Universidade de São Paulo, and Vice-Rector Rogerio Andrade Mulinari, D.Sc. in Medicine from Universidade Federal de São Paulo, and with a Post-Doc from Boston University.\n\nIn 1892, José Francisco da Rocha Pombo, an intellectual of the state of Paraná would have initiated the construction of the University, but his project was frustrated by the Federalist Movement.\n\nTwenty years later, Paraná had a reduced number of intellectuals (nine doctors and four engineers), but it was in true development because of the production of the yerba mate.\n\nMoreover, at this time, the Contestado War appeared as an incentive to the efforts of political leaderships concerning the creation of a university. In this context, Victor Ferreira do Amaral, deputy and director of public instruction of Paraná, started the effective creation of the University.\n\nOn December 19, 1912 the University was established and, in 1913, it has initiated its activities as a private institution in an old building situated on Comendador Araújo street. The first courses offered were Juridical and Social Sciences, Engineering, Medicine and Surgery, Commerce, Dentistry, Pharmacy and Obstetrics. After the establishment of the University, Victor Ferreira do Amaral, who was also its first president, initiated the construction of a central building in a land donated by the municipal government.\n\nDue to the economic recession caused by the World War I, difficulties started to appear. In 1920, a federal law determined the closing of all universities. In a contradictory measure, the federal government created the \"Universidade do Rio de Janeiro\", currently \"Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro\" (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro). The alternative to this law was to split the UFPR in several colleges.\n\nThroughout several years, efforts in order to restore the university took place. Only in the beginning of the fifties the colleges were reunited once again in the University of Paraná, its federalization happening just after that, in 1951, when the university became a public and free-of-charge institution.\n\nAfter its federalization, a process of expansion began with the construction of the Clinic's Hospital (Portuguese: \"Hospital de Clínicas da Universidade Federal do Paraná\") in 1953, the \"Reitoria\" Campus in 1958 and the Polytechnic Center in 1961. The Polytechnic Center campus occupies .\n\nThe construction placed in the Santos Andrade Square began to be built in 1913, being a project of the military engineer Baeta de Faria. Its inauguration occurred in 1915.\n\nSeven years later, in 1923, two lateral parts were added, according to the original project. The building of the right sector was ended in 1925 and was designated to the Engineering graduation course. In the following year, the left sector had been finalized and it passed to serve the Dentistry course. Other additions were made to the right side of the building and it has received in its totality new paint in 1940. The building was extended towards XV de Novembro Street and, in 1952, new works in the right section led to the demolition of part of the lateral façade built in 1940.\n\nIn 1954, the building occupied a whole block between the Santos Andrade Square, XV de Novembro Street, Presidente Faria Street and Alfredo Bufren Lane. The last modifications were made: a new façade with several columns and a wide set of staircases were projected and the covered dome was eliminated. The inauguration of the neoclassical, 17,000 square meter building, took place in 1955.\n\nIn the year on 1999, the mayor of Curitiba signed a law that made this building the official symbol of the city.\n\n\nBesides the above-mentioned courses, it offers high school education through its Technical High School. \n\nStudents are admitted by an entrance exam, known as the vestibular, which consists of two parts:\n\n\nOver 50,000 people apply every year and sit for exactly the same exam. After two weeks time or so, 15,000 are called to take the Part II (or Phase II) written exams.\n\n\nThe wait for the results of Part II is much longer and the results may take something between 4 and 7 weeks. A list with all the admitted candidates comes out usually in the middle of January—on the same day as the \"Mud-bath Party\" sponsored by the Central Directory of Students (Portuguese: Diretório Central dos Estudantes, DCE) occurs.\n\n\nAnd many more\n\nThe university has over 400,000 books and theses as well as thousand of periodicals that, for now, can't be accessed through its intranet, but will be in the future.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27754029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27754029", "title": "Fedir Danylak", "text": "Fedir Danylak\n\nFedir Ivanovych Danylak () (born 1955) is an innovative dancer, balletmaster, choreographer and artistic director of the Barvinok Ukrainian School of Dance in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.\n\nFedir Danylak was born on September 2, 1955 in Pukiv, in the Ukrainian SSR of the Soviet Union (today in the Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast of western Ukraine). Growing up in a large family during the Communist rule of Ukraine was not easy, yet from an early age Fedir always showed that he had a talent for entertaining. He loved to perform in front of crowds in his native village and after graduating from the high school, he was accepted into the Snyatyn College of Culture where he studied the art of Ukrainian dance and received training in ballet, choreography and dance. Upon his graduation, he was drafted into the Soviet Army, serving in the Long Range Missile Defence group in Sochi.\n\nThe completion of his military assignment was followed by the acceptance into the Kiev State Institute of Culture, where Fedir received further training in teaching, training of Folk Dance Directors, and choreography in Ukrainian Folk Dance as well as other international dance styles, including Latin American dances (chacha, salsa, merengue, rhumba, etc.). Fedir also received extended training in Ballroom dance styles such as foxtrot, waltz, quickstep, and tango.\n\nAfter graduating from the Kiev Institute with a Diploma in Choreography, Fedir join a professional Ukrainian Dance Ensemble in Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine. The Hutsul Ensemble of Song and Dance was an ideal place for Fedir to experience and learn about the culture and dances of the Western part of Ukraine. It was in Ivano-Frankivsk that he met his future wife Hrystyna and it was in Ivano-Frankivsk oblast that he chose to settle and begin his professional career as a choreographer.\n\nHe accepted the position of Professor of Choreography at the Kalush College of Culture. Beginning his teaching career, Fedir aspired to create a broader awareness of Ukrainian Dance among his community and in Kalush as a whole. His love of Ukrainian folk traditions led him to found the first Ukrainian Folk Ensemble Merezhyvo, as an extension of the Kalush College of Culture. Throughout its years, Merezhyvo served as a starting point for Fedir's students to gain professional dance and choreography experience in both Ukrainian and other International dances. Many of his students, after graduating from the College of Culture and the Merezhyvo Dance Ensemble, became professional dancers, choreographers, teachers, some founding and leading Ukrainian dance schools in Ukraine and abroad.\n\nWhile teaching at the college in Kalush, Fedir was recruited to perform in an amateur Ukrainian Dance Ensemble Pokuttya, in the neighbouring city of Kolomyia. Participation in the ensemble allowed Fedir to further expand his significant knowledge of the folk dance traditions of the Western Ukraine regions. Also, while working under the talented choreographer and artistic director Dana Demkiv helped Fedir gain experience in management of a professional dance school. Being part of the ensemble Pokuttya also gave Fedir the opportunity to perform on the international stage.\n\nIn late 1996, Fedir Danylak and his family immigrated to Canada. The city of Toronto, with its vibrant and sizable Ukrainian community offered Fedir plenty of opportunity to continue in his chosen career as a teacher and choreographer. In the first year, Fedir taught Ukrainian dance at a number of Ukrainian dance school in Toronto area. Vesnianka and Academy of Ukrainian Dance presented him with the experience of teaching dance at the Ukrainian community abroad.\n\nThe immigration and settling in Canada was not an easy path to follow. According to Canadian Education Standards, Fedir's university diploma from Ukraine was only equated to a simple bachelor's degree from University of Toronto. This, however, was not enough to prevent Fedir from following his chosen path as an educator. With help from his friends and family he got started as a substitute teacher at the Toronto District School Board, eventually earning an Ontario College of Teacher diploma, which allowed him to become a fully qualified teacher in Ontario. Hard work and perseverance pushed him to take on specialized course work and in time become a fully qualified Special Education Teacher. With support from Lesa Semsecen, then a Vice Principal at the Toronto's Elmbank Junior Middle Academy, he was hired as a special education teacher at the school.\n\nThe year 1997 began a new path for Fedir Danylak. He was introduced to Barvinok Ukrainian Dance Ensemble's executive committee by his friend Myroslava Cummings. During the trial period at the dance school, Fedir impressed the committee with his vast knowledge of Ukrainian Dance and his ability to impart his knowledge onto his students, from little five-year-olds to dancers in their early twenties. The decades of experience teaching Ukrainian Dance in Ukraine served as a starting point in his career as an Artistic Director of Barvinok.\n\nSoon after his hiring, Fedir's dedication to the school and his hard work earned him a position as an Artistic Director. This new role allowed him to take the school in the new direction, introduce his unique teaching methodology. As the years went on the people in the Ukrainian Community in Toronto began to notice the changes in Barvinok School of Dance. Improved quality of both dancers and dances wow the attendees of multiple multicultural dance festivals in Toronto. Dedication of the parents helped to increase the efficiency of how the school was run and allowed the freedom for Fedir to dedicate himself expand the school's dance repertoire and improve overall dance education quality.\n\nThe results were earned with hard work of both Fedir Danylak and the dancer's parents. The first trip to Ukraine in 2000 culminated with a 1st place at the International Ukrainian Dance Competition in Yalta. Participation in numerous festivals and formal events helped spread the popularity of the school and its attendance group from over a hundred students, when Fedir began, to over four hundred dancers in 2009-2010 year. Still there was more to be done, and Fedir enthusiastically followed his chosen path. In 2004, the second trip was again successful, with performances in Kharkiv at the city's 350th anniversary and in front of the thousands of spectators for the Ukraine's Independence Day in 2004.\nOrganized by Fedir Danylak, with the help of parental committee, third trip in 2008 was a commemorative 40th anniversary tour celebrating 40 years since the creation of Barvinok Ukrainian School of Dance. This tour featured performances in Lviv, Pukiv, Rohatyn, Ternopil and Kiev. Its most memorable presentation, choreographed and produced by Fedir was the Holodomor dance suite. Created as a commemorate the victims of the 1932-1933 genocide of Ukrainian people, it was performed at the annual Ukrainian World Congress in front of the then president Viktor Yuschenko and prime-minister Yulia Tymoshenko of Ukraine. It gained further acclaim when it was performed at an event commemorating the Holodomor victims on November 29, 2008 in Toronto Canada.\n\nIn his time as a Barvinok's artistic director he has choreographer dozens of unique dances from all regions of Ukraine for students of all ages. This is the partial list of Ukrainian Folk Dances choreographed by Fedir Danylak. The list also includes the Latin and Ballroom suites.\n\n1. Hopak\n2. Volyn\n3. Holodomor Suite\n4. Wedding Suites\n5. Prykarpattya Suites\n6. Hutsul Suites\n7. Malanka Night\n8. Wild Dances\n9. Buko\n10. Lemko Dance\n11. Zakarpattya Dance\n12. Vasylechky\n13. Vyjdy Hryciu\n14. Welcome Suites\n15. Oj Na Hori Kalyna\n16. Come Out Hryhorij\n17. Gypsy\n18. Vasylechky\n\nAnd many more, with dozens of dances for dancers from ages 5 to 29\n\nBesides being a choreographer and an artistic director of Barvinok, Fedir also participates in the Ukrainian community as a producer and director of various festivals and community events. Recently, he was the producer of the entertainment program at the celebration of Ukrainian Independence at Centennial Park, in Toronto. He was one of the Organizers of the Ukrainian Dance Festival.\n\nDanylak lives in Mississauga, Ontario. He is married to his lovely wife of 29 years Hrystyna. He has a son Taras. Fedir is also a cousin of Ukrainian Catholic Church bishop Roman Danylak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28105330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28105330", "title": "Friedrich August Krubsacius", "text": "Friedrich August Krubsacius\n\nFriedrich August Krubsacius (21 March 1718 - 28 November 1789) was a German architect, teacher, and architectural theoretician.\n\nHe was born at Dresden. In 1755 he was made court architect to the Electorate of Saxony, in 1764 professor of architecture at the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts and in 1776 chief architect of Saxony.\n\nThe work of Krubascius include palaces for Johann Georg, Chevalier de Saxe, and the Landhaus of Dresden, completed in 1776 and now housing the Dresden City Museum. Among his students were Gottlob Friedrich Thormeyer and Christian Friedrich Schuricht.\n"}
{"id": "19713723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19713723", "title": "G-seat", "text": "G-seat\n\nA G-seat is an exact replica of an ejection seat in a jet fighter, but equipped with additional systems that provide haptic feedback to the pilot in the seat. This seat is not used on actual aircraft, but rather in flight simulators, especially those without a motion platform, like simulators of jet fighters and helicopters.\n"}
{"id": "52964125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52964125", "title": "Gertrude Breslau Hunt", "text": "Gertrude Breslau Hunt\n\nGertrude Breslau Hunt (1869-1952) was an American author and lecturer from Chicago. One of the leading writers for the Socialist Party of America, she often wrote about women's issues, and was active in the suffrage movement. She also published under the name Gertrude Breslau Fuller.\n\nGertrude Breslau was born in Chicago on December 10, 1869. Her father, a war artist named James Cushman Breslau, died when she was an infant, and she was adopted by Henry H. Kaiser and Diadma (Best) Kaiser of Howard County, Iowa. She became a socialist at the age of 16 after studying the single tax question and the temperance movement in Iowa.\n\nBy 1902, she was writing for socialist periodicals and had earned a reputation as \"one of the ablest women in the Socialist movement of Illinois.\" By 1907 she was a national organizer for the Socialist party. She was often described by her contemporaries as a brilliant lecturer, and was involved in the Lyceum movement.\n\nShe published \"An Easy Wheel and Other Stories\", a work of journalistic fiction depicting working-class and rural life, in 1910. Soon afterwards she moved to Pittsburgh, where she lived the rest of her life. In 1911, she was instrumental in obtaining the release of Fred Merrick, editor of \"Justice\" magazine, who had been jailed for libel after exposing brutal treatment of prisoners in the Western Penitentiary in Pennsylvania. The following year, she was a delegate from Pennsylvania to the 1912 Convention of the Socialist Party of America.\n\nIn 1915, addressing the crowd at a suffrage rally in Pittsburgh, she argued for women's suffrage as a means of achieving equal pay:\n\nSo long as women have no voice in government, so long will they be underpaid ... Why should the woman who earns a living for herself and her family be differentiated from the male wage earner? She pays the same rent, she pays the same price for food, for fuel, for clothing. Why should she not be allowed the privilege accorded to men to have a voice in legislative affairs that she can better her condition?\n\nShe later joined the Democratic party and became the state Democratic vice-chairman. In her obituary she is remembered as a \"pioneer leader in the Democratic Party in Pittsburgh and the State.\" She was assistant director of the State Museum of Pennsylvania during Governor George H. Earle's administration in the late 1930s. In 1940, she was living in Pittsburgh and still giving political speeches.\n\nBreslau married several times: to a Mr. Davies in 1900, to Mr. Hunt in 1901, to Mr. Paul Deininger—a former Roman Catholic priest—in 1910, and sometime later to a Mr. Fuller. She died of a stroke in the Leech Farm Hospital in Pittsburgh on November 20, 1952.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13708318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13708318", "title": "HPCx", "text": "HPCx\n\nHPCx was a supercomputer (actually a cluster of IBM eServer p5 575 high-performance servers) located at the Daresbury Laboratory in Cheshire, England. The supercomputer was maintained by the HPCx Consortium, UoE HPCX Ltd, which was led by the University of Edinburgh: EPCC, with the Science and Technology Facilities Council and IBM. The project was funded by EPSRC. \n\nThe HPCx service ended in January 2010,\n"}
{"id": "10891887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10891887", "title": "Habele", "text": "Habele\n\nThe Habele Outer Island Education Fund (or simply Habele) is a South Carolina–based charitable organization serving K-12 aged students in Micronesia. Habele's initial geographic focus was the so-called \"Outer Islands\" of Yap State as well as lagoon and outer islands in neighboring Chuuk State in the Federated States of Micronesia. It now serves students of all backgrounds throughout the Freely Associated States.\n\nThe organization was founded by a group of former Peace Corps volunteers who served in Micronesia, and it received IRS nonprofit status in September 2006. The charity has no salaried employees, relying on volunteers, donors and educators in the US and across Micronesia. Habele's initial geographic focus was the so-called \"Outer Islands\" of Ulithi, Woleai, and Satawal, Eauripik, Ifalik, and Lamotrek in Yap State as well as lagoon and outer islands in neighboring Chuuk state. Beginning in 2013, the nonprofit expanded to serve Micronesian students of all backgrounds throughout the entire Federated States of Micronesia (FSM). and into neighboring Palau and the Marshall Islands. In contrast to bilateral aid provided by the US Government to Micronesia's public sector through the Compact of Free Association , Habele targets support for local schools and civil society, emphasizing competition, incentives, and ownership in order to \"change attitudes and expectations\" among community members.\" \n\nThe fund awards scholarships to students attending primary and secondary private schools and provides material donations to small public schools. In the first year of operation $2,890 in scholarships were awarded. Scholarships for 2007-08 exceeded $3,500. The issuance of scholarships in 2008-09, exceeding $5,000, was described by the Peace Corps Micronesia Country Director as \"particularly important\" for expanding education opportunities because students living outside Micronesia's four state capitals have very limited access to formal education options. A total of 21 scholarships were issued for the 2010-11 school year.\n\nSouth Carolina State Senators Glenn McConnell and Robert Ford of Charleston, South Carolina drew attention to Habele, when the charity announced $7,500 in scholarships for sixteen elementary and high school students in 2009. Louis J. Rama, a senior consul at the Federated States of Micronesia Consulate on Guam, called for the expansion of this and other programs supporting low-income students through tuition assistance.\n\nThe donor-financed tuition payments awarded by Habele are a form of private vouchers. Unlike public school vouchers, private vouchers are not funded by the government. The use of private vouchers for low-income students has been described as a tool for facilitating education reform without becoming immersed in politics.\n\nEarly in 2010, Habele announced plans to develop and distribute native language materials for educators and students in the outer islands of Yap State, Micronesia. The initial project was a Ulithian to English dictionary. This was the first rigorous documentation of the Ulithian language and copies were provided to educators and students throughout Ulithi and Fais. The authors' stated aim was to create a consistent and intuitive pattern of Roman alphabet spelling useful for native Ulithian and native English speakers.\n\nDonations to schools generally consist of books, school supplies, and classroom instructional materials. Habele has played a major role in the creation of libraries on the isolated atolls of Ulithi and Eauripik. English language dictionaries have also been provided to students, including a 1,000 dictionary donation in the Fall of 2012 intended to equip every middle school student throughout Yap State with a personal dictionary for home and classroom use.\n\nHabele also supports programs that engage students outside the traditional classroom. These include financial and material support for the creation of traditional dugout canoes by high school aged boys. as well as creation of after school clubs for robotics competitions between high schools In May 2012, Oceania's first ever Vex Robot competition was held in the State of Yap. Teams representing Yap Catholic High School and the Yap Seventh-Day Adventist School completed a public competition and demonstrated using robotics kits donated by Habele. By 2017, the league had grown to the point where a team from Yap represented all of Micronesia at the FIRST Global international robotics competition in Washington, DC.\n\n"}
{"id": "19846875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19846875", "title": "International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics", "text": "International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics\n\nThe International Olympiad on Astronomy and Astrophysics (IOAA) is an annual astronomy and astrophysics competition for high school students. It is one of the international science olympiads.\n\nThe Olympiad was founded from a dissidence inside the International Astronomy Olympiad, in order to increase the scope of the organization.\n\nThe first IOAA was held in Chiang Mai, Thailand, in November/December 2007. The subsequent annual meetings were held in Indonesia (2008), Iran (2009), China (2010), Poland (2011), Brazil (2012), Greece (2013), Romania (2014), Indonesia (2015), India (2016), and in Phuket, Thailand (2017). The upcoming 12th IOAA will be held in Beijing, China.\n\nThe following table lists multiple (triple and more) gold medal winners of IOAA with their ranks and corresponding years.\n\nNote: Several countries (e.g. India, Indonesia, Iran, Thailand) do not allow their students to contest in IOAA more than two times, even if they are eligible. Thus, statistics from those countries is not included in the table above.\n"}
{"id": "39431442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39431442", "title": "Islamic Azad University, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch", "text": "Islamic Azad University, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch\n\nThe Islamic Azad University, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch is a branch of the Islamic Azad University and is located in the eastern zone of Isfahan, the cultural capital of Iran. It was established in 1987. The university serves more than 19000 students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. It has 386 full and part-time faculty members carrying out education and research in 196 fields and has more than 60,000 alumni throughout country.\n\nOver two decades of activity, the university has achieved many accomplishments in the area of research, education, culture, and sport activities. The faculty members of Isfahan (Khorasgan) Azad University have published over 4200 scholarly research articles (in ISI, SCOPUS, ISC journals).\n\nIslamic Azad University Isfahan (Khorasgan) with an area of about 100 hectares has various research centers and farms. The university research laboratories in different fields including basic sciences, agriculture, environment, civil engineering, electricity and biotechnology, as well as Greenhouse Educational and Research Unit, Mechatronic Center, Wastewater and Sewage Research Center, Education and Research Development Centre (ERDC), Research Center of Addiction Young Researchers Club, Technology Incubator Center, Entrepreneur and Collegiate Cooperation Unit and some other being established units such as new research sectors have provided an atmosphere for researchers. The university has ten faculties and 180 majors in under/graduate programs.\n\nThe Faculty was founded in 1987 and has about 2800 students and 67 faculty members. The Faculty has varied fields such as gardening, soil science, animal science, plant protection, agriculture plant breeding, food science and technology, green space and water and the environment at Bachelor level, Soil Science (Chemistry and fertility), soil science (soil genesis and classification), agriculture, plant breeding, animal science, gardening at Master level and soil science with trends in chemistry and geology with fertility and soil genesis and classification at PhD level. This collection has two educational and research farms with an area of 36 hectares and also two waste – wastewater research centers with an area of 13000 square kilometers.\n\nThe faculty covers geology, applied mathematics and experimental science at Bachelor level, geology with trend in petrology and sedimentology, and applied mathematics at Master level.\n\nThe Faculty was founded in 1994. So far more than 15% of the graduated students of this faculty have been accepted at residency courses. This faculty admits students in endodontics, periodontics, orthodontics, pediatrics and dental restoration in addition to professional dental doctorate.\n\nFaculty of Educational Science & Psychology is one of the earliest faculties of this university, that now has 3 major in B.A course(level) includes Educational Science with trend of Education Planning & Administration, and School and Preschool trend, Industrial and Organizational Psychology.\nM.A course (level) contains Educational management, Educational Planning, curriculum development, philosophy, General Psychology, Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Cultural management, Cultural Planning, history and philosophy of education.\nIn PhD course (level) there are 3 majors: philosophy of education, curriculum development and Educational management .\n\nFaculty of Architecture and Urban Planning (FAUP) started at Islamic Azad University, Khorasgan Branch, first in 1990, by establishing a continuous graduate program; namely, Master of Architecture (M. Arch.) accepting 65 high school graduates under the supervision and instruction of four full-time faculty members. In the following years, the Department of Architecture was reevaluated by Iran Ministry of Science Research and Technology and was qualified to educate students in architecture. Accordingly, FAUP has grown both quantitatively and qualitatively. \nThrough the success of many graduates of this faculty at B.A and M.A levels in the regional and national levels, Khorasgan University Architecture is considered important among other architecture groups in Iran. In addition to architecture, the Faculty of Engineering admits students in computing, electric field and civil engineering. Civil engineering specialized laboratories are equipped ones among the Country higher education institutions’. This faculty also has a mechatronics center,\n\nfaculty of technology and Civil Engineering has three departments encompassing Department of Civil Engineering, Department of Computer Science and Department of Electrical Engineering Department. Departments of Computer Sciences started at IAY, Isfahan Branch by establishing an undergraduate program namely, Software Engineering. At present time, there are two working groups in the Department of computer sciences: the Software Engineering and Computer Technology. ,\n\nAt the present time, 1063 students and 22 faculty members are conducting scientific activities in the fields of English translation, French language (Literary) at B.A level and linguistics, French literature, English translation at M.A level and English language teaching at PhD level.\n\nThe faculty currently covers fields such as law, Islamic education, accounting and Persian literature at Bachelor level and private law, criminal law and criminology, economy, state management at Master level and economic sciences at PhD level.\n\nThe faculty was founded in 1992 and then it commenced admitting students. It is currently admitting students at associate degree, Bachelor and Master levels in nursing and midwifery.\n\nThe field of Physical Education and Sports was commenced by admitting students at Master level in 1993. In 1997 The faculty admitted students at Master level in the fields of sport physiology and management and sport planning. It also commenced admitting students at continuous and discontinuous Bachelor level.\n\nIslamic Azad University Isfahan Branch Khorasgan has more than 80 laboratorial and workroom sectors. Research laboratories of agriculture faculty are equipped with BOD meter, COD meter, Yol meter, Nano Spectrophotometer, gas chromatography (GC), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and other apparatus used for water, soil, and plant analysis.\nBiotechnological research laboratories are also equipped with apparatuses such as: real time PCR, electrophoreses set, nano spectrophotometer and other research facilities related to human, animals and plants genetic tests, which makes it possible for the researchers to study genetic diversities, making genetic science practical in the field of gene transfer and generation of transgenic plants and animals.\nGeology laboratory has advanced apparatuses such as polarizan microscopes\nLaboratorial complex of civil engineering department includes concrete, building materials, soil mechanic, materials resistance, fluids mechanic and hydraulic laboratories. This complex provides software and hardware facilities to the faculty members and students for educational and research purposes. Electricity laboratories include electronic, orbit measurement, control machine, and micro processor laboratories. Electronic and circuit laboratories are equipped with digital oscilloscope, functional digital generators and digital LRC meters and latest apparatuses such as control majols, temperature control, fluid surface control, pressure and motor rotation control.\n\nThe university has one main central library accompanied by 5 technical ones located in some of its faculties. All in all, there are more than 278000 volumes of reference as well as non-reference books in Persian or otherwise. Also books are available for the members through internal digital mode website.\n\nIsfahan (Khorasgan) Azad University Robotic Institute initiated its official activity by making footballer robots in 2004. The first human like robot was made in 2008; afterwards, three small size robots having dynamic control specificities were designed and made. Rescue, pathfinder, two and three dimensions assimilative robots and intelligent environmental identifier and flying systems can be referred to as some of the other scientific achievements of robotic institute.\n\nEntrepreneur and Collegiate Cooperation unit of Isfahan (Khorasgan) Islamic Azad University started its activity as the first branch among Islamic Azad Universities and as the second university among all the other universities throughout the country with the slogan of Entrepreneur University in August 2008.\n\nTechnology Incubator Center of Isfahan (Khorasgan) University has initiated its activity as the first incubator center among Islamic Azad Universities since 2005. This center within the recent years by providing resources and facilities such as central and digital library, negotiation with organizations and companies, allocation of bureau, research and educational sectors, the possibility of using specialized counselors experiences, holding courses and workshops, has been able to admit of students and graduated students in the form of technological units and companies.\n\nGreenhouse Educational and Research Unit of Islamic Azad University Isfahan Branch Khorasgan was established in 2004 with An area of 13500 m2 including 7 educational and productive greenhouses and 2 research ones, compatible with environmental conditions of the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35748661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35748661", "title": "Islamic Azad University, Shiraz Branch", "text": "Islamic Azad University, Shiraz Branch\n\nThe Islamic Azad University, Shiraz Branch () is a private university located in Shiraz, Iran. It is a part of private chain of universities in Iran called the Islamic Azad Universities.\nThe Islamic Azad University of Shiraz with over 290 faculty and academic staff, 82,000 square meters of educational space, 7,500 square meters of administration space, 15,200 square meters of sporting space, is the biggest private university in the southern region of Iran.\n\nThe headquarters of the Islamic Azad University is in Tehran, Iran. The Islamic Azad University was founded in 1982 and currently has an enrollment of 1.7 million students, 30,000 Alumni and 35,000 Administrators making it the world's third largest. Over 3.5 million students have graduated from the Islamic Azad University since its establishment. Islamic Azad University has a total area of 16 million square meters and over 440 branches across Iran and also in other countries around the world. It has also international branches and universities in the U.A.E, United Kingdom, Tanzania, Lebanon, Afghanistan and Armenia and has plans to establish more branch campuses in Malaysia, Canada, and Tajikistan in the near future.\n\nOver the years, the university has accumulated assets estimated to be worth between $20 and $25 billion. The total Area of the University is said to be 20 million square meters.\nSome 4 million students have graduated from this university to this date, which has made it possible for a lot of people to get access to higher educations and better employment prospects. \nIn the recent years a lot of effort has been made to expand the graduate studies at the Islamic Azad University. The Islamic Azad University has about 200,000 Master's Degree students and about 20,000 PhD level students.\n\nThe university system also operates a news agency similar to ANA, named \"Azad News Agency\".\nIslamic Azad University's activities quickly expanded throughout the country, so that today thousands of students are enrolling every year. Not relying on government funding, it receives charitable donations and charges tuition fees.\n\nThe Islamic Azad University also operates some 617 schools throughout the country, these schools are known as SAMA ().\n\nThe degrees and certificates issued by this university are recognized by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. Post-graduate degrees have been offered in many different branches of Islamic Azad University.\n\nIslamic Azad University of Shiraz () is a private university located in Shiraz, Iran. It is a part of private chain of universities in Iran called the Islamic Azad Universities.\nThe Islamic Azad University of Shiraz was established in 1987 and it is the biggest Private University in southern part of Iran.\nThe Islamic Azad University of Shiraz was the first in offering many new and different degrees. This university was the first in the southern part of Iran to offers a degree in Industrial Engineering . The Faculty of Art and Architecture of the university was also the first among other universities in Shiraz in offering a degree in Architecture, Music and Theater studies .\nThe Islamic Azad University is divided into different zones. The Shiraz branch is in the Zone One ().\n\nThe Islamic Azad University of Shiraz was appointed as a comprehensive university () in 2011. \nThis University has over 290 faculty and academic staff, with 82,000 square meters of educational space, 7,500 square meters of administration space, 15,200 square meters of sporting space.\nCurrently 17,000 students in different fields of studies and degrees study at this university. Degrees offered at this university include; Associate degrees (2 years), Bachelor's degrees (3, 4 or 5 years), Master's degrees (2 or 3 years), and Doctorate degrees ( 4 or 5 years).\n\nThe Islamic Azad University of Shiraz has four major campuses in the city of Shiraz and the neighbouring city of Sadra (). Faculty of Art and Architecture is in the historic part of the city. The other three campuses are in the newly built city of Sadra, about 30 kilometers north west from Shiraz.\n\nThe newly built Pardis Campus is nearly 158 acres. The Pardis Campus is home to the Faculties of Engineering, Economics and Management, Agriculture and Chemistry.\n\nColleges bring together academics and students from a broad range of disciplines, and within each faculty or department within the university, academics from many different colleges can be found.\n\nThere are several student organisations active throughout the university. These organisations are mainly concentrate on academic activities, with some also interested and active in political and social issues.\n\nThe Office of International Exchange Programs at the Islamic Azad University of Shiraz was established to provide students and faculty with exchange opportunities, including sending and hosting visiting scholars, aiding faculty members in arranging international study tours, developing exchange agreements with universities around the world.\nThe university has developed academic cooperation with several international universities including Tokyo University of Foreign Studies.\n\nThe academic year is divided into three academic terms, determined by the university and the ministry of higher education. The first academic term usually starts on 23 September. The second Academic term usually starts on 11 February, and the Summer term is usually started from 10 July.\n\nFrom 2012, the Islamic Azad University of Shiraz is going to be the official test centre for IDP IELTS Australia in the south of Iran.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26254463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26254463", "title": "Joe Walsh (Illinois politician)", "text": "Joe Walsh (Illinois politician)\n\nWilliam Joseph Walsh (born December 27, 1961), is an American conservative talk radio host and former congressman. He served one term in the United States House of Representatives for Illinois' . He served from January 2011 through January 2013, after defeating three-term incumbent Democratic Representative Melissa Bean by a margin of 291 votes in a surprising upset. He is a member of the Republican Party. While he received little Republican Party support in his bid against Bean, he was popular with the Tea Party movement. Walsh ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. House of Representatives in 1996 and for the Illinois General Assembly in 1998. In the 1990s, he called himself a moderate Republican, but he is now a conservative and a Tea Party activist.\n\nDuring his first months in Congress, Walsh emerged as a sharp critic of the Obama Administration, accusing the president of abandoning the U.S.–Israel alliance and bankrupting the country. He also challenged President Barack Obama to secure the borders with \"moats and alligators\" if necessary. Walsh maintained a no-compromise approach to legislating that included rejecting any tax increases. He consistently voted against raising the federal debt ceiling and authored a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nWalsh's district was redrawn for 2012 by the Democratic-controlled Illinois General Assembly. While he initially planned to run in his newly drawn 14th district against fellow Republican Representative Randy Hultgren, he eventually decided to run in the remapped 8th district against Democratic candidate Tammy Duckworth. Walsh was defeated by Duckworth in the general election on November 6, 2012. Walsh is now a conservative radio show host.\n\nWalsh was born and raised in the Chicago suburb of North Barrington, the fifth of nine children. He graduated from Barrington High School in 1980, where he was the president and active in sports. He attended Grinnell College then earned a Bachelor of Arts in English from the University of Iowa in 1985. In the mid-1980s, he embarked on an acting career, taking lessons in stage, theater and television at The Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute in New York and Los Angeles. He completed a Master of Public Policy at the University of Chicago's Harris School of Public Policy Studies in 1991.\n\nAs a social worker, Walsh worked with the Jobs for Youth program in the inner-city Chicago area, teaching high school dropouts basic academic and job skills. He later taught American government and American history at Oakton Community College and the Hebrew Theological College.\n\nWalsh's congressional website indicates he has advocated for \"market-based solutions to education reform and urban poverty\". He ran the Daniel Murphy Scholarship Fund, a Chicago-based, privately funded program which grants scholarships to low-income students to attend private high schools. He raised funds for two organizations advocating school choice: the American Education Reform Council, and the Milton and Rose Friedman Foundation. In addition, Walsh raised nearly $1 million over a five-year period for the Fabretto Children's Foundation, an international charity which uses education and micro-enterprise to alleviate poverty among Nicaraguan children.\n\nWalsh also worked on state and local government policy issues for The Heartland Institute, a libertarian free-market think tank based in Chicago. He helped launch conservative organizations that seek to limit government and elect fiscal conservatives to state legislatures such as the Legislative Education Action Drive and the Americans for Limited Government. He also did consulting work with the United Republican Fund, an Illinois political action committee helping to elect Republican state legislators.\n\nHe has also raised venture capital for a living, according to the \"Chicago Tribune\", with his campaign website indicating that he worked for Ravenswood Advisors, a Chicago boutique investment banking group which raised early-stage investment capital for new and small businesses. However, he never made much money and has pointed to salaries of $30,000 to $40,000 a year in the past. In 2010, he had a negative net worth of $317,498 according to the Center for Responsive Politics.\n\nWalsh won the Republican nomination for Illinois' 9th congressional district and faced longtime Democratic liberal incumbent Sidney R. Yates, who was 87 years old, in the general election. Walsh campaigned by riding his bicycle through the district. He engaged in self-admitted \"outrageous\" stunts during the campaign which included paying the doorman at Yates' Chicago apartment building $1,000 for being the first person to spot Yates in his district, and throwing a birthday party for Yates that included a cake decorated with 87 candles. Walsh denied he was trying to play the \"age card\". Yates responded that his own age was not a factor, and that Walsh was too young and inexperienced for the job. Yates also commented that the district was too liberal for Walsh, and tried to tie Walsh to the conservative Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich. In response, Walsh distanced himself from Gingrich and said he considered himself a \"moderate Republican\"; he also ran as a pro-choice candidate in the liberal-leaning district. Yates defeated Walsh 63%–37%.\n\nIn 1998, Walsh challenged incumbent Democratic Jeffrey Schoenberg for the 58th district seat in the Illinois House of Representatives, which represents the Chicago North Shore suburbs of Wilmette and Evanston, Illinois. Walsh again ran as pro-choice on abortion. He drove a yellow school bus throughout the district during his campaign to focus attention on the issue of public school funding. He criticized Schoenberg for voting in favor of Republican Governor Jim Edgar's school-funding reform bill that would have increased state income taxes but given property tax relief to North Shore homeowners. Walsh lost to Schoenberg, 62%–38%.\n\nOn September 28, 2009, Walsh launched an exploratory committee to run for the United States House of Representatives in the . The district included parts of the northwest Chicago suburbs, such as Arlington Heights, Schaumburg, Gurnee, Palatine, Mundelein, Zion, Barrington, Woodstock and Walsh's home in McHenry. It had long been reckoned as the most Republican district in the Chicago area, and by some measures in all of Illinois. However, in 2004, Democrat Melissa Bean had ousted 26-year Republican incumbent Phil Crane in a substantial upset, ending seventy years of Republican control.\n\nIn February 2010, Walsh won the Republican primary election, taking about 34 percent of the vote in a six-person field and moving into the district from Winnetka in April. The Republican establishment refused to put much stock into the district with National Republican Congressional Committee member Tom Erickson, saying, \"In the primary, we had really liked Dirk Beveridge or Maria Rodriguez. Those are the two candidates who we thought really had the potential to make this a very competitive race.\" Walsh's campaign responded that that GOP establishment was \"a bit tone deaf when it comes to independent, conservative reform candidates\".\n\nWalsh then advanced to face Bean in the general election. In 2006, Bean had been re-elected with 51 percent and in 2008 with 60 percent of the vote. Bean was endorsed by the \"Chicago Tribune\", the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", \"The Daily Herald\", and the \"Lake County News-Sun\".\n\nWalsh criticized Bean for her 2010 votes in favor of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and against the Stupak–Pitts Amendment that would have prohibited the use of federal funds to cover any part of the cost of any health plan that included coverage of abortion. He described himself as a Tea Party conservative activist and obtained endorsements from two Tea Party organizations, conservative radio talk show host Tom Roeser, and many others.\n\nThe national Democratic and Republican parties did not compete or spend any money in the district, and the state GOP did not help Walsh. As a result, during the 2010 election cycle, Walsh's campaign raised only one-quarter as much as Bean's. He spent about $603,000 and ended the campaign about $362,000 in debt according to campaign finance reports, (with much of the debt due to post election ballot counting of the close race). As late as October, \"The New York Times\" forecast that Bean had an 88 percent chance at winning re-election. Even CQ Politics had the election as \"Safe Democratic\". Despite the lack of funding and his long-shot status, Walsh narrowly defeated Bean by a margin of 0.1% or 291 votes. The race was not called until two weeks after Election Day when provisional ballots were counted. It appeared that the presence of Green Party candidate Bill Scheurer was a factor in the race; he tallied 6,400 votes, far more than Walsh's margin of victory.\n\nDuring the 2011 redrawing of Illinois' election districts by the Democratic-controlled state legislature, Walsh's home, along with most of the McHenry County portion of his old district, was drawn into the 14th district, represented by fellow Republican Randy Hultgren. The 8th was reconfigured to favor a Democratic candidate. Walsh and nine other Republican Illinois Representatives filed a lawsuit alleging that the new borders discriminated against Republican and Latino voters. On September 21, Walsh announced that if the new district lines were upheld in federal court, he would run for election in the now-heavily Republican 14th District against Hultgren.\n\nIn late July 2011, Walsh was endorsed by the Club for Growth to run against Hultgren. However, after several ethics issues regarding Walsh emerged, (such as charges of failing to pay child support, and driving on a suspended license), the Club for Growth distanced itself from Walsh, stating that it would wait until more facts were known before making a decision. In November 2011, Walsh was cited by the Family Research Council Action committee for his \"unwavering support of the family\".\n\nIn December 2011, Walsh decided to run in the redrawn 8th district, where he would likely face Democratic Tammy Duckworth, a former assistant secretary of the VA, in what seemed to pose a tough race for Walsh. In January 2012, the conservative political advocacy group Americans For Prosperity gave Walsh a 100 percent rating.\n\nThe ensuing campaign between Walsh and Duckworth emerged as a bitter race. At a July 2012 campaign event, Walsh accused his opponent of politicizing both her military service as a helicopter pilot and her Iraq War injuries which cost her both legs and the partial use of one arm. He said, \"My God, that's all she talks about. Our true heroes, the men and women who served us, it's the last thing in the world they talk about.\" Walsh later suggested that she was, in fact, a \"true hero,\" but that she should not talk about her service so frequently, and that her service should not command votes. Walsh decided to skip the 2012 Republican National Convention, distancing himself from establishment Republicans.\n\nWalsh's campaign was bolstered by major financial support in the form of outside spending by conservative Super PACs. In September 2012 Americans for Limited Government gave $1,950,000 to the Now or Never PAC, which then spent $2,022,039 to support Walsh and oppose Duckworth. Over $6.6 million in outside spending was reported in the race, with Walsh receiving more than $6 million of that total. Overall, Walsh outspent her $7 million to $4.7 million.\n\nDespite his spending advantage, on November 6, 2012, Duckworth unseated Walsh 55 to 45 percent. Despite his loss, Walsh outperformed the 2012 Republican Presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, who received 41% of the vote in the 8th district.\n\nSeveral days before being sworn into Congress, \"The New York Times\" criticized Walsh for his willingness to accept donations from political action committees and lobbyists. After being sworn in, Walsh announced that consistent with his opposition to government-provided health care and the 2010 health care reform legislation, he would not accept congressional health care benefits.\n\nDuring his early months in Congress, he emerged as a vocal critic of the Democratic Party and President Obama's fiscal policies, and posted a YouTube video in which he accused President Obama of bankrupting the country. He also vowed, \"I won't place one more dollar of debt upon the backs of my kids and grandkids unless we structurally reform the way this town [Washington, D.C.] spends money!\" He became a frequent fixture on cable TV, advocating a \"no compromise\" approach to deficit reduction that rejects any tax increases on the wealthy. He consistently voted against raising the federal debt ceiling and authored a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution. Walsh has also said that President Obama was elected \"because he pushed that magical button: a black man who was articulate, liberal, the whole white guilt, all of that.\" In his first six months in office, Walsh received over 30 appearances on television.\n\nDuring the election season, Walsh was asked what his approach to bipartisanship would be if elected. He replied it would \"not be the time right now to extend your hand across the aisle.\"\n\nIn September 2011, Walsh was among 19 members of Congress criticized for ethics violations in the Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington annual report.\n\nIn November 2011, Walsh was videotaped meeting with his constituents, becoming visibly aggressive and swearing at a woman who questioned him about his comment that the marketplace and the banks were not responsible \"for the mess we're in right now.\" He later apologized for being \"too passionate\".\n\nIn Congress, Walsh held 363 town hall meetings, more than any other member of Congress.\n\nFor the 112th Congress, Walsh was appointed to leadership positions on the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Transportation Security (vice chairman), and the House Small Business Subcommittee on Economic Growth (chairman). A list of all of his former committee assignments follows:\n\nWalsh held other memberships related to his work as a congressman including: the Congressional Hockey Caucus, the House Republican Israel Caucus, the Republican Study Committee and the Tea Party Caucus.\n\nOn March 25, 2013, Walsh aired his first radio show on Chicago's talk station WIND, accordingly called \"The Joe Walsh Show\", as a conservative political commentator. After less than a year on the air in Chicago, \"The Joe Walsh Show\" began airing on WNYM in New York City. In April 2015, WNYM dropped Walsh from its radio platform. As of September 2016, Walsh's radio talk show is aired in several major U.S. cities, including Chicago, New York City, Phoenix, Dallas, and Denver.\n\nOn December 19, 2015, Walsh announced that, should Democratic presidential candidate, and later the nominee, Hillary Clinton win the 2016 United States presidential election, he would run for the office himself in 2020. However, Republican nominee Donald Trump won the 2016 election, defeating Clinton.\n\nIn February 2017, The Joe Walsh Show received national syndication by the Salem Radio Network. Walsh joined Newsmax TV in May 2018.\n\nOn June 19, 2014, Walsh was removed from his radio show for using racially charged language. He was on air again the next day. WIND general manager Jeff Reisman commented: \"During the segment Joe intended to cite several common racial slurs as examples. He did not in any way use them in a defamatory or derogatory manner, simply as examples. However, AM 560 The Answer did not allow them to go on the air. AM 560 The Answer has a policy of not using certain words on the air that are highly inflammatory and offensive even in the context of a discussion of why those words are offensive. We will continue that policy.\"\n\nOn July 7, 2016, the night of the 2016 shooting of Dallas police officers, Walsh wrote on Twitter, \"This is now war. Watch out Obama. Watch out Black Lives Matter punks. Real America is coming after you.\" These comments were interpreted by some as threats. After deleting the tweet (by his account it was deleted by Twitter), Walsh wrote later, \"I wasn't calling for violence, against Obama or anyone. Obama's words and BLM's deeds have gotten cops killed. Time for us to defend our cops.\" The next morning, Walsh stated in an interview with the \"Chicago Tribune\" that Twitter suspended his account and deleted the tweet itself: \"The pre-condition for me reopening my account was they had to delete that tweet.\" He said, \"Of course I didn't mean 'let's go kill Obama and Black Lives Matter.' I was not trying to incite violence against Obama and Black Lives Matter. That's crazy and stupid and wrong. It would end my career and it's wrong.\"\n\nOn October 24, 2016, Walsh wrote on Twitter, \"On November 8th, I'm voting for Trump. On November 9th, if Trump loses, I'm grabbing my musket. You in?\" When Jake Tapper asked him what he meant, Walsh responded, \"It means protesting. Participating in acts of civil disobedience. Doing what it takes to get our country back.\" The \"New York Post\" wrote that \"some took his tweet as a call for violent insurrection.\"\n\nOn May 2, 2017, Walsh wrote on Twitter, \"Sorry Jimmy Kimmel: your sad story doesn't obligate me or anybody else to pay for somebody else's health care.\" in reference to a 13-minute monologue delivered by late night host Jimmy Kimmel discussing his son's congenital heart defect and his belief that covering pre-existing conditions is an important part of healthcare in the United States.\n\nOn September 23, 2017, Walsh described Stevie Wonder as \"Another ungrateful black multi millionaire\" after Wonder had taken a knee in at his concert in protest of police brutality.\n\nOn September 23, 2017, Walsh retweeted CNN anchor Jake Tapper's discussion of Saudi Arabia repealing its longstanding ban on women drivers, under the caption \"Yes, this is Islam\". Walsh received criticism for this tweet, with several respondents pointing out that all Muslim countries allow women to drive.\n\nIn his failed 1996 congressional bid, Walsh was more socially liberal, favoring abortion rights and gun control.\n\nWalsh holds conservative views. On taxes, he said he favors extending the Bush tax cuts, abolishing the estate tax, and cutting both the capital gains and corporate tax rates. He blamed joblessness on a reluctance by small businesses to hire and traced that reluctance to an uncertainty on tax policy. In November 2011, Walsh described the Occupy movement as composed of \"generally spoiled, pampered, unfocused, clueless young people and a smattering of other people who don't understand this country and are advocating anti-American solutions.\" When a constituent pointed out that veterans have also taken part in the Occupy movement, Walsh responded, \"I don't know how many veterans are part of the Occupy protest. I can't imagine it's many. But anyone who would advocate socialist solutions to certain problems in this country ... they don't understand this country.\"\n\nOn entitlement reform, he suggested cuts would have to be made. \"The first thing we need to do is acknowledge that everybody is going to have to give on Social Security reform and Medicare reform,\" he said. Walsh opposes the extension of unemployment benefits. He said the benefits have already been extended for too long and that attention should be paid to the cost. Following President Obama's State of the Union address, Walsh remarked that he did not believe there should be a social safety net because it is not in the Constitution.\n\nWalsh also tends rightward on social issues. On global warming, he said the science behind it was \"not definitive\" and that U.S. economic interests should come first in any discussion of climate agreements. Walsh also criticized President Obama's immigration policies, saying the president had made only token efforts toward securing the borders. In May 2011, while holding a toy alligator in his hand, Walsh announced on the House floor that he would support tough border legislation even if it involved building moats and filling them with alligators.\n\nOn abortion, he said to reporters in October 2012 that abortion is never medically necessary to save the life of the mother, saying that \"with modern technology and science, you can't find one instance\" of a medically necessary abortion. In response, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, a professional association representing over 90% of board-certified obstetrician-gynecologists, said in a statement that \"contrary to the inaccurate statements made yesterday by Rep. Joe Walsh (R-IL), abortions are necessary in a number of circumstances to save the life of a woman or to preserve her health.\"\n\nWalsh holds strongly pro-Israel views. In a May 2012 op-ed for the \"Washington Times\", Walsh opposed the two-state solution, saying it has \"failed\" and was \"insanity\"; he advocated for Israeli annexation of the Palestinian territories, arguing that the Palestinians living there could be given \"limited voting power\" within the Jewish state and encouraging them to move to Jordan. This led to accusations that Walsh advocated apartheid and the \"soft\" ethnic cleansing of Palestinians from their ancestral home. He wrote a column in \"The Daily Caller\" stating that President Obama is \"not Israel's friend\" and should not have criticized Israel for continuing to build settlements in the occupied territories. Walsh also argued that most American Jews are liberal and therefore, side with the Palestinians and vague ideas of peace, instead of with Israel. He stated that in order to achieve peace in the Middle East, the U.S. must publicly choose Israel's side, so that Palestinians will \"face the combined wrath of Israel and the United States\".\n\nIn November 2011, Walsh, along with fellow Tea Partier Ron Paul, met leader of the French National Front and anti-Islamist activist Marine Le Pen during her visit to the United States.\n\nWalsh campaigned to get Narendra Modi, then the chief minister of the Indian state of Gujarat, a diplomatic visa to the United States, which had previously been denied to him due to allegations of violations of religious freedom against Muslims during the 2002 Gujarat riots. Walsh said that Modi had \"quite a successful track record\" of fiscal responsibility, described him as \"kind of like a Tea Party free market guy in India, which I found very appealing\" and noted that he \"has been recognized across the world for establishing Gujarat as the most business-friendly state in India and is widely believed to be a serious contender for the 2014 election for Indian Prime Minister.\" Modi subsequently won the 2014 general election, becoming Prime Minister of India.\n\nWalsh supported Donald Trump's presidential candidacy, even though he did not believe Trump could win Illinois. After the election, Walsh criticized some of Trump's cabinet nominations for their connections to Goldman Sachs. Contrary to the opinions of many other conservatives, Walsh voiced support for and confidence in Robert Mueller and his Special Counsel investigation. In July 2018, Walsh rescinded his support for Trump, saying \"I will never support Trump again\" and calling him \"a danger to this country.\"\n\nIn 2018, Sacha Baron Cohen's television program \"Who Is America?\" premiered showing Walsh supporting the hoax \"kinderguardians program\" which supported training toddlers with firearms.\n\nWalsh has been married twice, and has three children and two stepchildren. His second marriage was with Helene Walsh, who became a state representative.\n\nFollowing Walsh's victory in the 2010 Republican primary, it was reported that a bank had foreclosed on his condo and he had been evicted in October 2009, but that he and his family were living in a rented house in the Chicago North Shore suburb of Winnetka at the time. A GOP spokesman said that voters would likely identify with Walsh's financial troubles. He was also reportedly facing a lawsuit by a former campaign manager who claimed Walsh owed him $20,000 for services and had federal and state tax liens in the 1980s and 1990s (all paid by 2001). Walsh explained that the major portion of the past due taxes were on a college trust fund he received from his grandfather and that neither he nor his family had been aware that the funds were taxable. He also explained that his more recent financial struggles have made him more attuned to the difficulties faced by the average constituent.\n\nIn July 2011, the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" reported that Walsh's ex-wife, Laura, was suing him for $117,437 for past due child support dating from 2005 for their three children. Walsh allegedly had told his ex-wife that he did not have the money because he was out of work; she had later seen from his campaign disclosures that he had been employed. Walsh's attorney said that Walsh did not owe \"anywhere near that amount,\" and that he had had no more problems paying child support than \"any other average guy\". Walsh and his ex-wife began working out a settlement of the disputed past due amount in late July 2011. Walsh's financial problems inspired the proposal of a bill which would forbid people owing more than $10,000 in back child support from running for office in Illinois. On April 20, 2012, a settlement was reached, and the case dismissed. As part of the settlement, Walsh issued a statement on behalf of himself and his ex-wife which read, in part, \"Having resolved these issues together and cleared up these mistakes in private, we now agree that Joe is not and was not a 'deadbeat dad' and does not owe child support.\"\n\nIn August 2011, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that Walsh lost his driving privileges from mid-April to mid-July 2011 because he let his insurance lapse. In response, Walsh criticized the \"Tribune\" for \"wast[ing] time and ink scrutinizing [his] driving record over the last 22 years rather than Washington's unsustainable spending\".\n\nOn February 1, 2013, Walsh filed a motion to terminate child support obligations, claiming that as he was now unemployed he was unable to contribute to the support of his children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50533432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50533432", "title": "Jordan Evangelical Theological Seminary", "text": "Jordan Evangelical Theological Seminary\n\nJordan Evangelical Theological Seminary (JETS) is a theological seminary in Amman, Jordan. It was founded in 1991 by Imad Shehadeh, who continues to serve as President. It is accredited by the Asia Theological Association, and offers Bachelor of Theology, Master of Arts in Biblical Studies, Master of Divinity, and Master of Theology degrees.\n"}
{"id": "31821857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31821857", "title": "Joyce Currie Little", "text": "Joyce Currie Little\n\nJoyce Currie Little is a computer scientist, engineer, and educator. She is a professor and former chairperson in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences at Towson University in Towson, Maryland.\n\nShe received a B.S. in Mathematics Education from the Northeast Louisiana University in 1957, an M.S. in Applied Mathematics from the San Diego State University in 1963, and a PhD in Educational Administration for Computing Services from the University of Maryland, College Park, in 1984.\n\nWhile in graduate school in San Diego, California, Joyce Currie Little worked in the aerospace industry as a computational test engineer. From 1957 to 1960, she developed programs to analyze data from models being tested in a wind tunnel for Convair Aircraft Corporation in San Diego. \n\nAfter completing her M.S., Little moved to Maryland and accepted a position at Goucher College teaching statistics and managing a computer center. She also began work on her Ph.D. at the University of Maryland, College Park. In 1967, she became the chairperson of the Computer and Information Systems Department at the Community College of Baltimore. She moved to Towson University in Towson, Maryland, in 1981, where she was named Chairperson of the Department of Computer & Information Sciences in 1984. She has been an active member of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) for many years, and received their Distinguished Service Award in 1992. \n\nShe received the ACM SIGCSE Award for Lifetime Service to the Computer Science Education Community for her contributions to computing in two-year colleges, certification, and professional development. \n\nDr. Little's research interests include metrics and assurance for quality in software engineering and social impact and cyber-ethics for workforce education. She has also been a strong advocate for the role of women in computing. Her current activities include a project on the evaluation of computer ethics courses in the Computer Science major at Towson University, and a project on the social impact of certification on the industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23890091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890091", "title": "Kampala International University", "text": "Kampala International University\n\nKampala International University (KIU) is a private multi-campus university in Uganda.\n\nKIU has its main campus at Kansanga, a location in Makindye Division in the south-eastern part of Kampala, Uganda's capital and largest city. The campus is approximately south-east of Kampala's central business district, along the road to Ggaba. The coordinates of the campus are 0°17'41.0\"N, 32°36'13.0\"E (Latitude:0.294722; Longitude:32.603611).\n\nKIU's second campus is located in Ishaka in Bushenyi District, approximately , by road, south-west of Kampala.\n\nKIU maintains a third campus, the KIU Dar es Salaam Constituent College, in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.\n\nKIU was founded in 2001. It received its university charter in March 2009.\n\nKIU's main campus has four constituent colleges and four schools:\n\nThis is the largest of the three campuses, hosting more than 7,000 students and over 300 academic staff.\n\nThis campus houses over 5,000 students supervised by over 200 academic staff.\n\nCertificate, diploma, undergraduate, and postgraduate programs are offered at this campus. It is predominantly a science-based institution.\n\nThe School of Health Sciences is located on the western campus. The school is one of Uganda's seven medical schools, and it was the first privately owned medical school in the country. The school offers programmes in medicine, dentistry, nursing, medical laboratory technology, education, business, and management and information technology. The school has a teaching hospital with a bed capacity of 1,200.\n\nThis campus is housed on in the Gongolamboto area in Ilala District, along Pugu Road. The campus is approximately from Julius Nyerere International Airport.\n\nIn 2013, the Ugandan National Council for Higher Education (NCHE) began an investigation into whether the 42 Doctorates of Philosophy (PhDs) awarded by KIU up to that time had met NCHE's requirements. At the end of the investigation in November 2013, NCHE declared that the PhDs were legitimate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "227108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=227108", "title": "Leadership development", "text": "Leadership development\n\nLeadership development expands the capacity of individuals to perform in leadership roles within organizations. Leadership roles are those that facilitate execution of a company’s strategy through building alignment, winning mindshare and growing the capabilities of others. Leadership roles may be formal, with the corresponding authority to make decisions and take responsibility, or they may be informal roles with little official authority (e.g., a member of a team who influences team engagement, purpose and direction; a lateral peer who must listen and negotiate through influence).\n\nLeadership development is thought to be key to business success. A study by the Center for Creative Leadership holds that 65 percent of companies with mature leadership development programs drove improved business results as compared to 6 percent of companies without such a program. Similarly, 86% of companies with leadership development programs responded rapidly to changing market conditions whereas only 52% of companies with immature programs were able to do so.\n\nTraditionally, leadership development has focused on developing the leadership abilities and attitudes of individuals.\n\nDifferent personal trait and characteristics can help or hinder a person's leadership effectiveness and require formalized programs for developing leadership competencies.\n\nClassroom-style training and associated reading for leadership development may ail from the possible divergence between knowing what to do and doing what one knows; management expert Henry Mintzberg is one person to highlight this dilemma. It is estimated that as little as 15% of learning from traditional classroom-style training results in sustained behavioral change within workplaces.\n\nThe success of leadership development efforts has been linked to three variables:\n\n\nMilitary officer-training academies, such as the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, go to great lengths to accept only candidates who show the highest potential to lead well. Personal characteristics that are associated with successful leadership development include leader motivation to learn, a high achievement drive and personality traits such as openness to experience, an internal focus of control, and self-monitoring. In order to develop individual leaders, supervisors or superiors must conduct an individual assessment.\n\nDevelopment is also more likely to occur when the design of the development program:\n\n\nAmong key concepts in leadership development one may find:\n\n\nLeadership can also be developed by strengthening the connection between, and alignment of, the efforts of individual leaders and the systems through which they influence organizational operations. This has led to a differentiation between leader development and leadership development.\n\nLeadership development can build on the development of individuals (including followers) to become leaders. In addition, it also needs to focus on the interpersonal linkages in the team.\n\nFollowing the credo of people as an organization's most valuable resource , some organizations address the development of these resources (including leadership).\n\nIn contrast, the concept of \"employeeship\" recognizes that what it takes to be a good leader is not too dissimilar to what it takes to be a good employee. Therefore, bringing the notional leader together with the team to explore these similarities (rather than focusing on the differences) brings positive results. This approach has been particularly successful in Sweden where the power distance between manager and team is small.\n\nThe development of \"high potentials\" to take over leadership when the time comes the current leadership to leave their positions is known as succession planning. This type of leadership development usually requires the extensive transfer of an individual between departments. In many multinationals, it usually requires international transfer and experience to build a future leader.\n\nSuccession planning requires a sharp focus on the organization's future and vision, in order to align leadership development with the future that the organization aspires to create. Thus successive leadership development is based not only on knowledge and history but also on a dream. For such a plan to be successful, a screening of future leadership should be based not only on \"what we know and have\" but also on \"what we aspire to become\".\n\nPersons involved in succession planning should include current leadership members who can articulate the future vision. Three critical dimensions should be considered:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47152221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47152221", "title": "London Challenge", "text": "London Challenge\n\nThe London Challenge was a school improvement programme launched by the UK's Labour Government in 2003. The policy document \"Transforming London Secondary Schools\" set out the aims of the programme, which was designed to create a \"step change\" in the performance of London secondary schools.\n\nThe initiative has been credited by Ofsted and others for a significant improvement in London's state education system. More recent studies have identified the London Challenge as one factor in several that contributed to significant enhancements in pupil outcomes.\n\nThe London Challenge programme was initially aimed at secondary schools and was intended to run until 2008. However, it was subsequently extended until 2011, and expanded to include primary schools, and two additional City Challenge areas; Greater Manchester and the Black Country.\n\nIn 2002 the British Government created a new set of policies focusing on London's state secondary schools,which were at that time performing poorly in comparison to the rest of the country. The policies were collectively known as the London Challenge and their objectives were:\n\nThe London Challenge depended on close cooperation with Local Authorities, and in particular five Key Areas were singled out for close attention, Tower Hamlets, Newham, Lewisham, Hackney, Westminster.\n\nOne of the distinctive features of London Challenge was a focus on partnership and shared purpose between schools, whilst avoiding stigmatising schools through the use of negative language. The term \"Keys to Success\" was used to identify those schools that would require the most intensive intervention. A series of \"sector led\" support mechanisms were put in place. Independent, experienced education experts, known as London Challenge Advisers, were appointed to each of the Keys to Success schools to provide tailored help. The advisers were supported by an administrative team in the Department for Education (DfE). They worked closely with experienced education professionals, appointed by the DfE, known as National Leaders of Education (NLE) or Local Leaders of Education (LLE), as well as local authority appointed School Improvement Partners (SIP) and other local authority officers to develop a bespoke intervention programmes. The cost of the support and the services brokered by the adviser came directly from the DfE. In some areas school improvement services were outsourced to consultants, though from 2007 specialist services to the Keys to Success schools were supplied by a single education consultancy company under a Challenge Service Contract.\n\nSchool to school peer support was also a feature of the London Challenge programme. Some particularly successful schools were awarded Teaching School status, giving them the remit and opportunity to support other schools in their local community. Another initiative was the annual \"Families of Schools\" report which grouped all of London's state schools into numbered families with other similar schools. This was aimed at middle and senior leaders in schools, allowing them to compare their performance with their peer schools and to share best practice on improvement initiatives, although there is no evidence that the resource was widely used for those purposes.\n\nThe London Challenge incorporated the 14-19 Pathfinders initiative which aimed to define and develop improved \"learning pathways\" for students in this age group.\n\nFor schools that needed support beyond the classroom, the Extended School concept was introduced, creating hubs for services to be offered directly to students and their families. The London Challenge also introduced the Teach First initiative to encourage highly academic graduates into the teaching profession.\n\nIn 2008 the Government announced an expansion of the London Challenge to include primary schools, and the programme was extended until 2011.\n\nThe 2008 extension of the London Challenge initiative also expanded it to include two new geographical areas – Greater Manchester and the Black Country. The programme was renamed for those areas as the City Challenge, but continued to be known as the London Challenge in the capital. The City Challenge programme was tailored to local needs, using many of the\nsame approaches adopted in the London Challenge.\n\nOfsted first reported on the impact of the London Challenge in 2006, and found that, between 2001 and 2005, London's GCSE results had improved faster in London than in England as a whole. A subsequent report in 2010 corroborated those findings, finding that the \"London Challenge has continued to improve outcomes for pupils in London’s primary and secondary schools at a faster rate than nationally. London’s secondary schools continue to perform better than those in the rest of England\".\n\nA Government commissioned report from the Institute for Policy Studies in Education, published in 2012, evaluated the outcomes of the City Challenge programme and, retrospectively the London Challenge Programme. It found that the majority of the initial targets were achieved, and while acknowledging the backdrop of wider educational initiatives concluded that the \"most plausible explanation for the greater improvement in Challenge areas is that the City Challenge programme was responsible\".\n\nA report from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation in 2014 concluded that \"during the period of the London Challenge, secondary school performance in London saw a dramatic improvement, and local authorities in inner London went from the worst performing to the best performing nationally.\" However they noted the difficulty of isolating the specific effect of the London Challenge against a wider background of education policy changes. The report's assessment of the City Challenge was more mixed \"in part because [the City Challenge areas] had less time for these practices to properly embed.\" However it was found that some positive developments had been sustained beyond the end of the City Challenge programme in 2011.\n\nAlso in 2014, the CfBT Education Trust published findings of their own investigation into the reported success of London schools during the period of the London Challenge. This concluded that this success couldn't be explained in terms of contextual advantages such as gentrification, ethnicity and opportunity. Nor could they be fully attributable to resourcing factors such as finance, teacher recruitment and school building quality, although these did help the improvements to \"flourish\". The success was, instead, attributed to the combined effect of four Government interventions: London Challenge, Teach First, the academies programme and improved support from local authorities. It was also concluded to be dependent on \"effective leadership at every level of the system\".\n\nLater the same year, research from the University of Bristol largely attributed London's improvements in pupil progress over the London Challenge period to ethnic composition rather than specific Government interventions. Nevertheless, the paper concluded that \"for other measures of attainment, the London premium is halved but remains significant.\"\n\nA subsequent report by the Centre for Analysis of Social Exclusion at the LSE demonstrated that most of the London effect could be accounted for by the improved performance in London primary schools, that there had not been any significant difference in the ethnic composition in London over the timeframe studied, and that the improved performance in primaries certainly coincided with the introduction of the National Literacy Strategies, though why they might have had more impact in London than elsewhere wasn't certain. The report is called Understanding the improved performance of disadvantaged pupils in London, and can be found online.\nThe UK's national media has shown a strong interest in the success of the London Challenge and its legacy.\n"}
{"id": "28116365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28116365", "title": "Mediterranean Journal of Educational Studies", "text": "Mediterranean Journal of Educational Studies\n\nThe Mediterranean Journal of Educational Studies is a biannual open source refereed international journal with a regional focus. It features educational research carried out in Mediterranean countries, as well as educational studies related to the diaspora of Mediterranean people worldwide. The first issue of the MJES was published in 1996 and is now available free of charge.\n\nThe journal offers a forum for theoretical debate, historical and comparative studies, research and project reports, thus facilitating dialogue in a region which has strong and varied educational traditions. There is a strong international dimension to this dialogue, given the profile of the Mediterranean in the configuration of the new world order, and the presence of Mediterranean peoples in Europe, North America and elsewhere.\n\nThe MJES is of interest to scholars, researchers and practitioners in the following fields: comparative education, foundation disciplines in education, education policy analysis, Mediterranean studies, cultural and post-colonial studies, Southern European and area studies, intercultural education, peace education, and migrant studies.\n\nGeorges Duby of the Académie Française, in the inaugural issue of the MJES, Vol.1 No.1, 1996, wrote:\n\n"}
{"id": "29923965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29923965", "title": "Ministry of Religious Affairs and Public Education", "text": "Ministry of Religious Affairs and Public Education\n\nThe Ministry of Religious Affairs and Public Education was a short-lived government ministry of the Russian Empire, directing all educational and scientific institutions and the spiritual affairs of all faiths within Russia. \n\nIt was formed by decree of Alexander I of Russia on 24 May (5 June) 1817 by merging the Ministry of National Education, the Chief Directorate of Religious Affairs of the Orthodox Faith of the Most Holy Synod, and the Chief Directorate of Religious Affairs of Foreign (i.e. non-Orthodox) Faiths. This gave it its unofficial nicknames of the \"double ministry\" and the \"twice as much ministry\". It was disbanded in 1824 due to its significant duplication of Synod's functions.\n"}
{"id": "533042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=533042", "title": "National Science Education Standards", "text": "National Science Education Standards\n\nThe National Science Education Standards (NSES) represent guidelines for the science education in primary and secondary schools in the United States, as established by the National Research Council in 1996. These provide a set of goals for teachers to set for their students and for administrators to provide professional development. The NSES influence various states' own science learning standards (such as the Massachusetts Frameworks), and statewide standardized testing.\n\nThe science standards is only one of a number of reforms organized around the principles of outcomes-based education. The mathematics counterpart are the controversial NCTM standards, which also de-emphasize knowledge of disconnected facts and content in favor of context-dependent critical thinking skills and process. Progressive education seeks to reform traditional education, taking into account current understandings of human learning.\n\nThe content of these standards is based heavily on a specific model of learning, constructivism (learning theory). Like reform mathematics, which is distinguished by an emphasis on building on what a child already knows and understands, the standards intend to update the methods of science education to achieve greater effectiveness with children. The goals of the standards include:\n\n\nThe intended purpose of the standards is to define teaching methods which apply to all students, regardless of age, gender, cultural or ethnic background, disabilities, aspirations, or interest and motivation in science, recognizing that different students will achieve understanding in different ways, and some students will achieve different degrees of depth and breadth of understanding depending on interest, ability, and context. However, the standards\nexpect that all students can develop the knowledge and skills described in the standards.\n\nThe goal of scientific literacy includes inquiry, history and nature of science, personal and social perspectives of science, science, and technology, in addition to the science domains of life science, physical science, and earth and space science. Programs defined according to these standards should be developmentally appropriate, interesting, and relevant to students’ lives.\n\nThe NSES are organized into six categories:\n\n\nMany critics of standards-based education reform and reform mathematics are also critical of the emphasis of the standards on process and inquiry-based science rather than learning of facts. Science assessments such as WASL in Washington state contain very little factual content, and most assessment is based on the ability of students as young as the fifth grade to construct and interpret science experiments. By contrast, previous generations of high school and even college students were only expected to participate in, rather than design science experiments from scratch, complete with a list of materials. The principles of the standards are similar to controversial approaches taken to mathematics and language arts which de-emphasize basic skills traditionally taught in elementary school as being inappropriate to the ability level of some students. Yet content and skills that were traditionally taught at the college level, requiring \"higher order\" and \"critical thinking\" are brought down to K-12 to \"raise standards\".\n\nThe Five Biggest Ideas in Science, Wynn & Wiggins, 1997 and cited in Understanding by Design, Wiggins and McTighe, 2005. 9.67.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49929606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49929606", "title": "OpenClassrooms", "text": "OpenClassrooms\n\nOpenClassrooms is an online education platform for vocational training, providing courses in IT, technology, entrepreneurship, and digital skills.\n\nCourses are conducted fully online, through a mix of video resources, online reading, real-life projects and individual mentoring sessions.\n\nFounded in 2013 by Pierre Dubuc and Mathieu Nebra, OpenClassrooms now has 2.5 million users worldwide and offers courses in English, French and Spanish. The company's mission is to ‘\"make education accessible\"’\n\nStudents can choose to follow online courses in subjects ranging from Javascript to Product Management, or pursue internationally recognized degree programs.\n\nOpenClassrooms offers 1000+ courses focusing on in-demand skills and ranging from entrepreneurship, digital marketing to web development.\n\nSince 2015, OpenClassrooms also offers what it calls learning paths. A learning path relies on real-life projects and mentorship. Additionally, students have access to courses within modules in order to get all the resources that they need.\n\nAt the end of each module, the student is asked to complete a project that is then assessed by a mentor.\n\nWhen the student has completed all their projects, their work is assessed by a jury. If the session is successful, the student is then awarded an internationally recognized diploma.\n\nOpenClassrooms currently has 12 available degree programs in French and 7 in English (Front-end web development, Ruby development, Android development, iOS development, full-stack web development, UX design, product management). Program take from 6 to 12 months to complete and the level of the program ranges from bachelor's-level to master's-level.\n\nOpenClassrooms operates on a freemium basis.\n\nA user can register on OpenClassrooms for free and follow all courses on the platform. The number of videos a user can watch is, however, limited to 5 per week.\n\nA user can sign up for a Premium Solo membership (costing €20 per month) and have access to unlimited videos as well as earn certificates.\n\nA user can sign up for a Premium Plus membership (costing from €300 per month) and follow a structured learning path consisting of projects, dedicated mentoring sessions and a state-endorsed degree at the end.\n\nOpenClassrooms is an official private distance learning establishment registered with the Board of Education in Paris, France that grants its own degrees as well as those of other academic partners.\n\nUpon completion of their studies and validation of their skills by an academic jury, the student will earn a bachelor's-level or master's-level diploma in the corresponding field of study.\n\nFor instance, the \"front-end web development program\" is at level 6 on the EQF (European Qualifications Framework). Thanks to the Bologna Process, signed by 50 countries, the diploma is recognized by all participating countries, notably in Europe.\n\nEach path is the subject of a registration application with the National Directory of Professional Certifications (RNCP), via the National Commission of Professional Certifications (CNCP), in order for the level of the diploma to be recognized by the State.\n\nThe origins of OpenClassrooms go back to 1999, when Mathieu Nebra, helped by Pierre Dubuc, launched a community site for tutorials called \"Le site du Zéro\". Its aim was to help young people to learn programming languages.\n\nIn 2007, the site became a company, which offers online courses, MOOCs, and learning paths on a freemium basis. These courses are created either in house, or in partnership with universities, such as École polytechnique, and companies, such as IBM.\n\nIn October 2015, OpenClassrooms signed a deal with the French Government which gives free Premium Solo memberships (€20 per month) to all unemployed people.\n\nIn November 2016, OpenClassrooms launched its first bachelor's degree in English in Web Development, recognized internationally.\n\nIn December 2016, OpenClassrooms signed a deal with Morocco's (Agence nationale de promotion de l'emploi et des compétences) and offered free Premium Solo memberships to job seekers\n\nBy 2017, the number of OpenClassrooms user accounts reached 2 million, with the number of unique visitors reaching 3.5 million per month.\n\nIn March 2017, OpenClassrooms signed a deal with Tunisia's (Agence nationale pour l’emploi et le travail indépendant) and offered free Premium Solo memberships to job seekers.\n\nIn April 2017, OpenClassrooms launched Job Guarantee in France which states that if students do not find employment within six months after graduating from OpenClassrooms, their tuition fees will be refunded. The company launched this internationally in July 2017.\n\nIn June 2017, OpenClassrooms launched a partnership program with Capgemini, one of the world's largest IT consulting, outsourcing and professional services companies. This new program is called ‘online apprenticeship’ and aims to build fully online, company-tailored curricula, source candidates, provide on-the-job training, and award them with a bachelor's or master's degree\n\nIn 2015, Mathieu Nebra was named among MIT Innovators Under 35 by MIT Technology Review. In 2016, Pierre Dubuc became one of the Forbes 30 Under 30, in the category \"social entrepreneurship\".\n\nIn May 2016, OpenClassrooms won the ACSEL’R award for digital transformation.\n\nIn November 2016, co-founder Pierre Dubuc presented his vision of the education of the future at the Young Leaders session during the World Policy Conference 2016.\n\nIn July 2017, OpenClassrooms was one of the finalists at the EdTechXGlobal Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "27950237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27950237", "title": "Peer-mediated instruction", "text": "Peer-mediated instruction\n\nPeer-mediated instruction (PMI) is an approach in special education where peers of the target students are trained to provide necessary tutoring in educational, behavioral, and/or social concerns.(Chan et al., 2009). In PMI, peers may mediate by modeling appropriate behavior themselves, using prompting procedures to elicit appropriate behavior from the target students, and reinforcing appropriate behavior when it occurs. The peer tutors are chosen from the target students' classrooms, trained to mediate and closely observed during mediation. Among the advantages noted to the technique, it takes advantage of the positive potential of peer pressure and may integrate target students more fully in their peer group. Conversely, it is time consuming to implement and presents challenges in making sure that the peers follow proper techniques. However, studies have suggested it may be an effective technique for a wide range of students, including those with autism spectrum disorders.\n\nA student or students will be chosen from the target student's classroom to serve as a peer tutor. Garrison-Harrell et al. (as cited in Chan et al., 2009) suggested a systematic way to choosing the peers to be involved in the treatment based on social status and teacher judgment. Students were asked to list three peers they would like to play with on the playground, three peers they would invite to a party, and three peers they consider to be good friends. Teachers reviewed the top candidates, and selected the tutors based on social skills, language skills, school attendance and classroom behavior.\n\nThe student or students chosen as peers must be properly coached before the peer relationship begins, both to understand the importance of the intervention and the methods which should be used. Instructors may model behaviors to the peer tutors and may role play with the peer tutors, allowing the peer tutors to experience both parts in the PMI relationship. Other methods for training could include visual aids, reinforcement for correct implementation, instruction manuals and video instructions. Once the PMI relationship begins, the teacher provides on-going feedback, watching the peer at all times while the intervention is being used. (Chan et al., 2009).\n\nThere are advantages of using PMI as an intervention strategy. First, there is never a shortage of peers to use, especially when implementing an intervention in a school or classroom. Second, students are influenced through observational learning by what they see their peers doing. Third, students are often less intimidated by a peer than they are a teacher, which makes instruction and feedback from peers potentially more effective. Fourth, it may not only offer short-term intervention benefits, but can also strengthen the target student's social ties within the classroom. Finally, research has been done with many different types of learners, including students with learning disabilities, behavior disorders and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which show that PMI may be effective for a wide range of students (Fuchs & Fuchs, 2005; Flood, Wilder, Flood & Masuda, 2002). \n\nIn 2009, \"Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders\" published a paper by Chan \"et al.\" that concluded that PMI is a potentially effective intervention approach for students with Autism disorders.\n\nVarying forms of peer-mediated instruction and interventions have been conducted in a great range of settings over the decades. Research has been conducted in educational and non-educational environments with positive outcomes in each. It is important to note that PMII strategies are not restricted or inclusive to education or special education, but have been found to be effective in each-as well as inclusive classroom settings. The following characteristics have been identified by Kulik & Kulik (1992), as central for successful implementation of peer-mediated instruction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23948807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23948807", "title": "Qualifying cross country", "text": "Qualifying cross country\n\nQualifying Cross Country, also abbreviated QXC, is a flight training standard. Depending on the license type and country's regulatory requirements, it is generally a flight carried out solo, near the end of student training towards a Private Pilots License (PPL) or Private Ultralight Pilot license. Normally the student would be expected to plan a triangular course navigation with one leg more than a specified distance and with one or more landings away from the home airfield.\n\nThe QXC is considered by many pilots to be the single most challenging part of gaining the first pilots license.\n"}
{"id": "28312702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28312702", "title": "RUM General Library", "text": "RUM General Library\n\nThe RUM General Library () is the main library for the University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez. It consists of a main library and a specialized collection.\n\nThe Mayagüez Campus General library building was inaugurated in 1963. It was designed by Henry Klumb. The main library has an area of approximately and has three floors.\n\nThe Mayagüez Campus General Library serves the local campus community as well as residents of Mayagüez and nearby towns. It fully supports UPRM education and research mission and objectives by providing adequate library and information resources, facilities and services.\n\nThe library is divided in three principal areas: Technical Services, Services to the Public and Technological Services.\n\nUPRM library holdings include 215,830 volumes; 5,259 journals; 263,982 microfiches; 12,719 microcards; 19,486 microfilms; 561,641 government documents; 949 films; 8,149 maps; 8,458 sound recordings; 606 musical scores; 375 sound magnetic tapes; 4,550 videocassettes; 5,109 CD/DVDs; 3,648 theses; 7.5 million United States patents, and 4 million United States-issued trademarks.\n\nThe library is a selective depository for publications of the U.S. government and one of the coordinating agencies of the Puerto Rico Census Data Center under the Planning Board of Puerto Rico. It serves as depository for the U.S. Census Bureau publications. The library has been a member of the Patent and Trademark Depository Library Program of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office since March 1995. (It the only library outside the continental United States that is a member of that organization.)\n\nIt has a seating capacity of 774, eight individual study rooms for graduate students and faculty, eight study rooms for group discussions and collaborative work, a computer lab with 57 computers, and two library instruction classrooms. Also, it has a conference room and two smaller meeting rooms.\n"}
{"id": "20754815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20754815", "title": "Rod Machado", "text": "Rod Machado\n\nRod Machado is a pilot and author of aviation flight training materials. He is ATPL rated, and a member of the Aviation Speakers Bureau.\n\nRod Machado was born in the San Francisco Bay Area in 1953. He began flying at 16 after selling his motorcycle, and did his first solo flight at 17. He subsequently became a flight instructor, and earned all the ratings up to ATP, including private pilot certificate, instrument rating, and Commercial Pilot Certificate, as well as several type ratings. Machado currently flies a Cessna 150.\n\nMachado is also an eager runner as well as holding black belts in both the disciplines of Tae Kwon Do and Hapkido as also having trained over a decade in the Brazilian-based Gracie Jujitsu. Due in part to his martial arts interest and speaking experience, he was featured as an analyst at the first Ultimate Fighting Championship, held in Denver, Colorado in 1993.\n\nMachado's books include:\n\nRod Machado is the flight-instructor voice that narrates user-interactive lesson modules in \"Microsoft Flight Simulator 2000\", \"Microsoft Flight Simulator 2002\", \"\" and \"Microsoft Flight Simulator X\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9193881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9193881", "title": "School Teachers' Pay and Conditions Document", "text": "School Teachers' Pay and Conditions Document\n\nThe School Teachers' Pay and Conditions Document (STPCD) is an annually-published document which forms a part of the contract of all teachers and head teachers in maintained schools in England and Wales. The document is binding on all maintained schools and local education authorities.\n\nThe current version of the STPCD is formed of four sections, although the document itself is actually included in section 2. The document is accompanied by an explanatory introduction and statutory guidance.\n\nThe introduction of the document sets out its legal status, and gives summary details of key changes to the document in its most recent version.\n\nSection two is the main legal document, which sets out the key pay and conditions arrangements for teachers. Although sections vary, recent documents have been formed of 12 parts, outlines of which are listed:\n\nThis sets out the commencement arrangements for the document, and gives a detailed glossary of definitions for terms used within the document.\n\nThis sets out the context of the document, including the need for teachers' pay to be reviewed annually, and setting requirements on schools to have a pay policy.\n\nThese parts set out the arrangements for the pay of head teachers, deputy head teachers, assistant head teacher, qualified teachers and unqualified teachers, including arrangements for performance related pay, teaching and learning responsibility awards and other supplementary pay awards\n\nThese parts relate to the conditions under which teachers and school leaders are employed, including setting out the number of days to be worked, and the number of hours which teachers may be directed to work. Notably, it also includes a clause which requires a teacher to \"work such reasonable additional hours as may be needed to enable him to discharm m \nge effectively his professional duties\"\n\nThese parts also detail the arrangements for planning, preparation and assessment time - that is, the allocation of time which must be set aside for teachers' planning and assessment during the school day, and during which time they cannot be required to teach pupils.\n\nThis section gives general guidance for employers and employees on the application of the document.\n\nThis section gives guidance on recent changes to teachers' pay and conditions since the introduction of the National Workload Agreement between the government and unions. This agreement saw the removal of administrative work from teachers' responsibilities, and introduced compulsory non-contact time for all teachers.\n\nThe content of each new document is formed following proposals from the School Teachers' Review Body. The body makes recommendations to the secretary of state, having received evidence from various bodies, including the secretary of state, teaching unions, and the Department for Children, Schools and Families.\n\nEach year, the document is constructed by the Department for Children, Schools and Families outlining the pay and conditions of teachers in schools. It must then be enacted by secondary legislation, and this too is produced annually in the name of Secretary of State for Education and Skills. The Statutory Instrument is currently issued under the provisions of the Education Act 2002.\n\nThe secondary legislation usually takes the form of a statutory instrument entitled \"The Education (School Teachers' Pay and Conditions) Order\". This document revokes the previous year's document, replacing it with the new version. The legislation is normally brought in during August of each year, coming into effect on 1 September before new school terms start.\n\n"}
{"id": "2497457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2497457", "title": "School of Electrotechnics Zagreb", "text": "School of Electrotechnics Zagreb\n\nSchool of Electrotechnics Zagreb () is a school specialised for electro-technicians, computer technicians and technicians for electro-engineering. It was founded in 1959 as \"Center for educating \"Rade Končar\"\". In 1991 the school changed its name to School of Electrotechnics which is still its name. Director of school is Ivo Klarić and his assistant is Stjepan Novoselac.\n\n"}
{"id": "2004102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004102", "title": "Slam book", "text": "Slam book\n\nA slam book is a notebook (commonly the spiral-bound type) which is passed among children and teenagers. The keeper of the book starts by posing a question (which may be on any subject) and the book is then passed round for each contributor to fill in their own answer to the question.\n\nSlam books were also a source of bullying between students—where students \"lived in fear\" of the \"biting comments\" written anonymously under their names, \"on the order of what today might be a Tweet or a Facebook comment\". A slam book containing cruel comments was featured in episode 3.20 (\"Kids Can Be Cruel\") of the 1980s TV show \"Facts of Life\". \n\nOne early reference to slam books can be found in the November 18, 1928 issue of The Central New Jersey Home News where it was reported as a new fad among New Brunswick high school students. It was defined in \"The Vocabulary of Jazzdom\" in 1922 as \"a diary in which you \"knock\" your friends.\" .\n\nOne newspaper article from 1930 argued that slam books could be a great thing for humanity. \"Psychology, industry and the ghastly exposure to the late war have changed [the Victorian era's faux veneer of sentimentality and taboos]. We have learned the price of sentimentality. The youngster's of today are facing life and themselves as is.\"\n\nIn general, however, slam books were seen in a negative light. A slam book was briefly the focus in the murder investigation of Carole Lee Kensinger in 1948. \n\nSlam books crossed racial barriers and were popular among African American high school communities in the 1950s. And the books were not limited to the US. In 2005, friends created a slam book as a going away present for 16 year old Richa Thapa who emigrated from Nepal to the US. In 1999, Claire Morris-Dobbie launched \"SLAM: A New Way To Tell The truth\", a pre-made \"slam book\" with online tie in features in an attempt to combine nostalgia with the growing World Wide Web. It was billed as a \"kinder and gentler\" slam book for teens and pre-teens with the goal of encouraging them to think and communicate, write and express themselves. \n\nSlam books can also exist in virtual formats. Web-based slam book sites have attracted controversy for hosting virtual slam books in which individuals or organizations are targeted for criticism that constitutes bullying or defamation.\n\nSome point to slam books as the analog precursor to anonymous trolling and negative social interactions on Twitter and Facebook. \"\"Passing handwritten notes or \"slam books\" has since been replaced with online tools such as IM, websites, blogs, cell phones etc.\"\"\n\nSome of the virtual slambook websites are listed below:\n"}
{"id": "4385633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4385633", "title": "Special Patrol Insertion/Extraction", "text": "Special Patrol Insertion/Extraction\n\nThe Special Patrol Insertion/Extraction (SPIE) system was developed as a means to rapidly insert and/or extract a reconnaissance patrol from an area that does not permit a helicopter to land. SPIE has application for rough terrain as well as water inserts/extracts. It is an adaptation of the Vietnam War-era STABO rig.\n\nGenerally, the SPIE rope is lowered into the pickup area from a hovering helicopter. Patrol personnel, each wearing a harness with an attached carabiner, hook up to a D-ring inserted in the SPIE rope. A second safety line is attached to a second D-ring located above the first. The helicopter lifts vertically from an extract zone until the rope and personnel are clear of obstructions, then proceeds in forward flight to a secure insert zone. The rope and personnel are treated as an external load and airspeeds, altitudes, and oscillations must be monitored.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard uses a similar technique to board ships when speed and stealth are required.\n\nThe Special Personnel Insertion/Extraction was first designed by the Marines of 1st Force Reconnaissance Company, the Marine division's 1st Reconnaissance Battalion, and the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing riggers. They created and combat tested several versions of the SPIE before it was officially recommended to be tested. In May 1970, the commanding general of 3rd Marine Amphibious Force coordinated input from the 1st Marine Division and his 1st Marine Air Wing. A request was sent to the Commandant of the Marine Corps and to the Development Center for certification of the SPIE rig and to its safety and use.\n\nThe parachute test jumpers of the Naval Parachute Unit (NPU) and Marine Corps, all qualified parachutist designers and engineers, assembled together at El Centro for the initial testing and evaluation of the SPIE rig. After a few test dummies were tried, Marine Major Bruce F. Meyers, along with four Navy NPU parachutist engineers, successfully attempted the first flight on the SPIE assembly.\n"}
{"id": "37426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37426", "title": "Squeak", "text": "Squeak\n\nThe Squeak programming language is a dialect of Smalltalk. It is object-oriented, class-based, and reflective.\n\nIt was derived directly from Smalltalk-80 by a group at Apple Computer that included some of the original Smalltalk-80 developers. Its development was continued by the same group at Walt Disney Imagineering, where it was intended for use in internal Disney projects. Later on the group moved on to be supported by HP labs, SAP Labs and most recently Y Combinator.\n\nSqueak is cross-platform. Programs produced on one platform run bit-identical on all other platforms, and versions are available for many platforms including the obvious Windows/macOS/linux versions. The Squeak system includes code for generating a new version of the virtual machine (VM) on which it runs. It also includes a VM simulator written in Squeak. For these reasons, it is easily ported. \n\nDan Ingalls, an important contributor to the Squeak project, wrote the paper upon which Squeak is built and constructed the architecture for five generations of the Smalltalk language.\n\nSqueak incorporates many of the elements Alan Kay proposed in the Dynabook concept, which he formulated in the 1960s. Kay is an important contributor to the Squeak project.\n\nSqueak includes four user interface frameworks:\n\nMany Squeak contributors collaborate on Open Cobalt, a free and open source virtual world browser and construction toolkit application which is built on Squeak.\n\nSqueak is also used in the Nintendo ES operating system and for implementing the Scratch\nprogramming language for beginning programmers. In May 2011 the OpenQwaq virtual conferencing and collaboration system based on Squeak, an open source release of Teleplace, was announced on the Teleplace blog.\n\nSqueak 4.0 and later may be downloaded at no cost, including source code, as a prebuilt virtual machine image licensed under the MIT License, with the exception of some of the original Apple code, which is governed by the Apache License.\n\nOriginally, Apple actually released Squeak under a license called the \"Squeak License\". While source code was available and modification permitted, the Squeak License contained an indemnity clause that prevented it from qualifying as true free and open-source software.\n\nIn 2006, Apple relicensed Squeak twice. First, in May, Apple used its own Apple Public Source License, which satisfies the Free Software Foundation's concept of a Free Software License and has attained official approval from the Open Source Initiative as an Open Source License. The Apple Public Source License, as it turns out, fails to pass the third standard that Free and Open Source Software licenses are held to: the Debian Free Software Guidelines promulgated by the Debian project, an influential volunteer-run Linux distribution. To enable inclusion of Etoys in the One Laptop Per Child project, a second relicensing was undertaken using the Apache License. At this point, an effort was also made to address the issue of code contributed by members of the Squeak community, which it was not in Apple's power to unilaterally relicense.\n\nFor each contribution made under the Squeak License since 1996, a relicensing statement was obtained authorizing distribution under the MIT license, and finally in March 2010, the end result was released as Squeak 4.0, now under combined MIT and Apache licenses.\n\nThe \"Squeak virtual machine\" is a family of virtual machines (VMs) used in Smalltalk programming language implementations. They are an essential part of any Smalltalk implementation. All are open-source software. The current VM is a high performance dynamic translation system. The relevant code is maintained on GitHub at OpenSmalltalk\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38955147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38955147", "title": "Suman Sahai", "text": "Suman Sahai\n\nSuman Sahai is an Indian activist and the founder of Gene Campaign.\n\nSahai obtained a Ph.D. from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute in 1975. She then successively worked at the University of Alberta, University of Chicago, and the University of Heidelberg, where she obtained her habilitation in human genetics. According to the Web of Science, Sahai has published over 40 articles, mostly on policy issues relating to genetically modified organisms, which have been cited over 150 times, giving her an h-index of 7. She is director of the NGO, Gene Campaign.\n\n\nIn April 2013, Sahai was shown to have committed plagiarism in her habilitation thesis, which had been submitted to the University of Heidelberg in 1986. In addition, she was accused of presenting herself as being or having been a professor at that University, without ever actually having occupied such a position. On 14 April 2013, the University of Heidelberg confirmed that plagiarism had taken place, that Sahai has no right to call herself a professor of the University of Heidelberg, and that in consequence Sahai had agreed to renounce her \"venia legendi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44739748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44739748", "title": "TAG Manchester", "text": "TAG Manchester\n\nTAG Manchester is an archaeology conference organized by the Theoretical Archaeology Group that took place in Manchester from December 15 to 17, 2014.\n\nhttp://journal.antiquity.ac.uk|url=http://journal.antiquity.ac.uk/antplus/\n"}
{"id": "38020871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38020871", "title": "Tabitha and Napoleon D'umo", "text": "Tabitha and Napoleon D'umo\n\nTabitha A. D'umo (née Cortopassi; born September 11, 1973) and Napoleon Buddy D'umo (born October 17, 1968), known together as Nappytabs, are Emmy Award-winning married choreographers who are often credited with developing \"lyrical\" hip-hop. They are best known for their choreography on the television show \"So You Think You Can Dance\" and for being supervising choreographers and executive producers of \"America's Best Dance Crew\". Since being with the former, their choreography has received both praise and criticism. They own Nappytabs urban dancewear and have been working in the dance industry since 1996.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon grew up on opposite coasts of the United States and met in the early 1990s as students at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. They began their dance career together while still in college by choreographing industrial musicals for large corporations with the hip-hop dance company Culture Shock. After moving to Los Angeles in 1999, they started teaching hip-hop classes at the Edge Performing Arts Center. They took additional jobs choreographing for professional sports dance teams and back-up dancing for musical artists. In 2003, they joined the faculty of Monsters of Hip Hop dance convention.\n\nTheir work was introduced to mainstream audiences in 2008 when they became supervising choreographers on \"America's Best Dance Crew\" and resident choreographers on \"So You Think You Can Dance\". It was on the later show that their lyrical hip-hop choreography style gained exposure. The pair's career progressed to providing creative direction for tours and live events by Christina Aguilera, Ricky Martin, Celine Dion, and Jennifer Lopez. They continued to develop their dancewear line by breaking out of its previously online-only presence and opening a physical store location in 2010.\n\nFrom television and concerts, their move into theater occurred gradually. In 2010, they directed the JabbaWockeeZ's \"MÜS.I.C.\" stage show and began to work with Cirque du Soleil; they choreographed \"Viva Elvis\" and were contributing choreographers for \"\". They continued to establish themselves in television as choreographers for Madonna's Super Bowl halftime performance. By 2015, they had choreographed several K-pop music videos for artists such as TVXQ, EXO, and BoA. Aside from their choreography, creative direction, and dancewear line, Tabitha and Napoleon continue to teach hip-hop classes at dance studios and on the convention circuit. They have also been involved with charity work for organizations that support the arts.\n\nNapoleon was born October 17, 1968. He was raised in Victorville, California as one of three siblings. He learned b-boying, locking, and popping by traveling to Los Angeles and frequenting the b-boy scene; he was eventually cast as an extra in the movie \"\" in 1984. After Napoleon graduated from Apple Valley High School, he joined the army and worked as a surgeon's assistant while stationed in Germany. Once discharged, he attended the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV) where he majored in molecular biology and started taking jazz and modern dance classes.\n\nTabitha was born September 11, 1973, and grew up as an only child in Galloway Township, New Jersey. Her mother enrolled her in jazz dance classes when she was young. Since there were no hip-hop classes, Tabitha learned by watching music videos and participating in her school's cheer and dance teams. She cites Michael Jackson, Janet Jackson, and Paula Abdul as influences. While cheerleading at Absegami High School, Tabitha earned \"All-American\" status at an NCA camp and got the opportunity to perform in the Aloha Bowl in Hawaii. After Tabitha graduated, she moved to Nevada in 1991 to attend UNLV where she majored in communications and started taking formal hip-hop dance classes. It was there at a party that she met Napoleon.\n\nWhile hanging out with her cheerleading and dance team friends, Tabitha invited Napoleon and his body building friends to come to a casual practice session and do stunt work with them. Napoleon and his friends eventually attended a formal practice session on campus, and the cheerleading coach was so impressed with their work that they all received full scholarships to join the team. Tabitha and Napoleon started dating in 1994, but their professional partnership and dance career did not start until 1996 when they began teaching hip-hop classes together at the Las Vegas Athletic Club. Since the beginning of their career, they have always worked together including their first choreography job and the first dance class they taught.\n\nWhile Tabitha and Napoleon were still in college, they were accepted into the dance company Culture Shock where they met members of the JabbaWockeeZ before the JabbaWockeeZ became a crew. In addition to going to school and being a part of Culture Shock, they both maintained part-time jobs. Together they worked at Bunker Dance Center in Las Vegas teaching hip-hop classes. Separately Napoleon worked as a personal trainer and Tabitha worked at the Rio Hotel and Casino. While dancing with Culture Shock, Tabitha created demo reels of the company to send to event organizers who were having conventions in Las Vegas. Tabitha and Napoleon used this method to book choreography jobs and it was during this time that they honed their lyrical hip-hop style. Through Culture Shock, they were hired to choreograph several industrial musicals for casinos and corporations such as Nike, Levi, Redken, Matrix Hair, and MAC. They eventually worked their way up from company dancers to become the artistic directors. As Tabitha and Napoleon's college graduation was approaching they decided to change their plans from a job in public relations and medical school respectively to a career in the dance industry.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon were married April 19, 1998. In 1999, they moved to Los Angeles to expand their opportunities. Upon arriving in L.A., they taught hip-hop classes at the Edge Performing Arts Center. They found extra work as back-up dancers for Beyoncé, Toni Braxton, Missy Elliott, Monica, Timbaland, Sisqó, and Destiny's Child whom they went on tour with in 2002. \n\nTheir move from dancing into choreography occurred gradually. Jobs included choreographing performances for NFL and NBA dance teams including the Dallas Cowboys, Denver Broncos, Chicago Bulls, and Orlando Magic. In November 2002, they made the cover of \"Dance Spirit\" magazine. They were profiled with seven other choreographers and interviewed about what it takes to make it as a dancer in Los Angeles. In 2003, Napoleon started teaching classes with Monsters of Hip Hop dance convention. Tabitha joined him later and they are still permanent faculty members to this day.\nIn 2005, Tabitha and Napoleon started Nappytabs dancewear. They cite the lack of appropriate dancewear for the hip-hop dance community as inspiration for the company. Early in its production, Tabitha sewed the clothes herself. The Nappytabs logo began as a yin and yang like symbol with an \"n\" and a \"t\" overlapping in the middle. The word itself—Nappytabs—is a combination of Napoleon (Nappy) and Tabitha's (Tab) nicknames. Contrary to popular belief, the name 'Nappytabs' started as their clothing line first. They did not call themselves Nappytabs, and the word being a nickname to refer to both of them did not start until they became choreographers on \"So You Think You Can Dance\".\n\nTabitha and Napoleon began creative directing stage shows and concerts in the mid-2000s. In 2006, they served as assistant directors for Christina Aguilera’s \"Back to Basics Tour\". In 2007, they were also assistant directors for Ricky Martin’s \"\". Both tours were directed by Jamie King who is known primarily for his work with Madonna.\n\nThe same year, Tabitha appeared in two fitness DVDs. She was the host/instructor of \"Drop it with Dance\". The video is split into six 10-minute routines that gradually increase in difficulty; movements from all six routines are combined in the finale \"Showtime\" segment. She also appeared in \"Rock Your Body\", which was hosted by Jamie King.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon became supervising choreographers for the inaugural season of \"America's Best Dance Crew\" in 2008. They were responsible for choreographing group routines, coming up with dance challenges, and assisting the crews as needed with polishing their performances. Also in 2008, they took on hosting duties for \"Rock the Reception\". On the show, they created wedding dances for engaged couples and their wedding party to perform at the reception. The participants were real life couples with no dance experience. In addition to \"America's Best Dance Crew\" and \"Rock the Reception\", they joined the choreography and judging team on the fourth season of \"So You Think You Can Dance\". It was on this show that their lyrical hip-hop choreography style gained mainstream exposure.\n\nLyrical hip-hop is a fluid and more interpretive version of standard hip-hop often danced to downtempo rap music or R&B music. The term itself was coined by choreographer and producer Adam Shankman in reference to a routine choreographed by Tabitha and Napoleon to Leona Lewis' song \"Bleeding Love\". \"Bleeding Love\" was nominated for a 2009 Emmy Award for Outstanding Choreography. After the season ended, Tabitha and Napoleon directed the 2008 \"So You Think You Can Dance Tour\". They continued creative directing several other concerts throughout the remainder of the year.\n\nThey teamed up with Jamie King again and served as assistant directors for Celine Dion's \"Taking Chances Tour.\" They directed \"Monsters of Hip Hop: The Show\" and \"America's Best Dance Crew Live\" which featured dance crews JabbaWockeeZ, Super Cr3w, Fanny Pak, ASIID, and Breaksk8. OMG! gave the concert a positive review stating that the five crews represented a good mix of styles and that the concert brought the best parts of the show to the stage.\n\nIn January 2009, the Nappytabs dancewear website launched which began the start of online clothing sales. The first version of their website was designed and maintained by Ryan Cyphert's 3nine Design media company. Cyphert is also a professional dancer and a colleague of Tabitha and Napoleon. At the time the website launched they all were faculty members at Shock the Intensive dance convention. When Tabitha and Napoleon joined \"So You Think You Can Dance\", dancers on the show, as well as on \"America's Best Dance Crew\" and \"Dancing With the Stars\", were already wearing their clothing line during rehearsals. Some of the sponsors were not happy about it and wanted to cover the Nappytabs logo on the clothing. In response to this, judge and executive producer Nigel Lythgoe decided to start calling Tabitha and Napoleon \"Nappytabs\" during the show so that viewers who looked them up on Google would find their store's website.\n\nIn April 2009, Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed two couples' routines and a group routine for the second season of \"So You Think You Can Dance Australia\". The \"Arab Money\" hip-hop routine they choreographed received positive reviews from the judges but their \"Dead and Gone\" \"lyrical\" hip-hop routine, which was performed later on the same episode, received the most praise. Bonnie Lythgoe called it the \"top routine of the night\". Jason Coleman added \"the choreography [was] absolutely spectacular\" and Matt Lee said it was \"...probably the best routine in the series.\" While in Australia, Tabitha and Napoleon were judges at the 2009 Australian Hip Hop Championships in Sydney.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon choreographed several television specials later in the year. In September, they choreographed the opening dance sequence on the season seven premiere of \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\". The routine featured both DeGeneres and the top ten dancers from season five of \"So You Think You Can Dance\". At the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards, they choreographed a routine honoring dance that featured Karina Smirnoff and Maksim Chmerkovskiy from \"Dancing With The Stars\"; Katee Shean, Mark Kanemura, and Joshua Allen from \"So You Think You Can Dance\"; and four members of Quest Crew—the winners of season three of \"America's Best Dance Crew\". They finished the year with choreography for Carrie Underwood's \"All-Star Holiday Special\" and Jennifer Lopez' performance on \"Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve with Ryan Seacrest\".\n\nIn 2010, Tabitha and Napoleon returned to \"So You Think You Can Dance\" (SYTYCD) for season seven and started to work with four different productions of Cirque du Soleil. In February, they provided choreography for Cirque du Soleil's \"Viva Elvis\" show at the Aria hotel in Las Vegas. They also choreographed a \"Viva Elvis\" guest appearance on \"Dancing with the Stars\". \n\nOn SYTYCD, they choreographed routines for the contestants as well as one guest performance for the cast of Cirque du Soleil's \"Beatles Love\". They worked with \"Love\" again at the NHL awards and with their sister Cirque productions \"Kà\", for a guest performance on \"America's Got Talent\", and \"Mystère\", for a guest performance on \"Lopez Tonight\". After SYTYCD ended, they appeared as guest choreographers on the Ukrainian version of the show called \"Everybody Can Dance!/Танцюють всі!\".\nAside from choreography, Tabitha and Napoleon continued to develop and expand their dancewear line. In May, they opened the Nappytabs store and dance studio in the North Hollywood Arts District. Although they design their own clothing, they commissioned some print and t-shirt designs from Alex Lodermeier who has also designed for Propr, a clothing line owned by Ben Harper, David Arquette, and David Bedwell. Through Nappytabs, they also started to sponsor The Pulse on Tour dance convention and the \"Industry Voice\" online newsletter. Their clothing appears in independent R&B singer John Gillette's music video \"All Bad\". Tabitha was a featured dancer in the video and Napoleon made a cameo appearance at the end.\n\nAlso in May, the JabbaWockeeZ' \"MÜS.I.C.\" (pronounced MUSE-i-see) stage show, which Tabitha and Napoleon directed, opened at the MGM Grand Las Vegas hotel. \"MÜS.I.C.\" was the first hip-hop dance stage show on the Las Vegas Strip. The show was 90 minutes long involving dancing, comedy, and magic. In October, \"MÜS.I.C.\" moved to the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino. At the Monte Carlo premiere, the JabbaWockeeZ brought Tabitha on stage for a cameo appearance.\n\nIn February 2011, Tabitha and Napoleon made their music video directorial debut with the song \"All These Boys\" by Jasmine Villegas. Unlike John Gillette's \"All Bad\" they did not dance or appear in the video, but they did serve as the choreographers. In the Spring, they returned to working in television with two projects. At the invitation of Nigel Lythgoe, they joined the production crew on the tenth season of \"American Idol\" as staging and creative directors, a position they continued to hold for season 11. They also choreographed the Howie Mandel-produced television show \"Mobbed\" which premiered after \"American Idol\" on March 31, 2011. The pilot episode was actually shot in September 2010, but after drawing 10.8 million views it was picked up as a series.\n\nIn April 2011, they started work on the film \"Make Your Move\" starring Derek Hough from \"Dancing With the Stars\" and K-pop singer BoA Kwon. Their relationship with BoA extended past the production of the film when they choreographed the music video for her song \"Only One\"—the title track from her seventh studio album. SeoulBeats.com called Tabitha and Napoleon's involvement \"beyond perfect\" and acknowledged that using lyrical hip-hop suited the song's tempo and BoA's movement. Due to scheduling conflicts with the production of \"Make Your Move\", Tabitha and Napoleon did not return to \"America's Best Dance Crew\" as supervising choreographers for season six. When filming was complete, they did return to Cirque du Soleil as two of ten choreographers for \"\". Like other stage shows they've worked on in the past, this one was directed by Jamie King. Christmas 2011 brought personal changes as Napoleon announced on their Twitter page that Tabitha was pregnant.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon spent the beginning of 2012 apart. While Tabitha was choreographing Madonna's halftime performance for Super Bowl XLVI, Napoleon was shooting more scenes for \"Make Your Move\" and scouting for the seventh season of \"America's Best Dance Crew\". Although they never returned to \"America's Best Dance Crew\" as supervising choreographers, they did return in season eight as co-executive producers After the Super Bowl, Tabitha worked with Madonna again. She choreographed her music video \"Girl Gone Wild\" which featured all-male Ukrainian dance troupe Kazaky. During the last months of the year, Tabitha and Napoleon continued to work with K-pop artists. They choreographed the music videos \"Humanoids\" by TVXQ and \"I Got A Boy\" by Girls' Generation. TVXQ, Girls' Generation, and BoA are all signed to S. M. Entertainment.\n\nIn April 2013, Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed the music video \"Puttin' on the Ritz\" by Herb Alpert. Two months later, they recreated the video on SYTYCD as the opening routine for season ten's Top 20 performance episode. Yahoo! Music called the performance \"absolutely epic\". Like the video, it was also shot in one take and several people made cameo appearances including Sean Cheesman, Travis Wall, Chris Scott, Mary Murphy, Jason Gilkison, Nigel Lythgoe, Herb Alpert, Lani Hall, and Tabitha and Napoleon themselves.\n\nIn February 2014, Tabitha and Napoleon teamed up with TVXQ again to choreograph their music video \"Spellbound\"—the title track from their seventh album. Just like Alpert's \"Puttin' on the Ritz\", this video was shot in one take, and just like BoA's \"Only One\", SeoulBeats.com gave it a positive review: \"With two people in the group, there is not much of an opportunity to play around with different formations. However, Nappytabs tends to utilize this formation for TVXQ – rotating the members in the foreground and background, instead of always keeping the two in the centre. And this works especially well with the one-shot style, since it allows room for the duo to work the entire space on set, on and off-camera.\" Billboard.com gave the video a positive review: \"The duo makes a strong case for 2014's best choreography in the [Spellbound] video.\" Tabitha and Napoleon also choreographed Super Junior-M's music video \"Swing\"—the title track from their third EP. They briefly returned to the stage as directors for sibling ballroom dancers Derek and Julianne Hough's \"Move Live on Tour\".\n\nAfter the \"Move\" tour, Tabitha and Napoleon continued to work on music videos. They choreographed Ed Sheeran's music video for the single \"Thinking Out Loud\". Since its premiere, the video has amassed over 1.5 billion views. \n\nThey directed and choreographed the music video for \"Harlem Hopscotch\", the first single from Maya Angelou's posthumous poetry album \"Caged Bird Songs\". The video premiered December 23, 2014, on Oprah.com and features cameo appearances by Derek Hough and actress Zendaya.\n\nThe beginning of 2015 marked a return to K-pop. They choreographed BoA's \"Kiss My Lips\" and EXO's \"Call Me Baby\" and \"Monster\". Afterward, they directed and choreographed Mariah Carey's Number 1's residency at Caesars Palace hotel and re-choreographed \"Beatles Love\" at the Mirage Resort and Casino.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon serve as co-executive producers and supervising choreographers for World of Dance (WOD), a television show based off the hip-hop dance competition of the same name. This project will serve as a continuation of a long professional partnership they've had with Jennifer Lopez; her company Nuyorican Productions is developing the show. Tabitha and Napoleon worked with Lopez in 2009 when they choreographed her performance at the \"American Music Awards\". They choreographed her 2011 music video \"Papi\", her 2014 \"A.K.A.\" promotional tour, and her 2016 \"\" residency at the Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino. Tabitha and Napoleon's relationship with WOD goes back to 2014 when they were judges at the competition's Los Angeles tour stop.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon's choreography is primarily hip-hop; however, it varies across genres depending on what project they're working on. For example, on \"America's Best Dance Crew\" all of the group routines they choreographed were hip-hop. However, on \"So You Think You Can Dance\" (SYTYCD) they choreographed a few jazz routines and on Cirque du Soleil their work incorporated acro. In general, their choreography emphasizes big visuals, which they attribute to their cheerleading past, and is \"...largely centered on storytelling and physical comedy.\" Inspiration for lifts is taken from lucha libre, adagio, and swing dance. The style they are most known for is lyrical hip-hop.\n\nLyrical dance is a studio-based dance style that uses a combination of classical dance techniques from jazz and ballet to tell a story through movement. With jazz and ballet, technique alone can provide a good performance but in lyrical dance expressing emotion is emphasized just as much as technique. Hip-hop is an urban dance style that is characterized as hard-hitting involving isolations—moving certain body parts independently from others—and musicality, the body's sensitivity to changes in music. Hip-hop can incorporate movement from its substyles locking, breaking, popping, and boogaloo to add a different movement quality but conveying emotion does not have to be present as the dance is more about bravado and personal enjoyment. Lyrical hip-hop is a fluid and more interpretive version of standard hip-hop. It combines the nuances of lyrical dance with the vocabulary and foundational movements found in hip-hop. According to \"Dance Spirit\" magazine, what differentiates lyrical hip-hop from standard hip-hop is that dancers interpret the beat differently. In lyrical hip-hop there are still isolations, gliding, and body waves just like in standard hip-hop. However, the movements are smoother and more fluid rather than hard-hitting and, like lyrical dance, emphasis is placed on storytelling and conveying emotion through the choreography.\n\nSome hip-hop purists feel the interpretive and softer approach means lyrical hip-hop is not hip-hop at all. From a purist perspective, dancing to the lyrics would make the choreography linear and too technical. This is because dancing to the words would take precedence over dancing to the beat. Traditionally in hip-hop, dancing to the beat is essential; lyrics can accent the movement, but the beat is the guiding force for the dancing. Other hip-hop dancers, such as choreographer Shane Sparks, believe that lyrical hip-hop is hip-hop but not different enough for it to have a separate label or be in its own subgenre.\n\nAlthough Tabitha and Napoleon have a solid career in choreography and creative direction, they spend a significant amount of time teaching classes at dance studios and conventions. They have stated that teaching helps their choreography because it keeps them current on new hip-hop social dances (party dances). They are faculty members at Monsters of Hip Hop dance convention. In the past they have taught at Shock the Intensive, the Edge Performing Arts Center, Millennium Dance Complex, Hip Hop International, Dance Blitz, Seattle Theater Group, Coastal Dance Rage, the Dance Teacher Web Conference and Expo, Teen Dance Company of the Bay Area, JUMP, Xtreme Dance Force, ProDance, Triple Threat Dance, Project 818, Boogiezone, iHollywood, the So You Think You Can Dance Experience, DANCE! The Convention, the Hollywood Summer Tour, Velocity, Radix, The Zoo, and VIP Dance Events.\n\nThe JabbaWockeeZ performed the show \"MÜS.I.C.\" from May 2010 to September 2012. Over the course of their two-year run, the show received mixed reviews. For their second show \"PRiSM\" they signed a six-year deal which included building a new 830-seat theater in a space that used to house a motion-simulator ride. Upon opening, \"PRiSM\" was met with positive reviews. Tabitha and Napoleon directed both shows.\n\nThe first run of \"MÜS.I.C.\" was held at the MGM Grand Las Vegas hotel and casino. \"Las Vegas Weekly\" wrote that \"MÜS.I.C.\" had \"game-changing potential\" because it was the first time hip-hop dance had headlined a show on the Las Vegas Strip. In contrast, the \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\" (LVRJ) criticized the show for being repetitious and for having a bare stage for the first 20 minutes. LVRJ also criticized the use of masks as not appealing to a casual viewer because it inhibited the dancers' personality: \"Even if a generational split is in play here, it would be tough to hear the creators argue that the show would suffer if, after 20 minutes or so -- gasp! -- makeup or clown-face replaced the masks to expand the original concept.\" In October 2010, the show moved to the Monte Carlo Resort and Casino. Changes to the original show included a bigger stage, a new set, and added dance routines. CraveOnline.com called the new show \"amazing\" and Zap2It.com described it as \"a vibrant, frenetic and multi-genre extravaganza of visuals, sound and movement.\"\n\nIn April 2012, the Jabbawockeez began running two \"MÜS.I.C.\" shows in tandem. Some members stayed with the flagship show in Las Vegas while the others took the show on limited residencies elsewhere. Their first residency outside Las Vegas was in Australia at the Jupiters Hotel and Casino in Gold Coast, Queensland. \"Gold Coast Magazine\" gave the show a good review describing it as \"magical... it truly does stir an emotional response through your soul and the combination of dance and drama make it appealing to all ages.\" After leaving Jupiters, the Jabbawockeez took up a second month-long residency in August 2012 at Harrah's Resort Atlantic City casino in New Jersey. Philly.com gave it a lukewarm review: \"The problem is that as good as Jabbawockeez is at what [they do], the novelty wears off about a third-way through the show... the bulk of the performance pretty much offers little more than variations on a theme. As such, Jabbawockeez would have much more impact as a featured act in a variety show than it has on its own.\" The members that stayed in Las Vegas temporarily moved into an 800-seat tent outside the Monte Carlo to continue their show. VegasChatter.com reviewed the tent show and called it \"an entertaining, fun, and interactive performance show.\" They performed in the tent from June 2012 through September 2012 with the understanding they would take up residence in the Luxor Las Vegas hotel and casino in the Spring of 2013.\n\nThe JabbaWockeeZ second stage show \"PRiSM\" opened at the Luxor Las Vegas on May 31, 2013. The show's original title was \"Nonsense\" (a nod to the crew's name) because, at the time, they lacked a cohesive theme. However, it was Napoleon's idea to change the title to \"PRiSM\" since there are seven crew members and when light goes into a prism, seven colors emerge (the Luxor hotel is in the shape of a triangular prism). From that point on, unity and color became the themes of the show and the title was given the backronym Painting Reality in a Spectrum of Movement.\n\n\"PRiSM\" received positive reviews. \"Las Vegas Weekly\" wrote \"Those who deride the art of pantomime or breakdancing need to check this show out. It will change your mind.\" \"Las Vegas Sun\" (LVS) described the show as \"a mix of great choreography, interesting storylines and special effects reminiscent of Electric Daisy Carnival...\". LVS wrote \"It’s great to see a different kind of headliner — in content and ethnic makeup — thriving on the Strip.\" \"Vegas Kool\" stated that the new theater \"...is laid out [so] everyone has a great view of the stage.\" \"Las Vegas Review-Journal\" (LVRJ) directly addressed Tabitha and Napoleon's involvement in \"...turning the Jabbawockeez brand into an oddly endearing mix of mime, modern dance and physical theater.\"\n\nSeveral reviewers noted that overall \"PRiSM\" is better than \"MÜS.I.C.\" LVRJ wrote \"...it all seems to hang together better this time, with a seamless flow and unifying themes of brotherhood and diversity.\" \"Dance Track Magazine\" wrote \"Not only does the show have a much more intimate feel than previous Jabbawockeez shows, but \"PRiSM\" also includes increased audience participation, intensified humor and a storyline that is dramatic and flows through the entire performance.\" IGoShows.com had the same observation: \"...the [previous] shows were plagued by lost opportunities, undeveloped ideas, and repetition. They seem to have corrected these shortcomings. 'Prism' is better in almost every way over its predecessors. The show has a cohesiveness that it never had before, good follow-through on ideas, and far more intriguing staging. The choreography is strong, varied, and doesn’t suffer the repetition that had invaded it previously.\"\n\nMost criticism of Tabitha and Napoleon's choreography has come as a result of their work on \"So You Think You Can Dance\" (SYTYCD). Over the course of their involvement with the show, they have received mixed reviews. At worst, their choreography has been criticized as \"softie hip-hop (more like 'hip-pop')\". At best, it has been described as \"amazing\" and \"bring[ing] out the best in their dancers...\"\n\n Lyrical hip-hop gained exposure and popularity during Tabitha and Napoleon's first season with SYTYCD (season four). On the first performance episode, contestants Katee Shean and Joshua Allen performed a D'umo choreographed lyrical hip-hop piece to the song \"No Air\" by Jordin Sparks. This routine received positive reviews and was later chosen as a \"Judges' Favorite\" by judge and executive producer Nigel Lythgoe to be performed again during the finale. BuddyTV.com wrote that the routine deserved an Emmy nomination. Although Tabitha and Napoleon were not nominated for \"No Air\", they were nominated for \"Bleeding Love\", another lyrical hip-hop routine performed by Mark Kanemura and Chelsie Hightower which the \"San Francisco Gate\" called a \"great drama from hip-hop choreographers Tabitha and Napoleon D'Umo, danced with chemistry and theatrical flair.\" This routine was picked as a \"Judges' Favorite\" by choreographer and judge Christopher \"Lil' C\" Toler. In June 2010, TVSquad.com named \"No Air\" and \"Bleeding Love\" two of the ten best routines from all seasons of SYTYCD. A third Tabitha and Napoleon lyrical hip-hop routine choreographed to Alicia Keys' song \"Like You'll Never See Me Again\" did not receive as much critical praise or attention as \"Bleeding Love\" or \"No Air\"; however, Nigel Lythgoe confessed when giving feedback on the dance that season four was the first time he had been emotionally affected by hip-hop routines.\n\nSeasons five and six brought less praise for Tabitha and Napoleon. During season five's Top 8 performance episode, Lythgoe commented after a hip-hop routine choreographed by Shane Sparks \"It's wonderful to have Shane Sparks back this season. He brings something else... I've been a little disappointed with our hip-hop this year.\" Out of the ten hip-hop routines (both couples and group routines) choreographed on season five previous to Lythgoe's comment, Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed seven. The most significant criticism came during season six in response to \"People are Strange\"—a routine about how aliens would attempt to dance hip-hop. None of the judges liked the routine. Lythgoe said the routine placed concept (theme) over substance (dancing). All the judges felt that the dance was weird and that the choreography was more to blame for the dancers' performance than the dancing itself. Of the routine \"Give it to me Right\" that Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed on a later season six episode about two fraternizing office employees, TVSquad.com wrote that many parts were awkward and that the dance only became enjoyable once the dancers \"stopped cavorting around the desk and got out on the floor.\" In contrast to the mediocre to bad reviews, two other routines they choreographed were picked as \"Judges' Favorite\" during the season six finale: \"Beggin'\" (chosen by Lil' C) and \"I Can Transform Ya\" (chosen by Mary Murphy).\n\nTabitha and Napoleon received their best reviews on SYTYCD during season seven after a performance they choreographed to the song \"Outta Your Mind\" by Lil Jon. Creators.com called the routine \"brilliantly imaginative.\" \"Pioneer Local\" called it \"powerful... It's been so long since [Tabitha and Napoleon] have had a showstopping hip-hop number on SYTYCD. Not since Season 4 when they had Katee, Joshua, tWitch, Mark and Chelsie have they pulled out hip-hop this good.\" The routine was performed by ballet dancer Alex Wong and \"All-Star\" hip-hop dancer Stephen \"tWitch\" Boss from season four. The concept is about a psychologist (tWitch) who teaches a dancer (Alex) to let go of his technique and inhibitions and just dance. After the performance, tWitch and Alex received a standing ovation from the crowd and all three judges—Nigel Lythgoe, Mia Michaels, and Adam Shankman. Host Cat Deeley commented \"I have never, never, in 'So You Think You Can Dance' history, heard a roar from a crowd like this - ever.\" Lythgoe called the concept \"brilliant... This is about a ballet dancer doing the most incredible hip-hop... If this routine and you are not up for an Emmy with Napoleon and Tabitha next year, I don't know why not. It's probably one of the funnest, best hip-hop routines we've ever had on this show.\" In slight disagreement, the \"Wall Street Journal\" noted that \"Outta Your Mind\" may in fact be nominated for an Emmy, but it is unlikely to win because past winners have all been lyrical, very emotional routines.\n\nOn a later episode, Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed a lyrical hip-hop routine to Alicia Keys debut single \"Fallin'\". Of the dance, judge Mia Michaels stated \"That to me felt more real than any contemporary piece, honestly, because it came from such a raw raw space and place. That was absolutely unbelievable, and it was like watching a dance film.\" Lythgoe stated that the dance reminded him of \"Bleeding Love\" and \"No Air\" from season four and added \"Somehow Napoleon and Tabitha have this ability... to put emotion into hip-hop routines and it really is a real talent.\"\n\nThe positive reviews continued through the rest of the season. Of Tabitha and Napoleon's \"Scars\" routine about angry clowns, Lythgoe called the piece \"stunning\" and Michaels described it as \"hip-hop theater\". After the episode aired, \"Dance Spirit\" magazine wrote \"Tabitha and Napoleon are on FIRE this season!\" The \"Los Angeles Times\" echoed this comment stating that season seven had been \"Nappytabs' best season\". On the Top 3 performance episode, after their \"Power\" routine danced by eventual champion Lauren Froderman and \"All-Star\" tWitch, Michaels commented \"Nappytabs what a season you have had, my God. It's been like home run after home run after home run...\" Shankman echoed this comment on the finale by calling Tabitha and Napoleon \"the MVPs of the season\". Four of their routines—\"Fallin'\", \"Scars\", \"Battle for the Beat\", and \"My Chick Bad\"—were chosen as \"Judges' Favorite\" during the season seven finale broadcast. Due to an injury sustained by Alex Wong, \"Outta Your Mind\" was not picked as a judge's favorite. Instead, it was performed by tWitch and special guest Ellen DeGeneres as a tribute to Alex just before Lauren Froderman was declared the winner of season seven.\n\nSeason eight brought back mixed feedback. Early in the season, Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed a lyrical hip-hop routine \"Coming Home\" about a veteran coming back to his wife after returning from his deployment. The routine generated positive while emotional responses causing both guest judge Debbie Reynolds and resident judge Mary Murphy to cry while giving feedback. \"The Star Ledger\" placed \"Coming Home\" at number three in its list of the top five routines performed during season eight. Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed another lyrical hip-hop routine \"I Got You\" on the Top 16 performance episode. Celebuzz.com called the routine \"dramatic and breathtaking\". The dance generated positive reviews from the judges causing them to spontaneously kiss one another in response to a kiss that was choreographed into the dance. On the Top 8 performance episode, Lady Gaga appeared as a guest judge in which three hip-hop routines were performed. Although Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed two of them, she criticized their work while giving feedback on all three. She indirectly criticized them after a lyrical hip-hop piece choreographed by Marty Kudelka in which she referred to the dance style as \"dated\". Of the two routines they did choreograph, she criticized their use of props in both of them. A flower was used in the first routine \"Take a Bow\" about a cheating boyfriend asking for forgiveness. Several props including trash cans, rags, and brooms were used in the second routine \"Bad Boys for Life\" about waste management workers. Aside from disliking the props, she described their hip-hop choreography for \"Bad Boys for Life\" as \"contrived\". On the finale, \"Coming Home\" was not picked as a \"Judges Favorite\" but two other routines they choreographed, \"I Got You\" and \"Break Ya Neck\", were chosen instead by judges Nigel Lythgoe and Lil' C respectively.\n\n\"Make Your Move\" was released in South Korea and the United States in April 2013. With the exception of a make-out scene the choreography was generally praised among critics. \"The Washington Post\" stated \"Although the bit of bedroom footwork was more laugh-inducing than anything, some of the dancing really is spectacular. Scenes from the competing clubs include impressive choreography and gravity-defying moves.\" KPopStarz.com wrote \"The dance teams and performances are enough to dominate the scenes, and definitely deserve a look. They bring forth the unique charm of watching a dance movie.\" RogerEbert.com stated \"'Make Your Move' rests on the success of its various dance sequences, not its plot. And the dancing here is exciting, innovative, and specific. Each 'number' has a story behind it, a motivation, a different look and feel... I could have lived without the choreographed (literally) foreplay scene, as they dance their way to the bed, but there are other dance sequences between the two where their chemistry vibrates off the screen.\" \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said \"The Romeo and Juliet-inspired plotline basically serves as a framing device allowing the opportunity for a plethora of exuberant dance sequences that particularly show off Hough's considerable talent.\"\n\nPrimetime Emmy Awards<br>\nTabitha and Napoleon have won two Emmys from a total of four nominations. At the 2013 Primetime Emmy Awards ceremony, they joined the other choreography nominees and created a routine honoring dance that was performed just before the Outstanding Choreography award was presented. 2013 was the first year the Outstanding Choreography award was presented at the Primetime Emmys telecast rather than at the Creative Arts Emmys ceremony which takes place a week prior.\nMTV Video Music Awards<br>\nDancers' Choice Awards<br> \nThe Carnival Choreographer's Ball<br>\nWorld of Dance<br>\nEntertainment Weekly<br>\nIn 2011, \"Entertainment Weekly\" compiled a list of the \"25 Best Performances Ever\" on \"So You Think You Can Dance\". Tabitha and Napoleon choreographed four routines on the list. \nTabitha and Napoleon have donated money and their time to different non-profit organizations. In 2009, they made an appearance at the Life Changing Lives Gala, the proceeds of which benefited the Wounded Warrior Project, the Make-A-Wish Foundation, and the Boys & Girls Clubs. At the event, dancers Katie Shean and Joshua Allen from season four of \"So You Think You Can Dance\" performed the D'umo choreographed \"No Air\" lyrical hip-hop routine about a soldier telling his girlfriend he is being deployed.\n\nIn the wake of the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Tabitha and Napoleon held a week-long fundraiser from online sales of their dancewear line. The money raised was donated to Artists for Peace and Justice who in turn gave 100% of their donations toward humanitarian relief efforts. For a separate fundraiser, they donated Nappytabs merchandise for a silent auction held by the organization Art4Life to benefit the American Cancer Society.\n\nIn 2012, they taught classes at \"The JabbaWockeez Experience\" held at the Alexis Park Resort in Las Vegas. The event raised money for the Monsters on the Move Foundation which grants scholarships to aspiring dancers.\n\nIn 2013, they worked with the Jabbawockeez again on a music video to the song \"Celebrate\" by Empire of the Sun and Tommy Trash. The music video also featured Les Twins, 8 Flavahz, and Harry Shum, Jr. and was used to raise money for a Coke (RED) campaign to decrease the number of HIV-infected newborns and raise awareness about AIDS. For Veterans Day 2013, they choreographed a military themed performance for the Homeward Bound Telethon that aired live on the Military Channel. The purpose of the telethon was to raise money for veterans who suffer from TBI and PTSD.\n\nTabitha and Napoleon are on the board of directors of the Dizzy Feet Foundation and the advisory board of The Young Choreographers Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23035314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23035314", "title": "Taikura Rudolf Steiner School", "text": "Taikura Rudolf Steiner School\n\nTaikura Rudolf Steiner School is a co-educational state integrated composite school for students in Years 1 to 13, located in Hastings, New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "53480286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53480286", "title": "The State Hermitage Youth Education Center", "text": "The State Hermitage Youth Education Center\n\nThe State Hermitage Youth Education Center (Russian: Молодёжный образовательный центр Государственного Эрмитажа), is a contemporary art education program in Saint Petersburg, Russia that is part of The Hermitage Museum. The program is offered for all students, whether from St. Petersburg, other Russian cities or from abroad. Activities include lectures on the history and theory of art, exhibitions of contemporary art, masterclasses, and access to Museum curators and collections. There are also special semester programs for students studying from abroad. State Hermitage Youth Education Center organizes a number of international festivals and cultural programs on the history and traditions of different countries and nations. \n\nThe Youth Center was launched in 2000 when Mijaíl Borisovich Piotrovsk, Director of The Hermitage, signed the order for the creation of the Student Club which bears the same name as the museum. Since 2011, it has been located in located in the east wing of Saint Petersburg’s General Staff Building, and since its founding it’s been supervised by curator Sofía Vladimirovna Kudryavtseva.\n\nAt the core of the Student Club are thematic sections, which are managed by museum staff. Membership is open to students or graduates from universities in Saint Petersburg or from those in the Leningrad region. Which thematic section they decide to join depends exclusively on their particular inclinations and interests. All activities at the Youth Center begin on October 1 – the day on which Russia celebrates “student day” in the Hermitage Theatre.\n\nThe \"Present Art\" program includes masterclasses and exhibitions of renowned artists, meetings with curators of international art projects, lectures about current issues in contemporary art, discussions and seminars. These programs invite the participation of representatives from specific departments of Russian universities (St. Petersburg State University, Herzen University, I. Repin St.Petersburg State Academy Institute of painting, sculpture and architecture, Saint Petersburg Stieglitz State Academy of Art and Design).\n\nThis educational program includes meetings with curators of exhibitions, conferences and masterclasses conducted by artists. Recent programs for the exhibitions:\n\nOn February 1, 2013 The Youth Center launched a new and unique program, \"Museum and small museologist\", thanks to the initiative of St. Petersburg State University’s Philosophy Department and approved by Director of The Hermitage. This program is directed to students 9 to 11 years old and strives to show them how a contemporary art museum works and what its employees do. During the academic year, the students meet with principal figures of the museum - the director, restorers, curators, for example - and thereby learn about the real work of different departments of the museum.\n\nThis program was developed by the Youth Center in collaboration with the Yamalo-Nenets Fraternity – members of the Student Club - to teach about the colorful history of this indigenous people. The program includes an exhibition of applied art, workshops, masterclasses, folk concerts and documentary film screenings.\n\n"}
{"id": "17143596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17143596", "title": "Toy Shop", "text": "Toy Shop\n\nToy Shop is a simulation/role-playing video game video game developed by Portuguese team Seed Studios and published by Majesco Entertainment for the Nintendo DS handheld video game console. It is often compared to the Story of Seasons series but with a Toy Shop theme.\n\nIt was developed by the Portuguese video games company Seed Studios.\n\n"}
{"id": "3551122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551122", "title": "Universal preschool", "text": "Universal preschool\n\nUniversal preschool is an international movement to use public funding to ensure high quality preschool (pre-k) is available to all families.\n\nCiting international and domestic research showing a benefit to children from low and middle income families both in the short and long term, the movement to advance publicly funded pre-k has resulted in the successful passage of pre-k enabling legislation in 44 states in the US. While some funding legislation for pre-k has been passed on the federal level, including the Race to the Top Early Learning Challenge Grant, much of the advocacy focuses on building broad support from diverse leaders in business, child activists, educators, philanthropists, law enforcement, and healthcare to lobby state legislatures.\n\nStates use public dollars to fund pre-k programs in a variety of settings, including public schools, private non-profit and for-profit centers, and in regulated home childcare. Typically states fund preschool for three-, four-, and five-year-old children who have missed a cut-off date for enrollment in kindergarten. The hours range from 10 hours per week in Vermont, to full day programs in other states. Funding mechanisms vary as well, with some state utilizing a state budget line item versus a local budget appropriation.\n\nWhile variations in implementation are numerous, state-funded pre-k consistently offer programs on a voluntary basis for children and families, unlike compulsory elementary, which is mandated by law with exceptions to allow for homeschooling and alternative education. Variations include how states deal with the following pre-k implementation elements: \n\nSupporters of publicly funded preschool for all children cite research that shows:\n\nRecent studies show that the benefits of universal preschool outweigh the costs. A 2005 longitudinal study of 123 3 and 4-year-old black children conducted a cost-benefit analysis, reports that for every $1 invested in preschool education, there is a return on the investment of $12.90. Advantages of universal preschool for the child also include higher reading scores for low-income students. According to research from Dartmouth College, universal preschool programs boost low-income children's reading scores more than targeted preschool programs (e.g., Head Start). The study finds that the difference in reading scores is large enough to conclude that universal preschool is more productive than targeted preschool. Other research supports the Dartmouth College study's findings. Barnett and Frede's (2010) extensive research in early childhood education found that because students learn from each other, disadvantaged students learn more if their classmates are socioeconomically diverse. Additionally, a study out of Tulsa that compared Head Start and a state-funded (i.e., universal) preschool program found that the universal program is more effective in improving literacy outcomes and attentiveness. \n\nAs the topic of universal preschool gains momentum in the United States, policymakers will be involved in designing preschool programs. Many researchers are concerned that once state governments get involved, preschool programs will focus on academic skills rather than the comprehensive developmental needs of children. Because of the rich diversity in schools, researchers caution against using a 'one-size fits all' policy for developing universal preschool programs. Researchers recommend that policymakers consider the diverse perspectives of the primary stakeholders (i.e., children and educators) when developing policy for high-quality preschools. Research performed by Celia Genishi can aid policymakers in developing culturally responsive and developmentally appropriate high-quality preschool programs. Genishi's research considers the diverse classroom and students as the 'norm' and stresses the importance of the context of learning. Researchers suggest that policymakers examine a variety of research studies and create systems that are responsive to student diversity so that we can better serve all children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1271747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271747", "title": "University of La Frontera", "text": "University of La Frontera\n\nUniversity of the Frontier () or UFRO is a university in Temuco Chile. It is a derivative university and part of the Chilean Traditional Universities. UFRO boasts a student body with a variety of abilities and from a variety of backgrounds, many of them are Mapuche descent.\n\nThe university owns a property called Rucamanque, that is used for research, environmental education, and conservation. Rucamanque holds old-growth and second-growth forest.\n"}
