{"id": "43508428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43508428", "title": "Aahung", "text": "Aahung\n\nAahung is a Pakistani organisation which aims to improve sexual and reproductive health. It is based in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan. It was established in 1994, and in 2013 was awarded the annual Human Rights Tulip prize by the Dutch government.\n\nAahung is a Karachi-based non-governmental organisation which aims to improve the sexual and reproductive health of men, women, and adolescents across Pakistan. On its website it states its role as “enhancing the scope and improving the quality of services that uphold sexual health and rights, while advocating for an enabling environment where every individual’s sexual health and rights are respected, protected, and fulfilled as an inalienable human right.”\n\nAahung was founded in 1994, bringing together two community-based projects, Karachi Reproductive Health Project (KRHP-1994) and AIDS Awareness Program (AAP-1997), which were aiming to improve the sexual health status of women and adolescents in four low-income urban communities.\n\nThe experience and research of project members pointed to a widespread lack of accurate knowledge and understanding about sexual health matters, not only among the general population but among providers of medical services as well. Aahung developed culturally appropriate techniques for providing information and empowering members of the public to make better sexual and reproductive health choices and practise safer behaviours. It improved the skills of medical practitioners in handling consultations about sexual health problems, and drew up more appropriate protocols for managing sexually transmitted disease.\n\nSheena Hadi, a graduate of Amherst College, Massachusetts, became director of Aahung in 2008.\n\nThe group's own summing up of its activities is: “Functioning in an environment devoid of expertise or resources, Aahung has been successful in developing culturally relevant strategies to respond to the sexual and reproductive health needs of the Pakistani population. Moreover, Aahung has had success in integrating quality sexual and reproductive health education in medical academic and educational institutions across Pakistan.” \n\nAahung adopts innovative strategies to promote public awareness on critical topics of reproductive health such as gender equality, violence, maternal health, and infection prevention, and to advance reproductive health and rights. It also develops long-term partnerships with organisations and institutions providing education and medical services.\n\nIn a country such as Pakistan, where religious and cultural norms may hinder communication on sexual and reproductive health issues, Aahung has developed culturally appropriate strategies to respond to the sexual health needs of the Pakistani population. It offers specialised training courses and develops information, education and communication materials in provincial languages that can be disseminated through clinics and community workers throughout Pakistan. It widens community outreach by working with the field staff of community-based organisations (CBOs) and building the capacity of these CBOs.\n\nAahung has begun to introduce sexual health education and services into schools, a provision that has otherwise been generally lacking in Pakistan. It has drawn up life skills-based education (LSBE) programmes incorporating sexual and reproductive health, and trained teachers to implement them at both primary and secondary levels. Topics covered include gender discrimination, HIV/AIDS, child marriage and protection from violence. In the process Aahung has worked with religious leaders and institutions. Aahung has succeeded in integrating the LSBE curriculum into public and private schools in Sindh province.\n\nAahung has integrated sexual health education and services into a range of reproductive health organisations, medical universities and nursing colleges. For example, Aahung has collaborated with Dow University of Karachi on developing a medical education curriculum for trainee medical doctors, incorporating reproductive health education, and inculcating clinical skills in dealing with patients' sexual and reproductive issues in a sensitive and non-judgemental way.\n\nAahung has adopted a rights-based approach to address the sexual and reproductive health needs of the people of Pakistan, advocating for increased access to quality sexual and reproductive health information and services. It advocates for improving laws and policies and holding the government accountable to national and international commitments in this arena.\n\nPublications of Aahung include: “Preventing Child Sexual Abuse”, “Aware for Life - Facilitator Guide”, “A Care givers' Guide: 'How to Talk to Children and Young People'”, and “Teaching Puberty and Responsible Behaviour”.\n\nIn December 2013, Aahung, in the person of its director Sheena Hadi, was presented with the Human Rights Tulip Award by the Netherlands Minister of Foreign Affairs, Frans Timmermans. The Tulip award is presented each year to a global human rights defender or organisation for the promotion and protection of human rights through the use of innovation. In selecting the 2013 winner, special attention was given to human rights defenders working in innovative ways.\n\nPresenting the award on 11 December 2013, Mr Timmermans said: “Aahung owes its success to the ability to give human rights a human face … Its efforts to promote human rights are not abstract. They involve the people we share our daily lives with and who are part of the local community. They teach men and women of all ages life skills to help them deal with issues like puberty, gender discrimination, HIV/AIDS, peer pressure and family planning. The Aahung method is to engage a wide range of stakeholders, like school teachers, medical staff, religious scholars and parents, to talk about difficult subjects”.\n\nTimmermans added that the award of the Human Rights Tulip to Aahung was more than simply the end of a selection process: it was the start of a long relationship between Aahung and the Netherlands. Aahung would be able to use the €100,000 prize to further develop, innovate and scale up its human rights work, so that more people in as many places as possible would be able to benefit. The Hague Institute for the Internationalisation of Law (HiiL) would work with Aahung to extend the reach of the latter’s successful approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "53238722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53238722", "title": "Adenoacanthoma", "text": "Adenoacanthoma\n\nAdenoacanthoma is malignancy of squamous cells that have differentiated from epithelial cells. It can be present in the endothelium of the uterus, mouth and large intestine. \n\nIf the tumor is well-defined, the treatment is often includes a hysterectomy and radiation treatment. Treatment may vary according to how far the tumor has spread.\n\nPrognosis is dependent upon the presence and abundance of glandular cells. Outcomes improve if the tumor is well-defined.\n\nIt is associated with hormone replacement therapy (estrogen). The risk is higher in white women than other ethnicities, incidence, prevalence, age distribution, and sex ratio\n\n"}
{"id": "627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627", "title": "Agriculture", "text": "Agriculture\n\nAgriculture is the cultivation of land and breeding of animals and plants to provide food, fiber, medicinal plants and other products to sustain and enhance life. Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that enabled people to live in cities. The study of agriculture is known as agricultural science. The history of agriculture dates back thousands of years; people gathered wild grains at least 105,000 years ago and began to plant them around 11,500 years ago before they became domesticated. Pigs, sheep, and cattle were domesticated over 10,000 years ago. Crops originate from at least 11 regions of the world. Industrial agriculture based on large-scale monoculture has in the past century come to dominate agricultural output, though about 2 billion people worldwide still depend on subsistence agriculture.\n\nModern agronomy, plant breeding, agrochemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers, and technological developments have sharply increased yields from cultivation, but at the same time have caused widespread ecological and environmental damage. Selective breeding and modern practices in animal husbandry have similarly increased the output of meat, but have raised concerns about animal welfare and environmental damage through contributions to global warming, depletion of aquifers, deforestation, antibiotic resistance, and growth hormones in industrially produced meat. Genetically modified organisms are widely used, although they are banned in several countries.\n\nThe major agricultural products can be broadly grouped into foods, fibers, fuels, and raw materials (such as rubber). Classes of foods include cereals (grains), vegetables, fruits, oils, meat, milk, fungi and eggs. Over one-third of the world's workers are employed in agriculture, second only to the service sector, although the number of agricultural workers in developed countries has decreased significantly over the past several centuries.\n\nThe word \"agriculture\" is a late Middle English adaptation of Latin \"agricultūra\", from \"ager\", \"field\", which in its turn came from Greek αγρός, and \"cultūra\", \"cultivation\" or \"growing\". Agriculture usually refers to human activities, although it is also observed in certain species of ant, termite and ambrosia beetle. Agriculture is defined with varying scopes, in its broadest sense using natural resources to \"produce commodities which maintain life, including food, fiber, forest products, horticultural crops, and their related services\". Thus defined, it includes arable farming, horticulture, animal husbandry, and forestry, but horticulture and forestry are in practice often excluded.\n\nThe development of agriculture enabled the human population to grow many times larger than could be sustained by hunting and gathering. Agriculture began independently in different parts of the globe, and included a diverse range of taxa. At least 11 separate regions of the Old and New World were involved as independent centers of origin. Wild grains were collected and eaten from at least 105,000 years ago. From around 11,500 years ago, the eight Neolithic founder crops, emmer and einkorn wheat, hulled barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chick peas and flax were cultivated in the Levant. Rice was domesticated in China between 11,500 and 6,200 BC with earliest known cultivation from 5,700 BC, followed by mung, soy and azuki beans. Sheep were domesticated in Mesopotamia between 13,000 and 11,000 years ago. Cattle were domesticated from the wild aurochs in the areas of modern Turkey and Pakistan some 10,500 years ago. Domestic pigs had multiple centres of origin in Eurasia, including Europe, East Asia and Southwest Asia, where wild boar were first domesticated about 10,500 years ago. In the Andes of South America, the potato was domesticated between 10,000 and 7,000 years ago, along with beans, coca, llamas, alpacas, and guinea pigs. Sugarcane and some root vegetables were domesticated in New Guinea around 9,000 years ago. Sorghum was domesticated in the Sahel region of Africa by 7,000 years ago. Cotton was domesticated in Peru by 5,600 years ago, and was independently domesticated in Eurasia. In Mesoamerica, wild teosinte was domesticated to maize by 6,000 years ago.\nScholars have developed a number of hypotheses to explain the historical origins of agriculture. Studies of the transition from hunter-gatherer to agricultural societies indicate an initial period of intensification and increasing sedentism; examples are the Natufian culture in the Levant, and the Early Chinese Neolithic in China. Then, wild stands that had previously been harvested started to be planted, and gradually came to be domesticated.\n\nIn Eurasia, the Sumerians started to live in villages from about 8,000 BC, relying on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers and a canal system for irrigation. Ploughs appear in pictographs around 3,000 BC; seed-ploughs around 2,300 BC. Farmers grew wheat, barley, vegetables such as lentils and onions, and fruits including dates, grapes, and figs. Ancient Egyptian agriculture relied on the Nile River and its seasonal flooding. Farming started in the predynastic period at the end of the Paleolithic, after 10,000 BC. Staple food crops were grains such as wheat and barley, alongside industrial crops such as flax and papyrus. In India, wheat, barley, and jujube were domesticated by 9,000 BC, soon followed by sheep and goats. Cattle, sheep and goats were domesticated in Mehrgarh culture by 8,000–6,000 BC. Cotton was cultivated by the 5th-4th millennium BC. There is archeological evidence of an animal-drawn plough from 2,500 BC in the Indus Valley Civilization.\nIn China, from the 5th century BC there was a nationwide granary system and widespread silk farming. Water-powered grain mills were in use by the 1st century BC, followed by irrigation. By the late 2nd century, heavy ploughs had been developed with iron ploughshares and mouldboards. These slowly spread westwards across Eurasia. Asian rice was domesticated 8,200–13,500 years ago – depending on the molecular clock estimate that is used – on the Pearl River in southern China with a single genetic origin from the wild rice \"Oryza rufipogon\". In ancient Greece and Rome, the major cereals were wheat, emmer, and barley, alongside vegetables including peas, beans, and olives. Sheep and goats were kept mainly for dairy products.\n\nIn the Americas, crops domesticated in Mesoamerica (apart from teosinte) include squash, beans, and cocoa. Cocoa was being domesticated by the Mayo Chinchipe of the upper Amazon around 3,000 BC.\nThe turkey was probably domesticated in Mexico or the American Southwest. The Aztecs developed irrigation systems, formed terraced hillsides, fertilized their soil, and developed chinampas or artificial islands. The Mayas used extensive canal and raised field systems to farm swampland from 400 BC. Coca was domesticated in the Andes, as were the peanut, tomato, tobacco, and pineapple. Cotton was domesticated in Peru by 3,600 BC. Animals, too, including llamas, alpacas, and guinea pigs were domesticated in the region. In North America, the indigenous people of the East domesticated crops such as sunflower, tobacco, squash and \"Chenopodium\". Wild foods including wild rice and maple sugar were harvested. The domesticated strawberry is a hybrid of a Chilean and a North American species, developed by breeding in Europe and North America. The indigenous people of the Southwest and the Pacific Northwest practiced forest gardening and fire-stick farming. The natives controlled fire on a regional scale to create a low-intensity fire ecology which sustained a low-density agriculture in loose rotation; a sort of \"wild\" permaculture. A system of companion planting called the Three Sisters was developed on the Great Plains, the three crops being winter squash, maize, and climbing beans.\n\nIndigenous Australians, long supposed to have been nomadic hunter-gatherers, practised systematic burning to enhance natural productivity in fire-stick farming. The Gunditjmara and other groups developed eel farming and fish trapping systems from some 5,000 years ago. There is evidence of 'intensification' across the whole continent over that period. In two regions of Australia, the central west coast and eastern central Australia, early agriculture with crops of yams, native millet, and bush onions may have been practised in permanent settlements.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, both in the Islamic world and in Europe, agriculture was transformed with improved techniques and the diffusion of crop plants, including the introduction of sugar, rice, cotton and fruit trees such as the orange to Europe by way of Al-Andalus. After 1492, the Columbian exchange brought New World crops such as maize, potatoes, tomatoes, sweet potatoes and manioc to Europe, and Old World crops such as wheat, barley, rice and turnips, and livestock including horses, cattle, sheep and goats to the Americas.\nIrrigation, crop rotation, and fertilizers were greatly developed in the past 200 years, starting with the British Agricultural Revolution, allowing global population to rise significantly. Since 1900, agriculture in the developed nations, and to a lesser extent in the developing world, has seen large rises in productivity as human labor has been replaced by mechanization, and assisted by synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, and selective breeding. The Haber-Bosch method allowed the synthesis of ammonium nitrate fertilizer on an industrial scale, greatly increasing crop yields and sustaining a further increase in global population. Modern agriculture has raised political issues including water pollution, biofuels, genetically modified organisms, tariffs and farm subsidies, leading to alternative approaches such as the organic movement.\n\nPastoralism involves managing domesticated animals. In nomadic pastoralism, herds of livestock are moved from place to place in search of pasture, fodder, and water. This type of farming is practised in arid and semi-arid regions of Sahara, Central Asia and some parts of India.\n\nIn shifting cultivation, a small area of a forest is cleared by cutting down all the trees and the area is burned. The land is then used for growing crops for several years. When the soil becomes less fertile, the area is then abandoned. Another patch of land is selected and the process is repeated. This type of farming is practiced mainly in areas with abundant rainfall where the forest regenerates quickly. This practice is used in Northeast India, Southeast Asia, and the Amazon Basin.\n\nSubsistence farming is practiced to satisfy family or local needs alone, with little left over for transport elsewhere. It is intensively practiced in Monsoon Asia and South-East Asia. If the typical subsistence farmer is equivalent to a smallholder, then there are an estimated 2.5 billion such farmers in 2018, cultivating about 60% of the earth's arable land.\n\nIn intensive farming, the crops are cultivated to maximise profit, with a low fallow ratio and a high use of inputs. This type of farming is practiced mainly in highly developed countries.\n\nIn the past century, agriculture has been characterized by increased productivity, the substitution of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides for labor, water pollution, and farm subsidies. In recent years there has been a backlash against the environmental effects of conventional agriculture, resulting in the organic, regenerative, and sustainable agriculture movements. One of the major forces behind this movement has been the European Union, which first certified organic food in 1991 and began reform of its Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in 2005 to phase out commodity-linked farm subsidies, also known as decoupling. The growth of organic farming has renewed research in alternative technologies such as integrated pest management, selective breeding, and controlled-environment agriculture. Recent mainstream technological developments include genetically modified food. Demand for non-food biofuel crops, development of former farm lands, rising transportation costs, climate change, growing consumer demand in China and India, and population growth, are threatening food security in many parts of the world. The International Fund for Agricultural Development posits that an increase in smallholder agriculture may be part of the solution to concerns about food prices and overall food security, given the favorable experience of Vietnam. Soil degradation and diseases such as stem rust are major concerns globally; approximately 40% of the world's agricultural land is seriously degraded. By 2015, the agricultural output of China was the largest in the world, followed by the European Union, India and the United States. Economists measure the total factor productivity of agriculture and by this measure agriculture in the United States is roughly 1.7 times more productive than it was in 1948.\n\nFollowing the three-sector theory, the number of people employed in agriculture and other primary activities (such as fishing) can be more than 80% in the least developed countries, and less than 2% in the most highly developed countries. Since the Industrial Revolution, many countries have made the transition to developed economies, and the proportion of people working in agriculture has steadily fallen. During the 16th century in Europe, for example, between 55 and 75% of the population was engaged in agriculture; by the 19th century, this had dropped to between 35 and 65%. In the same countries today, the figure is less than 10%.\nAt the start of the 21st century, some one billion people, or over 1/3 of the available work force, were employed in agriculture. It constitutes approximately 70% of the global employment of children, and in many countries employs the largest percentage of women of any industry. The service sector overtook the agricultural sector as the largest global employer in 2007.\n\nAgriculture, specifically farming, remains a hazardous industry, and farmers worldwide remain at high risk of work-related injuries, lung disease, noise-induced hearing loss, skin diseases, as well as certain cancers related to chemical use and prolonged sun exposure. On industrialized farms, injuries frequently involve the use of agricultural machinery, and a common cause of fatal agricultural injuries in developed countries is tractor rollovers. Pesticides and other chemicals used in farming can also be hazardous to worker health, and workers exposed to pesticides may experience illness or have children with birth defects. As an industry in which families commonly share in work and live on the farm itself, entire families can be at risk for injuries, illness, and death. Ages 0–6 may be an especially vulnerable population in agriculture; common causes of fatal injuries among young farm workers include drowning, machinery and motor accidents, including with all-terrain vehicles.\n\nThe International Labour Organization considers agriculture \"one of the most hazardous of all economic sectors\". It estimates that the annual work-related death toll among agricultural employees is at least 170,000, twice the average rate of other jobs. In addition, incidences of death, injury and illness related to agricultural activities often go unreported. The organization has developed the Safety and Health in Agriculture Convention, 2001, which covers the range of risks in the agriculture occupation, the prevention of these risks and the role that individuals and organizations engaged in agriculture should play.\n\nIn America, agriculture has been identified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health as a priority industry sector in the National Occupational Research Agenda to identify and provide intervention strategies for occupational health and safety issues.\nIn the European Union, the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work has issued guidelines on implementing health and safety directives in agriculture, livestock farming, horticulture, and forestry.\n\nOverall production varies by country as listed.\n\nCropping systems vary among farms depending on the available resources and constraints; geography and climate of the farm; government policy; economic, social and political pressures; and the philosophy and culture of the farmer.\n\nShifting cultivation (or slash and burn) is a system in which forests are burnt, releasing nutrients to support cultivation of annual and then perennial crops for a period of several years. Then the plot is left fallow to regrow forest, and the farmer moves to a new plot, returning after many more years (10–20). This fallow period is shortened if population density grows, requiring the input of nutrients (fertilizer or manure) and some manual pest control. Annual cultivation is the next phase of intensity in which there is no fallow period. This requires even greater nutrient and pest control inputs.\n\nFurther industrialization led to the use of monocultures, when one cultivar is planted on a large acreage. Because of the low biodiversity, nutrient use is uniform and pests tend to build up, necessitating the greater use of pesticides and fertilizers. Multiple cropping, in which several crops are grown sequentially in one year, and intercropping, when several crops are grown at the same time, are other kinds of annual cropping systems known as polycultures.\n\nIn subtropical and arid environments, the timing and extent of agriculture may be limited by rainfall, either not allowing multiple annual crops in a year, or requiring irrigation. In all of these environments perennial crops are grown (coffee, chocolate) and systems are practiced such as agroforestry. In temperate environments, where ecosystems were predominantly grassland or prairie, highly productive annual farming is the dominant agricultural system.\n\nImportant categories of food crops include cereals, legumes, forage, fruits and vegetables. Natural fibers include cotton, wool, hemp, silk and flax. Specific crops are cultivated in distinct growing regions throughout the world. Production is listed in millions of metric tons, based on FAO estimates.\n\nAnimal husbandry is the breeding and raising of animals for meat, milk, eggs, or wool), and for work and transport. Working animals, including horses, mules, oxen, water buffalo, camels, llamas, alpacas, donkeys, and dogs, have for centuries been used to help cultivate fields, harvest crops, wrangle other animals, and transport farm products to buyers.\n\nLivestock production systems can be defined based on feed source, as grassland-based, mixed, and landless. , 30% of Earth's ice- and water-free area was used for producing livestock, with the sector employing approximately 1.3 billion people. Between the 1960s and the 2000s, there was a significant increase in livestock production, both by numbers and by carcass weight, especially among beef, pigs and chickens, the latter of which had production increased by almost a factor of 10. Non-meat animals, such as milk cows and egg-producing chickens, also showed significant production increases. Global cattle, sheep and goat populations are expected to continue to increase sharply through 2050. Aquaculture or fish farming, the production of fish for human consumption in confined operations, is one of the fastest growing sectors of food production, growing at an average of 9% a year between 1975 and 2007.\n\nDuring the second half of the 20th century, producers using selective breeding focused on creating livestock breeds and crossbreeds that increased production, while mostly disregarding the need to preserve genetic diversity. This trend has led to a significant decrease in genetic diversity and resources among livestock breeds, leading to a corresponding decrease in disease resistance and local adaptations previously found among traditional breeds.\n\nGrassland based livestock production relies upon plant material such as shrubland, rangeland, and pastures for feeding ruminant animals. Outside nutrient inputs may be used, however manure is returned directly to the grassland as a major nutrient source. This system is particularly important in areas where crop production is not feasible because of climate or soil, representing 30–40 million pastoralists. Mixed production systems use grassland, fodder crops and grain feed crops as feed for ruminant and monogastric (one stomach; mainly chickens and pigs) livestock. Manure is typically recycled in mixed systems as a fertilizer for crops.\n\nLandless systems rely upon feed from outside the farm, representing the de-linking of crop and livestock production found more prevalently in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries. Synthetic fertilizers are more heavily relied upon for crop production and manure utilization becomes a challenge as well as a source for pollution. Industrialized countries use these operations to produce much of the global supplies of poultry and pork. Scientists estimate that 75% of the growth in livestock production between 2003 and 2030 will be in confined animal feeding operations, sometimes called factory farming. Much of this growth is happening in developing countries in Asia, with much smaller amounts of growth in Africa. Some of the practices used in commercial livestock production, including the usage of growth hormones, are controversial.\n\nTillage is the practice of breaking up the soil with tools such as the plow or harrow to prepare for planting, for nutrient incorporation, or for pest control. Tillage varies in intensity from conventional to no-till. It may improve productivity by warming the soil, incorporating fertilizer and controlling weeds, but also renders soil more prone to erosion, triggers the decomposition of organic matter releasing CO, and reduces the abundance and diversity of soil organisms.\n\nPest control includes the management of weeds, insects, mites, and diseases. Chemical (pesticides), biological (biocontrol), mechanical (tillage), and cultural practices are used. Cultural practices include crop rotation, culling, cover crops, intercropping, composting, avoidance, and resistance. Integrated pest management attempts to use all of these methods to keep pest populations below the number which would cause economic loss, and recommends pesticides as a last resort.\n\nNutrient management includes both the source of nutrient inputs for crop and livestock production, and the method of utilization of manure produced by livestock. Nutrient inputs can be chemical inorganic fertilizers, manure, green manure, compost and minerals. Crop nutrient use may also be managed using cultural techniques such as crop rotation or a fallow period. Manure is used either by holding livestock where the feed crop is growing, such as in managed intensive rotational grazing, or by spreading either dry or liquid formulations of manure on cropland or pastures.\n\nWater management is needed where rainfall is insufficient or variable, which occurs to some degree in most regions of the world. Some farmers use irrigation to supplement rainfall. In other areas such as the Great Plains in the U.S. and Canada, farmers use a fallow year to conserve soil moisture to use for growing a crop in the following year. Agriculture represents 70% of freshwater use worldwide.\n\nAccording to a report by the International Food Policy Research Institute, agricultural technologies will have the greatest impact on food production if adopted in combination with each other; using a model that assessed how eleven technologies could impact agricultural productivity, food security and trade by 2050, the International Food Policy Research Institute found that the number of people at risk from hunger could be reduced by as much as 40% and food prices could be reduced by almost half.\n\nPayment for ecosystem services is a method of providing additional incentives to encourage farmers to conserve some aspects of the environment. Measures might include paying for reforestation upstream of a city, to improve the supply of fresh water.\n\nCrop alteration has been practiced by humankind for thousands of years, since the beginning of civilization. Altering crops through breeding practices changes the genetic make-up of a plant to develop crops with more beneficial characteristics for humans, for example, larger fruits or seeds, drought-tolerance, or resistance to pests. Significant advances in plant breeding ensued after the work of geneticist Gregor Mendel. His work on dominant and recessive alleles, although initially largely ignored for almost 50 years, gave plant breeders a better understanding of genetics and breeding techniques. Crop breeding includes techniques such as plant selection with desirable traits, self-pollination and cross-pollination, and molecular techniques that genetically modify the organism.\n\nDomestication of plants has, over the centuries increased yield, improved disease resistance and drought tolerance, eased harvest and improved the taste and nutritional value of crop plants. Careful selection and breeding have had enormous effects on the characteristics of crop plants. Plant selection and breeding in the 1920s and 1930s improved pasture (grasses and clover) in New Zealand. Extensive X-ray and ultraviolet induced mutagenesis efforts (i.e. primitive genetic engineering) during the 1950s produced the modern commercial varieties of grains such as wheat, corn (maize) and barley.\n\nThe Green Revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to sharply increase yield by creating \"high-yielding varieties\". For example, average yields of corn (maize) in the US have increased from around 2.5 tons per hectare (t/ha) (40 bushels per acre) in 1900 to about 9.4 t/ha (150 bushels per acre) in 2001. Similarly, worldwide average wheat yields have increased from less than 1 t/ha in 1900 to more than 2.5 t/ha in 1990. South American average wheat yields are around 2 t/ha, African under 1 t/ha, and Egypt and Arabia up to 3.5 to 4 t/ha with irrigation. In contrast, the average wheat yield in countries such as France is over 8 t/ha. Variations in yields are due mainly to variation in climate, genetics, and the level of intensive farming techniques (use of fertilizers, chemical pest control, growth control to avoid lodging).\n\nGenetically modified organisms (GMO) are organisms whose genetic material has been altered by genetic engineering techniques generally known as recombinant DNA technology. Genetic engineering has expanded the genes available to breeders to utilize in creating desired germlines for new crops. Increased durability, nutritional content, insect and virus resistance and herbicide tolerance are a few of the attributes bred into crops through genetic engineering. For some, GMO crops cause food safety and food labeling concerns. Numerous countries have placed restrictions on the production, import or use of GMO foods and crops. Currently a global treaty, the Biosafety Protocol, regulates the trade of GMOs. There is ongoing discussion regarding the labeling of foods made from GMOs, and while the EU currently requires all GMO foods to be labeled, the US does not.\n\nHerbicide-resistant seed has a gene implanted into its genome that allows the plants to tolerate exposure to herbicides, including glyphosate. These seeds allow the farmer to grow a crop that can be sprayed with herbicides to control weeds without harming the resistant crop. Herbicide-tolerant crops are used by farmers worldwide. With the increasing use of herbicide-tolerant crops, comes an increase in the use of glyphosate-based herbicide sprays. In some areas glyphosate resistant weeds have developed, causing farmers to switch to other herbicides. Some studies also link widespread glyphosate usage to iron deficiencies in some crops, which is both a crop production and a nutritional quality concern, with potential economic and health implications.\n\nOther GMO crops used by growers include insect-resistant crops, which have a gene from the soil bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt), which produces a toxin specific to insects. These crops resist damage by insects. Some believe that similar or better pest-resistance traits can be acquired through traditional breeding practices, and resistance to various pests can be gained through hybridization or cross-pollination with wild species. In some cases, wild species are the primary source of resistance traits; some tomato cultivars that have gained resistance to at least 19 diseases did so through crossing with wild populations of tomatoes.\n\nAgriculture imposes multiple external costs upon society through effects such as pesticide damage to nature (especially herbicides and insecticides), nutrient runoff, excessive water usage, and loss of natural environment. A 2000 assessment of agriculture in the UK determined total external costs for 1996 of £2,343 million, or £208 per hectare. A 2005 analysis of these costs in the US concluded that cropland imposes approximately $5 to $16 billion ($30 to $96 per hectare), while livestock production imposes $714 million. Both studies, which focused solely on the fiscal impacts, concluded that more should be done to internalize external costs. Neither included subsidies in their analysis, but they noted that subsidies also influence the cost of agriculture to society.\n\nAgriculture seeks to increase yield and to reduce costs. Yield increases with inputs such as fertilisers and removal of pathogens, predators, and competitors (such as weeds). Costs decrease with increasing scale of farm units, such as making fields larger; this means removing hedges, ditches and other areas of habitat. Pesticides kill insects, plants and fungi. These and other measures have cut biodiversity to very low levels on intensively farmed land.\n\nIn 2010, the International Resource Panel of the United Nations Environment Programme assessed the environmental impacts of consumption and production. It found that agriculture and food consumption are two of the most important drivers of environmental pressures, particularly habitat change, climate change, water use and toxic emissions. Agriculture is the main source of toxins released into the environment, including insecticides, especially those used on cotton. The 2011 UNEP Green Economy report states that \"[a]gricultural operations, excluding land use changes, produce approximately 13 per cent of anthropogenic global GHG emissions. This includes GHGs emitted by the use of inorganic fertilisers agro-chemical pesticides and herbicides; (GHG emissions resulting from production of these inputs are included in industrial emissions); and fossil fuel-energy inputs. \"On average we find that the total amount of fresh residues from agricultural and forestry production for second- generation biofuel production amounts to 3.8 billion tonnes per year between 2011 and 2050 (with an average annual growth rate of 11 per cent throughout the period analysed, accounting for higher growth during early years, 48 per cent for 2011–2020 and an average 2 per cent annual expansion after 2020).\"\nA senior UN official and co-author of a UN report detailing this problem, Henning Steinfeld, said \"Livestock are one of the most significant contributors to today's most serious environmental problems\". Livestock production occupies 70% of all land used for agriculture, or 30% of the land surface of the planet. It is one of the largest sources of greenhouse gases, responsible for 18% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions as measured in CO equivalents. By comparison, all transportation emits 13.5% of the CO. It produces 65% of human-related nitrous oxide (which has 296 times the global warming potential of CO) and 37% of all human-induced methane (which is 23 times as warming as CO.) It also generates 64% of the ammonia emission. Livestock expansion is cited as a key factor driving deforestation; in the Amazon basin 70% of previously forested area is now occupied by pastures and the remainder used for feedcrops. Through deforestation and land degradation, livestock is also driving reductions in biodiversity. Furthermore, the UNEP states that \"methane emissions from global livestock are projected to increase by 60 per cent by 2030 under current practices and consumption patterns.\"\n\nLand transformation, the use of land to yield goods and services, is the most substantial way humans alter the Earth's ecosystems, and is considered the driving force in the loss of biodiversity. Estimates of the amount of land transformed by humans vary from 39 to 50%. Land degradation, the long-term decline in ecosystem function and productivity, is estimated to be occurring on 24% of land worldwide, with cropland overrepresented. The UN-FAO report cites land management as the driving factor behind degradation and reports that 1.5 billion people rely upon the degrading land. Degradation can be deforestation, desertification, soil erosion, mineral depletion, or chemical degradation (acidification and salinization).\n\nEutrophication, excessive nutrients in aquatic ecosystems resulting in algal blooms and anoxia, leads to fish kills, loss of biodiversity, and renders water unfit for drinking and other industrial uses. Excessive fertilization and manure application to cropland, as well as high livestock stocking densities cause nutrient (mainly nitrogen and phosphorus) runoff and leaching from agricultural land. These nutrients are major nonpoint pollutants contributing to eutrophication of aquatic ecosystems and pollution of groundwater, with harmful effects on human populations. Fertilisers also reduce terrestrial biodiversity by increasing competition for light, favouring those species that are able to benefit from the added nutrients.\nAgriculture accounts for 70 percent of withdrawals of freshwater resources. Agriculture is a major draw on water from aquifers, and currently draws from those underground water sources at an unsustainable rate. It is long known that aquifers in areas as diverse as northern China, the Upper Ganges and the western US are being depleted, and new research extends these problems to aquifers in Iran, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. Increasing pressure is being placed on water resources by industry and urban areas, meaning that water scarcity is increasing and agriculture is facing the challenge of producing more food for the world's growing population with reduced water resources. Agricultural water usage can also cause major environmental problems, including the destruction of natural wetlands, the spread of water-borne diseases, and land degradation through salinization and waterlogging, when irrigation is performed incorrectly.\n\nPesticide use has increased since 1950 to 2.5million short tons annually worldwide, yet crop loss from pests has remained relatively constant. The World Health Organization estimated in 1992 that three million pesticide poisonings occur annually, causing 220,000 deaths. Pesticides select for pesticide resistance in the pest population, leading to a condition termed the \"pesticide treadmill\" in which pest resistance warrants the development of a new pesticide.\n\nAn alternative argument is that the way to \"save the environment\" and prevent famine is by using pesticides and intensive high yield farming, a view exemplified by a quote heading the Center for Global Food Issues website: 'Growing more per acre leaves more land for nature'. However, critics argue that a trade-off between the environment and a need for food is not inevitable, and that pesticides simply replace good agronomic practices such as crop rotation. The Push–pull agricultural pest management technique involves intercropping, using plant aromas to repel pests from crops (push) and to lure them to a place from which they can then be removed (pull).\n\nGlobal warming and agriculture are interrelated on a global scale. Global warming affects agriculture through changes in average temperatures, rainfall, and weather extremes (like storms and heat waves); changes in pests and diseases; changes in atmospheric carbon dioxide and ground-level ozone concentrations; changes in the nutritional quality of some foods; and changes in sea level. Global warming is already affecting agriculture, with effects unevenly distributed across the world. Future climate change will probably negatively affect crop production in low latitude countries, while effects in northern latitudes may be positive or negative. Global warming will probably increase the risk of food insecurity for some vulnerable groups, such as the poor.\n\nAnimal husbandry is also responsible for greenhouse gas production of and a percentage of the world's methane, and future land infertility, and the displacement of wildlife. Agriculture contributes to climate change by anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases, and by the conversion of non-agricultural land such as forest for agricultural use. Agriculture, forestry and land-use change contributed around 20 to 25% to global annual emissions in 2010. A range of policies can reduce the risk of negative climate change impacts on agriculture, and greenhouse gas emissions from the agriculture sector.\n\nCurrent farming methods have resulted in over-stretched water resources, high levels of erosion and reduced soil fertility. There is not enough water to continue farming using current practices; therefore how critical water, land, and ecosystem resources are used to boost crop yields must be reconsidered. A solution would be to give value to ecosystems, recognizing environmental and livelihood tradeoffs, and balancing the rights of a variety of users and interests. Inequities that result when such measures are adopted would need to be addressed, such as the reallocation of water from poor to rich, the clearing of land to make way for more productive farmland, or the preservation of a wetland system that limits fishing rights.\n\nTechnological advancements help provide farmers with tools and resources to make farming more sustainable. Technology permits innovations like conservation tillage, a farming process which helps prevent land loss to erosion, reduces water pollution, and enhances carbon sequestration.\n\nAccording to a report by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), agricultural technologies will have the greatest impact on food production if adopted in combination with each other; using a model that assessed how eleven technologies could impact agricultural productivity, food security and trade by 2050, IFPRI found that the number of people at risk from hunger could be reduced by as much as 40% and food prices could be reduced by almost half. The caloric demand of Earth's projected population, with current climate change predictions, can be satisfied by additional improvement of agricultural methods, expansion of agricultural areas, and a sustainability-oriented consumer mindset.\n\nSince the 1940s, agricultural productivity has increased dramatically, due largely to the increased use of energy-intensive mechanization, fertilizers and pesticides. The vast majority of this energy input comes from fossil fuel sources. Between the 1960s and the 1980s, the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, with world grain production increasing significantly (between 70% and 390% for wheat and 60% to 150% for rice, depending on geographic area) as world population doubled. Heavy reliance on petrochemicals has raised concerns that oil shortages could increase costs and reduce agricultural output.\n\nIndustrialized agriculture depends on fossil fuels in two fundamental ways: direct consumption on the farm and manufacture of inputs used on the farm. Direct consumption includes the use of lubricants and fuels to operate farm vehicles and machinery.\n\nIndirect consumption includes the manufacture of fertilizers, pesticides, and farm machinery. In particular, the production of nitrogen fertilizer can account for over half of agricultural energy usage. Together, direct and indirect consumption by US farms accounts for about 2% of the nation's energy use. Direct and indirect energy consumption by U.S. farms peaked in 1979, and has since gradually declined. Food systems encompass not just agriculture but off-farm processing, packaging, transporting, marketing, consumption, and disposal of food and food-related items. Agriculture accounts for less than one-fifth of food system energy use in the US.\n\nAgricultural economics refers to economics as it relates to the \"production, distribution and consumption of [agricultural] goods and services\". Combining agricultural production with general theories of marketing and business as a discipline of study began in the late 1800s, and grew significantly through the 20th century. Although the study of agricultural economics is relatively recent, major trends in agriculture have significantly affected national and international economies throughout history, ranging from tenant farmers and sharecropping in the post-American Civil War Southern United States to the European feudal system of manorialism. In the United States, and elsewhere, food costs attributed to food processing, distribution, and agricultural marketing, sometimes referred to as the value chain, have risen while the costs attributed to farming have declined. This is related to the greater efficiency of farming, combined with the increased level of value addition (e.g. more highly processed products) provided by the supply chain. Market concentration has increased in the sector as well, and although the total effect of the increased market concentration is likely increased efficiency, the changes redistribute economic surplus from producers (farmers) and consumers, and may have negative implications for rural communities.\n\nNational government policies can significantly change the economic marketplace for agricultural products, in the form of taxation, subsidies, tariffs and other measures. Since at least the 1960s, a combination of trade restrictions, exchange rate policies and subsidies have affected farmers in both the developing and the developed world. In the 1980s, non-subsidized farmers in developing countries experienced adverse effects from national policies that created artificially low global prices for farm products. Between the mid-1980s and the early 2000s, several international agreements limited agricultural tariffs, subsidies and other trade restrictions.\n\nHowever, , there was still a significant amount of policy-driven distortion in global agricultural product prices. The three agricultural products with the greatest amount of trade distortion were sugar, milk and rice, mainly due to taxation. Among the oilseeds, sesame had the greatest amount of taxation, but overall, feed grains and oilseeds had much lower levels of taxation than livestock products. Since the 1980s, policy-driven distortions have seen a greater decrease among livestock products than crops during the worldwide reforms in agricultural policy. Despite this progress, certain crops, such as cotton, still see subsidies in developed countries artificially deflating global prices, causing hardship in developing countries with non-subsidized farmers. Unprocessed commodities such as corn, soybeans, and cattle are generally graded to indicate quality, affecting the price the producer receives. Commodities are generally reported by production quantities, such as volume, number or weight.\n\nAgricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. It covers topics such as agronomy, plant breeding and genetics, plant pathology, crop modelling, soil science, entomology, production techniques and improvement, study of pests and their management, and study of adverse environmental effects such as soil degradation, waste management, and bioremediation.\n\nThe scientific study of agriculture began in the 18th century, when Johann Friedrich Mayer conducted experiments on the use of gypsum (hydrated calcium sulphate) as a fertilizer. Research became more systematic when in 1843, John Lawes and Henry Gilbert began a set of long-term agronomy field experiments at Rothamsted Research Station in England; some of them, such as the Park Grass Experiment, are still running. In America, the Hatch Act of 1887 provided funding for what it was the first to call \"agricultural science\", driven by farmers' interest in fertilizers. In agricultural entomology, the USDA began to research biological control in 1881; it instituted its first large program in 1905, searching Europe and Japan for natural enemies of the gypsy moth and brown-tail moth, establishing parasitoids (such as solitary wasps) and predators of both pests in the USA.\n\nAgricultural policy is the set of government decisions and actions relating to domestic agriculture and imports of foreign agricultural products. Governments usually implement agricultural policies with the goal of achieving a specific outcome in the domestic agricultural product markets. Some overarching themes include risk management and adjustment (including policies related to climate change, food safety and natural disasters), economic stability (including policies related to taxes), natural resources and environmental sustainability (especially water policy), research and development, and market access for domestic commodities (including relations with global organizations and agreements with other countries). Agricultural policy can also touch on food quality, ensuring that the food supply is of a consistent and known quality, food security, ensuring that the food supply meets the population's needs, and conservation. Policy programs can range from financial programs, such as subsidies, to encouraging producers to enroll in voluntary quality assurance programs.\n\nThere are many influences on the creation of agricultural policy, including consumers, agribusiness, trade lobbies and other groups. Agribusiness interests hold a large amount of influence over policy making, in the form of lobbying and campaign contributions. Political action groups, including those interested in environmental issues and labor unions, also provide influence, as do lobbying organizations representing individual agricultural commodities. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) leads international efforts to defeat hunger and provides a forum for the negotiation of global agricultural regulations and agreements. Dr. Samuel Jutzi, director of FAO's animal production and health division, states that lobbying by large corporations has stopped reforms that would improve human health and the environment. For example, proposals in 2010 for a voluntary code of conduct for the livestock industry that would have provided incentives for improving standards for health, and environmental regulations, such as the number of animals an area of land can support without long-term damage, were successfully defeated due to large food company pressure.\n\n"}
{"id": "24016510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24016510", "title": "Airborne disease", "text": "Airborne disease\n\nAn airborne disease is any disease that is caused by pathogens that can be transmitted through the air. Such diseases include many of considerable importance both in human and veterinary medicine. The relevant pathogens may be viruses, bacteria, or fungi, and they may be spread through breathing, talking, coughing, sneezing, raising of dust, spraying of liquids, toilet flushing or any activities which generates aerosol particles or droplets. Human airborne diseases do not include conditions caused by air pollution such as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), gasses and any airborne particles, though their study and prevention may help inform the science of airborne disease transmission.\n\nAirborne diseases include any that are caused via transmission through the air. Many airborne diseases are of great medical importance. The pathogens transmitted may be any kind of microbe, and they may be spread in aerosols, dust or liquids. The aerosols might be generated from sources of infection such as the bodily secretions of an infected animal or person, or biological wastes such as accumulate in lofts, caves, garbage and the like. Such infected aerosols may stay suspended in air currents long enough to travel for considerable distances, though the rate of infection decreases sharply with the distance between the source and the organism infected.\n\nAirborne pathogens or allergens often cause inflammation in the nose, throat, sinuses and the lungs. This is caused by the inhalation of these pathogens that affect a person's respiratory system or even the rest of the body. Sinus congestion, coughing and sore throats are examples of inflammation of the upper respiratory air way due to these airborne agents. Air pollution plays a significant role in airborne diseases which is linked to asthma. Pollutants are said to influence lung function by increasing air way inflammation.\n\nMany common infections can spread by airborne transmission at least in some cases, including: Anthrax (inhalational), Chickenpox, Influenza, Measles, Smallpox, Cryptococcosis, and Tuberculosis.\n\nAirborne diseases can also affect non-humans. For example, Newcastle disease is an avian disease that affects many types of domestic poultry worldwide which is transmitted via airborne contamination.\nOften, airborne pathogens or allergens cause inflammation in the nose, throat, sinuses, and the upper airway lungs. Upper airway inflammation causes coughing congestion, and sore throat. This is caused by the inhalation of these pathogens that affect a person's respiratory system or even the rest of the body. Sinus congestion, coughing and sore throats are examples of inflammation of the upper respiratory air way due to these airborne agents.\n\nAn airborne disease can be caused by exposure to a source: an infected patient or animal, by being transferred from the infected person or animal’s mouth, nose, cut, or needle puncture. People receive the disease through a portal of entry: mouth, nose, cut, or needle puncture.\n\nAirborne transmission of disease depends on several physical variables endemic to the infectious particle. Environmental factors influence the efficacy of airborne disease transmission; the most evident environmental conditions are temperature and relative humidity. The sum of all the factors that influence temperature and humidity, either meteorological (outdoor) or human (indoor), as well as other circumstances influencing the spread of the droplets containing the infectious particles, as winds, or human behavior, sum up the factors influencing the transmission of airborne diseases.\n\n\n\nSome ways to prevent airborne diseases include washing hands, using appropriate hand disinfection, getting regular immunizations against diseases believed to be locally present, wearing a respirator and limiting time spent in the presence of any patient likely to be a source of infection.\nExposure to a patient or animal with an airborne disease does not guarantee receiving the disease. Because of the changes in host immunity and how much the host was exposed to the particles in the air makes a difference to how the disease affects the body.\n\nAntibiotics are not prescribed for patients to control viral infections. They may however be prescribed to a flu patient for instance, to control or prevent bacterial secondary infections. They also may be used in dealing with air-borne bacterial primary infections, such as pneumonic plague.\n\nAdditionally the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has told consumers about vaccination and following careful hygiene and sanitation protocols for airborne disease prevention. Consumers also have access to preventive measures like UV Air purification devices that FDA and EPA-certified laboratory test data has verified as effective in inactivating a broad array of airborne infectious diseases. Many public health specialists recommend social distancing to reduce the transmission of airborne infections.\n\n"}
{"id": "30139580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30139580", "title": "Alajuela Lake", "text": "Alajuela Lake\n\nAlajuela Lake () is an artificial lake on the Chagres River created by the Madden Dam and linked to the Panama Canal. Lake Alajuela serves as a reservoir for the canal, which lies to the lake’s southwest. The Chagres, Pequení, Boquerón, Salamanca, La Puente, Indio, Piedras, San Cristóbal and Escandaloso rivers flow into the lake. The rivers of Lake Alajuela contribute 45 percent of the total water for the canal.\n\nThe reservoir was formerly known as Madden Lake when the Canal Zone was under U.S. administration and was renamed after control of the canal reverted to Panama.\n\nIn early December 2010, Lake Alajuela reached its highest recorded water level, prompting authorities to close the Panama Canal for 17 hours. The canal reopened on December 9.\n"}
{"id": "28164678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28164678", "title": "Andalusian Health Service", "text": "Andalusian Health Service\n\nThe Andalusian Health Service (, SAS), the government-run health system for the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain, was created under Ley 8/1986 de 6 de mayo (Spanish law 8/1986, 6 May 1986), as an autonomous agency attached to the Council of Health (\"Consejería de Salud\") of the Andalusian Autonomous Government, and belonging to the Andalusian Public Health System (\"Sistema Sanitario Público Andaluz\", SSPA). Part of the Spanish National Health System (\"Sistema Nacional de Salud\", SNS).\n\nAs of 1 January 2007, the SAS employs 83,132 professionals, 20,810 of them in primary care and 62,322 in specialized care.\n\nDecree 241/2004 establishes the basic organic structure of the Council of Health and the SAS. It is compose of the following directive centers:\n\n\nArticle 13.3 of Decree 241/2004 of 18 May establishes the functions of the SAS:\n\n\nIts functions are further delineated by:\n\nLey 2/1998 establishes a primary health care system for Andalusia. This is the first level of access for the people of Andalusia to the SSPA. Among its characteristic elements is the availability of integrated health services including preventive, curative and rehabilitative care. It is also responsible for the promotion of health, for health-related education, and for monitoring the environment with respect to health.\n\nAs of 1 January 2007 there are 1,452 primary care centers in Andalusia, located so that all citizens can readily reach such a center by public transport.\n\nThe smallest geographical unit used in organizing primary care services are the districts known as \"zonas básicas de salud\" (\"basic health zones\"). Each zone includes one or more primary care centers, offering health care to the population. A level up from these are districts with the organizational structures to plan, direct, manage and administer these. Most recently (as of 2010) these have been enumerated by 197/2007.\n\nAbove and beyond these are Health Management Areas (\"Áreas de Gestión Sanitaria), established by separate legislation:\n\n\nSpecialty care is defined under Ley 2/1998 as the second level of care. Specialty care provides the technical and human capabilities appropriate to diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation for conditions that cannot be handled at the primary level.\n\nIn coordination with the primary level, hospitals and their specialty centers form the necessary structure to provide this care. Ésta suele ser programada y urgente, desarrollando además funciones de promoción de la salud, prevención de enfermedades, asistencia curativa y rehabilitación, así como docencia e investigación.\nThis includes both scheduled and urgent care, and, like the primary care, encompasses health promotion, disease prevention, curative care and rehabilitation as well as teaching and research.\n\nSAS manages and operates 29 hospitals throughout Andalusia. In addition they manage and operate numerous more specialized facilities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36615810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36615810", "title": "Asia Catalyst", "text": "Asia Catalyst\n\nAsia Catalyst is an independent organization that builds strong civil society and advances the right to health for marginalized groups in Asia. It trains community-based organizations (CBOs) to meet high standards of effective and democratic governance, to establish a stable foundation for future growth, and to conduct rigorous human rights research and advocacy. It is an independent organization that places the needs of marginalized communities at the center of national, regional, and international policy making.\n\nSince its founding in 2006 by Sara L.M. Davis, the organization has opened offices in New York (United States), Beijing (China), and Bangkok (Thailand).\n\nAsia Catalyst works with community-based organizations (CBOs) from marginalized groups that work on the right to health. Its partners come from communities that often experience severe and systemic rights violations, and are unable to or unaware of how to conduct effective advocacy around these issues. Partner groups include people living with HIV (PLHIV) and Hepatitis, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people and men who have sex with men (MSM), sex workers, and people who use drugs.\n\nAsia Catalyst defines a community-based organization (CBO) as a civil society group that operates within a specific community or groups of communities. Asia Catalyst works only with CBOs that represent marginalized communities. It requires that partner organizations have at least one member of the marginalized community in a decision-making position within the organization. This is meant to \"ensure that the voices of marginalized communities are heard, and that Asia Catalyst's work focuses on the real, and most pressing, rights violations experienced.\"\n\nOver the course of Asia Catalyst's history, it has partnered with hundreds of CBOs in 11 Asian countries, including Cambodia, China, Myanmar, Thailand, Viet Nam, Nepal, The Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, and PNG.\n\nAsia Catalyst supports civil society development and empowerment through tailored capacity building, research, and advocacy on issues of most concern to marginalized communities in Asia.\n\nAsia Catalyst uses an innovative, responsive model to \"ensure community voice and need is at the heart of all programming.\" It incorporates a training-of-trainers methodology into all long-term programs to ensure sustainability, and continuously evaluates and adjusts its program approach to maximize impact and quality.\n\nAsia Catalyst has four main program areas: CBO Catalyst, Regional Rights Training, tailored coaching, and advocacy.\n\nAsia Catalyst believes that community based organizations (CBOs) are best positioned to conduct their own advocacy as they have a unique understanding of the circumstances in which they work and the communities they represent.\n\nAsia Catalyst’s seminal program, the CBO Catalyst, is a capacity building program for CBO leaders from marginalized groups in Asia. Over the course of one year, Asia Catalyst convenes a group of CBO leaders for capacity building workshops that merge organizational management skills with rights-based advocacy. Participants form lasting coalitions and conduct effective advocacy on their communities’ priority issues.\n\nAsia Catalyst's Regional Rights Training Program builds strong coalitions of like-minded CBOs through capacity building and implementation of human rights analysis, documentation and advocacy on a single thematic issues uniting CBOs across Asia.\n\nIn 2015 Asia Catalyst was supporting 16 representatives from eight CBOs from Cambodia, China, Myanmar, and Viet Nam to work on ending discrimination in health care settings against people living with HIV (PLHIV) across the region.\n\nAsia Catalyst provides specialized, issue-specific training to individual organizations and small groups with a specific skill-set need, such as strategic planning, fundraising, or volunteer management. Tailored Coaching for CBOs typically consist of two three-day workshops with Asia Catalyst over a period of 3–6 months. Between workshops, participant organizations complete assignments aimed at implementing the knowledge they have gained at workshops, with Asia Catalyst providing additional mentor support throughout the process.\n\nTailored coaching focuses especially on groups from marginalized communities, such as sex workers, drug users, LGBT people, and people living with HIV/AIDS. Much of the work has focused on grassroots groups in the People’s Republic of China, as well as groups in Korea, Thailand, and Myanmar (Burma). Asia Catalyst’s approach uses tools that have been developed in the field with input from their marginalized groups, and helps each group to develop strategic plans, project timelines, budgets, and volunteer management systems. Once this foundation is established, groups may be assisted in developing rights documentation and advocacy projects, working on such issues as discrimination, criminalization and access to health services. Asia Catalyst trains groups to advocate with local and national officials, the United Nations, and to participate in international meetings.\n\nAsia Catalyst partners with local groups in China to conduct qualitative research to document human rights abuses that affect the right to health. These reports draw on international human rights standards and local laws to make policy recommendations. Asia Catalyst’s advocacy work has focused on compensation for victims of the HIV blood disaster, as well as discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS, and rights issues facing people who use drugs and sex workers.\n\nAdvocacy projects have been successful in achieving media attention. Asia Catalyst's December 2013 report on Custody and Education, an arbitrary detention system for female sex workers in China, was featured on the front page of the \"New York Times\", as well as in prominent Asian and international newspapers including \"The Guardian\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", The South China Morning Post, and The Taipei Times. Its December 2014 research on the living conditions of transgender female sex workers in Beijing and Shanghai was also published in the LGBTQ Policy Journal at the Harvard Kennedy School.\n\nAsia Catalyst is governed by a board of directors, which provides support and guidance for program direction and development. The board is led by Chair and Treasurer Yvonne Y. F. Chan, and includes Minky Worden of Human Rights Watch and Sara L.M. Davis, the organization's first executive director.\n\nAsia Catalyst's executive director is Charmain Mohamed, a respected and experienced human rights advocate and activist, who has lived and worked in Asia for most of 15 years. She has worked for the UN, Human Rights Watch and the Norwegian Refugee Council, both in emergency contexts and on long-term issues, in countries such as Indonesia, East Timor, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and, most recently in Palestine. She holds a Masters in Human Rights Law from the School of Oriental and African Studies in London and a BA (Hons.) in Southeast Asian Studies and Indonesian Language from the University of Hull. Charmain is fluent in English, Indonesian and Malay.\n\nAsia Catalyst, a 501(c)3 registered charity in the United States, undergoes an independent audit annually and files information returns with various governmental regulatory agencies. The organization’s resources come from contributions from individuals, foundations, and government funding.\n\nAmong its most significant past and present supporters are the Open Society Foundation, The Levi Strauss Foundation, National Endowment for Democracy, the Swedish International Development Agency, the German Embassy in Beijing, UNAIDS, and the U.S. State Department Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.\n"}
{"id": "214164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=214164", "title": "Baby M", "text": "Baby M\n\nBaby M (born March 27, 1986) was the pseudonym used in the case \"In re Baby M\", 537 A.2d 1227, 109 N.J. 396 (N.J. 1988) for the infant whose legal parentage was in question.\n\n\"In re Baby M\" was a custody case that became the first American court ruling on the validity of surrogacy. William Stern entered into a surrogacy agreement with Mary Beth Whitehead, whom he and his wife Elizabeth Stern found through a newspaper ad. According to the agreement, Mary Beth Whitehead would be inseminated with William Stern's sperm (making her a traditional, as opposed to gestational, surrogate), bring the pregnancy to term, and relinquish her parental rights in favor of William's wife, Elizabeth. After the birth, however, Mary Beth decided to keep the child. She and her husband kidnapped the infant. William and Elizabeth Stern then sued to be recognized as the child's legal parents.\n\nThe New Jersey court ruled that the surrogacy contract was invalid according to public policy, recognized Mary Beth Whitehead as the child's legal mother, and ordered the Family Court to determine whether Whitehead, as mother, or Stern, as father, should have legal custody of the infant, using the conventional 'best interests of the child' analysis. Stern was awarded custody, with Whitehead having visitation rights.\n\nAt birth, Mary Beth Whitehead named Baby M. Sara Elizabeth Whitehead. She was later renamed Melissa Elizabeth Stern, after William Stern was awarded legal custody.\n\nIn March 1984, Mary Beth Whitehead responded to an ad placed by the Infertility Center of New York in the Asbury Park Press seeking women willing to help infertile couples have children. She was a high school drop-out who had married Richard Whitehead, a truck driver who at roughly the time of her pregnancy with Baby M, did not notice losing a trailer carrying a full-sized bulldozer which uncoupled from the trailer hitch on large dump truck he was driving as he passed through South Jersey’s largest traffic circle (removed in the mid-1990s), his excessive drinking said to have contributed, with whom she had two children, Ryan and Tuesday.\n\nDr. Elizabeth Stern was not infertile, but had multiple sclerosis and she and her husband Dr. William Stern, were worried about the potential health implications of pregnancy, including temporary paralysis. and transmitting genes that might make a child with 50% of her genes at risk of contracting the same illness.\n\nThe Sterns and Mary Beth Whitehead entered into a \"surrogacy contract,\" according to which Whitehead would be artificially inseminated with Stern’s sperm, and relinquish her all rights in favor of The Sterns, in return for $10,000, possibly expenses. While tabloids, daily, and weekly, TV “tabloid” style shows and “slicks”, of which Time Inc.’s “People” topped a list which slid downhill to magazines published by The National Enquirer’s parent firm claimed the Sterns made their choice simply by looking at her picture, this was not a part of the initial Family Court proceedings. \n\nAccording to the initial decision, overruled, Ms. Whitehead would be considered a traditional surrogate, as opposed to a gestational surrogate, because she was the genetic mother of the child. The Sterns, both M.D.s, feared Elizabeth’s eggs might carry genes making any child she parented subject to the possibility of developing MS. While in vitro fertilization of harvested eggs, followed by implantatation of a blastula/embryo was an available technology, Elizabeth Stern feared the then-totally-unknown genetic risk factors, the choice repeatedly subject of the Court’s questions to Stern and his counsel.\n\nOn March 27, 1986, Ms. Whitehead gave birth to a daughter, she attempted to name, and managed, initially, to get a birth certificate the infant Sara Elizabeth Whitehead and at first a birth certificate was issued in that name Three days after birth, days later, The infant was handed to The Sterns, who renamed her Melissa Elizabeth Stern. However, within three days of transferring physical custody to the Sterns, Whitehead, went to them and demanded that the baby be given back to her, allegedly threatening suicide. The Whiteheads, though claiming Ms. Whitehead was suffering a debilitating post-partum bladder infection at the time kidnapped Melissa, and left New Jersey, taking the infant with her. The Sterns’ counsel applied for, and the country prosecutor issued warrants the for their arrest.\n\nOn March 31, 1987, New Jersey Superior Court Judge Harvey R. Sorkow formally validated the surrogacy contract and awarded custody of Melissa to the Sterns under a \"best interest of the child analysis\". During about a year of visits ordered previously by the Family Court, and visits allowed under the final decision, Ms. Whitehead took several actions either to claim the child, or incite the Sterns, including returning her wearing a hand-lettered shirt saying “I have a brother and sister”. \n\nOn February 3, 1988, however, the Supreme Court of New Jersey, led by Chief Justice Robert Wilentz, invalidated surrogacy contracts as against public policy but \"in dicta\" affirmed the trial court's use of a \"best interest of the child\" analysis and remanded the case to family court. On remand, the lower court awarded custody to the Sterns and Whitehead was given visitation rights.\n\nThe case attracted much attention as it demonstrated that the possibilities of third party reproduction raise novel legal and social questions about the meaning of parenthood and the possibility of contracting around issues of pregnancy and childbirth.\n\nAmong other points of contention, feminists argued about whether a woman's basic human right to make decisions about her own body implied the ability to contract away parental rights to a child born to her, or whether recognizing such a right would entail too great risks of exploitation.\n\nThe New Jersey court's finding that no contract can alter the legal position of a woman who bears a child as that child's mother seemed to settle the question of the status of surrogacy contracts in America, at least until technological advances permitting gestational surrogacy—in which a woman can bear and birth a child to whom she has no genetic relation—reopened the question in many jurisdictions.\n\nAt least in New Jersey, however, the Baby M. ruling continues as precedent. In 2009, New Jersey Superior Court ruled that \"In re Baby M\" applies to gestational surrogacy as well as traditional surrogacy cases, in \"A.G.R. v. D.R.H & S.H.\". The intended parents were a homosexual male couple. They created an embryo using an anonymous donor ovum and the sperm of one of the husbands. The sister of the other husband carried the embryo to term and originally delivered the child to her brother and his husband, but a year later asserted her own parental rights even though she was not genetically related to the child. Judge Francis Schultz relied on \"In re Baby M\" to recognize the gestational mother as the child's legal mother. However, a later ruling in 2011 awarded full custody to the biological father.\n\nAfter reaching the age of maturity in March 2004, Melissa Stern legally terminated Mary Beth's parental rights and formalized Elizabeth's maternity through adoption proceedings. When the controversy died down, Whitehead divorced her husband, remarried to Dean Gould, and had two more children, Austin and Morgan.\n\n\"I love my family very much and am very happy to be with them,\" Melissa told a reporter for the \"New Jersey Monthly\", referring to the Sterns in 2004. \"I'm very happy I ended up with them. I love them, they're my best friends in the whole world, and that's all I have to say about it.\"\n\nThe biological mother, Ms. Whitehead, wrote a book about her experience in 1989.\n\nAn ABC Network miniseries, simply titled \"Baby M\", was broadcast in May 1988. The miniseries starred JoBeth Williams as Mary Beth Whitehead, John Shea as William, Bruce Weitz as Mary Beth's husband Rick, Robin Strasser as Elizabeth and Dabney Coleman as Gary Skoloff. The miniseries received seven Emmy nominations, including Outstanding Miniseries, which it did not win. Williams, Shea, Weitz, and Coleman all received nominations for their performances, but only Shea won. Williams also was nominated for a Golden Globe for her performance.\n\nIn 1989, Mary Beth Whitehead published her own book about her experiences, \"A Mother's Story: The Truth About the Baby M Case\".\n\nIn 1988 artist Martha Rosler made the video \"Born to be Sold: Martha Rosler Reads the Strange Case of Baby M\".\n\nMary Beth Whitehead is referenced in the Seinfeld episode \"The Bottle Deposit\", when Jerry's mechanic (played by Brad Garrett) steals Jerry's car after he feels that Jerry isn't caring for it properly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1482042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482042", "title": "Balmis Expedition", "text": "Balmis Expedition\n\nThe Balmis Expedition (1803–1806) was a three-year mission to Spanish America and Asia led by Dr. Francisco Javier de Balmis with the aim of vaccinating millions against smallpox. Vaccination, a much safer way to prevent smallpox than older methods such as inoculation, had been introduced by the English physician Edward Jenner in 1798.\n\nThe Balmis expedition, officially called Real Expedición Filantrópica de la Vacuna (Royal Philanthropic Vaccine Expedition), set off from A Coruña on 30 November 1803. It may be considered the first international healthcare expedition in history. Jenner himself wrote, \"I don't imagine the annals of history furnish an example of philanthropy so noble, so extensive as this.\"\n\nKing Charles IV of Spain supported his royal doctor Balmis since his Infanta Maria Teresa, his daughter, had died from the illness. The expedition sailed on \"Maria Pita\" and carried 22 orphan boys (aged 8 to 10) as successive carriers of the virus; Balmis, a deputy surgeon, two assistants, two first-aid practitioners, three nurses, and Isabel Zendal Gómez, the rectoress of \"Casa de Expósitos\", an A Coruña orphanage.\n\nThe mission took the vaccine to the Canary Islands, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Mexico, the Philippines and China. The ship carried also scientific instruments and translations of the \"Historical and Practical Treatise on the Vaccine\" by Moreau de Sarthe to be distributed to the local vaccine commissions to be founded.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, the local population had already been inoculated from the Danish colony of Saint Thomas. In Venezuela, the expedition divided at La Guayra. José Salvany, the deputy surgeon, went toward today's Colombia and the Viceroyalty of Peru (Venezuela, Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, and Bolivia). They took seven years and the toils of the voyage brought death to Salvany (Cochabamba, 1810). Balmis went to Caracas and later to Havana. The local poet Andrés Bello wrote an ode to Balmis. In New Spain, Balmis took 25 orphans to maintain the infection during the crossing of the Pacific. In the Philippines, they received help from the Catholic church, which was initially reluctant until Governor-General Rafael Aguilar made an example by vaccinating his five children. Balmis sent most of the expedition back to New Spain while he went on to China, where he visited Macau and Canton. On his way back to Spain, Balmis convinced the British authorities of Saint Helena (1806) to be vaccinated.\n\nJulia Alvarez wrote a fictional account of the expedition from the perspective of its only female member in \"Saving the World\" (2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "18582186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18582186", "title": "Benzene", "text": "Benzene\n\nBenzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula CH. The benzene molecule is composed of six carbon atoms joined in a ring with one hydrogen atom attached to each. As it contains only carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.\n\nBenzene is a natural constituent of crude oil and is one of the elementary petrochemicals. Due to the cyclic continuous pi bond between the carbon atoms, benzene is classed as an aromatic hydrocarbon, the second [\"n\"]-annulene ([6]-annulene). It is sometimes abbreviated PhH. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a sweet smell, and is responsible for the aroma around petrol (gas) stations. It is used primarily as a precursor to the manufacture of chemicals with more complex structure, such as ethylbenzene and cumene, of which billions of kilograms are produced annually. As benzene has a high octane number, aromatic derivatives like toluene and xylene typically comprise up to 25% of gasoline (petrol). Benzene itself has been limited to less than 1% in gasoline because it is a known human carcinogen. Most non-industrial applications have been limited as well for the same reason.\n\nThe word \"benzene\" derives from \"gum benzoin\" (benzoin resin), an aromatic resin known to European pharmacists and perfumers since the 15th century as a product of southeast Asia. An acidic material was derived from benzoin by sublimation, and named \"flowers of benzoin\", or benzoic acid. The hydrocarbon derived from benzoic acid thus acquired the name benzin, benzol, or benzene. Michael Faraday first isolated and identified benzene in 1825 from the oily residue derived from the production of illuminating gas, giving it the name \"bicarburet of hydrogen\". In 1833, Eilhard Mitscherlich produced it by distilling benzoic acid (from gum benzoin) and lime. He gave the compound the name \"benzin\". In 1836, the French chemist Auguste Laurent named the substance \"phène\"; this word has become the root of the English word \"phenol\", which is hydroxylated benzene, and \"phenyl\", the radical formed by abstraction of a hydrogen atom (free radical H•) from benzene.\nIn 1845, Charles Mansfield, working under August Wilhelm von Hofmann, isolated benzene from coal tar. Four years later, Mansfield began the first industrial-scale production of benzene, based on the coal-tar method. Gradually, the sense developed among chemists that a number of substances were chemically related to benzene, comprising a diverse chemical family. In 1855, Hofmann used the word \"aromatic\" to designate this family relationship, after a characteristic property of many of its members. In 1997, benzene was detected in deep space.\n\nThe empirical formula for benzene was long known, but its highly polyunsaturated structure, with just one hydrogen atom for each carbon atom, was challenging to determine. Archibald Scott Couper in 1858 and Joseph Loschmidt in 1861 suggested possible structures that contained multiple double bonds or multiple rings, but too little evidence was then available to help chemists decide on any particular structure.\n\nIn 1865, the German chemist Friedrich August Kekulé published a paper in French (for he was then teaching in Francophone Belgium) suggesting that the structure contained a ring of six carbon atoms with alternating single and double bonds. The next year he published a much longer paper in German on the same subject. Kekulé used evidence that had accumulated in the intervening years—namely, that there always appeared to be only one isomer of any monoderivative of benzene, and that there always appeared to be exactly three isomers of every disubstituted derivative—now understood to correspond to the ortho, meta, and para patterns of arene substitution—to argue in support of his proposed structure. Kekulé's symmetrical ring could explain these curious facts, as well as benzene's 1:1 carbon-hydrogen ratio.\n\nThe new understanding of benzene, and hence of all aromatic compounds, proved to be so important for both pure and applied chemistry that in 1890 the German Chemical Society organized an elaborate appreciation in Kekulé's honor, celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of his first benzene paper. Here Kekulé spoke of the creation of the theory. He said that he had discovered the ring shape of the benzene molecule after having a reverie or day-dream of a snake seizing its own tail (this is a common symbol in many ancient cultures known as the Ouroboros or Endless knot). This vision, he said, came to him after years of studying the nature of carbon-carbon bonds. This was 7 years after he had solved the problem of how carbon atoms could bond to up to four other atoms at the same time. Curiously, a similar, humorous depiction of benzene had appeared in 1886 in a pamphlet entitled \"Berichte der Durstigen Chemischen Gesellschaft\" (Journal of the Thirsty Chemical Society), a parody of the \"Berichte der Deutschen Chemischen Gesellschaft\", only the parody had monkeys seizing each other in a circle, rather than snakes as in Kekulé's anecdote. Some historians have suggested that the parody was a lampoon of the snake anecdote, possibly already well known through oral transmission even if it had not yet appeared in print. Kekulé's 1890 speech in which this anecdote appeared has been translated into English. If the anecdote is the memory of a real event, circumstances mentioned in the story suggest that it must have happened early in 1862.\n\nThe cyclic nature of benzene was finally confirmed by the crystallographer Kathleen Lonsdale in 1929.\n\nThe German chemist Wilhelm Körner suggested the prefixes ortho-, meta-, para- to distinguish di-substituted benzene derivatives in 1867; however, he did not use the prefixes to distinguish the relative positions of the substituents on a benzene ring. It was the German chemist Karl Gräbe who, in 1869, first used the prefixes ortho-, meta-, para- to denote specific relative locations of the substituents on a di-substituted aromatic ring (viz, naphthalene). In 1870, the German chemist Viktor Meyer first applied Gräbe's nomenclature to benzene.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, benzene was used as an after-shave lotion because of its pleasant smell. Prior to the 1920s, benzene was frequently used as an industrial solvent, especially for degreasing metal. As its toxicity became obvious, benzene was supplanted by other solvents, especially toluene (methylbenzene), which has similar physical properties but is not as carcinogenic.\n\nIn 1903, Ludwig Roselius popularized the use of benzene to decaffeinate coffee. This discovery led to the production of Sanka. This process was later discontinued. Benzene was historically used as a significant component in many consumer products such as Liquid Wrench, several paint strippers, rubber cements, spot removers, and other products. Manufacture of some of these benzene-containing formulations ceased in about 1950, although Liquid Wrench continued to contain significant amounts of benzene until the late 1970s.\n\nTrace amounts of benzene are found in petroleum and coal. It is a byproduct of the incomplete combustion of many materials. For commercial use, until World War II, most benzene was obtained as a by-product of coke production (or \"coke-oven light oil\") for the steel industry. However, in the 1950s, increased demand for benzene, especially from the growing polymers industry, necessitated the production of benzene from petroleum. Today, most benzene comes from the petrochemical industry, with only a small fraction being produced from coal.\n\nX-ray diffraction shows that all six carbon-carbon bonds in benzene are of the same length, at 140 picometres (pm) . The C–C bond lengths are greater than a double bond (135 pm) but shorter than a single bond (147 pm). This intermediate distance is consistent with electron delocalization: the electrons for C–C bonding are distributed equally between each of the six carbon atoms. Benzene has 6 hydrogen atoms – fewer than the corresponding parent alkane, hexane. The molecule is planar. The molecular orbital description involves the formation of three delocalized π orbitals spanning all six carbon atoms, while the valence bond description involves a superposition of resonance structures. It is likely that this stability contributes to the peculiar molecular and chemical properties known as aromaticity. To accurately reflect the nature of the bonding, benzene is often depicted with a circle inside a hexagonal arrangement of carbon atoms.\n\nDerivatives of benzene occur sufficiently often as a component of organic molecules that the Unicode Consortium has allocated a symbol in the Miscellaneous Technical block with the code U+232C (⌬) to represent it with three double bonds, and U+23E3 (⏣) for a delocalized version.\n\nMany important chemical compounds are derived from benzene by replacing one or more of its hydrogen atoms with another functional group. Examples of simple benzene derivatives are phenol, toluene, and aniline, abbreviated PhOH, PhMe, and PhNH, respectively. Linking benzene rings gives biphenyl, CH–CH. Further loss of hydrogen gives \"fused\" aromatic hydrocarbons, such as naphthalene and anthracene. The limit of the fusion process is the hydrogen-free allotrope of carbon, graphite.\n\nIn heterocycles, carbon atoms in the benzene ring are replaced with other elements. The most important variations contain nitrogen. Replacing one CH with N gives the compound pyridine, CHN. Although benzene and pyridine are \"structurally\" related, benzene cannot be converted into pyridine. Replacement of a second CH bond with N gives, depending on the location of the second N, pyridazine, pyrimidine, and pyrazine.\n\nFour chemical processes contribute to industrial benzene production: catalytic reforming, toluene hydrodealkylation, toluene disproportionation, and steam cracking. According to the ATSDR Toxicological Profile for benzene, between 1978 and 1981, catalytic reformats accounted for approximately 44–50% of the total U.S benzene production.\n\nIn catalytic reforming, a mixture of hydrocarbons with boiling points between 60–200 °C is blended with hydrogen gas and then exposed to a bifunctional platinum chloride or rhenium chloride catalyst at 500–525 °C and pressures ranging from 8–50 atm. Under these conditions, aliphatic hydrocarbons form rings and lose hydrogen to become aromatic hydrocarbons. The aromatic products of the reaction are then separated from the reaction mixture (or reformate) by extraction with any one of a number of solvents, including diethylene glycol or sulfolane, and benzene is then separated from the other aromatics by distillation. The extraction step of aromatics from the reformate is designed to produce aromatics with lowest non-aromatic components. Recovery of the aromatics, commonly referred to as BTX (benzene, toluene and xylene isomers), involves such extraction and distillation steps. There are a good many licensed processes available for extraction of the aromatics.\n\nIn similar fashion to this catalytic reforming, UOP and BP commercialized a method from LPG (mainly propane and butane) to aromatics.\n\nToluene hydrodealkylation converts toluene to benzene. In this hydrogen-intensive process, toluene is mixed with hydrogen, then passed over a chromium, molybdenum, or platinum oxide catalyst at 500–600 °C and 40–60 atm pressure. Sometimes, higher temperatures are used instead of a catalyst (at the similar reaction condition). Under these conditions, toluene undergoes dealkylation to benzene and methane:\n\nThis irreversible reaction is accompanied by an equilibrium side reaction that produces\nbiphenyl (aka diphenyl) at higher temperature:\n\nIf the raw material stream contains much non-aromatic components (paraffins or naphthenes), those are likely decomposed to lower hydrocarbons such as methane, which increases the consumption of hydrogen.\n\nA typical reaction yield exceeds 95%. Sometimes, xylenes and heavier aromatics are used in place of toluene, with similar efficiency.\n\nThis is often called \"on-purpose\" methodology to produce benzene, compared to conventional BTX (benzene-toluene-xylene) extraction processes.\n\nWhere a chemical complex has similar demands for both benzene and xylene, then toluene disproportionation (TDP) may be an attractive alternative to the toluene hydrodealkylation. In the broad sense, two toluene molecules are reacted and the methyl groups rearranged from one toluene molecule to the other, yielding one benzene molecule and one xylene molecule.\n\nGiven that demand for \"para\"-xylene (\"p\"-xylene) substantially exceeds demand for other xylene isomers, a refinement of the TDP process called Selective TDP (STDP) may be used. In this process, the xylene stream exiting the TDP unit is approximately 90% paraxylene. In some current catalytic systems, even the benzene-to-xylenes ratio is decreased (more xylenes) when the demand of xylenes is higher.\n\nSteam cracking is the process for producing ethylene and other alkenes from aliphatic hydrocarbons. Depending on the feedstock used to produce the olefins, steam cracking can produce a benzene-rich liquid by-product called \"pyrolysis gasoline\". Pyrolysis gasoline can be blended with other hydrocarbons as a gasoline additive, or routed through an extraction process to recover BTX aromatics (benzene, toluene and xylenes).\n\nAlthough of no commercial significance, many other routes to benzene exist. Phenol and halobenzenes can be reduced with metals. Benzoic acid and its salts undergo decarboxylation to benzene. Via the reaction the diazonium compound with hypophosphorus acid aniline gives benzene. Trimerization of acetylene gives benzene.\n\nBenzene is used mainly as an intermediate to make other chemicals, above all ethylbenzene, cumene, cyclohexane, nitrobenzene, and alkylbenzene. More than half of the entire benzene production is processed into ethylbenzene, a precursor to styrene, which is used to make polymers and plastics like polystyrene and EPS. Some 20% of the benzene production is used to manufacture cumene, which is needed to produce phenol and acetone for resins and adhesives. Cyclohexane consumes c. 10% of the world's benzene production; it is primarily used in the manufacture of nylon fibers, which are processed into textiles and engineering plastics. Smaller amounts of benzene are used to make some types of rubbers, lubricants, dyes, detergents, drugs, explosives, and pesticides. In 2013, the biggest consumer country of benzene was China, followed by the USA. Benzene production is currently expanding in the Middle East and in Africa, whereas production capacities in Western Europe and North America are stagnating.\n\nToluene is now often used as a substitute for benzene, for instance as a fuel additive. The solvent-properties of the two are similar, but toluene is less toxic and has a wider liquid range. Toluene is also processed into benzene.\n\nAs a gasoline (petrol) additive, benzene increases the octane rating and reduces knocking. As a consequence, gasoline often contained several percent benzene before the 1950s, when tetraethyl lead replaced it as the most widely used antiknock additive. With the global phaseout of leaded gasoline, benzene has made a comeback as a gasoline additive in some nations. In the United States, concern over its negative health effects and the possibility of benzene's entering the groundwater have led to stringent regulation of gasoline's benzene content, with limits typically around 1%. European petrol specifications now contain the same 1% limit on benzene content. The United States Environmental Protection Agency introduced new regulations in 2011 that lowered the benzene content in gasoline to 0.62%.\nIn many European languages, the word for petroleum or gasoline is an exact cognate of \"benzene\".\n\nThe most common reactions of benzene involve substitution of a proton by other groups. Electrophilic aromatic substitution is a general method of derivatizing benzene. Benzene is sufficiently nucleophilic that it undergoes substitution by acylium ions and alkyl carbocations to give substituted derivatives.\n\nThe most widely practiced example of this reaction is the ethylation of benzene.\nApproximately 24,700,000 tons were produced in 1999.\nHighly instructive but of far less industrial significance is the Friedel-Crafts alkylation of benzene (and many other aromatic rings) using an alkyl halide in the presence of a strong Lewis acid catalyst. Similarly, the Friedel-Crafts acylation is a related example of electrophilic aromatic substitution. The reaction involves the acylation of benzene (or many other aromatic rings) with an acyl chloride using a strong Lewis acid catalyst such as aluminium chloride or Iron(III) chloride.\n\nUsing electrophilic aromatic substitution, many functional groups are introduced onto the benzene framework. Sulfonation of benzene involves the use of oleum, a mixture of sulfuric acid with sulfur trioxide. Sulfonated benzene derivatives are useful detergents. In nitration, benzene reacts with nitronium ions (NO), which is a strong electrophile produced by combining sulfuric and nitric acids. Nitrobenzene is the precursor to aniline. Chlorination is achieved with chlorine to give chlorobenzene in the presence of a catalyst such as aluminium tri-chloride.\n\nVia hydrogenation, benzene and its derivatives convert to cyclohexane and derivatives. This reaction is achieved by the use of high pressures of hydrogen in the presence of heterogeneous catalysts, such as finely divided nickel. Whereas alkenes can be hydrogenated near room temperatures, benzene and related compounds are more reluctant substrates, requiring temperatures >100 °C. This reaction is practiced on a large scale industrially. In the absence of the catalyst, benzene is impervious to hydrogen. Hydrogenation cannot be stopped to give cyclohexene or cyclohexadienes as these are superior substrates. Birch reduction, a non catalytic process, however selectively hydrogenates benzene to the diene.\n\nBenzene is an excellent ligand in the organometallic chemistry of low-valent metals. Important examples include the sandwich and half-sandwich complexes, respectively, Cr(CH) and [RuCl(CH)].\n\nBenzene is classified as a carcinogen, which increases the risk of cancer and other illnesses, and is also a notorious cause of bone marrow failure. Substantial quantities of epidemiologic, clinical, and laboratory data link benzene to aplastic anemia, acute leukemia, bone marrow abnormalities and cardiovascular disease. The specific hematologic malignancies that benzene is associated with include: acute myeloid leukemia (AML), aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).\n\nThe American Petroleum Institute (API) stated in 1948 that \"it is generally considered that the only absolutely safe concentration for benzene is zero\". There is no safe exposure level; even tiny amounts can cause harm. The US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) classifies benzene as a human carcinogen. Long-term exposure to excessive levels of benzene in the air causes leukemia, a potentially fatal cancer of the blood-forming organs. In particular, acute myeloid leukemia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia (AML & ANLL) is not disputed to be caused by benzene. IARC rated benzene as \"known to be carcinogenic to humans\" (Group 1).\n\nAs benzene is ubiquitous in gasoline and hydrocarbon fuels are in use everywhere, human exposure to benzene is a global health problem. Benzene targets liver, kidney, lung, heart and the brain and can cause DNA strand breaks, chromosomal damage, etc. Benzene causes cancer in animals including humans. Benzene has been shown to cause cancer in both sexes of multiple species of laboratory animals exposed via various routes.\n\nAccording to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) (2007), benzene is both an anthropogenically produced and naturally occurring chemical from processes that include: volcanic eruptions, wild fires, synthesis of chemicals such as phenol, production of synthetic fibers, and fabrication of rubbers, lubricants, pesticides, medications, and dyes. The major sources of benzene exposure are tobacco smoke, automobile service stations, exhaust from motor vehicles, and industrial emissions; however, ingestion and dermal absorption of benzene can also occur through contact with contaminated water. Benzene is hepatically metabolized and excreted in the urine. Measurement of air and water levels of benzene is accomplished through collection via activated charcoal tubes, which are then analyzed with a gas chromatograph. The measurement of benzene in humans can be accomplished via urine, blood, and breath tests; however, all of these have their limitations because benzene is rapidly metabolized in the human body.\n\nExposure to benzene may lead progressively to aplastic anemia, leukaemia, and multiple myeloma.\n\nOSHA regulates levels of benzene in the workplace. The maximum allowable amount of benzene in workroom air during an 8-hour workday, 40-hour workweek is 1 ppm. As benzene can cause cancer, NIOSH recommends that all workers wear special breathing equipment when they are likely to be exposed to benzene at levels exceeding the recommended (8-hour) exposure limit of 0.1 ppm.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency has set a maximum contaminant level (MCL) for benzene in drinking water at 0.005 mg/L (5 ppb), as promulgated via the U.S. National Primary Drinking Water Regulations. This regulation is based on preventing benzene leukemogenesis. The maximum contaminant level goal (MCLG), a nonenforceable health goal that would allow an adequate margin of safety for the prevention of adverse effects, is zero benzene concentration in drinking water. The EPA requires that spills or accidental releases into the environment of 10 pounds (4.5 kg) or more of benzene be reported.\n\nThe U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set a permissible exposure limit of 1 part of benzene per million parts of air (1 ppm) in the workplace during an 8-hour workday, 40-hour workweek. The short term exposure limit for airborne benzene is 5 ppm for 15 minutes. These legal limits were based on studies demonstrating compelling evidence of health risk to workers exposed to benzene. The risk from exposure to 1 ppm for a working lifetime has been estimated as 5 excess leukemia deaths per 1,000 employees exposed. (This estimate assumes no threshold for benzene's carcinogenic effects.) OSHA has also established an action level of 0.5 ppm to encourage even lower exposures in the workplace.\n\nThe U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) revised the Immediately Dangerous to Life and Health (IDLH) concentration for benzene to 500 ppm. The current NIOSH definition for an IDLH condition, as given in the NIOSH Respirator Selection Logic, is one that poses a threat of exposure to airborne contaminants when that exposure is likely to cause death or immediate or delayed permanent adverse health effects or prevent escape from such an environment [NIOSH 2004]. The purpose of establishing an IDLH value is (1) to ensure that the worker can escape from a given contaminated environment in the event of failure of the respiratory protection equipment and (2) is considered a maximum level above which only a highly reliable breathing apparatus providing maximum worker protection is permitted [NIOSH 2004]. In September 1995, NIOSH issued a new policy for developing recommended exposure limits (RELs) for substances, including carcinogens. As benzene can cause cancer, NIOSH recommends that all workers wear special breathing equipment when they are likely to be exposed to benzene at levels exceeding the REL (10-hour) of 0.1 ppm. The NIOSH short-term exposure limit (STEL – 15 min) is 1 ppm.\n\nAmerican Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) adopted Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) for benzene at 0.5 ppm TWA and 2.5 ppm STEL.\n\nSeveral tests can determine exposure to benzene. Benzene itself can be measured in breath, blood or urine, but such testing is usually limited to the first 24 hours post-exposure due to the relatively rapid removal of the chemical by exhalation or biotransformation. Most people in developed countries have measureable baseline levels of benzene and other aromatic petroleum hydrocarbons in their blood. In the body, benzene is enzymatically converted to a series of oxidation products including muconic acid, phenylmercapturic acid, phenol, catechol, hydroquinone and 1,2,4-trihydroxybenzene. Most of these metabolites have some value as biomarkers of human exposure, since they accumulate in the urine in proportion to the extent and duration of exposure, and they may still be present for some days after exposure has ceased. The current ACGIH biological exposure limits for occupational exposure are 500 μg/g creatinine for muconic acid and 25 μg/g creatinine for phenylmercapturic acid in an end-of-shift urine specimen.\n\nEven if it is not a common substrate for metabolism, benzene can be oxidized by both bacteria and eukaryotes. In bacteria, dioxygenase enzyme can add an oxygen to the ring, and the unstable product is immediately reduced (by NADH) to a cyclic diol with two double bonds, breaking the aromaticity. Next, the diol is newly reduced by NADH to catechol. The catechol is then metabolized to acetyl CoA and succinyl CoA, used by organisms mainly in the Krebs Cycle for energy production.\n\nThe pathway for the metabolism of benzene is complex and begins in the liver. Several enzymes are involved. These include cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), quinine oxidoreductase (NQ01), GSH, and myeloperoxidase (MPO). CYP2E1 is involved at multiple steps: converting benzene to oxepin (benzene oxide), phenol to hydroquinone, and hydroquinone to both benzenetriol and catechol. Hydroquinone, benzenetriol and catechol are converted to polyphenols. In the bone marrow, MPO converts these polyphenols to benzoquinones. These intermediates and metabolites induce genotoxicity by multiple mechanisms including inhibition of topoisomerase II (which maintains chromosome structure), disruption of microtubules (which maintains cellular structure and organization), generation of oxygen free radicals (unstable species) that may lead to point mutations, increasing oxidative stress, inducing DNA strand breaks, and altering DNA methylation (which can affect gene expression). NQ01 and GSH shift metabolism away from toxicity. NQ01 metabolizes benzoquinone toward polyphenols (counteracting the effect of MPO). GSH is involved with the formation of phenylmercapturic acid.\n\nGenetic polymorphisms in these enzymes may induce loss of function or gain of function. For example, mutations in CYP2E1 increase activity and result in increased generation of toxic metabolites. NQ01 mutations result in loss of function and may result in decreased detoxification. Myeloperoxidase mutations result in loss of function and may result in decreased generation of toxic metabolites. GSH mutations or deletions result in loss of function and result in decreased detoxification. These genes may be targets for genetic screening for susceptibility to benzene toxicity.\n\nThe paradigm of toxicological assessment of benzene is shifting towards the domain of molecular toxicology as it allows understanding of fundamental biological mechanisms in a better way. Glutathione seems to play an important role by protecting against benzene-induced DNA breaks and it is being identified as a new biomarker for exposure and effect. Benzene causes chromosomal aberrations in the peripheral blood leukocytes and bone marrow explaining the higher incidence of leukemia and multiple myeloma caused by chronic exposure. These aberrations can be monitored using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) with DNA probes to assess the effects of benzene along with the hematological tests as markers of hematotoxicity. Benzene metabolism involves enzymes coded for by polymorphic genes. Studies have shown that genotype at these loci may influence susceptibility to the toxic effects of benzene exposure. Individuals carrying variant of NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), microsomal epoxide hydrolase (EPHX) and deletion of the glutathione S-transferase T1 (GSTT1) showed a greater frequency of DNA single-stranded breaks.\n\nOne way of understanding the carcinogenic effects of benzene is by examining the products of biological oxidation. Pure benzene, for example, oxidizes in the body to produce an epoxide, benzene oxide, which is not excreted readily and can interact with DNA to produce harmful mutations.\n\nOutdoor air may contain low levels of benzene from automobile service stations, wood smoke, tobacco smoke, the transfer of gasoline, exhaust from motor vehicles, and industrial emissions. About 50% of the entire nationwide (United States) exposure to benzene results from smoking tobacco or from exposure to tobacco smoke. After smoking 32 cigarettes per day, the smoker would take in about 1.8 milligrams (mg) of benzene. This amount is about 10 times the average daily intake of benzene by nonsmokers.\n\nInhaled benzene is primarily expelled unchanged through exhalation. In a human study 16.4 to 41.6% of retained benzene was eliminated through the lungs within five to seven hours after a two- to three-hour exposure to 47 to 110 ppm and only 0.07 to 0.2% of the remaining benzene was excreted unchanged in the urine. After exposure to 63 to 405 mg/m3 of benzene for 1 to 5 hours, 51 to 87% was excreted in the urine as phenol over a period of 23 to 50 hours. In another human study, 30% of absorbed dermally applied benzene, which is primarily metabolized in the liver, was excreted as phenol in the urine.\n\nUnder specific conditions and in the presence of other chemicals benzoic acid (a preservative) and ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) may interact to produce benzene. In March 2006, the official Food Standards Agency in Britain conducted a survey of 150 brands of soft drinks. It found that four contained benzene levels above World Health Organization limits. The affected batches were removed from sale. Similar problems were reported by the FDA in the United States.\n\nIn 2005, the water supply to the city of Harbin in China with a population of almost nine million people, was cut off because of a major benzene exposure. Benzene leaked into the Songhua River, which supplies drinking water to the city, after an explosion at a China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) factory in the city of Jilin on 13 November 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331004", "title": "Bill W.", "text": "Bill W.\n\nWilliam Griffith Wilson (November 26, 1895 – January 24, 1971), also known as Bill Wilson or Bill W., was the co-founder of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). \n\nAA is an international mutual aid fellowship with about 2 million members worldwide belonging to approximately 10,000 groups, associations, organizations, cooperatives, and fellowships of alcoholics helping other alcoholics achieve and maintain sobriety. Following AA's Twelfth Tradition of anonymity, Wilson is commonly known as \"Bill W.\" or \"Bill.\" In order to communicate among one another, members of \"AA\" will often ask those who appear to be suffering or having a relapse from alcoholism if they are \"friends with Bill\". Although this question can be confusing, because \"Bill\" is a common name, it does provide a means of establishing a rapport with those who are familiar with the saying and in need of help. After Wilson's death in 1971, and amidst much controversy within the fellowship, his full name was included in obituaries by journalists who were unaware of the significance for maintaining anonymity within the organization.\n\nWilson's sobriety from alcohol, which he maintained until his passing, began December 11, 1934. In 1955 Wilson turned over control of AA to a board of trustees. Wilson died of emphysema complicated by pneumonia in 1971. In 1999 \"Time\" listed him as \"Bill W.: The Healer\" in the .\n\nWilson was born on November 26, 1895, in East Dorset, Vermont, the son of Emily (née Griffith) and Gilman Barrows Wilson. He was born at his parents' home and business, the Mount Aeolus Inn and Tavern. His paternal grandfather, William C. Wilson, was also an alcoholic. William C. Wilson decided to stop drinking alcohol immediately after having a \"religious experience\" when he was under the influence of psilocybin ( ) during a \"soul searching\" hike on Mount Aeolus. His grandson, Bill, also felt a very strong desire to stop drinking shortly after sharing a similar experience.\n\nBoth of Bill's parents abandoned him soon after he and his sister were born—his father never returned from a purported business trip, and his mother left Vermont to study osteopathic medicine. Bill and his sister were raised by their maternal grandparents, Fayette and Ella Griffith. As a teen, Bill showed little interest in his academic studies and was rebellious. During a summer break in high school, he spent months designing and carving a boomerang to throw at birds, raccoons, and other local wildlife. After many difficult years during his early-mid teens, Bill became the captain of his high school's football team, and the principal violinist in its orchestra. Bill also dealt with a serious bout of depression at the age of seventeen, following the death of his first love, Bertha Bamford, who died of complications from surgery.\n\nWilson met his wife Lois Burnham during the summer of 1913, while sailing on Vermont's Emerald Lake; two years later the couple became engaged. He entered Norwich University, but depression and panic attacks forced him to leave during his second semester. The next year he returned, but was soon suspended with a group of students involved in a hazing incident. Because no one would take responsibility, and no one would identify the perpetrators, the entire class was punished.\n\nThe June 1916 incursion into the U.S. by Pancho Villa resulted in Wilson's class being mobilized as part of the Vermont National Guard and he was reinstated to serve. The following year he was commissioned as an artillery officer. During military training in Massachusetts, the young officers were often invited to dinner by the locals, and Wilson had his first drink, a glass of beer, to little effect. A few weeks later at another dinner party, Wilson drank some Bronx cocktails, and felt at ease with the guests and liberated from his awkward shyness; \"I had found the elixir of life,\" he wrote. \"Even that first evening I got thoroughly drunk, and within the next time or two I passed out completely. But as everyone drank hard, not too much was made of that.\"\n\nWilson married Lois on January 24, 1918, just before he left to serve in World War I as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Coast Artillery. After his military service, Wilson returned to live with his wife in New York. He failed to graduate from law school because he was too drunk to pick up his diploma. Wilson became a stock speculator and had success traveling the country with his wife, evaluating companies for potential investors. (During these trips Lois had a hidden agenda: she hoped the travel would keep Wilson from drinking.) However, Wilson's constant drinking made business impossible and ruined his reputation.\n\nIn 1933 Wilson was committed to the Charles B. Towns Hospital for Drug and Alcohol Addictions in New York City four times under the care of Dr. William D. Silkworth. Silkworth's theory was that alcoholism was a matter of both physical and mental control: a craving, the manifestation of a physical allergy (the physical inability to stop drinking once started) and an obsession of the mind (to take the first drink). Wilson gained hope from Silkworth's assertion that alcoholism was a medical condition, but even that knowledge could not help him. He was eventually told that he would either die from his alcoholism or have to be locked up permanently due to \"Wernicke encephalopathy\" (commonly referred to as \"wet brain\").\n\nIn November 1934, Wilson was visited by old drinking companion Ebby Thacher. Wilson was astounded to find that Thacher had been sober for several weeks under the guidance of the evangelical Christian Oxford Group. Wilson took some interest in the group, but shortly after Thacher's visit, he was again admitted to Towns Hospital to recover from a bout of drinking. This was his fourth and last stay at Towns hospital under Doctor Silkworth's care and he showed signs of delirium tremens. It was while undergoing treatment with The Belladonna Cure that Wilson experienced his \"Hot Flash\" spiritual conversion and quit drinking. Earlier that evening, Thacher had visited and tried to persuade him to turn himself over to the care of a Christian deity who would liberate him from alcohol. According to Wilson, while lying in bed depressed and despairing, he cried out, \"I'll do anything! Anything at all! If there be a God, let Him show Himself!\" He then had the sensation of a bright light, a feeling of ecstasy, and a new serenity. He never drank again for the remainder of his life. Wilson described his experience to Dr. Silkworth, who told him, \"Something has happened to you I don't understand. But you had better hang on to it\".\n\nWilson joined the Oxford Group and tried to help other alcoholics, but succeeded only in keeping sober himself. During a failed business trip to Akron, Ohio, Wilson was tempted to drink again and decided that to remain sober he needed to help another alcoholic. He called phone numbers in a church directory and eventually secured an introduction to Dr. Bob Smith, an alcoholic Oxford Group member. Wilson explained Doctor Silkworth's theory that alcoholics suffer from a physical allergy and a mental obsession. Wilson shared that the only way he was able to stay sober was through having had a spiritual experience. Smith was familiar with the tenets of the Oxford Group and upon hearing Wilson's experience, \"began to pursue the spiritual remedy for his malady with a willingness that he had never before been able to muster. After a brief relapse, he sobered, never to drink again up to the moment of his death in 1950\". Wilson and Smith began working with other alcoholics. After that summer in Akron, Wilson returned to New York where he began having success helping alcoholics in what they called \"a nameless squad of drunks\" in an Oxford Group there.\n\nIn 1938, after about 100 alcoholics in Akron and New York had become sober, the fellowship decided to promote its program of recovery through the publication of a book, for which Wilson was chosen as primary author. The book was given the title \"Alcoholics Anonymous\" and included the list of suggested activities for spiritual growth known as the Twelve Steps. The movement itself took on the name of the book. Later Wilson also wrote the Twelve Traditions, a set of spiritual guidelines to ensure the survival of individual AA groups. The AA general service conference of 1955 was a landmark event for Wilson in which he turned over the leadership of the maturing organization to an elected board.\n\nIn 1939, Wilson and Marty Mann visited High Watch Farm in Kent, CT. They would go on to found what is now High Watch Recovery Center, the world's first alcohol and addiction recovery center founded on Twelve Step principles.\n\nWilson strongly advocated that AA groups have not the \"slightest reform of political complexion\". In 1946, he wrote \"No AA group or members should ever, in such a way as to implicate AA, express any opinion on outside controversial issues -- particularly those of politics, alcohol reform or sectarian religion. The Alcoholics Anonymous groups oppose no one. Concerning such matters they can express no views whatever. \" Reworded, this became \"Tradition 10\" for AA.\n\nDuring the last years of his life, Wilson rarely attended AA meetings to avoid being asked to speak as the co-founder rather than as an alcoholic. A heavy smoker, Wilson eventually suffered from emphysema and later pneumonia. He continued to smoke while dependent on an oxygen tank in the late 1960s. He drank no alcohol for the final 37 years of his life; however, in the last days of his life he made demands for whiskey and became belligerent when refused. During this period, Wilson was visited by colleagues and friends who wanted to say goodbye. Wilson died of emphysema and pneumonia on January 24, 1971, en route to treatment in Miami, Florida. He is buried in East Dorset, Vermont.\n\nThough Wilson alluded to unfulfilled temptation in an account in the \"Alcoholics Anonymous\" \"Big Book\" (\"There had been no real infidelity,\" he wrote, \"for loyalty to my wife, helped at times by extreme drunkenness, kept me out of those scrapes.\"), biographers Francis Hartigan, Matthew Raphael, and Susan Cheever cite claims that Wilson had sexual contacts outside of his marriage.\n\nFrancis Hartigan, AA biographer and personal secretary to Lois Wilson, in his book states that in the mid 1950s Bill began an affair with Helen Wynn, a woman 22 years his junior. Bill at one point discussed divorcing Lois to marry Helen. Bill eventually overcame the AA trustees' objections, and renegotiated his royalty agreements with them in 1963, which allowed him to include Helen Wynn in his estate. He left 10 percent of his book royalties to her and the other 90 percent to his wife Lois. In 1968, with Bill's illness making it harder for them to spend time together, Helen bought a house in Ireland.\n\nPersonal letters between Wilson and his wife Lois spanning a period of more than 60 years can be found in the archives at Stepping Stones, their former home in Katonah, New York, and in AA's General Service Office archives in New York.\n\nIn the 1950s Wilson used LSD in medically supervised experiments with Betty Eisner, Gerald Heard, and Aldous Huxley. With Wilson's invitation, his wife Lois, his spiritual adviser Father Ed Dowling, and Nell Wing also participated in experimentation of this drug. Later Wilson wrote to Carl Jung, praising the results and recommending it as validation of Jung's spiritual experience. (The letter was not in fact sent as Jung had died.) According to Wilson, the session allowed him to re-experience a spontaneous spiritual experience he had had years before, which had enabled him to overcome his own alcoholism.\n\nBill was enthusiastic about his experience; he felt it helped him eliminate many barriers erected by the self, or ego, that stand in the way of one's direct experience of the cosmos and of God. He thought he might have found something that could make a big difference to the lives of many who still suffered. Bill is quoted as saying: \"It is a generally acknowledged fact in spiritual development that ego reduction makes the influx of God's grace possible. If, therefore, under LSD we can have a temporary reduction, so that we can better see what we are and where we are going — well, that might be of some help. The goal might become clearer. So I consider LSD to be of some value to some people, and practically no damage to anyone. It will never take the place of any of the existing means by which we can reduce the ego, and keep it reduced.\" Wilson felt that regular usage of LSD in a carefully controlled, structured setting would be beneficial for many recovering alcoholics. However, he felt this method only should be attempted by individuals with well-developed super-egos.\n\nIn 1957 Wilson wrote a letter to Heard saying: \"I am certain that the LSD experiment has helped me very much. I find myself with a heightened colour perception and an appreciation of beauty almost destroyed by my years of depressions.\" Most AAs were strongly opposed to his experimenting with a mind-altering substance.\n\nWilson met Abram Hoffer and learned about the potential mood-stabilizing effects of niacin. Wilson was impressed with experiments indicating that alcoholics who were given niacin had a better sobriety rate, and he began to see niacin \"as completing the third leg in the stool, the physical to complement the spiritual and emotional.\" Wilson also believed that niacin had given him relief from depression, and he promoted the vitamin within the AA community and with the National Institute of Mental Health as a treatment for schizophrenia. However, Wilson created a major furor in AA because he used the AA office and letterhead in his promotion.\n\nFor Wilson, spiritualism was a lifelong interest. One of his letters to adviser Father Dowling suggests that while Wilson was working on his book \"Twelve Steps and Twelve Traditions\", he felt that spirits were helping him, in particular a 15th-century monk named Boniface. Despite his conviction that he had evidence for the reality of the spirit world, Wilson chose not to share this with AA. However, his practices still created controversy within the AA membership. Wilson and his wife continued with their unusual practices in spite of the misgivings of many AA members. In their house they had a \"spook room\" where they would invite guests to participate in seances using a Ouija board.\n\nAlcoholics Anonymous has over 100,000 registered local groups and over 2 million active members worldwide.\n\nWilson has often been described as having loved being the center of attention, but after the AA principle of anonymity had become established, he refused an honorary degree from Yale University and refused to allow his picture, even from the back, on the cover of \"Time\". Wilson's persistence, his ability to take and use good ideas, and his entrepreneurial flair are revealed in his pioneering escape from an alcoholic \"death sentence,\" his central role in the development of a program of spiritual growth, and his leadership in creating and building AA, \"an independent, entrepreneurial, maddeningly democratic, non-profit organization.\"\n\nWilson is perhaps best known as a synthesizer of ideas, the man who pulled together various threads of psychology, theology, and democracy into a workable and life-saving system. Aldous Huxley called him \"the greatest social architect of our century,\" and \"Time\" magazine named Wilson to their \"Time 100 List of The Most Important People of the 20th Century\". Wilson's self-description was a man who, \"because of his bitter experience, discovered, slowly and through a conversion experience, a system of behavior and a series of actions that work for alcoholics who want to stop drinking.\"\n\nBiographer Susan Cheever wrote in \"My Name Is Bill\", \"Bill Wilson never held himself up as a model: he only hoped to help other people by sharing his own experience, strength and hope. He insisted again and again that he was just an ordinary man\".\n\nWilson bought a house that he and Lois called Stepping Stones on an estate in Bedford Hills, New York, in 1941, and he lived there with Lois until he died in 1971. After Lois died in 1988, the house was opened for tours and is now on the National Register of Historic Places; it was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2012.\n\nOver the years, Bill W., the formation of AA and also his wife Lois have been the subject of numerous projects, starting with \"My Name Is Bill W.\", a 1989 CBS Hallmark Hall of Fame TV movie starring James Woods as Bill W. and James Garner as Dr. Bob. Woods won an Emmy for his portrayal of Wilson. He was also depicted in a 2010 TV movie based on Lois' life, \"\", adapted from a 2005 book of the same name written by William G. Borchert. The film starred Winona Ryder as Lois Wilson and Barry Pepper as Bill W.\n\nA 2012 documentary, \"Bill W.\", was directed by Dan Carracino and Kevin Hanlon.\n\nThe band Dream Theater dedicated each song of their \"Twelve-step Suite\" to Bill W.\n\nIn season five, episode one, of \"The Sopranos\", Chris Moltisanti is seen reading \"My Search for Bill W.\"\n\nSeason 3 of Mystery Science Theater 3000 included Bill W. in the \"Special Thanks\" section of the end credits.\n\nThe band El Ten Eleven's song \"Thanks Bill\" is dedicated to Bill W. since lead singer Kristian Dunn's wife got sober due to AA. He states \"If she hadn't gotten sober we probably wouldn't be together, so that's my thank you to Bill Wilson who invented AA\". \n\nIn Michael Graubart's Sober Songs Vol. 1, the song \"Hey, Hey, AA\" references Bill's encounter with Ebby Thatcher which started him on the path to recovery and eventually the creation of Alcoholics Anonymous. The lyric reads, \"Ebby T. comes strolling in. Bill says, 'Fine, you're a friend of mine. Don't mind if I drink my gin.'\" \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6503821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6503821", "title": "Biological value", "text": "Biological value\n\nBiological value (BV) is a measure of the proportion of absorbed protein from a food which becomes incorporated into the proteins of the organism's body. It captures how readily the digested protein can be used in protein synthesis in the cells of the organism. Proteins are the major source of nitrogen in food. BV assumes protein is the only source of nitrogen and measures the proportion of this nitrogen absorbed by the body which is then excreted. The remainder must have been incorporated into the proteins of the organisms body. A ratio of nitrogen incorporated into the body over nitrogen absorbed gives a measure of protein \"usability\" – the BV.\n\nUnlike some measures of protein usability, biological value does not take into account how readily the protein can be digested and absorbed (largely by the small intestine). This is reflected in the experimental methods used to determine BV.\n\nBV uses two similar scales:\nThese two values will be similar but not identical.\n\nThe BV of a food varies greatly, and depends on a wide variety of factors. In particular the BV value of a food varies depending on its preparation and the recent diet of the organism. This makes reliable determination of BV difficult and of limited use — fasting prior to testing is universally required in order to ascertain reliable figures.\n\nBV is commonly used in nutrition science in many mammalian organisms, and is a relevant measure in humans. It is a popular guideline in bodybuilding in protein choice.\n\nFor accurate determination of BV:\nThese conditions mean the tests are typically carried out over the course of over one week with strict diet control. Fasting prior to testing helps produce consistency between subjects (it removes recent diet as a variable).\n\nThere are two scales on which BV is measured; percentage utilization and relative utilization. By convention percentage BV has a percent sign (%) suffix and relative BV has no unit.\n\nBiological value is determined based on this formula.\n\nWhere:\n\nHowever direct measurement of \"N\" is essentially impossible. It will typically be measured indirectly from nitrogen excretion in urine. Faecal excretion of nitrogen must also be taken into account - this part of the ingested protein is not absorbed by the body and so not included in the calculation of BV. An estimate is used of the amount of the urinary and faecal nitrogen excretion not coming from ingested nitrogen. This may be done by substituting a protein-free diet and observing nitrogen excretion in urine or faeces, but the accuracy of this method of estimation of the amount of nitrogen excretion not coming from ingested nitrogen on a protein-containing diet has been questioned.\nWhere:\n\nNote:\n\nThis can take any value from 0 to 100, though reported BV could be out of this range if the estimates of nitrogen excretion from non-ingested sources are inaccurate, such as could happen if the endogenous secretion changes with protein intake. A BV of 100% indicates complete utilization of a dietary protein, i.e. 100% of the protein ingested and absorbed is incorporated into proteins into the body. The value of 100% is an absolute maximum, no more than 100% of the protein ingested can be utilized (in the equation above \"N\" and \"N\" cannot go negative, setting 100% as the maximum BV).\n\nDue to experimental limitations BV is often measured \"relative\" to an easily utilizable protein. Normally egg protein is assumed to be the most readily utilizable protein and given a BV of 100. For example:\n\nTwo tests of BV are carried out on the same person; one with the test protein source and one with a reference protein (egg protein).\nWhere:\n\nThis is not restricted to values of less than 100. The percentage BV of egg protein is only 93.7% which allows other proteins with true percentage BV between 93.7% and 100% to take a relative BV of over 100. For example, whey protein takes a relative BV of 104, while its percentage BV is under 100%.\n\nThe principal advantage of measuring BV relative to another protein diet is accuracy; it helps account for some of the metabolic variability between individuals. In a simplistic sense the egg diet is testing the maximum efficiency the individual can take up protein, the BV is then provided as a percentage taking this as the maximum.\n\nProviding it is known which protein measurements were made relative to it is simple to convert from relative BV to percentage BV:\nWhere:\n\nWhile this conversion is simple it is not strictly valid due to the differences between the experimental methods. It is, however, suitable for use as a guideline.\n\nThe determination of BV is carefully designed to accurately measure some aspects of protein usage whilst eliminating variation from other aspects. When using the test (or considering BV values) care must be taken to ensure the variable of interest is quantified by BV. Factors which affect BV can be grouped into properties of the protein source and properties of the species or individual consuming the protein.\n\nThree major properties of a protein source affect its BV:\n\nAmino acid composition is the principal effect. All proteins are made up of combinations of the 21 biological amino acids. Some of these can be synthesised or converted in the body, whereas others cannot and must be ingested in the diet. These are known as essential amino acids (EAAs), of which there are 9 in humans. The number of EAAs varies according to species (see below).\n\nEAAs missing from the diet prevent the synthesis of proteins that require them. If a protein source is missing critical EAAs, then its biological value will be low as the missing EAAs form a bottleneck in protein synthesis. For example, if a hypothetical muscle protein requires phenylalanine (an essential amino acid), then this must be provided in the diet for the muscle protein to be produced. If the current protein source in the diet has no phenylalanine in it the muscle protein cannot be produced, giving a low usability and BV of the protein source.\n\nIn a related way if amino acids are missing from the protein source which are particularly slow or energy consuming to synthesise this can result in a low BV.\n\nMethods of food preparation also affect the availability of amino acids in a food source. Some of food preparation may damage or destroy some EAAs, reducing the BV of the protein source.\n\nMany vitamins and minerals are vital for the correct function of cells in the test organism. If critical minerals or vitamins are missing from the protein source this can result in a massively lowered BV. Many BV tests artificially add vitamins and minerals (for example in yeast extract) to prevent this.\n\nVariations in BV under test conditions are dominated by the metabolism of the individuals or species being tested. In particular differences in the essential amino acids (EAAs) species to species has a significant effect, although even minor variations in amino acid metabolism individual to individual have a large effect.\n\nThe fine dependence on the individual's metabolism makes measurement of BV a vital tool in diagnosing some metabolic diseases.\n\nThe principal effect on BV in everyday life is the organism's current diet, although many other factors such as age, health, weight, sex, etc. all have an effect. In short any condition which can affect the organism's metabolism will vary the BV of a protein source.\n\nIn particular, whilst on a high protein diet the BV of all foods consumed is reduced — the limiting rate at which the amino acids may be incorporated into the body is not the availability of amino acids but the rate of protein synthesis possible in cells. This is a major point of criticism of BV as a test; the test diet is artificially protein rich and may have unusual effects.\n\nBV is designed to ignore variation in digestibility of a food — which in turn largely depends on the food preparation. For example, compare raw soy beans and extracted soy bean protein. The raw soy beans, with tough cell walls protecting the protein, have a far lower digestibility than the purified, unprotected, soy bean protein extract. As a foodstuff far more protein can be absorbed from the extract than the raw beans, however the BV will be the same.\n\nThe exclusion of digestibility is a point of misunderstanding and leads to misrepresentation of the meaning of a high or low BV\n\nBV provides a good measure of the usability of proteins in a diet and also plays a valuable role in detection of some metabolic diseases. BV is, however, a scientific variable determined under very strict and unnatural conditions. It is not a test designed to evaluate the usability of proteins whilst an organism is in everyday life — indeed the BV of a diet will vary greatly depending on age, weight, health, sex, recent diet, current metabolism, etc. of the organism. In addition BV of the same food varies significantly species to species. Given these limitations BV is still relevant to everyday diet to some extent. No matter the individual or their conditions a protein source with high BV, such as egg, will always be more easily used than a protein source with low BV.\n\nThere are many other major methods of determining how readily used a protein is, including:\nThese all hold specific advantages and disadvantages over BV, although in the past BV has been held in high regard.\n\nThe Biological Value method is also used for analysis in animals such as cattle, poultry, and various laboratory animals such as rats. It was used by the poultry industry to determine which mixtures of feed were utilized most efficiently by developing chicken.\nAlthough the process remains the same, the biological values of particular proteins in humans differs from their biological values in animals due to physiological variations.\n\nCommon foodstuffs and their values: (Note: this scale uses 100 as 100% of the nitrogen incorporated.)\n\nCommon foodstuffs and their values: (Note: These values use \"whole egg\" as a value of 100, so foodstuffs that provide even more nitrogen than whole eggs, can have a value of more than 100. 100, does not mean that 100% of the nitrogen in the food is incorporated into the body, and not excreted, as in other charts.)\nBy combining different foods it is possible to maximize the score, because the different components favor each other:\n\nSince the method measures only the amount that is retained in the body critics have pointed out what they perceive as a weakness of the biological value methodology. \nCritics have pointed to research that indicates that because whey protein isolate is digested so quickly it may in fact enter the bloodstream and be converted into carbohydrates through a process called gluconeogenesis much more rapidly than was previously thought possible, so while amino acid concentrations increased with whey it was discovered that oxidation rates also increased and a steady-state metabolism, a process where there is no change in overall protein balance, is created. They claim that when the human body consumes whey protein it is absorbed so rapidly that most of it is sent to the liver for oxidation. Hence they believe the reason so much is retained is that it is used for energy production, not protein synthesis. This would bring into question whether the method defines which proteins are more biologically utilizable.\n\nA further critique published in the \"Journal of Sports Science and Medicine\" states that the BV of a protein does not take into consideration several key factors that influence the digestion and interaction of protein with other foods before absorption, and that it only measures a protein's maximal potential quality and not its estimate at requirement levels. Also, the study by Poullain et al., which is often cited to demonstrate the superiority of whey protein hydrolysate by marketers, measured nitrogen balance in rats after three days of starvation, which corresponds to a longer period in humans. The study found that whey protein hydrolysate led to better nitrogen retention and growth than the other proteins studied. However the study's flaw is in the BV method used, as starvation affects how well the body will store incoming protein (as does a very high caloric intake), leading to falsely elevated BV measures.\n\nSo, the BV of a protein is related to the amount of protein given. BV is measured at levels below the maintenance level. This means that as protein intake goes up, the BV of that protein goes down. For example, milk protein shows a BV near 100 at intakes of 0.2 g/kg. As protein intake increases to roughly maintenance levels, 0.5 g/kg, BV drops only around 70. Pellet et al., concluded that \"biological measures of protein quality conducted at suboptimal levels in either experimental animals or human subjects may overestimate protein value at maintenance levels.\" As a result, while BV may be important for rating proteins where intake is below requirements, it has little bearing on individuals with protein intakes far above requirements.\n\nThis flaw is supported by the FAO/WHO/UNU, who state that BV and NPU are measured when the protein content of the diet is clearly below that of requirement, deliberately done to maximize existing differences in quality as inadequate energy intake lowers the efficiency of protein utilization and in most N balance studies, calorie adequacy is ensured. And because no population derives all of its protein exclusively from a single food, the determination of BV of a single protein is of limited use for application to human protein requirements.\n\nAnother limitation of the use of Biological Value as a measure of protein quality is that proteins which are completely devoid of one essential amino acid (EAA) can still have a BV of up to 40. This is because of the ability of organisms to conserve and recycle EAAs as an adaptation of inadequate intake of the amino acid.\n\nLastly, the use of rats for the determination of protein quality is not ideal. Rats differ from humans in requirements of essential amino acids. This has led to a general criticism that experiments on rats lead to an over-estimation of the BV of high-quality proteins to man because human requirements of essential amino acids are much lower than those for rats (as rats grow at a much faster rate than humans). Also, because of their fur, rats are assumed to have relatively high\nrequirements of sulphur-containing amino acids (methionine and cysteine).\n\nAs a result, the analytical method that is universally recognized by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), World Health Organization (WHO), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), United Nations University (UNU) and the United States National Academy of Sciences when judging the quality of protein in the human is not PER or BV but the Protein Digestibility Corrected Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS), as it is viewed as accurately measuring the correct relative nutritional value of animal and vegetable sources of protein in the diet.\n\n"}
{"id": "45143540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45143540", "title": "Bissorte Dam", "text": "Bissorte Dam\n\nThe Bissorte Dam (French: \"Barrage de Bissorte\") is a gravity dam in the Maurienne Valley, in Savoie, France, about east of Valmeinier. It was built from 1930 to 1935 to supply a hydroelectric plant capable of generating 75 megawatts (MW) of power.\n\nThe complex was reconfigured from 1980 to 1986 in order to add a 750 MW pumped-storage power plant known as \"Super-Bissorte\", the third most powerful in France after Grand'Maison and Montézic.\n\nThe Bissorte Dam is perched on an ancient glacial basin, now alpine tundra, in the Massif des Cerces. It is close to the Valfréjus ski resort in the commune of Modane, near the Italian border.\n\nDuring the 1920s, a period of intense stock market speculation on hydroelectricity in France, Bissorte's potential as a building site drew much attention. In 1930, work began on the construction of a gravity dam with a stone facing to protect its concrete structure. The power plant, known today as \"Bissorte 1\", was put into operation in 1935 and can output 75 MW in a matter of minutes thanks to its three Pelton turbines.\n\nIn 1980, the electric utility company Électricité de France (EDF, Electricity of France) built a second dam, the Pont des Chèvres, on the Arc River below Bissorte and reorganized the power plant into a pumped-storage facility. Through the use of a new underground penstock, water that had been released through the turbines during times of peak energy demand would be pumped from the lower reservoir back into the upper one during times of lower consumption, replenishing the plant's supply of water and enabling a balanced production of power. Super-Bissorte, the new addition to the complex, was commissioned in 1986. It comprises two underground facilities, called \"Bissorte 2\" and \"Bissorte 3\", which can generate 750 MW through the use of four 150 MW reversible Francis pump-turbines and a 150 MW Pelton turbine.\n\nThe Bissorte concession agreement, which grants EDF the rights to operate the facility, expired at the end of 2014 and will be put up for bid, according to the Law of 16 Octobre 1919.\n\nThe Bissorte Dam, which forms the upper reservoir ( elevation), is a gravity dam on the Bissorte River ( long). It is long and wide at the base. A stone facing protects its concrete structure. The reservoir, Lake Bissorte (\"Lac de Bissorte\"), holds a water volume of that can now be brought to a maximum of after additional work was completed in 1957.\n\nA second reservoir, situated on the Arc River downstream from the Bissorte Dam, is formed by the Pont des Chèvres Dam ( elevation), a gate-structure dam. It serves to stabilize the flow of tailwater from the Bissorte and Orelle plants, and functions as the lower reservoir in the pumped-storage system utilized by Super-Bissorte, one of France's major pumped-storage power stations, known as STEP (\"Stations de transfert d'énergie par pompage\"). The reservoir holds of water.\n\nThe original penstock, installed to pipe water into Bissorte 1, was a novelty at the time of its construction thanks to its stiffener rings, metal bands that provide reinforcement against the high tensile pressure of the water. A second penstock was installed underground with the addition of Super-Bissorte.\n\nBissorte 1 is equipped with three horizontal Pelton turbines that can output 25 MW each. It is below the water level of Lake Bissorte.\n\nSuper-Bissorte is composed of two underground facilities: Bissorte 2, outfitted with four 150 MW reversible Francis pump-turbines, and Bissorte 3, furnished with a 150 MW vertical Pelton turbine.\n\nSuper-Bissorte, like the other STEP facilities, is a strategic element of France's power grid. It provides a way to restore electricity in case of a power outage, like the one that occurred during the Europe-wide blackout on November 6, 2006. Due to an error of judgement on the part of a German electric company, French and Spanish power networks found themselves in abrupt isolation and unable to meet demand. However, the Réseau de Transport d'Électricité (RTE, Electricity Transmission Network) was able to offset the shortage by mobilizing nine hydroelectric dams: “At 22:15 hours, the hydroelectric plants of Bort, Montézic, Grand Maison, Villarodin, and Sarran-Bromat augmented production by 2,800 MW, followed by an increase of 1,140 MW at 22:20 hours from the Tignes, Super-Bissorte, La Bathie and Monteynard plants.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38477371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38477371", "title": "Boz Dam", "text": "Boz Dam\n\nBoz Dam (from , in ), also known as Buz Dam, is a dam in Kukherd city, southwestern Kukherd District, Hormozgan Province, Iran.\n\nBust gez Valley basin is located in the southern part of Zeer Mountain and southern Dasak Mountain is a beg Mount from Kukherd District () in the city of Bastak (Bastak County شهرستان بستک) Hormozgan Province.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44440160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44440160", "title": "Breast hematoma", "text": "Breast hematoma\n\nBreast hematoma is a collection of blood within the breast. It arises from internal bleeding (hemorrhage) and may arise due to trauma (breast injury or surgery) or due to a non-traumatic cause.\n\nSymptoms may include visible discoloring (ecchymosis), breast pain, and swelling.\n\nThe symptoms may be similar to those of fibrocystic breast changes.\n\nA breast hematoma may appear due to direct trauma to the breast, for example from a sports injury or a road accident, for example a vehicle collision in which a seat belt injury occurs.\n\nHematoma can also be a consequence of breast surgery, usually due to post-operative bleeding. Bleeding may occur shortly after the intervention or a number of days later and can occur for cosmetic surgery (for example breast reduction or breast enhancement) and for non-cosmetic surgery (for example lymph node removal, lumpectomy, or mastectomy). More rarely, hematoma can result from breast biopsy.\n\nRarely, a breast hematoma can also occur spontaneously due to a rupture of blood vessels in the breast, especially in persons with coagulopathy or after long-term use of blood-thinning drugs such as aspirin or ibuprofen.\n\nWhen there is post-operative swelling after breast surgery or core needle biopsy, a breast ultrasound examination may be indicated in order to differentiate between a hematoma and other possible post-surgical complications such as abscess or seroma, A recent hematoma is usually visible in a mammogram. and it also shows typical signal intensities on MR imaging. If a differentiation from breast cancer is necessary, a hematoma biopsy may be indicated.\n\nA careful consideration of the case history is important for the diagnosis of a breast hematoma.\n\nSmall breast hematomas often resolve on their own within several days or weeks by means of reabsorption of the blood. Larger hematomas are more likely to lead to inflammation or fibrosis.\n\nBreast hematomas can sometimes lead to skin discoloration, inflammation, or fever. When a hematoma resolves, it may become fibrotic, leaving behind scar tissue. A resolving hematoma may liquify to form a seroma.\n\nPost-surgical breast hematomas can also impede wound healing and therefore impact the cosmetic outcome. Hematomas are furthermore one of the risk factors for breast surgical site infections. There is preliminary evidence that, after breast implant surgery, the presence of hematoma increases the risk of developing capsular contracture.\n\nIn mammography screening, scar tissue resulting from a breast hematoma can easily be confused with tumor tissue, especially in the first years following surgery. Ultimately, fat necrosis may occur in the concerned region of the breast.\n\nSmall breast hematomas that cause no discomfort often require merely clinical observation, with ultrasound being used to monitor the resolution of the hematoma.\n\nLarge breast hematomas, or those that are not becoming smaller or that are causing discomfort, usually require drainage. Also hematomas that occur after surgery for excision of a malignant tumor are drained, because a hematoma to which irradiation is applied is unlikely to ever resolve. A recent hematoma can be drained by means of needle aspiration or (rarely) open surgical drainage.\n"}
{"id": "28607012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28607012", "title": "Canadian Hemophilia Society", "text": "Canadian Hemophilia Society\n\nThe Canadian Hemophilia Society (CHS) is a non-profit organization founded in 1953 whose mission is to lead the fight against inherited bleeding disorders by helping people affected live healthy lives while searching for a cure. The organization consists of chapters in every province in Canada, and a national organization direction to the provincial chapters. It is named for the blood disease hemophilia.\n\n"}
{"id": "7573112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7573112", "title": "Chua Soi Lek", "text": "Chua Soi Lek\n\nTan Sri Datuk Seri Dr. Chua Soi Lek (); born 2 January 1947, also known as Chua Kin Seng, is a Chinese Malaysian politician from the state of Johor. He is the 9th President of the Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA), a major component party in Barisan Nasional (BN) coalition. He held the post of Minister of Health from 2004 until 2008.\n\nHe was born in Batu Pahat, Johor. Chua received his early education at Sekolah Kebangsaan Lim Poon, then Batu Pahat High School and Muar High School. He was educated in medicine (SSB) at the University of Malaya in 1968-1973.\n\nHe was trained in psychology and practised psychiatry before entering politics. Chua set up his medical practice in 1977 after serving as a medical officer at the Batu Pahat Hospital. He sold the clinic in 1990 to pursue a full-time career in politics with MCA.\n\nChua is married to Puan Sri Wong Sek Hin and the couple have three children. One of their sons, Chua Tee Yong replace him as member of parliament for Labis.\n\nHe was first elected as a state assemblyman for Penggaram, Johor on MCA's ticket in 1986. He continued to serve Penggaram for 18 years through four consecutive state elections. Later, he became a Johor state government executive councillor. In the 2004 general election, he contested for the Labis parliamentary seat under the Barisan Nasional coalition and claimed victory. The then Prime Minister Tun Abdullah Ahmad Badawi appointed Chua into the Malaysian cabinet as the Minister of Health following that victory.\n\nHe held several prominent posts throughout his later career. He was the Member of Parliament for Labis, a MCA vice-president, Johor MCA state liaison committee chairman as well as Batu Pahat MCA division chairman until he resigned from all public and political offices on 2 January 2008 due to the eruption of a sensational sex scandal.\n\nOn 1 January 2008, Chua admitted that he was the person featured in a sensational sex DVD that was widely being circulated in Johor. The two DVDs were distributed anonymously in Muar and other towns in Johor show Dr Chua having scandal with a young woman, described by him as a \"personal friend.\" The DVDs are believed to be wireless hidden camera recordings in a hotel suite.\n\nHe claimed no involvement in the filming or production of the DVD in question. On 2 January 2008, he formally announced his resignation from all posts including Member of Parliament for Labis, vice presidency of MCA, and Minister of Health at a press conference.\n\nChua later remarked his downfall was due to his dedication to his work as Health Minister and MCA Vice-President, which caused his political rivals to grow suspicious of him.\n\nIn the 2008 general elections, MCA won only 15 parliamentary seats out of 40 they contested. Some grassroots leaders and former top leaders including Dr Chua, demanded the President, Ong Ka Ting, step down to take responsibility.\n\nHe returned to active politics in the second half of 2008 and won the Batu Pahat Division chairman post uncontested. Then he contested the MCA deputy presidency, defeating Ong Ka Chuan, Donald Lim and Lee Hak Teik in a four-cornered fight.\n\nDespite that, Dr Chua was only appointed chairman of the Government Policy Monitoring bureau and left out of the MCA leadership in Johor by party president, Ong Tee Keat. This was seen as a move to isolate Dr Chua politically. Eventually, Chua was expelled from the party in August 2009 by the MCA Disciplinary Committee for his sex scandal.\n\nIn 2009, Chua Soi Lek's supporters sparked an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) to challenge Ong Tee Keat's Presidency and reinstitate Dr Chua as a member and deputy president.\n\nThe EGM was held on 10 October, where a number of resolutions were made challenging Chua Soi Lek's removal from MCA and his sacking as deputy president of MCA. A vote of no confidence against Datuk Seri Ong Tee Keat passed by 14 votes. In the other resolution, Dr Chua's expulsion was overturned. Ong and Chua both refused to resign, and united under a \"greater unity plan,\" putting their differences aside temporarily. However, some central committee members, led by Liow Tiong Lai, previously aligned with Ong, demanded fresh elections.\n\nIn early March 2010, Chua and his supporters in the central committee (CC), joined other CCs led by Liow Tiong Lai, in resigning. With the resignation of two-thirds of the central committee, fresh elections were to be held as per the party constitution. Chua contested the presidency against incumbent Ong Tee Keat and former president Ong Ka Ting. In the three-cornered fight, Chua emerged victorious while incumbent Tee Keat finished in third place. After becoming president, Chua focused on rebuilding the appearance of unity within MCA after a year of public infighting.\n\nIn February 2012, Chua Soi Lek broke from Malaysian political norms by having a public debate with Lim Guan Eng, Chief Minister of Penang. The first debate continued with another public debate, labelled as Debate 2.0, that was held on 8 July 2012. Both debates generated tremendous public and media interest.\n\nIn the Malaysian general election, 2013 MCA only won 7 of the 37 federal seats and 11 of the 90 state seats it contested. In the general election in 2008, it won 15 parliamentary and 32 state seats. Chua said MCA remained adamant in not accepting any government post at both state and federal level, following its dismal performance in the just-concluded 13th General Election. The poor performance in the election led to calls for Chua's resignation. Chua did not enter the following party poll for President, and in December 2013, Liow Tiong Lai was elected the President of MCA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10141305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10141305", "title": "Crown lengthening", "text": "Crown lengthening\n\nCrown lengthening is a surgical procedure performed by a dentist, or more frequently a specialist periodontist. There are a number of reasons for considering crown lengthening in a treatment plan. Commonly, the procedure is used to expose a greater amount of tooth structure for the purpose of subsequently restoring the tooth prosthetically. However, other indications include accessing subgingival caries, accessing perforations and to treat aesthetic disproportions such as a gummy smile. There are a number of procedures used to achieve an increase in crown length.\n\n Biologic width is the distance established by \"the junctional epithelium and connective tissue attachment to the root surface\" of a tooth. In other words, it is the height between the deepest point of the gingival sulcus and the alveolar bone crest. This distance is important to consider when fabricating dental restorations, because they must respect the natural architecture of the gingival attachment if harmful consequences are to be avoided. The biologic width is patient specific and may vary anywhere from 0.75-4.3 mm.\n\nBased on the 1961 paper by Gargiulo, the mean biologic width was determined to be 2.04 mm, of which 1.07 mm is occupied by the connective tissue attachment and another approximate 0.97 mm is occupied by the junctional epithelium. Because it is impossible to perfectly restore a tooth to the precise coronal edge of the junctional epithelium, it is often recommended to remove enough bone to have 3mm between the restorative margin and the crest of alveolar bone. When restorations do not take these considerations into account and violate biologic width, three things tend to occur:\n\nIn addition to crown lengthening to establish a proper biologic width, a 2 mm height of tooth structure should be available to allow for a ferrule effect. A ferrule, in respect to teeth, is a band that encircles the external dimension of residual tooth structure, not unlike the metal bands that exist around a barrel. Sufficient vertical height of tooth structure that will be grasped by the future crown is necessary to allow for a ferrule effect of the future prosthetic crown; it has been shown to significantly reduce the incidence of fracture in the endodontically treated tooth. Because beveled tooth structure is not parallel to the vertical axis of the tooth, it does not properly contribute to ferrule height; thus, a desire to bevel the crown margin by 1 mm would require an additional 1 mm of bone removal in the crown lengthening procedure. Frequently, however, restorations are performed without such a bevel.\n\nSome recent studies suggest that, while ferrule is certainly desirable, it should not be provided at the expense of the remaining tooth/root structure. On the other hand, it has also been shown that the \"difference between an effective, long-term restoration and a failure can be as small as 1 mm of additional tooth structure that, when encased by a ferrule, provides great protection. When such a long-lasting, functional restoration cannot be predictably created, tooth extraction should be considered.\"\n\nThe alveolar bone surrounding one tooth will naturally surround an adjacent tooth, and removing bone for a crown lengthening procedure will effectively damage the bony support of adjacent teeth to some inevitable extent, as well as unfavorably increase the crown-to-root ratio. Additionally, once bone is removed, it is almost impossible to regain it to previous levels, and in case a patient would like to have an implant placed in the future, there might not be enough bone in the region once a crown lengthening procedure has been completed. Thus, it would be prudent for patients to thoroughly discuss all of their treatment planning options with their dentist before undergoing an irreversible procedure such as crown lengthening.\n\nCrown lengthening is often done in conjunction with a few other expensive and time-consuming procedures of which the combined goal is to improve the prosthetic forecast of a tooth. If a tooth, because of its relative lack of solid tooth structure, also requires a post and core, and thus, endodontic treatment, the total combined time, effort and cost of the various procedures, as well as the impaired prognosis due to the combined inherent failure rates of each procedure, might combine to make it reasonable to have the tooth extracted. If the patient and the extraction site make for eligible candidates, it might be possible to have an implant placed and restored with more esthetic, timely, inexpensive and reliable results. It is important to consider the many options available during the treatment planning stages of dental care.\n\nAn alternative to surgical crown lengthening is orthodontic forced eruption, it is non-invasive, does not remove or damage the bone and can be cost effective. The tooth is extruded a couple of millimeters with simple bracketing of adjacent teeth and using light forces this will only take a couple of months. A fiberotomy is performed after crown lengthening and is easily performed by the general dentist. In many cases such as this one shown, surgery and extraction may be avoided if patient is treated orthodontically rather than periodontally.\n\nAn apically repositioned flap is a widely used procedure that involves flap elevation with subsequent osseous contouring. The flap is designed such that it is replaced more apical to its original position and thus immediate exposure of sound tooth structure is gained. As discussed above, when planning a crown lengthening procedure consideration must be given to maintenance of the biologic width.\n\nAs a general rule, at least 4 mm of sound tooth structure must be exposed at the time of surgery. This therefore allows for proliferation of the supracrestal soft tissues, which are estimated to cover 2– 3 mm of the coronal root structure thereby leaving 1– 2 mm of supragingivally located sound tooth structure. Furthermore, thought has to be given to the inherent tendency of gingival tissues to bridge abrupt changes in the contour of the bone crest. As such it is advised that bone recontouring must be performed not only around the problem tooth but also at the adjacent teeth to gradually reduce the osseous profile.\n\nConsequently, substantial amounts of attachment may have to be sacrificed when crown lengthening is accomplished with an apically positioned flap technique. It is also important to remember that, for esthetic reasons, symmetry of tooth length must be maintained between the right and left sides of the dental arch. This may, in some situations, call for the inclusion of even more teeth in the surgical procedure.\n\nCrown lengthening of multiple teeth in a quadrant or sextant of the dentition\n\nSingle teeth in the aesthetic zone becomes increasingly destructive\n\n\nImmediate increase in sound tooth structure can be achieved\n\nDifficult procedure for patients to tolerate, increased post operative pain \n\nOrthodontic tooth movement can be used to erupt teeth in adults. If moderate eruptive forces are applied, the entire eruptive apparatus will move in unison with the tooth. As such, the units required must be extruded a distance equal to or slightly longer than the portion of sound tooth structure that will be exposed in the following surgical treatment. Once stabilised, a full thickness flap is then elevated and osseous recontouring is performed to expose the required tooth structure. It is noted that to restore aesthetic proportions correctly the hard and soft tissues of adjacent teeth should remain unchanged.\n\nForced tooth eruption is indicated where crown lengthening is required, but attachment and bone from adjacent teeth must be preserved.\n\nForced tooth eruption requires a fixed orthodontic appliance. This poses problems in patients with reduced dentitions, in such instances alternative crown lengthening procedures must be considered\n\nOrthodontic brackets are bonded to the teeth requiring crown lengthening surgery and then to adjacent teeth, these are then combined within an archwire. A power elastic band is then tied from the bracket to the archwire (or the bar), which pulls the tooth coronally. The direction of the tooth movement must be carefully checked to ensure no tilting or movement of adjacent teeth occurs.\n\nForced Tooth Eruption can also be performed with fiberotomy. This technique is adopted when gingival margins and crystal bone height are to be maintained at their pretreatment locations. Fiberotomy is performed at 7-10 day intervals during treatment. A scalpel is used to sever supracrestal connective tissue fibres, thereby preventing crystal bone from following the root in a coronal direction.\n\nPreserves osseous structure around adjacent teeth\n\nProcedure requires fixed wire placement and treatment time can be prolonged\n"}
{"id": "30870999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30870999", "title": "Energy gel", "text": "Energy gel\n\nEnergy gels are carbohydrate gels that provide energy for exercise and promote recovery, commonly used in endurance events such as running, cycling, and triathlons. Energy gels are also referred to as endurance gels, sports gels, nutritional gels, and carbohydrate gels. They come in small, single-serve plastic packets. Each packet has a strip with a small notch at the top that can be peeled off to reveal an opening through which the gel can be consumed.\n\nSports energy gels emerged in the United Kingdom in 1986 as a \"convenient, prewrapped, portable\" way to deliver carbohydrates during endurance events. Gels have a gooey texture and are sometimes referred to as \"goo\" generically. The gel Leppin Squeezy was distributed at the Hawaii Ironman Triathlon in 1988. Once considered a \"cult product in clear packaging\", energy gel products are now marketed in fancy packaging and come in a variety of flavors. The energy gel market grew during the 1990s, as professional athletes began endorsing products. Manufacturers generally encourage the consumption of multiple packets, with water, when participating in endurance events. Individual packets typically cost between 99 cents and $1.29 (as reported by the \"St. Petersburg Times\" in 2003).\n\nOnce consumed, the carbohydrates found in the gels are absorbed into the blood to supply the body with calories and nutrients to fuel exercise activity by helping to delay muscular fatigue, raise blood sugar levels, and enhance performance. Most energy gels have no fat, fiber, or protein, so they can be digested quickly. They contain mainly sugars and maltodextrins, which make them similar to sports drinks without the water. Since simple carbohydrates slow down gastric emptying and can cause gastrointestinal distress in athletes, there are attempts to create new categories of energy gels made with complex, long chain carbohydrates and/or fat. Spring gel is an example of a gel with low sugar, low glycemic index carbohydrate content with the addition of fat and Vespapower is an example of a gel made with fat. Some gels, such as e-Gel, also come with added electrolytes. There are also gels with extras such as ginseng and other herbs, amino acids, vitamins, and Coenzyme Q10. Caffeine can be found in some gels as well. Examples of common energy gels are GU, PowerBar Gel, and Clif Shot.\n\nThe recommended use of an energy gel is 15 minutes before starting and 30–45 minutes after starting the endurance exercise. The first gel prior to exercise may be skipped in favor of a high carbohydrate snack instead. Energy gels are then to be used every 30–45 minutes during exercise. The notch can be peeled off at the top and an intake of energy gel is recommended to be followed with a drink of water to avoid risk of dehydration. This is especially important for gels with high simple carbohydrate content. These gels create hyperosmolar gastric content which prevents carbohydrate absorption and gastrointestinal distress. For this reason, energy gels with low sugar content are frequently called \"hydrogels\". The exact intake of the gel varies for every athlete depending on their metabolism, body weight, and fitness level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3192935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192935", "title": "Eosinophilic fasciitis", "text": "Eosinophilic fasciitis\n\nEosinophilic fasciitis (), also known as \"Shulman's syndrome\", is a form of fasciitis, the inflammatory diseases that affect the fascia, the connective tissues surrounding muscles, blood vessels and nerves. Unlike other diseases in that category, it is limited to the arms and legs, and usually resolves itself, although some cases require corticosteroids, and some cases are associated with aplastic anemia.\n\nThe presentation of eosinophilic fasciitis is similar to scleroderma or systemic sclerosis. However, unlike scleroderma, it affects the fascia, not the skin (dermis). The characteristic and severe effects of scleroderma and systemic sclerosis, such as Raynaud's syndrome, involvement of the extremities, prominent small blood vessels (telangiectasia), and visceral changes such as swallowing problems, are absent.\n\nIt was first characterized in 1974, and it is not yet known whether it is actually a distinct condition or just a different presentation. However, it remains used for diagnostic purposes.\n\nSeveral cases have been reported after strenuous exercise.\n\nAs it is a rare disease, a clear set of symptoms is difficult to define. Usually, patients show severe pain and swelling is reported but clinical presentations vary. It can have an 'orange peel' like appearance. Less common features are joint pain and carpal tunnel syndrome.\n\nMost cases are idiopathic, but several triggers might related to the development of Eosinophilic fasciitis, such as Strenuous exercise, initiation of hemodialysis, infection with Borrelia burgdorferi, some medications such as statins, phenytoin, ramipril, and subcutaneous heparin.\n\nThe key to diagnosis is skin changes combined with blood eosinophilia but the most accurate test is a skin, fascia and muscle biopsy.\n\nCommon treatments include corticosteroids such as prednisone, though other medications such as hydroxychloroquine have also been used.\nThe prognosis is usually good in the case of an early treatment if there is no visceral involvement.\n\nTypical age of onset is around 40 to 50 years. It is not clear whether it is more common in women than men - patient numbers are small and some studies report a preponderance of men and others women. It is also found in children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4341843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341843", "title": "Finnish famine of 1866–68", "text": "Finnish famine of 1866–68\n\nThe Famine of 1866–1868 was the last famine in Finland, and (along with the subsequent Swedish famine of 1867-1869) the last major naturally caused famine in Europe. \n\nIn Finland the famine is known as \"the great hunger years\", or . About 8.5% of the entire population died of hunger; in the hardest-hit areas up to 20%. The total death toll was 270,000 in three years, about 150,000 in excess of normal mortality. The worst-hit areas were Satakunta, Tavastia, Ostrobothnia, and North Karelia.\n\nParts of the country had suffered poor harvests in previous years, most notably in 1862. The summer of 1866 was extremely rainy, and staple crops failed widely: potatoes and root vegetables rotted in the fields, and conditions for sowing grain in the autumn were unfavourable. When stored food ran out, thousands took to the roads to beg. The following winter was hard, and spring was late. In Helsinki, the average temperature in May 1867 was +, about below the long-time average and by far the coldest such month in the meteorological record. In many places, lakes and rivers remained frozen until June. \n\nAfter a promisingly warm midsummer, freezing temperatures in early September ravaged crops; as a result, the harvest was about half the average. By the autumn of 1867, people were dying by the thousands.\n\nThe government of the Grand Duchy of Finland was ill-equipped to handle a crisis of such magnitude. There was no money readily available to import food from largely monopolized Central European markets, and the government was slow to recognize the severity of the situation. Finance minister Johan Vilhelm Snellman, in particular, did not want to borrow, lest Finland's recently introduced currency, the Finnish markka, be weakened because of high interest rates. When money was finally borrowed from the Rothschild bank of Frankfurt in late 1867, the crisis was already full blown, and grain prices had risen in Europe. In addition, it was difficult to transport what little aid could be mustered in a country with poor communications. A number of emergency public works projects were set up, foremost among them the construction of the railway line from Riihimäki to Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe weather returned to normal in 1868, and that year's harvest was somewhat better than average, yet, contagious diseases that had spread in the previous year took many additional lives.\n\nPrograms were launched to increase the diversity of Finnish agriculture, and rapidly improving communications made a recurrence of such a famine less likely.\n\nIn general, ordinary Finns at the time saw the famine as an act of God. Few would have expected the crown to be able to do much more, and blame was directed mainly at local officials. No significant working class political movement had developed yet that could have capitalized politically on the crisis. The urban population was small, and for the people of the countryside, the first priority was to resume normal lives. In short, the famine did not threaten the social order, but its memory cast a long shadow.\n\n"}
{"id": "21573926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21573926", "title": "Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics", "text": "Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics\n\nThe Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) is a global health non-profit based in Geneva, Switzerland. FIND functions as a product development partnership, engaging in active collaboration with over 150 partners to facilitate the development, evaluation, and implementation of diagnostic tests for poverty-related diseases. The organisation's Geneva headquarters are in Campus Biotech. Country offices are located in New Delhi, India; Cape Town, South Africa; and Hanoi, Viet Nam.\n\nFIND was launched at the 56th World Health Assembly in 2003. In 2011, FIND was recognized as an \"Other International Organization\" by the Swiss Government, alongside DNDi and Medicines for Malaria Venture.\n\nThe organization focuses on improving diagnosis in several disease areas, including hepatitis C, HIV, malaria, neglected tropical diseases (sleeping sickness, Chagas disease, leishmaniasis, buruli ulcer), and tuberculosis. Alongside this, FIND works on diagnostic connectivity, antimicrobial resistance, acute febrile illness, and outbreak preparedness.\n\nTo support this work, FIND engages in development of target product profiles, maintains clinical trial platforms, manages specimen banks, negotiates preferential product pricing for developing markets, and creates and implements trainings and lab strengthening tools.\n\nWork is guided by a Board of Directors which approves policies, organizational strategy and budget.\n\nStaff and the Board of Directors are advised by a Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC), which provides advice on science and technology, assists in developing strategy, supports the scientific management process of projects, and offers support on issues ranging from diagnostics development to licensing.\n\nFIND receives its funding from more than a dozen donors, including bilateral and multilateral organizations as well as private foundations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168639", "title": "Girl, Interrupted", "text": "Girl, Interrupted\n\nGirl, Interrupted is a best-selling 1993 memoir by American author Susanna Kaysen, relating her experiences as a young woman in a psychiatric hospital in the 1960s after being diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. The memoir's title is a reference to the Vermeer painting \"Girl Interrupted at Her Music\".\n\nWhile writing the novel \"Far Afield\", Kaysen began to recall her almost two years at McLean Hospital. She obtained her file from the hospital with the help of a lawyer.\n\nIn 1999, the memoir was adapted into a film of the same name starring Winona Ryder, Angelina Jolie and Brittany Murphy. It was directed by James Mangold.\n\nIn April 1967, 18-year-old Susanna Kaysen is admitted to McLean Hospital, in Belmont, Massachusetts, after attempting suicide by overdosing on pills. She denies that it was a suicide attempt to a psychiatrist, who suggests she take time to regroup in McLean, a private mental hospital. Susanna is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, and her stay extends to 18 months rather than the proposed couple of weeks.\n\nFellow patients Polly, Cynthia, Lisa Rowe, Lisa Cody, Georgina and Daisy contribute to Susanna's experiences at McLean as she describes their personal issues and how they come to cope with the time they must spend in the hospital. Susanna also introduces the reader to particular staff members, including Valerie, Dr. Wick and Mrs. McWeeney. Susanna and the other girls are eventually informed that the recently released Daisy committed suicide on her birthday. Daisy's death deeply saddens the girls and they hold a prolonged moment of silence in her memory.\n\nSusanna reflects on the nature of her illness, including difficulty making sense of visual patterns, and suggests that sanity is a falsehood constructed to help the \"healthy\" feel \"normal\" in comparison. She also questions how doctors treat mental illness, and whether they are treating the brain or the mind. During her stay in the ward, Susanna also undergoes a period of depersonalization, where she bites open the flesh on her hand after she becomes terrified that she has \"lost her bones\". She develops a frantic obsession with the verification of this proposed reality and even insists on seeing an X-ray of herself to make sure. This hectic moment is described with shorter, choppy sentences that show Kaysen's state of mind and thought processes as she went through them. Also, during a trip to the dentist with Valerie, Susanna becomes frantic after she wakes from the general anesthesia, when no one will tell her how long she was unconscious, and she fears that she has lost time. Like the incident with her bones, Kaysen here also rapidly spirals into a panicky and obsessive state that is only ultimately calmed with medication.\n\nAfter leaving McLean, Susanna mentions that she kept in touch with Georgina and eventually saw Lisa, now a single mother who was about to board the subway with her toddler son and seemed, although quirky, to be sane.\n\n\"Girl, Interrupted\" does not follow a linear storyline, but instead the author provides personal stories through a series of short descriptions of events and personal reflections on why she was placed in the hospital. She begins by talking about the concept of a parallel universe and how easy it is to slip into one, comparing insanity to an alternate world. She discusses how some people fall into insanity gradually and others just snap. Kaysen also details the doctor's visit before first going to the hospital and the taxi ride there at the beginning of the book before launching into the chronicles of her time at the hospital.\n\nThere are two main groups of characters, the patients and the staff. In addition to those there are her parents, her boyfriend and various other minor characters such as her former boss.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23814785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814785", "title": "Goldschmidt Thesis", "text": "Goldschmidt Thesis\n\nIn the sociology of agriculture, the Goldschmidt Thesis is the thesis by Walter Goldschmidt that farm scale and other management characteristics (e.g., wage labor) are associated with certain community characteristics. Goldschmidt was a California anthropologist who conducted pioneering rural community research under USDA’s Bureau of Agricultural Economics on two California farming communities (Arvin and Dinuba). His 1944 research showed that largescale, especially industrial, farm structures in one community were associated with adverse community conditions. Smaller-scale, owner-operated farms in the other community, were associated with more vibrant, diverse economies and with higher standards of living.\n\nA large body of research has accumulated testing the Goldschmidt Thesis. However, the validity of the thesis that farm structural characteristics dominating an area can produce certain rural community characteristics remains ambiguous. Research results supporting the thesis and other conclusions casting doubt on it have characterized the debate for over 50 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "44379717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44379717", "title": "Happiness in Judaism", "text": "Happiness in Judaism\n\nHappiness in Judaism and Jewish thought is considered an important value, especially in the context of the service of God. A number of Jewish teachings stress the importance of joy, and demonstrate methods of attaining happiness.\n\nThere are a number of words in the Hebrew language that denote happiness:\n\nThe bible links happiness and joy in the context of the service of God.\n\nEcclesiastes points to the futility of seeking joy and pleasure in life, however, the Talmud comments that this is only true of joy which has not been derived from the fulfilment of a commandment.\nElsewhere, the bible links happiness to finding the right answer to a question.\nIn the Talmud, one of the primary sources for traditional Jewish Law (\"Halacha\"), happiness and sadness are associated with particular months of in the Jewish calendar. One is meant to increase in happiness during the month of Adar and decrease in happiness during the month of Av. However, in both Maimonides's main legal work and the Code of Jewish Law by Rabbi Yosef Karo, the decrease in joy during Av is mentioned while the increase during Adar is omitted. Some commentaries ascribe this omission to the fact that happiness has no concrete guidelines and depends on the nature of each individual. Whereas acts of sadness and mourning where required by law requires specification and delineation. And though happiness during Adar isn't mentioned in the main Codes, it is mentioned by the \"Magen Avraham\", one of the main commentaries published alongside Karo's work written by Rabbi Avraham Gombiner, and in \"Kitzur Shulchan Aruch\" (the \"Abbreviated Code of Jewish Law\") by Rabbi Shlomo Ganzfried.\n\nThere is a Jewish custom to hang a sign in one's home on which is written \"When Adar comes in, increase in happiness\" (\"Mishenichnas Adar marbin b'simcha\", ). Some have the custom to place this sign to cover the customary portion of a wall left unfinished serving the memory of the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem (this wall area is commonly referred to as the \"zecher l'churban\").\n\nAccording to Maimonides, happiness is an essential element in the performance of Jewish rituals. Maimonides rules in his Code, \"Yad Hachazakah\", that the performance of all commandments must accompany an abundance of joy.\nIn Jewish Law, rejoicing during the Jewish holidays is considered a biblical commandment. Maimonides ruled that this obligation is fulfilled by drinking wine and eating meat.\n\nThe Talmud states \"One should not stand up to pray while immersed in sorrow, or idleness, or laughter, or chatter, or frivolity, or idle talk, but only while rejoicing in the performance of a commandment (\"b'simcha shel mitzvah\").\"\n\nSome rabbinic commentaries have taught that joy may resolve doubts one may have in reaching a legal decision in Jewish law.\n\nThe Talmud, in an Aggadic (homiletic) teaching, states that the Divine presence does not rest on a prophet unless he is in a state of happiness as the result of fulfilling one of the commandments.\n\nThe Talmud and Midrash also associate joy with marriage.\nElsewhere the Midrash emphasises joy as an effect of the state and nature of local governments.\nThe Zohar, a central text in Kabbalah, states that in order for Man's service of God to be complete, it must be completed in a joyful manner.\n\nThe Zohar also notes that the Hebrew word for \"in happiness\" (\"b'simcha\", ) contains the same letters as the Hebrew word for \"thought\" (\"machshava\", ). This is understood to mean that the key to happiness is found through our minds, by training oneself to weed out any negative thought that prevent one from experiencing happiness.\n\nThe Kabbalist Rabbi Elazar ben Moshe Azikri stated “Though a person may be depressed on account of his sins, he must be joyful at the time of Divine service. This applies to every service of God, and how much more so then to the service of prayer which is called ‘the service of the heart.'\"\n\nRabbi Yitzchak Luria, the Arizal, is believed to have only received his wisdom due to his rejoicing in the mitzvoth.\n\nJoy is considered an essential element of the Hasidic way of life. In the early stages of the Hasidic movement, before the name \"Hasidim\" was coined, one of the names used to refer to the followers of the new movement was \"di freilicha\" (), “the happy ones.”\nThe founder of Hasidism, Rabbi Yisroel Baal Shem Tov (1698–1760) is quoted as saying \"In the eyes of the Hasidim, joy is considered a biblical commandment, a mitzvah.\" The Hasidic Rebbe, Rabbi Nachman of Breslov (1772–1810) would often say \"It is a great mitzvah (commandment) to live in the state of happiness\" (\"mitzvah gedolah lihiyot b'simcha tamid\", ). And Rabbi Aharon of Karlin (I), one of the early Hasidic masters, reportedly said, \"There is no mitzvah to be joyous, but joy can bring on the greatest mitzvot.\" It is also true, he said, that \"it is not a sin to be sad, but sadness can bring on the greatest sins.\"\n\nThe Baal Shem Tov interprets the verse \"Serve God with happiness\", that \"The happiness itself is your service of God\".\n\nIn the teachings of Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liadi, the founder of Chabad Hasidism, happiness is believed to be an essential element in the struggle between the Godly and Animal souls. When a person is sad or depressed, they are likely to feel lethargic and unable to control negative impulses. By contrast, one who is happy is likely to feel energized and motivated to control oneself.\n\nThe third Chabad Rebbe, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn of Lubavitch taught that a person should be happy and remain in good spirits despite any lack in \"yirat shamayim\" (\"fear of heaven\"). Though one might consider his/herself wicked and feel he or she deserves some form of divine punishment, one should see no conflict in feeling \"happiness... from one side, and bitterness [over his or her spiritual state] from the other side\".\n\nAccording to the Hasidic rebbe, Rabbi Moshe Leib of Sassov (1745–1807), a prayer filled with joy is greater than a prayer filled with tears. Quoting the Talmudic saying \"The gates of tears are never locked\", Rabbi Moshe states that for tears, the supernal gates are simply unlocked, while joy has the ability to destroy the gates completely.\n\nThe Baal Shem Tov taught that prayer conducted with joy is greater than prayer conducted with tears. The Baal Shem also taught that when the Tzadikim of the generation are joyful they awaken joy in the entire world, and that anger is dispelled by an emphasis on love for God and joy in performing the commandments.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Yisroel Salanter, founder of the Mussar movement, a person may be able to conquer and rectify one's negative impulses by being joyful in his or her service to God.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Naftali Amsterdam \"Mussar study in ecstasy (\"b'hispaalus\") renews the heart and gives joy to the soul.\"\n\nAccording to Rabbi Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler \"There is no happiness in the world of material things; there is only happiness in spiritual concerns. The one who enjoys a rich spiritual life is happy. There is no other kind of happiness in existence.\"\n\nRabbi Chaim Volozhin taught \"A person in a joyful mood can learn more in an hour than a depressed person can learn in many hours.\"\n\nAccording to Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liadi, the first Chabad Rebbe, one may attain joy by thinking deeply and picturing in one's mind the subject of the unity of God.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneersohn, the third Chabad Rebbe, by assuming the demeanor and mannerisms of one who is joyful, even if the one practicing these actions does not feel happy, such behaviors will lead to true feelings of happiness, because behaviors and actions impact the heart.\n\nAccording to Rabbi Nachman of Breslov, forcing oneself to be happy leads to truly feeling happy. According to Rabbi Nachman, even a faked, ungenuine, happiness has the power to transform one's personal situation and lead him or her to experiencing genuine joy.\n\nIn 2014, the Jewish Learning Institute, a Chabad organization offering classes in Jewish education for adults, launched a six-part course titled \"How Happiness Thinks\". The course was planned to be delivered in 350 cities worldwide, to over 75,000 students. The material in the lessons is drawn from Jewish sources as well as positive psychology addressing the concept of happiness, methods of its attainment as well as possible barriers to experiencing joy.\n\nThe JLI happiness course focuses on one's self-concept and how self-centered ness and low self-esteem negatively impact one's experience of happiness, while humility is seen as a tool in increasing feelings of joy in life. The lessons also examine how stress over everyday worries can hinder feelings of happiness, and finding purpose and meaning in life are believed to make people happier.\n\nProfessor Tal Ben-Shahar (PhD), one of the leaders in the field of Positive Psychology and the instructor of the most popular course in the history of Harvard University entitled Positive Psychology 1504, explains that “many of the ideas quote-unquote ‘discovered’ by modern psychologists, had actually been present for thousands of years in traditional Jewish sources.\". In a production produced by Aish HaTorah and Jerusalem U entitled \"Habits of Happiness: Positive Psychology and Judaism\", Professor Ben-Shahar discusses the age-old links between happiness and Judaism through the lens of Positive Psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "3377107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3377107", "title": "Heliciculture", "text": "Heliciculture\n\nHeliciculture, also known as heliculture, commonly known as snail farming, is the process of raising land snails specifically for human use, either to use their flesh as edible escargot or, more recently, to obtain snail slime for use in cosmetics and snail eggs for human consumption as a type of caviar.\n\nPerhaps the best known edible land snail species in the Western world is \"Helix pomatia\" (also known as Roman snail or Burgundy snail). This snail is located throughout much of Europe. \"Cornu aspersum\" (also known as \"Helix aspersa\"), the next most known, were found originally in the Mediterranean region, but are now also common in many parts of North America, Central America, and Australasia.\n\nRoasted snail shells have been found in archaeological excavations, an indication that snails have been eaten since prehistoric times.\n\n\"Lumaca romana\", (translation: Roman snail), was an ancient method of snail farming or heliciculture in the region about Tarquinia. This snail farming method was described by (49 BC) and mentioned by Marcus Terentius Varro in \"De Re rustica\" III, 12. The snails were fattened for human consumption using spelt and aromatic herbs. People usually raised snails in pens near the house, and these pens were called \"\".\n\nThe Romans, in particular, are known to have considered escargot as an elite food, as noted in the writings of Pliny. The Romans selected the best snails for breeding. Shells of the edible land snail species \"Otala lactea\" have been recovered in archaeological excavations of Volubilis in present-day Morocco.\n\nPliny described the snail garden of Fulvius Hirpinus 2,000 years ago as having separate sections for different species of snails. Hirpinus allegedly fed his snails on meal and wine.\n\n\"Wall fish\" were also often eaten in Britain, but were never as popular as on the continent. There, people often ate snails during Lent, and in a few places, they consumed large quantities of snails at Mardi Gras or Carnival, as a foretaste of Lent.\n\nAccording to some sources, the French exported brown garden snails to California in the 1850s, raising them as the delicacy escargot. Other sources claim that Italian immigrants were the first to bring the snail to the United States.\n\nU.S. imports of snails were worth more than $4.5 million in 1995 and came from 24 countries. This includes preserved or prepared snails and snails that are live, fresh, chilled, or frozen. Major exporters to the U.S. are France, Indonesia, Greece and China. The U.S. exported live, fresh, chilled, or frozen snails worth $55,000 to 13 countries; most were shipped to Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Individual statistics are not available for U.S. exports of prepared or processed snails from the U.S. Department of Commerce.\n\nEdible land snails range in size from about one millimeter long to the giant African snails, which occasionally grow up to in length. \"Escargot\" most commonly refers to either \"Cornu aspersum\" or to \"Helix pomatia\", although other varieties of snails are eaten. \"Achatina fulica\", a giant African snail, is sliced and canned and passed off on some consumers as escargot. Terms such as \"garden snail\" or \"common brown garden snail\" are rather meaningless since they refer to so many types of snails, but they sometimes mean \"H. aspersa\".\n\n\n\nSnails are hermaphrodites. Although they have both male and female reproductive organs, they must mate with another snail of the same species before they lay eggs. Some snails may act as males one season and as females the next. Other snails play both roles at once and fertilize each other simultaneously. When the snail is large enough and mature enough, which may take several years, mating occurs in the late spring or early summer after several hours of courtship. Sometimes there is a second mating in summer. (In tropical climates, mating may occur several times a year. In some climates, snails mate around October and may mate a second time 2 weeks later.) After mating, the snail can store sperm received for up to a year, but it usually lays eggs within a few weeks. Snails are sometimes uninterested in mating with another snail of the same species that originated from a considerable distance away. For example, a \"H. aspersa\" from southern France may reject a \"H. aspersa\" from northern France.\n\nSnails need soil at least 2 inches deep in which to lay their eggs. For \"H. pomatia\", the soil should be at least 3 inches deep to keep out pests such as ants, earwigs, millipedes, etc. Dry soil is not suitable for the preparation of a nest, nor is soil that is too heavy. In clay soil that becomes hard, reproduction rates may decrease because the snails are unable to bury their eggs and the hatchlings have difficulty emerging from the nest. Hatchability of eggs depends on soil temperature, soil humidity, soil composition, etc. Soil consisting of 20% to 40% organic material is good. The soil should be kept at , and is best around . Soil moisture should be maintained at 80%. One researcher removes eggs immediately after they are deposited, counts them, then keeps them on moist cotton until the eggs hatch and the young start to eat. Snails lose substantial weight by laying eggs. Some do not recover. About one-third of the snails will die after the breeding season.\n\n\"H. pomatia\" eggs measure about 3 mm in diameter and have a calcareous shell and a high yolk content. \"H. pomatia\" lays the eggs in July or August, 2 to 8 weeks after mating, in holes dug out in the ground. (Data varies widely on how long after mating snails lay eggs.) The snail puts its head into the hole or may crawl in until only the top of the shell is visible; then it deposits eggs from the genital opening just behind the head. It takes the snail 1 to 2 days to lay 30 to 50 eggs. Occasionally, the snail will lay about a dozen more a few weeks later. The snail covers the hole with a mixture of the slime it excretes and dirt. This slime, which the snail excretes to help it crawl and to help preserve the moisture in its soft body, is glycoprotein similar to eggwhite.\n\nFully developed baby \"H. pomatia\" snails hatch about 3 to 4 weeks after the eggs are laid, depending on temperature and humidity. Birds, insects, mice, toads and other predators take a heavy toll on the young snails. The snails eat and grow until the weather turns cold. They then dig a deep hole, sometimes as deep as , and seal themselves inside their shell and hibernate for the winter. This is a response to both decreasing temperature and shorter hours of daylight. When the ground warms up in spring, the snail emerges and goes on a binge of replacing lost moisture and eating.\n\n\"H. aspersa\" eggs are white, spherical, about 3 mm in diameter and are laid 5 days to 3 weeks after mating. (Data varies widely due to differences in climate and regional variations in the snails' habitats.) \"H. aspersa\" lays an average of 85 eggs in a nest that is 1 to 1½ inches deep. Data varies from 30 to over 120 eggs, but high figures may be from when more than one snail lays eggs in the same nest.\n\nIn warm, damp climates, \"H. aspersa\" may lay eggs as often as five times from February through October, depending on the weather and region. Mating and egg-laying begin when there are at least 10 hours of daylight and continue until days begin to get shorter. In the United States, longer hours of sunlight that occur when temperatures are still too cold will affect this schedule, but increasing hours of daylight still stimulate egg laying. If warm enough, the eggs hatch in about 2 weeks, or in 4 weeks if cooler. It takes the baby snails several more days to break out of the sealed nest and climb to the surface. In a climate similar to southern California's, \"H. aspersa\" matures in about 2 years. In central Italy, \"H. aspersa\" hatches and emerges from the soil almost exclusively in the autumn. If well fed and not overcrowded, those snails that hatch at the start of the season will reach adult size and form a lip at the edge of their shell by the following June. If the environment is manipulated to get more early hatchlings, the size and number of snails that mature the following year will increase. In South Africa, some \"H. aspersa\" mature in 10 months, and under ideal conditions in a laboratory, some have matured in 6 to 8 months. Most of \"H. aspersa's\" reproductive activity takes place in the second year of its life.\n\nBy contrast, one giant African snail, \"Achatina fulica\", lays 100 to 400 elliptical eggs that each measure about 5 mm long. Each snail may lay several batches of eggs each year, usually in the wet season. They may lay eggs in holes in the ground like \"H. pomatia\", or lay eggs on the surface of a rocky soil, in organic matter, or at the base of plants. In 10 to 30 days, the eggs hatch releasing snails about 4 mm long. These snails grow up to 10 mm per month. After 6 months, the Achatina fulica is about 35 mm long and may already be sexually mature. Sexual maturity takes 6 to 16 months, depending on weather and the availability of calcium. This snail lives 5 or 6 years, sometimes as many as 9 years.\n\nWithin the same snail population and under the same conditions, some snails will grow faster than others. Some will take twice as long to mature. This may help the species survive bad weather, etc., in the wild. However, a snail farmer should obviously select and keep the largest and fastest maturing snails for breeding stock and sell the smaller snails. By selecting only the largest, the average size of the snail may increase significantly in only a couple of generations. Most of the differences in growth are probably due to environmental factors including stocking density. However, to whatever extent these differences are genetic, farmers generally breed large, fast-growing snails instead of small, slower-growing ones.\n\nSeveral factors can greatly influence the growth of snails including: population density, stress (snails are sensitive to noise, light, vibration, unsanitary conditions, irregular feedings, being touched, etc.), feed, temperature and moisture, and the breeding technology used.\n\n\"H. aspersa\" requires at least 3% to 4% calcium in the soil (or another source of calcium) for good growth. Most snails need more calcium in the soil than \"H. aspersa\". Low calcium intake will slow the growth rate and cause the shell to be thinner. Calcium may be set out in a feeding dish or trough so the snails can eat it at will. Food is only one calcium source. Snails may eat paint or attack walls of buildings seeking calcium, and they also will eat dirt.\n\nA newborn's shell size depends on the egg size since the shell develops from the egg's surface membrane. As the snail grows, the shell is added onto in increments. Eventually the shell will develop a flare or reinforcing lip at its opening. This shows that the snail is now mature; there will be no further shell growth. Growth is measured by shell size, since a snail's body weight varies and fluctuates, even in 100% humidity. The growth rate varies considerably between individuals in each population group. Adult size, which is related to the growth rate, also varies, thus the fastest growers are usually the largest snails. Eggs from larger, healthier snails also tend to grow faster and thus larger.\n\nDryness inhibits growth and even stops activity. When it becomes too hot and dry in summer, the snail becomes inactive, seals its shell and estivates (becomes dormant) until cooler, moister weather returns. Some snails estivate in groups on tree trunks, posts, or walls. They seal themselves to the surface, thus sealing up the shell opening.\n\nPeak snail activity (including feeding and thus growth) occurs a few hours after sunset, when the temperature is lower and the water content (in the form of dew) is higher. During daytime snails usually seek shelter.\n\nSuccessful snail culture requires the correct equipment and supplies, including: snail pens or enclosures; devices for measuring humidity (hygrometer), temperature (thermometer), soil moisture (soil moisture sensor), and light (in foot candles); a weight scale and an instrument to measure snail size; a kit for testing soil contents; and a magnifying glass to see the eggs. Equipment to control the climate (temperature and humidity), to regulate water (e.g., a sprinkler system to keep the snails moist and a drainage system), to provide light and shade, and to kill or keep out pests and predators may also be needed. Some horticultural systems such as artificial lighting systems and water sprinklers may be adapted for snail culture. Better results are obtained if snails of the same kind and generation are used. Some recommend putting the hatchlings in another pen.\n\nFour systems of snail farms can be distinguished:\n\nClimate: A mild climate with high humidity (75% to 95%) is best for snail farming, though most varieties can stand a wider range of temperatures. The optimal temperature is for many varieties. When the temperature falls below , snails hibernate. Under the snails are inactive, and under , all growth stops. When the temperature rises much above or conditions become too dry, snails estivate. Wind is bad for snails because it speeds up moisture loss, and snails must retain moisture.\n\nMoisture: Snails thrive in damp but not waterlogged environments and thus a well-draining soil is required. Research indicates that water content around 80% of the carrying capacity of the soil and air humidity over 80% (during darkness) are the most favorable conditions. Many farmers use mist-producing devices to maintain proper moisture in the air and/or soil. Also, if the system contains alive vegetation, the leaves are to be periodically wet.\n\nSoil: Snails dig in soil and ingest it. Good soil favors snail growth and provides some of their nutrition. Lack of access to good soil may cause fragile shells even when the snails have well-balanced feed; the snails growth may lag far behind the growth of other snails on good soil. Snails will often eat feed, then go eat dirt. Sometimes, they will eat only one or the other.\n\nA well-functional soil would have the following characteristics:\n\nSoil care: A farmer must find a way to prevent the soil from becoming fouled with mucus and droppings and also tackle undesirable chemical changes that may occur in time.\n\nSoil mix suggestions:\n\nThe U.S. Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Standards for Snail-Rearing Facilities were revised March 2001 and are available on the APHIS website.\n\nEnclosures for snails are usually long and thin instead of square. This allows the workers to walk around (without harming the snails) and reach into the whole pen. The enclosure may be a trough with sides made of wood, block, fiber cement sheets, or galvanized sheet steel. Cover it with screen or netting. The covering confines the snails and keeps out birds and other predators. Fences or walls are usually high plus at least 5 inches into the ground. Fencing made of galvanized metal or hard-plastic sheets helps keep out some predators. A cover will protect against heavy rain. Shade (which may be a fine mesh screen) on warm winter days helps keep the snails dormant. 5 mm mesh or finer is used for pen screens or fences. Pens containing baby snails need a finer mesh.\n\nSnails need hiding places, especially during the warm daytime. Plastic soil drainage pipes from the local garden center can be split in two lengthwise, and stacked one layer one way and the next layer at a right angle, providing shelter and also increasing by 50% the number of snails that can live in the pen.\n\nA sprinkler system ensures moisture when needed and can be turned on at sunset rather than earlier in the day, when the moisture may drive snails out into hot sunshine. Temperature and humidity can be monitored using a thermometer and a hygrometer.\n\nThe bottom of the enclosure, if it is not the ground or trays of dirt, needs be a surface more solid than screening. A snail placed in a wire-mesh-bottom pen will keep crawling, trying to get off the wires and onto solid, more comfortable ground.\n\nIn order to prevent escapes, in an open pen, the top of the fences curve inward in a half circle; this works to confine the vineyard snail. However, \"H. aspersa\" can escape from such an open pen, and an electric fence may be needed to contain them. [The electric fence top has two or more thin wires that are 2 to 4 mm apart. Each wire carries the opposite charge of the wire next to it. A battery or transformer is used to supply 4 to 12 volts to the wire. A snail will get a mild shock and retract when it crawls over a wire and touches a second wire.]\n\nAnother technique to confine snails is to bend the fence top inward into a sharp \"V\" shape with about a 20-degree angle. The snail's shell will hit the bent-back part of the screen before the snail can reach up and start crawling on it. This blocks the snail, and the angled screen automatically compensates for the size of the snail.\n\nAnother alternative, suitable for solid wall enclosures, is to attach to the wall a horizontal piece of screen that projects inward several inches over the enclosure. The screen is made with material such as nylon monofilament that is moderately stiff and springy yet easily flexible. On the inside edge of the screen, the cross fibers are removed, producing a fringe several inches wide. When a snail crawls on the underside of the screen and moves out onto the fringe, his weight pulls several individual fibers down. One by one, another fiber gets away from the snail and springs back up out of reach. Eventually the snail is dangling by a thread. The snail then falls, because the surface area is not big enough to crawl on.\n\nBecause snails usually will not cross a copper band, another solution is to top the fence with 3-inch-wide (or wider) copper band. The band can be bent so that part of it faces inward and is parallel to the pen floor. The band must not be placed very close to the ground, because rain may wash soil against the copper and leave a residue that may enable the snail to cross it. The bottom of the fence must be buried deep enough into the ground so that the snails cannot dig under it.\n\nAn alternate method is to make a square pen with a -square garden in it. Plant about six crops, e.g., nettles and artichokes, inside the pen. The snails will choose what they want to eat. If it has not rained, turn sprinklers on for about 15 minutes at dusk, unless the snails are dormant. A disadvantage to this method is that, if the snails are not mature at the end of the year, it is difficult to replant fresh plant crops in the pens.\n\nPlastic tunnels make cheap, easy snail enclosures, but it is difficult to regulate heat and humidity. The tunnel will be 10 to 20 degrees warmer than the outside, and snails become dormant when the temperature climbs above .\n\nWhen snails are raised indoors under controlled conditions, reproduction varies according to the geographic origin of the breeding stock. For example, one researcher found that \"H. aspersa\" snails from Brittany seem to do better indoors than snails from another region. To breed snails indoors, the temperature needs to be kept at 70 °F and the relative humidity at 80% to 90%; some sources say 95%. Another source recommends 75% humidity by day and 95% at night. The Center for Heliciculture once recommended 65–75% humidity during the day and 85–95% at night at 68 °F. In any event, avoid humidity higher than 95% (some say 90%) for any length of time. Excessive humidity can kill snails. Optimum temperature and relative humidity depend on several things, including the snail variety and even where breeding stock was gathered. For \"H. aspersa\", the optimum temperature for hatching eggs seems to be at 100% relative humidity. The second best temperature/humidity combination depends on where the snails came from and results can drop drastically to 0% hatching at and 100% humidity. The soil must not be kept wet when the humidity is maintained at 100%, as the eggs will absorb water, swell up, and burst.\n\nFluorescent lamps can be used to give artificial daylight. Different snails respond to day length in different ways. The ratio of light to darkness influences activity, feeding, and mating and egg-laying. Eighteen or more hours of light apparently stimulate \"H. aspersa\" growth, while less than 12 hours inhibit it. Some snail species may associates the long hours of light with the start of summer—the peak growing season. Eighteen hours of daylight also appear optimal for breeding (mating and egg laying), but snails will breed in darkness.\n\nSnails can be bred in boxes or cages stacked several units high. An automatic sprinkler system can be used to provide moisture. Breeding cages need a feed trough and a water trough. Plastic trays a couple of inches deep are adequate; deeper water troughs increase the chance of snails drowning in them. Trays can be set on a bed of small gravel. Small plastic pots, e.g., flower pots about 3 inches deep, can be filled with sterilized dirt (or a loamy pH neutral soil) and set in the gravel to give the snails a place to lay their eggs. After the snails lay eggs each pot is replaced. (Set one pot inside another so that one can be easily lifted without shifting the gravel.)\n\nWhen the snails have laid their eggs, the pots are put in a nursery where the eggs will hatch. The young snails are kept in the nursery for about 6 weeks, and then moved to a separate pen, as young snails do best if kept with other snails of similar size. Eight hours of daylight is optimal for young snails.\n\nBaby snails are fed on tender lettuce leaves (Boston type, but head type is probably also good.)\n\nSome who raise \"H. aspersa\" separate the five stages: reproduction, hatching, young, fattening, and final fattening.\n\nIn a typical example, the breeding box has concrete sides, soil with earthworms (to cleanse the soil) on the bottom, vegetation, curved tiles to provide shelter, feeders, and a chicken waterer. Mosquito netting or screening covers the top. These breeding boxes may be outside, or better results may be obtained when the boxes are inside a greenhouse—as long as the greenhouse does not get too hot or too dry. One researcher reported that in outdoor boxes, each breeder snail had about seven young. In greenhouses, each breeder snail had about 9 to 12 young. The researcher felt that under better weather conditions than those he had that year, each adult breeder snail would have produced 15 young snails.\n\nFattening pens can be outside or in a greenhouse. High summer temperatures and insufficient moisture cause dwarfing and malformations of some snails. This is more a problem inside greenhouses if the sun overheats the building. A sprinkler system (e.g., a horticultural system or common lawn sprinklers) can supply moisture. Make sure excess water can drain.\n\nFattening pens may contain pieces (or other convenient size) of heavy plastic sheets, hung from boards resting on a rack that lets the tips of the plastic sheets just touch the ground. The plastic sheets are about 4 inches apart. The sheets give the snails a resting and hiding place. Feeders may be located on the rack that supports the plastic sheets.\n\nA layer of coarse sand and topsoil with earthworms is placed on the fattening pen's bottom. The worms help clean up the snail droppings.\n\nSnails that hatched the previous summer can be put in a chilled room for hibernation over winter. About 1 April, (adjusted for local climate), they are moved to the final fattening pen. IN cases where there are several fattening pens, the smaller snails are placed in one, medium in another, large in another. One-third of a pound of \"H. aspersa\" snails require one square foot of pen. Snails lose weight when they estivate in summer, therefore some growers do not stock pens by weight but by count. For \"H. aspersa\", 10 to 12 snails per square foot is the maximum.\n\nThe first snails to hatch eat the shells of their eggs. This gives them calcium needed for their shells. They may then begin eating unhatched eggs. If the snail eggs are kept at the optimum temperature, (for some varieties), and if none of the eggs lose moisture, most eggs will hatch within 1 to 3 days of each other. Cannibalism also will be low. If hatching extends over a longer period, cannibalism may increase. Some eggs eaten are eggs that were not fertile or did not develop properly, but sometimes, properly developing embryos might be eaten. A high density of \"clutches\" of egg masses increases the rate of cannibalism, as other nearby egg masses are more likely to be found and eaten. Snail egg has 12 to 20 times the protein of lettuce. The protein helps the baby snails start developing quickly and be healthier. Snail egg is an excellent starter food for newly hatched snails, but they tend to only eat eggs of their own species.\n\nFeeding season is April through October, (or may vary with the local climate), with a \"rest period\" during the summer. Do not place food in one small clump so that there is not enough room for all the snails to get to it. Snails eat solid food by rasping it away with their radula. Feeding activity depends on the weather, and snails may not necessarily feed every day. Evening irrigation in dry weather may encourage feeding since the moisture makes it easier for the snails to move about.\n\nPut the breeding snails in the breeding pens in April or early May. Feed until mid June when mating begins and the snails stop feeding. Snails resume eating after they lay eggs. Once snails have laid their eggs, the adult snails can be removed. This leaves more food and less crowding for the hatchlings.\n\nSnails of the same species collected from different regions may have different food preferences. Some foods that snails eat are: Alyssum, fruit and leaves of apple, apricot, artichoke (a favorite), aster, barley, beans, bindweed, California boxwood, almost any cabbage variety, camomile, carnation, carrot, cauliflower, celeriac (root celery), celery, ripe cherries, chive, citrus, clover, cucumbers (a favorite snail food), dandelion, elder, henbane, hibiscus, hollyhock, kale, larkspur (Consolida or Delphinium genera), leek, lettuce (liked, and makes good snails), lily, magnolia, mountain ash, mulberry, chrysanthemum, nasturtium, nettle, nightshade berries, oats, onion greens, pansy, parsley, peach, ripe pears, peas, petunia, phlox, plum, potatoes (raw or cooked), pumpkins, radish, rape, rose, sorrel, spinach, sweet pea, thistle, tomatoes (well liked), turnip, wheat, yarrow, zinnia. They will eat sweet lupines, but will reject bitter lupines and other plants with high quinolizidine alkaloids. Snails also avoid plants that produce other defensive chemicals, defensive stem hairs, etc.\n\nSnails usually prefer juicy leaves and vegetables over dry ones. If snails are fed vegetable trimmings, damaged fruit, and cooked potatoes, uneaten food must be promptly removed as it will quickly spoil. Bran may be supplied that is wet or sprinkled dry over leafy vegetables. The diet may consist of 20% wheat bran while 80% is fruit and vegetable material. Some growers use oats, corn meal, soybean meal, or chicken mash. Laying mash provides calcium, as does crushed oyster shells. Snails also may eat materials such as cardboard (but do not purposely feed it to them); they can eat through shipping cartons and escape. Snails may sometimes eat, within a 24-hour period, food equal to 10%, and occasionally as much as 20%, of their body weight. Active snails deprived of food will lose more than one-third of their weight before they starve to death—a process that takes 8 to 12 weeks. Estivating snails can survive much longer.\n\nSupply calcium at least once a week if it is not available in the soil. It should not contain harmful salts or be so alkaline as to burn the snails. Mix calcium with wet bran or mashed potatoes and serve on a pan; this will keep any leftover food from rotting on the ground.\n\nSome researchers use chicken mash for feed. A plastic pipe can be cut in half lengthwise to make two troughs which can be used as feeders for mash. Mix laying mash (used for egg-producing hens) into the feed to provide calcium for the snails' shells. Commercial chicken feeding mash is around 16% to 17% protein, from fish meal and meat meal, making it good for growing snails. Supplying mash to hatchlings might reduce cannibalism. Two feeds that snails like and that promote good growth are: (A) broiler finisher mash consisting of 7% broiler concentrate, 58% corn, 16% soya, 18% sorghum, 7% limestone flour (40% Ca); and (B) chicken feed (pellets) for layers consisting of 5% layer concentrate, 10%, corn, 15% soya, 20% sorghum, 44% barley, 6% limestone flour (40% Ca).\n\nPellets are fine for larger snails, but mash is better for younger ones. Pellets should be partially crushed if fed to young snails. Snails do not grow well if rabbit pellets are their primary diet. Snails show a distinct preference for moist feed. Easy access to enough water must be ensured if snails are fed dry mash.\n\nBe sure to frequently clean the feed and water dishes. The amount of feed a snail eats depends very much on air humidity and on the availability of drinking water. Clean drinking water can be served in a shallow container to reduce the risk of the snail drowning. Some types of chicken waterers may be suitable. Other factors (e.g., temperature, light intensity, food preferences versus food supplied, etc.) also affect feeding. A compromise, until the optimum feed is found, is to feed half green vegetable material and half chicken feed/grain/animal protein.\n\nYoung \"H. aspersa\" readily eats milk powder. Its rapid rate of assimilation promotes rapid growth.\n\nGood hygiene can prevent the spread of disease and otherwise improve the health and growth rate of snails. Food is replaced daily in order to prevent spoilage. Earthworms added to the soil help keep the pen clean.\n\nParasites, nematodes, trematodes, fungi, and microarthropods can attack snails, and such problems can spread rapidly when snail populations are dense. The bacterium \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" causes intestinal infections that can spread rapidly in a crowded snail pen.\n\nPossible predators include rats, mice, moles, skunks, weasels, birds, frogs and toads, lizards, walking insects (e.g., some beetle and cricket varieties), some types of flies, centipedes, and even certain carnivorous snail species, such as \"Strangesta capillacea\".\n\nPopulation density also affects successful snail production. Pens should contain no more than six to eight fair-sized snails per square foot, or about four large \"H. pomatias\"; or figure one kilogram per square meter (about .2 pounds of snail per square foot), which automatically compensates for the size of the snails. To encourage breeding, best results will occur with not more than eight snails per square meter (0.8 per square foot). Some sources say that, for \"H. pomatia\" to breed, 2 to 4 snails per square meter (0.2 to 0.4 per square foot) is the maximum.\n\nSnails tend not to breed when packed too densely or when the slime in the pen accumulates too much. The slime apparently works like a pheromone and suppresses reproduction. On the other hand, snails in groups of about 100 seem to breed better than when only a few snails are confined together. Perhaps they have more potential mates from which to choose. Snails in a densely populated area grow more slowly even when food is abundant, and they also have a higher mortality rate. These snails then become smaller adults who lay fewer clutches of eggs, have fewer eggs per clutch, and the eggs have a lower hatch rate. Smaller adult snails sell for less. Dwarfing is quite common in snail farming and is attributable mainly to rearing conditions rather than heredity factors. Crowding snails is false economy. A recommended rate for \"H. aspersa\" is not more than one-third pound per square foot (3.6 kg/m²) of soil surface for snails that weigh more than 1 gram and not more than 0.2 pound per square foot (2.2 kg/m²) for snails that weigh less. (One ounce is about 28 grams.)\n\nSnails are mature when a lip forms at the opening of their shell. Before they mature, their shells are more easily broken, making them undesirable. For \"H. aspersa\", commercial weight is 8 grams or larger. The nutrient composition of raw snails (per 100 grams of edible portion), according to information from the nutrient databank of France, is:\n\nSnail eggs are also harvested and processed to produce snail caviar.\n\nThe same snails that some people raise or gather as food also are agricultural pests that cause considerable crop damage. Introduced slug and snail varieties tend to be worse pests than native species, probably due in part to the lack of natural controls. Snail pests attack crops ranging from leafy vegetables to fruits that grow near the ground, such as strawberries and tomatoes, to citrus fruits high up on trees.\n\nThe Federal Plant Pest Act defines a plant pest as \"any living stage (including active and dormant forms) of insects, mites, nematodes, slugs, snails, protozoa, or other invertebrate animals, bacteria, fungi, other parasitic plants or reproductive parts thereof; viruses; or any organisms similar to or allied with any of the foregoing; or any infectious substances, which can directly or indirectly injure or cause disease or damage in or to any plants or parts thereof, or any processed, manufactured, or other products of plants...\" The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) categorizes giant African snails as a \"quarantine significant plant pest.\" The United States does not allow live giant African snails into the country under any circumstances. It is illegal to own or to possess them. APHIS vigorously enforces this regulation and destroys or returns these snails to their country of origin.\n\nSince large infestations of snails can do devastating damage, many states have quarantines against nursery products, and other products, from infested states. Further, it is illegal to import snails (or slugs) into the U.S. without permission from the Plant Protection and Quarantine Division (PPQ), Animal Plant Health and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture. APHIS also oversees interstate transportation of snails. Anyone who plans to \"import, release, or make interstate shipments of\" snails, must complete APHIS's PPQ Form 526, Application and Permit to Move Live Plant Pests and Noxious Weeds. This form should be submitted to the State regulatory official. The state will process the request and make a recommendation to APHIS who will then make a decision.\n\nInformation on Plant Pest Permits is available at APHIS's website .\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates the canning of low-acid foods such as snails. According to FDA, \"establishments engaged in the manufacture of Low-acid or Acidified Canned Foods (LACF) offered for interstate commerce in the United States are required...to register their facility...and file scheduled processes for their products with\" the FDA. This does not refer to fresh products. For appropriate forms, contact: LACF Registration Coordinator, HFS-618, Food and Drug Administration, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, 200 C Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20204. Telephone: (202) 205-5282. FAX: (202) 205-4758 or (202) 205-4128.\n\nImproper canning of low-acid meats, e.g., snails, involves a risk of botulism. When canning snails for home consumption, carefully follow canning instructions for low-acid meats to prevent food poisoning.\n\nState laws also may apply to imports into certain states and to raising snails in a given state. Some states may want to inspect and approve facilities. Thus anyone who plans to raise snails also should check with their State's Agriculture Department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48204902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48204902", "title": "Herpes Viruses Association", "text": "Herpes Viruses Association\n\nThe Herpes Association (now the Herpes Viruses Association) was started in 1982. It is a support group for people with Herpes simplex virus. It conducts information campaigns and attempts to reduce the stigma associated with sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nIt became a registered charity with a Dept of Health grant in 1985. The charity started as a string of local group meetings before acquiring an office and a national spread. It is widely referred to as a source of help for patients who are anxious about the conditions, primarily genital herpes.\n\nThe Association campaigns against the transmission of herpes being treated as a criminal offence. It supported David Golding who was convicted and imprisoned for infecting a woman with genital herpes in 2011. Their spokesman said the sentence for causing grievous bodily harm was ‘outrageous’ and compared it to prosecuting children for ‘giving their friends chicken pox’, or passing on a cold sore.\n\nIt supported the campaign to keep the sexual health services of the Countess of Chester Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in 2014.\n\nIt carried out a double-blind trial of liquorice lip balm on forty people in 2014 and found that it reduced the severity of symptoms in most subjects. Marian Nicholson, the Director of the Association, is frequently quoted in relation to research into the development of remedies.\n\nDr Phil Hammond (comedian) is the president of the association. Between 1993 and 2002 Clare Rayner was one of its patrons.\n"}
{"id": "37394072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37394072", "title": "Inguinal lymphadenopathy", "text": "Inguinal lymphadenopathy\n\nInguinal lymphadenopathy causes swollen lymph nodes in the groin area. It can be a symptom of infective or neoplastic processes. \nInfective aetiologies include Tuberculosis, HIV, non-specific or reactive lymphadenopathy to recent lower limb infection or groin infections. Another notable infectious cause is Lymphogranuloma venereum, which is a sexually transmitted infection of the lymphatic system. Neoplastic aetiologies include lymphoma, leukaemia and metastatic disease from primary tumours in the lower limb, external genitalia or perianal region and melanoma. \n"}
{"id": "58033004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58033004", "title": "Initiative: Eau", "text": "Initiative: Eau\n\nInitiative: Eau is an American nonprofit, non-governmental organization dedicated to increasing the safety and quality of drinking water services in developing urban areas. Founded in 2013, Initiative: Eau is headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.A. with a regional office for West Africa in Fada N'gourma, Burkina Faso. The organization is in Special Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council since 2017.\n\nInitiative: Eau is a member of the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council, Sanitation and Water for All, the Global Water Partnership, the Rural Water Supply Network, and the Global Network of Civil Society Organisations for Disaster Reduction. The organization received the Technology Innovation Award from the International Society for Neglected Tropical Diseases (ISNTD) Water conference in November 2016 for WASHMobile, the predecessor to current program H2Odata.city. In 2018, the organization was named a \"2018 Top-Rated Nonprofit\" by GreatNonprofits and received a 2018 Platinum Seal of Transparency from GuideStar. \n\nInitiative: Eau was founded on 31 July 2013 by Donald Joseph Brooks and Christina Long in Bangor, Maine, U.S.A. The two created the initiative following a presentation at their high school describing the Water Crisis in Burkina Faso. Initiative: Eau was borne out of a series of charitable 5 kilometer road races which took place in Maine and northern Massachusetts.\nAs of August 2016, the organization had a staff of 14 across three continents.\n\nH2Odata.city\nH2Odata.city is a water infrastructure sustainability project to improve local water infrastructure monitoring and maintenance capacity through the training and responsibilization of maintenance entities. An instance of the project in Fada N'gourma, Burkina Faso named H2Odata.city.fada was recently funded through a community development grant from the Embassy of the United States of America to Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou and another from the International Foundation. The project is expected to result in a 66% reduction in the number of water source breakdowns and an 83% reduction in the amount of time a water source remains non-functional after breaking in the city.\nFoire de l'Eau\nThe Foire de l'Eau is a bi-annual event hosted by Initiative: Eau and the BARKA Foundation. The first edition of the event was held between 21-25 March 2018 in Fada N'gourma, and was the national World Water Day event for Burkina Faso. Organized with a number of partners including Eau Vive, WaterAid, the Gourma Water Agency, the Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA), UNICEF, and the Ministry of Water and Sanitation of Burkina Faso. the event aimed to promote synergies and collaboration between the various actors of the Burkinabè water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) sector.\n"}
{"id": "36579034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36579034", "title": "Kuwait Water Towers", "text": "Kuwait Water Towers\n\nThe Kuwait Water Towers are a prominent group of 31 water towers in Kuwait City, completed in 1976. \n\nIn 1965, the government of Kuwait commissioned the Swedish engineering company of VBB (since 1997 Sweco) to develop and implement a plan for a modern water-supply system for Kuwait City. The company built five groups of water towers, 31 in total, designed by its chief architect Sune Lindström, called \"the mushroom towers\". They were built by VBB out of standard reinforced concrete. Each tower holds 3,000 cubic meters of water. The tower groups are distinguished by number, height, color and ornamentation and they serve as landmarks for their districts. \n\nFor a sixth site, the Amir of Kuwait, Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmed, wanted a more spectacular design. This last group, known as Kuwait Towers, consists of three towers, two of which also serve as water towers. Water from the desalination facility is pumped up to the tower.\n\nThese thirty-three towers have together a standard capacity of 102,000 cubic meters of water. \"The Water Towers\" (The Kuwait Tower and the Kuwait Water Towers) were awarded the Aga Khan Award for Architecture (1980 Cycle).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3546312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3546312", "title": "List of children's hospitals", "text": "List of children's hospitals\n\nThis is a list of children's hospitals, hospitals that specialize in pediatrics.\n\nA children's hospital is a hospital that offers its services exclusively to children and adolescents. Most children's hospitals can serve children from birth up to the age of 18, or in some instances, children's hospitals' doctors may treat children until they finish high school. The number of children's hospitals proliferated in the 20th century, as pediatric medical and surgical specialties separated from internal medicine and adult surgical specialties.\n\nChildren's hospitals are characterized by greater attention to the psychosocial support of children and their families. Some children and young people have to spend relatively long periods in the hospital, so having access to play and teaching staff can also be an important part of their care. With local partnerships, this can include trips to local botanical gardens, the zoo, and public libraries, for instance.\n\nIn addition to psychosocial support, children's hospitals have the added benefit of being staffed by professionals who are trained in treating children. A medical doctor that undertakes vocational training in pediatrics must also be accepted for membership by a professional college before they can practice pediatrics. While many normal hospitals can treat children adequately, pediatric specialists may be a better choice when it comes to treating rare afflictions that may prove fatal or severely detrimental to young children, in some cases before birth. Also, many children's hospitals will continue to see children with rare illnesses into adulthood, allowing for a continuity of care.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSt Jude Children's Research Hospital (Little Rock)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191218", "title": "Low birth-weight paradox", "text": "Low birth-weight paradox\n\nThe low birth-weight paradox is an apparently paradoxical observation relating to the birth weights and mortality rate of children born to tobacco smoking mothers. Low birth-weight children born to smoking mothers have a \"lower\" infant mortality rate than the low birth weight children of non-smokers. It is an example of Simpson's paradox.\n\nTraditionally, babies weighing less than a certain amount (which varies between countries) have been classified as having \"low birth weight\". In a given population, low birth weight babies have a significantly higher mortality rate than others; thus, populations with a higher rate of low birth weights typically also have higher rates of child mortality than other populations.\n\nBased on prior research, the children of smoking mothers are more likely to be of low birth weight than children of non-smoking mothers. Thus, by extension the child mortality rate should be higher among children of smoking mothers. So it is a surprising real-world observation that low birth weight babies of smoking mothers have a lower child mortality than low birth weight babies of non-smokers.\n\nAt first sight these findings seemed to suggest that, at least for some babies, having a smoking mother might be beneficial to one's health. However the paradox can be explained statistically by uncovering a \"lurking variable\" between smoking and the two key variables: birth weight and risk of mortality. Both variables are acted on independently by smoking and other adverse conditions — birth weight is lowered and the risk of mortality increases. However, each condition does not necessarily affect both variables to the same extent.\n\nThe birth weight distribution for children of smoking mothers is shifted to lower weights by their mothers' actions. Therefore, otherwise healthy babies (who would weigh more if it were not for the fact their mother smoked) are born underweight. However, they still have a lower mortality rate than children who have other, more severe, medical reasons why they are born underweight.\n\nIn short, smoking is harmful in that it contributes to low birth weight which has higher mortality than normal birth weight, but other causes of low birth weight are generally \"more\" harmful than smoking.\n\nIf one corrects and adjusts for the confounding by smoking, via stratification or multivariable regression modelling to statistically control for smoking, one finds that the association between birth weight and mortality may be attenuated towards the null. Nevertheless, most epidemiologic studies of birth weight and mortality have controlled for maternal smoking, and the adjusted results, although attenuated after adjusting for smoking, still indicated a significant association.\n\nAdditional support for the hypothesis that birth weight and mortality can be acted on independently came from the analysis of birth data from Colorado: compared with the birth weight distribution in the US as a whole, the distribution curve in Colorado is also shifted to lower weights. The overall child mortality of Colorado children is the same as that for US children however, and if one corrects for the lower weights as above, one finds that babies of a given (corrected) weight are just as likely to die, whether they are from Colorado or not. The likely explanation here is that the higher altitude of Colorado affects birth weight, but not mortality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40561621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40561621", "title": "Malaria Policy Advisory Committee", "text": "Malaria Policy Advisory Committee\n\nThe Malaria Policy Advisory Committee is an international organization that works to prevent malaria.\n\nThe World Health Organization presently works with international MPAC members, led by Doctor Salim Abdulla, for initiatives such as the fight against malaria. Members are from countries which include; Tanzania, Spain, Ghana, Australia, England, Cameroon, Sudan, Kenya, Sri Lanka, The Philippines, Switzerland, India, and Thailand.\n"}
{"id": "12306701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12306701", "title": "Maurice Watkins (solicitor)", "text": "Maurice Watkins (solicitor)\n\nEdward Maurice Watkins (born November 1941) LLB, LLM is the current chairman of football club Barnsley. He has represented high-profile clients in criminal trials including Eric Cantona and Stuart Hall.\n\nHe was a Director of Manchester United's football board. He was also the club's solicitor. He is Joint Senior Partner of Brabners Chaffe Street LLP Solicitors in Manchester.\n\nWatkins was educated at Manchester Grammar School and University College London.\n\nAt a January 1995 match with Crystal Palace Eric Cantona performed a 'kung fu' kick into the crowd following abuse from Matthew Simmons. Watkins represented Cantona at the ensuing assault trial. Watkins represented former BBC broadcaster Stuart Hall at Hall's trial for indecent assault, at which Hall admitted to indecently assaulting 13 girls. Watkins' effective representation lead to Hall receiving a jail sentence of 15 months for the charges.\n\n\nMartin Edwards asked Watkins to become a director of Manchester United Football Club in May 1984 on the same day as Bobby Charlton. In 1991, when Martin Edwards floated Manchester United on the stock exchange, Watkins joined the PLC Board as a non-executive director. Edwards and Watkins were the only two directors who served both on the Football Board and the PLC Board. At the AGM in 2005 Malcolm Glazer opposed Watkins' re-election to the PLC board along with two other directors Philip Yea a fellow non-executive director and Andy Anson. After Malcolm Glazer had completed his takeover of Manchester United he de-listed it from the stock exchanged and made it a private company once again. Watkins remains on the club's football board and is the club's lawyer.\n\nWatkins has overseen numerous high-profile football transfers both at home in the United Kingdom and abroad. He has also represented clubs and players before FIFA, UEFA, the Football Association, the Premier League and the Football League disciplinary bodies. Also he has represented players and clubs at the Court of Arbitration for Sport and international and league compensation tribunals. He has worked with the South Africa and Nigerian Premier leagues in respect of broadcasting and regulatory matters as well as the Egyptian Sports Council and UAE footballing authorities.\n\nWatkins regularly speaks on football and sports law issues within the United Kingdom and internationally. He has represented both the Football Association and the Premier League at conferences in Egypt, France, Qatar, Spain, United Arab Emirates, Trinidad and Tobago and Japan.\n\nIn 2012 Watkins was named interim Rugby Football League Chairman when Richard Lewis' moved on.\n\nOn 29 June 2012, Watkins stepped down from the board of Manchester United Football Club Ltd after 28 years with the club.\n\nOn 30 May 2013 it was announced that Watkins would become chairman of Championship football club Barnsley.\n\nOn 31 August 2017, Barnsley announced that Watkins was leaving the club's board of directors and his role as chairman.\n\nWatkins is involved with several causes. Previous roles have included Chairman of the New Children's Hospital Appeal. With his leadership the appeal successfully raised £20 million to provide beds for parents on wards and additional and up-to-date equipment at the new state-of-the-art Royal Manchester Children's Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "35241117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35241117", "title": "Maynilad Water Services", "text": "Maynilad Water Services\n\nMaynilad Water Services, Inc., also known as Maynilad, is the water and wastewater services provider of cities and municipalities that form the West Zone of the Greater Metro Manila Area in the Philippines. It is an agent and contractor of the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS).\n\nIncorporated in 1997, Maynilad currently serves over 9 million people in the cities of Makati (west of South Super Highway), Manila (certain portions), Quezon City (certain portions), Caloocan, Las Piñas, Malabon, Muntinlupa, Navotas, Parañaque, Pasay, and Valenzuela, all in Metro Manila; the cities of Cavite, Bacoor and Imus, and the towns of Kawit, Noveleta and Rosario, all in Cavite Province.\nAs part of the water privatization in Metro Manila, the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System awarded contracts to two companies splitting Metro Manila into a west and east zones. Maynilad Water Services Inc. was formed in 1997 as a partnership of the Benpres Holdings Corporation (now the Lopez Group of Companies) and Ondeo Water Services Inc. after it won the bidding to run the water and wastewater services in the West Zone.\n\nBenpres eventually left the partnership in 2006 to settle a US$240 million debt. Then January 24, 2007, a consortium led by Metro Pacific Investments Corporation and the DMCI Holdings, Inc. took over the company and able to pay the debt by January 2008.\n\nAngat Dam is the main source of water for Metro Manila. It supplies about 90 percent of raw water requirements for Metro Manila through the facilities of the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System. Maynilad is sourcing its more than 90 percent raw water supply requirement from Angat Dam.\n\nLaguna de Bay is the other sources of water of Maynilad, mainly serving Muntinlupa and Cavite.\n\n\n\nBy the end of 2017, Maynilad posted a total of 1,358,758 accounts or about 9.4 million people in its customer base. Almost all customers of Maynilad enjoy 24-hour uninterrupted water supply at an average pressure of seven pounds per square inch.\n\nWhen Maynilad was re-privatized in 2007, the company was losing some 1,500 million liters of treated water per day. This translated to a Non-Revenue Water (NRW) level of 67%—meaning two-thirds of the potable water it was producing was being lost.\n\nMost of the water—some 75% —was lost through the old and inefficient distribution system Maynilad inherited from the government and its previous owners. In fact, the company’s pipe network is considered the oldest in Asia, some dating back to the time when the Philippines was still under the Spanish rule.\n\nWhile a massive pipe replacement program would have dramatically reduced its NRW in a short amount of time, Maynilad decided against it because it would ultimately result in significantly higher tariffs for its customers. Instead, it invested in its human resources, technical equipment, engineering methodologies and internal procedures so it could serve more people through less water losses.\n\nAfter launching what was dubbed as the “largest NRW management project in the world”, Maynilad has successfully brought down its NRW level to an all-time low of 31% by the end of 2017.\n\nIn 2017, Maynilad plugged a total of 26,792 pipe leaks within its concessionaire area thus bringing the company’s total leak repairs to 316,757 since its re-privatization in 2007.\n\nMaynilad’s water loss reduction efforts have been recognized by various organizations including the International Water Association and the United Nations Human Settlements Programme (UN Habitat).\n\nAside from water services, Maynilad also manages wastewater in the West Zone in the form of sewerage and sanitation services.\n\nSewerage services involve the treatment of wastewater conveyed via a sewer network to Maynilad’s sewage treatment plants. At present, only residents and establishments in Ayala Alabang Village in Muntinlupa City, Magallanes Village in Makati, portions of Manila, Malabon, and Navotas, Project 7 and Project 8 in Quezon City, and portions of South Caloocan may connect to Maynilad’s sewerage system.\n\nMeanwhile, Maynilad offers sanitation services or septic tank cleaning to households that are not yet connected to its sewer system. Septic tank cleaning or desludging comes at no extra cost for residential and semi-business account holders, and is conducted every five to seven years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57551256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57551256", "title": "Methamphetamine in Bangladesh", "text": "Methamphetamine in Bangladesh\n\nMethamphetamine in Bangladesh is an illegal substance that is often consumed in the form of Yaba. Yaba is a drug made by combining methamphetamine and caffeine. They are sold as colorful pills. There are three forms of Yaba in Bangladesh, they are R-7, Controller, and Champa. \n\nAccording to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Myanmar is believed to be the main origin point of Yaba in South-East Asia and the Mekong region including in Bangladesh. Drug gangs in Myanmar shifted from Heroin to Methamphetamine manufacturing in the late 1990s. Bangladesh shares a 250 km border with Myanmar. Cooperation between Border Guards Bangladesh and Myanmar Border Guard Police is limited, according to Border Guards Bangladesh the Border Guard Police do not receive nine out of ten of their calls. The majority of drugs entered Bangladesh through the border at Teknaf. The Usage of Yaba started to become popular in Bangladesh from 2006. In 2010, law enforcement seized 84 thousand yaba pills in Bangladesh, which rose to 29.5 million pills seized in 2016. \n\nBangladesh government officials estimated that the trade in Yaba was worth 3 billion USD in 2016. According to the Department of Narcotic Control the main consumers of the drugs are students. According to the Director General of the Narcotics Control Board, Md Jamal Uddin Ahmed, there are 7 million drug addicts in Bangladesh of whom 5 million are addicted to Yaba. The trade in Yaba increased during the Rohingya refugee crises, the influx of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar also increases the influx of Yaba into Bangladesh. Yaba bought in Myanmar for 40 cent a pill can be sold for 3-4 dollar in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\nIn May 2018, Bangladesh launched a massive anti-narcotics crackdown that was modeled on the Philippines drug crackdown in which more than 211 people were killed in shootout with law enforcement. Security services Arrested hundreds of suspects in a span of few days. The crackdown has been criticised by Human Rights Watch and The Daily Star for alleged extra-judicial killings and human rights abuses by law enforcement.\n\nThe Department of Narcotic Control is the main government agency responsible for the regulation of drugs in Bangladesh. According to the Department of Narcotic Control, the government of Bangladesh maintains 12 drug rehabilitation centres. The Narcotics Control Act 2019 is one of the laws that regulate narcotics in Bangladesh. In 2017, Bangladesh import of pseudoephedrine, a component of cold medicine that is used to manufacture amphetamines.\n\n"}
{"id": "41380166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41380166", "title": "Narayana Health", "text": "Narayana Health\n\nNarayana Health (formerly known as Narayana Hrudyalaya) is a chain of multi-speciality hospitals, heart centres, and primary care facilities with its headquarters in, Bengaluru, India. Founded by Dr. Devi Shetty in the year 2000.\n\nNarayana Health has its presence across major Indian cities Bangalore, Delhi, Gurugram, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mumbai, Mysore etc. with an international subsidiary in the Cayman Islands. The facilities offer medical care in over 30 medical specialities and three of its hospitals - Narayana Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Bangalore, and Health City Cayman Islands - are JCI accredited. In addition to offering services at its own facilities, Narayana Health has one of the world’s largest telemedicine networks, connecting 800 centres globally.\n\nDr. Devi Shetty founded Narayana Hrudalaya (NH) in the year  2000 with a heart hospital in Bangalore. He later initiated the concept of micro health insurance scheme along with the Karnataka government called Yeshashwini scheme. During the same period NH started its second hospital in Kolkata – Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.\n\nFrom 2009-2012 Narayana Hrudalaya established hospitals in Jamshedpur, Jaipur, Dhawad, Raipur, Ahmedabad, Mysore, and Davangere. In 2013, Narayana Hrudyalaya officially changed its identity to Narayana Health. It now operates several hospitals and heart centres across India, making it the second largest hospital network in India (based on operational bed count). Since 2014, the group operates Health City Cayman Islands in Grand Caymen.\n\nNarayana Hrudyalaya was listed on the BSE and the NSE on 6 January 2016. Upon debut, the company was valued at over 1 Billion USD.\n\nNorth India\n\n\nWest India\n\n\nSouth India\n\n\nEast India\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6427233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6427233", "title": "Obstetric Flying Squad", "text": "Obstetric Flying Squad\n\nAn Obstetric Flying Squad is a form of medical retrieval team that is composed of an obstetrician, anaesthetist, midwife and other healthcare personnel who are on-call to attend to mothers with major obstetric complications occurring in the community.\n\nThe idea of having an Obstetric Flying Squad was suggested by Professor E Farquhar Murray who wrote that \"instead of rushing a shocked and collapsed patient to hospital for nursing and specialist aid, the specialist and nurse should be rushed to the patient\" (see Liang reference below). In the United Kingdom in the 1930s, the majority of births occurred in the home.\n\nThe first organised obstetric flying squad was started by H. J. Thomson in Bellshill, Lanarkshire, Scotland in 1933 to provide emergency back-up to general practitioners and midwives involved in home births.\n\nThe commonest major problems dealt with by the squad were:\n\nThe mothers were frequently severely shocked and the baby was also likely to be in a precarious position. Many lives were saved during the early years of operation of the service. Other countries with high home-birth rates subsequently copied the idea and set up similar services.\n\nIn most developed countries the majority of births now occur in hospitals and the ambulance services are well-developed, so the need for the service is extremely low. Less than 1% of births in the UK now occur in the home. The priority now is for rapid transport of distressed mothers to a hospital.\n\nThe original aim was to primarily manage obstetric complications on site, then secondarily transport the mother and child to hospital. This gradually evolved into primary on-site resuscitation than rapid transport to definitive care in a hospital. The concept of a hospital medical team going to retrieve patients continues in the concept of trauma retrieval teams.\n\nThe flying squad typically consisted of an obstetrician, anaesthetist, midwife, and a helper such as a hospital orderly. The service was activated following a phone call for assistance, and the team members would 'fly' (meaning 'travel quickly') to the scene.\nThe anaesthetic equipment initially was quite simple and consisted of a Schimmelbusch mask to administer chloroform. Later more sophisticated equipment was used. Of great importance was intravenous infusion equipment, intravenous fluids and later the provision of group O blood.\n\n"}
{"id": "18424155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18424155", "title": "Office International d'Hygiène Publique", "text": "Office International d'Hygiène Publique\n\nThe Office International d'Hygiène Publique (OIHP) () was an international organization founded 9 December 1907 and based in Paris, France. It was created to oversee international rules regarding the quarantining of ships and ports to prevent the spread of plague and cholera, and to administer other public health conventions.\n\nThe OIHP was dissolved by protocols signed 22 July 1946 and its epidemiological service was incorporated into the Interim Commission of the World Health Organization on 1 January 1947.\n"}
{"id": "39021151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39021151", "title": "Organisation for the Prevention of Blindness", "text": "Organisation for the Prevention of Blindness\n\nThe Organisation for the Prevention of Blindness (French: ) is an international non-governmental organisation (INGO) whose actions today focus exclusively on French-speaking countries in West Africa. Their mission is to preserve and restore sight amongst some of the most under-privileged communities in the region. The OPC's principal actions concern blindness prevention, treatment and the elimination of blinding diseases, such as onchocerciasis, trachoma, glaucoma and cataracts as well as formal ophthalmological training.\n\nThe OPC was founded on January 13, 1978 by Christian Monnier. Retired from the banking industry, he decided to work with Professor André Dubois-Poulsen, who was the head of department of the XV-XX Hospital and President of the French Ophthalmological Society and Pierre Aubé, an ex-financial advisor.\n\nProfessor Dubois-Poulsen presided over the OPC Board of Directors for eight years and organised its first projects in Africa, notably the Yeleen Program in Mali. Thanks to this project, the OPC became a member of the International Agency for Prevention of Blindness (IAPB)\n\nOver the years, the OPC has greatly increased its number of missions, creating primary eye care networks, and supporting the African Institute of Tropical Ophthalmology (IOTA).\nThen, under the presidency of Professor Jean Langlois, the ex-Head of department of the CHU of Rouen, and thanks to Dr. Marcel Chauvet, the medical Inspector General, onchocerciasis, or “river blindness”, control in Africa was elevated to high priority. Onchocerciasis control is still being carried out in conjunction with other NGOs and the World Health Organization. Links were also established with the Ministry of Cooperation and Development.\n\nDuring this period of the OPC’s history, a program to create an ophthalmological service in at GRALL Pediatric Hospital in Saigon (Vietnam) was successfully led for five years.\n\nIn 1997, Professor Langlois became Honorary President, giving the position of President to Professor Yves Pouliquen, ex-Head of the Ophthalmological Department of l’Hôtel-Dieu in Paris, member of the Academy Française from 2001, and member of the French National Academy of Medicine and the International Academy of Ophthalmology.\n\nFrom 1997, Professor Pouliquen reinforced the importance of onchocerciasis and trachoma control in West Africa with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They also developed technical support for the treatment of cataracts. Dr Dominique Négrel, Executive Director of the OPC, expert in ophthalmological public health and in the implementation of eye care structures, contributed greatly to the OPC’s involvement in training health workers in ophthalmology.\n\nAdditionally, the OPC implemented a support plan to help combat age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) by providing several centres with powerful diagnostic materials integrated into the resources. This plan was led forward by OPC Vice-President Professor Christian Corbé, medical Inspector General and founding President of the Representative Association of Low-Vision Initiatives, Dr. Jean-François Ceccon, ophthalmologist, administrator and ex-Chief Programs Officer of the OPC, and Denis Brillard, OPC administrator and Director of the Welcome centre and Head of the rehabilitation for the blind in Nîmes, ARAMAV.\n\nIn 2006, the OPC debuted a prevention program for diabetic retinopathy in collaboration with the Valentin Haüy Association, and the AP-HP (Public Hospitals’ Public Assistance) OPHDIAT network. 16 centres were equipped in the Paris region and in Province (the province).\n\nThe same year, at the initiative of the OPC, a think-tank composed of 5 Parisian hospitals participated in a network constitution project (WTF) concerning low vision in Île de France.\n\nIn 2010, after 12 years as OPC President, Professor Pouliquen gave the reins to Nathalie Brunet, a jurist and head of a French company that is a world leader in its field. The OPC developed its missions in French-speaking countries, mainly Africans ones, but also in Haiti and Moldova as well as in France.\n\nIn 2011, Dr Serge Resknioff became President of the OPC. He is the former head of Prevention of Blindness and Deafness at the WHO and is involved in various organisations associated with blindness prevention.\n\n\nMany personalities support the OPC. \n\nClaudie Haigneré: Scientist, Astronaut, former Minister delegate for Research and President of Université Science 1, Sorbonne, Paris.\nJean-Loup Dabadie: Writer, Journalist, Playwright, Scriptwriter and Member of the French Academy.\n\nRokia Traoré: Songwriter, Singer and Guitarist. President of the Passerelle Foundation.\n\nMoh! Kouyaté: Musician, singer, guitarist.\n\nAyo: Singer-songwriter and guitarist.\n\nMikelangelo Loconte: Singer, songwriter, performer and artistic director. Role of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in Mozart, l’Opéra rock.\n\nIn developing French-speaking African countries, cataracts, trachoma, onchocerciasis and glaucoma are the main causes of visual impairment and blindness. It is also estimated that 80% of causes of loss of vision are avoidable and/or curable. This is why the OPC works with its various partners in the creation, implementation, the follow-up and evaluation of sustainable programs that address the greatest number possible and allow:\n\n\nThe OPC sets up training programs for ON (Ophthalmic Nurse) and OCO (Ophthalmic Clinical Officer) level ophthalmic mid-level personnel. There are between 8 and 12 students each academic year.\n\n\nTwo ophthalmologists have finished their training in Senegal and in Mali and have been placed in public health ophthalmic structures equipped by the OPC at the end of 2011.\n\nTwo IOTA-enrolled Malian ophthalmologists received grants to train at performing surgeries in a rural environment.\n\nA library collection made up of ophthalmology specialized books and teaching materials, designed for use by nurses in training (ISO and/or TSO level), have been provided by the OPC for:\n\nGuinea: sent in September 2012\n\nNiger: sent in May 2012\n\nThe OPC upgrades infrastructures designed to provide eye care.\n\nIn close partnership with the national programme for blindness control, the equipment and consultation needed to open four community health centers in the regions of Kayes and Bamako were provided and delivered by the OPC.\n\nIn partnership with the national programme for blindness control and the Lions Club in Niger, a meeting was organised in December 2013 with an eye to identify the equipment needed for the primanry and secondary centers in two regions of the country: Tahoua and Tillabéri.\n\nThrough the partnership between Donka Hospital, the Conakry Urban Community and the OPC, Donka Hospital’s ophthalmological department was renovated in September 2012. In November 2012, the OPC installed new equipment, including an operating microscope, cataract and trichiasis kits, wearable magnifying glasses, diagnostic sets, an air conditioner and a generator. Today, the service is open for consultation and for surgical operations.\nThrough the partnership between Siguiri Hospital, the Siguiri Urban Community and the OPC, the hospital’s ophthalmological department was renovated in July 2012. The equipment, received by the Conakry Lions (Lions Club), was transported and installed by OPC in September 2012. The service is open for consultation and for surgical operations.\n\nThe premises were renovated before beginning the OCO training classes at the General Hospital of Bangui in July 2012.\n\nThe OPC works to deliver quality and sustainable eye care services to those in need\n\n\"The OPC has been present in the Republic of the Congo since 1998\"\n\n2013 Results: Supporting the National Programme for Onchocerciasis Control (PLNO): \n\n\n\"The OPC has been present in Guinea since 1993\"\n\n2013 Results: \n\n\"The OPC has been present in Mali since 1981\"\n\n2013 Results: \n\n\n\"The OPC has been present in Central African Republic since 1994\"\n\n2013 Results: \n\n\n\"The OPC has been present in Senegal since 1980\"\n\n2013 Results: \n\n\n\"The OPC has been present in Chad since 1997\"\n\n2013 Results: \n\nMedical and technical support given to hospital centres in Moundou and Mongo, for the ophthalmology department of the National General Reference Hospital.\n\n\nThe OPC’s activities are currently being supported by the expertise of numerous professionals who make up the Board of Directors, particularly in the field of ophthalmology, of public eye health, of tropical medicine, of optometry and of epidemiology.\n\nWith the aim of leading its missions with professionalism and of being able to respond in the best way to public health issues that confront it, the OPC has built up special relationships with its partners, referring to their fields of expertise. Here are the associations and institutions with which the OPC has collaborated, or still collaborates:\n\nThe OPC also works in close collaboration with other international organisations working in the same sector:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38695877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38695877", "title": "Permanent Representative of Finland to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Finland to the United Nations\n\nThis is a list of the Permanent Representatives of the Republic of Finland to the United Nations. The current office holder is Kai Sauer.\n\n"}
{"id": "29360496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29360496", "title": "Peter Bossman", "text": "Peter Bossman\n\nPeter Bossman (born 2 November 1955) is a Ghanaian-born Slovenian doctor and politician. He is currently serving as mayor of Piran, a city and municipality in Slovenian Istria in south-western Slovenia. A member of the centre-left Social Democrats, he defeated the incumbent mayor Tomaž Gantar in the October 2010 mayoral election to become Slovenia's first black mayor. In 2011 he was also appointed to the Committee of the Regions of the European Union.\n\nBossman was born in Accra, the capital of Ghana (then known as the Gold Coast), on 2 November 1955. Bossman came from a relatively well-off family. His father was a politician, as well as a friend and personal physician of Kwame Nkrumah, Ghana's leader from independence. Bossman spent much of his early life in North Africa, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, where his father helped found Ghanaian embassies.\n\nFollowing a 1966 coup that saw members of the National Liberation Council overthrow Nkrumah's elected government, Bossman was forced to leave Ghana. He was unable to come to Britain, where he had originally hoped to study, and so chose to come to Yugoslavia, originally hoping to study in Belgrade. He was ultimately sent to Ljubljana, however, arriving as a medical student in what was then the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, within Yugoslavia, in 1977. He has said that he \"fell in love\" with Slovenia when he arrived, finding it \"clean and green\". While he was studying, he remained politically active, heading an African students' organisation.\n\nHis original intention to return to Ghana upon completing his studies was disrupted when he fell in love with a Croat woman, Karmen Laković, a fellow student. After completing his studies, he and Karmen, also a doctor, settled in Piran, where they run a private practice. They are now married and have two daughters.\n\nBossman, previously a member of the Piran City Council, successfully ran for mayor in 2010, narrowly defeating his opponent, the incumbent independent centre-right mayor Tomaž Gantar. In the run-off election on 24 October, he achieved 51.4% of the vote, defeating Gantar, who got 48.4%. Unofficial figures following the counting of all ballots showed Bossman with 3418 votes, 185 more votes than the 3233 cast for Gantar. The relatively low turnout, 44% of all voters, was deplored by both candidates.\n\nBossman's campaign focused on encouraging people to drive electric cars, building a golf course to promote tourism, and promoting local products. He has also pledged to work to try to improve Croatia–Slovenia relations, which have been recently strained over a number of minor border disputes. Bossman has stated that race was not much of an issue during the election, although he did receive criticism on account of his supposed lack of fluency in Slovene. He has stated that a friend, a professor of Slovene, has offered to give him additional lessons.\n\nBossman officially took office at the first (constitutive) meeting of the municipal council on 12 November 2010. His inauguration as mayor attracted more members of the media, including international media, than there were council members present.\n\nBossman was re-elected for a second term as mayor on 19 October 2014. \n\nBossman's election as mayor has attracted international attention. In addition to becoming Slovenia's first black mayor, he has also been described as being probably the first black person to become a mayor in the former Yugoslavia as well as in the former Eastern Bloc (although Slovenia as a part of Yugoslavia was only part of the Eastern Bloc briefly until the Tito–Stalin Split, which led to the eventual formation of the Non-Aligned Movement). He has also been widely compared to U.S. President Barack Obama, being dubbed by the media as the 'Obama of Piran'. Bossman has, however, insisted he has no political ambitions beyond the mayoralty, having stated that he intends to return to medicine upon leaving office.\n"}
{"id": "32550249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32550249", "title": "Pharmaceutical Affairs Act (Japan)", "text": "Pharmaceutical Affairs Act (Japan)\n\nThe of Japan is a law regulating the manufacturing, importation, and sale of drugs and medical devices. It was originally passed in 1960.\n\nThe July 2002 amendment to the law changed the regulatory structure for pharmaceuticals and medical devices, in an effort to align laws more closely with those in the European Union, Australia, Canada, and the United States. The amendment shifted the focus of regulation from the point of manufacturing to the point of sale, and adopted a risk-based classification system for products.\n\nThe June 2006 amendment to the law (Law No. 69 of 2006, with effective date of June 2009), represented the first change in the sales structure of OTC drugs in 46 years. The amended law permitted stores to sell certain over-the-counter drugs without having a pharmacist on staff, opening up the market to convenience stores, supermarkets, and other such stores. 7-Eleven was the first convenience store to take advantage of the amended law, while Aeon supermarkets also began selling OTC drugs at a 20% to 40% discount to competing drug stores (including Aeon-affiliated companies). The amendment was expected to put significant competitive pressure on drug stores. However, the law continued to ban internet sales of OTC drugs, which the Ministry of Health had previously justified by stating that drug sales should only be conducted in person by pharmacists or other qualified vendors who could explain the side effects of the drugs.\n\nOn May 24, 2013, the Government Cabinet approved a revision of Pharmaceutical Affairs Law to simplify the approval process for medical devices and regenerative medicine products, the safety of regenerative medicine using iPS cells (stem cells).\n\nAccording to the revised bill, medical equipment can be checked by the private organization including regenerative medicine products and validation of the post-marketing effectiveness.\n\n"}
{"id": "55829448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55829448", "title": "Science Moms", "text": "Science Moms\n\n<!--*****************************************************************\n"}
{"id": "23498666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23498666", "title": "Society for Mathematical Biology", "text": "Society for Mathematical Biology\n\nThe Society for Mathematical Biology (SMB) is an international association co-founded in 1972 in USA by Drs.George Karreman, Herbert Daniel Landahl and (initially chaired) by Anthony Bartholomay for the furtherance of joint scientific activities between Mathematics and Biology research communities. The society publishes the \"Bulletin of Mathematical Biology\" (), as well as the SMB annual newsletter.\n\nThe Society for Mathematical Biology emerged and grew from the earlier school of mathematical biophysics, initiated and supported by the Founder of Mathematical Biology, Nicolas Rashevsky. Thus, the roots of SMB go back to the publication in 1939 of the first international journal of mathematical biology, previously entitled \"The Bulletin of Mathematical Biophysics\"—which was founded by Nicolas Rashevsky, and which is currently published by SMB under the name of \"\"Bulletin of Mathematical Biology\". Professor Rashevsky also founded in 1969 the non-profit organization \"Mathematical Biology, Incorporated\"\"—the precursor of SMB. Another notable member of the University of Chicago school of mathematical biology was Anatol Rapoport whose major interests were in developing basic concepts in the related area of mathematical sociology, who cofounded the Society for General Systems Research and became a president of the latter society in 1965. Herbert D. Landahl was initially also a member of Rashevsky's school of mathematical biology, and became the second president of SMB in the 1980s; both Herbert Landahl and Robert Rosen from Rashevsky's research group were focused on dynamical systems approaches to complex systems biology, with the latter researcher becoming in 1980 the president of the Society for General Systems Research. \nIn addition to its research and news publications, the society supports education in: mathematical biology, mathematical biophysics, complex systems biology and theoretical biology through sponsorship of several topic-focused graduate and postdoctoral courses. To encourage and stimulate young researchers in this relatively new and rapidly developing field of mathematical biology, the society awards several prizes, as well as lists regularly new open international opportunities for researchers and students in this field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26684539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26684539", "title": "Sociology of leisure", "text": "Sociology of leisure\n\nSociology of leisure or leisure sociology is the study of how humans organize their free time. Leisure includes a broad array of activities, such as sport, tourism, and the playing of games. The sociology of leisure is closely tied to the sociology of work, as each explores a different side of the work-leisure relationship. More recent studies in the field move away from the work-leisure relationship and focus on the relation between leisure and culture.\n\nStudies of leisure have determined that observable patterns cannot be easily explained by socioeconomic variables such as income, occupation or education. The type of leisure activity is substantially influenced by the individual's situation (presence or lack of family, age, and other factors).\n\nSociology of leisure is a fairly recent subfield of sociology, compared to more traditional subfields such as sociology of work, sociology of the family, and sociology of education: it saw most of its development in the second half of the 20th century. Until then, leisure had often been seen as a relatively unimportant, minor feature of society. Leisure is now recognized as a major social institution, deserving of serious sociological inquiry, particularly in Western societies.\n\nAs John Wilson and others have noted, it is difficult to define leisure. Its definitions are numerous and often mutually contradictory, for example as a discrete portion of one's time or as a quality of experience irrespective of time. Joffre Dumazedier distinguished four distinct definitions of leisure, which begin broadly and gradually narrow in scope. The first and broadest defines leisure as a style of behavior that may occur even at work, the second defines it as any non-work activity; the third further excludes family and household obligations; and, finally, the narrowest defines leisure as activities dedicated to self-fulfillment. Dumazedier's four definitions are not exhaustive. Incompatible definitions and measures are seen as a major factor accounting for occasionally contradictory research findings.\n\nThere are some unresolved questions concerning the definition of work: in particular, whether unpaid endeavors, such as volunteering or studying, are work. Non-work time should not be equated with free time, as it comprises not only free time, dedicated to leisure, but also time dedicated to certain obligatory activities, such as housework. Dividing activities into free and dedicated time is not easy. For example, brushing one's teeth is neither work nor leisure; scholars differ in their classifications of activities such as eating a meal, shopping, repairing a car, attending a religious ceremony, or showering (various individuals may or may not classify such activities as leisure). The relation between work and leisure can also be unclear: research indicates that some individuals find skills that they have acquired at work useful to their hobbies (and vice versa), and some individuals have used leisure activities to advance their work careers. Sociologists also disagree as to whether political or spiritual activities should be included in studies of leisure. Further, among some occupational communities, such as police officers or miners, it is common for work colleagues to be off-time friends and to share similar, work-based leisure activities.\n\nApart from a definition of leisure, there are other questions of theoretical concern to the sociologist of leisure. For example, quantifying the results is difficult, as time-budget studies have noted that a given amount of time (for example, an hour) may have different values, depending on when it occurs—within a day, a week, or a year. Finally, as with many other fields of inquiry in the social sciences, the study of the sociology of leisure is hampered by the lack of reliable data for comparative longitudinal studies, as there was little to no standardized data-gathering on leisure throughout most of human history. The lack of longitudinal studies has been remedied in the last few decades by recurring national surveys such as the General Household Survey in the United Kingdom (ongoing since 1971). In addition to surveys, an increasing number of studies have been focusing on qualitative methods of research (interviews).\n\nOver time, emphasis in studies of leisure has shifted from the work-leisure relation, particularly in well-researched majorities, to study of minorities and the relation between leisure and culture. Marshall Gordon noted that there are two approaches in the study of leisure: formal and historical-theoretical. The formal approach focuses on empirical questions, such as the shifting of leisure patterns over an individual's life cycle, the relation between leisure and work, and specific forms of leisure (such as the sociology of sport). The historical-theoretical approach studies the relation between leisure and social change, often from structural-functionalist and neo-Marxist perspectives. Sheila Scraton provided a different analysis, comparing North American and British studies. The British approaches focus on input from pluralism, critical Marxism, and feminism; the American approaches concentrate on the social-psychological tradition.\n\nMany sociologists have assumed that a given type of leisure activity is most easily explained by socioeconomic variables such as income, occupation or education. This has yielded fewer results than expected; income is associated with total money spent on such activities, but otherwise only determines what type of activities are affordable. Occupation has a similar effect, because most occupations heavily influence a person's income (for example, membership in a prestigious occupation and \"country-club\" activities such as golf or sailing are significantly correlated—but so is membership in those occupations and high income, and those activities with high cost). Education is correlated with having a wide range of leisure activities, and with higher dedication to them. As Kelly noted, \"Predicting a person's leisure behavior on the basis of his socioeconomic position is all but impossible.\"\n\nOn the other hand, type of leisure activity is substantially influenced by the individual's immediate situation—whether he has a family, whether there are recreational facilities nearby, and age. Early family influences, particularly involving the more social leisure activities, can be profound. The type of leisure activity also depends on the individual's current place in the life cycle.\n\nSpecific findings in sociological studies of leisure are illustrated by John Robinson's late-1970s study of American leisure. Robinson found that Americans, on average, have four hours of leisure time each weekday, and more on weekends—six hours on Saturdays, almost eight on Sundays. Amount of leisure time diminishes with age, work, marriage, and children. However, the amount of free time does not significantly depend on an individual's wealth. People desire less free time if they are uncertain of their economic future, or if their job is their central interest. During the second half of the twentieth century, watching television became a major leisure activity, causing a substantial decrease in the time dedicated to other activities; in the early 1970s the average American had 4 hours of leisure per day, and spent 1.5 of them watching television. Shared leisure activities increase marital satisfaction.\n\n\na There were few sociological studies of leisure before the second half of the 20th century. One of the earliest and most celebrated was Thorstein Veblen's \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (1899).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1086236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1086236", "title": "Stereolithography", "text": "Stereolithography\n\nStereolithography (SLA or SL; also known as stereolithography apparatus, optical fabrication, photo-solidification, or resin printing) is a form of 3D printing technology used for creating models, prototypes, patterns, and production parts in a layer by layer fashion using photopolymerization, a process by which light causes chains of molecules to link, forming polymers. Those polymers then make up the body of a three-dimensional solid. Research in the area had been conducted during the 1970s, but the term was coined by Chuck Hull in 1984 when he applied for a patent on the process, which was granted in 1986. Stereolithography can be used to create things such as prototypes for products in development, medical models, and computer hardware, as well as in many other applications. While stereolithography is fast and can produce almost any design, it can be expensive.\n\nStereolithography or \"SLA\" printing is an early and widely used 3D printing technology. In the early 1980s, Japanese researcher Hideo Kodama first invented the modern layered approach to stereolithography by using ultraviolet light to cure photosensitive polymers. In 1984, just before Chuck Hull filed his own patent, Alain Le Mehaute, Olivier de Witte and Jean Claude André filed a patent for the stereolithography process. The French inventors' patent application was abandoned by the French General Electric Company (now Alcatel-Alsthom) and CILAS (The Laser Consortium). Le Mehaute believes that the abandonment reflects a problem with innovation in France.\n\nHowever, the term “stereolithography” was coined in 1984 by Chuck Hull when he filed his patent for the process. Chuck Hull patented stereolithography as a method of creating 3D objects by successively \"printing\" thin layers of an object using a medium curable by ultraviolet light, starting from the bottom layer to the top layer. Hull's patent described a concentrated beam of ultraviolet light focused onto the surface of a vat filled with a liquid photopolymer. The beam is focused onto the surface of the liquid photopolymer, creating each layer of the desired 3D object by means of crosslinking (generation of intermolecular bonds in polymers). It was invented with the intent of allowing engineers to create prototypes of their designs in a more time effective manner. After the patent was granted in 1986, Hull co-founded the world's first 3D printing company, 3D Systems, to commercialize it.\n\nStereolithography's success in the automotive industry allowed 3D printing to achieve industry status and the technology continues to find innovative uses in many fields of study. Attempts have been made to construct mathematical models of stereolithography processes and to design algorithms to determine whether a proposed object may be constructed using 3D printing.\n\nStereolithography is an additive manufacturing process that works by focusing an ultraviolet (UV) laser on to a vat of photopolymer resin. With the help of computer aided manufacturing or computer-aided design (CAM/CAD) software, the UV laser is used to draw a pre-programmed design or shape on to the surface of the photopolymer vat. Photopolymers are sensitive to ultraviolet light, so the resin is photochemically solidified and forms a single layer of the desired 3D object. Then, the build platform lowers one layer and a blade recoats the top of the tank with resin. This process is repeated for each layer of the design until the 3D object is complete. Completed parts must be washed with a solvent to clean wet resin off their surfaces.\n\nIt is also possible to print objects \"bottom up\" by using a vat with a transparent bottom and focusing the UV or deep-blue polymerization laser upward through the bottom of the vat. An inverted stereolithography machine starts a print by lowering the build platform to touch the bottom of the resin-filled vat, then moving upward the height of one layer. The UV laser then writes the bottom-most layer of the desired part through the transparent vat bottom. Then the vat is \"rocked\", flexing and peeling the bottom of the vat away from the hardened photopolymer; the hardened material detaches from the bottom of the vat and stays attached to the rising build platform, and new liquid photopolymer flows in from the edges of the partially built part. The UV laser then writes the second-from-bottom layer and repeats the process. An advantage of this bottom-up mode is that the build volume can be much bigger than the vat itself, and only enough photopolymer is needed to keep the bottom of the build vat continuously full of photopolymer. This approach is typical of desktop SLA printers, while the right-side-up approach is more common in industrial systems.\n\nStereolithography requires the use of supporting structures which attach to the elevator platform to prevent deflection due to gravity, resist lateral pressure from the resin-filled blade, or retain newly created sections during the \"vat rocking\" of bottom up printing. Supports are typically created automatically during the preparation of CAD models and can also be made manually. In either situation, the supports must be removed manually after printing.\n\nStereolithographic models have been used in medicine since the 1990s, for creating accurate 3D models of various anatomical regions of a patient, based on data from computer scans. Medical modelling involves first acquiring a CT, MRI, or other scan. This data consists of a series of cross sectional images of the human anatomy. In these images different tissues show up as different levels of grey. Selecting a range of grey values enables specific tissues to be isolated. A region of interest is then selected and all the pixels connected to the target point within that grey value range are selected. This enables a specific organ to be selected. This process is referred to as segmentation. The segmented data may then be translated into a format suitable for stereolithography. While stereolithography is normally accurate, the accuracy of a medical model depends on many factors, especially the operator performing the segmentation correctly. There are potential errors possible when making medical models using stereolithography but these can be avoided with practice and well trained operators.\n\nStereolithographic models are used as an aid to diagnosis, preoperative planning and implant design and manufacture. This might involve planning and rehearsing osteotomies, for example. Surgeons use models to help plan surgeries but prosthetists and technologists also use models as an aid to the design and manufacture of custom-fitting implants. For instance, medical models created through stereolithography can be used to help in the construction of Cranioplasty plates.\n\nStereolithography is often used for prototyping parts. For a relatively low price, Stereolithography can produce accurate prototypes, even of irregular shapes. Businesses can use those prototypes to assess the design of their product or as publicity for the final product.\n\nOne of the advantages of stereolithography is its speed; functional parts can be manufactured within a day. The length of time it takes to produce a single part depends upon the complexity of the design and the size. Printing time can last anywhere from hours to more than a day. Prototypes and designs made with stereolithography are strong enough to be machined and can also be used to make master patterns for injection molding or various metal casting processes.\nAlthough stereolithography can be used to produce virtually any synthetic design, it is often costly; common photopolymers can cost about per gallon and SLA machines can cost . Since 2012, however, public interest in 3D printing has inspired the design of several consumer SLA machines which can cost or less, such as the Form 2 by Formlabs or the Nobel 1.0 by XYZPrinting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16351555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16351555", "title": "Tobacco-specific nitrosamines", "text": "Tobacco-specific nitrosamines\n\nTobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs) comprise one of the most important groups of carcinogens in tobacco products, particularly cigarettes and fermented dipping snuff.\n\nThese nitrosamine carcinogens are formed from nicotine and related compounds by a nitrosation reaction that occurs during the curing and processing of tobacco. Essentially the plant's natural alkaloids combine with nitrate forming the nitrosamines.\n\nThey are called tobacco-specific nitrosamines because they are found only in tobacco products, and possibly in some other nicotine-containing products. The tobacco-specific nitrosamines are present in cigarette smoke and to a lesser degree in \"smokeless\" tobacco products such as dipping tobacco and chewing tobacco; additional information has shown that trace amounts of NNN and NNK have been detected in e-cigarettes. They are present in trace amounts in snus. They are among the most important carcinogens in cigarette smoke, along with combustion products and other carcinogens.\n\nAmong the tobacco-specific nitrosamines, nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK) and \"N\"-nitrosonornicotine (NNN) are the most carcinogenic. Others include \"N′\"-nitrosoanatabine (NAT) and \"N\"-nitrosoanabasine (NAB). NNK and its metabolite 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL) are potent systemic lung carcinogens in rats. Tumors of the nasal cavity, liver, and pancreas are also observed in NNK- or NNAL-treated rats. NNN is an effective esophageal carcinogen in the rat, and induces respiratory tract tumors in mice, hamsters, and mink. A mixture of NNK and NNN caused oral tumors when swabbed in the rat oral cavity. Thus, considerable evidence supports the role of tobacco-specific nitrosamines as important causative factors for cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, and oral cavity in people who use tobacco products.\n\nMetabolism and chemical binding to DNA (adduct formation) are critical in cancer induction by NNK and NNN. \n\nHuman metabolism of NNK and NNN varies widely from individual to individual, and current research is attempting to identify those individuals who are particularly sensitive to the carcinogenic effects of these compounds. Such individuals would be at higher risk for cancer when they use tobacco products or are exposed to secondhand smoke. Identification of high-risk individuals could lead to improved methods of prevention of tobacco-related cancer, and improved risk valuation for insurers.\n\n\n\"This article is based in part on public domain text taken from an article on the website of the National Cancer Institute, a U.S. Federal Government agency\"\n"}
{"id": "16950291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16950291", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in the Philippines", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in the Philippines\n\nWater supply is the process of providing water in a systematic way through installed pumps and pipe lines. Before water is provided to a specific area, it undegoes a process called sanitation to ensure that the quality of water received is safe for human consumption. The Philippines’ water supply system dates back to 1946 after the country achieved its independence. Government agencies, local institutions, non-government organizations, and other corporations are primarily in charge in the operation and administration of water supply and sanitation in the country.\n\nThe Philippines’ main sources of water are rivers, lakes, river basins, and groundwater reservoirs. The longest and largest river, Cagayan River, discharges approximately 53, 943 million cubic meters of water annually. Its groundwater reserves are 47, 895 million cubic meters replenished by rainfall and seepage from rivers and lakes. The lakes are utilized mainly for fish cultivation. The four major groundwater reservoirs are in Cagayan, Central Luzon, Agusan, and Cotabato. There are 438 major dams and 423 smaller dams. Dams and reservoirs are mainly used for: water storage, water supply, irrigation, regulation of flood, and hydropower.\n\nThe Manila metropolitan area water is mostly supplied by the Angat Dam, Ipo Dam, and La Mesa Dam (also known as Angat-Ipo-La Mesa water system). Some of the well known and larger dams in rural areas are: Ambuklao Dam, developed for flood control, irrigation, and hydroelectric power source of Baguio and some places in Luzon; and Magat Dam, a major source of irrigation water and hydroelectric power in Isabela.\n\n28.52 billion m³ of water was withdrawn from various sources in the Philippines in 2000: 74% (21.10 billion m³) was used for agricultural purposes, 9% (2.57 billion m³) for industrial processes, and 17% (4.85 billion m³) for domestic consumption.\n\nAgricultural water management in the Philippines primarily focuses on the subject of irrigation. The country has 3.126 million hectares of irrigable land, 50% (1.567 million hectares) of which already has irrigation facilities. 50% of irrigated areas are developed and operated by the government through the National Irrigation System (NIS). 36% is developed by the government and operated by irrigators’ associations through the Communal Irrigation System, while the remaining 14% is developed and operated by individual or small groups of farmers through a Private Irrigation System (PIS).\n\nThe use of water for industrial purposes include the \"utilization of water in factories, industrial plants and mines, and the use of water as an ingredient of a finished product.\" Industries that are found to be water-intensive are involved in the manufacturing of food and dairy, pulp and chemical products, and textile materials. These industries are usually found in the National Capital Region, CALABARZON, and Region III. In a study by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) in 1999, the intensive use of water in industry is critical in terms of the production of hazardous wastes. Thousands of tons solvent wastes, heavy metals, lubricants, and intractable wastes are improperly disposed of annually in Metro Manila.\n\nAccording to a study by David and Inocencio, the medium of water provision is dependent on the income class of a certain household. Higher income brackets usually rely on private waterworks as a source of water, while lower income brackets usually consume less by depending on vended water (sold by those who have access to private waterworks). Lower income households pay much higher water prices than higher income households because of their lack of access to water service providers.\n\nIn 2000, the average water production was 175 liters per day per capita (l/d/c). According to the National Water Resources Board (NWRB), the average consumption of water was 118 l/d/c in 2004. The highest consumption was recorded in the East Zone of Metro Manila with 232 l/d/c.\n\nAccording to a 2005 World Bank study, approximately 5,000 service providers exist in the Philippines. Most of them only provide water, while sanitation is still expected to be a private responsibility. The water infrastructure provided is classified into three levels. \nAccording to the Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation of UNICEF and WHO, access to an improved water source increased from 85% in 1990 to 92% in 2010.\n\nMost households in the Philippines are provided water by their Local Government Units (LGUs), either directly through a city or municipal engineering department or through community-based organizations (CBOs). CBOs involved in water supply include 200 cooperatives, 3,100 Barangay Water and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs) and 500 Rural Water Supply Associations (RWSAs). CBOs usually operate Level I or Level II water supply systems with support from the national government or non-governmental organizations (NGOs). In many cases, the CBOs later convert Level I and II facilities into Level III supply systems.Typically, all LGU-operated arrangements do not recover their full costs and rely heavily on local government subsidies.\n\nA water district is a utility that is legally and financially separate from the municipality. In urban areas outside of Metro Manila, water districts served around 15.3 million people from 861 municipalities in 2011. To form a water district, the local government needs confirmation from the Local Waterworks and Utilities Administration (LWUA), a specialized lending institution for provincial waterworks, from which it will receive technical assistance and financial support. The local government appoints the board members of the water districts. This system typically has better performance and higher cost recovery than water systems that are run directly by municipalities. The Philippine Association of Water Districts (PAWD), fosters the exchange of experiences between water districts and provides training to its members. In 2010, USAID and the ADB agreed to support PAWD in establishing a national Water Operators Partnerships (WOPs) program that promotes twinning partnerships among Water Districts.\n\nIn Metro Manila, water service has been carried out by two private concessionaires since 1997: The Manila Water Company in the East Zone, and Maynilad Water Services, Inc. in the West Zone. Although national government has supported private service providers since the 1990s, there are few arrangements outside of Metro Manila. Joint ventures exist in Tagbilaran City and in Subic Bay. These private water service providers provide Level III services together with water districts.\n\nA significant share of the population in urban areas receive services from small-scale independent providers. It was estimated that before privatization in the late 1990s, 30% of the population of Metro Manila depended on them, majority buying water in bulk from water providers to sell it on to individual users. There are also some cases of cooperation by concessionaires and independent providers. In August 2007, 250 small-scale providers formed the National Water and Sanitation Association of the Philippines (NAWASA) as a gathering avenue for small-scale water service providers.\nIn 2015, 92% of the total population had access to \"at least basic water\", or 94% in urban areas and 90% in rural areas. In 2015, there were still 8 million people without access to \"at least basic water\". The term \"at least basic water\" is a new term since 2016, and is related to the previously used \"improved water source\".\n\nIn earlier years, according to the Joint Monitoring Program (JMP) report on March 2012, 43% of the Philippines had access to Level III private water service providers in 2010. Access to an improved water source increased from 84% in 1990 to 92% in 2012. However, there is a wide inconsistency between the access to water of urban areas (61%) and rural areas (25%). Although overall spending remained low, the national government has begun increasing investments in sectors outside Metro Manila.\n\nIn 2015, 74% of the total population had access to \"improved\" sanitation, or 78% in urban areas and 71% in rural areas. In 2015, there were still 27 million without access to \"improved\" sanitation.\n\nIn 2005 the situation was as follows: Only 5% of the total population was connected to a sewer network.The vast majority used flush toilets connected to septic tanks. Since sludge treatment and disposal facilities were rare, most effluents were discharged without treatment. Within the entire country, septic tanks are the most common method of sewage treatment. In Metro Manila alone, about 75 local companies provide tank-desludging services.\n\nThe first Philippine constructed wetland, serving about 700 households, was completed in 2006 in a peri-urban area of Bayawan City which has been used to resettle families that lived along the coast in informal settlements and had no access to safe water supply and sanitation facilities. In March 2008, Manila Water announced that a wastewater treatment plant was to be constructed in Taguig.\n\n\nThe value added tax (VAT) is charged by the government and accounts to 12% of the sum of the items included in current charges before tax.\n\nThese are special miscellaneous charges such as connection fees, unscheduled desludging of septic tank service fees, etc.\n\nThis pertains to charges billed prior to the billing period. This should be settled immediately together with the current charges to avoid disconnection of water service.\n\nThe fragmented sector led to different tariff structures and levels according to the respective management model. The connection fees, which are charged in most of the cases, often impede new connections for poverty-stricken areas.\n\nLGU-operated systems In LGUs, tariff levels and structures vary widely. Since most connections are not metered, it is difficult to charge tariffs depending on consumption. Where LGUs provide Level I or II services, they usually charge no or very low tariffs, although connection fees are common. The costs of providing the service are usually met by local governments. The NWRB in its benchmarking project had about half of the average tariff of private operators and water districts.The cost of tariff in LGU-operated systems is, on average, lower than other management models. In order to introduce cost recovery tariffs and effective regulation, the NWRB issued a primer on tariff setting and regulation in March 2005. The document provides the basic guidelines of tariff setting. The manual helps to determine future revenue requirements and to set annual base tariffs based on estimated consumption levels.The process of tariff approval as well as the guidelines to prepare the required annual report are described in detail. Furthermore, the document gives advice on tariff structures and water rate adjustments.\n\nWater Districts. In water districts, tariffs increased notably since 1996. The tariff structure is similar to the model used in Metro Manila, with an average tariff for the first 10m³ and increasing tariffs for additional consumption. At the end of 2006, the national average tariff for 30 m³ was US$0.36 per m³, which is more than double of 1996. The NWRB found an average tariff of US$0.41 within a sample of 18 water districts in 2004, which is the highest average tariff of all management models. The average connection fee was US$55, somewhat lower than among private operators.\n\nMetro Manila In the capital region, an initial tariff is to be paid for the first 10 m³ consumed, with increasing blocks for additional consumption. Furthermore, consumers connected to sewerage pay an additional charge of 50% and all users must pay a 10% environmental surcharge. For new consumers, a connection fee is charged, which was US$134 in April 2007 in the East Zone According to the MWSS Regulatory Office, just before privatization, the average tariff per m³ in Metro Manila was US$0.26. After the concession contracts came into force in 1997, tariffs dropped to US$0.05 (East Zone) and US$0.12 (West Zone). In 2006, the average tariff rose to US$0.31 in the East Zone and US$0.43 in the West Zone (all figures converted into real 2006 prices). While the tariff was highest among private operators, the connection fee was higher within water districts.\n\nOthers.Users who rely on other sources such as private small-scale operators mostly pay more for water. In the capital region, it is a common practice to buy water from MWSS and resell. In this case, small-scale operators pay a higher tariff than the residential one and pass the higher cost on to the end-user.\n\nThe operation ratio (O) of a certain water service provider reflects its cost-recovery situation. It is computed by the following formula:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere O is the operation cost, C is the total annual cost, and R is the annual revenue. An operation ratio under 1 means that revenues cover the costs of operation and maintenance. In a study last 2004, only 5 out of 45 had an operation ratio of more than 1, reflecting a poor operation ratio among majority of the participating utilities. All the loss-making providers were operated directly by LGUs, and were mostly characterized by a high share of non-revenue water, poor service continuity, low tariffs, and low coverage within their respective service area. The five best-performing service providers consisted of four water districts and one private operator.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, investment in water supply and sanitation from 1983 to 2003 has been far below the required levels to maintain assets, to expand access and to improve service quality. Total investment has fluctuated at around ₱3-4 billion a year, while the cost of implementing the Clean Water Act of 2004 has been estimated at up to P35 billion a year.\n\nFrom the Philippines' independence in 1946 until 1955 most water supply systems were operated by local authorities. From 1955 to 1971, control of urban water supply was passed to the national government. In order to improve service delivery, the sector has been repeatedly subjected to extensive reforms which created numerous institutions and responsibilities. However, comprehensive water resources management was only introduced in 2004.\n\nThe Manila Waterworks Authority, founded in 1878, became part of the National Waterworks and Sewerage Authority (NAWASA) when it was founded in 1955.\n\n\n\nThe planning, preparation, and implementation of the privatization of the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) happened under the Ramos administration.\n\nAccording to the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP) of 1998 up to 2004, the Estrada administration's main objectives concerning water were to (i) create an independent regulatory agency, (ii) develop a pricing mechanism that considers cost recovery, (iii) strengthen the implementation of watershed rules, and (iv) encourage private participation in water resources administration.\n\nBecause of the rapid currency devaluation, MWSS' dollar-denominated debt service doubled. Consequently, tariffs continued to rise and targets concerning coverage and NRW were adjusted downward with the agreement of the regulatory agency. Maynilad went bankrupt in 2003 and was turned over to MWSS in 2005. On the other hand, Manila Water had begun to make profits by 1999 and performed well financially and in reducing NRW.\n\n\n\nGeneral policies concerning the water and sanitation sector are formulated by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA) in its MTPDP. Since the 1990s, private sector participation and decentralization are the main objectives of water policies. The MTPDP of 2004 up to 2010 aimed at extending the coverage of potable water to 92%–96% by 2010 through public and private investments, with priority given to 400 barangays with poor water supply coverage.\n\nThe Department of Public Works and Highways provides technical assistance in rural water supply systems. National standards for drinking water quality, as well as standards concerning sanitation and sewerage collection, are set by the Department of Health. The Philippine Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) is the lead ministry for implementing water sector legislation, whereas the Department of Finance takes the lead in financing water policies at the national level. The National Water Resources Board (NWRB) under the DENR is responsible for water resources management.\n\nThe responsibilities are defined by the 1976 National Water Code and the 2004 Clean Water Act, which consolidated laws on water supply and sanitation and water resources management.\n\nRegarded as Presidential Decree No. 1067, dated December 31, 1976, the 1976 National Water Code was an effort of then President Ferdinand E. Marcos that aimed to strengthen water legislations in the face of the increasing scarcity of water and its changing water patterns. The Water Code was an intended solution to revise and consolidate regulations made on the ownership, appropriation, utilization, exploitation, development, conservation and protection of water resources in the country. Founded on the principle that \"All waters belong to the State,\" the National Water Resources Council was then created and tasked to control and regulate the use and development of water resources in behalf of the government.\n\nRegulations were made through the acquisition of water permits, given to persons not limited to government-owned and controlled corporations, for water appropriation and usage. Specifications were included on the maximum amount of water diverted or withdrawn, the maximum rate of diversion or withdrawal and the times during the year when water may be diverted or withdrawn. Instances may also arise where water permits are revoked on cases of non-use, violation of the conditions imposed by the Council, unauthorized sale of water, pollution and public acts detrimental to public health and safety.\n\nIn declared flood control areas, rules and regulations are administered to prohibit and control activities that may damage and cause deterioration of the lakes and dikes, changes in the natural flow of the river and increases in flood losses or intensified floods. Watersheds, or areas of land adjacent to any surface water or overlying any groundwater, are to be declared as protected areas of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources. These efforts ensure the quality of water defined by a standard set by the National Pollution Council Commission according to the different uses of water. Except those functions under the Code that may fall under specific government agencies, the Council is given the power to make all necessary decisions and determinations provided for in the said Code. The Council may provide accompanying penalties consisting of fines not exceeding One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) and/or the suspensions or revocation of water permits or any rights given to use water as well as enforce its decisions with the assistance of local and national police agencies.\n\nRepublic Act 9275 provides for a comprehensive water quality management policy amidst economic growth. The policy provides for the consistent protection, preservation and revival of the quality of Philippine waters with frameworks patterned through the pursuit of sustainable development. Importantly provided for by this act are Water Quality Management Systems and Institutional Mechanisms.\n\nWater Quality Management Systems involve area designations by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR), national sewage and septage management programs and allocation of special funds to support and maintain water quality. Areas that have similar hydrogeological conditions, which affect the physiochemical, biological and bacteriological reactions and diffusions of pollutants in the water bodies, are declared as Water Quality Management Areas. The management area is governed by a DENR representative as chair and board members composed of representatives from local government units (LGUs), relevant national government agencies, registered non-governmental organizations, water utility sectors and the business sector. On the other hand, water bodies with specific pollutants that have exceeded the guidelines for water quality are identified as Non-attainment Areas. LGUs are tasked to prepare and implement contingency plans, such as relocations, for the protection of the health and welfare of the residents, while the government improves the affected quality of water within the potentially affected areas.\n\nFunds administered by the DENR, and other concerned agencies, are on special accounts in the National Treasury to be utilized in financing containment and clean-up operations in water pollution cases; restorations of ecosystems and rehabilitation of affected areas; research, enforcement and monitoring activities; technical assistance to implementing agencies; grants as rewards and incentives; and other disbursements made solely for the prevention, control of water pollution and administration of the management areas in the amounts authorized by the Department.\n\nWastewater charges are also established to provide strong economic inducement for polluters to modify their production or management processes or to invest in pollution control technology in order to reduce the amount of water pollutants generated in their discharge of wastewater into water bodies. Owners, or operators of facilities, that discharge regulated waste are then required to secure discharge permits.\n\nInstitutional Mechanisms emphasized the collaborative efforts made in the hopes of having cleaner and better quality water through the Lead Agency (DENR); the Roles of Local Government Units in sharing the responsibility of maintaining and improving water quality within their territorial jurisdictions; the Business and Industry Role in formulating incentives for the adoption of innovative equipment and processes that preserve and protect water bodies; and Linkage Mechanisms through partnerships with government agencies and departments such as the Philippine Coast Guard, DPWH, Department of Agriculture (DA), DOH, Department of Science and Technology (DOST), Department of Education (DepEd), Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and Department of the Interior and the Local Government (DILG).\n\nThe LWUA is a specialized lending institution that promotes and oversees the development of provincial waterworks. It is also entrusted with setting water quality and service standards for water districts. Furthermore, it provides technical assistance and is sometimes involved in the districts through board members.\n\nP.D. 198 (May 25, 1973), the Provincial Water Utilities Act of 1973 created LWUA and the water districts. The decree authorized the formation, on local option basis, of autonomous water districts to develop the local water supply systems and the establishment of a national-level agency to cater to the needs of these water districts. According to the LWUA website, to date, it has established 584 water districts covering about 691 cities and towns outside Metro Manila. It has completed a total of 1,431 water supply projects while extending P 17 billion in loans to the districts of which P11 million has been availed to the benefit of some 12 million Filipinos with improved water.\n\nThe National Water and Resources Board (NWRB) is the forefont government agency which handles the Philippines water sectors’ policies, regulations and quasi-judicial functions. It acts accordingly with the principles of the Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM) as it ensures the efficiency, conservation, utilization, development and protection of the state’s water supply. Its functions and responsibilities.\n\nExecutive Order No. 577 which was passed last January 12, 1980, aims to provide full coverage of water supply services in the country. In line with this, RWDC was established to bring and administer water supply in areas with less than 20,000 as population. RWDC works together with LWUA in determining areas under their jurisdiction.\n\nConcerning local government-managed systems, the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG) defines and enforces quality and performance standards. However, in both cases, local governments retain the responsibilities for planning, financing, and regulating water supply.\n\nThe Philippine Center for Water and Sanitation (PCWS) provides technical assistance to local governments, communities, and non-profits on low-cost water supply and sanitation options. It also engages in action research with households. It leads the Philippines water sanitation and health (WASH) coalition of non-profit organizations and local governments. It was created in 1990 under the name of International Training Network (ITN) and adopted its current name in 1998.\n\nOutside the privatized services in Metro Manila, one source of finance for water supply is government grants channeled through the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) and the Municipal Development Funds Office (MDFO). But these are far from sufficient to meet investment needs, which is why loan financing is necessary. Some LGUs obtain loans from public banks such as the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP), and also from corporations in other countries, such as the World Bank, and JICA from Japan.(see below).\n\nExternal development agencies that work on water supply and sanitation in the Philippines include the ADB, GTZ, JICA, USAID and the World Bank\n\nThe Asian Development Bank (ADB) has assisted the government in increasing sanitized water supply to different sectors in the Philippines. Through the MWSS New Water Source Development Project, approved in 2003 and ended in October 2008, ADB has contributed a total of US$3.26 million, whereas MWSS provided US$1.71 million. The joint-project sought to develop up to 3 water source projects for Metro Manila and to improve the financial management as well as the accounting and fiscal control systems of MWSS. In 2008 as well, studies for two water source projects were completed emphasizing environmental and social impacts amidst water quality improvements.\n\nThe following report shows information about past performances which can be utilized in assessing present and future water supply and sanitation efforts in the Philippines. In 2013, ADB made preparations for loans for financing: the Water District Development Sector Project, the Urban Water and Sanitation Sector Project, the Angat Water Transmission Improvement Project, and future technical assistances and other lending activities to be discussed with specific Government agencies involved.\n\n<br>In 2013, the ADB made preparations for loans for financing: the Water District Development Sector Project, the Urban Water and Sanitation Sector Project, the Angat Water Transmission Improvement Project, and future technical assistance and other lending activities to be discussed with specific Government agencies involved.\n\nADB was also able to release a report on: the assessments of current conditions and constraints to developing water supply and sanitation in the country, strategies to be implemented to counter and solve these constraints, and road maps and plans on a sustainable sanitation reality for all. The Philippine Sustainable Sanitation Roadmap and Plan (PSSR), included in the report, served as a guide for water sanitation efforts as it presented the vision, goals, outcomes, outputs, activities and inputs needed to achieve an improved water quality nationwide. Approved by the subcommittee on Water Resources in 2010, the Department of Health (DOH) has agreed to spearhead the agenda by preparing a national sustainable sanitation plan based on the PSSR. The DILG has also aligned its water and sanitation strategy with the requirements of the PSSR.\n\nThe German Corporation for International Cooperation (GTZ, now GIZ) supported the sector through the rural water supply and sanitation program, designed to improve the living conditions of the poor in selected rural areas of the country. The program sought to overcome the institutional confusion and to strengthen governmental organizations at the national, provincial, and municipal levels. The main program partner was the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG). In addition, the decentralization plan of the National Water Resources Board was supported. The program, which ran from 2006 to 2009, helped to introduce low-cost options for sanitation, such as urine-diverting dry toilets and the first Philippine constructed wetland, treating wastewater from about 700 households in Bayawan.\n\nThe World Bank supports the Philippine water supply and sanitation sector through various projects often in collaboration with the government and the Land Bank of the Philippines.\n\nIn 2007, the World Bank approved an investment loan of US$5 million. The objectives of the project were to assist the Philippine government in reforming institutions in order to attract private investment in the wastewater sector, to improve the coordination of institutions responsible for preventing water pollution, and to promote innovative wastewater treatment techniques. The project, which ran from 2007 to 2012, provided technical assistance as well as support for institutional coordination and private sector involvement.\n\nThe project followed the Manila Second Sewerage Project, which was carried out from 1996 to 2005. After the privatization of MWSS, it was restructured in order to adapt it to the new institutional framework. The objectives were to (i) reduce the pollution of waterways in Metro Manila and its surrounding bays; (ii) reduce the health risks caused by human exposure to sewage in Metro Manila; and (iii) establish a gradual low-cost improvement of sewerage services in Metro Manila. From 1997 to 2005, the number of people with sewer connections increased from 721,000 to 1,101,000 and the population with regularly desludged septic tanks rose from only 1,600 to 288,000. The total cost of the project was US$48.06 million.\n\nThis project aimed to reach approximately 40 LGU-operated water systems, which were given technical assistance and financial support. The four components of the project were to: (i) finance civil works, equipment, and supervision for improved water supply systems in LGUs, including private sector participation where feasible; (ii) finance improved sanitation infrastructure; (iii) provide investment and assistance in micro-drainage infrastructure; and (iv) provide funds for the hiring of a construction supervision consultant and specialized consultants. The World Bank decided to contribute through a US$30 million loan to the project, while the remaining US$5.2 million are financed by local institutions. The project began in 2001 and ended in 2008.\n\nThe World Bank supports private sector participation through Design-Build-Lease contracts and Long-Term Operation and Maintenance contracts between LGUs and private operators. Therefore, the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) channel financing from the World Bank to LGUs, which engage private operators. Under the Design-Build-Lease contracts, valid for 15 years and renewable for an additional 15 years, a local private operator prepares, builds, and operates a new water supply system. A World Bank loan channeled through the DBP finances 90% of the construction cost, and the remainder is contributed through the LGU. The water tariff must cover expenses for operation and maintenance, as well as a lease fee and a return for the private operator.\n\nLong-Term Operation and Maintenance contracts are used in LGUs which recruit a private company to construct a new water supply system and later engage water associations or user cooperatives to operate the system under the contracts, which are awarded for 15 years with the possibility of renewal for another 15 years. Similar to the Design-Build-Operate contracts, 90% of the construction cost of the water system is financed with a World Bank loan channeled through the LBP. The water user groups are required to work under commercial rules. They have full administrative, accounting and financial autonomy.\n\nLast 2012, the World Bank was able to approve a budget of $275 Million for a project aimed at improving wastewater collection and treatment practices in several catchment areas of Metro Manila and help improve Manila Bay’s water quality. Entitled the Metro Manila Wastewater Management Program (MWMP), the project supports investments from the Manila Water Company, Inc (MWCI) and Maynilad Water Services, Inc in increasing collection and wastewater treatment primarily from households and establishments in the area. The project is divided into 2 components as MWCI takes charge of the east zone and Maynilad the west zone, of the metropolitan.\n\nWith a budget of $193.4 Million, investments by Maynilad include: (a) a sewage treatment plant, and the necessary sewage lines, covering North and South Pasig; and (b) the carrying out of other wastewater management investment sub-projects agreed upon by the government, Land Bank of the Philippines, World Bank and MWCI. Maynilad, with a budget of $178.3 Million, has its investments: (a) in sewage treatment plants and associated wastewater conveyance systems in Quezon City, Pasay, Alabang, Muntinlupa, Valenzuela; and (b) a septage treatment plant in the southern part of Metro Manila.\n\nWith about 2 million cubic meters of wastewater generated daily, and only 17% of this getting treated before disposal to water bodies around the metro, water pollution has destroyed most of Manila Bay and the nearby Laguna de Bay. Manila Water and Maynilad have both conceptualized a 25-year program that ensures 100% wastewater collection and treatment for Metro Manila. With the MWMP, their efforts would be supported and would aid in not just improving the current state of the surrounding environment but also contribute to a boost in recreational and tourism opportunities.\n\nThe Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), along with the international community striving to achieve the targets of United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals (MDG), has been campaigning to make a significant reduction in the number of people who still lack access to safe drinking water. Reliable water resources management, improvement of access to water supply in urban areas, reduction of non-revenue water (NRW), improvement of water/energy use, sustainable rural water supply, and promotion of improved sanitation in developing countries are the main issues that JICA prioritizes. In 2008, through the Development Bank of the Philippines, about $200 million was loaned to the Philippines to fund local governments and domestic private-sector companies for the development of water supply and sewerage facilities. Despite the establishment of funding, financing will only be granted to water utilities if the business management improves, hence JICA actively assists the water supply utilities’ capacity development through practical cooperation with financial aid. JICA not only works to improve access to safe drinking water in urban areas of developing countries, but also aids water facilities with business planning and management.\n\nWater quality usually does not meet the standards set by the national government, especially in urban areas. As a result, waterborne diseases remain to be a severe public health concern in the country. About 4,200 people die each year due to contaminated drinking water.\n\nNon-revenue water (NRW) is defined as the difference between the amount of water put into the distribution system and the amount of water billed to consumers. It is usually used as an indicator for water utility performance. High levels of non-revenue water usually indicate low quality water utility. It has three components: \"physical losses\", which consist of leakage from the system caused by poor operations and maintenance, the lack of active leakage control, and poor quality of underground assets; \"commercial losses\" caused by under-registration of water meters, errors in data handling, and theft, and \"unbilled authorized consumption\" which includes water used by a specific utility for operational purposes (e.g. firefighting and specific consumer groups).\n\nNon-revenue water decreased in the East Zone of Metro Manila since privatization. In 1996, Manila had an NRW of 61%, while capital cities from other Asian countries ranged from having 35–38%. In 2002, NRW dropped to 53% in the East Zone. On the other hand, non-revenue water in the West Zone increased as the primary waterwork utility encountered severe financial problems. According to Manila Water, one of the private concessionaires, the share of NRW continued to fall until the end of 2010 where it reached 11%.\n\nAccording to the National Water Resources Board (NWRB), the average share of NRW among participating service providers was 27.5% in 2004. The particularly high NRW of Manila's West Zone was confirmed to have a record with 68%. Generally, the smaller utilities performed better concerning NRW than the larger ones. However, many NRW data are based on estimates, given the fact that only 15 of the 45 service providers had 100% production and consumption metering coverage.\n\nThe number of staff was reduced at the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System (MWSS) after privatization. On average, 10 employees were responsible for 1,000 connections in 1996. Fast forward to 2002, only about 4 employees were left, reflecting a decreases of around 58%. According to LWUA, only about 7 employees per 1,000 connections worked in water districts in 2002. In contrast to water districts, LGUs have an average of 21 employees per 1,000 connections in 2002. However, small LGUs still suffer from their low number of total connections.\n\nThe NWRB Philippines Towns Water Utilities 2004 Data Book found, on average, 7 employees per 1,000 connections in 2004. Private utilities, on average, performed best and systems which were directly managed by LGUs performed worst. Not surprisingly, providers with more than 10,000 connections need significantly fewer employees per connection than those with fewer than 10,000 connections.\n\nThe NWRB Philippines Towns Water Utilities 2004 Data Book found, on average, 7 employees per 1,000 connections in 2004. Private utilities on average performed best and systems which were directly managed by LGUs performed worst. Not surprisingly, providers with more than 10,000 connections need significantly fewer employees per connection than those with fewer than 10,000 connections.\n\nOne third of Philippine river systems are considered suitable for public water supply. It is estimated that in 2025, water availability will be marginal in most major cities and in 8 of the 19 major river basins. Besides severe health concerns, water pollution also leads to problems in the Fishing and Tourism industries. The national government recognized the problem and since 2004, has sought to introduce sustainable water resources development management.\n\nWith rapid increase in population, urbanization, and industrialization, the quality of Philippine waters is reduced especially in densely populated areas and regions of industrial and agricultural activities. According to data from the DENR and PEM, domestic wastewater discharges, agricultural wastewater, and industrial wastewater are the three main sources of water pollution. These are also known as \"point sources\" that emanate toxic substances into \"non-point sources\" or certain bodies of water. Domestic wastewater consists of sewage containing organic waste, solids, and coliforms produced by domestic activities such as laundry, bathing, cooking, and other kitchen activities. Agricultural wastewater, the major source of pollution in rural areas, contain pollutants resulting from agricultural and livestock activities like the maintenance of piggeries which usually do not have proper wastewater treatment facilities. Different industries also contribute largely to the water pollution. Industrial activities such as manufacturing of food, textile, paper, and slaughterhouses emit large amounts of organic waste.\n\nEl Niño and Global Warming\n\nEl Niño, a weather phenomenon occurring about every two to seven years when warm water in the western tropical Pacific Ocean shifts Eastward, causing ocean temperatures to be warm, last developed in the country in late 2014. For the past several decades, it has been observed that its occurrence has increased due to climate change as a result of global warming. Its negative impacts may either be heavy rainfall or drought. El Niño greatly impacts the power supply, water supply, and agricultural sectors of the country. The reduced rainfall leading to drought causes shortage in water supply leading to the rationing of water in some situations, shortage in hydropower supply, and food supply.\nThe supply of water from most freshwater bodies usually come from watersheds --- patches of forest cover that absorb rainwater and channel it into streams, rivers, and eventually dams where many human communities (especially Metro Manila) source their freshwater. Despite the role of the forest in the replenishment and maintenance of both ground and surface water, the Philippines is considered to be one of the most severely deforested countries in the tropics as it lost more than 97% of its original forest cover in the last 50 years.\n\nOne of the areas in most risk of saltwater intrusion is Metro Manila. Since the late 1960s, saline water intrusion has been evident along the coastal areas of Metro Manila, stretching from Las Pinas to Malabon. The shallow water table aquifer is in direct contact with the sea in these coastal areas. The over-pumping of groundwater results to cones of depression which increase the risk of saltwater intrusion. According to a joint study by MWSS and JICA in 1991, most groundwater samples from Metro Manila’s coastal areas were salinized. However, compared to the early 1980s, saline intrusion was found to have improved conditions because of the conversion of water source from groundwater to surface water upon the completion of the Manila Water Supply Project II in 1987. Aside from excessive withdrawal of groundwater, seepage of brackish water along the Pasig River is another cause of saltwater intrusion because of seawater movement during tides.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43717620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43717620", "title": "Wheelmap.org", "text": "Wheelmap.org\n\nWheelmap.org is an online, worldwide map for finding and marking wheelchair accessible places, developed by the German nonprofit organisation Sozialhelden e.V. Anyone can find and add public places to the map and rate them according to a simple traffic light system. The map, which is based on OpenStreetMap, was created in 2010 by a team around social entrepreneur Raul Krauthausen to help people who use wheelchairs or wheeled walkers to plan their days more easily. Parents pushing a baby carriage can also benefit from the Wheelmap information. Currently almost 600,000 public places worldwide can be found on the map. About 300 new places are added on a daily basis. Wheelmap is available on the website and as an app for iOS, Android and Windows Phone.\n\nAnyone can mark Points of Interest (bus stations, restaurants, cinemas, museums, banks, government offices, etc.).[3] according to their wheelchair accessibility on Wheelmap. A simple traffic light system is used to rate the wheelchair accessibility of a place: The markings are inserted by using the simple traffic light system:\nPlaces that have not yet been rated on their wheelchair accessibility are marked gray. They can be marked quickly and easily by anyone, without prior registration. Registered users can add photos or comments with further details about the wheelchair accessibility of a place Registered users can add images to a location and write a comment with further details about the wheelchair accessibility of the place.\n\n\"Wheelmap.org\" focuses on the relevant accessibility information and is not limited to wheelchair specific locations, such as therapy centers or toilets. Instead, wheelchair users should be include in everyday life, focusing on public places of daily life including cafes, clubs, theaters, and basic public services, including public transportation, government offices and banks. Similar to Wikipedia, the user enters the information such that everyone helps to grow this tool from the bottom up.\n\n\nIn the fall of 2011 \"Wheelmap.org\" was the subject of commercials of Google Inc. for the Chrome browser, \nwhich was broadcast on German television.\n\n"}
