{"id": "56143468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56143468", "title": "Air pollution forecasting", "text": "Air pollution forecasting\n\nAir pollution forecasting is the application of science and technology to predict the composition of the atmosphere for a given location and time.\n\nThe forecast may give the pollutants concentration or the air quality index.\n\nCountries and cities are given forecasts by organizations like the EPA, as well as private companies like AirVisual, Aerostate, BreezoMeter and PlumeLabs that give air pollution forecast.\n\n\nThe forecast takes into account local emission sources (like nearby traffic or industry) and remote sources (e.g. dust that is carried by air parcels and follows the wind direction).\n\n"}
{"id": "305396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305396", "title": "Aphanite", "text": "Aphanite\n\nAphanite, or aphanitic as an adjective (from the Greek αφανης, \"invisible\"), is a name given to certain igneous rocks that are so fine-grained that their component mineral crystals are not detectable by the unaided eye (as opposed to phaneritic igneous rocks, where the minerals are visible to the unaided eye). This geological texture results from rapid cooling in volcanic or hypabyssal (shallow subsurface) environments. As a rule, the texture of these rocks is not the same as that of volcanic glass (e.g., obsidian), with volcanic glass being non-crystalline (amorphous), and having a glass-like appearance.\n\nAphanites are commonly porphyritic, having large crystals embedded in the fine groundmass or matrix. The large inclusions are called phenocrysts.\n\nThey consist essentially of very fine-grained minerals, such as plagioclase feldspar, with hornblende or augite, and may contain also biotite, quartz, and orthoclase.\n\n"}
{"id": "26240231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26240231", "title": "Apparent polar wander", "text": "Apparent polar wander\n\nApparent polar wander (APW) is the perceived movement of the Earth's paleo-magnetic poles relative to a continent while regarding the continent being studied as fixed in position. It is frequently displayed on the present latitude-longitude map as a path connecting the locations of geomagnetic poles, inferred at distinct times using paleomagnetic techniques.\n\nIn reality, the relative polar movement can be either polar wandering or continental drift (or a combination of both). Data from around the globe are needed in order to isolate or distinguish between the two. Nevertheless, the magnetic poles rarely stray far from the geographic poles of the planet. Therefore, the concept of apparent polar wander is very useful in plate tectonics, since it can retrace the relative motion of continents, as well as the formation and break-up of supercontinents.\n\nIt has been known for a long time that the geomagnetic field varies through time, and records of its direction and magnitude have been kept in different locations since the 1800s. The technique of drawing apparent polar wander was first developed by Creer et al. (1954), and was a major step taken towards the acceptance of the plate tectonics theory. Since then many discoveries have been made in that field, and apparent polar wander has become better understood with the evolution of the theory and of the Geocentric Axial Dipole (GAD) model. There are over 10,000 paleomagnetic poles recorded in the database today.\n\nMuch research in paleomagnetism is aimed at finding paleomagnetic poles for different continents and at different epochs, in order to assemble them in APWP tracks. Paleomagnetic poles have the advantage that they should have the same value at each observing locality on the basis of the Geocentric axial dipole (GAD) model. Thus they can be used to compare paleomagnetic results from widely separated localities.\n\nFossil magnetization in rocks is key to locate a paleomagnetic pole. At the time of formation, rocks conserve the direction of the magnetic field. The inclination(Im) and declination vectors(Dm) are preserved and therefore the paleolatitude(λp) and paleolongitude(φp) of the pole can be found.\n\nThe reason the characteristics of the field are conserved comes from the concept of blocking temperature (also known as closure temperature in geochronology). This temperature is where the system becomes blocked against thermal agitation at lower temperatures. Therefore, some minerals exhibit remnant magnetization. One problem that arises in the determination of remnant (or fossil) magnetization is that if the temperature rises above this point, the magnetic history is destroyed. However, in theory it should be possible to relate the magnetic blocking temperature to the isotopic closure temperature, such that it could be checked whether or not a sample can be used.\n\nOften, APWP tracks represent the motion of a plate relative to a fixed point (paleomagnetic pole). The usual pattern observed consists of long, gently curved segments linked by short, sharply curved segments. Those respectively correspond to time intervals of constant plate motion versus changing plate motion.\n\nThese segments are described by the rotation about a pivot point, which is called the paleomagnetic Euler pole (\"Euler\" is pronounced like \"oiler\") (see Euler's rotation theorem). The relative motion between two plates is also described by the rotation about an Euler Pole. In recent times it is easier to determine finite rotations as transforms and ridges are respectively perpendicular and parallel to the direction of a finite rotation pole. In this way reconstructions of the last 200 Ma rely mostly on marine geophysical data. Older than that we run out of seafloor, so other ways have to be used, like paleomagnetic poles and fit of geological observations.\n\nDetermining paleomagnetic poles is a complicated process since with increasing time more uncertainties come into play. Reliability of poles has been subject to debate for many years. Paleomagnetic poles are usually a group mean determined from different samples, in order to average out the secular variation over time to respect GAD hypothesis. \nThe treatment of data is a big step and involves a lot of statistical calculations to obtain a valid paleomagnetic pole.\n\nWhen applied to continents, it is possible to define finite rotation with paleomagnetic poles; that is, describe the certain motion of a continent based on records of its paleomagnetic poles. However, there are two major problems for constraining finite rotation:\n\n• Because of random magnetic reversals, the north magnetic pole at a given time could either be in the North or South hemisphere. Without context, it is impossible to know which is the north-seeking direction of the magnetic vectors. Again, in recent times there is often a better context, but after 300Ma it becomes increasingly difficult.\n\n• The paleolongitude cannot be constrained from the pole alone. This is why data from different locations are needed, as it reduces the degrees of freedom. With the apparent polar wander path of high fidelity, however, paleolongitude could be constrained by the paleomagnetic Euler rotations (rotation poles and angles) estimated from the circle modelling to the APWP tracks.\n\nThe goal of much paleomagnetic research is to assemble poles in APWPs for the different continental fragments, which is the first step in reconstructing the paleogeography. The two main issues in this construction are\n\nThe first issue has been addressed with general selection criteria. The common ones have been described by Van der Voo (1990; V90). These include the uncertainty on ages, the number of samples, positive field tests to constrain the age of magnetization relative to the age of the rock (e.g. fold test), pole positions etc. Besse and Courtillot (2002; BC02) brought some modifications to these criteria for particular applications. \nOnce poles are selected and attributed a certain degree of reliability, the task of curve fitting remains, in order to define apparent polar wander paths. Different approaches have been used for this process: Discrete windows, Key poles, Moving windows, splines, Paleomagnetic Euler pole (PEP) analysis, Master path, inclination-only data. These differ in the way poles are separated, the relative importance attributed to some poles and the general shape of resulting curves.\n"}
{"id": "21434182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21434182", "title": "Astris", "text": "Astris\n\nIn Greek mythology, Astris (or Asteria) was, in Nonnus's \"Dionysiaca\", one of the Heliades, daughters of Helios, either by the Oceanid Clymene or the Oceanid Ceto. She married the river god Hydaspes (the modern Jhelum River) and became mother of Deriades, king in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "57487845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57487845", "title": "Bloom (phase)", "text": "Bloom (phase)\n\nIn polymer chemistry, materials science, and food science, bloom refers to the migration of one component of a solid mixture to the surface of an article. The process is an example of phase separation or phase aggregation. \n\nBlooming is commonly encountered in polymer additives such as stabilizers. Many polymers are essentially pure hydrocarbons whereas additives are often significantly more polar, this results their being forced out via hydrophobic forces. The blooming of additives may be desirable or undesirable. For example, the migration of antioxidants to the polymer surface may help it resist degradation. Conversely, the leaching of additives from packaging materials into foods, or the blooming of additives in biomedical devices is often of high concern. Regulations exist in many counties that require both the levels of blooming and the materials involved to be of a safe level, for example the international symbol for materials approved for food contact is a wine glass and a fork symbol.\n\nSulfur bloom refers to the migration of sulfur, usually as S, to the surface of a rubber article either before or after vulcanization. Blooming is undesirable in rubber processing. When sulfur bloom appears before vulcanization, the rubber is deprived of the crosslinking agent. Sulfur bloom after vulcanization indicates incomplete vulcanization. In rubber processing, ingredients other than sulfur can \"bloom\", including antioxidants, fatty acids, and accelerators.\n\nChocolate bloom refers two types of whitish coating that can appear on the surface of chocolate: fat bloom, caused by changes in the fat crystals in the chocolate; and sugar bloom, due to crystals formed by the action of moisture on the sugar. Chocolate that has \"bloomed\" remains edible but may have an unappetizing appearance and texture.\n\n"}
{"id": "6284493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6284493", "title": "Bur", "text": "Bur\n\nA bur (also spelled burr) is a seed or dry fruit or infructescence that has hooks or teeth.\n\nSome other forms of diaspores, such as the stems of certain species of cactus also are covered with thorns and may function as burs.\n\nBur-bearing plants such as \"Xanthium\" species are often single-stemmed when growing in dense groups, but branch and spread when growing singly.\n\nBurs catch on the fur of passing animals or the clothing of people. The hooks or teeth generally cause irritation, and some species commonly cause gross injury to animals, or expensive damage to clothing or to vehicle tires.\n\nBurs serve the plants that bear them in two main ways. \n\nMost epizoochorous burs attach to hair on the body or legs of the host animal, but a special class of epizoochorous bur is known as the trample-bur (or trample-burr). Several species of \"Tribulus\", \"Harpagophytum\", and \"Grielum\" produce fruit in the form of trample-burs. As the name suggests, they attach themselves to the animal when trampled. They may hook onto the legs of animals as the large hooks of \"Harpagophytum\" do, sometimes causing serious injury, but sometimes hooking onto the leg of say, an ostrich, apparently without causing discomfort. It also might penetrate a hoof or foot pad or the tires of a vehicle, only to be shed after being carried for a considerable time and distance; most \"Tribulus\" and \"Grielum\" species are specialised for such attachment, variously being flat, but with upward-directed spikes as in say, \"Grielum humifusum\", or shaped like a caltrop as in some species of \"Tribulus\" that have achieved the status of cosmopolitan weeds by sticking to the tires of aircraft.\n\nBurs are best known as sources of irritation, injury to livestock, damage to clothing, punctures to tires, and clogging equipment such as agricultural harvesting machinery.\n\nSome have however been used for such purposes as fabric fulling, for which the fuller's teasel is a traditional resource.\n\nThe bur of burdock was the inspiration for hook and loop fastener, also known as Velcro.\n\nCommon bur-bearing plants include:\n"}
{"id": "3025914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025914", "title": "Cenomanian", "text": "Cenomanian\n\nThe Cenomanian is, in the ICS' geological timescale the oldest or earliest age of the Late Cretaceous epoch or the lowest stage of the Upper Cretaceous series. An age is a unit of geochronology: it is a unit of time; the stage is a unit in the stratigraphic column deposited during the corresponding age. Both age and stage bear the same name.\n\nAs a unit of geologic time measure, the Cenomanian age spans the time between 100.5 ± 0.9 Ma and 93.9 ± 0.8 Ma (million years ago). In the geologic timescale it is preceded by the Albian and is followed by the Turonian. The Upper Cenomanian starts approximately at 95 M.a.\n\nThe Cenomanian is coeval with the Woodbinian of the regional timescale of the Gulf of Mexico and the early part of the Eaglefordian of the regional timescale of the East Coast of the United States.\n\nAt the end of the Cenomanian an anoxic event took place, called the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary event or the \"Bonarelli Event\", that is associated with a minor extinction event for marine species.\n\nThe Cenomanian was introduced in scientific literature by French palaeontologist Alcide d'Orbigny in 1847. Its name comes from the New Latin name of the French city of Le Mans (département Sarthe), \"Cenomanum\".\n\nThe base of the Cenomanian stage (which is also the base of the Upper Cretaceous series) is placed at the first appearance of foram species \"Rotalipora globotruncanoides\" in the stratigraphic record. An official reference profile for the base of the Cenomanian (a GSSP) is located in an outcrop at the western flank of Mont Risou, near the village of Rosans in the French Alps (département Hautes-Alpes, coordinates: 44°23'33\"N, 5°30'43\"E). The base is, in the reference profile, located 36 meters below the top of the Marnes Bleues Formation.\n\nThe top of the Cenomanian (the base of the Turonian) is at the first appearance of ammonite species \"Watinoceras devonense\".\n\nImportant index fossils for the Cenomanian are the ammonites \"Calycoceras naviculare\", \"Acanthoceras rhotomagense\" and \"Mantelliceras mantelli\".\n\nThe late Cenomanian represents the highest mean sea-level observed in the Phanerozoic eon, the past six hundred million years (approximately one hundred and fifty meters above present day sea-levels). A corollary is that the highlands were at all time lows, so the landscape on Earth was one of warm broad shallow seas inundating low-lying land areas on the precursors to today's continents. What few lands rose above the waves were made of old mountains and hills, upland plateaus, all much weathered. Tectonic mountain building was minimal and most continents were isolated by large stretches of water. Without highlands to brake winds, the climate would have been windy and waves large, adding to the weathering and fast rate of sediment deposition.\n\nDuring the Cenomanian was the origin of the crown-group Crocodylia, the true-crocodiles and snakes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7770", "title": "Christmas tree", "text": "Christmas tree\n\nA Christmas tree is a decorated tree, usually an evergreen conifer such as spruce, pine, or fir or an artificial tree of similar appearance, associated with the celebration of Christmas. The modern Christmas tree was developed in medieval Livonia (present-day Estonia and Latvia) and early modern Germany, where Protestant Germans brought decorated trees into their homes. It acquired popularity beyond the Lutheran areas of Germany and the Baltic countries during the second half of the 19th century, at first among the upper classes.\n\nThe tree was traditionally decorated with \"roses made of colored paper, apples, wafers, tinsel, [and] sweetmeats\". In the 18th century, it began to be illuminated by candles, which were ultimately replaced by Christmas lights after the advent of electrification. Today, there is a wide variety of traditional ornaments, such as garlands, baubles, tinsel, and candy canes. An angel or star might be placed at the top of the tree to represent the Angel Gabriel or the Star of Bethlehem, respectively, from the Nativity. Edible items such as gingerbread, chocolate and other sweets are also popular and are tied to or hung from the tree's branches with ribbons.\n\nIn the Western Christian tradition, Christmas trees are variously erected on days such as the first day of Advent or even as late as Christmas Eve depending on the country; customs of the same faith hold that the two traditional days when Christmas decorations, such as the Christmas tree, are removed are Twelfth Night and, if they are not taken down on that day, Candlemas, the latter of which ends the Christmas-Epiphany season in some denominations.\n\nThe Christmas tree is sometimes compared with the \"Yule-tree\", especially in discussions of its folkloric origins.\n\nThe relevance of ancient pre-Christian customs to the 16th-century German initiation of the Christmas tree custom is disputed. Resistance to the custom was often because of its supposed Lutheran origins.\n\nOther sources have offered a connection between the first documented Christmas trees in Alsace around 1600 and pre-Christian traditions. For example, according to the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", \"The use of evergreen trees, wreaths, and garlands to symbolize eternal life was a custom of the ancient Egyptians, Chinese, and Hebrews. Tree worship was common among the pagan Europeans and survived their conversion to Christianity in the Scandinavian customs of decorating the house and barn with evergreens at the New Year to scare away the devil and of setting up a tree for the birds during Christmas time.\"\n\nDuring the Roman mid-winter festival of Saturnalia, houses were decorated with wreaths of evergreen plants, along with other antecedent customs now associated with Christmas.\n\nThe modern Christmas tree is frequently traced to the symbolism of trees in pre-Christian winter rites, wherein Viking and Saxon worshiped trees. The story of Saint Boniface cutting down Donar's Oak illustrates the pagan practices in 8th century among the Germans. A later folk version of the story adds the detail that an evergreen tree grew in place of the felled oak, telling them about how its triangular shape reminds humanity of the Trinity and how it points to heaven.\n\nAlternatively, it is identified with the \"tree of paradise\" of medieval mystery plays that were given on 24 December, the commemoration and name day of Adam and Eve in various countries. In such plays, a tree decorated with apples (to represent the forbidden fruit) and wafers (to represent the Eucharist and redemption) was used as a setting for the play. Like the Christmas crib, the Paradise tree was later placed in homes. The apples were replaced by round objects such as shiny red balls.\n\nAt the end of the Middle Ages, an early predecessor appears referred in the Regiment of the Order of Cister around 1400, in Alcobaça, Portugal. The Regiment of the local \"high-Sacristans\" of the Cistercian Order refers to what may be considered one of the oldest references to the Christmas tree: \"Note on how to put the Christmas branch, \"scilicet\": On the Christmas eve, you will look for a large Branch of green laurel, and you shall reap many red oranges, and place them on the branches that come of the laurel, specifically as you have seen, and in every orange you shall put a candle, and hang the Branch by a rope in the pole, which shall be by the candle of the \"altar-mor\".\"\n\nModern Christmas trees originated during the Renaissance of early modern Germany. Its 16th-century origins are sometimes associated with Protestant Christian reformer Martin Luther, who is said to have first added lighted candles to an evergreen tree.\n\nThe first recorded Christmas tree can be found on the keystone sculpture of a private home in Turckheim, Alsace (then part of Germany, today France), dating 1576.\n\nGeorgians have their own traditional Christmas tree called Chichilaki, made from dried up hazelnut or walnut branches that are shaped to form a small coniferous tree. These pale-colored ornaments differ in height from to . Chichilakis are most common in the Guria and Samegrelo regions of Georgia near the Black Sea, but they can also be found in some stores around the capital of Tbilisi.\nGeorgians believe that Chichilaki resembles the famous beard of St. Basil the Great, because Eastern Orthodox Church commemorates St. Basil on January 1.\n\nThere was an old pagan custom, associated with Koliada, of suspending a branch of fir, spruce or pine called Podłaźniczka from the ceiling. The branches were decorated with apples, nuts, cookies, colored paper, stars made of straw, ribbons and colored wafers. Some people believed that the tree had magical powers that were linked with harvesting and success in the next year.\n\nIn the late 18th and early 19th century, these traditions were almost completely replaced by the German custom of decorating the Christmas tree.\n\nCustoms of erecting decorated trees in wintertime can be traced to Christmas celebrations in Renaissance-era guilds in Northern Germany and Livonia. The first evidence of decorated trees associated with Christmas Day are trees in guildhalls decorated with sweets to be enjoyed by the apprentices and children. In Livonia (present-day Estonia and Latvia), in 1441, 1442, 1510 and 1514, the Brotherhood of Blackheads erected a tree for the holidays in their guild houses in Reval (now Tallinn) and Riga. On the last night of the celebrations leading up to the holidays, the tree was taken to the Town Hall Square, where the members of the brotherhood danced around it.\n\nA Bremen guild chronicle of 1570 reports that a small tree decorated with \"apples, nuts, dates, pretzels and paper flowers\" was erected in the guild-house for the benefit of the guild members' children, who collected the dainties on Christmas Day. In 1584, the pastor and chronicler Balthasar Russow in his (1584) wrote of an established tradition of setting up a decorated spruce at the market square, where the young men \"went with a flock of maidens and women, first sang and danced there and then set the tree aflame\".\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, such trees are seen in the houses of upper-class Protestant families as a counterpart to the Catholic Christmas cribs. This transition from the guild hall to the bourgeois family homes in the Protestant parts of Germany ultimately gives rise to the modern tradition as it developed in the 18th and 19th centuries.\n\nBy the early 18th century, the custom had become common in towns of the upper Rhineland, but it had not yet spread to rural areas. Wax candles, expensive items at the time, are found in attestations from the late 18th century.\n\nAlong the lower Rhine, an area of Roman Catholic majority, the Christmas tree was largely regarded as a Protestant custom. As a result, it remained confined to the upper Rhineland for a relatively long period of time. The custom did eventually gain wider acceptance beginning around 1815 by way of Prussian officials who emigrated there following the Congress of Vienna.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Christmas tree was taken to be an expression of German culture and of , especially among emigrants overseas.\n\nA decisive factor in winning general popularity was the German army's decision to place Christmas trees in its barracks and military hospitals during the Franco-Prussian War. Only at the start of the 20th century did Christmas trees appear inside churches, this time in a new brightly lit form.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the custom became popular among the nobility and spread to royal courts as far as Russia. Princess Henrietta of Nassau-Weilburg introduced the Christmas tree to Vienna in 1816, and the custom spread across Austria in the following years. In France, the first Christmas tree was introduced in 1840 by the duchesse d'Orléans. In Denmark a Danish newspaper claims that the first attested Christmas tree was lit in 1808 by countess Wilhemine of Holsteinborg. It was the aging countess who told the story of the first Danish Christmas tree to the Danish writer Hans Christian Andersen in 1865. He had published a fairy-tale called \"The Fir-Tree\" in 1844, recounting the fate of a fir-tree being used as a Christmas tree.\n\nAlthough the tradition of decorating churches and homes with evergreens at Christmas was long established, the custom of decorating an entire small tree was unknown in Britain until some two centuries ago. At the time of the personal union with Hanover, George III's German-born wife, Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, introduced a Christmas tree at a party she gave for children in 1800. The custom did not at first spread much beyond the royal family. Queen Victoria as a child was familiar with it and a tree was placed in her room every Christmas. In her journal for Christmas Eve 1832, the delighted 13-year-old princess wrote:\n\nAfter dinner... we then went into the drawing-room near the dining-room... There were two large round tables on which were placed two trees hung with lights and sugar ornaments. All the presents being placed round the trees...\n\nAfter Victoria's marriage to her German cousin Prince Albert, by 1841 the custom became even more widespread as wealthier middle-class families followed the fashion. In 1842 a newspaper advert for Christmas trees makes clear their smart cachet, German origins and association with children and gift-giving. An illustrated book, \"The Christmas Tree\", describing their use and origins in detail, was on sale in December 1844. On 2 January 1846 Elizabeth Fielding (née Fox Strangways) wrote from Laycock Abbey to William Henry Fox-Talbot: \"Constance is extremely busy preparing the Bohemian Xmas Tree. It is made from Caroline's description of those she saw in Germany\". In 1847 Prince Albert wrote: \"I must now seek in the children an echo of what Ernest [his brother] and I were in the old time, of what we felt and thought; and their delight in the Christmas-trees is not less than ours used to be\". A boost to the trend was given in 1848 when \"The Illustrated London News\", in a report picked up by other papers, described the trees in Windsor Castle in detail and showed the main tree, surrounded by the royal family, on its cover. In fewer than ten years their use in better-off homes was widespread. By 1856 a northern provincial newspaper contained an advert alluding casually to them, as well as reporting the accidental death of a woman whose dress caught fire as she lit the tapers on a Christmas tree. They had not yet spread down the social scale though, as a report from Berlin in 1858 contrasts the situation there where \"Every family has its own\" with that of Britain, where Christmas trees were still the preserve of the wealthy or the \"romantic\".\n\nTheir use at public entertainments, charity bazaars and in hospitals made them increasingly familiar however, and in 1906 a charity was set up specifically to ensure even poor children in London slums 'who had never seen a Christmas tree' would enjoy one that year. Anti-German sentiment after World War I briefly reduced their popularity but the effect was short-lived and by the mid-1920s the use of Christmas trees had spread to all classes. In 1933 a restriction on the importation of foreign trees led to the \"rapid growth of a new industry\" as the growing of Christmas trees within Britain became commercially viable due to the size of demand. By 2013 the number of trees grown in Britain for the Christmas market was approximately 8 million and their display in homes, shops and public spaces a normal part of the Christmas season.\n\nThe tradition was introduced to North America in the winter of 1781 by Hessian soldiers stationed in the Province of Québec (1763–1791) to garrison the colony against American attack. General Friedrich Adolf Riedesel and his wife, the Baroness von Riedesel, held a Christmas party for the officers at Sorel, delighting their guests with a fir tree decorated with candles and fruits.\n\nThe Christmas tree became very common in the United States in the early nineteenth century. The first image of a Christmas tree was published in 1836 as the frontispiece to \"The Stranger's Gift\" by Hermann Bokum. The first mention of the Christmas tree in American literature was in a story in the 1836 edition of \"The Token and Atlantic Souvenir\", titled \"New Year's Day,\" by Catherine Maria Sedgwick, where she tells the story of a German maid decorating her mistress's tree. Also, a woodcut of the British Royal family with their Christmas tree at Windsor Castle, initially published in \"The Illustrated London News\" December 1848, was copied in the United States at Christmas 1850, in \"Godey's Lady's Book\". \"Godey's\" copied it exactly, except for the removal of the Queen's tiara and Prince Albert's moustache, to remake the engraving into an American scene. The republished \"Godey's\" image became the first widely circulated picture of a decorated evergreen Christmas tree in America. Art historian Karal Ann Marling called Prince Albert and Queen Victoria, shorn of their royal trappings, \"the first influential American Christmas tree\". Folk-culture historian Alfred Lewis Shoemaker states, \"In all of America there was no more important medium in spreading the Christmas tree in the decade 1850–60 than \"Godey's Lady's Book\"\". The image was reprinted in 1860, and by the 1870s, putting up a Christmas tree had become even more common in America.\n\nSeveral cities in the United States with German connections lay claim to that country's first Christmas tree: Windsor Locks, Connecticut, claims that a Hessian soldier put up a Christmas tree in 1777 while imprisoned at the Noden-Reed House, while the \"First Christmas Tree in America\" is also claimed by Easton, Pennsylvania, where German settlers purportedly erected a Christmas tree in 1816. In his diary, Matthew Zahm of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, recorded the use of a Christmas tree in 1821, leading Lancaster to also lay claim to the first Christmas tree in America. Other accounts credit Charles Follen, a German immigrant to Boston, for being the first to introduce to America the custom of decorating a Christmas tree. August Imgard, a German immigrant living in Wooster, Ohio, is said to be the first to popularize the practice of decorating a tree with candy canes. In 1847, Imgard cut a blue spruce tree from a woods outside town, had the Wooster village tinsmith construct a star, and placed the tree in his house, decorating it with paper ornaments, gilded nuts and Kuchen. German immigrant Charles Minnegerode accepted a position as a professor of humanities at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, in 1842, where he taught Latin and Greek. Entering into the social life of the Virginia Tidewater, Minnigerode introduced the German custom of decorating an evergreen tree at Christmas at the home of law professor St. George Tucker, thereby becoming another of many influences that prompted Americans to adopt the practice at about that time. An 1853 article on Christmas customs in Pennsylvania defines them as mostly \"German in origin\", including the Christmas tree, which is \"planted in a flower pot filled with earth, and its branches are covered with presents, chiefly of confectionary, for the younger members of the family.\" The article distinguishes between customs in different states however, claiming that in New England generally \"Christmas is not much celebrated\", whereas in Pennsylvania and New York it is.\n\nWhen Edward H. Johnson was vice president of the Edison Electric Light Company, a predecessor of Con Edison, he created the first known electrically illuminated Christmas tree at his home in New York City in 1882. Johnson became the \"Father of Electric Christmas Tree Lights\".\n\nThe lyrics sung in the United States to the German tune begin \"O Christmas tree...\", giving rise to the mistaken idea that the German word (fir tree) means \"Christmas tree\", the German word for which is instead .\n\nIn Russia, the Christmas tree was banned after the October Revolution but then reinstated as a \"New-year spruce\" (, ) in 1935. It became a fully secular icon of the New Year holiday, for example, the crowning star was regarded not as a symbol of Bethlehem Star, but as the Red star. Decorations, such as figurines of airplanes, bicycles, space rockets, cosmonauts, and characters of Russian fairy tales, were produced. This tradition persists after the fall of the USSR, with the New Year holiday outweighing the Christmas (7 January) for a wide majority of Russian people.\n\nThe TV special \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\" (1965) was influential on the pop culture surrounding the Christmas tree. Aluminum Christmas trees were popular during the early 1960s in the US. They were satirized in the Charlie Brown show and came to be seen as symbolizing the commercialization of Christmas. The term \"Charlie Brown Christmas tree\", describing any poor-looking or malformed little tree, also derives from the 1965 TV special, based on the appearance of Charlie Brown's Christmas tree.\n\nSince the early 20th century, it has become common in many cities, towns, and department stores to put up public Christmas trees outdoors, such as the Macy's Great Tree in Atlanta (since 1948), the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree in New York City, and the large Christmas tree at Victoria Square in Adelaide.\nThe use of fire retardant allows many indoor public areas to place real trees and be compliant with code. Licensed applicants of fire retardant solution spray the tree, tag the tree, and provide a certificate for inspection. Real trees are popular with high end visual merchandising displays around the world. Leading global retailers such as Apple often place real trees in their window displays. In 2009, Apple placed two Fraser fir trees in every one of its retail establishments.\n\nThe United States' National Christmas Tree has been lit each year since 1923 on the South Lawn of the White House. Today, the lighting of the National Christmas Tree is part of what has become a major holiday event at the White House. President Jimmy Carter lit only the crowning star atop the tree in 1979 in honor of the Americans being held hostage in Iran. The same was true in 1980, except that the tree was fully lit for 417 seconds, one second for each day the hostages had been in captivity.\n\nDuring most of the 1970s and 1980s, the largest decorated Christmas tree in the world was put up every year on the property of the \"National Enquirer\" in Lantana, Florida. This tradition grew into one of the most spectacular and celebrated events in the history of southern Florida, but was discontinued on the death of the paper's founder in the late 1980s.\n\nIn some cities, a charity event called the Festival of Trees is organized, in which multiple trees are decorated and displayed.\n\nThe giving of Christmas trees has also often been associated with the end of hostilities. After the signing of the Armistice in 1918 the city of Manchester sent a tree, and £500 to buy chocolate and cakes, for the children of the much-bombarded town of Lille in northern France. In some cases the trees represent special commemorative gifts, such as in Trafalgar Square in London, where the City of Oslo, Norway presents a tree to the people of London as a token of appreciation for the British support of Norwegian resistance during the Second World War; in Boston, where the tree is a gift from the province of Nova Scotia, in thanks for rapid deployment of supplies and rescuers to the 1917 ammunition ship explosion that leveled the city of Halifax; and in Newcastle upon Tyne, where the main civic Christmas tree is an annual gift from the city of Bergen, in thanks for the part played by soldiers from Newcastle in liberating Bergen from Nazi occupation. Norway also annually gifts a Christmas tree to Washington, D.C. as a symbol of friendship between Norway and the US and as an expression of gratitude from Norway for the help received from the US during World War II.\n\nA \"Chrismon tree\" is a Christmas tree decorated with explicitly Christian symbols in white and gold.\nFirst introduced by North American Lutherans in 1957, the practice has rapidly spread to other Christian denominations, including Anglicans,\nCatholics, Methodists, and the Reformed.\n\n\"Chrismon\" (plural \"Chrismons\") was adopted for the type of Christmas decoration and explained as a portmanteau of \"Christ-monogram\" (a Christogram).\n\nBoth setting up and taking down a Christmas tree are associated with specific dates. Traditionally, Christmas trees were not brought in and decorated until Christmas Eve (24 December) or, in the traditions celebrating Christmas Eve rather than the first day of Christmas, 23 December, and then removed the day after Twelfth Night (5 January); to have a tree up before or after these dates was even considered bad luck, and that to avoid bad luck from affecting the house's residents, the tree must be left up until after the following Twelfth Night passes.\n\nIn many areas, it has become customary to set up one's Christmas tree at the beginning of the Advent season. Some families in the U.S. and Canada will put up a Christmas tree a week prior to American Thanksgiving (the fourth Thursday of November), and Christmas decorations can show up even earlier in retail stores, often the day after Halloween (31 October). In Canada many families wait until after Remembrance Day, as to show respect to fallen soldiers. Some households do not put up the tree until the second week of December, and leave it up until 6 January (Epiphany). In Germany, traditionally the tree is put up on 24 December and taken down on 7 January, though many start one or two weeks earlier, and in Roman Catholic homes the tree may be kept until February 2 (Candlemas).\n\nIn Italy, Ireland and Argentina, along with many countries in Latin America, the Christmas tree is put up on 8 December (Immaculate Conception day) and left up until 6 January. In Australia, the Christmas tree is usually put up on 1 December, which occurs about 2 weeks before the school summer holidays (except for South Australia, where most people put up their tree in November following the completion of the Adelaide Christmas Pageant, a time frame that has started to filter into other states as the official time Christmas decorations and in store Santa Claus start to appear) and is left up until it is taken down. Some traditions suggest that Christmas trees may be kept up until no later than 2 February, the feast of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple (Candlemas), when the Christmas season effectively closes. Superstitions say that it is a bad sign if Christmas greenery is not removed by Candlemas Eve.\n\nChristmas ornaments are decorations (usually made of glass, metal, wood, or ceramics) that are used to decorate a Christmas tree. The first decorated trees were adorned with apples, white candy canes and pastries in the shapes of stars, hearts and flowers. Glass baubles were first made in Lauscha, Germany, and also garlands of glass beads and tin figures that could be hung on trees. The popularity of these decorations grew into the production of glass figures made by highly skilled artisans with clay molds.\n\nTinsel and several types of garland or ribbon are commonly used to decorate a Christmas tree. Silvered saran-based tinsel was introduced later. Delicate mold-blown and painted colored glass Christmas ornaments were a specialty of the glass factories in the Thuringian Forest, especially in Lauscha in the late 19th century, and have since become a large industry, complete with famous-name designers. Baubles are another common decoration, consisting of small hollow glass or plastic spheres coated with a thin metallic layer to make them reflective, with a further coating of a thin pigmented polymer in order to provide coloration.\nLighting with electric lights (Christmas lights or, in the United Kingdom, fairy lights) is commonly done. A tree-topper, sometimes an angel but more frequently a star, completes the decoration.\n\nIn the late 1800s, home-made white Christmas trees were made by wrapping strips of cotton batting around leafless branches creating the appearance of a snow-laden tree.\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, popularized by Hollywood films in the late 1930s, flocking was very popular on the West Coast of the United States. There were home flocking kits that could be used with vacuum cleaners. In the 1980s some trees were sprayed with fluffy white flocking to simulate snow.\n\nEach year, 33 to 36 million Christmas trees are produced in America, and 50 to 60 million are produced in Europe. In 1998, there were about 15,000 growers in America (a third of them \"choose and cut\" farms). In that same year, it was estimated that Americans spent $1.5 billion on Christmas trees. By 2016 that had climbed to $2.04 billion for natural trees and a further $1.86 billion for artificial trees. In Europe, 75 million trees worth €2.4 billion ($3.2 billion) are harvested annually.\n\nThe average cost of a live cut tree in the United States was $64 in 2015 and this rose to $73 in 2017. The price is expected to hold steady for the next year.\n\nThe most commonly used species are fir (\"Abies\"), which have the benefit of not shedding their needles when they dry out, as well as retaining good foliage color and scent; but species in other genera are also used.\n\nIn northern Europe most commonly used are:\n\nIn North America, Central America and South America most commonly used are:\n\nSeveral other species are used to a lesser extent. Less-traditional conifers are sometimes used, such as giant sequoia, Leyland cypress, Monterey cypress and eastern juniper. Various types of spruce tree are also used for Christmas trees (including the blue spruce and, less commonly, the white spruce); but spruces begin to lose their needles rapidly upon being cut, and spruce needles are often sharp, making decorating uncomfortable. Virginia pine is still available on some tree farms in the southeastern United States; however, its winter color is faded. The long-needled eastern white pine is also used there, though it is an unpopular Christmas tree in most parts of the country, owing also to its faded winter coloration and limp branches, making decorating difficult with all but the lightest ornaments. Norfolk Island pine is sometimes used, particularly in Oceania, and in Australia, some species of the genera \"Casuarina\" and \"Allocasuarina\" are also occasionally used as Christmas trees. But, by far, the most common tree is the Monterey pine. \"Adenanthos sericeus\" or Albany woolly bush is commonly sold in southern Australia as a potted living Christmas tree. Hemlock species are generally considered unsuitable as Christmas trees due to their poor needle retention and inability to support the weight of lights and ornaments.\n\nSome trees, frequently referred to as \"living Christmas trees\", are sold live with roots and soil, often from a plant nursery, to be stored at nurseries in planters or planted later outdoors and enjoyed (and often decorated) for years or decades. Others are produced in a container and sometimes as topiary for a porch or patio. However, when done improperly, the combination of root loss caused by digging, and the indoor environment of high temperature and low humidity is very detrimental to the tree's health; additionally, the warmth of an indoor climate will bring the tree out of its natural winter dormancy, leaving it little protection when put back outside into a cold outdoor climate. Often Christmas trees are a large attraction for living animals, including mice and spiders. Thus, the survival rate of these trees is low. However, when done properly, replanting provides higher survival rates.\n\nEuropean tradition prefers the open aspect of naturally grown, unsheared trees, while in North America (outside western areas where trees are often wild-harvested on public lands) there is a preference for close-sheared trees with denser foliage, but less space to hang decorations.\n\nIn the past, Christmas trees were often harvested from wild forests, but now almost all are commercially grown on tree farms. Almost all Christmas trees in the United States are grown on Christmas tree farms where they are cut after about ten years of growth and new trees planted. According to the United States Department of Agriculture's agriculture census for 2007, 21,537 farms were producing conifers for the cut Christmas tree market in America, were planted in Christmas trees.\n\nThe life cycle of a Christmas tree from the seed to a tree takes, depending on species and treatment in cultivation, between 8 and 12 years. First, the seed is extracted from cones harvested from older trees. These seeds are then usually grown in nurseries and then sold to Christmas tree farms at an age of 3–4 years. The remaining development of the tree greatly depends on the climate, soil quality, as well as the cultivation and how the trees are tended by the Christmas tree farmer.\n\nThe first artificial Christmas trees were developed in Germany during the 19th century, though earlier examples exist. These \"trees\" were made using goose feathers that were dyed green., as one response by Germans to continued deforestation. Feather Christmas trees ranged widely in size, from a small tree to a large tree sold in department stores during the 1920s. Often, the tree branches were tipped with artificial red berries which acted as candle holders.\n\nOver the years, other styles of artificial Christmas trees have evolved and become popular. In 1930, the U.S.-based Addis Brush Company created the first artificial Christmas tree made from brush bristles. Another type of artificial tree is the aluminum Christmas tree, first manufactured in Chicago in 1958, and later in Manitowoc, Wisconsin, where the majority of the trees were produced. Most modern artificial Christmas trees are made from plastic recycled from used packaging materials, such as polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Approximately 10% of artificial Christmas trees are using virgin suspension PVC resin; despite being plastic most artificial trees are not recyclable or biodegradable.\n\nOther trends have developed in the early 2000s as well. Optical fiber Christmas trees come in two major varieties; one resembles a traditional Christmas tree. One Dallas-based company offers \"holographic mylar\" trees in many hues. Tree-shaped objects made from such materials as cardboard, glass, ceramic or other materials can be found in use as tabletop decorations. Upside-down artificial Christmas trees became popular for a short time and were originally introduced as a marketing gimmick; they allowed consumers to get closer to ornaments for sale in retail stores and opened up floor space for more products.\nArtificial trees became increasingly popular during the late 20th century. Users of artificial Christmas trees assert that they are more convenient, and, because they are reusable, much cheaper than their natural alternative. They are also considered much safer as natural trees can be a significant fire hazard. Between 2001 and 2007 artificial Christmas tree sales in the U.S. jumped from 7.3 million to 17.4 million. Currently it is estimated that around 58% of Christmas trees used in the United States are artificial while numbers in the United Kingdom are indicated to be around 66%.\n\nThe debate about the environmental impact of artificial trees is ongoing. Generally, natural tree growers contend that artificial trees are more environmentally harmful than their natural counterparts. However, trade groups such as the American Christmas Tree Association, continue to refute that artificial trees are more harmful to the environment, and maintain that the PVC used in Christmas trees has excellent recyclable properties.\nLive trees are typically grown as a crop and replanted in rotation after cutting, often providing suitable habitat for wildlife. Alternately, live trees can be donated to livestock farmers of such animals like goats who find that such trees uncontaminated by chemical additives are excellent fodder. In some cases management of Christmas tree crops can result in poor habitat since it sometimes involves heavy input of pesticides.\nConcerns have been raised about people cutting down old and rare conifers, such as the \"Keteleeria evelyniana\" and \"Abies fraseri\", for Christmas trees.\nReal or cut trees are used only for a short time, but can be recycled and used as mulch, wildlife habitat, or used to prevent erosion. Real trees are carbon-neutral, they emit no more carbon dioxide by being cut down and disposed of than they absorb while growing. However, emissions can occur from farming activities and transportation. An independent life-cycle assessment study, conducted by a firm of experts in sustainable development, states that a natural tree will generate of greenhouse gases every year (based on purchasing from home) whereas the artificial tree will produce over its lifetime. Some people use living Christmas or potted trees for several seasons, providing a longer life cycle for each tree. Living Christmas trees can be purchased or rented from local market growers. Rentals are picked up after the holidays, while purchased trees can be planted by the owner after use or donated to local tree adoption or urban reforestation services. Smaller and younger trees may be replanted after each season, with the following year running up to the next Christmas allowing the tree to carry out further growth.\n\nMost artificial trees are made of recycled PVC rigid sheets using tin stabilizer in the recent years. In the past, lead was often used as a stabilizer in PVC, but is now banned by Chinese laws.\nThe use of lead stabilizer in Chinese imported trees has been an issue of concern among politicians and scientists over recent years. A 2004 study found that while in general artificial trees pose little health risk from lead contamination, there do exist \"worst-case scenarios\" where major health risks to young children exist. A 2008 United States Environmental Protection Agency report found that as the PVC in artificial Christmas trees aged it began to degrade. The report determined that of the 50 million artificial trees in the United States approximately 20 million were 9 or more years old, the point where dangerous lead contamination levels are reached. A professional study on the life-cycle assessment of both real and artificial Christmas trees revealed that one must use an artificial Christmas tree at least 20 years to leave an environmental footprint as small as the natural Christmas tree.\n\nThe Christmas tree was first used by German Lutherans in the 16th century, with records indicating that a Christmas tree was placed in the Cathedral of Strassburg in 1539, under the leadership of the Protestant Reformer, Martin Bucer. In the United States, these \"German Lutherans brought the decorated Christmas tree with them; the Moravians put lighted candles on those trees.\" When decorating the Christmas tree, many individuals place a star at the top of the tree symbolizing the Star of Bethlehem, a fact recorded by \"The School Journal\" in 1897. Professor David Albert Jones of Oxford University writes that in the 19th century, it became popular for people to also use an angel to top the Christmas tree in order to symbolize the angels mentioned in the accounts of the Nativity of Jesus.\n\nUnder the Marxist-Leninist doctrine of state atheism in the Soviet Union, after its foundation in 1917, Christmas celebrations—along with other religious holidays—were prohibited as a result of the Soviet anti-religious campaign. The League of Militant Atheists encouraged school pupils to campaign against Christmas traditions, among them being the Christmas tree, as well as other Christian holidays, including Easter; the League established an anti-religious holiday to be the 31st of each month as a replacement. With the Christmas tree being prohibited in accordance with Soviet anti-religious legislation, people supplanted the former Christmas custom with New Year's trees. In 1935 the tree was brought back as New Year tree and became a secular, not a religious holiday.\n\nPope John Paul II introduced the Christmas tree custom to the Vatican in 1982. Although at first disapproved of by some as out of place at the centre of the Roman Catholic Church, the Vatican Christmas Tree has become an integral part of the Vatican Christmas celebrations, and in 2005 Pope Benedict XVI spoke of it as part of the normal Christmas decorations in Catholic homes. In 2004, Pope John Paul called the Christmas tree a symbol of Christ. This very ancient custom, he said, exalts the value of life, as in winter what is evergreen becomes a sign of undying life, and it reminds Christians of the \"tree of life\" of , an image of Christ, the supreme gift of God to humanity. In the previous year he said: \"Beside the crib, the Christmas tree, with its twinkling lights, reminds us that with the birth of Jesus the tree of life has blossomed anew in the desert of humanity. The crib and the tree: precious symbols, which hand down in time the true meaning of Christmas.\" The Catholic Church's official \"Book of Blessings\" has a service for the blessing of the Christmas tree in a home. Likewise the Protestant Episcopal Church in \"The Anglican Family Prayer Book\", which has the imprimatur of The Rt. Rev. Catherine S. Roskam of the Anglican Communion, has long had a ritual titled \"Blessing of a Christmas Tree\", as well as \"Blessing of a Crèche\", for use in the church and the home.\n\nIn 2005, the city of Boston renamed the spruce tree used to decorate the Boston Common a \"Holiday Tree\" rather than a \"Christmas Tree\". The name change drew a poor response from the public and it was reversed after the city was threatened with several lawsuits.\n\n\"Chrismon trees\" are a variety developed in 1957 by a Lutheran laywoman in Virginia, as a specifically religious version appropriate for a church's Christmas celebrations, although most Christian churches continue to display the traditional Christmas tree in their sanctuaries during Christmastide.\n\n"}
{"id": "2839771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839771", "title": "Chushu", "text": "Chushu\n\nThe traditional East Asian calendars divide a year into 24 solar terms. Chǔshǔ, \"Shosho\", \"Cheoseo\", or \"Xử thử\" () is the 14th solar term. It begins when the Sun reaches the celestial longitude of 150° and ends when it reaches the longitude of 165°. It more often refers in particular to the day when the Sun is exactly at the celestial longitude of 150°. In the Gregorian calendar, it usually begins around 23 August and ends around 7 September.\n\n"}
{"id": "4884217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884217", "title": "Clean coal technology", "text": "Clean coal technology\n\nClean coal technology is a collection of technologies being developed to attempt to help lessen the environmental impact of coal energy generation and to mitigate worldwide climate change. When coal is used as a fuel source, the gaseous emissions generated by the thermal decomposition of the coal include sulfur dioxide (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO), mercury, and other chemical byproducts that vary depending on the type of the coal being used. These emissions have been established to have a negative impact on the environment and human health, contributing to acid rain, lung cancer and cardiovascular disease. As a result, clean coal technologies are being developed to remove or reduce pollutant emissions to the atmosphere. Some of the techniques that would be used to accomplish this include chemically washing minerals and impurities from the coal, gasification (see also IGCC), improved technology for treating flue gases to remove pollutants to increasingly stringent levels and at higher efficiency, carbon capture and storage technologies to capture the carbon dioxide from the flue gas and dewatering lower rank coals (brown coals) to improve the calorific value, and thus the efficiency of the conversion into electricity. Concerns exist regarding the economic viability of these technologies and the timeframe of delivery, potentially high hidden economic costs in terms of social and environmental damage, and the costs and viability of disposing of removed carbon and other toxic matter.\n\nIn its original usage, the term \"Clean Coal\" was used to refer to technologies that were designed to reduce emission of pollutants associated with burning coal, such as washing coal at the mine. This step removes some of the sulfur and other contaminants, including rocks and soil. This makes coal cleaner and cheaper to transport. More recently, the definition of clean coal has been expanded to include carbon capture and storage. Clean coal technology usually addresses atmospheric problems resulting from burning coal. Historically, the primary focus was on SO and NO, the most important gases in causation of acid rain, and particulates which cause visible air pollution and have deleterious effects on human health. \n\nSeveral different technological methods are available for the purpose of carbon capture as demanded by the clean coal concept:\nThe Kemper County IGCC Project, a proposed 582 MW coal gasification-based power plant, was expected to use pre-combustion capture of CO to capture 65% of the CO the plant produces, which would have been utilized and geologically sequestered in enhanced oil recovery operations. However, after many delays and a cost runup to $7.5 billion (triple the initial budget), the coal gasification project was abandoned and as of late 2017, Kemper is under construction as a cheaper natural gas power plant.\n\nThe Saskatchewan Government's Boundary Dam Integrated Carbon Capture and Sequestration Demonstration Project will use post-combustion, amine-based scrubber technology to capture 90% of the CO emitted by Unit 3 of the power plant; this CO will be pipelined to and utilized for enhanced oil recovery in the Weyburn oil fields.\nAn early example of a coal-based plant using (oxy-fuel) carbon-capture technology is Swedish company Vattenfall’s Schwarze Pumpe power station located in Spremberg, Germany, built by German firm Siemens, which went on-line in September 2008. The facility captures CO and acid rain producing pollutants, separates them, and compresses the CO into a liquid. Plans are to inject the CO into depleted natural gas fields or other geological formations. Vattenfall opines that this technology is considered not to be a final solution for CO reduction in the atmosphere, but provides an achievable solution in the near term while more desirable alternative solutions to power generation can be made economically practical.\n\nOther examples of oxy-combustion carbon capture are in progress. Callide Power Station has retrofitted a 30-MWth existing PC-fired power plant to operate in oxy-fuel mode; in Ciuden, Spain, Endesa has a newly built 30-MWth oxy-fuel plant using circulating fluidized bed combustion (CFBC) technology. Babcock-ThermoEnergy's Zero Emission Boiler System (ZEBS) is oxy-combustion-based; this system features near 100% carbon-capture and according to company information virtually no air-emissions.\n\nOther carbon capture and storage technologies include those that dewater low-rank coals. Low-rank coals often contain a higher level of moisture content which contains a lower energy content per tonne. This causes a reduced burning efficiency and an increased emissions output. Reduction of moisture from the coal prior to combustion can reduce emissions by up to 50 percent.\n\nThe UK government is working towards a clean energy future and supported clean coal projects across the country. In August 2010, UK-based company B9 Coal announced a clean coal project with 90% carbon capture to be put forward to DECC. This proposed project was to create pure streams of hydrogen and carbon dioxide. The hydrogen was then to be used as an emissions-free fuel to run an alkaline fuel cell whilst the carbon dioxide was to be captured.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) began conducting a joint program with the industry and State agencies to demonstrate clean coal technologies large enough for commercial use. The program, called the Clean Coal Technology & Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI), has had a number of successes that have reduced emissions and waste from coal-based electricity generation. The National Energy Technology Laboratory has administered three rounds of CCPI funding and the following projects were selected during each round:\n\n\nThese programs have helped to meet regulatory challenges by incorporating pollution control technologies into a portfolio of cost-effective regulatory compliance options for conventional and developmental coal-fired power plants. This portfolio has positioned the U.S. as a top exporter of clean coal technologies such as those used for SOx, NOx and mercury, and more recently for carbon capture, consistent with a goal of deploying advanced coal-based power systems in commercial service with improved efficiency and environmental performance to meet increasingly stringent environmental regulations and market demands, leading to widespread, global deployment which will contribute to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The DOE continues its programs and initiatives through regional sequestration partnerships, a carbon sequestration leadership forum and the Carbon Sequestration Core Program, a CCS research and development program.\n\nAccording to a report by the assistant secretary for fossil energy at the U.S. Department of Energy, clean coal technology has paid measurable dividends. Technological innovation introduced through the CCT Program now provides consumers cost-effective, clean, coal-based energy.\n\nAccording to United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the burning of coal, a fossil fuel, is a major contributor to global warming. (See the UN IPCC Fourth Assessment Report). As 26% of the world's electrical generation in 2004 was from coal-fired generation (see World energy resources and consumption), reaching the carbon dioxide reduction targets of the Kyoto Protocol will require modifications to how coal is utilized.\n\nCoal, which is primarily used for the generation of electricity, is the second largest domestic contributor to carbon dioxide emissions in the US. The public has become more concerned about global warming which has led to new legislation. The coal industry has responded by running advertising touting clean coal in an effort to counter negative perceptions and claiming more than $50 billion towards the development and deployment of \"traditional\" clean coal technologies over the past 30 years; and promising $500 million towards carbon capture and storage research and development. There is still concern about clean coal technology being perceived as more environmentally friendly than it is, and the term \"Clean Coal\" has been used as an example of \"greenwashing\". According to the Sierra Club, \"Despite the industry's hype, there's no such thing as 'clean coal.' But new technologies and policies can help reduce coal plants' deadly emissions.\"\n\nConjunction with enhanced oil recovery and other applications; commercial-scale CCS is currently being tested in the U.S. and other countries. Proposed CCS sites are subjected to extensive investigation and monitoring to avoid potential hazards, which could include leakage of sequestered CO to the atmosphere, induced geological instability, or contamination of water sources such as oceans and aquifers used for drinking water supplies.\n\nThe Great Plains Synfuels plant supports the technical feasibility of carbon dioxide sequestration. Carbon dioxide from the coal gasification is shipped to Canada where it is injected into the ground to aid in oil recovery. A drawback of the carbon sequestration process is that it is expensive compared to traditional processes.\n\nBoth traditional coal technology and clean coal technologies result in a release of hazardous air pollutants and many of them have an adverse affect on human health. According to Alan H. Lockwood, MD, coal is linked to diseases of the Respiratory System, Cardiovascular System, and Nervous System. A key point that Dr. Lockwood brings up is that “the most obvious threats to health posed by the carbon capture and storage strategies… would occur in the event of the release of large amounts of CO. The potential releases could occur at any of the stages: at the site of CO capture, during transport, or transfer… or escape during or after storage.” Dr. Lockwood goes on to explain that this can lead to “symptoms of death by displacing oxygen from inhaled air, leading to hypoxia and asphyxiation, or by causing symptomatic or fatal acidification of the blood and body fluids after inhalation” \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8995361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8995361", "title": "Comisión Federal de Electricidad", "text": "Comisión Federal de Electricidad\n\nThe Comisión Federal de Electricidad () is the state-owned electric utility of Mexico, widely known as CFE. It is the country's dominant electric company, and the country's second most powerful state-owned company after Pemex. The Mexican constitution states that the government is responsible for the control and development of the national electric industry, and CFE carries out this mission. The company's slogan is \"Una empresa de clase mundial\" (\"A World-Class Company\").\n\nCFE is not a part of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, though its transmission system in northern Baja California is part of the Western Electricity Coordinating Council through its interconnection with San Diego Gas & Electric via the Miguel-Tijuana and the LaRosita-Imperial Valley Lines and the Path 45 corridor; it also has a few other interconnections across the border with local utilities in the United States.\n\nOn 12 October 2009, President Felipe Calderón issued a decree dissolving Luz y Fuerza del Centro (LFC, also rendered on logo as \"LyF\"), the state-owned power company serving most of central Mexico—including Mexico City, most of the State of Mexico and some communities in the states of Morelos, Hidalgo and Puebla. The government claimed that spending had outpaced sales due in part to massive featherbedding, and it no longer made sense for the company to stay afloat. According to the government, spending at the company was increasingly outpacing sales CFE went on to control the national electric system and expand its operations nationwide, while the smaller LFC kept a low profile, maintaining its operations in the central region of Mexico.\n\nLFC provided electricity to several states where, by virtue of a federal law, CFE had no operations (a 1985 agreement between CFE and LFC increased the areas served by the former). As of March 2010, LFC's operations have been fully absorbed by CFE.\n\nSince the CFE is the dominant electric company in Mexico, most customers refer to it as \"la comisión\" (e.g. \"The commission\"). While there are other Mexican government commissions, the term is almost exclusively applied to the CFE.\n\nTwo corruption scandals in the US cite payments of bribes to officials at the CFE in return for contracts.\n\nIn September 2010, ABB, a Swiss corporation, admitted that \"ABB Network Management\", paid bribes to officials at CFE from 1997 to 2004, totaling approximately $1.9 million. In exchange for the bribe payments, according to court documents, ABB received contracts worth more than $81 million in revenue.\n\nThe matter was resolved in September 2010 in a US court.\n\nIn May 2011, Lindsey Manufacturing Company of the US was convicted by a US federal jury under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) for their alleged roles in a scheme to pay bribes to officials at the CFE.\n\nThe bribes were paid through an intermediary, who allegedly had a corrupt relationship with a senior CFE official. Lindsey Manufacturing allegedly received more than $19 million in CFE business over the course of seven years as a result of working through the intermediary.\n\nAccording to evidence presented at trial, the intermediary bought a CFE official a $297,500 Ferrari Spyder and a $1.8 million yacht, as well as paying more than $170,000 towards the official’s credit card bills. In December 2011, a US District Court dismissed the indictments against Lindsey Manufacturing, citing misconduct by the prosecution. The US Department of Justice (DOJ) said it planned to appeal the dismissal, but in May 2012 the government withdrew its appeal.\n\nIn September 2016, as reported by Pablo Gomez from Aristegui Noticias, Enrique Ochoa Reza the President of the PRI, after working at the Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE) (Federal Commission of Electricity) for 2 years and 155 days, received $1,206,000 pesos of liquidation for voluntary retirement the CFE, despite the fact that as stipulated in the article 33 of the \"Manual de Trabajo de Servidores Publicos de Mando la CFE\" (Rules for Work for Public Servers in Charge of the CFE) those liquidations only apply after 3 years of service, and can not be paid to individuals who choose voluntary retirement. Such payment also goes against the Article 127 of the Mexican Constitution. The President of Mexico Enrique Peña Nieto gave his opinion on the matter by saying: \"En este tema que tanto lacera, el tema de la corrupcion, esta en todos los ordenes de la sociedad y en todos los ambitos, no hay alguien que pueda a atraverse a arrojar la primera piedra\" (\"This topic that is so much talked, topic of the corruption, is in every order of the society and in every ambit, there is no one capable of throwing the first stone.\") This was seen as a biblical reference to the story where Jesus defends a woman caught in adultery by saying \"He who is free of sin throw the first stone\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5976538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5976538", "title": "Darwin and His Great Discovery", "text": "Darwin and His Great Discovery\n\nDarwin and His Great Discovery is a science book for young adults by L. Sprague de Camp and Catherine Crook de Camp, first published by Macmillan in 1972.\n\nThe work is an examination of naturalist Charles Darwin and the theory of evolution he proposed and marshaled evidence for in \"The Origin of Species\". A brief account of his visit to the Galápagos Islands brings up the issue of human origins, leading into a discussion of early theories on the formation and age of the earth and evolution. A biographical sketch of Darwin follows, covering his youth, his naturalistic studies on the voyage of the \"Beagle\" and subsequent life, focusing on his scientific researches and writings. The history of the theory of human evolution as currently understood is then presented, with sections on the work of Mendel, the development of the science of genetics, and the Scopes Trial. It includes a selected bibliography and index.\n\nIsadora Kunitz, writing in the \"Library Journal\", found the work a \"well-written account of Charles Darwin's life and work,\" with \"[d]etails about his personal life add[ing] to the interest of the book.\" She judged it \"an excellent supplementary title for collections.\"\n\n\"The Booklist\" called it \"[w]ell written, readable, and informative\" and suitable for readers of junior high and high school age.\n\nThe Scopes Trial was the subject of a comprehensive study previously written by L. Sprague de Camp, published as \"The Great Monkey Trial\" in 1968.\n"}
{"id": "306882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306882", "title": "Disdrometer", "text": "Disdrometer\n\nA disdrometer is an instrument used to measure the drop size distribution and velocity of falling hydrometeors. Some disdrometers can distinguish between rain, graupel, and hail.\n\nThe uses for disdrometers are numerous. They can be used for traffic control, scientific examination, airport observation systems, and hydrology. The latest disdrometers employ microwave or laser technologies. 2D video disdrometers can be used to analyze individual raindrops and snowflakes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7783698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7783698", "title": "Energy superpower", "text": "Energy superpower\n\nAn energy superpower is a country that supplies large amounts of energy resources (crude oil, natural gas, coal, uranium, etc.) to a significant number of other countries, and therefore has the potential to influence world markets to gain a political or economic advantage. Russia has been described as an energy superpower, as has Saudi Arabia, Canada, Venezuela, and Iran. The United States is said to be a potential energy superpower because of its large shale gas reserves.\n\nEnergy superpower status might be exercised, for example, by significantly influencing the price on global markets, or by withholding supplies. The status of \"energy superpower\" should not be confused with that of \"superpower\".\n\nRussia's reserves of natural gas have helped give it the title of energy superpower. However, this status has been called into question by some. As Vladimir Milov, of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, says :\n\nThe \"energy superpower\" concept is an illusion with no basis in reality. Perhaps most dangerously, it doesn’t recognize the mutual dependence between Russia and energy consumers. Because of political conflicts and declining production, future supply disruptions to Europe are likely. As a result, European gas companies may likely someday demand elimination of the take-or-pay conditions in their Russian contracts. This would threaten Gazprom’s ability to borrow. Putin’s attempt to use energy to increase Russian influence could backfire in the long run.\n\nAccording to Manik Talwani, a geophysicist at Rice University, there are two countries that are most likely to join Saudi Arabia in attaining the status of oil superpower: Venezuela and Canada. Citing their enormous potential reserves (1.2 trillion potential barrels for Venezuela and 1.75 trillion for Canada's oil sands), Talwani believes that they have the reserves to become energy superpowers in the next few decades as oil production declines elsewhere. However, as Talwani notes, both need US$100 billion or more to increase their production levels up to those of true energy superpowers.\n\nIn 2007, al-Qaeda announced a new strategy for fighting the United States. Rather than only targeting U.S. interests directly in an attempt to cripple it, al-Qaeda considers cutting off the supply of energy to the U.S. to be a high priority. As reported after a failed 2006 attempt in Saudi Arabia: \n\n"}
{"id": "1728190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1728190", "title": "Firn", "text": "Firn\n\nFirn (; from Swiss German \"last year's\", cognate with \"before\") is partially compacted névé, a type of snow that has been left over from past seasons and has been recrystallized into a substance denser than névé. It is ice that is at an intermediate stage between snow and glacial ice. Firn has the appearance of wet sugar, but has a hardness that makes it extremely resistant to shovelling. Its density generally ranges from 0.4 g/cm³ to 0.83 g/cm³, and it can often be found underneath the snow that accumulates at the head of a glacier.\n\nSnowflakes are compressed under the weight of the overlying snowpack. Individual crystals near the melting point are semiliquid and slick, allowing them to glide along other crystal planes and to fill in the spaces between them, increasing the ice's density. Where the crystals touch they bond together, squeezing the air between them to the surface or into bubbles.\n\nIn the summer months, the crystal metamorphosis can occur more rapidly because of water percolation between the crystals. By summer's end, the result is firn.\n\nThe minimum altitude that firn accumulates on a glacier is called the \"firn limit\", \"firn line\" or \"snowline\".\n\nIn colloquial and technical language, 'firn' is used to describe certain forms of old snow or harsch:\n\n"}
{"id": "4487622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4487622", "title": "Flemish Energy Agency", "text": "Flemish Energy Agency\n\nFlemish Energy Agency (; VEA) is a government agency of the Flemish Region under the \"Flemish Ministry of Environment, Nature and Energy\", tasked with the preparation and execution of Flemish energy policy. \n\nThe agency was created by a decision of the Flemish government dated April 16, 2004 as part of the government reform project \"Beter Bestuurlijk Beleid\". By a decision of the Flemish Government of March 31, 2006, the agency began operation on April 1, 2006. It is led by an Administrator-General, who is appointed by the Flemish Government for a renewable six year term.\n\nThe agency is made up out of the parts, responsible for energy, of the former Division of Natural Resources and Energy (ANRE) of the Flemish administration. It currently has some 50 employees.\n\nThe agency has its main office in Brussel and has offices in Gent and Hasselt. The agency employs a highly educated, technically trained staff, about two thirds of whom are engineers, legal and environmental protection specialists.\n\nThe Flemish Energy Agency has the following tasks:\n\nThe agency works closely with other Flemish agencies and administrations, as well as with the federal and local governments to develop new decrees and regulations and to enforce existing energy regulations. To enforce the compliance to energy regulations, the agency has the power to impose administrative sanctions, for instance fines, as punishment for non-compliance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1229268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229268", "title": "Fluid inclusion", "text": "Fluid inclusion\n\nA fluid inclusions is a microscopic bubble of liquid and gas that is trapped within a crystal. As minerals often form from a liquid or aqueous medium, tiny blebs of that liquid can become trapped within the crystal structure or in healed fractures within a crystal. These small inclusions range in size from 0.1 to 1 mm and are usually only visible in detail by microscopic study.\n\nThese inclusions occur in a wide variety of environments. For example, they are found within cementing minerals of sedimentary rocks, in gangue minerals such as quartz or calcite in hydrothermal circulation deposits, in fossil amber, and in deep ice cores from the Greenland and Antarctic ice caps. The inclusions can provide information about the conditions existing during the formation of the enclosing mineral.\n\nHydrothermal ore minerals typically form from high temperature aqueous solutions. The trapped fluid in an inclusion preserves a record of the composition, temperature and pressure of the mineralizing environment. An inclusion often contains two or more phases. If a vapor bubble is present in the inclusion along with a liquid phase, simple heating of the inclusion to the point of resorption of the vapor bubble gives a likely temperature of the original fluid. If minute crystals are present in the inclusion, such as halite, sylvite, hematite, or sulfides are present, they provide direct clues as to the composition of the original fluid.\n\nIn the recent years, fluid inclusion research has been extensively applied to understand the role of fluids in the deep crust and crust-mantle interface. Fluid inclusions trapped within granulite facies rocks have provided important clues on the petrogenesis of dry granulite facies rocks through the influx of CO-rich fluids from sub-lithospheric sources. CO-rich fluid inclusions were also recorded from a number of ultrahigh-temperature granulite facies terranes suggesting the involvement of CO in extreme crustal metamorphism. Some recent studies speculate that CO derived by sub-solidus decarbonation reactions during extreme metamorphism has contributed to the deglaciation of the snowball Earth (Santosh and Omori, 2008).\n\nFourier transform infrared spectroscopy can be used to determine the composition of fluid inclusions.\n\nTrapped bubbles of air and water within fossil amber can be analyzed to provide direct evidence of the climate conditions existing when the resin or tree sap formed. The analysis of these trapped bubbles of air provides a record of atmosphere composition going back 140 million years. The data indicate that the oxygen content of the atmosphere reached a high of nearly 35% during the Cretaceous Period and then plummeted to near present levels during the early Tertiary . The abrupt decline corresponds to or closely follows the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event and may be the result of a major meteorite impact that created the Chicxulub Crater.\n\nAir bubbles trapped within the deep ice caps can also be analyzed for clues to ancient climate conditions.\n\n\n\nSantosh, M., Omori, S., CO windows from mantle to atmosphere: Models on ultrahigh-temperature metamorphism and speculations on the link with melting of snowball Earth. Gondwana Research 14, in press, , 2008.\n"}
{"id": "31877720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31877720", "title": "George Wood (Radio Sweden)", "text": "George Wood (Radio Sweden)\n\nGeorge MacClaren Wood III is an American journalist who has worked at Radio Sweden since 1975, He was born in Berkeley, California on August 10, 1949, and grew up in Piedmont, California. He has degrees from the University of California, Santa Barbara and the University of California, Berkeley, and participated in the university's Education Abroad Program to Lund University in Sweden, 1969-1970.\n\nGeorge Wood began as a freelance reporter at Radio Sweden in 1975. Following the retirement of Arne Skoog in 1978 he told over the writing and presenting of the program Sweden Calling DXers and its successor MediaScan, until the latter was taken off the air in 2001. In 1994 MediaScan became the first radio program in Sweden and the second in Europe (the first in English) to have its audio posted on the Internet.\n\nHe was Radio Sweden's Webmaster since Swedish Radio's first website launched in 1995, while also serving as a journalist for the Radio Swedish English Service. His was one of the voices in the satirical sketches in the program the Saturday Show. He retired from Radio Sweden in August, 2014.\n\nAfter retirement George Wood enrolled in Egyptology courses at Uppsala University.\n\nGeorge Wood was News Director of the university radio station KCSB-FM (at the University of California, Santa Barbara) in 1971-1973, and has also worked at KPFA in Berkeley, California, Earth News Service in San Francisco, and briefly as a freelancer for National Public Radio. Since the late 70's he has been the Stockholm stringer for CBS Radio News. He has written articles for a number of publications including \"Satellite Times\", \"The World Radio TV Handbook\", and the \"New Age Journal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22274460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22274460", "title": "Jackson Prairie", "text": "Jackson Prairie\n\nThe Jackson Prairie is a temperate grassland ecoregion in Mississippi. It is a disjunct of the Blackbelt (or Black Prairie) physiographic area. \n\nThe prairie is a narrow strip across the state from the Mississippi River to the border of Alabama. It is only across at its widest, and generally wide. It runs in a diagonal line from near Jackson in the northwest, through Bienville National Forest and southeast to the Alabama border.\n\nThe contrast between the alkaline soil of the prairies and the acidic soil of the forests causes the sharp delineation in plant types in each region. In the western portion of the prairie, the soil is a brown loess loam over calcareous clay. In hilly areas, the clay is covered by red and yellow sand from the Pliocene epoch. The underlying clay, an identifying component of the Jackson Prairie Belt, shrinks and swells dramatically based on the amount of rainwater. Each cycle adds to the mounds and depressions, building them up over time. \n\nThe prairies depend on periodic outbreaks of fire to keep the forest from overgrowing the prairie.\n\nThe prairie used to support quantities of bobwhite quail (\"Colinus virginianus\"), eastern wild turkey (\"Meleagris gallopavo silvestris\"), and a variety of songbird species.\n\nBecause of the soil and climate, this ecoregion is ideally suited for farming, leading to most of the prairie being converted into farmland and crop agriculture. There are a few remaining sections in the Bienville National Forest, including the largest remaining undisturbed portion at the Harrell Prairie Botanical Area.\n\nThe Grassland Reserve Program of 2002 enabled agencies to purchase conservation easements to protect prairies.\n\n"}
{"id": "17385677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17385677", "title": "James Russell III", "text": "James Russell III\n\nJames M. Russell III is an atmospheric scientist who has served as the developer of instrumentation for several NASA probes. He is currently a professor of Planetary and Atmospheric Sciences and co-director of the Center for Atmospheric research at Hampton University.\n\nRussell received a BSEE degree from Virginia Tech in 1962. He received an MSEE degree from the University of Virginia in 1966 and a Ph.D. in Aeronomy from the University of Michigan in 1970.\n\nIn 1960 Russell and his wife Jenna joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He has served in many callings in the LDS church including Bishop, Stake President and Regional Representative.\n\nRussell led the team that first identified the connection between chlorine and ozone gas depletion.\n\nRussell was the lead investigator connected with a satellite to study ice in part of the Earth's atmosphere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52450775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52450775", "title": "Karkar Geothermal Power Plant", "text": "Karkar Geothermal Power Plant\n\nThe Karkar Geothermal Power Plant (Karkar GTPP) () is a proposed geothermal power plant to be constructed in Armenia. The plant will be the first of its kind in Armenia and will be situated at the Karkar site in the southernmost province of Armenia, Syunik. Initial studies envisage the construction of a 28-30 MW capacity geothermal power plant with an annual electric output of 250 million kilowatt hours (kWh) according to data provided in 2016. The Karkar GTPP will allow for the production of heat to be used in the heating of greenhouses, residential buildings, and industrial sites. Commissioned in 2008-2009, the Karkar GTPP is a unique project in Armenia in that it does not possess an analogue in the region, and positively differs from other energy producing power plants in its renewability of resources, independence from imported energy sources, as well as its minimal environmental impact.\n\nThe Karkar site was selected for exploratory drilling on the basis of field investigations for the prospective sites of Jermaghbyur and Karkar, which were recognized as the most promising by both local and international geothermal experts. In 2006, the World Bank (WB) Energy Invest PIU contracted Ameria CJSC, a professional advisory and insurance services company registered in Armenia to draft a detailed feasibility study for the construction of the Karkar GTPP.\n\nThe study was executed in the framework of a governmental plan aimed at diversifying energy sources in Armenia, and achieving greater independence from foreign imported energy sources. The results of the feasibility study demonstrated the possibility of constructing a flash type geothermal power plant functioning on the basis of 6 production boreholes at 2.5–3 km depth, and 2 boreholes for return flow at 3 km depth with an installed capacity of 25 MW. The necessary investment was estimated in the amount of 17.6 billion AMD, with specific costs per kilowatt of installed capacity at US$1564. At the time of the study, the annual average electricity production was thought to be 199.4 million kWh. That number has today grown to 250 million kWh. The study demonstrated the strategic importance and effectiveness of using geothermal energy in Armenia for the provision of heat supply and the generation of electric power.\n\nThe field investigations at the prospective sites, which included field scoutings, magnetotelluric (MT) sounding and 3D MT studies, along with independent interpretations of the results of these studies, were supported under the Geofund 2: Armenia Geothermal Project financed by the GEF and were completed in 2012.\n\nThe Geothermal Exploratory Drilling Project (GEDP) is a new project consisting of two independent stages, which aim to confirm the suitability of the geothermal resource at the Karkar field for electric power generation. If confirmed, future steps will include involvement of the private sector in the development of a geothermal power plant. Geothermal resources differ from other renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar and hydro in that the commercial exploitability of a geothermal field largely depends on its meeting of certain specific parameters of temperature and pressure. These parameters may be considered with sufficient confidence only upon viable assessment of the results of exploratory drillings.\n\nThe GEDP was implemented with the support of the World Bank. On Monday, 8 June 2016 the World Bank Board of Executive Directors approved a US$8.55 million grant for the realization of the first stage of the project, with Arthur Kochnakyan appointed as the World Bank Task Team Leader for the project. The objective of the Government of Armenia is to construct a geothermal power plant at the Karkar site upon confirmation of the availability of exploitable geothermal resources. With a total potential for geothermal power currently estimated at approximately 150MW, indigenous Armenian geothermal resources have the potential to become an affordable source of base load electricity, in turn contributing to the country's energy security.\n\nInitial exploration consists of drilling of three separate wells 1500 m deep, which will require the use of the US$9 million provided by the Climate Investment Funds and the 2 million AMD supplied by the Government of Armenia. The much-needed involvement of commercial investors for the funding of the resource validation phase of the project has been greatly deterred by a combination of high capital requirements, with drilling costs typically ranging between US$2 and US$5 million per well, highly uncertain results, and the time required for its completion. The R2E2 Fund, a non-profit organization established by the Government of Armenia in 2005 with the specific objective of promoting development of renewable energies and energy efficiency markets in Armenia, will be responsible for the implementation of the project. The Fund has the required capacity and necessary experience in implementing Bank financed projects.\n\nJuly 2016 saw the construction of the first slim well for exploratory purposes. An access road to the Karkar site was previously constructed to allow for the transportation and installation of rig pads required for drilling of the slim well(s), as well as other infrastructures. Should primary drilling yield positive results, a full feasibility study of the area will be completed to provide necessary information regarding the type of geothermal technology to be installed at the site. The feasibility study will also allow for the determination of future economic and financial performance estimates, as well as for helping find solutions to issues ranging from compliance with environmental and social safeguards to legal and regulatory concerns. The contribution of the Government of Armenia to the project is expressed in the form of land provision, support in obtaining all the necessary permits, co-financing of taxes, supporting the construction of transmission lines and the infrastructure demanded at the site, as well as the provision of tax exemptions.\n\nDuring a policy seminar held on 23 September 2016 regarding \"The Challenges of Energy Security in Armenia\", Deputy Minister of Energy Infrastructures and Natural Resources of Armenia, Areg Galstyan, announced that the first results of exploratory drilling of geothermal sources were due in 2016. In a latter interview given on 27 October 2016, the same deputy minister informed journalists of the completion of the appraisal of geothermal resources in the Karkar site with optimistic first results for the survey, particularly with regards to compliance of specific temperature and pressure requirements. A final assessment of the area's geothermal power capacity is to be drafted on the basis of the results obtained upon completion of the exploratory drilling stage.\n\nThe second stage of GEDP envisages the construction phase of the geothermal power station. Initial construction costs of the geothermal power plant are projected to be US$90 million to 110 million, which are to be subsidized by public and private capital (i.e commercial debt and equity) in accordance with a specific financing plan of the Government of Armenia. An international tender is to be announced based on the final results of the exploratory drillings to attract investors for the development of the plant, where priority will be given to the lowest bidder.\n\nIn the event of its construction, the Karkar Geothermal Power Plant is set to occupy an approximate area of 1.5 hectares, which will include piping and parking areas, warehouses and maintenance facilities, a fluid storage house, workers' quarters, and associated facilities pursuant to the building footprint of the future plant. A total of 4 to 10 production and injection wells with casing diameters of 18 5/8 inches at the surface narrowing to 7 inches at 1250 meters are to be drilled and installed to harness the heat of the rocks situated at similar depths. The heat trapped by these rocks reach temperatures of 99 °C at depths of 920 meters, escalating towards 250-300 °C at 2500–3000 meters as demonstrated by the Jermaghbyur borehole data.\n\n"}
{"id": "305401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305401", "title": "La Mancha", "text": "La Mancha\n\nLa Mancha () is a natural and historical region located on an arid but fertile elevated plateau (610 m or 2000 ft.) of central Spain, south of Madrid, from the mountains of Toledo to the western spurs of the hills of Cuenca, and bordered to the south by the Sierra Morena and to the north by the Alcarria region.\nLa Mancha includes portions of the modern provinces of Cuenca, Toledo, and Albacete, and most of the Ciudad Real province. La Mancha historical comarca constitutes the southern portion of Castilla-La Mancha autonomous community and makes up most of the present-day administrative region.\n\nThe name \"La Mancha\" is probably derived from the Arab word المنشا \"al-mansha\", meaning \"the dry land\" or \"wilderness\". The name of the city of Almansa in Albacete also has the same origin. The word \"mancha\" in Spanish literally means \"spot\", \"stain\", or \"patch\", but no apparent link exists between this word and the name of the region.\n\nThe largest plain in Spain, La Mancha is made up of a plateau averaging 500 to 600 metres in altitude (although it reaches 900 metres in Campo de Montiel and other parts), centering on the province of Ciudad Real. The region is watered by the Guadiana, Jabalón, Záncara, Cigüela, and Júcar rivers. \nThe climate is cold semi-arid (Köppen \"BSk\"), with strong fluctuations. Farming (wheat, barley, oats, sugar beets, wine grapes, olives) and cattle raising are the primary economic activities, but they are severely restricted by the harsh environmental conditions.\n\nCulturally, La Mancha includes the Sierra de Alcaraz, northern Sierra Morena, Montes de Toledo and Serranía de Cuenca, parts of Tajo river valley, and it is administratively divided among the comarcas of Campo de Montiel and Campo de ras de Ocaña y Manchuela to the north.\n\nThe inhabitants are called \"Manchegos\".\n\nLa Mancha has always been an important agricultural zone. Viticulture is important in Tomelloso, Alcázar de San Juan, Socuéllamos, Valdepeñas, La Solana and Manzanares, in Ciudad Real and Villarrobledo in Albacete. Other crops include cereals (hence the famous windmills) and saffron. Sheep are raised and bred, providing the famous Manchego cheese, as are goats, including the La Mancha goat, one of the assumed progenitors of the American La Mancha goat.\n\nLa Mancha includes two National Parks, Las Tablas de Daimiel and Cabañeros, and one Natural Park, Las Lagunas de Ruidera.\n\nFamous Spaniards like the cinema directors Pedro Almodóvar and José Luis Cuerda, painters Antonio López and his uncle Antonio López Torres, footballer Andrés Iniesta, music band Angelus Apatrida and actress Sara Montiel were born in La Mancha.\n\nMiguel de Cervantes described La Mancha and its windmills in his novel \"Don Quixote de La Mancha\". Cervantes was making fun of the region, using a pun; a \"mancha\" was also a stain, as on one's honor, and thus an inappropriately-named homeland for a dignified knight-errant. Translator John Ormsby believed that Cervantes chose it because it was the most ordinary, prosaic, anti-romantic, and therefore unlikely place from which a chivalrous, romantic hero could originate, making Quixote seem even more absurd. However, due to the fame of Cervantes' character, the name of La Mancha did become associated worldwide with romantic chivalry.\n\nSeveral film versions of \"Don Quixote\" have actually been filmed largely in La Mancha. However, some, including the 1957 Russian film version, and the screen version of \"Man of La Mancha\", were not. The 1957 film was shot in Crimea, while \"Man of La Mancha\" was filmed in Italy. G.W. Pabst's 1933 version of Cervantes's novel was shot in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. The 2000 made-for-TV \"Don Quixote\", starring John Lithgow as Don Quixote and Bob Hoskins as Sancho Panza, was shot on several locations in Spain, but not in La Mancha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41374494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41374494", "title": "List of Euphorbia species (P–Z)", "text": "List of Euphorbia species (P–Z)\n\n\"Euphorbia\" is a highly diverse plant genus, comprising some 5,000 currently accepted taxa.\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of the \"Euphorbia\" species and notable intraspecific taxa.\n\nThe list includes the former (and never generally accepted) genus \"Chamaesyce\", as well as the related genera \"Elaeophorbia\", \"Endadenium\", \"Monadenium\", \"Synadenium\" and \"Pedilanthus\" which according to recent DNA sequence-based phylogenetic studies are all nested within \"Euphorbia\"\n\nNoticeably succulent plants are marked by (s).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4856307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4856307", "title": "List of Gobiidae genera", "text": "List of Gobiidae genera\n\nThis is a complete list of genera in the fish family Gobiidae, the gobies. There are over 200 in total.\n"}
{"id": "5880002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880002", "title": "List of Hersiliidae species", "text": "List of Hersiliidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Hersiliidae as of Jan. 6, 2017.\n\n\"Bastanius\" \n\n\"Deltshevia\" \n\n\"Duninia\" \n\n\"Hersilia\" \n\n\"Hersiliola\" \n\n\"Iviraiva\" \n\n\"Murricia\" \n\n\"Neotama\" \n\n\"Ovtsharenkoia\" \n\n\"Prima\" \n\n\"Promurricia\" \n\n\"Tama\" \n\n\"Tamopsis\" \n\n\"Tyrotama\" \n\n\"Yabisi\" \n\n\"Ypypuera\" \n\n"}
{"id": "34829705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34829705", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cardiff", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cardiff\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Cardiff Area of Search (AoS).\n\nThis Area of Search was formed from parts of the previous AoS of Mid & South Glamorgan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36815039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36815039", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Rhondda Cynon Taf", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Rhondda Cynon Taf\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the Rhondda Cynon Taf Area of Search (AoS).\n"}
{"id": "51817169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51817169", "title": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2008", "text": "List of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2008\n\nBelow is the list of asteroid close approaches to Earth in 2008.\n\nA list of known near-Earth asteroid close approaches less than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2008.\n\nAn example list of near-Earth asteroids that passed more than 1 lunar distance (384,400 km or 0.00256 AU) from Earth in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "47805031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47805031", "title": "List of bilateral animal orders", "text": "List of bilateral animal orders\n\nList of bilateral animal orders contains the Bilateria of the animal subkingdom Eumetazoa, divided into four superphyla, Deuterostomia, and the three Protostome superphyla, Ecdysozoa, and the two Spiralia superphyla, Platyzoa and Lophotrochozoa.\n\n\nNo order, one genus, one species \"Planctosphaera pelagica\"\n\nNo class, 2 orders, called mud dragons, very common in mud or sand\n\nNo class, one order Nanaloricida\n\n\n\n\n\nThese taxa are only known from the Chengjiang (Cambrian Stage 2 Series 3).\n\n\n\n\n\nNo classes\n\nSome dispute here with Micrognathozoa as the class and Limnognathia as the order\n\nThis phylum was discovered in 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNo classes\n\nNo classes, no orders, families Barentsiidae, Loxokalypodidae, Loxosomatidae, Pedicellinidae\n"}
{"id": "31539170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31539170", "title": "List of companies in the nuclear sector", "text": "List of companies in the nuclear sector\n\nThis is a list of large companies in the nuclear power industry that are active along the nuclear chain, from uranium mining, processing and enrichment, to the actual operating of nuclear power plant and nuclear waste processing.\nThere are many other companies that provide nuclear technologies such as nuclear medicine that are independent of the electrical power generation sector.\n\nOther notable nuclear power groups (some mixed energy) include:\n\n"}
{"id": "46877682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46877682", "title": "List of mountains in Bolivia", "text": "List of mountains in Bolivia\n\n"}
{"id": "1753419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1753419", "title": "List of peaks by prominence", "text": "List of peaks by prominence\n\nThis is a list of mountain peaks ordered by their topographic prominence.\n\nThe prominence of a peak is the minimum height of climb to the summit on any route from a higher peak, or from sea level if there is no higher peak. The lowest point on that route is the col.\n\nFor full definitions and explanations of \"topographic prominence\", \"key col\", and \"parent\", see topographic prominence. In particular, the different definitions of the parent of a peak are addressed at length in that article. \"Height\" on the other hand simply means elevation of the summit above sea level.\n\nRegarding parents, the \"prominence parent\" of peak A can be found by dividing the island or region in question into territories, by tracing the runoff from the key col (mountain pass) of every peak that is more prominent than peak A. The parent is the peak whose territory peak A resides in.\n\nThe \"encirclement parent\" is found by tracing the contour below peak A's key col and picking the highest mountain in that region. This is easier to determine than the prominence parent; however, it tends to give non-intuitive results for peaks with very low cols such as Jabal Shams which is #110 in the list.\n\nNote that either sort of parent of a typical very high-prominence peak such as Denali will lie far away from the peak itself, reflecting the independence of the peak.\n\nMost sources (and the table below) define no parent for island and landmass highpoints; others treat Mount Everest as the parent of every such peak with the ocean as the \"key col\".\n\nIn the table below, where a single parent is listed, the different definitions agree; where two are given, the prominence parent is marked \"\", and the encirclement parent \"²\".\n\nThe following sortable table lists the Earth's 125 most topographically prominent summits. Of these, China has the most: 16. Close behind it are Indonesia, with 13, and the United States with 12.\n\nThe list of peaks that follow is not complete, but the peaks are all notable. Note that island high points (whose prominence is equal to their elevation) can be found at the List of islands by highest point; hence most are not included below. Some well-known peaks listed here do not score highly by prominence.\n\nAll peaks with a prominence of more than 1,500 metres rank as an Ultra. For a complete listing of all 1,524 peaks with prominence greater than this level, see the lists of Ultras.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>.By convention, cols created by human activity are not counted. Therefore, the Suez, Panama and other canals are ignored in these calculations. Cuts that lower the natural elevations of mountain passes are also ignored. Towers, monuments and similar on the peaks are also ignored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2457181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2457181", "title": "List of rivers of Lithuania", "text": "List of rivers of Lithuania\n\nRivers of Lithuania are typical lowland rivers: they are slow, they make meanders, the valleys are wide. Because of abundant precipitation, the river net is dense: on the average 0.99 km of rivers flow in 1 km² of the territory. However, the rivers are not evenly distributed. The highest density is in the Samogitian Highlands where it rains more often and in the northern Lithuania where the soil has clay and it does not allow the water to drain underground. The lowest density is in the southeastern Lithuania where the soil has a lot sand and the rainwater quickly ooze into the underground. \n\nAlmost 70% (some 49,600 km²) of the territory of Lithuania are drained by the Neman River and its tributaries. The other 5 river basins are small and located nears the borders: Mūša-Nemunėlis (Lielupe; 8,976 km²), Venta (5,140 km²), Daugava (1,857 km²), small rivers flowing into the Baltic Sea (2,523 km²) and Pregolya (54 km²). During the winter all rivers freeze over. In the spring almost all rivers flood from melting snow and ice. However, usually only in the Neman River delta the water bursts out of the valley. Nowadays floods are controlled by dams and also due to drainage most rivers have lower water levels than they used to have. In the western Lithuania rivers tend to irregularly flood during the fall because of excessive rains. In the eastern Lithuania rivers tend to discharge a constant amount of water because they are regulated by flow-through lakes and sandy soil, which quickly absorbs any excess rain or snow water. \n\nDuring the Soviet times (1945-1990) rivers suffered a lot of damage because of drainage. Many swamps were drained and now they cannot feed the rivers anymore. Other smaller rivers were straightened and turned into drainage canals.\n\nLithuania counts around 29 thousand watercourses, longer than 0.25 km. The total length of all these watercourses would be around 65,000 km. The number of rivers and rivulets longer than 3 km has been calculated very precisely – 4,418. 758 rivers are longer than 10 km. Lithuania has 21 rivers longer than :\n\nThe Virvyčia (99.7 km) is just shy of the 100 km limit. The length of the Žeimena is an object of discussion; it could be up to 114 km. \n\nNote: length in Lithuania also includes the length of rivers when they serve as borders with neighboring countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48213422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48213422", "title": "List of star systems within 70–75 light-years", "text": "List of star systems within 70–75 light-years\n\nThis is a list of star systems within 70-75 light years of Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "45312963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45312963", "title": "Mount San Cristobal", "text": "Mount San Cristobal\n\nMount San Cristobal is a dormant volcano in Quezon province on the island of Luzon, Philippines. The mountain rises to an elevation of above mean sea level and is one of the volcanic features of Macolod Corridor.\n\nMount San Cristobal is considered the Devil's mountain in Filipino folklore. It is the alter-ego of the Holy Mountain, Mount Banahaw, and is part of Mounts Banahaw–San Cristobal Protected Landscape covering 10,901 hectares (26,940 acres) of land.\n\nThe mountain is bounded by San Pablo, province of Laguna at its northern slope and Dolores, province of Quezon at its southern slope.\n\n"}
{"id": "18740106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18740106", "title": "Mímameiðr", "text": "Mímameiðr\n\nIn Norse mythology, Mímameiðr (Old Norse \"Mimi's tree\") is a tree whose branches stretch over every land, is unharmed by fire or metal, bears fruit that assists pregnant women, and upon whose highest bough roosts the cock Víðópnir. Mímameiðr is solely attested in the Old Norse poem \"Fjölsvinnsmál\". Due to parallels between descriptions of the two, scholars theorize that \"Mímameiðr\" may be another name for the world tree Yggdrasil, and also Hoddmímis holt, a wood within which Líf and Lífthrasir are foretold to take refuge during the events of Ragnarök. \"Mímameiðr\" is sometimes modernly anglicized as Mimameid or Mimameith.\n\nMímameiðr is mentioned in stanzas of the eddic-meter poem \"Fjölsvinnsmál\", where the tree is described as having limbs that stretch over every land, bearing helpful fruit, and as harboring the cock Víðópnir. The first mention occurs when Svipdagr asks Fjölsviðr to tell him what the name of the tree whose branches reach over every land. Fjolsvith responds that:\n\nThis stanza is followed by another where Svipdagr asks Fjölsviðr what grows from the seed of the tree. Fjölsviðr responds that fruit grows from the tree:\n\nIn the notes to his translation of this stanza, Bellows comments this stanza is to be understood as explaining that, when cooked, the fruit of Mímameiðr—which he identifies as Yggdrasil—will assure safe childbirth.\n\nA third mention occurs when Svipdagr tells Fjölsviðr to tell him what the name of the glittering, golden cock is that sits \"on the highest bough\". Fjölsviðr complies, revealing that the cock is named Víðópnir:\n\nScholar Rudolf Simek connects Mímameiðr with Mímisbrunnr (\"Mímir's well\"), which is located beneath one of the three roots of the cosmological tree Yggdrasil. Simek concludes that due to the location of the well, \"Mímameiðr\" is potentially another name for Yggdrasil. In addition, Simek says that Hoddmímis holt (\"Hoard-Mímir's\" holt)—a wood whose name refers to the same figure and wherein Líf and Lífþrasir survive Ragnarök—may also be another name for Yggdrasil, and therefore is likely the same location as Mímameiðr.\n\nScholar John Lindow concurs, noting that if the figures within the location names are the same, then the identification of all the locations as within close vicinity is likely.\n\n"}
{"id": "55199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55199", "title": "Mössbauer effect", "text": "Mössbauer effect\n\nThe Mössbauer effect, or recoilless nuclear resonance fluorescence, is a physical phenomenon discovered by Rudolf Mössbauer in 1958. It involves the resonant and recoil-free emission and absorption of gamma radiation by atomic nuclei bound in a solid. Its main application is in Mössbauer spectroscopy.\n\nIn the Mössbauer effect, a narrow resonance for nuclear gamma emission and absorption results from the momentum of recoil being delivered to a surrounding crystal lattice rather than to the emitting or absorbing nucleus alone. When this occurs, no gamma energy is lost to the kinetic energy of recoiling nuclei at either the emitting or absorbing end of a gamma transition: emission and absorption occur at the same energy, resulting in strong, resonant absorption.\n\nThe emission and absorption of X-rays by gases had been observed previously, and it was expected that a similar phenomenon would be found for gamma rays, which are created by nuclear transitions (as opposed to X-rays, which are typically produced by electronic transitions). However, attempts to observe nuclear resonance produced by gamma-rays in gases failed due to energy being lost to recoil, preventing resonance (the Doppler effect also broadens the gamma-ray spectrum). Mössbauer was able to observe resonance in nuclei of solid iridium, which raised the question of why gamma-ray resonance was possible in solids, but not in gases. Mössbauer proposed that, for the case of atoms bound into a solid, under certain circumstances a fraction of the nuclear events could occur essentially without recoil. He attributed the observed resonance to this recoil-free fraction of nuclear events.\n\nThe Mössbauer effect was one of the last major discoveries in physics to be originally reported in the German language. The first report in English was a letter describing a repetition of the experiment.\n\nThe discovery was rewarded with the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1961 together with Robert Hofstadter's research of electron scattering in atomic nuclei.\n\nThe Mössbauer Effect is a process in which a nucleus emits or absorbs gamma rays without loss of energy to a nuclear recoil. It was discovered by the German physicist Rudolf L. Mössbauer in 1958 and has proved to be remarkably useful for basic research in physics and chemistry. It has been used, for instance, in precisely measuring small energy changes in nuclei, atoms, and crystals induced by electrical, magnetic, or gravitational fields. In a transition of a nucleus from a higher to a lower energy state with accompanying emission of gamma rays, the emission generally causes the nucleus to recoil, and this takes energy from the emitted gamma rays. Thus the gamma rays do not have sufficient energy to excite a target nucleus to be examined. However, Mössbauer discovered that it is possible to have transitions in which the recoil is absorbed by a whole crystal in which the emitting nucleus is bound. Under these circumstances, the energy that goes into the recoil is a negligible portion of the energy of the transition. Therefore, the emitted gamma rays carry virtually all of the energy liberated by the nuclear transition. The gamma rays thus are able to induce a reverse transition, under similar conditions of negligible recoil, in a target nucleus of the same material as the emitter but in a lower energy state. In general, gamma rays are produced by nuclear transitions from an unstable high-energy state to a stable low-energy state. The energy of the emitted gamma ray corresponds to the energy of the nuclear transition, minus an amount of energy that is lost as recoil to the emitting atom. If the lost recoil energy is small compared with the energy linewidth of the nuclear transition, then the gamma ray energy still corresponds to the energy of the nuclear transition, and the gamma ray can be absorbed by a second atom of the same type as the first. This emission and subsequent absorption is called resonant fluorescence. Additional recoil energy is also lost during absorption, so in order for resonance to occur the recoil energy must actually be less than half the linewidth for the corresponding nuclear transition.\n\nThe amount of energy in the recoiling body () can be found from momentum conservation:\n\nwhere is the momentum of the recoiling matter, and the momentum of the gamma ray. Substituting energy into the equation gives:\n\nwhere ( for ) is the energy lost as recoil, is the energy of the gamma ray ( for ), ( for ) is the mass of the emitting or absorbing body, and \"c\" is the speed of light. In the case of a gas the emitting and absorbing bodies are atoms, so the mass is relatively small, resulting in a large recoil energy, which prevents resonance. (Note that the same equation applies for recoil energy losses in x-rays, but the photon energy is much less, resulting in a lower energy loss, which is why gas-phase resonance could be observed with x-rays.)\n\nIn a solid, the nuclei are bound to the lattice and do not recoil in the same way as in a gas. The lattice as a whole recoils but the recoil energy is negligible because the in the above equation is the mass of the whole lattice. However, the energy in a decay can be taken up or supplied by lattice vibrations. The energy of these vibrations is quantised in units known as \"phonons\". The Mössbauer effect occurs because there is a finite probability of a decay occurring involving no phonons. Thus in a fraction of the nuclear events (the recoil-free fraction, given by the Lamb–Mössbauer factor), the entire crystal acts as the recoiling body, and these events are essentially recoil-free. In these cases, since the recoil energy is negligible, the emitted gamma rays have the appropriate energy and resonance can occur.\n\nIn general (depending on the half-life of the decay), gamma rays have very narrow linewidths. This means they are very sensitive to small changes in the energies of nuclear transitions. In fact, gamma rays can be used as a probe to observe the effects of interactions between a nucleus and its electrons and those of its neighbors. This is the basis for Mössbauer spectroscopy, which combines the Mössbauer effect with the Doppler effect to monitor such interactions.\n\nZero-phonon optical transitions, a process closely analogous to the Mössbauer effect, can be observed in lattice-bound chromophores at low temperatures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4564483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4564483", "title": "Olduvai Gorge Museum", "text": "Olduvai Gorge Museum\n\nThe Olduvai Gorge Museum is located in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in Northern Tanzania on the edge of the Olduvai Gorge. The museum was founded by Mary Leakey and is now under the jurisdiction of the Tanzanian government's Department of Cultural Antiquities. It is a museum dedicated to the appreciation and understanding of the Olduvai Gorge and Laetoli fossil sites. \n\nThe Olduvai Gorge Museum was founded by Mary Leakey in the late 1970s. The museum was originally designed to house paleoanthropological artifacts from the surrounding area. The Olduvai Gorge Museum was later after her death put under control of the Tanzanian government's Department of Cultural Antiquities. During the mid-1990s, the J. Paul Getty Museum's Department of Conservation renovated and added to the museum. This included a new wing with exhibitions that were designed by the Getty Museum.\n\nThe Olduvai Gorge Museum is located in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area in Northern Tanzania on the edge of the Olduvai Gorge; directly where the Gorge split into two. It is approximately 5 km from the main road to the Serengeti plains north west of the Ngorongoro Conservation Area.\n\nThe exhibits at the Olduvai Gorge Museum are centered around the paleoanthropological research and artifacts that have come from the surrounding area. There is one hall dedicated to the Leakey family and their pursuit of working at Olduvai Gorge. This hall has historical artifacts from the Olduvai Gorge area as well as charts and maps explaining the process of fossil excavation. Many of the artifacts are original but some are casts (specifically the hominid skulls). The adjacent hall is dedicated solely to the Laetoli fossilized footprints. A cast that was made of part of the footprint trail in 1996 by the J. Paul Getty Museum is on display. Accompanying this are several charts and photographs describing and illustrating the process of the Laetoli Footprints creation. There is also a large illustration depicting three \"Australopithecus afarensis\" walking through the area 3.6 million years ago. In addition to these indoor museum exhibits there are also two outdoor lecture areas. These are utilized for orientation presentations given by museum staff.\n\nThe Olduvai Gorge Museum staff consists of roughly 120 people. The museum has two curators Godfrey Olle Moita Maasai (on site) and Donatius Kamamba (off site Tanzanian Department of Cultural Antiquities). The staff mainly consists of people from the local Maasai tribe. The staff is housed in what was once the Leakey's camp. Some members of the staff have been there since the museum opened and plan to continue working at the museum for as long as possible. They consider themselves the caretakers of Olduvai Gorge.\n\nThere are roughly 150 visitors a day during the peak season in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. During the rainy season (March-August) the attendance can fall to 0 visitors a day. Visitors typically come from the closest city (Arusha) by safari vehicle. They commonly come for lunch and then depart to continue their safari in the Ngorongoro Conservation Area. According to the staff at the museum, visitors have come from all continents and represent most countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24458151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24458151", "title": "Planetary boundaries", "text": "Planetary boundaries\n\nPlanetary boundaries is a concept involving Earth system processes which contain environmental boundaries, proposed in 2009 by a group of Earth system and environmental scientists led by Johan Rockström from the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Will Steffen from the Australian National University. The group wanted to define a \"safe operating space for humanity\" for the international community, including governments at all levels, international organizations, civil society, the scientific community and the private sector, as a precondition for sustainable development. The framework is based on scientific evidence that human actions since the Industrial Revolution have become the main driver of global environmental change. \n\nAccording to the paradigm, \"transgressing one or more planetary boundaries may be deleterious or even catastrophic due to the risk of crossing thresholds that will trigger non-linear, abrupt environmental change within continental-to planetary-scale systems.\" The Earth system process boundaries mark the safe zone for the planet to the extent that they are not crossed. As of 2009, two boundaries have already been crossed, while others are in imminent danger of being crossed.\n\nIn 2009, a group of Earth system and environmental scientists led by Johan Rockström from the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Will Steffen from the Australian National University collaborated with 26 leading academics, including Nobel laureate Paul Crutzen, Goddard Institute for Space Studies climate scientist James Hansen and the German Chancellor's chief climate adviser Hans Joachim Schellnhuber and identified nine \"planetary life support systems\" essential for human survival, attempting to quantify how far seven of these systems had been pushed already. They estimated how much further humans can go before planetary habitability is threatened. \nEstimates indicated that three of these boundaries—climate change, biodiversity loss, and the biogeochemical flow boundary—appear to have been crossed. The boundaries were \"rough, first estimates only, surrounded by large uncertainties and knowledge gaps\" which interact in complex ways that are not yet well understood. Boundaries were defined to help define a \"safe space for human development\", which was an improvement on approaches aiming at minimizing human impacts on the planet. The 2009 report was presented to the General Assembly of the Club of Rome in Amsterdam. An edited summary of the report was published as the featured article in a special 2009 edition of \"Nature\". \nalongside invited critical commentary from leading academics like Nobel laureate Mario J. Molina and biologist Cristián Samper.\n\nIn 2015, a second paper was published in \"Science\" to update the Planetary Boundaries concept and findings were presented at the World Economic Forum in Davos, January 2015.\n\nA 2018 study, co-authored by Rockström, calls into question the international agreement to limit warming to 2 degrees above pre-industrial temperatures set forth in the Paris Agreement. The scientists raise the possibility that even if greenhouse gas emissions are substantially reduced to limit warming to 2 degrees, that might be the \"threshold\" at which self-reinforcing climate feedbacks add additional warming until the climate system stabilizes in a hothouse climate state. This would make parts of the world uninhabitable, raise sea levels by up to , and raise temperatures by to levels that are higher than any interglacial period in the past 1.2 million years. Rockström notes that whether this would occur \"is one of the most existential questions in science.\" Study author Katherine Richardson stresses, \"We note that the Earth has never in its history had a quasi-stable state that is around 2 °C warmer than the preindustrial and suggest that there is substantial risk that the system, itself, will ‘want’ to continue warming because of all of these other processes – even if we stop emissions. This implies not only reducing emissions but much more.”\n\nThe idea that our planet has limits, including the burden placed upon it by human activities, has been around for some time. In 1972, \"The Limits to Growth\" was published. It presented a model in which five variables: world population, industrialization, pollution, food production, and resources depletion, are examined, and considered to grow exponentially, whereas the ability of technology to increase resources availability is only linear. Subsequently, the report was widely dismissed, particularly by economists and businessmen, and it has often been claimed that history has proved the projections to be incorrect. In 2008, Graham Turner from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) published \"A comparison of \"The Limits to Growth\" with thirty years of reality\". Turner found that the observed historical data from 1970 to 2000 closely matches the simulated results of the \"standard run\" limits of growth model for almost all the outputs reported. \"The comparison is well within uncertainty bounds of nearly all the data in terms of both magnitude and the trends over time.\" Turner also examined a number of reports, particularly by economists, which over the years have purported to discredit the limits-to-growth model. Turner says these reports are flawed, and reflect misunderstandings about the model. In 2010, Nørgård, Peet and Ragnarsdóttir called the book a \"pioneering report\", and said that it \"has withstood the test of time and, indeed, has only become more relevant.\"\n\"Our Common Future\" was published in 1987 by United Nations' World Commission on Environment and Development. It tried to recapture the spirit of the Stockholm Conference. Its aim was to interlock the concepts of development and environment for future political discussions. It introduced the famous definition for sustainable development:\n\nOf a different kind is the approach made by James Lovelock. In the 1970s he and microbiologist Lynn Margulis presented the Gaia theory or hypothesis, that states that all organisms and their inorganic surroundings on Earth are integrated into a single self-regulating system. The system has the ability to react to perturbations or deviations, much like a living organism adjusts its regulation mechanisms to accommodate environmental changes such as temperature (homeostasis). Nevertheless, this capacity has limits. For instance, when a living organism is subjected to a temperature that is lower or higher than its living range, it can perish because its regulating mechanism cannot make the necessary adjustments. Similarly the Earth may not be able to react to large deviations in critical parameters. In his book \"The Revenge of Gaia\", he affirms that the destruction of rainforests and biodiversity, compounded with the increase of greenhouse gases made by humans, is producing global warming.\n\nThe Holocene began about 10,000 years ago. It is the current interglacial period, and it has proven to be a relatively stable environment of the Earth. There have been natural environmental fluctuations during the Holocene, but the key atmospheric and biogeochemical parameters have been relatively stable. This stability and resilience has allowed agriculture to develop and complex societies to thrive. According to Rockström \"et al.\", we \"have now become so dependent on those investments for our way of life, and how we have organized society, technologies, and economies around them, that we must take the range within which Earth System processes varied in the Holocene as a scientific reference point for a desirable planetary state.\"\n\nSince the industrial revolution, according to Paul Crutzen, Will Steffen and others, the planet has entered a new epoch, the Anthropocene. In the Anthropocene, humans have become the main agents of change to the Earth system. There have been well publicized scientific warnings about risks in the areas of climate change and stratospheric ozone. However, other biophysical processes are also important. For example, since the advent of the Anthropocene, the rate at which species are being extinguished has increased over 100 times, and humans are now the driving force altering global river flows as well as water vapor flows from the land surface. Continuing pressure on the Earth's biophysical systems from human activities raises concerns that further pressure could be destabilizing, and precipitate sudden or irreversible changes to the environment. According to Rockström et al., \"Up to 30% of all mammal, bird, and amphibian species will be threatened with extinction this century.\" It is difficult to address the issue, because the predominant paradigms of social and economic development are largely indifferent to the looming possibilities of large scale environmental disasters triggered by humans. Legal boundaries can help keep human activities in check, but are only as effective as the political will to make and enforce them.\n\nThresholds and boundaries\n\nThe \"threshold\", or climatological tipping point, is the value at which a very small increment for the control variable (like CO) produces a large, possibly catastrophic, change in the response variable (global warming).\n\nThe threshold points are difficult to locate, because the Earth System is very complex. Instead of defining the threshold value, the study establishes a range, and the threshold is supposed to lie inside it. The lower end of that range is defined as the \"boundary\". Therefore, it defines a safe space, in the sense that as long as we are below the boundary, we are below the threshold value. If the boundary is crossed, we enter into a danger zone.\n\nThe proposed framework lays the groundwork for shifting approach to governance and management, away from the essentially sectoral analyses of limits to growth aimed at minimizing negative externalities, toward the estimation of the safe space for human development. Planetary boundaries define, as it were, the boundaries of the \"planetary playing field\" for humanity if major human-induced environmental change on a global scale is to be avoided\n\nTransgressing one or more planetary boundaries may be highly damaging or even catastrophic, due to the risk of crossing thresholds that trigger non-linear, abrupt environmental change within continental- to planetary-scale systems. The 2009 study identified nine planetary boundaries and, drawing on current scientific understanding, the researchers proposed quantifications for seven of them. These seven are climate change (CO concentration in the atmosphere < 350 ppm and/or a maximum change of +1 W/m in radiative forcing); ocean acidification (mean surface seawater saturation state with respect to aragonite ≥ 80% of pre-industrial levels); stratospheric ozone (less than 5% reduction in total atmospheric O from a pre-industrial level of 290 Dobson Units); biogeochemical nitrogen (N) cycle (limit industrial and agricultural fixation of N to 35 Tg N/yr) and phosphorus (P) cycle (annual P inflow to oceans not to exceed 10 times the natural background weathering of P); global freshwater use (< 4000 km/yr of consumptive use of runoff resources); land system change (< 15% of the ice-free land surface under cropland); and the rate at which biological diversity is lost (annual rate of < 10 extinctions per million species). The two additional planetary boundaries for which the group had not yet been able to determine a boundary level are chemical pollution and atmospheric aerosol loading.\n\nChristopher Field, director of the Carnegie Institution's Department of Global Ecology, is impressed: \"This kind of work is critically important. Overall, this is an impressive attempt to define a safety zone.\" But the conservation biologist Stuart Pimm is not impressed: \"I don’t think this is in any way a useful way of thinking about things... The notion of a single boundary is just devoid of serious content. In what way is an extinction rate 10 times the background rate acceptable?\" and the environmental policy analyst Bill Clark thinks: \"Tipping points in the earth system are dense, unpredictable... and unlikely to be avoidable through early warning indicators. It follows that... 'safe operating spaces' and 'planetary boundaries' are thus highly suspect and potentially the new 'opiates'.\"\n\nThe biogeochemist William Schlesinger queries whether thresholds are a good idea for pollutions at all. He thinks waiting until we near some suggested limit will just permit us to continue to a point where it is too late. \"Management based on thresholds, although attractive in its simplicity, allows pernicious, slow and diffuse degradation to persist nearly indefinitely.\"\n\nThe hydrologist David Molden thinks planetary boundaries are a welcome new approach in the 'limits to growth' debate. \"As a scientific organizing principle, the concept has many strengths ... the numbers are important because they provide targets for policymakers, giving a clear indication of the magnitude and direction of change. They also provide benchmarks and direction for science. As we improve our understanding of Earth processes and complex inter-relationships, these benchmarks can and will be updated ... we now have a tool we can use to help us think more deeply—and urgently—about planetary limits and the critical actions we have to take.\"\n\nThe ocean chemist Peter Brewer queries whether it is \"truly useful to create a list of environmental limits without serious plans for how they may be achieved ... they may become just another stick to beat citizens with. Disruption of the global nitrogen cycle is one clear example: it is likely that a large fraction of people on Earth would not be alive today without the artificial production of fertilizer. How can such ethical and economic issues be matched with a simple call to set limits? ... food is not optional.\"\n\nThe environment advisor Steve Bass says the \"description of planetary boundaries is a sound idea. We need to know how to live within the unusually stable conditions of our present Holocene period and not do anything that causes irreversible environmental change ... Their paper has profound implications for future governance systems, offering some of the 'wiring' needed to link governance of national and global economies with governance of the environment and natural resources. The planetary boundaries concept should enable policymakers to understand more clearly that, like human rights and representative government, environmental change knows no borders.\"\n\nThe climate change policy advisor Adele Morris thinks that price-based policies are also needed to avoid political and economic thresholds. \"Staying within a 'safe operating space' will require staying within all the relevant boundaries, including the electorate’s willingness to pay.\"\n\nIn their report (2012) entitled \"Resilient People, Resilient Planet: A future worth choosing\", The High-level Panel on Global Sustainability called for bold global efforts, \"including launching a major global scientific initiative, to strengthen the interface between science and policy. We must define, through science, what scientists refer to as \"planetary boundaries\", \"environmental thresholds\" and \"tipping points\".\"\n\nIn 2011, at their second meeting, the High-level Panel on Global Sustainability of the United Nations had incorporated the concept of planetary boundaries into their framework, stating that their goal was: \"To eradicate poverty and reduce inequality, make growth inclusive, and production and consumption more sustainable while combating climate change and respecting the range of other planetary boundaries.\"\n\nElsewhere in their proceedings, panel members have expressed reservations about the political effectiveness of using the concept of \"planetary boundaries\": \"Planetary boundaries are still an evolving concept that should be used with caution [...] The planetary boundaries question can be divisive as it can be perceived as a tool of the \"North\" to tell the \"South\" not to follow the resource intensive and environmentally destructive development pathway that rich countries took themselves... This language is unacceptable to most of the developing countries as they fear that an emphasis on boundaries would place unacceptable brakes on poor countries.\"\n\nHowever, the concept is routinely used in the proceedings of the United Nations, and in the \"UN Daily News\". For example, the UNEP Executive Director Achim Steiner states that the challenge of agriculture is to \"feed a growing global population without pushing humanity's footprint beyond planetary boundaries.\" The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Yearbook 2010 also repeated Rockström's message, conceptually linking it with ecosystem management and environmental governance indicators.\n\nThe planetary boundaries concept is also used in proceedings by the European Commission, and was referred to in the European Environment Agency synthesis report \"The European environment – state and outlook 2010\".\n\nRadiative forcing is a measure of the difference between the incoming radiation energy and the outgoing radiation energy acting across the boundary of the earth. Positive radiative forcing results in warming. From the start of the industrial revolution in 1750 to 2005, the increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide has led to a positive radiative forcing, averaging about 1.66 W/m².\n\nThe climate scientist Myles Allen thinks setting \"a limit on long-term atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations merely distracts from the much more immediate challenge of limiting warming to 2 °C.\" He says the concentration of carbon dioxide is not a control variable we can \"meaningfully claim to control\", and he questions whether keeping carbon dioxide levels below 350 ppm will avoid more than 2 °C of warming.\n\nAdele Morris, policy director, Climate and Energy Economics Project, Brookings Institution, makes a criticism from the economical-political point of view. She puts emphasis in choosing policies that minimize costs and preserve consensus. She favors a system of green-house gas emissions tax, and emissions trading, as ways to prevent global warming. She thinks that too-ambitious objectives, like the boundary limit on CO, may discourage such actions.\n\nAccording to the biologist Cristián Samper, a \" boundary that expresses the probability of families of species disappearing over time would better reflect our potential impacts on the future of life on Earth.\"\n\nThe conservation ecologist Gretchen Daily claims that \"it is time to confront the hard truth that traditional approaches to conservation, taken alone, are doomed to fail. Nature reserves are too small, too few, too isolated and too subject to change to support more than a tiny fraction of Earth’s biodiversity. The challenge is to make conservation attractive—from economic and cultural perspectives. We cannot go on treating nature like an all-you-can-eat buffet. We depend on nature for food security, clean water, climate stability, seafood, timber, and other biological and physical services. To maintain these benefits, we need not just remote reserves but places everywhere—more like 'ecosystem service stations.' A few pioneers are integrating conservation and human development. The Costa Rican government is paying landowners for ecosystem services from tropical forests, including carbon offsets, hydropower production, biodiversity conservation and scenic beauty. China is investing $100 billion in \"ecocompensation,\" including innovative policy and finance mechanisms that reward conservation and restoration. The country is also creating \"ecosystem function conservation areas\" that make up 18 percent of its land area. Colombia and South Africa have made dramatic policy changes, too. Three advances would help the rest of the world scale such models of success. One: new science and tools to value and account for natural capital, in biophysical, economic and other terms [...] Two: compelling demonstrations of such tools in resource policy. Three: cooperation among governments, development organizations, corporations and communities to help nations build more durable economies while also maintaining critical ecosystem services.\"\n\nSince the industrial revolution, the Earth's nitrogen cycle has been disturbed even more than the carbon cycle. \"Human activities now convert more nitrogen from the atmosphere into reactive forms than all of the Earth´s terrestrial processes combined. Much of this new reactive nitrogen pollutes waterways and coastal zones, is emitted back to the atmosphere in changed forms, or accumulates in the terrestrial biosphere.\" Only a small part of the fertilizers applied in agriculture is used by plants. Most of the nitrogen and phosphorus ends up in rivers, lakes and the sea, where excess amounts stress aquatic ecosystems. For example, fertilizer which discharges from rivers into the Gulf of Mexico has damaged shrimp fisheries because of hypoxia.\n\nThe biogeochemist William Schlesinger thinks waiting until we near some suggested limit for nitrogen deposition and other pollutions will just permit us to continue to a point where it is too late. He says the boundary suggested for phosphorus is not sustainable, and would exhaust the known phosphorus reserves in less than 200 years.\n\nWith regard to nitrogen, the biogeochemist and ecosystem scientist Robert Howarth says: \"Human activity has greatly altered the flow of nitrogen across the globe. The single largest contributor is fertilizer use. But the burning of fossil fuels actually dominates the problem in some regions, such as the northeastern U.S. The solution in that case is to conserve energy and use it more efficiently. Hybrid vehicles are another excellent fix; their nitrogen emissions are significantly less than traditional vehicles because their engines turn off while the vehicle is stopped. (Emissions from conventional vehicles actually rise when the engine is idling.) Nitrogen emissions from U.S. power plants could be greatly reduced, too, if plants that predate the Clean Air Act and its amendments were required to comply; these plants pollute far out of proportion to the amount of electricity they produce.\n\nIn agriculture, many farmers could use less fertilizer, and the reductions in crop yields would be small or nonexistent. Runoff from corn fields is particularly avoidable because corn’s roots penetrate only the top few inches of soil and assimilate nutrients for only two months of the year. In addition, nitrogen losses can be reduced by 30 percent or more if farmers plant winter cover crops, such as rye or wheat, which can help the soil hold nitrogen. These crops also increase carbon sequestration in soils, mitigating climate change. Better yet is to grow perennial plants such as grasses rather than corn; nitrogen losses are many times lower. Nitrogen pollution from concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs) is a huge problem.\n\nAs recently as the 1970s, most animals were fed local crops, and the animals’ wastes were returned to the fields as fertilizer. Today most U.S. animals are fed crops grown hundreds of miles away, making it “uneconomical” to return the manure. The solution? Require CAFO owners to treat their wastes, just as municipalities must do with human wastes. Further, if we ate less meat, less waste would be generated and less synthetic fertilizer would be needed to grow animal feed. Eating meat from animals that are range-fed on perennial grasses would be ideal. The explosive growth in the production of ethanol as a biofuel is greatly aggravating nitrogen pollution. Several studies have suggested that if mandated U.S. ethanol targets are met, the amount of nitrogen flowing down the Mississippi River and fueling the Gulf of Mexico dead zone may increase by 30 to 40 percent. The best alternative would be to forgo the production of ethanol from corn. If the country wants to rely on biofuels, it should instead grow grasses and trees and burn these to co-generate heat and electricity; nitrogen pollution and greenhouse gas emissions would be much lower.\"\n\nWith regard to phosphorus, the ocean engineer David Vaccari says that the most sustainable environmental flow of phosphorus \"would be the natural flux: seven million metric tons per year (Mt/yr). To hit that mark yet satisfy our usage of 22 Mt/yr, we would have to recycle or reuse 72 percent of our phosphorus [...] The flow could be reduced with existing technologies... [lowering] the loss to waterways from 22 to 8.25 Mt/yr, not very much above the natural flux.\"\n\nPeak phosphorus is a concept to describe the point in time at which the maximum global phosphorus production rate is reached. Phosphorus is a scarce finite resource on earth and means of production other than mining are unavailable because of its non-gaseous environmental cycle. According to some researchers, Earth's phosphorus reserves are expected to be completely depleted in 50–100 years and peak phosphorus to be reached in approximately 2030.\n\nSurface ocean acidity has increased thirty percent since the industrial revolution. About one quarter of the additional carbon dioxide generated by humans is dissolved in the oceans, where it forms carbonic acid. This acidity inhibits the ability of corals, shellfish and plankton to build shells and skeletons. Knock-on effects could have serious consequences for fish stocks. This boundary is clearly interconnected with the climate change boundaries, since the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is also the underlying control variable for the ocean acidification boundary.\n\nThe ocean chemist Peter Brewer thinks \"ocean acidification has impacts other than simple changes in pH, and these may need boundaries too.\"\n\nThe marine chemist Scott Doney thinks \"the main tactics are raising energy efficiency, switching to renewable and nuclear power, protecting forests and exploring carbon sequestration technologies. Regionally, nutrient runoff to coastal waters not only creates dead zones but also amplifies acidification. The excess nutrients cause more phytoplankton to grow, and as they die the added CO2 from their decay acidifies the water. We have to be smarter about how we fertilize fields and lawns and treat livestock manure and sewage ... Locally, acidic water could be buffered with limestone or chemical bases produced electrochemically from seawater and rocks. More practical may be protecting specific shellfish beds and aquaculture fisheries. Larval mollusks such as clams and oysters appear to be more susceptible to acidification than adults, and recycling old clamshells into the mud may help buffer pH and provide better substrate for larval attachment. The drop in ocean pH is expected to accelerate in coming decades, so marine ecosystems will have to adapt. We can enhance their chances for success by reducing other insults such as water pollution and overfishing, making them better able to withstand some acidification while we transition away from a fossil-fuel energy economy.\"\n\nAcross the planet, forests, wetlands and other vegetation types are being converted to agricultural and other land uses, impacting freshwater, carbon and other cycles, and reducing biodiversity.\n\nThe environment advisor Steve Bass says research tells us that \"the sustainability of land use depends less on percentages and more on other factors. For example, the environmental impact of 15 per cent coverage by intensively farmed cropland in large blocks will be significantly different from that of 15 per cent of land farmed in more sustainable ways, integrated into the landscape. The boundary of 15 per cent land-use change is, in practice, a premature policy guideline that dilutes the authors' overall scientific proposition. Instead, the authors might want to consider a limit on soil degradation or soil loss. This would be a more valid and useful indicator of the state of terrestrial health.\"\n\nThe Earth systems scientist Eric Lambin thinks that \"intensive agriculture should be concentrated on land that has the best potential for high-yield crops ... We can avoid losing the best agricultural land by controlling land degradation, freshwater depletion and urban sprawl. This step will require zoning and the adoption of more efficient agricultural practices, especially in developing countries. The need for farmland can be lessened, too, by decreasing waste along the food distribution chain, encouraging slower population growth, ensuring more equitable food distribution worldwide and significantly reducing meat consumption in rich countries.\"\n\nHuman pressures on global freshwater systems are having dramatic effects. The freshwater cycle is another boundary significantly affected by climate change. Freshwater resources, such as lakes and aquifers, are usually renewable resources which naturally recharge (the term fossil water is sometimes used to describe aquifers which don't recharge). Overexploitation occurs if a water resource is mined or extracted at a rate that exceeds the recharge rate. Recharge usually comes from area streams, rivers and lakes. Forests enhance the recharge of aquifers in some locales, although generally forests are a major source of aquifer depletion. Depleted aquifers can become polluted with contaminants such as nitrates, or permanently damaged through subsidence or through saline intrusion from the ocean. This turns much of the world's underground water and lakes into finite resources with peak usage debates similar to oil. Though Hubbert's original analysis did not apply to renewable resources, their overexploitation can result in a Hubbert-like peak. A modified Hubbert curve applies to any resource that can be harvested faster than it can be replaced.\n\nThe hydrologist Peter Gleick comments: \"Few rational observers deny the need for boundaries to freshwater use. More controversial is defining where those limits are or what steps to take to constrain ourselves within them. Another way to describe these boundaries is the concept of peak water. Three different ideas are useful. 'Peak renewable' water limits are the total renewable flows in a watershed. Many of the world's major rivers are already approaching this threshold—when evaporation and consumption surpass natural replenishment from precipitation and other sources. 'Peak nonrenewable' limits apply where human use of water far exceeds natural recharge rates, such as in fossil groundwater basins of the Great Plains, Libya, India, northern China and parts of California's Central Valley. 'Peak ecological' water is the idea that for any hydrological system, increasing withdrawals eventually reach the point where any additional economic benefit of taking the water is outweighed by the additional ecological destruction that causes. Although it is difficult to quantify this point accurately, we have clearly passed the point of peak ecological water in many basins around the world where huge damage has occurred ... The good news is that the potential for savings, without hurting human health or economic productivity, is vast. Improvements in water-use efficiency are possible in every sector. More food can be grown with less water (and less water contamination) by shifting from conventional flood irrigation to drip and precision sprinklers, along with more accurately monitoring and managing soil moisture. Conventional power plants can change from water cooling to dry cooling, and more energy can be generated by sources that use extremely little water, such as photovoltaics and wind.\"\n\nThe hydrologist David Molden says \"a global limit on water consumption is necessary, but the suggested planetary boundary of 4,000 cubic kilometres per year is too generous.\"\n\nThe stratospheric ozone layer protectively filters ultraviolet radiation (UV) from the Sun, which would otherwise damage biological systems. The actions taken after the Montreal Protocol appeared to be keeping the planet within a safe boundary. However, in 2011, according to a paper published in \"Nature\", the boundary was unexpectedly pushed in the Arctic; \"... the fraction of the Arctic vortex in March with total ozone less than 275 Dobson units (DU) is typically near zero, but reached nearly 45%\".\n\nThe Nobel laureate in chemistry, Mario Molina, says \"five per cent is a reasonable limit for acceptable ozone depletion, but it doesn't represent a tipping point\".\n\nThe physicist David Fahey says that as a result of the Montreal Protocol \"stratospheric ozone depletion will largely reverse by 2100. The gain has relied, in part, on intermediate substitutes, notably hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and the growing use of compounds that cause no depletion, such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Ongoing success depends on several steps:\n\"The two panels will also have to evaluate climate change and ozone recovery together. Climate change affects ozone abundance by altering the chemical composition and dynamics of the stratosphere, and compounds such as HCFCs and HFCs are greenhouse gases. For example, the large projected demand for HFCs could significantly contribute to climate change.\"\n\nAerosol particles in the atmosphere impact the health of humans and influence monsoon and global atmospheric circulation systems. Some aerosols produce clouds which cool the Earth by reflecting sunlight back to space, while others, like soot, produce thin clouds in the upper stratosphere which behave like a greenhouse, warming the Earth. On balance, anthropogenic aerosols probably produce a net negative radiative forcing (cooling influence). Worldwide each year, aerosol particles result in about 800,000 premature deaths. Aerosol loading is sufficiently important to be included among the planetary boundaries, but it is not yet clear whether an appropriate safe threshold measure can be identified.\n\nSome chemicals, such as persistent organic pollutants, heavy metals and radionuclides, have potentially irreversible additive and synergic effects on biological organisms, reducing fertility and resulting in permanent genetic damage. Sublethal uptakes are drastically reducing marine bird and mammal populations. This boundary seems important, although it is hard to quantify.\n\nA Bayesian emulator for persistent organic pollutants has been developed which can potentially be used to quantify the boundaries for chemical pollution. To date, critical exposure levels of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) above which mass mortality events of marine mammals are likely to occur, have been proposed as a chemical pollution planetary boundary.\n\nA planetary boundary may interact in a manner that changes the safe operating level of other boundaries. Rockström \"et al.\" 2009 did not analyze such interactions, but they suggested that many of these interactions will reduce rather than expand the proposed boundary levels.\n\nFor example, the land use boundary could shift downward if the freshwater boundary is breached, causing lands to become arid and unavailable for agriculture. At a regional level, water resources may decline in Asia if deforestation continues in the Amazon. Such considerations suggest the need for \"extreme caution in approaching or transgressing any individual planetary boundaries.\"\n\nAnother example has to do with coral reefs and marine ecosystems. In 2009, showed that, since 1990, calcification in the reefs of the Great Barrier that they examined decreased at a rate unprecedented over the last 400 years (14% in less than 20 years). Their evidence suggests that the increasing temperature stress and the declining ocean saturation state of aragonite is making it difficult for reef corals to deposit calcium carbonate. explored how multiple stressors, such as increased nutrient loads and fishing pressure, move corals into less desirable ecosystem states. showed that ocean acidification will significantly change the distribution and abundance of a whole range of marine life, particularly species \"that build skeletons, shells, and tests of biogenic calcium carbonate. \"Increasing temperatures, surface UV radiation levels and ocean acidity all stress marine biota, and the combination of these stresses may well cause perturbations in the abundance and diversity of marine biological systems that go well beyond the effects of a single stressor acting alone.\"\n\nIn 2012 Kate Raworth from Oxfam noted the Rockstrom concept does not take human population growth into account. She suggested social boundaries should be incorporated into the planetary boundary structure, such as jobs, education, food, access to water, health services and energy and to accommodate an environmentally safe space compatible with poverty eradication and \"rights for all\". Within planetary limits and an equitable social foundation lies a doughnut shaped area which is the area where there is a \"safe and just space for humanity to thrive in\".\n\nIn 2012, Steven Running suggested a tenth boundary, the annual net global primary production of all terrestrial plants, as an easily determinable measure integrating many variables that will give \"a clear signal about the health of ecosystems\".\n\nThe United Nations secretary general Ban Ki-moon endorsed the concept of planetary boundaries on 16 March 2012, when he presented the key points of the report of his High Level Panel on Global Sustainability to an informal plenary of the UN General Assembly. Ban stated: \"The Panel’s vision is to eradicate poverty and reduce inequality, to make growth inclusive and production and consumption more sustainable, while combating climate change and respecting a range of other planetary boundaries.\" The concept was incorporated into the so-called \"zero draft\" of the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development to be convened in Rio de Janeiro 20–22 June 2012. However, the use of the concept was subsequently withdrawn from the text of the conference, \"partly due to concerns from some poorer countries that its adoption could lead to the sidelining of poverty reduction and economic development. It is also, say observers, because the idea is simply too new to be officially adopted, and needed to be challenged, weathered and chewed over to test its robustness before standing a chance of being internationally accepted at UN negotiations.\"\n\nThe planetary boundary framework was updated in 2015. It was suggested that three of the boundaries (including climate change) might push the Earth system into a new state if crossed; these also strongly influence the remaining boundaries. In the paper, the framework is developed to make it more applicable at the regional scale.\n\nHuman activities related to agriculture and nutrition globally contribute to the transgression of four out of nine planetary boundaries. Surplus nutrient flows (N, P) into aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems are of highest importance, followed by excessive land-system change and biodiversity loss. Whereas in the case of biodiversity loss, P cycle and land-system change, the transgression is in the zone of uncertainty—indicating an increasing risk (yellow circle in the figure), the N boundary related to agriculture is more than 200% transgressed—indicating a high risk (red marked circle in the figure).\n\n\n\n\n----\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36447476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36447476", "title": "Plasma sheet", "text": "Plasma sheet\n\nIn the magnetosphere, the plasma sheet is a sheet-like region of denser (0.3-0.5 ions/cm versus 0.01-0.02 in the lobes) hot plasma and lower magnetic field near the equatorial plane, between the magnetosphere's north and south lobes.\n\nA magnetosphere is produced by the interaction of a stream of charged particles, such as solar wind, with a planet's (or similar body's) magnetic field. All planets with intrinsic magnetic fields, including Earth, are surrounded by a magnetosphere.\n"}
{"id": "49012757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49012757", "title": "River incision", "text": "River incision\n\nRiver incision is the narrow erosion caused by a river or stream that is far from its base level. River incision is common after tectonic uplift of the landscape. Incision by multiple rivers result in a dissected landscape, for example a dissected plateau. River Incision is the natural process by which a river cuts downward into its bed, deepening the active channel. Though it is a natural process, it can be accelerated rapidly by human factors including land use changes such as timber harvest, mining, agriculture, and road and dam construction. The rate of incision is a function of basal shear-stress. Shear stress is increased by factors such as sediment in the water, which increase its density (Lague, et. al. 2005). Shear stress is defined as , where t= Shear Stress (N/m2), g= Weight Density of Water (N/m3, lb/ft ), D = Average water depth (m, ft), and Sw = Water Surface slope (m/m, ft/ft). Increases in slope, depth, or density of water increase the water’s potential to cause erosion (Lague 2014).\n\nTraditional logging in the West coast of the United States included many practices which increased river incision. Timber removal and the associated road construction facilitate runoff and thus increased erosion and sediment delivery to streams (Wakabayashi 2001). Increases in sediment increases the water’s stream power, increasing the stream’s ability to do geomorphic work on the bed and banks (Yang et. al.1974). This leads to scouring of the bed material, exposing the bedrock channel bed to erosion and thus faster rates of channel incision (Kondolf, et. al. 2002). The scoured bed material consists of finer sediments such as silts, sands, and gravels. The removal of these removes important aquatic habitats for salmonid species and other aquatic organisms (Kondolf 1997). In many agricultural areas, rivers have been straightened and dyked for flood control and to plant crops in the floodplain (Doyle, et al.). Normally, floods are allowed to spread out across the floodplain, allowing deposition of sediment and slowing water speeds, reducing the erosive potential of the water (Heiler, et. al. 1995). Channelization concentrates flood flows down the active channel, increasing erosion. River incision due to agriculture is well-documented throughout the agricultural regions of the world, such as the Central Valley of California (Florsheim, et. al. 2011).\n\nIn-stream gravel mining is also well documented as a cause of river incision. Stable material on the river bed mitigate erosion (Jansen 2006), removing this armoring layer of gravel, boulders, etc. exposes the channel bed to the erosive force of the water. “On the Russian River near Healdsburg, California, instream pit mining in the 1950s and 1960s caused channel incision in excess of 3-6 m over an 11-km length of river” (Kondolf et. al. 2002). \n\nTectonics play an important role in shaping landscapes and rivers, and tectonic uplift and river incision go hand in hand. Over geologic time, as mountains rise higher, water erodes deep gorges and channels, dissecting the landscape. In some instances, such as the Sierra Nevada mountains of California, up to 1 km of incision has been shown to have occurred over the last 5 million years (Lavé 2001). “River erosion is one of the primary agents of landscape evolution. Outside of glaciated regions, rivers are responsible for sculpting uplifted terrain into arborescent valley networks and creating the relief that drives gravitational transport processes such as landsliding” (Tucker, et. al. 2002). Rivers and streams that cross tectonic boundaries are subject to immense geomorphic change. When an area in the path of a river is uplifted, the river must either divert, or slowly incise into the uplifted area, creating a gorge or canyonn(Schumm, et. al. 2002).\n\nAs a channel bed drops, the water in the surrounding aquifer runs into the stream, lowering the water table. This modifies the flow regime of a stream, and can lead to a large reduction in summer flows (Neal 2009). Prolonged incision can lower the water table to the point where the roots of the riparian vegetation can no longer access it for water, causing the death of the riparian forest and thus a loss of soil stability, contributing to increased sedimentation (Lowrance et. al. 1997). Riparian forests are some of the most productive and diverse ecosystems on the planet and are for this reason the focus of many restoration projects throughout the United States.\n\nAt low erosion rates increased stream incision may make gentle slopes to erode creating convex-up forms. Convex slopes around a stream can thus indirectly reflect accelerated crustal uplift. This is because accelerated incision may trigger accelerated erosion on the adjacent slopes creating slopes progressively steeper slopes that are in equilibrium with high erosion rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "24068342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24068342", "title": "Scriptural geologist", "text": "Scriptural geologist\n\nScriptural geologists (or Mosaic geologists) were a heterogeneous group of writers in the early nineteenth century, who claimed \"the primacy of literalistic biblical exegesis\" and a short Young Earth time-scale. Their views were marginalised and ignored by the scientific community of their time. They \"had much the same relationship to 'philosophical' (or scientific) geologists as their indirect descendants, the twentieth-century creationists.\" Paul Wood describes them as \"mostly Anglican evangelicals\" with \"no institutional focus and little sense of commonality\". They generally lacked any background in geology, and had little influence even in church circles.\n\nUp until the end of the 18th century Classical British scholarship was theologically based, using the Bible as a basic source for world history and chronology. Early work in the developing science of geology sought \"theories of the Earth\" combining mechanical physical laws in the natural philosophy of René Descartes with belief in the global flood described in Genesis . The Genesis Flood was given serious consideration as a basis for explaining geological data, and though by 1800 naturalists accepted an old-earth cosmology, this was not an inevitable conclusion among the educated. Amateur and popular geologists continued to use scripture centred geology well into the 19th century.\nIn the 18th century, geologists became convinced that an immense time had been needed to build up the huge thickness of rock strata visible in quarries and cliffs, implying extensive pre-human periods. The concept of Neptunism taught by Abraham Gottlob Werner proposed that rock strata had been deposited from a primeval global ocean rather than by Noah's Flood. Opposing this, James Hutton proposed an indefinitely old cycle of eroded rocks being deposited in the sea, consolidated and heaved up by volcanic forces into mountains which in turn eroded, all in natural processes which continue to operate.\nBy 1807 when the Geological Society of London was founded as the first professional geological society, most of its members accepted a basic geologic time scale, and researchers including William Smith had found that strata could be identified by characteristic fossils.\n\nTheologians sought to reconcile scripture, the book of God's word, with natural history, the book of God's works. Thomas Chalmers (a minister of the Scottish Kirk) popularised Gap creationism (or \"interval\" theory), a form of old Earth creationism that posits that the six-day creation as described in the Book of Genesis involved literal 24-hour days, but that there was a gap of time between two distinct creations in the first and the second verses of Genesis, explaining many scientific observations, including the age of the Earth. Chalmers' suggestion was supported by theological liberals, what Milton Millhauser referred to as the party of \"reconciliation,\" such as Edward Hitchcock, W. D. Conybeare, and the future Cardinal Wiseman. Sharon Turner included it in his children's book \"A Sacred History of the World.\" Millhauser wrote that \"Its prestige was such that the \" interval\" theory presently became almost the official British rival to the continental one that interpreted the Six Days as six creative eras,\" adding his subjective estimate that \"until about 1850, the casual pulpit or periodical assurance that geology does not conflict with revelation was based, in possibly seven instances out of ten, on Chalmers' \"interval\" theory.\"\n\nThe research of Georges Cuvier indicated \"repeated irruptions and retreats of the sea\" which he identified with a long series of sudden catastrophes which had caused extinctions: when this was translated into English in 1813, Robert Jameson added suggestions that the last catastrophe was the biblical Deluge. The Church of England clergyman William Buckland became the foremost proponent of Flood geology, proposing in 1819 that certain surface features were evidence of violent flooding during the Deluge as the last of a series of catastrophes.\n\nHistorian of Religion Arthur McCalla considers that \"All geological work that was taken seriously by experts took for granted the reality of deep time\" and that scriptural geologists were not given \"the slightest credence\" by working geologists. Ralph O'Connor, a history professor at the University of Aberdeen, considers McCalla's views to be an \"overstatement\", and states that \"the 'orthodoxy' of an old-earth cosmology was not there for the taking; it had to be painstakingly constructed, using various performance strategies designed to persuade the literate classes that the new school of geology trumped biblical exegesis in questions about earth history.\"\n\nThe British scriptural geologists' writings came in two waves. The first, in the 1820s, was in response to 'gap theory' and included Granville Penn's \"A Comparative Estimate of the Mineral and Mosaical Geologies\" (1822) and George Bugg's \"Scriptural Geology\" (1826). Realizing that the majority opinion was slipping away from scriptural geology, their zeal increased. While the period from 1815-1830 represents the incubation of the movement, 1830 to 1844 marks its most intense and significant activity. This was largely in response to Charles Lyell's \"Principles of Geology\" and Buckland's Bridgewater Treatise, \"Geology and Mineralogy considered with reference to Natural Theology\", which retracted his earlier ideas that flood geology had found evidence of a universal flood. Responses included George Fairholme's \"General View of the Geology of Scripture\" (1833) and \"The Mosaic Deluge\" (1837).\n\nO'Connor wrote of the times that, \"Although secularization in various forms was on the ascendant among the upper and upper-middle classes, the Bible was still the most important book in early nineteenth-century British cultural life. Although liberalizing churchmen were busily instructing people that the Bible was not intended to teach facts about the natural world, the text of Genesis 1 appeared on the face of it to suggest otherwise, with its bald statements of what had been created when. For all but a growing minority, the Bible remained a vital touchstone for speculation about the natural world; conversely, any thoughtful reading of the first few chapters of Genesis necessarily involved reflections about the natural world.\"\n\nProfessor of intellectual history David N. Livingstone states that scriptural geologists \"were not, as it turns out, geologists at all\", concluding that \"while it may be proper to speak of Scriptural \"Geology\", it is not really accurate to speak of Scriptural \"Geologists\".\" L. Piccardi and W. Bruce Masse state that \"[a]part from George Young, none of these scriptural geologists had any geological competence\". David Clifford states that they were \"not themselves geologists\" but rather \"keen but biased amateurs\" and that one of them, James Mellor Brown, \"felt that no scientific expertise was required when examining scientific matters.\" Taking a more positive view, Milton Millhauser states that the leaders of the party were \"by no means ignorant of the science [they] assailed.\"\n\nO'Connor argues that terminology in the 21st-century is a stumbling-block to modern analysis of geologic competence of the scriptural geologists because science today is understood in the language of Lyell and Darwin rather than that of Penn and Fairholme. Scriptural geologists saw themselves as 'geologists' (in the early 19th-century understanding of the term) and valued geologic fieldwork. Biblical exegesis, too, was central to science in general and earth history in particular. For the educated of the early 19th-century the Bible was itself valuable evidence. Evidence does not speak for itself, but requires interpretation. A heap of strata, or a line of Hebrew, is interpreted in various ways. To use the words 'geology' or 'science' in the 21st century sense automatically excludes Scriptural geologist perspectives on this debate, and skews the discussion from the start.\n\nThey have been described as \"genteel laymen ... versed in polite literature; clergymen, linguists, and antiquaries—those, in general, with vested interests in mediating the meaning of books, rather than rocks, in churches and classrooms\", although a number of them were involved in fossil collecting or scientific endeavours. However, for the majority, geology was not their main scientific interest, but rather a transient or peripheral concern.\n\n\n\n\nA number of modern historians have \"rounded on scriptural geologists as simplistic fundamentalists who defended an untenable and anti-scientific worldview\". Historian of science Charles Gillispie chastised a number of them as \"men of the lunatic fringe, like Granville Penn, John Faber, Andrew Ure, and George Fairholme, [who] got out their fantastic geologies and natural histories, a literature which enjoyed surprising vogue, but which is too absurd to disinter\". Gillispie describes their views, along with their \"reasonably respectable\" colleagues (such as Edward Bouverie Pusey and William Cockburn, Dean of York), as clerical \"fulminations against science in general and all its works\", and listed the works of Cockburn and Fairholme as among \"clerical attacks on geology and uninformed attempts to frame theoretical systems reconciling the geological and scriptural records.\" Martin J. S. Rudwick initially dismissed them as mere 'dogmatic irritants', but later discerned a couple of points of consilience: a concern with time and sequence; and an adoption of the pictorial conventions of some scriptural geologists by the mainstream.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "845028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845028", "title": "Selkie", "text": "Selkie\n\nSelkies (also spelled \"silkies\", \"sylkies\", \"selchies\") or Selkie folk () meaning \"Seal Folk\" are mythological beings capable of therianthropy, changing from seal to human form by shedding their skin.\n\nThese selkie folk are recounted in Scottish folklore, sourced mainly from Orkney and Shetland.\n\nThe folk-tales frequently revolve around female selkies being coerced into relationships with humans by someone stealing and hiding their sealskin, thus exhibiting the tale motif of the swan maiden type.\n\nWhile \"selkies\" is the proper term for such shapeshifters according to an Orcadian folklorist, treatises on Shetland refer to them merely as mermen or merwomen.\n\nThere are counterparts in Faroese and Icelandic folklore that speak of seal-women and seal-skin. In some instances the Irish mermaid (merrow) is regarded as a half-seal, half-human being.\n\nThe Scots word ' is diminutive for ' which strictly speaking means \"grey seal\" (\"Halichoerus grypus\"). Alternate spellings for the diminutive include: selky, seilkie, sejlki, silkie, silkey, saelkie, sylkie, etc.\n\nThe term \"selkie\" according to Alan Bruford should be treated as meaning any seal with or without the implication of transformation into human form.\n\nW. Traill Dennison insisted \"selkie\" was the correct term to be applied to these shapeshifters, to be distinguished from the merfolk, and that Samuel Hibbert committed an error in referring to them as \"mermen\" and \"mermaids\". However, when other Norse cultures are examined, Icelandic writers also refer to the seal-wives as merfolk ().\n\nThere also seems to be some conflation between the selkie and finfolk. This confounding only existed in Shetland, claimed Dennison, and that in Orkney the selkie are distinguished from the finfolk, and the selkies' abode undersea is not \"Finfolk-a-heem\"; this notion, although seconded by Ernest Marwick, has been challenged by Bruford.\n\nThere is further confusion with the Norse concept of the Finns as shapeshifters, \"Finns\" (synonymous with finfolk) being the Shetlandic name for dwellers of the sea who could remove their seal-skin and transform into humans according to one native correspondent.\n\nIn Gaelic stories, specific terms for selkies are rarely used. They are seldom differentiated from mermaids. They are most commonly referred to as \"maighdeann-mhara\" in Scottish Gaelic, \"maighdean mhara\" in Irish, and \"moidyn varrey\" in Manx (\"maiden of the sea\" i.e. mermaids) and clearly have the seal-like attributes of selkies. The only term which specifically refers to a selkie but which is only rarely encountered is \"maighdeann-ròin\", or \"seal maiden\".\n\nMany of the folk-tales on selkie folk have been collected from the Northern Isles (Orkney and Shetland).\n\nIn Orkney lore, \"selkie\" is said to denote various seals of greater size than the grey seal; only these large seals are credited with the ability to shapeshift into humans, and are called \"selkie folk\". Something similar is stated in Shetland tradition, that the mermen and mermaids prefer to assume the shape of larger seals, referred to as \"Haaf-fish\".\n\nA typical folk-tale is that of a man who steals a female selkie's skin, finds her naked on the sea shore, and compels her to become his wife. But the wife will spend her time in captivity longing for the sea, her true home, and will often be seen gazing longingly at the ocean. She may bear several children by her human husband, but once she discovers her skin, she will immediately return to the sea and abandon the children she loved. Sometimes, one of her children discovers or knows the whereabouts of the skin. Sometimes it is revealed she already had a first husband from her own kind. Although in some children's story versions, the selkie revisits her family on land once a year, in the typical folktale she is never seen again by them.\nSometimes the human will not know that their lover is a selkie, and wakes to find them returned to their seal form. In one version, the selkie wife was never seen again (at least in human form) by the family, but the children would witness a large seal approach them and \"greet\" them plaintively.\n\nMale selkies are described as being very handsome in their human form, and having great seductive powers over human women. They typically seek those who are dissatisfied with their lives, such as married women waiting for their fishermen husbands. In one popular tattletale version about a certain \"Ursilla\" of Orkney (a pseudonym), it was rumored that when she wished to make contact with her male selkie would shed seven tears into the sea.\n\nChildren born between man and seal-folk may have webbed hands, as in the case of the Shetland mermaid whose children had a \"a sort of web between their fingers\", or \"Ursilla\" rumored to have children sired by a male selkie, such that the children had to have the webbing between their fingers and toes made of horny material clipped away intermittently. Some of the descendants actually did have these hereditary traits, according to Walter Traill Dennison who was related to the family.\n\nSome legends say that selkies could turn human every so often when the conditions of the tides were correct, but oral storytellers disagreed as to the time interval. In Ursilla's rumor, the contacted male selkie promised to visit her at the \"seventh stream\" or springtide. In the ballad \"The Great Silkie of Sule Skerry\", the seal-husband promised to return in seven years; the number \"seven\" being commonplace in balladry.\n\nAccording to one version, the selkie could only assume human form once every seven years because they are bodies that house condemned souls. There is the notion that they are either humans who had committed sinful wrongdoing, or fallen angels.\n\nThe selkie-wife tale had its version for practically every island of Orkney according to W. Traill Dennison. In his study, he included a version collected from a resident of North Ronaldsay, in which a \"goodman of Wastness\", a confirmed bachelor, falls in love with a damsel among the selkie-folk, whose skin he captures. She searches the house in his absence, and finds her seal-skin thanks to her youngest daughter who had once seen it being hidden under the roof.\n\nIn \"Selkie Wife\", a version from Deerness on the Mainland, Orkney, the husband locked away the seal-skin in a sea-kist (chest) and hid the key, but the seal woman is said to have acquiesced to the concealment, saying it was \"better tae keep her selkie days oot o' her mind\". However, when she discovered her skin, she departed hastily leaving her clothes all scattered about.\n\nA fisherman named Alick supposedly gained a wife by stealing the seal-skin of a selkie, in a tale told by an Orkney skipper. The Alick in the tale is given as a good acquaintance of the father of the storyteller, John Heddle of Stromness.\n\nA version of the tale about the mermaid compelled to become wife to a human who steals her seal-skin, localized in Unst, was published by Samuel Hibbert in 1822. She already had a husband of her own kind in her case.\n\nSome stories from Shetland have selkies luring islanders into the sea at midsummer, the lovelorn humans never returning to dry land.\n\nIn the Shetland, the sea-folk were believed to revert to human shape and breathed air in the atmosphere in the submarine homeland, but with their sea-dress (seal-skin) they had the ability to transform into seals to make transit from there to the reefs above the sea. However, each skin was unique and irreplaceable.\n\nIn the tale of \"Gioga's Son\", a group of seals resting in the Ve Skerries were ambushed and skinned by Papa Stour fishermen, but as these were actually seal-folk, the spilling of the blood caused a surge in seawater, and one fisherman was left abandoned. The seal-folk victims recovered in human-like form, but lamented the loss of their skin without which they could not return to their submarine home. Ollavitinus was particularly distressed since he was now separated from his wife; however, his mother Gioga struck a bargain with the abandoned seaman, offering to carrying him back to Papa Stour on condition the skin would be returned. In a different telling of the same plot line, the stranded man is called Herman Perk, while the rescuing selkie's name is unidentified.\n\nTales of the seal bride type has been assigned the number ML 4080 under Reidar Thoralf Christiansen's system of classification of migratory folktales. These stories of selkie-wives are also recognized to be of the swan maiden motif type. There are now hundreds of seal bride type tales that have been found from Ireland to Iceland. Only one specimen was found in Norway by Christiansen.\n\nIn the Faroe Islands there are analogous beliefs in seal-folk and seal-women also.\n\nSeal shapeshifters similar to the selkie exist in the folklore of many cultures. A corresponding creature existed in Swedish legend, and the Chinook people of North America have a similar tale of a boy who changes into a seal.\n\nThe folk-tale \"Selshamurinn\" (\"The Seal-Skin\") published by Jón Árnason offers an Icelandic analogue of the selkie folk tale. The tale relates how a man from Mýrdalur forced a woman transformed from a seal to marry him after taking possession of her seal-skin. She discovers the key to the chest in her husband's usual clothes when he dresses up for a Christmas outing, and the seal woman is reunited with the male seal who was her betrothed partner.\n\nAnother such tale was recorded by Jón Guðmundsson the Learned (in 1641), and according to him these seal folk were sea-dwelling elves called \"marmennlar\" (mermen and mermaids).\n\nIn the Faroe Islands there are two versions of the story of the 'seal wife'. A young farmer from the town of Mikladalur on Kalsoy island goes to the beach to watch the selkies dance. He hides the skin of a beautiful selkie maid so she cannot go back to sea, and forces her to marry him. He keeps her skin in a chest, and keeps the key with him both day and night. One day when out fishing, he discovers that he has forgotten to bring his key. When he returns home, the selkie wife has escaped back to sea, leaving their children behind. Later, when the farmer is out on a hunt, he kills both her selkie husband and two selkie sons, and she promises to take revenge upon the men of Mikladalur. Some shall be drowned, some shall fall from cliffs and slopes, and this shall continue, until so many men have been lost that they will be able to link arms around the whole island of Kalsoy. There are still occasional deaths occurring in this way on the island.\n\n\"Peter Kagan and the Wind\" by Gordon Bok tells of the fisherman Kagan who married a seal-woman. Against his wife's wishes he set sail dangerously late in the year, and was trapped battling a terrible storm, unable to return home. His wife shifted to her seal form and saved him, even though this meant she could never return to her human body and hence her happy home.\n\nThe mermaid in Irish folkore (sometimes called \"merrow\" in Hiberno-English) have been regarded as a seal-woman in some instances. In a certain collection of lore in County Kerry, there is an onomastic tale in Tralee which claimed the Lee family was descended from a man who took a \"murdúch\" (mermaid) for a wife; she later escaped and joined her seal-husband, suggesting she was of the seal-folk kind.\n\nThere is also the tradition that the Conneely clan of Connemara was descended from seals, and it was taboo for them to kill the animals lest it bring ill luck. And since \"conneely\" became a moniker of the animal, many changed their surname to Connelly. It is also mentioned in this connection that there is a Roaninish (\"Rón-inis\", \"seal island\") off Donegal, outside Gweebarra Bay.\n\nBefore the advent of modern medicine, many physiological conditions were untreatable. When children were born with abnormalities, it was common to blame the fairies. The MacCodrum clan of the Outer Hebrides became known as the \"MacCodrums of the seals\" as they claimed to be descended from a union between a fisherman and a selkie. This was an explanation for their syndactyly – a hereditary growth of skin between their fingers that made their hands resemble flippers.\n\nScottish folklorist and antiquarian, David MacRitchie believed that early settlers in Scotland probably encountered, and even married, Finnish and Sami women who were misidentified as selkies because of their sealskin kayaks and clothing. Others have suggested that the traditions concerning the selkies may have been due to misinterpreted sightings of Finn-men (Inuit from the Davis Strait). The Inuit wore clothes and used kayaks that were both made of animal skins. Both the clothes and kayaks would lose buoyancy when saturated and would need to be dried out. It is thought that sightings of Inuit divesting themselves of their clothing or lying next to the skins on the rocks could have led to the belief in their ability to change from a seal to a man.\n\nAnother belief is that shipwrecked Spaniards were washed ashore, and their jet black hair resembled seals. As the anthropologist A. Asbjørn Jøn has recognised, though, there is a strong body of lore that indicates that selkies \"are said to be supernaturally formed from the souls of drowned people\".\n\nScottish poet George Mackay Brown wrote a modern prose version of the story, entitled \"Sealskin\".\n\nSelkies—or references to them—have appeared in numerous novels, songs and films, though the extent to which these reflect traditional stories varies greatly. Work where selkie lore forms the central theme include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22761649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22761649", "title": "Shot heard round the world", "text": "Shot heard round the world\n\n\"The shot heard round the world\" is a phrase referring to several historical incidents, particularly the opening of the American Revolutionary War in 1775 and the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914.\n\nThe phrase comes from the opening stanza of Ralph Waldo Emerson's \"Concord Hymn\" (1837) and refers to the first shot of the American Revolution at the Old North Bridge in Concord, Massachusetts, where the first British soldiers fell in the battles of Lexington and Concord. Historically, no single shot can be cited as the first shot of the battle or the war. Shots were fired earlier at Lexington, Massachusetts where eight Americans were killed and a British soldier was slightly wounded, but accounts of that event are confused and contradictory. The North Bridge skirmish did see the first shots by Americans acting under orders, the first organized volley by Americans, the first British fatalities, and the first British retreat.\n\nThe towns of Lexington and Concord have debated over the point of origin for the Revolutionary War since 1824, when the Marquis de Lafayette visited the towns. He was welcomed to Lexington hearing it described as the \"birthplace of American liberty\", but he was then informed in Concord that the \"first forcible resistance\" was made there. President Ulysses Grant considered not attending the 1875 centennial celebrations in the area to evade the issue. In 1894, Lexington petitioned the state legislature to proclaim April 19 as \"Lexington Day\", to which Concord objected; the current name for the holiday is Patriots' Day.\n\nEmerson lived in a house known as the Old Manse at the time when he was composing the \"Concord Hymn,\" from which his grandfather and father (then a young child) had witnessed the skirmish. The house is located approximately from the North Bridge.\n\nThe phrase \"shot heard round the world\" (alternatively \"shots heard round the world\" or \"shot heard around the world\") has also become associated with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria in Sarajevo on 28 June 1914, an event considered to be one of the immediate causes of World War I. Serbian Gavrilo Princip fired two shots, the first hitting Franz Ferdinand's wife Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, and the second hitting the Archduke himself. The death of Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austro-Hungarian throne, propelled Austria-Hungary and the rest of Europe into World War I.\n\nThe phrase \"Shot heard round the world\" continues to be a stock phrase in the 21st century, widely used to refer to extraordinary events in general. The phrase has been applied to several dramatic moments in sports history, for example. In baseball, the \"Shot Heard 'Round the World\" refers to the game-winning walk-off home run by New York Giants outfielder Bobby Thomson off Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Ralph Branca to win the National League pennant on October 3, 1951. The Giants won the game 5-4 as a result of the home run, defeating their traditional rivals in the pennant playoff series, although they eventually lost the World Series to the Yankees.\n"}
{"id": "53662959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53662959", "title": "The Book of Eggs", "text": "The Book of Eggs\n\nThe Book of Eggs: A Life-Size Guide to the Eggs of Six Hundred of the World's Bird Species is a book detailing the eggs of approximately 600 birds authored by Mark Hauber. It has received positive reviews, although it has been criticized for having a North American bias.\n"}
{"id": "133260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=133260", "title": "Uluru", "text": "Uluru\n\nUluru (, Pitjantjatjara: '), also known as Ayers Rock () and officially gazetted as \"UluruAyers Rock\", is a large sandstone rock formation in the southern part of the Northern Territory in central Australia. It lies south west of the nearest large town, Alice Springs, by road.\n\nUluru is sacred to the Pitjantjatjara Anangu, the Aboriginal people of the area. The area around the formation is home to an abundance of springs, waterholes, rock caves and ancient paintings. Uluru is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Uluru and Kata Tjuta, also known as the Olgas, are the two major features of the Uluṟu-Kata Tjuṯa National Park.\n\nThe local Anangu, the Pitjantjatjara people, call the landmark \"Uluṟu\" (). This word is a proper noun, with no further particular meaning in the Pitjantjatjara dialect, although it is used as a local family name by the senior Traditional Owners of Uluru.\n\nOn 19 July 1873, the surveyor William Gosse sighted the landmark and named it Ayers Rock in honour of the then Chief Secretary of South Australia, Sir Henry Ayers. Since then, both names have been used.\n\nIn 1993, a dual naming policy was adopted that allowed official names that consist of both the traditional Aboriginal name and the English name. On 15 December 1993, it was renamed \"Ayers Rock / Uluru\" and became the first official dual-named feature in the Northern Territory. The order of the dual names was officially reversed to \"Uluru / Ayers Rock\" on 6 November 2002 following a request from the Regional Tourism Association in Alice Springs.\n\nUluru is one of Australia's most recognisable natural landmarks. The sandstone formation stands high, rising above sea level with most of its bulk lying underground, and has a total circumference of . Both Uluru and the nearby Kata Tjuta formation have great cultural significance for the Aṉangu people, the traditional inhabitants of the area, who lead walking tours to inform visitors about the local flora and fauna, bush food and the Aboriginal dreamtime stories of the area.\n\nUluru is notable for appearing to change colour at different times of the day and year, most notably when it glows red at dawn and sunset.\n\nKata Tjuta, also called Mount Olga or the Olgas, lies west of Uluru. Special viewing areas with road access and parking have been constructed to give tourists the best views of both sites at dawn and dusk.\n\nUluru is an inselberg, literally \"island mountain\". An inselberg is a prominent isolated residual knob or hill that rises abruptly from and is surrounded by extensive and relatively flat erosion lowlands in a hot, dry region. Uluru is also often referred to as a monolith, although this is a somewhat ambiguous term that is generally avoided by geologists. The remarkable feature of Uluru is its homogeneity and lack of jointing and parting at bedding surfaces, leading to the lack of development of scree slopes and soil. These characteristics led to its survival, while the surrounding rocks were eroded. For the purpose of mapping and describing the geological history of the area, geologists refer to the rock strata making up Uluru as the Mutitjulu Arkose, and it is one of many sedimentary formations filling the Amadeus Basin.\n\nUluru is dominantly composed of coarse-grained arkose (a type of sandstone characterized by an abundance of feldspar) and some conglomerate. Average composition is 50% feldspar, 25–35% quartz and up to 25% rock fragments; most feldspar is K-feldspar with only minor plagioclase as subrounded grains and highly altered inclusions within K-feldspar. The grains are typically in diameter, and are angular to subangular; the finer sandstone is well sorted, with sorting decreasing with increasing grain size. The rock fragments include subrounded basalt, invariably replaced to various degrees by chlorite and epidote. The minerals present suggest derivation from a predominantly granite source, similar to the Musgrave Block exposed to the south. When relatively fresh, the rock has a grey colour, but weathering of iron-bearing minerals by the process of oxidation gives the outer surface layer of rock a red-brown rusty colour. Features related to deposition of the sediment include cross-bedding and ripples, analysis of which indicated deposition from broad shallow high energy fluvial channels and sheet flooding, typical of alluvial fans.\n\nThe Mutitjulu Arkose is believed to be of about the same age as the conglomerate at Kata Tjuta, and to have a similar origin despite the rock type being different, but it is younger than the rocks exposed to the east at Mount Conner, and unrelated to them. The strata at Uluru are nearly vertical, dipping to the south west at 85°, and have an exposed thickness of at least . The strata dip below the surrounding plain and no doubt extend well beyond Uluru in the subsurface, but the extent is not known.\n\nThe rock was originally sand, deposited as part of an extensive alluvial fan that extended out from the ancestors of the Musgrave, Mann and Petermann Ranges to the south and west, but separate from a nearby fan that deposited the sand, pebbles and cobbles that now make up Kata Tjuta.\n\nThe similar mineral composition of the Mutitjulu Arkose and the granite ranges to the south is now explained. The ancestors of the ranges to the south were once much larger than the eroded remnants we see today. They were thrust up during a mountain building episode referred to as the Petermann Orogeny that took place in late Neoproterozoic to early Cambrian times (550–530 Ma), and thus the Mutitjulu Arkose is believed to have been deposited at about the same time.\n\nThe arkose sandstone which makes up the formation is composed of grains that show little sorting based on grain size, exhibit very little rounding and the feldspars in the rock are relatively fresh in appearance. This lack of sorting and grain rounding is typical of arkosic sandstones and is indicative of relatively rapid erosion from the granites of the growing mountains to the south. The layers of sand were nearly horizontal when deposited, but were tilted to their near vertical position during a later episode of mountain building, possibly the Alice Springs Orogeny of Palaeozoic age (400–300 Ma).\n\nHistorically, 46 species of native mammals are known to have been living near Uluru; according to recent surveys there are currently 21. Aṉangu acknowledge that a decrease in the number has implications for the condition and health of the landscape. Moves are supported for the reintroduction of locally extinct animals such as malleefowl, common brushtail possum, rufous hare-wallaby or mala, bilby, burrowing bettong, and the black-flanked rock-wallaby.\n\nThe mulgara, the only mammal listed as vulnerable, is mostly restricted to the transitional sand plain area, a narrow band of country that stretches from the vicinity of Uluru to the northern boundary of the park and into Ayers Rock Resort. This area also contains the marsupial mole, woma python, and great desert skink.\n\nThe bat population of the park comprises at least seven species that depend on day roosting sites within caves and crevices of Uluru and Kata Tjuta. Most of the bats forage for aerial prey within or so from the rock face. The park has a very rich reptile fauna of high conservation significance, with 73 species having been reliably recorded. Four species of frogs are abundant at the base of Uluru and Kata Tjuta following summer rains. The great desert skink is listed as vulnerable.\n\nAṉangu continue to hunt and gather animal species in remote areas of the park and on Aṉangu land elsewhere. Hunting is largely confined to the red kangaroo, bush turkey, emu, and lizards such as the sand goanna and perentie.\n\nOf the 27 mammal species found in the park, six are introduced: the house mouse, camel, fox, cat, dog, and rabbit. These species are distributed throughout the park, but their densities are greatest near the rich water run-off areas of Uluru and Kata Tjuta.\n\nUluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park flora represents a large portion of plants found in Central Australia. A number of these species are considered rare and restricted in the park or the immediate region. Many rare and endemic plants are found in the park.\n\nThe growth and reproduction of plant communities rely on irregular rainfall. Some plants are able to survive fire and some are dependent on it to reproduce. Plants are an important part of \"Tjukurpa\", and ceremonies are held for each of the major plant foods. Many plants are associated with ancestral beings.\n\nFlora in Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park can be broken into these categories:\n\nTrees such as the mulga and centralian bloodwood are used to make tools such as spearheads, boomerangs, and bowls. The red sap of the bloodwood is used as a disinfectant and an inhalant for coughs and colds.\n\nSeveral rare and endangered species are found in the park. Most of them, like adder's tongue ferns, are restricted to the moist areas at the base of the formation, which are areas of high visitor use and subject to erosion.\n\nSince the first Europeans arrived, 34 exotic plant species have been recorded in the park, representing about 6.4% of the total park flora. Some, such as perennial buffel grass (\"Cenchrus ciliaris\"), were introduced to rehabilitate areas damaged by erosion. It is the most threatening weed in the park and has spread to invade water- and nutrient-rich drainage lines. A few others, such as burrgrass, were brought in accidentally, carried on cars and people.\n\nThe park has a hot desert climate and receives an average rainfall of per year. The average high temperature in summer (December–January) is , and the average low temperature in winter (June–July) is . Temperature extremes in the park have been recorded at during the summer and during winter. UV levels are extreme between October and March, averaging between 11 and 15 on the UV index.\n\nLocal Aboriginal people recognise five seasons:\n\nAccording to the Aṉangu, traditional landowners of Uluru:\n\nThere are a number of differing accounts given, by outsiders, of Aboriginal ancestral stories for the origins of Uluru and its many cracks and fissures. One such account, taken from Robert Layton's (1989) \"Uluru: An Aboriginal history of Ayers Rock\", reads as follows:\n\nTwo other accounts are given in Norbert Brockman's (1997) \"Encyclopedia of Sacred Places\". The first tells of serpent beings who waged many wars around Uluru, scarring the rock. The second tells of two tribes of ancestral spirits who were invited to a feast, but were distracted by the beautiful Sleepy Lizard Women and did not show up. In response, the angry hosts sang evil into a mud sculpture that came to life as the dingo. There followed a great battle, which ended in the deaths of the leaders of both tribes. The earth itself rose up in grief at the bloodshed, becoming Uluru.\n\nThe Commonwealth Department of Environment's webpage advises:\n\nIt is sometimes reported that those who take rocks from the formation will be cursed and suffer misfortune. There have been many instances where people who removed such rocks attempted to mail them back to various agencies in an attempt to remove the perceived curse.\n\nArchaeological findings to the east and west indicate that humans settled in the area more than 10,000 years ago. Europeans arrived in the Australian Western Desert in the 1870s. Uluru and Kata Tjuta were first mapped by Europeans in 1872 during the expeditionary period made possible by the construction of the Australian Overland Telegraph Line. In separate expeditions, Ernest Giles and William Gosse were the first European explorers to this area.\n\nWhile exploring the area in 1872, Giles sighted Kata Tjuta from a location near Kings Canyon and called it Mount Olga, while the following year Gosse observed Uluru and named it Ayers Rock, in honour of the Chief Secretary of South Australia, Sir Henry Ayers. Further explorations followed with the aim of establishing the possibilities of the area for pastoralism. In the late 19th century, pastoralists attempted to establish themselves in areas adjoining the Southwestern/Petermann Reserve and interaction between Aṉangu and white people became more frequent and more violent. Due to the effects of grazing and drought, bush food stores became depleted. Competition for these resources created conflict between the two groups, resulting in more frequent police patrols. Later, during the depression in the 1930s, Aṉangu became involved in dingo scalping with 'doggers' who introduced Aṉangu to European foods and ways.\n\nBetween 1918 and 1921, large adjoining areas of South Australia, Western Australia, and the Northern Territory were declared as Aboriginal reserves, sanctuaries for nomadic people who had virtually no contact with European settlers. In 1920, part of Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park was declared an Aboriginal Reserve (commonly known as the South-Western or Petermann Reserve) by the Australian government under the Aboriginals Ordinance.\n\nThe first tourists arrived in the Uluru area in 1936. Beginning in the 1940s, permanent European settlement of the area for reasons of the Aboriginal welfare policy and to help promote tourism of Uluru. This increased tourism prompted the formation of the first vehicular tracks in 1948 and tour bus services began early in the 1950s. In 1958, the area that would become the Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park was excised from the Petermann Reserve; it was placed under the management of the Northern Territory Reserves Board and named the Ayers Rock–Mount Olga National Park. The first ranger was Bill Harney, a well-recognised central Australian figure. By 1959, the first motel leases had been granted and Eddie Connellan had constructed an airstrip close to the northern side of Uluru.\n\nOn 26 October 1985, the Australian government returned ownership of Uluru to the local Pitjantjatjara Aborigines, with one of the conditions being that the Aṉangu would lease it back to the National Parks and Wildlife agency for 99 years and that it would be jointly managed. An agreement originally made between the community and Prime Minister Bob Hawke that the climb to the top by tourists would be stopped was later broken. The Aboriginal community of Mutitjulu, with a population of approximately 300, is located near the eastern end of Uluru. From Uluru it is by road to the tourist town of Yulara, population 3,000, which is situated just outside the national park.\n\nOn 8 October 2009, the Talinguru Nyakuntjaku viewing area opened to public visitation. The A$21 million project about on the east side of Uluru involved design and construction supervision by the Aṉangu traditional owners, with of roads and of walking trails being built for the area.\n\nThe development of tourism infrastructure adjacent to the base of Uluru that began in the 1950s soon produced adverse environmental impacts. It was decided in the early 1970s to remove all accommodation-related tourist facilities and re-establish them outside the park. In 1975, a reservation of of land beyond the park's northern boundary, from Uluru, was approved for the development of a tourist facility and an associated airport, to be known as Yulara. The camp ground within the park was closed in 1983 and the motels closed in late 1984, coinciding with the opening of the Yulara resort. In 1992, the majority interest in the Yulara resort held by the Northern Territory Government was sold and the resort was renamed Ayers Rock Resort.\n\nSince the park was listed as a World Heritage Site, annual visitor numbers rose to over 400,000 visitors by the year 2000. Increased tourism provides regional and national economic benefits. It also presents an ongoing challenge to balance conservation of cultural values and visitor needs.\n\nThe local Aṉangu do not climb Uluru because of its great spiritual significance. They request that visitors do not climb the rock, partly due to the path crossing a sacred traditional Dreamtime track, and also due to a sense of responsibility for the safety of visitors. The visitors guide says \"the climb is not prohibited, but we prefer that, as a guest on Aṉangu land, you will choose to respect our law and culture by not climbing.\"\n\nAccording to a 2010 publication, just over one-third of all visitors to the park climb Uluru; a high percentage of these were children. A chain handhold added in 1964 and extended in 1976 makes the hour-long climb easier, but it is still a steep, hike to the top, where it can be quite windy. It is recommended individuals drink plenty of water while climbing, and those who are unfit, suffer from vertigo or medical conditions restricting exercise, do not attempt it. Climbing Uluru is generally closed to the public when high winds are present at the top. There have been at least 37 deaths relating to recreational climbing since such incidents began being recorded. About one-sixth of visitors made the climb between 2011 and 2015.\n\nOn 11 December 1983, the Prime Minister of Australia, Bob Hawke, promised to hand back the land title to the Aṉangu traditional custodians and caretakers and agreed to the community's 10-point plan which included forbidding the climbing of Uluru. The government, however, set access to climb Uluru and a 99-year lease, instead of the previously agreed upon 50-year lease, as conditions before the title was officially given back to the Aṉangu on 26 October 1985.\n\nThe Aboriginal traditional owners of Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park (Nguraritja) and the Federal Government's Director of National Parks share decision-making on the management of Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park. Under their joint Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park Management Plan 2010–20, issued by the Director of National Parks under the \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999\", clause 6.3.3 provides that the Director and the Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa Board of Management work towards closure of the climb and, additionally, provides that it will close upon any of three conditions being met: there are \"adequate new visitor experiences\", less than 20 per cent of visitors make the climb or the \"critical factors\" in decisions to visit are \"cultural and natural experiences\". Despite cogent evidence the second condition was met by July 2013, the climb remained open.\n\nSeveral controversial incidents on top of Uluru in 2010, including a striptease, golfing and nudity, led to renewed calls for banning the climb.\n\nOn 1 November 2017, the Uluṟu–Kata Tjuṯa National Park board voted unanimously to prohibit climbing Uluru, with the ban to take effect in October 2019.\n\nThe Aṉangu also request that visitors do not photograph certain sections of Uluru, for reasons related to traditional \"Tjukurpa\" beliefs. These areas are the sites of gender-linked rituals and are forbidden ground for Aṉangu of the opposite sex to those participating in the rituals in question. The photographic restriction is intended to prevent Aṉangu from inadvertently violating this taboo by encountering photographs of the forbidden sites in the outside world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32351392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32351392", "title": "Von Kármán–Gabrielli diagram", "text": "Von Kármán–Gabrielli diagram\n\nThe von Kármán–Gabrielli diagram (also Gabrielli–von Kármán diagram, GvK diagram) is a diagram which compares the efficiency of transportation methods by plotting specific tractive force, or specific resistance (\"ε = P/mgv = E/mgd\") against velocity (\"v\"). It was first used by Theodore von Kármán and Giuseppe Gabrielli in their 1950 paper on this subject.\n\nThe basic idea is that formally, 1 kWh/ 100 km is equivalent to a force (see Work (physics)#Work and energy), a resistance force amounting to 36 N.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318160", "title": "Ziz", "text": "Ziz\n\nThe Ziz (Hebrew: ) is a giant griffin-like bird in Jewish mythology, said to be large enough to be able to block out the sun with its wingspan.\n\nIt is considered a giant animal/monster corresponding to archetypal creatures. Rabbis have said that the Ziz is comparable to the Persian Simurgh, while modern scholars compare the Ziz to the Sumerian Anzû and the Ancient Greek phoenix.\n\nThere is only passing mention of the Ziz in the Bible, found in Psalms 50:11 \"I know all the birds of the mountains and \"Zīz śāday\" is mine\" and Psalms 80:13-14 \"The boar from the forest ravages it, and \"Zīz śāday\" feeds on it\", and these are often lost in translation from the Hebrew. The Jewish aggadot say of the Ziz:\nNon-Jews also knew of the Ziz. Johannes Buxtorf's 1603 \"Synagoga Judaica\" discusses the Ziz. His text is echoed in English by Samuel Purchas in 1613:\n\nHumphrey Prideaux in 1698 describes the Ziz as being like a giant celestial rooster:\n"}
{"id": "46732201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46732201", "title": "İğneada Floodplain Forests National Park", "text": "İğneada Floodplain Forests National Park\n\nThe İğneada Floodplain Forests National Park (), established on November 13, 2007, is a national park located within Kırklareli Province in Marmara Region of Turkey.\n\nThe national park covers an area of and is located at İğneada town on the Turkish-Bulgarian border at far from Demirköy district of Kırklareli Province.\n\nStreams running down from the Strandzha mountain range towards Black Sea formed alluvium on the shore, where floodplain () occurred due to seasonal floodings.\n\nThe protected area is administered by the Directorate-General of Nature Protection and National Parks () of the Ministry of Environment and Forest.\n\nThe national park is a rare ecosystem, which consists of marsh, swamp, lakes and coastal sand dunes. The Strandzha mountain range is situated in the south and west. There are five lakes with aquatic plant. Lake Erikli covering is a lagoon, which gets separated from the sea in the summer months as a result of drought. Lake Mert of area is formed by Çavuşdere creek at its mouth. Lake Saka is a small lake of situated in the south of the national park between the floodplain and the dunes. The two other lakes are Lake Hamam of size and Lake Pedina of . The sand dunes are situated on both sides of İğneada town. The dunes in the north stretch out from east of Lake Erikli to İğneada. The southern dunes run from the Lake Mert's sea connection to the south of Lake Saka, reaching a width of at some places.\n\nThe long dunes with the plant species, unique to the southwestern Black Sea region, are of great importance. The flora of dunes in the belt between the lakes, marsh and the sea are under protection by international agreement. The national park is also habitat for swamp and non-evergreen mixed wood. Vine species are the most distinct plants of the forest. Sprecies of European ash (\"Fraxinus excelsior\"), oak (\"Quercus\"), alder (\"(Alnus\"), beech (\"Fagaceae\") and maple (\"Aceraceae\") are trees found in the national park forest.\n\nTrout (\"Oncorhynchus\"), smelt (\"Osmeridae\"), grey mullet (\"Mugilidae\") are fish species of the national park.\nBirds like white-tailed eagle (\"Haliaeetus albicilla\"), European green woodpecker (\"Picus viridis\"), owl (\"Strigiformes\"), grey heron (\"Ardea cinerea\"), European cuckoo (\"Cuculus canorus\"), kingfisher (\"Coraciiformes\"), black stork (\"Ciconia nigra)\") and hoopoe (\"Upupa epops\") are observed in the area.\nAmong the mammals are wildcat (\"Felis silvestris\"), wild boar (\"Sus scrofa\"), hare (\"Lepus\"), European pine marten (\"Martes martes\"), European badger (\"Meles meles\"), grey wolf (\"Canis lupus\"), deer (\"Cervidae\"), fox (\"Vulpes vulpes\"), European otter (\"Lutra lutra\"), yellow-necked mouse (\"Apodemus flavicollis\"), weasel (\"Mustela\"), big-eared bat (\"Micronycteris\"), and variegated skunk (\"Mephitis mephitis\").\n\nAs reptiles Hermann's tortoise (\"Testudo hermanni\"), southern crested newt (\"Triturus karelinii\"), lizard (\"Lacertilia\"), asp (\"Vipera aspis\"), earringed water snake (\"Acrochordidae\") are found in the area.\n\nİğneada Floodplain Forests National Park can be reached by public transportation from Istanbul via Silivri, Çorlu, Lüleburgaz, Pınarhisar, Demirköy and İğneada. It is convenient to go from Istanbul over the motorway via Saray, Vize and then Poyralı, Demirköy and İğneada by car.\n\n"}
