{"id": "342876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342876", "title": "Anna Maxwell", "text": "Anna Maxwell\n\nAnna Caroline Maxwell (March 14, 1851January 2, 1929), was a nurse who came to be known as \"the American Florence Nightingale\". Her pioneering activities were crucial to the growth of professional nursing in the United States.\n\nMaxwell was born in Bristol, New York on March 14, 1851. Her father was a Scottish emigrant, clergyman John Eglinton Maxwell, and her mother was an American-born woman of English descent, Diantha Caroline Maxwell. The family moved to Canada for some of Maxwell's childhood, returning in 1874. That year, she began nursing without formal training, as an assistant matron at New England Hospital. She left in 1876 and spent two years in England before enrolling at Boston City Hospital Training School for Nurses. She was attracted there by the renown of Linda Richards, one of America's first nurses, who taught at the school.\n\nIn 1880 Maxwell was hired to start a training school at Montreal General Hospital, however she found it a frustratingly slow experience. She left after six months and travelled to Europe, where she visited a number of hospitals. She returned to America and in November 1881 she was offered the superintendency of the Training School for Nurses at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. In 1889, she moved to New York to be director of nursing at St. Luke's Hospital, and from there became superintendent of nursing at the Presbyterian Hospital of New York from 1892 to 1921. Maxwell was also the first director of the Presbyterian Hospital's nursing school, founded in 1892, which later became the Columbia University School of Nursing.\n\nDuring the Spanish–American War Maxwell requested permission to take trained nurses to military hospitals to care for casualties. She was sent to a field hospital in Chicamauga, Georgia, where she and her nurses encountered poor sanitation, widespread disease, and a high death rate. Maxwell and her nurses were able to improve the conditions significantly. There was also an outbreak of typhoid fever at a military training camp in the area, and Maxwell led 150 nurses in caring for over 600 cases, as well as cases of malaria and measles. The military was impressed with the nurses' achievements and in 1901, with Maxwell's involvement, the United States Army Nurse Corps was established.\n\nIn World War I, she also worked to prepare nurses for active military service, and in 1916 travelled to Europe to visit hospitals at the fronts. France awarded her the Medaille de l'Hygiene Publique (Medal of Honor for Public Health) in recognition of her work. Following the war, Maxwell worked for nurses to be given a rank in the armed forces, which was achieved in 1920.\n\nIn addition to her work in education and with the military, Maxwell co-wrote a textbook with Amy E. Pope entitled \"Practical Nursing\". She was also a member of the American Society of Superintendents of Training Schools for Nurses (1893), which later developed into the National League for Nursing, and the Nurses' Associated Alumnae of the United States and Canada (1897), which later became the American Nurses Association. She was also a member of the International Council of Nurses (1899) and the American Red Cross Nursing Service (1899), and was involved in establishing the \"American Journal of Nursing\" and the Isabel Hampton Robb Scholarship Fund.\n\nThe first building to open at the new Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in 1928 was the home for the university's nursing school. It was named the \"Anna C. Maxwell Hall\" in her honor. The hall was razed in 1984 to make room for a new hospital building, and the university established an endowed professorship at the nursing school in Maxwell's name. Maxwell was one of the first women buried at Arlington National Cemetery. Columbia University awarded her an honorary Master of Arts degree. \nDue to her military service, establishing the Army Nurse Corps, she was one of the first women buried in Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors.\n"}
{"id": "1990966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1990966", "title": "Business education", "text": "Business education\n\nBusiness education involves teaching students the fundamentals, theories, and processes of business. Education in this field occurs at several levels, including secondary education and higher education or university education. Approximately 38% of students enroll in one or more business courses during their high school tenure.\n\nBusiness is taught as an academic subject at secondary level in many countries, including Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Lesotho, Nepal, New Zealand, Pakistan, Nigeria, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Zimbabwe, Argentina, Sweden, Tanzania, Malaysia and the United Kingdom. At pre-tertiary level, it is often called Business Studies, and usually combines elements of accountancy, finance, marketing, organizational studies, human resource management and economics.\n\nAt the university level, students have the opportunity to take undergraduate degrees, usually a bachelor's degree, in business and management. Specific curricula and degree-granting procedures differ by program and by region. In general though, the program will comprise either preparation for management and general business, or a detailed - more academic - focus on a specific area. Regardless, all will typically include basic selections such as Accounting, Marketing, Finance, and Operations Management.\n\nManagement-directed programs are designed to give a broad knowledge of the functional areas of a company, and their interconnection, and also to develop the student's practical managerial skills, communication skills and business decision-making capability. These programs thus incorporate training and practical experience, in the form of case projects, presentations, internships, industrial visits, and interaction with experts from the industry.\n\nSubject specific programs, on the other hand, focus on a particular area, and are often more weighted towards theory. Even in these cases, however, additional to their major, students are exposed to general business principles, taking initial courses in accounting/finance, human resources, statistics, marketing, economics, and information systems.\n\nDegrees offered here include:\n\nAt the graduate school level, students seek a variety of master's degrees, either in general management–very commonly the MBA–or in a specific area, such as marketing or finance. A further distinction is that students pursuing postgraduate degrees often have some business experience, although this is not always a program requirement. \n\nCorresponding to both of these, graduate degrees in business and management are generally of two sorts. \n\nA related distinction: the M.Sc in Management is more specialized than an MBA, and is more suited for academic research, while the MBA is more industry- and management-focused. \n\nAs regards degree structure, postgraduate business programs are, in general, designed such that students gain exposure to theory and practice alike; the mix, though, will differ by degree and by school, as discussed. Learning is then through lectures, case studies, and often team projects (“syndicate” work). The theory is covered in the classroom setting by academic faculty. Particularly in the MBA, the theory is then reinforced, and revisited, also in the classroom setting, through the case method, placing the student in the role of the decision maker, \"complete with the constraints and incomplete information found in real business issues.\" Practical learning often comprises consulting projects with real clients, or at least addressing an actual case, and is often undertaken in teams. The practical elements (as well as the case studies) may involve external practitioners, and sometimes executives, supporting the teaching from academic faculty. (See Business school #Use of case studies and #Other approaches.) One of the challenges for business academics is demonstrating that their curriculum is relevant to those who want to become managers.\n\nDegrees offered here include:\n\nAt the doctoral level, all degrees offered are research focused, although they do differ as regards their relative weightings of theory versus practice. Typically, the DBA, DPA, DHA and D.Mgt emphasize managerial practice alongside research; relatedly, the theses for these degrees will often focus on applied research. The other doctorates here are (exclusively) theory and research based. Entrance is usually on the basis of a relevant master's degree, and for practice-weighted degrees, relevant managerial experience. For the topic areas applicable to the thesis component see: List of fields of doctoral studies in the United States\n\n"}
{"id": "2681197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681197", "title": "Chancellor (education)", "text": "Chancellor (education)\n\nA chancellor is a leader of a college or university, usually either the executive or ceremonial head of the university or of a university campus within a university system.\n\nIn most Commonwealth and former Commonwealth nations, the chancellor is usually a ceremonial non-resident head of the university. In such institutions, the chief executive of a university is the vice-chancellor, who may carry an additional title, such as \"president & vice-chancellor\". The chancellor may serve as chairman of the governing body; if not, this duty is often held by a chairman who may be known as a pro-chancellor.\n\nIn many countries, the administrative and educational head of the university is known as the president, principal or rector. In the United States, the head of a university is most commonly a university president. In U.S. university systems that have more than one affiliated university or campus, the executive head of a specific campus may have the title of chancellor and report to the overall system's president, or vice versa.\n\nIn both Australia and New Zealand, a chancellor is the chairman of a university's governing body; thus, as well as having ceremonial duties, the chancellor participates in the governance of the university (but not its active management). The chancellor is assisted by a deputy chancellor (known as the pro-chancellor in some universities). The chancellor and deputy chancellor are frequently drawn from the senior ranks of business or the judiciary (it is one of the few jobs considered compatible with judicial service). Some universities have a visitor who is senior to the chancellor. University disputes can be appealed from the governing board to the visitor (as is still the case in the UK), but nowadays, such appeals are generally prohibited by legislation, and the position has only ceremonial functions (unlike the chancellor and deputy chancellor, who frequently preside at functions such as graduations, the visitor rarely attends university functions). The vice-chancellor usually serves as the chief executive of the university.\n\nMacquarie University in Sydney is a noteworthy anomaly as it once had the unique position of \"Emeritus Deputy Chancellor\", a post created for John Lincoln upon his retirement from his long-held post of deputy chancellor in 2000. The position was not merely an honorary title, as it also retained for Lincoln a place in the University Council until his death in 2011.\n\nCanadian universities and British universities in Scotland have a titular chancellor similar to those in England and Wales, with day-to-day operations typically handled by a \n\"principal\". In Scotland, for example, the chancellor of the University of Edinburgh is Anne, Princess Royal, whilst the current chancellor of the University of Aberdeen is Camilla, Duchess of Rothesay.\n\nIn Canada, the vice-chancellor usually carries the joint title of \"president and vice-chancellor\" or \"rector and vice-chancellor.\" Scottish principals generally carry the title of \"principal and vice-chancellor.\"\n\nIn Scotland, the title and post of rector is reserved to the third ranked official of university governance. The position exists in common throughout the five ancient universities of Scotland with rectorships in existence at the universities of St Andrews, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Edinburgh and Dundee, which is also considered to have ancient status as a result of its early connections to the University of St Andrews. The position of Lord Rector was given legal standing by virtue of the Universities (Scotland) Act 1889.\n\nRectors appoint a rector's assessor, effectively a deputy or stand-in, who may carry out their functions when they are absent from the university. The Rector chairs meetings of the university court, the governing body of the university, and is elected by the matriculated student body at regular intervals (usually every three years to enable every undergraduate who obtains a degree to vote at least once). An exception exists at Edinburgh, where the (Lord) Rector is elected by both students and staff.\n\nIn Finland, if the university has a chancellor (Finnish: \"Kansleri\", Swedish: \"Kansler\"), he is the leading official in the university. The duties of the chancellor are mainly to promote sciences and to look after the best interests of the university. As the rector of the university (Finnish: \"rehtori\", Swedish: \"rektor\") remains the de facto administrative leader and chief executive official, the role of the chancellor is more of a social, political and even historical nature. However some administrative duties still belong to the chancellor's jurisdiction despite their often arguably ceremonial nature. Examples of these include the appointment of new professors and docents.\n\nThe chancellor of University of Helsinki (the oldest, largest and most prestigious in Finland) has also the notable right to be present and to speak in the plenary meetings of the Council of State when matters regarding the university are discussed. Despite his role as the chancellor of only one university, he is often regarded as the political representative of Finland's entire university institution when he exercises his rights in the Council of State.\n\nIn the history of Finland the office of the chancellor dates all the way back to the Swedish Empire, and later the Russian Empire. Historically the chancellor's duty was to function as the official representative of the monarch in the autonomous university.\n\nThe number of chancellors in Finnish universities has declined over the years, and in vast majority of Finnish universities the highest official is the rector. The remaining universities with chancellors are University of Helsinki and Åbo Akademi University.\n\nIn France, chancellor (\"chancelier\") is one of the titles of the rector (\"recteur\"), a senior civil servant of the Ministry of Education serving as manager of a regional educational district (\"académie\"). In his capacity as chancellor, the rector awards academic degrees to the university's graduates, oversees the legality of the universities executive acts and channels funding from the ministry. The rector has no executive function in any university, but remains a member \"ex officio\" of the board of every public university in his district.\n\nIn Germany (der Kanzler) and Poland (kanclerz), the chancellor is the head of many universities' administration and the leader of the non-academic staff while the rector is the academic head. In Poland, the main academic bodies of the university consists of: rektor (the head of the university), prorektor (deputy rektor), dziekan (the head of the faculty), prodziekan (deputy dziekan), senat (the main council of the university). In universities with presidential constitution, the university's president holds both the functions of chancellor and rector.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (and before 1997, Governor of Hong Kong) acts as the chancellor of all chartered universities, which includes all eight public universities and Open University of Hong Kong. Day-to-day operation is in the hands of either a vice-chancellor (older and established institutions) or a president (in newer institutions), depending on the institution.\n\nIn Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine, the chancellor is the head of the university and is called \"rector.\" Some universities in Russia and Ukraine have figurehead \"presidents.\"\n\nIn India, almost all universities have a chancellor as their titular head whose function is largely ceremonial. The governor of the state, appointed as the union's representative of state by the president, acts as the chancellor of the university. The de facto head of the university is the vice-chancellor. In private non-profit universities, normally the head of the foundation who has established the university is the chancellor of the university and is the head of the university. His equivalent for engineering institutes is the director, even for those engineering institutes that are university equivalents like the Indian Institutes of Technology.\n\nFor private university unlike the chancellor who heads the conventional Indian 'state university', the private university is headed by a president or chairman of private organization and have other posts like vice-chancellors, deans of faculties, registrar and controller of examinations.\n\nIn Ireland, the four universities all have a chancellor as their figurehead leader. However, day-to-day operations of the universities are under the directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College, Dublin). The National University of Ireland's constituent universities do not have a chancellor each; rather, the president of each constituent university has the title of Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the NUI. In Dublin City University and the University of Limerick, the chancellor is also the chairman of the university's governing authority.\n\nIn Malaysia, the chancellor position is given to dignitaries such as royalty or prominent politicians by universities to represent the universities in the political arena. For example, the chancellor of University of Malaya, the oldest university in Malaysia is Sultan Nazrin Shah, the Sultan of Perak. His father, Sultan Azlan Shah also served as chancellor at the same university until his death in 2014.\n\nThe chancellor of Universiti Putra Malaysia is the current Sultan of Selangor, Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah, while the current Yang di-Pertuan Besar of Negeri Sembilan, Tunku Muhriz is the chancellor of Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia.\n\nThe chancellor of Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, a university situated in the state of Johor, is the current Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim.\n\nDatin Seri Jeanne Abdullah, the wife of the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Datuk Seri Abdullah Ahmad Badawi was appointed as the new chancellor of Open University Malaysia to take over the role from the first chancellor, the late YBhg Datin Paduka Seri Endon Mahmood (Abdullah Badawi's first wife).\n\nRecently, UCSI in Kuala Lumpur has given recognition to Tan Sri Datuk Seri Panglima Dr. Abdul Rahman Arshad as its first chancellor.\n\nIn Pakistan, chancellor is normally the figurehead of the university, who is normally the provincial governor where that university exists.\nDay-to-day business of the university is run by the vice chancellor.\n\nIn the Philippines, the De La Salle University designates the head of its university as the chancellor. For the University of the Philippines, the entire system is headed by a president, while the eight constituent universities under the system is each headed by a chancellor. The chancellor designates the different vice-chancellors for different areas of concern of the university: academic affairs, finance, and community affairs, among others. Some more universities like University of Santo Tomas and other colleges, institutions have chancellors. Its chancellor is the incumbent Master of the Order of Preachers (Dominicans); meanwhile, the vice chancellor is the prior provincial of the Dominican Province of the Philippines. Their roles are largely ceremonial. The University of Santo Tomas is governed mainly by its rector magnificus in overseeing its academic, financial and other affairs. On the other hand, the San Beda System has the prior or the abbot of Our Lady of Montserrat Abbey (Manila) as its chancellor for its constituent units while a rector-president heads each constituent unit.\n\nOther universities in the Philippines (such as state universities like Mindanao State University where each constituent campus is headed by chancellor) are mostly headed by their respective university presidents. Meanwhile, private (esp. Catholic) institutions are headed by a rector.\n\nChancellor is a titular position in Bangladesh always held by the incumbent President of Bangladesh under the Private Universities Act 1992. The position in public universities is not fixed for the president under any acts or laws (since the erection of a state university in Bangladesh requires an act to be passed in itself), but it has been the custom so far to name the incumbent president of the country as chancellor of all state universities thus established. The day-to-day business of the university is run by the vice chancellor. He has a deputy called the pro-vice-chancellor.\n\nIn Nepal, universities have a chancellor as ceremonial head. The de facto head of the university is the vice-chancellor. The chancellor is primarily responsible for attending the convocation programmes and accepting the resignation and appointment letter of a new vice-chancellor. Generally, the prime minister is considered the chancellor, and in his absence, the minister of education acts as the chancellor.\n\nIn the United States, heads of colleges and universities are typically called \"president.\" A multi-campus university system may be headed by a chancellor who serves as system-wide chief, with presidents governing individual institutions: for example, the City University of New York. There are also some university systems, such as the North Carolina, Illinois, Missouri, Massachusetts, Wisconsin and California university systems, in which those two titles are reversed. At Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, which is a single unified university with three campuses, the chief officers of the two smaller campuses at Camden and Newark are called chancellors, a renaming from \"provost.\" Rutgers University itself has a president as the chief officer.\n\nPresidents are the functional chief executive officers of most standalone U.S. universities; however, a few universities, such as Syracuse University and the University of Pittsburgh, have a chancellor as the chief executive officer. There are occasional other uses of the title \"chancellor\". The College of William & Mary uses chancellor in the British sense, as a figurehead leader, but the actual executive of the school is the \"president,\" not a \"vice-chancellor.\" Some schools, such as Lubbock Christian University, give the ceremonial title of \"chancellor\" to a retiring university president. The Catholic University of America is headed by a president (formerly \"rector\"), with the Archbishop of Washington serving as chancellor, a ceremonial position but one which does require the archbishop to represent the university before the Holy See. This scenario, while not always exactly duplicated, is typical in other Catholic universities due to the Catholic hierarchy. In some schools run by Catholic religious orders, the rector of the community supersedes the president when the individual is a member of that religious order.\n\nThe title \"chancellor\" is sometimes used in K-12 education in a sense similar to superintendent of schools, particularly in urban school districts. The New York City Schools Chancellor is the chief executive officer of the New York City Department of Education, which manages the city's public school system (the largest in the United States). The leader of the District of Columbia Public Schools system is also referred to as the chancellor.\n\nUniversity president is the title of the highest-ranking officer within the academic administration of a university, within university systems that prefer that appellation over other variations such as chancellor or rector. The relative seniority varies between institutions.\n\nIn France, the president is the elected chair of the board and chief executive officer in universities. The president is always elected by the board among the professors of the university. He serves a four-year term which is renewable once. The chancellor is a servant of the Ministry of Education who supervises regional educational districts. There is no hierarchical relation between the president and the chancellor.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, the president is the chief academic and administrative officer of the university and is usually also the vice-chancellor of the university. The private London based liberal-arts university Richmond, The American International University in London utilises the same system as in the United States but also with a ceremonial chancellor as figurehead.\n\nIn most stand-alone universities and colleges in the United States, the chief executive officer is called the president, while the second in command is called the provost. In some multi-campus state university systems, the chancellor has authority over all universities in the system, and therefore ranks higher than the presidents of individual universities within the system. In other state university systems, the president has authority over multiple campuses, each of which is headed by a chancellor who is under the authority of the president.\n\nThe average salary for a college presidents in private, non-profit institutions in 2015 was $569,932, 9 percent higher than in 2014.\n\nA \"vice-chancellor\" (commonly called a \"VC\") of a university in England, Wales, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, Australia,Nepal, India, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, South Africa, other Commonwealth countries, and some universities in Hong Kong is the chief executive of the university. In Scotland, Canada, and Ireland, the chief executive of a university is usually called principal or president, with \"vice-chancellor\" being an honorific associated with this title, allowing the individual to bestow degrees in absence of the chancellor.\n\nStrictly speaking, the VC is only a deputy to the chancellor of the university, but the chancellor is usually a prominent public figure who acts as a ceremonial figurehead only (e.g., the chancellor of the University of Cambridge for 36 years was Prince Philip), while the vice-chancellor acts as the day-to-day chief executive. An assistant to a vice-chancellor is called a pro-vice-chancellor or deputy vice-chancellor; these were traditionally academics who were elected to take on additional responsibilities in addition to their regular teaching and research for a limited time, but are now increasingly commonly permanent appointments. In some universities (e.g. in Australian universities: Deakin University, Macquarie University), there are several deputy vice-chancellors subordinate to the vice-chancellor, with \"pro-vice-chancellor\" being a position at executive level ranking below \"deputy vice-chancellor\".\n\nThere are a few exceptions within England. For example, the charter of the University of Manchester provides for the vice-chancellor to also use the title \"president\", and the first vice-chancellor, Alan Gilbert (2004–10), used \"president\" as his main title. The University of Warwick now officially uses \"vice-chancellor and president\" (VCP), although the holder is usually still known as the vice-chancellor in all but official documents. The chief executives of the constituent colleges of the University of London, many of which are now functionally independent universities, generally use the title \"principal\", although the chief executive of Imperial College has the title \"rector\", and Birkbeck College is headed by the master.\n\nThe executive head of an Australian university is the vice-chancellor, who serves as the university equivalent of a chief executive officer. The vice-chancellor is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the university and reports directly to the University Council, which the chancellor heads. Assisting the vice-chancellor, the roles of deputy vice-chancellors and pro vice-chancellors have emerged to better manage the administrative overhead of the position.\n\nCanadian university vice-chancellors almost always carry the title of \"president (or equivalent) and vice-chancellor\"; likewise, in Scotland, they hold the position of \"principal and vice-chancellor,\" as do a few Canadian universities such as Queen's and McGill. In the Scottish practice, the one individual may have two sets of official robes, reflecting a continuing division of responsibilities between the two posts. The vice-chancellor's robes, therefore, should not be worn in the presence of the chancellor but should only be worn when deputizing for the chancellor.\n\nIn India, most central and state level universities have a titular head called chancellor who is either an eminent person appointed by the Government of India (in central universities) or provincial governor (in state universities). The de facto head of a university is the vice-chancellor, the highest paid official of the university. Next in command are more than one pro-vice-chancellor in charge of academic as well as administrative and financial affairs. In deemed universities and institutes of national importance, the head of the institution is either called director general or director, the latter designation being more commonly used in academic terms in the subcontinent.\n\nThe President of Bangladesh is the titular chancellor of all universities in Bangladesh, public or private. The vice chancellor is the executive head, and his deputy, the pro-vice chancellor holds a full-time administrative office.\n\nThe Prime minister of Nepal is the titular chancellor of all universities in Nepal, public or private. The vice chancellor is the executive head, and along with Registrar holds a full-time administrative office.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, all the government universities are administered by the vice-chancellor.\n\nIn Sudan, universities are administered by the vice-chancellor .\n\nIn Kenya, chancellors are titular heads of public universities, either appointed by the head of state (president) directly, or, in newly introduced legislation, at the recommendation of senate and alumni of the university. The day-to-day running of universities is the responsibility of the vice-chancellors. \"Rector\" and \"president\" are not commonly used terms in university administration.\n\nIn Malaysia, all the government universities are administered by the vice-chancellor.\n\nIn Nigeria, chancellors are ceremonial heads of public universities (mostly traditional monarchs), appointed by the head of state (president), governor of a state (in the case of state-owned universities) or assumed by the owner of a private university. The day-to-day running of universities is the responsibility of the vice-chancellors. \"Rector\" and \"president\" are not commonly used terms in university administration.\n\nIn Ireland, day-to-day operations of the universities are under the directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College Dublin). However, the president of each constituent university of the National University of Ireland also has the title of pro-vice-chancellor of the NUI.\n\nIn the Philippines, University of Santo Tomas the day-to-day head of the university, as mandated by his duty as the Prior Provincial of the Philippine Dominican Province, the Dominican province that has majority control over the university.\n\nAs said earlier, the vice-chancellor or the \"grand vice-chancellor of the University of Santo Tomas\" is only the deputy to the chancellor of the university, but the chancellor is usually a prominent public figure who is not always in the country (e.g., the chancellor of University of Santo Tomas is the current Master of the Order of Preachers, the current being Very Rev. Fr. Bruno Cadoré, OP, while the rector acts as the day-to-day chief executive). The current vice chancellor of UST is the Prior Provincial of the Philippine Dominican Province, Very Rev. Fr. Napoleon Sipalay, OP. The current rector of the university is Rev. Fr. Herminio V. Dagohoy, OP.\n\nIn the University of the Philippines, the chancellor assigns different vice-chancellors to handle different aspects of running the university. There is one for instruction, administration, and community affairs, among others.\n\nIn Sweden, the rektor (rector) is the head of a Swedish university, but the word \"vice-chancellor\" (\"vicekansler\") is often used as the English translation of rektor. The \"vice-chancellor\" (\"vicekansler\") is also an honorary title given to the \"rectores magnifici\" at the universities of Lund and Uppsala.\n\nIn the United States, a vice-chancellor is an assistant to a chancellor, who is generally the (actual, not merely ceremonial) head of one campus of a large university which has several campuses. The head of the entire university is the president (the equivalent of a Commonwealth vice-chancellor), the chancellor is in charge of one campus, and a vice-chancellor is one of the chief assistants. Some systems, such as the California State University, Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education, and University of Mississippi invert this ranking so that the chancellor is the head of the entire university.\n\nAt the University of the South, the vice-chancellor is the administrative head of the university (as well as mayor of the town of Sewanee). The chancellor is a bishop of one of the 28 southeastern Episcopal dioceses that own the university and is elected by the members of the board of trustees. The chancellor neither resides at the university nor holds administrative power; the office of chancellor is a ceremonial one.\n\nThe principal is the chief executive and the chief academic officer of a university or college in certain parts of the Commonwealth.\n\nA \"director\" is the chief executive officer of a university or other educational institution. Equivalent names in different countries are vice-chancellor (many Commonwealth countries), chancellor (United States), principal (Scotland and Canada), and university president.\n\nIn Scotland, the principal is appointed by the university court or governing body of the university and will be chairman or president of the body of academics. In the case of the ancient universities of Scotland, the principal is president of the academic senate. The principal also holds the title of vice-chancellor, but their powers with regard to this position extend only to the awarding of degrees, as both the vice-chancellor and chancellor are titular posts.\n\nQueen's University and McGill University in Canada have principals instead of presidents as a result of their Scottish origins. In addition, the Royal Military College of Canada also has a principal.\n\nIn South Africa, the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997 defines the principal as \"the chief executive and accounting officer of a public higher education institution.\" The definition allows for the alternative nomenclatures of vice-chancellor and a rector, and these terms are in widespread use (the term \"vice-chancellor\" is more common in English-medium universities, whilst the term \"rector\" tends to be used in Afrikaans-medium universities). The exact name in a particular university will be defined by the Institutional Statute. The same act defines the chancellor as the titular head of an institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "19177967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19177967", "title": "Chartered Physicist", "text": "Chartered Physicist\n\nChartered Physicist (CPhys) is a chartered status and a professional qualification awarded by the Institute of Physics. It is denoted by the postnominals \"CPhys\".\n\nAchieving chartered status in any profession denotes to the wider community a high level of specialised subject knowledge and professional competence. According to the Institute of Physics, holders of the award of the Chartered Physicist (CPhys) demonstrate the \"highest standards of professionalism, up-to-date expertise, quality and safety\" along with \"the capacity to undertake independent practice and exercise leadership\" as well as \"commitment to keep pace with advancing knowledge and with the increasing expectations and requirements for which any profession must take responsibility\".\n\nThe status of Chartered Physicist was introduced in 1985 following approval from the Privy Council. It was originally granted automatically with corporate membership of the Institute of Physics (IoP). Reform of the membership structure in 1998 saw Chartered Physicist established as a separate qualification from 2001 that could be gained either alongside or after the status of Member or Fellow of the IoP. In order to gain the qualification, a physicist must be appropriately qualified (an accredited MSci or MPhys integrated master's degree is standard, although experience leading to an equivalent level can be counted), have had a minimum of two years of structured training and a minimum of two years responsible work experience, have demonstrated a commitment to continuing professional development, and have gained a number of competencies. For physicists gaining the status from 2012, revalidation through proof of continuing professional development is required every three years. \n\nChartered Physicist is considered to be equal in status to Chartered Engineer, which the IoP also awards as a member of the Engineering Council UK, and other chartered statuses in the UK. It is also considered a \"regulated profession\" under the European professional qualification directives.\n\n"}
{"id": "6765369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6765369", "title": "Christopher Wase", "text": "Christopher Wase\n\nChristopher Wase (1627–1690) was an English scholar, author, translator, and educator, who was the Architypographus of Oxford University Press for several years.\n\nThe son of John Wase of London, he was born in Hackney. He was educated at Eton College, and in 1645 was admitted scholar of King's College, Cambridge. Wase became Fellow of King's, and graduated B.A. in 1648. In 1649 he published a translation of Sophocles's ‘Electra,’ dedicated to Princess Elizabeth, with an appendix designed to show his devotion to the Stuart house. John Walker says that Wase also delivered a feigned letter from the king to Benjamin Whichcote, the Provost of King's. He was deprived of his fellowship and left England. \n\nCaptured at sea, Wase was imprisoned at Gravesend, but escaped, and served in the Spanish army against the French. He was taken prisoner, but was released, and returned to England and became tutor to William, the eldest son of Philip Herbert, 5th Earl of Pembroke.\n\nIn 1655 Wase proceeded M.A. and was appointed headmaster of the royal free school in Dedham, Essex. From 1662 to 1668 he was headmaster of Tonbridge school, where the register states that he was B.D., and educated at the school Thomas Herbert, younger brother of William Herbert. In 1671 he became superior beadle at law and printer to the university of Oxford. He died on 29 August 1690, in Oxford.\n\nIn 1647 Nicholas Gray, the Head Master of Eton, published Wase's Greek version of Hugo Grotius's \"Baptizatorum Puerorum Institutio\" (other editions 1650, 1665, 1668, and 1682).\n\nIn 1649, Wase published his translation of the \"Electra\" of Sophocles. It called upon Prince Charles, then living in Jersey, to avenge the death of his father, Charles I. Oliver Cromwell was figured as Egist, killed by Charles as Orestes. Wase appended two poems anticipating the immediate restoration of the monarchy, one of which mentions John Milton and alludes to his divorce tracts. His Latin notebooks, many of which contain political poems written during the 1650s, are in the Bodleian library. \n\nIn 1654 Wase dedicated to his pupil William Herbert a translation of the \"Cynegeticon\" of Faliscus Gratius. Edmund Waller addressed a copy of verses to Wase on this performance.\n\nIn 1668, Wase published the first complete English-language edition of Phaedrus's \"Fables\". In 1678, he produced a survey of free schools throughout all of England; in many cases, his survey is the only surviving record of those schools' existence. \"Considerations concerning Free Schools in England\" (Oxford, 1678) urged an increase in the number of schools, and the claims of scholars on the wealthy. \n\nBesides the works mentioned, Wase also published:\n\n\nThomas Hearne, in his preface to John Leland's \"Itinerary\", refers to Wase as an \"eminent philologer\". His manuscripts were preserved in the library of Corpus Christi College, Oxford. A small oval portrait is mentioned by James Granger.\n"}
{"id": "5685241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5685241", "title": "Continuing legal education", "text": "Continuing legal education\n\nContinuing legal education (CLE), also known as mandatory or minimum continuing legal education (MCLE) or, in some jurisdictions outside the United States, as continuing professional development, consists of professional education for attorneys that takes place after their initial admission to the bar. Within the United States, U.S. attorneys in many states and territories must complete certain required CLE in order to maintain their U.S. licenses to practice law. Outside the United States, lawyers in various jurisdictions, such as British Columbia in Canada, must also complete certain required CLE. However, some jurisdictions, such as the District of Columbia and Israel, recommend, but do not require, that attorneys complete CLE.\n\nNo nationwide rules exist within the United States for CLE requirements or accreditation. Instead, each individual jurisdiction (i.e., each state, the District of Columbia, and each territory) exercises discretion on how to regulate U.S. attorneys, which includes establishing rules for CLE requirements and accreditation. This authority is typically vested in each jurisdiction's supreme court and delegated to special CLE commissions or boards.\n\nNonetheless, various efforts have been made to promote uniformity of CLE programs across U.S. jurisdictions. For example, the American Bar Association (ABA) promulgated a model CLE rule for individual jurisdictions to adopt. Similarly, the Continuing Legal Education Regulators Association (CLEreg) created a uniform CLE application, a uniform CLE attendance certification, and a CLE distance learning glossary. CLEreg also created a CLE guide to assist its members in managing CLE programs.\n\nIn U.S. jurisdictions with mandatory CLE requirements, attorneys must typically earn a minimum number of CLE credits (measured in hours) over a set period of years. Also, some of these jurisdictions require a minimum number of CLE credits for specific topics (e.g., ethics, diversity training, elimination of bias, professional responsibility, basic skills, substance abuse, prevention of malpractice, and attorney-client disputes).\n\nU.S. attorneys typically earn CLE credits by completing legal training presented by experienced attorneys. The training may cover both legal theory and practical experiences in legal practice. Competency testing is not usually required in order for attorneys to earn CLE credits through legal training. Classroom training materials can be extensive and may represent the most current and advanced thinking available on a particular legal subject. Oftentimes, a portion of CLE credits may be earned through reading and other self-study. In recent years, many jurisdictions now allow attorneys to earn CLE credits as part of distance education courses taken on-line or by listening to audio downloads.\n\nAlternatively, experienced attorneys in some jurisdictions, such as New York, may also earn CLE credits for speaking or teaching at accredited CLE programs; for moderating or participating in panel presentations at accredited CLE activities; for teaching law courses at ABA-accredited law schools; for preparing students for and judging law competitions, mock trials and moot court arguments, including those at the high school or college level; for published legal research-based writing; and for providing pro bono legal services.\n\nLegal training or other activities often meet the rules for CLE requirements and accreditation in multiple jurisdictions. In these instances, nothing prohibits attorneys licensed in one or more of these jurisdictions from counting the training or other activities towards fulfillment of their CLE credit requirements for each of these jurisdictions.\n\nOpportunities for CLE are offered throughout the year by state bar associations, national legal organizations such as the American Bar Association, Federal Bar Association, law schools, and many other legal associations and groups such as non-profit CLE providers Practising Law Institute (PLI), American Law Institute Continuing Legal Education (ALI CLE; formerly American Law Institute-American Bar Association ALI-ABA), The Center for American and International Law (CAIL), and The Institute of American & Talmudic Law (IAT Law), as well as other private, for-profit enterprises. Activities are usually open to all lawyers (and sometimes non-lawyers), but organizations often offer discounts to their own members. A recent trend is toward the provision and promotion of free CLE programs.\n\nUniquely, Kentucky allows all licensed attorneys in the state to complete their annual CLE requirement without a registration fee through a two-day program known as Kentucky Law Update, offered annually in at least seven locations throughout the state.\n\nSome attorneys, particularly those who have spent many years in active practice, have resisted CLE requirements as unconstitutional. However, in 1999, the Supreme Court of California upheld that state's CLE program against an Equal Protection Clause constitutional challenge.\n\nIn Canada, rules vary by jurisdiction (i.e., provinces and territories). For example, Alberta has a mandatory Continuing Professional Development (CPD) program, requiring preparation of annual CPD plans. Lawyers develop their plans and declare to the Law Society of Alberta on an annual basis that these are complete. The Legal Education Society of Alberta provides tools to facilitate compliance with these requirements.\n\nIn Ontario the Law Society of Upper Canada, beginning in 2010, instituted mandatory CPD hours for all lawyers in the province.\n\nIn British Columbia, CPD is mandatory and lawyers are required to annually report their continuing legal education activities to the Law Society of British Columbia. The Continuing Legal Education Society of BC provides tools to facilitate compliance with these requirements. Practicing lawyers must complete a minimum of 12 hours of coursework and 50 hours of self study annually.\n\nContinuing legal education required of members of the Integrated Bar of the Philippines (IBP) to ensure that throughout their career, they keep abreast with law and jurisprudence, maintain the ethics of the profession and enhance the standards of the practice of law (Rule 1, Bar Matter No. 850 – Supreme Court of the Philippines)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50670063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50670063", "title": "Damon Pierce", "text": "Damon Pierce\n\nDamon Pierce, creator and owner of slavetobondage.com, is a world renowned bondage rigger, BDSM educator, professional piercer, adult entertainment producer and director from Los Angeles, California. He is known for his skill with well known companies such as Penthouse, Hustler, INSEX/Intersec, KINK, Hustler’s Taboo, Andrew Blake, PlayboyTV, Adam and Eve, Bonview, and Bizarre Video. Damon Pierce has worked with well known photographers like Ed Fox, Steve Diet Goedde, Eric Minh Swenson, Dave Naz and Ken Marcus.\n\nWith the photographer Dave Naz, Pierce has been published in magazines such as Taboo Magazine, Private Magazine, Leg World, Leg Show and Nuggit. During the 90's, most of the bondage featured in Wicked Pictures was Damon's work. Damon's bondage rigging is not only featured in magazines, but many adult films as well. Damon Pierce met director and performer Chloe Nicole and begin doing bondage for her movies that she produced for Vivid. Damon also met Ernest Green and was asked to do bondage for all of Green’s movies which he produced for Vivid, Adam and Eve and Bizarre and Bonview. He began working for many other adult companies creating creative bondage BDSM scenarios for their movies.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5033291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5033291", "title": "David Berliner", "text": "David Berliner\n\nDavid C. Berliner is an educational psychologist. He was professor and dean of the Mary Lou Fulton Institute and Graduate School of Education.\n\nAfter a B.A. in psychology from U.C.L.A. and an M.A. in psychology from California State University at Los Angeles, Berliner received a Ph.D. in Educational Psychology from the Stanford Graduate School of Education. He also was awarded Doctorates of Humane Letters, Honoris Causa, from the University of Massachusetts Amherst and from Manhattanville College. He is the father of BethAnn Berliner, a senior researcher at WestEd and also the father of Brett A. Berliner, a professor of History at Morgan State University and author of \"Ambivalent Desire: The Exotic Black Other in Jazz Age France\".\n\nBerliner has authored more than 200 articles, books and chapters in the fields of educational psychology, teacher education, and educational policy, including the best-seller \"The Manufactured Crisis\" (co-authored with B.J. Biddle) and six editions of the textbook \"Educational Psychology\" (co-authored with N.L. Gage). He also co-authored \"Putting Research to Work in your School\" with his wife, Ursula Casanova, \"Collateral Damage: How High-stakes Testing Corrupts American Education\" with S.L. Nichols, and edited the \"Handbook of Educational Psychology\" (with R.C. Calfee), \"Perspectives on instructional Time\" (with C. Fisher). \n\nBerliner is a past president of the American Educational Research Association, and of the Division of Educational Psychology of the American Psychological Association. Berliner is a Regents' Professor Emeritus of Education at Arizona State University. Among other honors he is an elected member of the National Academy of Education, the International Academy of Education, and a fellow (1988) of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences. He is the winner of the E.L. Thorndike award in educational psychology, the distinguished contributions award of the American Educational Research Association, the Friend of Education award of the NEA, and the Brock International Prize for Distinguished contributions to education.\n"}
{"id": "2014129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2014129", "title": "Dhondo Keshav Karve", "text": "Dhondo Keshav Karve\n\n\"\n\nDhondo Keshav Karve was born at Sheravali; his ancestral home. But he spent most of his childhood at place called Murud, in the district of Dapoli. He completed his primary education at a government school in Murud. Since childhood, Anna was very brilliant, intelligent and obedient. Apart from good upbringing, daily recitations of religious texts like Ramavijay, Harivijay & Shivalilamrut, made his pronunciations clear and his language pure. It was on his guru’s advice that Karve used to read newspapers in Durga temple near the school, from 5 pm till sunset because it was during this time that the devotees flooded the temple, which served the intention of making maximum people aware of public issues. When he started earning, Anna took the lead and repaired the decaying baton of the same temple. His inspiring life as a responsible citizen truly started from this place. He loved Murud with all his heart and hence he did a lot of work for this place through ‘Murud development fund’. Maharshi Karve, was a social reformer in India in the field of women's welfare.He established first women's university in Mumbai(Bombay). In honour of Karve, Queen's Road in Mumbai (Bombay) was renamed to Maharshi Karve Road.\n\nKarve continued the pioneering work in promoting widows' education. The Government of India awarded him with the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, in 1958, the year of his 100th birthday.\"\n\nThe appellation Maharshi, which the Indian public often assigned to Karve, means ”a great sage”. He was also sometimes affectionately called \"Annā Karve\"; in the Marathi-speaking community to which Karve belonged, the appellation \"Annā\" is often used to address either one's father or an elder brother. He was also the first living Indian to feature on stamp postage in India.\n\nIt was Murud where he spent pleasant time with his first wife, Radhabai. R.D Karve \"(Anna Karve’s elder son) too was born in Murud. After the death of Radhabai, he remarried a widow. This spread far and wide throughout Murud and Maharashtra. The then narrow minded society of Murud did not accept Anna’s decision. It was truly unfortunate. He took it as a challenge and eventually Pune became the place where he did most of his social work for woman’s education & empowerment.\n\nDuring 1891–1914, Karve taught mathematics at Fergusson College in Pune, Maharashtra.\n\nIn 1958, the Government of India issued a stamp commemorating the birth centenary of Dhondo Keshav Karve.\n\nKarve wrote two autobiographical works: Ātmawrutta (1928) in Marathi, and Looking Back (1936) in English.\n\nThe Marathi play Himalayachi Saavli (The Shadow of the Himalayas) by Vasant Kanetkar, published in 1972, is loosely based on the life of Karve. The character of Nanasaheb Bhanu is a composite character based on Karve and other Marathi social reformers of the late 19th and early 20th century. The play itself depicts the tension between Bhanu/Karve's public life as a social reformer and his family life due to the social backlash and economic hardships his children and wife had to endure.\n\nThe film DhyasParva by Amol Palekar, based on the life of Karve's son Raghunath, also depicts the Karve family, and their social reformation projects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38023969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38023969", "title": "Edited volume", "text": "Edited volume\n\nAn edited volume or edited collection is a collection of scholarly or scientific chapters written by different authors. The chapters in an edited volume are original works (not republished works). \n\nAlternative terms for edited volume are \"contributed volume\", \"edited collection\" and \"multiauthor volume\". All these terms emphasize that the book is a collection of chapters contributed by different authors and harmonized by an editor. Edited volumes are of interest in academic publishing because they present different viewpoints and experiences on a common theme. \n\nAn edited volume is unlike an anthology, which is a collection of republished short literary works by different authors. It is also not a collected edition, which brings together already-published works by a single author and is edited by a publisher. It is different from a reader, which contains collected texts for learning purposes. Finally, it is different from proceedings, which contain articles written by different authors who present them at a scientific conference.\n\nThe editor (or editors, often there are several) of an edited volume is the key figure in conceiving and producing the book. He or she is responsible for determining the book's purpose, structure and style (as laid out in a book proposal); for signing a book contract with an interested publisher; and for selecting the individual contributors who will write the chapters (and possibly the foreword). Selecting the contributions may involve an open call for papers or may be conducted privately. The editor is also responsible for keeping the writing process on schedule and serves as the liaison between the publisher and the contributors. However, the task of \"chasing contributions\" can be substantial. \n\nThe editor may also be a contributor to the volume, by writing some chapters (often with other authors) and especially by preparing a preface, an introduction or an afterword summarizing the main points. The editor also carries out the linguistic and substantive editing of the chapters before submitting the book manuscript to the publisher, and coordinates authors' review and correction of the proofs (preprints).\n\nAuthors of individual chapters (contributors) sign \"contributor agreements\" that outline the topic and length of the chapter they are to write, the deadline for delivery, the copyright policy and the compensation (e.g. copies of the printed book). By accepting to contribute to the volume, they agree to prepare their chapters according to the book's style regarding, for example, the use of headings, illustrations, formatting and other text features.\n\n"}
{"id": "17178267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178267", "title": "Educate Together", "text": "Educate Together\n\nEducate Together is an educational charity in the Republic of Ireland which is the patron body to \"equality-based, co-educational, child centred, and democratically run\" schools. It was founded in 1984 to act as the patron body for the new multidenominational schools that opened after the establishment of the Dalkey School Project.\nAs of September 2018, Educate Together is the patron of 84 national schools in the Republic of Ireland.\nIn 2014 three Educate Together Second Level Schools opened in Dublin 15, Drogheda and Lucan along with the first Educate Together school outside Ireland, in Bristol in the United Kingdom. In joint patronage with Kildare and Wicklow ETB, Educate Together opened another second-level school, Celbridge Community School, in 2015.\n\nEducate Together has its roots in the Dalkey School Project founded in the 1970s. Before multi-denominational education, some of those involved in education in Ireland, such as Aine Hyland, Michael Johnston and Florrie Armstrong, questioned the denominational nature of the system and the need to have students of different faiths in different schools.\nThis group of educationalists and parents established the organisation with the stated aim:\nThe organisers of the school met opposition from a conservative Catholic group that circulated a leaflet in the Dalkey area alleging that the new school was \"atheistic\", \"divisive\", \"hostile to religion\" and \"a precedent for major trouble in other areas\".\n\nAs of 2016, the majority of primary schools in the Republic of Ireland are owned by religious communities (or boards of governors). Of the 3,200 primary schools in Ireland, only 2% are multidenominational.\n\nThe Dalkey School Project was founded in 1975. The school opened at the start of the 1978–79 school year in temporary premises with Florrie Armstrong as the school principal.\n\nBy 1984 two other multi-denominational schools had been started and Educate Together was established as a co-ordinating umbrella body. The organisation became a company limited by guarantee in 1998, and from the year 2000, all new Educate Together schools operate with the patronage of the national company. Educate Together has charitable status in Ireland.\n\nIn 2016, Educate Together was awarded Secularist of the Year by the UK's National Secular Society, for putting \"secularist principles into action and [demonstrating] what a 21st century secular education system should look like – children and young people educated together, taught an ethical education curriculum in a school with an inclusive ethos without any imposition of religion\".\n\nThe number of schools run by the organisation has grown: in 2007 it was 40, in 2008 it was 44 and by 2018 this number had risen to over 100 including its second level schools and its schools in the UK. In terms of pupil numbers, 2018 was the first year in which there were over 25,000 students attending an Educate Together school. By 2009 Educate Together had become the fastest-growing patron of schools in the Republic of Ireland. In 2015, three new schools opened in Tuam, Co. Galway, Pelletstown, Dublin and New Ross, County Wexford and one in Kildare.\n\nEducate Together schools seek to \"guarantee equality of access and esteem\" to children irrespective of their social, cultural or religious background. Educate Together schools seek to be \"learner centred\" in their approach to education, and are intended to be run as \"participatory democracies, with respectful partnership between parents, pupils and teachers\".\n\nEducate Together schools teach the Irish Primary School Curriculum, which includes 30 minutes a day (2 hours 30 minutes per week) to be spent on faith formation. In an Educate Together school this time is spent teaching their Learn Together Ethical Education Curriculum rather than the religious instructions programmes taught in denominational schools. There are four strands to this programme. \n\nAs of 2018, there are 84 Educate Together primary schools in Ireland, in 18 different counties. In addition, the body is patron to four schools in the UK.\n\nAs of 2018, there are 13 second-level schools operating with Educate Together involved as either patron, co-patron or partner. These second-level schools aim not to 'teach to the test' but to instead develop their students' skills in creative and critical thinking, communication, teamwork, research and leadership.\n\nResearch published by Trinity College in 2008 showed that 90 per cent of parents who sent their children to an Educate Together school would send their children to a secondary school based on the same model if it was available.\n\nEducate Together’s first second-level school - Hansfield Educate Together Secondary School - welcomed its first group of first-year students in August 2014. Educate Together is also joint patron of Kishoge Community School in Lucan and Ballymakenny College in Drogheda. It opened Celbridge Community School in August 2015 with Kildare and Wicklow Educational Training Board.\n\nIn the Irish system, student teachers complete their initial teacher education in state-funded, religiously-run Colleges of Education, where time is set aside for Religious Education and the study of either the Catholic or Church of Ireland religious instruction programmes. At present, Educate Together is working in four of the five state-funded Colleges of Education. Educate Together is currently lobbying for sustained access to full-year groupings at least twice in the undergraduate and post-graduate cycle.\n\nEducate Together offers a one year, part-time postgraduate Certificate in Ethical and Multi-denominational Education in partnership with St Patrick’s College of Education, Dublin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355736", "title": "Education in Wales", "text": "Education in Wales\n\nEducation in Wales differs in certain respects from education elsewhere in the United Kingdom. For example, a significant minority of students all over Wales are educated either wholly or largely through the medium of Welsh: in 2014/15, 15.7% of children and young people received Welsh-medium education - a drop from the 15.9% in 2010/11. And additional 10% attend schools which had a significant portion of the curriculum is bilingual. The study of the Welsh language is available to all age groups through nurseries, schools, colleges and universities and in adult education. The study of the language is compulsory for all pupils in State Schools until the age of 16.\n\nSince devolution, education policy in the four constituent countries of the UK has diverged: for example, England has pursued reforms based on diversity of school types and parental choice; Wales (and Scotland) remain more committed to the concept of the community-based comprehensive school. Systems of governance and regulation - the arrangements for planning, funding, quality-assuring and regulating learning, and for its local administration - are becoming increasingly differentiated across the four home countries. Education researcher David Reynolds claims that policy in Wales is driven by a \"producerist\" paradigm emphasising collaboration between educational partners. He also alludes to lower funding in Welsh schools compared to England, echoing similar concerns at university level. He concludes that performance data does not suggest that Wales has improved more rapidly than England, although there are considerable difficulties in making these kinds of assessments.\n\nA child's age on 1 September determines the point of entry into the relevant stage of education. Education is compulsory beginning with the term following the child's fifth birthday, but may take place at either home or school. Most parents choosing to educate through school-based provision, however, enrol their children in the reception year in September of that school year, with most children thus beginning school at age four or four and a half. This age was traditionally much earlier than in most other Western nations, but in recent years many European countries have lowered their age of compulsory education, usually by making one or more years of kindergarten compulsory.\n\nIn 2014/15, there were 1,330 primary schools in Wales with 273,400 pupils and 12,240 full-time equivalent (FTE) teachers. The teacher/pupil ratio was 1:22 and the average class size was 26 pupils. In the same year, there were 13 nursery schools in with 1,076 pupils and 43 full-time equivalent teachers. In 2015/16, there were 276,950 pupils in 1,310 primary schools - a rise of 3,550 since 2014/15.\n\nIn 2008 a unique new curriculum - the Foundation phase - was rolled out to all schools in Wales. It began for 3- to 4-year-olds and by 2011 is in place for 3- to 7-year-olds. It is based on experiential learning, in small groups, with a teacher ratio of 1:8 for the youngest ages.\n\nIn 2014/15, there were 435 Welsh-medium primary schools with 65,460 pupils, rising from 64,366 in 2013/14 but the number of Welsh-medium primary schools decreasing from 444 due primarily to the closure of small rural schools.\n\nPupils in secondary school take part in the compulsory GCSE and the non-compulsory A-level or BTEC qualifications at age 16 and 18 respectively. Since 2007 the Welsh Baccalaureate Qualification has also been available as an option although it was ungraded until 2014.\n\nIn 2014/15 there were 207 secondary schools (a drop of six since 2013/14) in Wales with 182,408 pupils and 11,269 FTE teachers (a drop of 310 since 2013/14). The pupil/teacher ratio was 17:1, which has remained largely the same since 2000/01. In 2015/16, there were 178,650 pupils in 205 secondary schools - a drop of 3,700 since 2014/15. The same report found that in 2015/16, there were 8,000 pupils in 34 independent schools, 4,540 pupils in 32 independent special schools, and 730 pupils in 25 pupil referral units.\n\nIn 2014/15, there were 50 Welsh-medium secondary (a drop of 2 since 2013/14) schools with 36,485 pupils, dropping from 37,400 in 2013/14. In the same year, there were 4 Welsh-medium middle schools (a rise of 2 since 2013/14) with 2,448 pupils, a rise from 1,577 in 2013/14.\n\nIn 2016, 60/3% of Year 11 pupils (aged 16) achieved the Level 2 inclusive threshold (Level 2 including a grade A*-C in English or Welsh first language and Mathematics). 35.6% of pupils eligible for FSM (free school meals) achieved the L2 inclusive threshold. 66.9% of pupils achieved A*-C in maths. 70.4% of pupils achieved A*-C in either English or Welsh first language.\n\nPISA results, by which the performance of Welsh pupils is compared to that of other countries, is also of enormous concern, with Wales lagging behind all other countries in the UK, leading to the then Minister of Education Leighton Andrews to describe the performance as \"unacceptable\".\n\nEducation Consortia\n\nThere are four formal education consortia in Wales covering:\n\nEach of the consortia are responsible for school improvement services throughout their respective local authorities and schools. Whilst all aspects of school improvement are considered consortia roles, they are specifically targeted with addressing the three Ministerial priorities of; improving levels of literacy, numeracy and reducing the impact of poverty on education attainment.\n\nFurther education (FE) includes full- and part-time learning for people over compulsory school age, excluding higher education. FE and publicly funded training in Wales is provided by 15 FE institutions in 2014/15 and a range of public, private and voluntary sector training providers, such as the Workers' Educational Association. Colleges vary in size and mission, and include general FE, tertiary and specialist institutions, including one Roman Catholic Sixth Form College and a residential adult education college. Many colleges offer leisure learning and training programmes designed to meet the needs of business. In 2014/15 there were 263,315 FE students in Wales spanning the entire availability of FE at multiple placements, including FE, HE (higher education), LA (local authority) Community, and work-based learning.\n\nAdult Community learning is a form of adult education or lifelong learning delivered and supported by local authorities in Wales. Programmes can be formal or informal, non-accredited or accredited, and vocational, academic or leisure orientated. In 2015/16 there were 28,710 learners in Local Authority Community Learning.\n\nStudents normally enter higher education (HE) from 18 onwards. All undergraduate education is largely state-financed (with Welsh students contributing £1,255), and students are generally entitled to student loans for maintenance. The state does not control syllabi, but it does influence admission procedures and monitors standards through the Higher Education Funding Council for Wales.\n\nThe typical first degree offered at Welsh universities is the Bachelor's degree, typically taking three years to complete full-time. Some institutions offer an undergraduate master's degree as a first degree, typically lasting four years. During a first degree students are known as undergraduates. Some universities offer a vocationally based Foundation degree, typically two years in length.\n\nWithin Wales, medical undergraduate education is provided by only Cardiff University, while graduate fast track route training is provided at Swansea University. In recent years there has been an increase in the number of universities with their own degree awarding powers owing to the change in the University of Wales from a single awarding body for most of the Universities in Wales to a confederal structure, along with former institutes gaining university status. In 2014/15, there were 8 HE institutions in Wales including one music conservatoire, the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama in Cardiff which is part of the University of Glamorgan Group. The University of Glamorgan, the second largest university in Wales, has never been a member of the University of Wales and awards its own degrees: the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama also awards University of Glamorgan degrees.\n\nIn 2014/15 there were 145,735 enrolments at HE institutions in Wales, including 97,900 first degree and other undergraduates and 27,780 postgraduates. Welsh HE institutions had a total of 10,140 full-time and part-time staff.\n\nIn 2012, the minister with responsibility for education within Wales, Leighton Andrews, made a significant statement in relation to the merger of Cardiff Metropolitan University (CMU, formerly UWIC), the University of Glamorgan and University of Wales, Newport (UWN), in which he proposed the dissolution of CMU and UN as part of the process towards merger. However significant such changes may seem, it is arguable that the effective imposition of an average undergraduate fee of £7.5 K pa for the three institutions (and others, but not to Cardiff, Swansea, Bangor and Aberystwyth all of whom will charge £9 K pa) will cause much more substantial long term damage to these universities and reinvent the 'binary divide' between universities and the former polytechnics and HE institutes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54448961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54448961", "title": "Elena Smirnova", "text": "Elena Smirnova\n\nElena Smirnova (, 6 May 1888 (O.S.)/18 May 1888 (N. S.) – 15 January 1934) was the last prima ballerina of the Mariinsky Theater in the Imperial period of Russia. Starring in many leading roles, she often performed choreography created by Marius Petipa and . Participating in early films of Germany and Russia, she made eight silent films and participated in the premiers of both the Ballets Russes in Paris and in the first performance of Russian ballet in Japan.\n\nWhen the Soviets took over Russia, Smirnova fled with a group of artists, making their way to Berlin, where she and her husband founded the Russian Romantic Theater and performed throughout Europe until 1926. Experiencing a serious illness, she recuperated in Milan before relocating to Argentina, where she gave her last performance and became a dance instructor. She was the first professor of dance at the recently created Conservatorio Nacional de Música y Declamación. An annual award is given in her name by the National Dance School of Uruguay.\n\nElena Aleksandrovna Smirnova was born on 18 May 1888 in Saint Petersburg, during the Russian Empire. She began her studies at the Imperial Ballet School under the instruction of Michel Fokine and Pavel Gerdt. Noted as a child prodigy, she began to perform at the Mariinsky Theater while she was still a student. In 1900, she played the role of Manu, in the ballet \"La Bayadère\" and in 1905, in the choreographic debut of Fokine, she played the part of Hymen in the ballet ' written by . Because of her good reviews, that same year, Fokine paired her with to dance to \"Polka with a Little Ball\" based on ' by Johann and Josef Strauss. Completing her studies, Smirnova graduated in 1906, with her final performances as Titania in Marius Petipa's ballet of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" choreographed by Folkine and in two duets with Vaslav Nijinsky in a dance to \"Flight of the Butterflies\" by Chopin and to \"Waltz-Fantasia\" by Mikhail Glinka.\n\nAs soon as Smirnova graduated, she was accepted into the ballet troupe at the Mariinsky Theater and began to receive small solo parts. \nIn 1907, she performed a \"pas de deux\" with Nijinsky in \"La fille mal gardée\" for which critics praised her technical execution but noted that her movement lacked melodic interpretation. The following year, she participated in a tour throughout the Russian provinces. In 1909, the year Sergei Diaghilev founded the Ballets Russes, she traveled to Paris, where she was listed among the company's principal dancers. She participated in the premiers of \"Le Pavillon d'Armide\" and \"Polovtsian Dances\" from the opera \"Prince Igor\" at the Théâtre du Châtelet on 18 May 1909. Smirnova's performance in both roles received praise in London newspapers, and the performances of \"Polovtsian Dances\" received enthusiastic standing ovations, which were credited with much of the fame Diaghilev's company received from the tour. In 1910 she worked with the Bolshoi Theatre and participated in tours in London and New York, and though she starred in several productions, they were not particularly successful.\nIn 1911, Smirnova performed in an alternating role of Swanilde with Elsa Vill in \"Coppélia\" by Léo Delibes. Critic Akim Volynsky called her performance heavy and complained that her \"dances on point could be heard in the farthest corners of the Maryinky’s enormous hall\". He liked Vill's performance better, but overall was unsatisfied with both soloists in the role. In her performance of \"The Dance of the Frescoes\" from \"The Little Humpbacked Horse\", Volynsky praised Smirnova's power, stating that she \"put her best foot forward\", overall commenting that her \"emboîté\" was done \"particularly well\". In 1912, her role as Kitri in \"Don Quixote\" received acclaim by both critics and the public, which noted that the angularity of her performance in other roles, which seemed flawed, worked well in the production. Vera Krasovskaya noted that she was one of the best dancers who had performed the role.\n\nBeginning in 1913, Smirnova made a series of silent films. A closed screening of a Berlin film \"Die Primaballerina\" (The Prima Ballerina) was released in April, showing Smirnova completing many of her own stunts. Several films followed, including \"Die Augen der Bajadere\" (\"The eyes of Bajadere\", 1913), \"Anita Iverson\" (1913), \"Die Ehre der Japanerin\" (\"The Honor of the Japanese Woman\", 1913), \"Das Geheimnis der schwarzen Maske\" (\"The Secret of the Black Mask\", 1913), \"Die Kleine Geisha\" (\"The Little Geisha\", 1913), \"Das Vermächtnis der Mutter\" (\"The Legacy of the Mother\", 1914) and \"Zigeunerblut\" (\"Gypsy Blood\", 1914). In addition, to film, her leading roles in ballet included many which were choreographed by Marius Petipa, such as Aspicia in \"The Pharaoh's Daughter\", the title role in \"Raymonda\", Izora in \"Bluebeard\", Niriti in \"The Talisman\" and the title role in \"Esmeralda\", among others. She was also the first to perform the role of Mercedes in the ballet \"The Andalusian\" by her husband when it premiered in 1915.\n\nSmirnova was promoted to prima ballerina in 1916 and that same year was among a few dancers who performed at the Imperial Theater of Tokyo to great acclaim. The tour, under the leadership of Smirnova's husband , was first tour of Japan by a Russian ballet corps. On the return trip, the troupe performed in Harbin, China and passed through Chita, Russia on their way back to Saint Petersburg. During the Russian Civil War, many noted dancers left Russia, which from 1918 left Smirnova as the only prima ballerina still working at the Mariinsky Theater. The theater name changed during the war to the State Academic Theater of Opera and Ballet (). During the seasons from 1918 to 1920, her most acclaimed role was as Aurora in \"The Sleeping Beauty\". In 1919, she danced in the premiere of \"Romance of the Rose\" by in the role of Rosa and then on 8 February 1920, performed her last role on the Russian stage.\n\nSoon after the performance, Smirnova and Romanov, along with Romanov's mother and daughter, Natalia, and other artists, clandestinely left Russia fleeing from the Bolshevik soldiers in 1920. Traveling in a hay cart, the group made their way to Romania and briefly performed in Bucharest. Then the artists moved to Berlin, where Romanov and Smirnova founded the Russian Theater a few months after their arrival in 1921. The theater was reorganized as the () with the German dancer, Elsa Krüger the following year.\n\nFinanced by a wealthy German patron, the theater staged a broad repertoire dedicated to Russian arts and included ballet, opera and pantomime, with Krüger, Obukhov, and Smirnova as the principal dancers. Based in Berlin, the company toured capitals of Europe performing one-act ballets like \"Les millions d'Arlequin\" by Riccardo Drigo, \"Pastoral\" by Christoph Willibald Gluck, and \"Pictures of a Boyar Wedding\", among others. They staged a critically acclaimed adaptation of \"Giselle\", but many of their performances were avant-garde choreographies created by Romanov for Smirnova. In 1924, the troupe secured a seven-week engagement at the London Coliseum, which proved unsuccessful. It was followed by a financially costly tour in Spain, which caused their backer to reduce the size of the company by almost half. Struggling financially, from the fall of 1924 to spring 1925, the troupe toured several German venues, but in March 1925, Smirnova was ill. She required a major operation from which her recovery was uncertain. In the fall of 1925, Romanov began rehearsing Sergei Prokofiev's \"Trapeze\", which debuted in Gotha on 6 November 1925 and then was performed in Hanover and Turin, before the company folded in 1926.\n\nLeaving Berlin, Smirnova and Romanov briefly lived in Milan, where Romanov worked at La Scala and then served as the ballet master for Anna Pavlova's ballet company.\n\nIn 1928, the couple immigrated to Argentina along with Obukhov, because Romanov had been hired as the head choreographer for the Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires. Despite her slow recovery and continuing illness, Smirnova made her last appearance on the stage at the Teatro Colón that same year. She then became the theater's dance instructor, before being hired as the first professor of dance for the National Conservatory of Music and Recitation (). Besides her work at the Conservatory, Smirnova taught private lessons at the Teatro Odeón and at her private studio, which was located at 500 Tucumán Street. Among her students were: Esmee Bulnes, , Maruja Pibernat, Mercedes Quintana, and María Ruanova.\n\nSmirnova died on 15 January 1934 in Buenos Aires and was buried in the pantheon of actors of the Chacarita Cemetery. A dance prize given in her name is awarded annually by the National School of Dance of Uruguay.\n\n"}
{"id": "32453192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32453192", "title": "Equality of autonomy", "text": "Equality of autonomy\n\nEquality of autonomy is a political philosophy concept of Amartya Sen that argues \"that the ability and means to choose our life course should be spread as equally as possible across society\"—i.e., an equal chance at autonomy or empowerment. Equality of autonomy strives to spread empowerment widely so that \"given their circumstances\", people have more \"choice and control\". The concept has a slightly different emphasis from related notions, such as the value of equality in the workplace (\"equal opportunity\") or equal material wealth (\"equality of outcome\").\nAccording to Todd May, Sen's approach requires \"active intervention of institutions like the state into people's lives\" but with an aim towards \"fostering of people's self-creation rather than their living conditions\". Sen argued that \"the ability to convert incomes into opportunities is affected by a multiplicity of individual and social differences that mean some people will need more than others to achieve the same range of capabilities\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12869407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12869407", "title": "Fiji Teachers Union", "text": "Fiji Teachers Union\n\nFiji Teachers Union (FTU) is a union representing elementary and secondary education teachers in Fiji. It is a member of the Fiji Trades Union Congress, and Education International.\n\nThe FTU was formed as a multi-racial organization. However, in 1960 the Fijian Teachers Union (FTA) was founded. The FTA limited its membership to indigenous Fijians. Most indigenous Fijian educators left the FTU, so that the FTU's membership is now overwhelmingly Indian. In 2004, the Fiji Teachers Union counted about 4,200 members (including over 700 indigenous Fijians). The Fiji Teachers’ Association had about 3,500 members.\n\nBy 1924 there were a significant number of local and overseas trained in Fiji, who saw the need for an organised group of teachers to discuss their professional and administrative matters. Under the leadership of Sewak Masih (of Toorak Boys’ School), the Methodist Teachers’ Association was formed and had members from Suva and Rewa. It adopted a motto: “To serve the Community is to serve God”.\nThis association of teachers kept meeting in Suva until 1927 when Sewak Masih was transferred to Levuka and this gave him an opportunity to invite all the teachers from Suva, Ba, Lautoka and Nadi to attend a conference in Levuka. A teacher by the name of Dukhharan travelled with his group from the Western Districts to attend this meeting. Among other matters a plan for a united organization of teachers was kumar\n\nAnother conference of the Methodist Teachers’ Association was held at Methodist Boys’ School in Toorak in 1928 where the following office bearers were elected: President: Sewak Masih, Vice President: P M Stephen, Secretary: G P Andrew and Assistant Secretary: HR Narayan. John Bairagi was elected as Secretary International and BR Padarath was chosen as the Treasurer.\nProfessional lectures were presented during the afternoon dinner by I J Beatie (M.A) on the topic “Reality in Education” and by G H Tindlay (M.A.) on “Psychology”.\n\nThere was no such organised association of teachers in the western side of Vitilevu; however, a meeting was convened at Natabua on Saturday 7 December 1929. The following teachers were present at this meeting: D A Shah, Dukharan, P M Stephen, D S John, W K Phillip, A V Ram Narayan, B L Ram Dass, R Varo, B H Sanjeu, Gulam Dastgir, J S Maiku, Jacob Wara, Peter Vatu, Farzand Ali and Pt Ami Chandra. C S Sharp, the principal of Natabua Secondary was invited to declare the meeting open.\n\nAs a result of this gathering of teachers an association called The Lautoka Teachers’ Association was formed under the chairmanship of Pt Ami Chandra. Dukharan was elected as the Vice President and W K Phillip became the Secretary/Treasurer. There was a committee of four executive members namely Robert Varo, D S John, P M Stephen and William. So by 1929 there were two Teachers’ Unions, one in the Central and the other in the Western Division but with similar aims and objectives.\n\nMajority of the local teachers were the products of Davuilevu Teachers’ Training Institute but the opening of Natabua Teachers’ training Institute and the Cawaci Centre in 1929 produced more trained teachers for the schools.\nThe administration of education in those days was done under the guidance and direction of the Director of Education but the status and service condition of the teachers were somewhat insecure and uncertain. Teachers were often victimised, over worked, underpaid and above all had to please many masters or bosses. The two newly formed teachers’ organizations were not strong enough to voice their opinions and protests to bring harmony in the profession. The solution as seen by the teachers at that time lay in the creation of a united body of teachers for all of Fiji.\nOn 9 March 1930 the Lautoka Teachers’ Association decided to hold a conference for all the teachers of Fiji. A lot of teachers from Suva could not attend the Lautoka meeting because of the transport difficulty and the inclement weather. They held their own meeting in Suva. This date became historic for the Fiji Teachers’ Union because it was at these meetings that the decision to amalgamate the Suva and Lautoka Teachers’ Associations was made. \nFollowing Indian teachers from Lautoka were part of the historic decision: Dukharan, (Chairman) P M Steven, P Frank, D A Shah, S P Ram, A V Ram Narayan, B L R Dass, Shiu Charan, C William, G M Prakash, D S John, M Munam, Farzand Ali, J S Maiku, Ram Jati Singh, Ram Sundar, Rameshwar Prasad, Sher Mohammed, Badri Prasad, Kripa Masih, Andrew G Prasad and Dastgir and there were eight Fijian teachers there as well: M/s Logavatu, I Racule, Tevita, Asaeli, Kepuli, Jona, Maikeli, Isireli and Peni Tonga.\nSuva teachers who held their historic meeting to vote for amalgamation included the following: Sewak Masih (Chairman), Hakim Din, B Samuel Sharan, N S Deoki, J John, K P Singh, H R Ram Narayan, J R Lochan, S Bharat, R D Sharma, D P Mishra, Edward Rama, Hari Bhajan, Ami Chandra, Hari Pal, A D Sharma, J S Bhagwan, Hira Lal, B R Padarath, B H Sanjeu, John Bairagi, George Sukhdeo, Shiu Mangal, B Ram Singh and T R Sharma. Fijian teachers Phillip Cula, T Rawasalevu, W Tuiwaqa, Sairusi Natuna and Inoke Cakutini were also present.\nThe meeting was co-chaired by Dukharan and Sewak Masih. The Conference adopted the motto of the Union with the slogan, “The Child Our Hope”. The Principal of Natabua Secondary C S Sharp officially opened the historic meeting and a secondary teacher E Mason presented a professional paper for discussion. W K Phillip presented the Annual Reports of the Unions. He had taken over the position of secretary from AG Prasad who had resigned earlier in the year.\n\nThe planning and organising of the Fiji Teachers’ Union that had begun in 1930 was completed in 1931 when the two teachers’ organizations of that time met at Natabua in Lautoka on 19 and 20 June and finally elected the officials of the National Executive. Mr S Hari Charan chaired the election procedures when D A Shah was elected the first President and Sewak Masih and S Hari Charan became the two Vice Presidents. R H Ram Narayan was elected the General Secretary with W K Phillip as his Assistant Secretary. J R Lochan became the Treasurer of the Union and there were twelve executive committee members: B H Sanjeu, R Deoki, S Parshu Ram, Andrew G Prasad, S Ram Singh, Tulsi R Sharma, Phillip Cula, I Racule, T Rawasalevu, W Tuiwaqa, Sairusi Natuni and Inoke Cakutini.\nAt last the dream of Sewak Masih became a reality when the Fiji Teachers’ Union was formed to represent all the teachers of Fiji. Total strength of the Union in 1931 was 112 and this included 18 Fijian members. Membership of the Union was open to all the teachers teaching in Fiji irrespective of their race, colour and creed.\n\nAfter 1931 the Fiji Teachers’ Union members have been meeting regularly for their annual conferences during the first term school holidays. These meetings or conferences have been providing good opportunities to the teachers to meet each other and exchange their views and ideas. These meetings have been helping the members to make new acquaintances and learn new skills, ideas and knowledge through lectures and discussions. These conferences have also provided them a forum for active participation to further their professionalism and to update their rights and responsibilities.\nThe venues for these Annual General Meetings depended on the branch invitations but from 1931 to 1938 they were held alternatively in Suva and Lautoka. During these years the Presidency of the Union was shared by two prominent teachers of that time, Dildhar Ali Shah and Ami Chandra. In 1939 however, the Ba Branch of the Union invited them to hold the Conference there and it was a successful event. Nadi was the next branch, which hosted the eleventh Conference in 1941 when the President was Hari Charan, who became the longest serving President of the Union-17 years.\nOther teachers who served as President of the Union were James Madhwan(8 years),NR Ram Krishna (1 Year), Ambika Nand (3 years), J R Lochan(1 Year), K C Ramrakha(8 years), Krishna Dutt(3 years), Shiu N Kanhai(3 years), Shiu Charan, and Anil Sudhakar.\n\nThe FTU registered with the national government as a trade union in 1947.\n\nIn 1930, FTU president was Dildar Ali Shah and the Secretary was W K Phillip after the Lautoka Teachers' Association and the Suva Teachers' Association amalgamated and changed the name to Fiji Teachers' Union with \"The Child Our Hope\" as its motto. Dildar Shah served as President until 1933 when Ami Chandra took over and remained President until 1935. ref Dr. RL Prasad(1980)\n\nK. C. Ramrakha was President of the Fiji Teachers Union from 1967 to 1973. He was also elected the General Secretary of the National Federation Party. Ramrakha was the first non-teacher to hold the position of President. His election and his leading role in the National Federation Party caused the Fijian Teachers Association to withdraw from merger talks between the two unions.\n\nIn after Fiji won its independence in 1970 FTU and FTA formed the Fiji Teachers' Confederation to give them more collective bargaining power. About 1983 the President, J Singh and Vice President, Soubhagyawati Parshu Ram (first female) led the FTU Suva branch. Ms S P Ram is the daughter of former Parliamentarian, J B Tularam. The Confederation led a major teachers' strike in 1985 which led to the formation of the Fiji Labour Party. The formation of the Fiji Labour Party led to radical changes in Fijian politics (including two coups) in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe FTU remains competitive with the FTA for members. In 2005 and 2006, for example, many members of the FTA left that organization to join the FTU after the FTU founded a credit union which offered high interest rates on savings.\n\nIn 2006, the elected civilian government of Fiji was toppled in a military coup d'état. In 2007, the interim government instituted a 5 percent across-the-board wage cut for all public employees. Most public sector workers' unions struck in August 2007, seeking restoration of the salary cut and a reduction in the retirement age from 60 to 55. The FTU joined the strike.\n\nHistory and Development of Fiji Teachers' Union by Dr Ram L Prasad\n"}
{"id": "39398059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39398059", "title": "Fulldome Database", "text": "Fulldome Database\n\nFDDB – The Fulldome Database is an online community for people who are involved in the fulldome medium. FDDB is an independent provider of information about fulldome technologies which focuses on fulldome shows, events and news.\n\nFDDB is show-oriented and provides an online database where planetarium operators and fulldome professionals can get information about fulldome shows. Data can be browsed dynamically by numerous parameters: “genre”, “content”, “video format”, “license type”, “production company”, “director”, etc.\n\nFDDB's main goal is to stimulate the overall fulldome creativity.\n\nFDDB provides a web platform where information can be published and shared online.\nPrivate companies, planetariums, independent filmmakers, students as well as other sorts of fulldome producers can freely add content to FDDB.\n\nFDDB is not property of any planetarium vendor or video production company and does not produce, nor distribute, any in-house or third parties’ fulldome shows.\n\nFDDB is available as a free service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28677732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28677732", "title": "Haralambie Corbu", "text": "Haralambie Corbu\n\nHaralambie Corbu (born February 15, 1930, Dubăsarii Vechi) is a professor and author from the Republic of Moldova. She is a member of the Academy of Sciences of Moldova. Corbu was decorated with Moldova's highest state decoration – the Order of the Republic.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9755822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9755822", "title": "I'm from Rolling Stone", "text": "I'm from Rolling Stone\n\nI'm from Rolling Stone is a MTV reality television show directed by Norman Green. It began airing in January 2007 and was planned for ten episodes.\nSix aspiring music journalists were given the summer internships in hopes of getting a contributing editor position at Rolling Stone magazine.\n\nThe contestants included six twenty-somethings that applied through a write-in contest: Krishtine de Leon is a local hip-hop magazine editor from San Francisco, CA; Peter Maiden, an Australian college student at UC Berkeley; Tika Milan, a lesbian poet and freelance journalist from Brooklyn; Russell Morse, a former juvenile delinquent turned reporter for a local San Francisco newspaper; Krystal Ann Simpson from Salinas with a love for classic rock; and Colin Stutz, a 20-year-old University of Southern California student from Oregon.\n\nIn the last episode Jann Wenner, Joe Levy, and a team of senior editors individually reviewed all the contestants and their performance in the 2 months previous. Colin Stutz was perceived as a passionate person that looks like the rolling stone-type, however too \"green\" for a full-time position. Krystal Ann Simpson was the most enthusiastic about the idea for working at Rolling Stone, but was ultimately able to accomplish the least for the magazine. She was viewed as more attracted to the socialite, red carpet lifestyle, but uninterested in the actual work of being a music reporter. She was unable to produce any substance for the magazine, and was not considered as a viable candidate for the position. Russell Morse had the most raw talent as a writer, but was wildly irresponsible and showed no discipline as an employee. Failure to attend work regularly, tardiness, and disrespect for his superiors as well as interview subjects were cited as reasons for his exclusion. The editors felt that Peter Maiden was smart and enthusiastic, as well as a good employee but lacking journalistic experience. His failure to turn in professional caliber pieces worried the editors, but he was still noticed by Wenner, who considered giving him an additional internship. Krishtine was viewed arrogant in the beginning of the internship, but her knowledge of hip-hop was invaluable in the last four weeks. Tika Milan started very strong in the initial stages of the show, but it was perceived that she gave up towards the end, producing very little material and not aggressively pursuing stories.\n\nLater it was revealed that the winner of the year-long contributing editor position was Krishtine de Leon. It was speculated that her extensive understanding of hip-hop music and culture and her ability to turn in usable, relevant material was what catapulted her over the top.\n\nPeter Maiden is now a video editor for \"Rolling Stone\". He is also a bartender in New York. Tika Milan is a freelance writer for a new magazine called Dapper. Russell Morse returned to San Francisco and his position at New American Media. He now works as an Outreach Coordinator at a Youth Development Organization called The Door in Manhattan. Krystal Ann Simpson currently splits her time between Los Angeles and New York designing, modeling, and writing for her social commentary blog WhatisRealityAnyway.com. Colin Stutz returned to Los Angeles to complete his junior year at USC and work as the editorial assistant at Filter Magazine.\n\nThe show was plagued by low ratings, getting only 369,000 viewers for the premiere episode. To further exacerbate the problem, the show's time slot was also pushed back to 11 PM. The show was generally considered a flop due to very little promotion and its aim towards an older demographic, thus it was not renewed for a second season.\n"}
{"id": "48403135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48403135", "title": "IMMIT", "text": "IMMIT\n\nIMMIT Program is the acronym for International Master in Management of Information Technology.\n\nThe program is offered as a joint Degree collaboration between three European institutions:\n\n\nThe aim of the program is to capitalize on each University's strengths.\n\nFirst by starting on Management, then moving to Information Management and Integration of IS.\n"}
{"id": "52508058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52508058", "title": "IONISx", "text": "IONISx\n\nIONISx is a for-profit, educational technology company that offers massive open online courses (MOOCs) as well as online degrees and certifications. IONISx works with universities and other organizations to make some of their courses available online. IONISx was established in 2013, in collaboration with ISG Business School, ISEFAC Bachelor, EPITA, Epitech, IPSA, E-Artsup, Sup'Internet and ETNA.\n"}
{"id": "33057143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33057143", "title": "Jim Doughan", "text": "Jim Doughan\n\nJames Francis Doughan (born August 2, 1959) is an American actor, writer, and teacher. He is perhaps best known for his roles as Detective Doyle in The Mask (1994) and Detective Allen as well as the voice of Lucky the cat in Stuart Little (1999). He is currently a performing arts teacher at Harvard-Westlake School in Los Angeles, California.\n\nDoughan was born on August 2, 1959 to Leo F. Doughan and Nancy J. Doughan of Apple Valley, Minnesota, who were originally from Chicago. His father was an independent sales representative for carpet mills.\n\nDoughan has been working as a professional actor and writer since 1981 in theatre, film, and television. He was a resident company member for the Dudley Rigg’s Brave New Workshop in Minneapolis from 1981-1985, and the Los Angeles comedy theatre The Groundlings from 1985-1993. He has played roles in films such as The Flintstones, The Mask, Stuart Little, Stuart Little 2, The Haunted Mansion, Evan Almighty, and Hotel for Dogs, he has also guest starred in several television series. Before becoming a performing arts teacher at Harvard-Westlake School Doughan taught History, English and Drama at the Westridge School in Pasadena, California. He has been a mentor for student writers, and a director for the Harvard-Westlake School Playwright’s Workshop, he has taught at the Harvard-Westlake School Summer Intensive Actor’s Workshop as well as an improvisation master class at USC Business School and Execuprov in Orange County, California.\n\nDoughan attended Apple Valley High School in Apple Valley, Minnesota and graduated in 1977. He also attended the University of Minnesota Duluth in Duluth, Minnesota where he received his BFA degree in theatre.\n\nDoughan married Kate Benton in 1988. Benton is an actress and writer who was also a member of The Groundlings.\n"}
{"id": "44173097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44173097", "title": "Julia Bastin", "text": "Julia Bastin\n\nJulia Bastin (June 16, 1888 – October 26, 1968) was a Belgian academic, educator and novelist.\n\nShe was born in Liège and grew up there. Bastin studied at The Hague, earning a diploma that allowed her to teach Dutch. From 1912 to 1914, she taught at a middle school in Braine-le-Comte. Bastin spent World War I in England and studied languages at Bedford College, particularly French literature from the Middle Ages. She was also a teaching assistant for French conversation and composition courses at the college. Afterwards, she taught in secondary schools in Derbyshire and then Yorkshire. From 1920 to 1931, she lived in Paris, attending the École pratique des hautes études and the Sorbonne where she studied Old French and Old Occitan. She was able to attend classes taught by Alfred Jeanroy and Edmond Faral.\n\nIn 1928, she translated Aldous Huxley's novel Crome Yellow into French as \"Jaune de Crome\". In 1932, she translated Johan Huizinga's \"Herfsttijd der Middeleeuwen\" into French as \"Le déclin du Moyen Âge\". That same year, she translated Huxley's \"Those Barren Leaves\" into French as \"Marina di Vezza\"; that translation was awarded the Académie française's Prix Langlois.\n\nIn 1929 and 1930, Bastin published the two volumes of \"Recueil général des Isopets\", a collection of fables from the Middle Ages. With Edmond Faral, she was editor for \"Onze Poèmes concernant la Croisade, par Rutebeuf\", published in 1946, and for \"Œuvres complètes de Rutebeuf\", which was released in two volumes in 1958 and 1960.\n\nIn 1931, she joined the Romance studies department of the Université libre de Bruxelles. She became the first female member of the Académie royale de langue et de littérature françaises de Belgique in 1947.\n\nBastin died in Sint-Agatha-Berchem at the age of 80.\n"}
{"id": "43306915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43306915", "title": "LA GRANDEE International College", "text": "LA GRANDEE International College\n\nLA GRANDEE International College (formerly known as Pokhara College of Technology, or PCT) was established in 2000 as Pokhara's first College for BCA program. Now, the college runs the other programs like BBA and BPH along with BCA.\n\nLA GRANDEE International College is located in Pokhara city of Kaski district.\n\nLA GRANDEE International College is a Pokhara University affiliated college. It uses a semester system. All bachelor's degrees are of four years (delivered over eight semesters).\n\nThere are four programs:\n"}
{"id": "27161518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27161518", "title": "Mahendra Higher Secondary School", "text": "Mahendra Higher Secondary School\n\nMahendra Higher Secondary School is the oldest school in Darchula district, Nepal. The school operates through class six to ten and also plus two which is the Higher Education of Nepal. Students from Darchula district and from other districts attend the school.\n"}
{"id": "53094973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53094973", "title": "Math Blaster!", "text": "Math Blaster!\n\nMath Blaster! is a 1983 educational video game, and the first entry in the \"Math Blaster\" series within the Blaster Learning System. The game was developed by former educator Jan Davidson. It would be remade and re-released a number of times starting with \"Math Blaster Plus!\" and followed by \"New Math Blaster Plus\". A complete makeover over was done for \"\" in 1993.\n\nThe game eventually spawned other Math Blaster games and spin-offs such as \"Alge Blaster\", \"Reading Blaster\" and \"\".\n\nAn arcade-style educational game that offers skill-building mathematical exercises, The title contains minigames that test players' knowledge in subjects such as particular addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, fractions, percentages, and decimals. A series of mathematics problems appear on the screen, and the player must move to fire the cannon pointing at the correct answer. The game included an editor for teachers and parents to design their own problems.\n\nWhile this title was purely a drill and practice, its 1987 sequel would wrap the activity around a narrative.\n\nMath Blaster was designed to aid students to master mathematics grades 1 through 6 in an exciting and interesting manner. The learning activities were graphically-appealing in motivating and challenging students.\n\nAfter it was developed, Math Blaster! was extensively tested in classrooms. By November 2, 1985, the game had sustained 92 weeks on the Billboard charts for Top Education Computing Software, and was currently at #2. The game, plus its various sequels and spin-offs, has since become the best-selling piece of maths software in history.\n\n\"InfoWorld\" praised the game for its high resolution graphics, and considered it a standout title in the drill-and-practice edutainment video game genre, and deemed it a perfect teache's aid primary school classroom use.\n\nThe game inspired a series of maths problem solving games that would become a popular series in the marketplace. Along with \"Reader Rabbit\" and \"The Oregon Trail\", the game is considered a classic.\n"}
{"id": "44431166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44431166", "title": "Matriculation exam (Finland)", "text": "Matriculation exam (Finland)\n\nThe Finnish Matriculation Examination (Finnish \"ylioppilastutkinto\", Swedish \"studentexamen\") is the examination taken at the end of secondary education to qualify for entry into university. The test also constitutes the high school's final exam(s); in other words, it is a high school graduation exam. Since 1919, the test has been arranged by a national body, the Matriculation Examination Board. Before that, the administration of the test was the responsibility of the University of Helsinki.\n\nUnder a previous law, successful completion entitled one to enroll as a university student (hence \"matriculation\"). Although the legal requirement has been lifted, matriculation without completing the test is still an exception. The universities are now free to arrange their own entrance examinations in addition to considering scores from the matriculation examination. Thus, universities accept students based on the entrance exam points, the matriculation exam points, and also a combined score of these two. Successfully passing the test entitles one to wear the Finnish student cap.\n\nEach examinee is required to participate in at least four tests in order to pass the exam. the only mandatory part of the test is that of \"äidinkieli\" (\"mother tongue\"; Finnish for most students, Swedish, Northern Sámi, Inari Sámi, or Skolt Sámi for some), including a composition test. The student then has to choose three other subjects from:\nThe exam takes place at schools according to minute regulations laid out by the national board. Each exam takes six hours. After the exam, the teachers grade the papers and send the graded papers to the national board which then re-grades every paper. The grading of the exam may be appealed against. In this case, the board re-examines the grading. The result of the re-examination is final and cannot be appealed to any authority.\n\nThe score of each test varies with the subject. For example, the maximum score for the test in Finnish or Swedish as a first language is 114 points, in mathematics 66 points and in foreign languages 299 points. The tests are graded according to normal distribution into seven verbal grades with Latin names: \"improbatur\" (I), \"approbatur\" (A), \"lubenter approbatur\" (B), \"cum laude approbatur\" (C), \"magna cum laude approbatur\" (M), \"eximia cum laude approbatur\" (E) and \"laudatur\" (L), from bottom to top. (A rough literal translation of the grades is \"not approved\", \"approved\", \"gladly approved\", \"approved with praise\", \"approved with much praise\", \"approved with exceptional praise\", and \"praised\"/\"lauded\".) In general, at least the grade A is required for the test to be passed. The grades received by the students generally follow a distribution of:\n\nThis distribution is such that one grade on the scale is equivalent to approximately one standard deviation; 64% are within M-B and 90% within E-A.\n\nTraditionally, the test is taken in the spring, but it is also arranged every autumn and may be taken in up to three parts. Thus completing the matriculation exam may take up to one and a half years. Usually, the last set of exams is taken at the end of the third year in upper secondary school. The exams take place in late March, but for the school-leavers, the school ends in mid-February, giving the students ample time to prepare for the test in solitary study. This occasion is celebrated by the traditional festivity of penkkarit.\n\nStudents who receive an \"improbatur\" in any of the obligatory exams fail the entire exam. However, a single failed obligatory exam may be compensated for by good results in other exams. Based on the compensation system, the total exam score of the student is calculated and compared with the result of the failed test. To receive their diploma, a student must accumulate sufficient compensation points from the other exams. The \"improbatur\" is divided into four classes (i+, i, i−, i=), each describing the degree of a student's failure (i+ is the least failure), and each class has its own number of compensation points needed for an acceptable result (12, 14, 16 and 18 respectively). Points from accepted exams are awarded as follows: \"L\", seven points; \"E\", six; \"M\", five; \"C\", four; \"B\", three and \"A\", two.\n\nThe Matriculation Examination is currently under a process of digitalisation. The first digital tests were held in the autumn of 2016 in geography, philosophy and German language. The last test to become digital will be the mathematics test in spring 2019. From then on traditional paper tests will no longer be organised. The new digital system worth 3-5 million euros is being built by Finnish tech company Reaktor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54058217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54058217", "title": "Maxim Bilovitskiy", "text": "Maxim Bilovitskiy\n\nMaxim Bilovitskiy (born in Maardu, Estonia, on 8 November 1992) is an Estonian Youtuber and scientific photographer. In 2011, he created the Russian YouTube channel \"Thoisoi.\" His channel has amassed more than 100 million views and has over 890,000 subscribers. His hobby is popularizing science and creating educational videos. In 2014, he created a second channel for his English speaking followers. That channel has over 233,000 subscribers and has more than 22 million views.\n\nIn 2014, he graduated from Tallinn University of Technology of Chemical and Materials Technology with a Faculty of Food Technology and Product Development undergraduate degree. In 2016, he earned his master's degree in the same university.\n\nIn 2015, his video of superconductor properties won best in the Estonian science photo competition for the best in the category of \"other media files,\" and his other photograph of lactose crystals was the second-place winner of the \"microscope photographs.\" His YBCO superconductor video went on the win the European Science Photo Competition in the same category.\n"}
{"id": "6011779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6011779", "title": "Mr. Know It Owl", "text": "Mr. Know It Owl\n\nMr. Know-It-Owl's Video School was a series of videos released on videocassette, and later repurposed to interactive CD-ROM, and is hosted by a purple owl puppet. The Mr. Know-It-Owl series was copyrighted by Apollo Educational Video (the home video arm of AIMS Media, later AIMS Multimedia). Aimed at younger children, Mr. Know-It-Owl (a play on \"know-it-all\"), attempts to educate children in safety, health, grammar, and the three Rs. There were over 10 videos released and a series of CD-ROM. The main characters were Phineas (a firefly), Scooter McGruder (a puppet child with red hair), and of course, Mr. Know-It-Owl (the purple owl with glasses).\n\nMr. Know-It-Owl mostly has purple feathers but has shiny blue ones over his chest area and wears yellowish circular glasses. He lives inside a tree hollowed out to be his home. It includes a bookshelf with several books. He also has a globe, on which the firefly perched from time to time. A chalkboard appeared in one episode. While teaching a lesson, Mr. Know-It-Owl uses \"the Window of Knowledge,\" which is a round window near the top of his tree that opens up before the video tutorial begins.\n\nMr. Know-It-Owl returned in a series of Interactive CD-ROM in 1997 where he was voiced by AIMS Multimedia co-president and an executive producer of the series- David S. Sherman, Ph.D.\n\nScooter is a curious young boy with red hair, green eyes, and a yellow shirt with the letter \"E\" on it in red. He is often the one that is instructed by Mr. Know-It-Owl.\n\nPhineas is a firefly that lives with Mr. Know-It-Owl in his treehouse; his full name is Phineas T. Firefly.\n\nOver 10 videos of the Mr. Know-It-Owl series were made. The following video titles are listed below, along with their summaries.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe series was later re-purposed into the interactive CD-ROM by AIMS Multimedia co-president and executive producer David S. Sherman and software architect Richard Williams, both of whom went on to design and produce AIMS Multimedia's DigitalCurriculum in 1999, the first educational video streaming software as a service (SaaS), a video curriculum on demand which was later sold to the Discovery Channel in 2004. The CD-ROM Mr. Know-It-Owl character was also voiced by Dr. Sherman.\n\n"}
{"id": "57848608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57848608", "title": "National Platform Open Science", "text": "National Platform Open Science\n\nThe National Platform Open Science (NPOS) – (in Dutch: \"Nationaal Platform Open Science\") – in The Netherlands is a collaboration of 17 Dutch organisations of higher education and research intent on realising Open Science. Among its members are the Umbrella organisation of Dutch universities (VSNU), the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (KNAW), the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO), the National Library of the Netherlands (KB), and the like. The Platform brings together the parties that have initiated, formulated, or support the \"National Plan Open Science\", that has been presented to the Dutch government in the beginning of 2017. \nNPOS aims to promote open access to scholarly literature and re-use of research data, and has appointed the ex-\"Rector Magnificus\", Karel Luyben, (President, or in the UK also Vice-Chancellor) of the Delft University of Technology in The Netherlands as \"National Coordinator Open Science\". The organisation aims furthermore to reform the manner in which researchers are assessed in such a way that the assessment actually stimulates open science. \n\nNPOS notes a lack of openness in the scientific culture demonstrated, for instance, by published articles describing research paid for by public funds and of interest to a wide audience habitually being behind paywalls, or access to them being otherwise encumbered. In addition to that, the publish or perish culture prevalent in science incentivises researchers to publish, as much as possible, in journals with a high citation score. And finally, the organisation is drawing attention to the lack of research data stewardship, as a result of which valuable data sets regularly are being lost, research cannot be replicated, or experiments need to be carried out again without the benefit of being able to use what has been done before.\nThe ideal of open access to scientific research results is a worldwide ambition in the scientific world and has been around for a few decades, but progress is considered too slow, as the Budapest Open Access Initiative was already launched in 2001 followed, in 2003, by the Bethesda Statement on Open Access Publishing and subsequently by a whole series of other, similar, declarations. The issue is gradually reaching the agendas of government policy in countries, states, and supra-national organisations such as the EU, and in 2013 this was the case in The Netherlands, where the government declared that open access to published results must be the standard for scientific research carried out in the country. In 2016, during its stint as EU chair, the Dutch government organised a conference on open science, upon which a report was published entitled \"Amsterdam Call for Action on Open Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "10074227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10074227", "title": "National sports team", "text": "National sports team\n\nA national sports team (commonly known as a national team or a national side) is a team that represents a nation, rather than a particular club or region, in an international sport.\n\nThe term is most commonly associated with team sports. However, it can be applied to groups of individuals representing a country where regular play is done by individuals, and individual scores are aggregated to a get a team result.\n\nNational teams often compete at various levels and age groups, and have a number of different selection criteria. National teams are not always composed of the best available individual players.\n\nNational teams, like other sporting teams, are often grouped by sex, age or other criteria. The most prestigious national teams are often the senior men's and women's teams. However, they may not be the most popular or successful.\n\nIn most cases, a national sports team represents a single sovereign state. In several sports, the British Isles divides along internal boundaries: England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales are represented by separate national teams, while in the Olympic Games they combine to form a Great Britain team. The Ireland national rugby union team represents the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland in rugby union, and all-island teams are fielded in a number of other sports. Some Olympic teams represent dependent territories, including Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands and the Cook Islands. The Iroquois Nationals (men) and Haudenosaunee Nationals (women) lacrosse teams of the First Nations Lacrosse Association are the only teams representing any group of Indigenous people of the Americas that plays in an international level.\n\nThe popularity and notability of a national team depend on a number of factors.\n\nPopularity of a national team also depends on the popularity of the sport in that country. In some countries a particular sport is very popular and may be a national sport. A national team may be popular even though the competition it competes in is not. For example, the Papua New Guinea national rugby league team is extremely popular because the sport is popular in the country, even though the highest competition it competes in - the Rugby League World Cup - is not. In that case, one can see that, even though the sport is popular in that country, the general level they are playing is not so high or lower than other countries that they want to compete with. For example, even if the Korean national handball league team is not so popular because handball is not a popular sport in Korea, they sometimes get gold medals in Olympics or World Cup Games. In this case, the game they participate in may become more popular and influence its popularity. \n\nA particular sport in a country may be more popular among certain groups. For example, a women's team may be more popular than a men's team if there is a greater participation in the sport.\n\nThe popularity of the international competition that a team participates in has the biggest influence on the popularity of national sports team. There is a certain amount of prestige which is associated with competing on the \"world stage\".\n\nCompetitions with the most teams involved offer the most international competition and are often most popular. The most popular multi-sport international competitions that include team sports include the Olympic Games, Commonwealth Games are relatively open for participation. Other competitions that are specific to sports, such as the FIFA World Cup (Association football), Rugby World Cup (rugby union) and Cricket World Cup (cricket) allow many countries to qualify. For instance, the popularity of the Socceroos is heightened during the FIFA World Cup simply due to participation in a global event.\n\nHowever, how even the competition is also matters. Even if there are a large number of participants, if a handful of teams dominate or if many of the teams are from countries where the sport lack sufficient depth to field a quality side, then the overall competition will not be taken seriously.\n\nPopularity of a national team can also be due to a team being successful even if the sport itself is not popular in a country.\n\nIn many countries, the national team is the highest level of play available and as a result, it is often most popular with fans and spectators from that country.\n\nIn other countries, domestic competitions may be more competitive and offer a higher standard of play and reward.\n\nDepending on the sport, nation, and era in question, membership on the national team maybe earned through individual play (as is the case for an Olympic athletics team or a Davis Cup team), players may be selected by a managers and coaches appointed by a national sport association, or a team may have to win a national championship in order to receive the right to represent their nation (as in the World Curling Championships).\n\nVarious rules are used to determine who is eligible to play for which national team.\n\nUnder FIFA regulations, a player primarily qualifies for a national team by \"holding a permanent nationality that is not dependent on residence in a certain country\"—i.e., being a passport-carrying citizen of said country.\n\nIf a player's single nationality enables him or her to play for more than one FIFA member, any of the following will be sufficient to establish eligibility for a specific association under that nationality:\n\nHowever, FIFA allows associations that share a common nationality to make an agreement among themselves, subject to FIFA approval, by which the residency criterion is deleted completely or amended to require a longer time limit. The most notable example of this situation is the United Kingdom, which has four national associations on its territory (England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales).\n\nPlayers become permanently tied to a national association, with one exception to be outlined below, once they play in \"an official competition of any category or any type of football\". This includes any competition for national teams governed by FIFA, including qualifying matches for said competitions; international friendlies cannot tie players to a country under any circumstances.\n\nPlayers who have more than one nationality, regardless of the method of acquisition, have slightly different eligibility requirements from those who have a single nationality, whether or not it is shared by multiple associations. In addition to holding the relevant nationality, any of the following will qualify a player to appear for said country:\n\nThis last rule is intended to prevent associations from naturalising players who lack birth or familial ties in that country, and immediately fielding them in international matches. FIFA will issue waivers to this last requirement if an association can show to FIFA's satisfaction that the player had significant ties to that country prior to naturalisation. A recent example of such a waiver is that of Gedion Zelalem, a German-born player of Ethiopian descent who currently represents the U.S. at under-23 level. He emigrated with his father to the U.S. at age 9 in 2006, and left the country at age 16 to join Arsenal's youth academy. In 2014, he automatically became a U.S. citizen outside the normal naturalisation process when his father became a U.S. citizen, and the United States Soccer Federation applied for a waiver of the adult residency requirement, citing Zelalem's extended childhood residence in the U.S. He was approved to play for the U.S. several months later.\n\nSeparate from the above rules, a player who holds multiple nationalities may petition FIFA for a one-time change of nationality if he or she has never appeared in an official \"senior\" international match for any country, and holds the nationality of the second country prior to appearing for said country. The aforementioned Zelalem case falls within the scope of these rules, since he had played for Germany at youth level.\n\nFIBA's national team eligibility rules are broadly similar to those of FIFA. Holding nationality is mandatory (but not sufficient) for eligibility to represent a country. Players with multiple nationalities may choose to play for of one of those countries at any age by making a written request to FIBA. However, if the player has yet to make a choice and one of those countries formally calls the player to international duty after he or she reaches age 18, that player is required to make a choice at that time. As in association football, playing in an international friendly cannot tie a player to any country; only participation in an official FIBA competition is sufficient for this purpose.\n\nUnlike association football, FIBA does not have a \"grandparent rule\" for most players. The method by which a player obtains citizenship is irrelevant to national team eligibility, as long as it has been legally acquired. The only use of the grandparent rule is to determine a player's eligibility to represent the national team of a country's dependent territory, with two notable examples being those of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands, both US insular areas with their own national federations, and whose native-born residents are US citizens by birth.\n\nWhile the method by which a player becomes a citizen does not affect his or her eligibility for a national team, it can affect the player's ability to participate in a given FIBA competition. FIBA mandates that in official competitions, no national team can have more than one player on its roster who acquired citizenship by any means after reaching age 16. This also applies to individuals who had the right to a second nationality at birth (such as individuals born in Northern Ireland, who are generally born with UK citizenship but also have the right to citizenship in the Republic of Ireland from birth), but did not exercise that right until age 16 or later.\n\nUnlike the situation in association football and basketball, in which holding nationality in a country is a requirement for representing that country, eligibility regulations in rugby union do not mention nationality at all. Players can qualify for a given country in one of four ways:\nThis does not prevent a national union from requiring that its representative players hold that country's nationality. For example, since December 2016, the French Rugby Federation has required French nationality as a precondition for national team selection, with players who had represented France before the policy change exempt from said requirement.\n\nNormally, if a player has ever played for one national team then he or she may not play for the team of a different nation at same or at the next-higher level of seniority. However, the addition of rugby sevens to the Olympics created a loophole due to the IOC's different eligibility criteria. Players who have been \"captured\" by one country but hold the passport of another country can make a one-time change of allegiance to the second country under the following conditions:\n\nAs for the concept of \"capturing\"—i.e., being tied to a specific country—the criteria have evolved over the years. Under current World Rugby regulations, a player is captured once he or she plays for one of three specific teams:\n\nNote that unlike association football or basketball, players can be captured by appearing in international friendlies, such as the traditional mid-year and end-of-year Tests.\n\nHowever, capture only occurs \"when the opponent is also one of the above-mentioned sides\". This can sometimes cause apparently counterintuitive results. For example, Mike Haley has represented England twice—first for England Saxons against South Africa A in 2016, and then for a non-capped England XV against the Barbarians in 2017. However, neither match tied him to England, and he remains eligible for selection to Ireland, for which he qualifies by ancestry. Even though the 2016 match involved two national \"A\" sides, it did not qualify to capture Haley (or any other player on either team who had not previously been captured) because at the time, South Africa's designated \"next senior\" side was its U-20 national team. As for the 2017 match, WR classifies the Barbarians as a club team, putting them outside the scope of this regulation.\n\nVarious controversies have involved the participation of players whose eligibility has been challenged. One famous example was Grannygate. More recently, questions have been raised about the eligibility of two players who participated in the European qualifying process for the 2019 Rugby World Cup, one for Belgium and the other for Romania.\n\nIn some national teams representatives play for the love of their sport and country. However, in others, individual players are paid to represent their country.\n\nIn some cases, players are either deliberately excluded or choose not to represent their national team on the basis of not being remunerated. This can affect the relative performance of a team. For instance, after allowing professional players, the USA men's national basketball team dramatically jumped up the world rankings.\n\nIn other cases, players may be contracted to a club, at home or abroad. As a result, their primary loyalty may be to their club rather than their country, especially if the competition that the national team is playing in does not offer the same prestige.\n\nEastern bloc countries were notorious for skirting the edge of the rules by having state-sponsored \"full-time amateurs\". Their Olympic athletes were given everything they needed to live and train, but were not technically paid to do it, and all the money came from the government.\n\n"}
{"id": "16825699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16825699", "title": "Ofqual", "text": "Ofqual\n\nThe Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual) is a non-ministerial government department that regulates qualifications, exams and tests in England and, until May 2016, vocational qualifications in Northern Ireland. Colloquially and publicly, Ofqual is often referred to as the exam \"watchdog\".\n\nOfqual's role is \"to maintain standards and confidence in qualifications.\"\n\nIt regulates exams, qualifications and tests in England. Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland are regulated by each respective national government. However, the Scottish Qualifications Authority SQA is also accredited by Ofqual. Ofqual collaborates closely with the UK government and the Department for Education on general qualifications, such as GCSEs and A levels, and with the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on vocational qualifications such as NVQs and BTECs. In Northern Ireland it regulated NVQs on behalf of the Department for Employment and Learning until May 2016; this responsibility has since been handed to the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment. Ofqual is the authority which regulates and accredits British examination boards offering GCSEs and GCE A levels while it is the JCQ which regulates administration of actual GCSE and A Level examinations.\n\nThe Conservative Party under Prime Minister David Cameron initiated reforms for A Levels to change from the current modular to a linear structure. British Examination Boards (Edexcel, AQA and OCR) regulated and accredited by Ofqual responded to the government's reform announcements by modifying syllabi of several A Level subjects. However, the Labour Party and in particular the Member of Parliament Tristram Hunt announced that it will halt and reverse the reforms and maintain the modular A-Level system. The Universities of Oxford and Cambridge have expressed support for the modular system.\n\nRecent reports reveal that the linear examination approach and the toughening educational reforms initiated by Ofqual provoked many schools to \"play the system\" by enquiring test remarking and supplementary aid for students (e.g. special consideration and extra time) in order to uphold high exam grade levels so as to not drop in league tables.\n\nRising numbers of students taking GCSEs and GCE A Levels over the past decades has led to an increase in the quantity of examination results being enquired for re-marking and reported to Ofqual.\n\nOfqual's remit and responsibilities are established in law by the Apprenticeships, Skills, Children and Learning Act 2009 and the Education Act 2011. As a Non-ministerial department Ofqual is accountable to Parliament, through the Education Select Committee. It is not accountable to Government ministers and as such is independent from Ministerial Government. Whereas Ofqual regulates and accredits British examination boards (e.g. Edexcel, AQA, OCR etc.) and their GCSE and GCE A-Level specifications; the examination board CIE (Cambridge International Examinations) which offers international GCSEs and GCE A-Levels predominantly for schools outside the United Kingdom operates independently without British governmental intervention. Therefore, although CIE qualifications are accredited by Ofqual, they are not regulated by it and thus may differ significantly in subject content and exam structure from UK GCSEs and GCE A-Levels.\n\nOfqual's Chair is Roger Taylor, who was appointed in 2016. Sally Collier was appointed Chief Regulator and CEO from April 2016. Other members of the Board include Professor Julius Weinberg and Dr. Mike Cresswell.\n\nIt has four directorates:\n\n"}
{"id": "9564848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9564848", "title": "Patricia Symmonds", "text": "Patricia Symmonds\n\nDame Olga Patricia Symmonds, GCM, DBE (born 18 October 1925), best known as Patricia Symmonds, is a Barbadian politician, member of the Senate of Barbados and a former teacher.\n\nThe only daughter of Algernon French Symmonds and his wife, Olga (née Harper), she is the elder sister of Barbadian diplomat, Algernon Washington Symmonds. She was educated at Queen's College, Barbados, and travelled to the United Kingdom to study at the University of Reading and the Institute of Education. \n\nAs a teacher from 1945–85, she was Deputy Principal of the St. Michael School, Saint Michael, Barbados from 1963–76, then Principal of the school from 1976-85. She was a part-time lecturer and tutor at Cave Hill Campus from 1963-65. \n\nSince 1994, she has been a Senator of Barbados and was a member of the Privy Council of Barbados from 1997 to 2000. She was created a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2000. \n\n"}
{"id": "13189108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13189108", "title": "Paul Draper (philosopher)", "text": "Paul Draper (philosopher)\n\nPaul Draper (born 1957) is an American philosopher, most known for his work in the philosophy of religion. His work on the evidential argument from evil has been widely influential. He is currently a professor at Purdue University. He is co-editor of topics in the philosophy of religion for the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy.\n\nHe studied at the University of California, graduating B.A. in 1979, M.A. in 1982 and Ph.D. in 1985. He taught philosophy at Florida International University between 1987 and 2006, when he moved to Purdue University.\n\nPaul Draper was editor of the academic journal \"Philo\" from 2007 to 2012. His philosophical inquiry is focused on issues in the philosophy of religion; he has written extensively on the problem of evil, including the argument that the process of natural selection is sufficiently brutal so as to pose a problem for those who believe in an omnipotent and morally good creator. In 1997, he debated Christian apologist William Lane Craig over the existence of God. He has edited a debate collection called \"God or Blind Nature? Philosophers Debate the Evidence\", released as an e-book in 2007. \n\nOne of Draper's influential and widely reprinted papers is \"Pain and Pleasure: An Evidential Problem for Theists\", published in the journal \"Noûs\" in 1989. In it, Draper proposes a modification and extension of the \"problem of evil\" argument. Instead of claiming that the existence of evil logically contradicts theism, he argues that the \"hypothesis of indifference\", which holds that should supernatural beings exist, they are indifferent to our suffering, better explains the existence of suffering. Since the hypothesis of indifference is logically incompatible with theism, he considers this an evidentiary problem for theism. The paper relies significantly on the use of epistemic probabilities, equivalent to those used in Bayesian reasoning. He is also responsible for first coining the term \"skeptical theism.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1317694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317694", "title": "Performance studies", "text": "Performance studies\n\nPerformance studies is an interdisciplinary field that studies performance and uses performance as a lens to study the world. The term 'performance' is broad, and can include artistic and aesthetic performances like concerts, theatrical events, and performance art; sporting events; social, political and religious events like rituals, ceremonies, proclamations and public decisions; certain kinds of language use; and those components of identity which require someone to do, rather than just be, something. Consequently, performance studies is interdisciplinary, drawing from theories of the performing arts, anthropology and sociology, literary theory, and legal studies.\n\nPerformance Studies has been challenged as an emerging discipline. Many academics have been critical of its instability. As an academic field it is difficult to pin down; either that is the nature of the field itself or it is still too young to tell. There are, however, numerous degree-granting programs that train researchers being offered by universities. Some have referred to it as an \"inter discipline\" or a \"post discipline\".\n\nPerformance Studies tends to concentrate on a mix of research methods. The application of practice-led or practice-based research methods has become a widespread phenomenon not just in the anglophone world. As such research projects integrate established methods like literature research and oral history with performance practice, i.e. artistic autoethnographic approaches and verbatim theatre. The documentation of \"Practice-as-Research in Performance\" (PARIP), a devoted research project conducted at the University of Bristol between 2001 and 2006, offers a number of inspiring articles and portraits of such research projects and was key for a breakthrough of using creative thinking within this subject field.\n\nRichard Schechner author of \"Performance Studies: An Introduction\" states that Performance studies examine performances in two categories: Artistic and Cultural Performances. A. Artistic Performance are marked and understood as art. solo-performance, performance art, performance of literature, theatrical storytelling, plays, and performance poetry, This category considers performance as the art form. B. Cultural Performance includes events that occur in everyday life in which a culture values are displayed for their perpetuation: rituals such as parades, religious ceremonies, community festivals, controversial storytelling, and performances of social and professional roles, and individual performances of race, gender, sexuality and class. \n\nPerformance Studies as an academic field has multiple origin narratives. On the theatrical and anthropological front, this origin is often regarded as the research collaborations of director Richard Schechner and anthropologist Victor Turner. This origin narrative emphasizes a definition of performance as being \"between theatre and anthropology\" and often stresses the importance of intercultural performances as an alternative to either traditional proscenium theatre or traditional anthropological fieldwork. Dwight Conquergood developed a branch of performance ethnography that centered the political nature of the practice and advocated for methodological dialogism from the point of encounter to the practices of research reporting. Barbara Kirshenblatt-Gimblett has contributed an interest in tourist productions and ethnographic showmanship to the field, Judd Case has adapted performance to the study of media and religion, Diana Taylor has brought a hemispheric perspective on Latin American performance and theorized the relationship between the archive and the performance repertoire, while Corinne Kratz developed a mode of performance analysis that emphasizes the role of multimedia communication in performance. Laurie Frederik argues for the importance of ethnographic research and a solid theoretical base in anthropological perspective.\n\nOn the literature front, Wallace Bacon (1914–2001), considered by many to be the father of performance theory, taught the performance of literature as the ultimate act of humility. In his defining statement of performance theory, \"Our center is in the interaction between readers and texts which enriches, extends, clarifies, and (yes) alters the interior and even the exterior lives of students [and performers and audiences] through the power of texts\" (\"Literature in Performance\", Vol 5 No 1, 1984; p. 84). In addition, Robert Breen's text \"Chamber Theatre\" is a cornerstone in the field for staging narrative texts, though it remains controversial in its assertions about the place of narrative details in chamber productions. Breen is also regarded by many as a founding theorist for the discipline, along with advocate Louise Rosenblatt. More recently, performance theorist and novelist Barbara Browning has suggested that narrative fiction itself—and particularly the novel—demands the performative participation of the reader.\n\nAn alternative origin narrative stresses the development of speech-act theory by philosophers J.L. Austin and Judith Butler, literary critic Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, and also Shoshana Felman. The theory proposed by Austin in \"How To Do Things With Words\" states that \"to say something \"is to do something\", or \"in\" saying something we do something, and even \"by\" saying something we do something\". the most illustrative example being \"I do\", as part of a marriage ceremony. For any of these performative utterances to be felicitous, per Austin, they must be true, appropriate and conventional according to those with the proper authority: a priest, a judge, or the scholar, for instance. Austin accounts for the infelicitous by noting that \"there will always occur difficult or marginal cases where nothing in the previous history of a conventional procedure will decide conclusively whether such a procedure is or is not correctly applied to such a case\". The possibility of failure in performatives (utterances made with language and the body) is taken up by Butler and is understood as the \"political promise of the performative\". Her argument is that because the performative needs to maintain conventional power, convention itself has to be reiterated, and in this reiteration it can be expropriated by the unauthorized usage and thus create new futures. She cites Rosa Parks as an example:\nWhen Rosa Parks sat in the front of the bus, she had no prior right to do so guaranteed by any…conventions of the South. And yet, in laying claim to the right for which she had no prior authorization, she endowed a certain authority on the act, and began the insurrectionary process of overthrowing those established codes of legitimacy.\nThe question of the infelicitous utterance (the misfire)is also taken up by Shoshana Felman when she states \"Infelicity, or failure, is not for Austin an accident of the performative, it is inherent in it, essential to it. In other words…Austin conceives of failure not as external but as internal to the promise, as what actually constitutes it.\"\n\nPerformance studies has also had a strong relationship to the fields of feminism, psychoanalysis, critical race theory and queer theory. Theorists like Peggy Phelan, José Esteban Muñoz, E. Patrick Johnson, Rebecca Schneider, and André Lepecki have been equally influential in both performance studies and these related fields.\n\nPerformance studies incorporates theories of drama, dance, art, anthropology, folkloristics, philosophy, cultural studies, psychology, sociology, comparative literature, communication studies, and increasingly, music performance. More can be found out by reading Schechner's book: \"Performance Studies: An Introduction\" or in D. Soyini Madison and Judith Hamera's The Sage Handbook for Performance Studies. The first performance studies department was created at NYU. However, there is some debate that the joint-cradles of Performance Studies are Northwestern University and NYU. For more information on the different origins and disciplinary traditions of performance studies see Shannon Jackson's book \"Professing Performance\" and the introductory chapter in Nathan Stucky and Cynthia Wimmer's \"Teaching Performance Studies\". Generally the differences between the NYU and Northwestern models cite different disciplinary concerns. NYU is generally characterized as a program that pushed the definitions of theatrical practice influenced by the thearical avant-garde thus expanding its definition of what can be framed as an event. Interaction with departments that include NYU's Postdoctoral Program in Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy have made this an ongoing pursuit. Northwestern transitioned from an elocution and performance of literature tradition to expand its definition of presentational aesthetics beyond oral interpretation. Northwestern's unique brand of performance studies has its origins in anthropology, having been started by the ethnographer Dwight Conquergood with the goal of understanding all manner of local cultures through their performance practices. In both instances a focus on practice lead to a research methodology beyond theatre or literature/speech. In the United States, the interdisciplinary and multi-focus field has spread to Brown, UCLA, University of Northern Iowa, UCI, UC Berkeley, and elsewhere. Undergraduate and graduate programs are offered at The University of Texas at Austin, UCLA's Culture and Performance Program, UC Davis, UC Irvine, Kennesaw State University, Louisiana State University, Southern Illinois University Carbondale, California State University, Northridge, San Jose State University, University of San Diego, University of Maryland, the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, and Washington University in St. Louis. Texas A&M University's Department of Performance Studies is unique in including both Music and Theatre degree programs.\n\nIn the United Kingdom Aberystwyth University offers a degree scheme in performance studies with highly acclaimed performance artists such as Mike Pearson, Heike Roms and Jill Greenhalgh. The University of Roehampton in London offers a BA in Drama, Theatre and Performance Studies. Richmond University, London also offers a BA in Performance and Theatre Arts. The University of Plymouth has offered a BA in Theatre & Performance since the early 1990s; its postgraduate research programme (ResM and MPhil/PhD) specialises in performance studies. The University of Warwick also offers a BA in Theatre and Performance Studies, in addition to leading Postgraduate programmes.\n\nIn Denmark Roskilde University offers a master and ph.d. degree in \"performance design\", focusing on subjects such as theatrical performances, live music, festivals, and urban performances.\n\nIn Germany University of Hamburg offers a master program in performance studies at the centre for performance studies run by Gabriele Klein. The Centre for Performance Studies at the University of Bremen offers a certificate in performance studies focussing on the combination of academic and artistic research within performance projects.\n\nIn India, Jawaharlal Nehru University offers MPhil and PhD program in Theatre & Performance Studies at the School of Arts & Aesthetics. Since 2012, School of Culture and Creative Expressions, Ambedkar University Delhi, started a MA program in Performance Studies, which focus on redefining methodologies of cultural studies and research on the basis of the nuances of performance studies. It is formulating the first Practice based PhD in the country and working extensively in the realm of Practice-as-Research. On the similar lines, the Centre for Performance Research and Cultural Studies in South Asia (CPRACSIS), Kerala have organised series of workshops and seminars over the last few years to engage scholars, artists and practitioners in conversation informed by Performance Studies.\n\nIn Australia, the University of Sydney, Victoria University and Queensland University of Technology offer degrees majoring in performance studies, Honours, Masters and Phd. Performance Studies in some countries is also an A-level (AS and A2) course consisting of the integration of the discrete art forms of Dance, Music and Drama in performing arts.\n\nIn Brazil, The Universidade Federal de Goiás, started an interdisciplinary program (masters) in Performances Culturais (Cultural Performances) in 2012, the first in a Latin country. The goal of this program is to analyze \"rituals, games, performances, drama, dance\" from a cross-cultural point of view.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23862", "title": "Python (programming language)", "text": "Python (programming language)\n\nPython is an interpreted high-level programming language for general-purpose programming. Created by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991, Python has a design philosophy that emphasizes code readability, notably using significant whitespace. It provides constructs that enable clear programming on both small and large scales. In July 2018, Van Rossum stepped down as the leader in the language community.\n\nPython features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management. It supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative, functional and procedural, and has a large and comprehensive standard library.\nPython interpreters are available for many operating systems. CPython, the reference implementation of Python, is open source software and has a community-based development model, as do nearly all of Python's other implementations. Python and CPython are managed by the non-profit Python Software Foundation.\n\nPython was conceived in the late 1980s by Guido van Rossum at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in the Netherlands as a successor to the ABC language (itself inspired by SETL), capable of exception handling and interfacing with the Amoeba operating system. Its implementation began in December 1989. Van Rossum's long influence on Python is reflected in the title given to him by the Python community: \"Benevolent Dictator For Life\" (BDFL) a post from which he gave himself permanent vacation on July 12, 2018.\n\nPython 2.0 was released on 16 October 2000 with many major new features, including a cycle-detecting garbage collector and support for Unicode.\n\nPython 3.0 was released on 3 December 2008. It was a major revision of the language that is not completely backward-compatible. Many of its major features were backported to Python 2.6.x and 2.7.x version series. Releases of Python 3 include the codice_1 utility, which automates (at least partially) the translation of Python 2 code to Python 3.\n\nPython 2.7's end-of-life date was initially set at 2015 then postponed to 2020 out of concern that a large body of existing code could not easily be forward-ported to Python 3. In January 2017, Google announced work on a Python 2.7 to Go transcompiler to improve performance under concurrent workloads.\n\nPython is a multi-paradigm programming language. Object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported, and many of its features support functional programming and aspect-oriented programming (including by metaprogramming and metaobjects (magic methods)). Many other paradigms are supported via extensions, including design by contract and logic programming.\n\nPython uses dynamic typing, and a combination of reference counting and a cycle-detecting garbage collector for memory management. It also features dynamic name resolution (late binding), which binds method and variable names during program execution.\n\nPython's design offers some support for functional programming in the Lisp tradition. It has codice_2, codice_3, and codice_4 functions; list comprehensions, dictionaries, and sets; and generator expressions. The standard library has two modules (itertools and functools) that implement functional tools borrowed from Haskell and Standard ML.\n\nThe language's core philosophy is summarized in the document \"The Zen of Python\" (\"PEP 20\"), which includes aphorisms such as:\n\n\nRather than having all of its functionality built into its core, Python was designed to be highly extensible. This compact modularity has made it particularly popular as a means of adding programmable interfaces to existing applications. Van Rossum's vision of a small core language with a large standard library and easily extensible interpreter stemmed from his frustrations with ABC, which espoused the opposite approach.\n\nWhile offering choice in coding methodology, the Python philosophy rejects exuberant syntax (such as that of Perl) in favor of a simpler, less-cluttered grammar. As Alex Martelli put it: \"To describe something as 'clever' is \"not\" considered a compliment in the Python culture.\" Python's philosophy rejects the Perl \"there is more than one way to do it\" approach to language design in favor of \"there should be one—and preferably only one—obvious way to do it\".\n\nPython's developers strive to avoid premature optimization, and reject patches to non-critical parts of CPython that would offer marginal increases in speed at the cost of clarity. When speed is important, a Python programmer can move time-critical functions to extension modules written in languages such as C, or use PyPy, a just-in-time compiler. Cython is also available, which translates a Python script into C and makes direct C-level API calls into the Python interpreter.\n\nAn important goal of Python's developers is keeping it fun to use. This is reflected in the language's name—a tribute to the British comedy group Monty Python—and in occasionally playful approaches to tutorials and reference materials, such as examples that refer to spam and eggs (from a famous Monty Python sketch) instead of the standard foo and bar.\n\nA common neologism in the Python community is \"pythonic\", which can have a wide range of meanings related to program style. To say that code is pythonic is to say that it uses Python idioms well, that it is natural or shows fluency in the language, that it conforms with Python's minimalist philosophy and emphasis on readability. In contrast, code that is difficult to understand or reads like a rough transcription from another programming language is called \"unpythonic\".\n\nUsers and admirers of Python, especially those considered knowledgeable or experienced, are often referred to as \"Pythonists\", \"Pythonistas\", and \"Pythoneers\".\n\nPython is meant to be an easily readable language. Its formatting is visually uncluttered, and it often uses English keywords where other languages use punctuation. Unlike many other languages, it does not use curly brackets to delimit blocks, and semicolons after statements are optional. It has fewer syntactic exceptions and special cases than C or Pascal.\n\nPython uses whitespace indentation, rather than curly brackets or keywords, to delimit blocks. An increase in indentation comes after certain statements; a decrease in indentation signifies the end of the current block. Thus, the program's visual structure accurately represents the program's semantic structure. This feature is also sometimes termed the off-side rule.\n\nPython's statements include (among others):\n\nPython does not support tail call optimization or first-class continuations, and, according to Guido van Rossum, it never will. However, better support for coroutine-like functionality is provided in 2.5, by extending Python's generators. Before 2.5, generators were lazy iterators; information was passed unidirectionally out of the generator. From Python 2.5, it is possible to pass information back into a generator function, and from Python 3.3, the information can be passed through multiple stack levels.\n\nSome Python expressions are similar to languages such as C and Java, while some are not:\n\n\nIn Python, a distinction between expressions and statements is rigidly enforced, in contrast to languages such as Common Lisp, Scheme, or Ruby. This leads to duplicating some functionality. For example:\n\n\nStatements cannot be a part of an expression, so list and other comprehensions or lambda expressions, all being expressions, cannot contain statements. A particular case of this is that an assignment statement such as codice_76 cannot form part of the conditional expression of a conditional statement. This has the advantage of avoiding a classic C error of mistaking an assignment operator codice_77 for an equality operator codice_34 in conditions: codice_79 is syntactically valid (but probably unintended) C code but codice_80 causes a syntax error in Python.\n\nMethods on objects are functions attached to the object's class; the syntax codice_81 is, for normal methods and functions, syntactic sugar for codice_82. Python methods have an explicit codice_83 parameter to access instance data, in contrast to the implicit codice_83 (or codice_85) in some other object-oriented programming languages (e.g., C++, Java, Objective-C, or Ruby).\n\nPython uses duck typing and has typed objects but untyped variable names. Type constraints are not checked at compile time; rather, operations on an object may fail, signifying that the given object is not of a suitable type. Despite being dynamically typed, Python is strongly typed, forbidding operations that are not well-defined (for example, adding a number to a string) rather than silently attempting to make sense of them.\n\nPython allows programmers to define their own types using classes, which are most often used for object-oriented programming. New instances of classes are constructed by calling the class (for example, codice_86 or codice_87), and the classes are instances of the metaclass codice_88 (itself an instance of itself), allowing metaprogramming and reflection.\n\nBefore version 3.0, Python had two kinds of classes: \"old-style\" and \"new-style\". The syntax of both styles is the same, the difference being whether the class codice_89 is inherited from, directly or indirectly (all new-style classes inherit from codice_89 and are instances of codice_88). In versions of Python 2 from Python 2.2 onwards, both kinds of classes can be used. Old-style classes were eliminated in Python 3.0.\n\nThe long term plan is to support gradual typing and from Python 3.5, the syntax of the language allows specifying static types but they are not checked in the default implementation, CPython. An experimental optional static type checker named \"mypy\" supports compile-time type checking.\n\nPython has the usual C language arithmetic operators (codice_48, codice_93, codice_94, codice_95, codice_56). It also has codice_32 for exponentiation, e.g. codice_98 and codice_99, and a new matrix multiply codice_33 operator is included in version 3.5. Additionally, it has a unary operator (codice_101), which essentially inverts all the bits of its one argument. For integers, this means codice_102. Other operators include bitwise shift operators codice_103, which shifts codice_104 to the left codice_105 places, the same as codice_106, and codice_107, which shifts codice_104 to the right codice_105 places, the same as codice_110.\n\nThe behavior of division has changed significantly over time:\n\n\nRounding towards negative infinity, though different from most languages, adds consistency. For instance, it means that the equation codice_124 is always true. It also means that the equation codice_125 is valid for both positive and negative values of codice_126. However, maintaining the validity of this equation means that while the result of codice_127 is, as expected, in the half-open interval [0, \"b\"), where codice_128 is a positive integer, it has to lie in the interval (\"b\", 0] when codice_128 is negative.\n\nPython provides a codice_130 function for rounding a float to the nearest integer. For tie-breaking, versions before 3 use round-away-from-zero: codice_131 is 1.0, codice_132 is −1.0. Python 3 uses round to even: codice_133 is 2, codice_134 is 2.\n\nPython allows boolean expressions with multiple equality relations in a manner that is consistent with general use in mathematics. For example, the expression codice_135 tests whether codice_126 is less than codice_128 and codice_128 is less than codice_139. C-derived languages interpret this expression differently: in C, the expression would first evaluate codice_140, resulting in 0 or 1, and that result would then be compared with codice_139.\n\nPython has extensive built-in support for arbitrary precision arithmetic. Integers are transparently switched from the machine-supported maximum fixed-precision (usually 32 or 64 bits), belonging to the python type codice_142, to arbitrary precision, belonging to the Python type codice_143, where needed. The latter have an \"L\" suffix in their textual representation. (In Python 3, the distinction between the codice_142 and codice_143 types was eliminated; this behavior is now entirely contained by the codice_142 class.) The codice_147 type/class in module codice_148 (since version 2.4) provides decimal floating point numbers to arbitrary precision and several rounding modes. The codice_149 type in module codice_150 (since version 2.6) provides arbitrary precision for rational numbers.\n\nDue to Python's extensive mathematics library, and the third-party library NumPy that further extends the native capabilities, it is frequently used as a scientific scripting language to aid in problems such as numerical data processing and manipulation.\n\nPython's large standard library, commonly cited as one of its greatest strengths, provides tools suited to many tasks. For Internet-facing applications, many standard formats and protocols such as MIME and HTTP are supported. It includes modules for creating graphical user interfaces, connecting to relational databases, generating pseudorandom numbers, arithmetic with arbitrary precision decimals, manipulating regular expressions, and unit testing.\n\nSome parts of the standard library are covered by specifications (for example, the Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) implementation codice_151 follows PEP 333), but most modules are not. They are specified by their code, internal documentation, and test suites (if supplied). However, because most of the standard library is cross-platform Python code, only a few modules need altering or rewriting for variant implementations.\n\n\nMost Python implementations (including CPython) include a read–eval–print loop (REPL), permitting them to function as a command line interpreter for which the user enters statements sequentially and receives results immediately.\n\nOther shells, including IDLE and IPython, add further abilities such as auto-completion, session state retention and syntax highlighting.\n\nAs well as standard desktop integrated development environments, there are Web browser-based IDEs; SageMath (intended for developing science and math-related Python programs); PythonAnywhere, a browser-based IDE and hosting environment; and Canopy IDE, a commercial Python IDE emphasizing scientific computing.\n\nCPython is the reference implementation of Python. It is written in C, meeting the C89 standard with several select C99 features. It compiles Python programs into an intermediate bytecode which is then executed by its virtual machine. CPython is distributed with a large standard library written in a mixture of C and native Python. It is available for many platforms, including Windows and most modern Unix-like systems. Platform portability was one of its earliest priorities.\n\nPyPy is a fast, compliant interpreter of Python 2.7 and 3.5. Its just-in-time compiler brings a significant speed improvement over CPython.\n\nStackless Python is a significant fork of CPython that implements microthreads; it does not use the C memory stack, thus allowing massively concurrent programs. PyPy also has a stackless version.\n\nMicroPython and CircuitPython are Python 3 variants optimised for microcontrollers.\n\nOther just-in-time Python compilers have been developed, but are now unsupported:\n\n\nIn 2005, Nokia released a Python interpreter for the Series 60 mobile phones named PyS60. It includes many of the modules from the CPython implementations and some additional modules to integrate with the Symbian operating system. The project has been kept up-to-date to run on all variants of the S60 platform, and several third-party modules are available. The Nokia N900 also supports Python with GTK widget libraries, enabling programs to be written and run on the target device.\n\nThere are several compilers to high-level object languages, with either unrestricted Python, a restricted subset of Python, or a language similar to Python as the source language:\n\nA performance comparison of various Python implementations on a non-numerical (combinatorial) workload was presented at EuroSciPy '13.\n\nPython's development is conducted largely through the \"Python Enhancement Proposal\" (PEP) process, the primary mechanism for proposing major new features, collecting community input on issues and documenting Python design decisions. Outstanding PEPs are reviewed and commented on by the Python community and Guido Van Rossum, Python's Benevolent Dictator For Life.\n\nEnhancement of the language corresponds with development of the CPython reference implementation. The mailing list python-dev is the primary forum for the language's development. Specific issues are discussed in the Roundup bug tracker maintained at python.org. Development originally took place on a self-hosted source-code repository running Mercurial, until Python moved to GitHub in January 2017.\n\nCPython's public releases come in three types, distinguished by which part of the version number is incremented:\n\n\nMany alpha, beta, and release-candidates are also released as previews and for testing before final releases. Although there is a rough schedule for each release, they are often delayed if the code is not ready. Python's development team monitors the state of the code by running the large unit test suite during development, and using the BuildBot continuous integration system.\n\nThe community of Python developers has also contributed over 86,000 software modules () to the Python Package Index (PyPI), the official repository of third-party Python libraries.\n\nThe major academic conference on Python is PyCon. There are also special Python mentoring programmes, such as Pyladies.\n\nPython's name is derived from the British comedy group Monty Python, whom Python creator Guido van Rossum enjoyed while developing the language. Monty Python references appear frequently in Python code and culture; for example, the metasyntactic variables often used in Python literature are \"spam\" and \"eggs\" instead of the traditional \"foo\" and \"bar\". The official Python documentation also contains various references to Monty Python routines.\n\nThe prefix \"Py-\" is used to show that something is related to Python. Examples of the use of this prefix in names of Python applications or libraries include Pygame, a binding of SDL to Python (commonly used to create games); PyQt and PyGTK, which bind Qt and GTK to Python respectively; and PyPy, a Python implementation originally written in Python.\n\nPython API documentation generators include:\n\n\nSince 2003, Python has consistently ranked in the top ten most popular programming languages in the TIOBE Programming Community Index where, , it is the fourth most popular language (behind Java, C, and C++). It was selected Programming Language of the Year in 2007 and 2010.\n\nAn empirical study found that scripting languages, such as Python, are more productive than conventional languages, such as C and Java, for programming problems involving string manipulation and search in a dictionary, and determined that memory consumption was often \"better than Java and not much worse than C or C++\".\n\nLarge organizations that use Python include Wikipedia, Google, Yahoo!, CERN, NASA, Facebook, Amazon, Instagram, Spotify and some smaller entities like ILM and ITA. The social news networking site Reddit is written entirely in Python.\n\nPython can serve as a scripting language for web applications, e.g., via mod_wsgi for the Apache web server. With Web Server Gateway Interface, a standard API has evolved to facilitate these applications. Web frameworks like Django, Pylons, Pyramid, TurboGears, web2py, Tornado, Flask, Bottle and Zope support developers in the design and maintenance of complex applications. Pyjs and IronPython can be used to develop the client-side of Ajax-based applications. SQLAlchemy can be used as data mapper to a relational database. Twisted is a framework to program communications between computers, and is used (for example) by Dropbox.\n\nLibraries such as NumPy, SciPy and Matplotlib allow the effective use of Python in scientific computing, with specialized libraries such as Biopython and Astropy providing domain-specific functionality. SageMath is a mathematical software with a notebook interface programmable in Python: its library covers many aspects of mathematics, including algebra, combinatorics, numerical mathematics, number theory, and calculus.\n\nPython has been successfully embedded in many software products as a scripting language, including in finite element method software such as Abaqus, 3D parametric modeler like FreeCAD, 3D animation packages such as 3ds Max, Blender, Cinema 4D, Lightwave, Houdini, Maya, modo, MotionBuilder, Softimage, the visual effects compositor Nuke, 2D imaging programs like GIMP, Inkscape, Scribus and Paint Shop Pro, and musical notation programs like scorewriter and capella. GNU Debugger uses Python as a pretty printer to show complex structures such as C++ containers. Esri promotes Python as the best choice for writing scripts in ArcGIS. It has also been used in several video games, and has been adopted as first of the three available programming languages in Google App Engine, the other two being Java and Go. Python is also used in algorithmic trading and quantitative finance. Python can also be implemented in APIs of online brokerages that run on other languages by using wrappers.\n\nPython is commonly used in artificial intelligence projects with the help of libraries like TensorFlow, Keras and Scikit-learn. As a scripting language with modular architecture, simple syntax and rich text processing tools, Python is often used for natural language processing.\n\nMany operating systems include Python as a standard component. It ships with most Linux distributions, AmigaOS 4, FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD and macOS, and can be used from the command line (terminal). Many Linux distributions use installers written in Python: Ubuntu uses the Ubiquity installer, while Red Hat Linux and Fedora use the Anaconda installer. Gentoo Linux uses Python in its package management system, Portage.\n\nPython is used extensively in the information security industry, including in exploit development.\n\nMost of the Sugar software for the One Laptop per Child XO, now developed at Sugar Labs, is written in Python. The Raspberry Pi single-board computer project has adopted Python as its main user-programming language.\n\nLibreOffice includes Python, and intends to replace Java with Python. Its Python Scripting Provider is a core feature since Version 4.0 from 7 February 2013.\n\nPython's design and philosophy have influenced many other programming languages:\n\n\nPython's development practices have also been emulated by other languages. For example, the practice of requiring a document describing the rationale for, and issues surrounding, a change to the language (in Python, a PEP) is also used in Tcl and Erlang.\n\nPython received TIOBE's Programming Language of the Year awards in 2007 and 2010. The award is given to the language with the greatest growth in popularity over the year, as measured by the TIOBE index.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10848413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10848413", "title": "Rolls Series", "text": "Rolls Series\n\nThe Chronicles and Memorials of Great Britain and Ireland during the Middle Ages (), widely known as the is a major collection of British and Irish historical materials and primary sources published as 99 works in 253 volumes between 1858 and 1911. Almost all the great medieval English chronicles were included: most existing editions, published by scholars of the 17th and 18th centuries, were considered to be unsatisfactory. The scope was also extended to include legendary, folklore and hagiographical materials, and archival records and legal tracts. The series was government-funded, and takes its unofficial name from the fact that its volumes were published \"by the authority of Her Majesty's Treasury, under the direction of the Master of the Rolls\", who was the official custodian of the records of the Court of Chancery and other courts, and nominal head of the Public Record Office.\n\nThe publication of the series was undertaken by the British Government in accordance with a scheme submitted in 1857 by the Master of the Rolls, then Sir John Romilly. A previous undertaking of the same kind, the \"Monumenta Historica Britannica\", had failed after the publication of the first volume (1036 folio pages, London, 1848). The principal editor, Henry Petrie had died, and its form was cumbrous. Representations were made by Joseph Stevenson, and the scheme of 1857 was the direct outcome of this appeal. Alongside Romilly and Stevenson, another key figure in shaping the direction of the project in its early years was Thomas Duffus Hardy, who served as Deputy Keeper of the Public Records from 1861 to 1878. The first two volumes were published in February 1858: they were the first volume of Stevenson's own edition of the \"Historia Ecclesie Abbendonensis\", a 12th-century chronicle written at Abingdon Abbey (the second and final volume appeared a few months later); and F. C. Hingeston's edition of John Capgrave's fifteenth-century \"Historia de Illustribus Henricis\". Hingeston's work was slapdash, and reviews were unfavourable.\n\nProlific and well-regarded editors for the series included William Stubbs (19 volumes), H. R. Luard (17 volumes), and H. T. Riley (15 volumes). Editors were handsomely paid (Stubbs received, over the lifetime of the series, a total of some £6,600; Luard £6,432; and Riley £6,487). However, although editorial standards were often high, there was little supervision or opportunity for enforcing editorial quality, and little incentive for dilatory editors to bring their work to fruition; and as a result there were also less successful editions. In some quarters the project came to be regarded as providing an easy source of income for relatively little work.\nAlthough at the beginning of the project Romilly insisted on a print run of 1,500 for each volume, this proved greatly over-optimistic in terms of sales, and 750 became the normal figure. The retail price per volume was initially 8s. 6d., later rising to 10s. Initial sales figures for each volume generally reached something over 200 copies: this left considerable surplus stock, and so in the 1880s William Hardy, as Deputy Keeper, introduced the practice of presenting free copies to reputable public and university libraries, with a label inserted stating that \"in the event of the Library being broken up\", the volume should be returned to the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office.\n\nFunding for the project began to be reduced from the mid-1880s, particularly following the appointment as Deputy Keeper in 1886 of Henry Maxwell Lyte, who was concerned about the scholarly quality and pace of production, the funds being paid to unproductive editors, and who felt that his office's priorities should lie elsewhere. Thereafter, although work continued on editions already in progress, few new works were initiated. One of the final works in the series was the 13th-century legal compilation known as the \"Red Book of the Exchequer\", edited by Hubert Hall of the Public Record Office and published in three volumes in 1897. This became the occasion of a virulent and intemperate scholarly feud between Hall and J. H. Round (who had been co-editor, but who withdrew for reasons of ill-health and subsequently fell out with Hall): Round described the eventual edition as \"so replete with heresy and error as to lead astray for ever all students of its subject\", and \"probably the most misleading publication in the whole range of the Rolls series\". The last volume to be commissioned was the \"Memoranda de Parliamento\" (records of the parliament held at Westminster in 1305), edited by F. W. Maitland, which appeared in 1893; while the final volume to reach print was the second part of the \"Year Book\" for the 20th year of Edward III (1346–7), edited by L. O. Pike, which appeared in 1911.\n\nChronicles published in the series included the edition of the \"Chronica Majora\" of Matthew Paris by H. R. Luard; the chronicles of Roger of Hoveden, Benedict of Peterborough, Ralph de Diceto, Walter of Coventry, and others, edited by William Stubbs; the works of Giraldus Cambrensis by J. S. Brewer; and the \"Materials for the History of St Thomas Becket\" by James Craigie Robertson.\n\nHowever, the scope of the series was not limited to conventional chronicles. It also encompassed materials of a more or less legendary character relating to Ireland and Scotland, such as Whitley Stokes's edition of \"The Tripartite Life of St. Patrick\", and the Icelandic sagas edited by Guðbrandur Vigfússon and G.W. Dasent; rhymed chronicles like those of Robert of Gloucester and Robert of Brunne in English, and that of Pierre de Langtoft in French; quasi-philosophical works like those of Roger Bacon and Alexander Neckam, together with folklore materials like the three volumes of \"Leechdoms, Wortcunning and Starcraft\" of Anglo-Saxon times. Archival records and legal tracts, such as the \"Year Books\" of Edward I and Edward III, the \"Black Book of the Admiralty\", the \"Red Book of the Exchequer\", and Bracton's work \"De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliæ\" were also included; as were hagiographical documents, dealing for example with the lives of St Dunstan, St Edward the Confessor, St Hugh of Lincoln, St Thomas Becket, and St Wilfrid and other northern saints.\n\nIn the series as proposed, \"preference was to be given in the first instance to such materials as were most scarce and valuable\", each chronicle was to be edited as if the editor were engaged on an \"editio princeps\", and a brief account was to be provided in a suitable preface of the life and times of the author as well as a description of the manuscripts used.\n\nThe vast bulk of the texts are in Latin, printed without translation. Scribal abbreviations are silently extended. Texts in Old French, Old English, Irish, Gaelic, Welsh, Old Norse, etc. have a translation annexed.\n\nVolumes were published in octavo format.\n\nMany of the Rolls Series volumes were reprinted under licence in the 1960s and 1970s by the Kraus Reprint Corporation (part of the Kraus-Thomson Organization Ltd.) of Millwood, New York.\n\nThe works published within the series were not sequentially numbered (although the individual parts of multi-volume works were numbered). This has presented bibliographers and librarians with a number of problems, and citations of volumes, and their arrangement within libraries, has therefore varied. Many libraries, however, adopted the unofficial numbering scheme, 1–99, used within HMSO Sectional List 24, \"British National Archives\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "449532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449532", "title": "Rosenhan experiment", "text": "Rosenhan experiment\n\nThe Rosenhan experiment or Thud experiment was an experiment conducted to determine the validity of psychiatric diagnosis. The experimenters feigned hallucinations to enter psychiatric hospitals, and acted normally afterwards. They were diagnosed with psychiatric disorders and were given antipsychotic drugs. The study was conducted by psychologist David Rosenhan, a Stanford University professor, and published by the journal \"Science\" in 1973 under the title \"On being sane in insane places\". It is considered an important and influential criticism of psychiatric diagnosis. \n\nRosenhan's study was done in two parts. The first part involved the use of healthy associates or \"pseudopatients\" (three women and five men, including Rosenhan himself) who briefly feigned auditory hallucinations in an attempt to gain admission to 12 psychiatric hospitals in five states in the United States. All were admitted and diagnosed with psychiatric disorders. After admission, the pseudopatients acted normally and told staff that they felt fine and had no longer experienced any additional hallucinations. All were forced to admit to having a mental illness and had to agree to take antipsychotic drugs as a condition of their release. The average time that the patients spent in the hospital was 19 days. All but one were diagnosed with schizophrenia \"in remission\" before their release.\n\nThe second part of his study involved an offended hospital administration challenging Rosenhan to send pseudopatients to its facility, whom its staff would then detect. Rosenhan agreed and in the following weeks out of 250 new patients the staff identified 41 as potential pseudopatients, with 2 of these receiving suspicion from at least one psychiatrist and one other staff member. In fact, Rosenhan had sent no pseudopatients to the hospital.\n\nWhile listening to a lecture by R. D. Laing, who was associated with the anti-psychiatry movement, Rosenhan conceived of the experiment as a way to test the reliability of psychiatric diagnoses. The study concluded \"it is clear that we cannot distinguish the sane from the insane in psychiatric hospitals\" and also illustrated the dangers of dehumanization and labeling in psychiatric institutions. It suggested that the use of community mental health facilities which concentrated on specific problems and behaviors rather than psychiatric labels might be a solution, and recommended education to make psychiatric workers more aware of the social psychology of their facilities.\n\nRosenhan himself and seven mentally healthy associates, called \"pseudopatients,\" attempted to gain admission to psychiatric hospitals by calling for an appointment and feigning auditory hallucinations. The hospital staff were not informed of the experiment. The pseudopatients included a psychology graduate student in his twenties, three psychologists, a pediatrician, a psychiatrist, a painter, and a housewife. None had a history of mental illness. Pseudopatients used pseudonyms, and those who worked in the mental health field were given false jobs in a different sector to avoid invoking any special treatment or scrutiny. Apart from giving false names and employment details, further biographical details were truthfully reported.\n\nDuring their initial psychiatric assessment, the pseudopatients claimed to be hearing voices of the same sex as the patient which were often unclear, but which seemed to pronounce the words \"empty,\" \"hollow,\" \"thud,\" and nothing else. These words were chosen as they vaguely suggest some sort of existential crisis and for the lack of any published literature referencing them as psychotic symptoms. No other psychiatric symptoms were claimed. If admitted, the pseudopatients were instructed to \"act normally,\" reporting that they felt fine and no longer heard voices. Hospital records obtained after the experiment indicate that all pseudopatients were characterized as friendly and cooperative by staff.\n\nAll were admitted, to 12 psychiatric hospitals across the United States, including rundown and underfunded public hospitals in rural areas, urban university-run hospitals with excellent reputations, and one expensive private hospital. Though presented with identical symptoms, seven were diagnosed with schizophrenia at public hospitals, and one with manic-depressive psychosis, a more optimistic diagnosis with better clinical outcomes, at the private hospital. Their stays ranged from 7 to 52 days, and the average was 19 days. All were discharged with a diagnosis of schizophrenia \"in remission,\" which Rosenhan considered as evidence that mental illness is perceived as an irreversible condition creating a lifelong stigma rather than a curable illness.\n\nDespite constantly and openly taking extensive notes on the behavior of the staff and other patients, none of the pseudopatients were identified as impostors by the hospital staff, although many of the other psychiatric patients seemed to be able to correctly identify them as impostors. In the first three hospitalizations, 35 of the total of 118 patients expressed a suspicion that the pseudopatients were sane, with some suggesting that the patients were researchers or journalists investigating the hospital. Hospital notes indicated that staff interpreted much of the pseudopatients' behavior in terms of mental illness. For example, one nurse labeled the note-taking of one pseudopatient as \"writing behavior\" and considered it pathological. The patients' normal biographies were recast in hospital records along the lines of what was expected of schizophrenics by the then-dominant theories of its cause.\n\nThe experiment required the pseudopatients to get out of the hospital on their own by getting the hospital to release them, though a lawyer was retained to be on call for emergencies when it became clear that the pseudopatients would not ever be voluntarily released on short notice. Once admitted and diagnosed, the pseudopatients were not able to obtain their release until they agreed with the psychiatrists that they were mentally ill and began taking antipsychotic medications, which they flushed down the toilet. No staff member noticed that the pseudopatients were flushing their medication down the toilets and did not report patients doing this.\n\nRosenhan and the other pseudopatients reported an overwhelming sense of dehumanization, severe invasion of privacy, and boredom while hospitalized. Their possessions were searched randomly, and they were sometimes observed while using the toilet. They reported that though the staff seemed to be well-meaning, they generally objectified and dehumanized the patients, often discussing patients at length in their presence as though they were not there, and avoiding direct interaction with patients except as strictly necessary to perform official duties. Some attendants were prone to verbal and physical abuse of patients when other staff were not present. A group of bored patients waiting outside the cafeteria for lunch early were said by a doctor to his students to be experiencing \"oral-acquisitive\" psychiatric symptoms. Contact with doctors averaged 6.8 minutes per day.\n\nFor this experiment, Rosenhan used a well-known research and teaching hospital, whose staff had heard of the results of the initial study but claimed that similar errors could not be made at their institution. Rosenhan arranged with them that during a three-month period, one or more pseudopatients would attempt to gain admission and the staff would rate every incoming patient as to the likelihood they were an impostor. Out of 193 patients, 41 were considered to be impostors and a further 42 were considered suspect. In reality, Rosenhan had sent no pseudopatients; all patients suspected as impostors by the hospital staff were ordinary patients. This led to a conclusion that \"any diagnostic process that lends itself too readily to massive errors of this sort cannot be a very reliable one\".\n\nThere was also a significant reduction in the number of admissions to the hospital. This suggested that psychiatrists had been over-admitting before the non-experiment was conducted.\n\nRosenhan published his findings in \"Science\", in which he criticized the reliability of psychiatric diagnosis and the disempowering and demeaning nature of patient care experienced by the associates in the study. His article generated an explosion of controversy.\n\nMany defended psychiatry, arguing that as psychiatric diagnosis relies largely on the patient's report of their experiences, faking their presence no more demonstrates problems with psychiatric diagnosis than lying about other medical symptoms. In this vein, psychiatrist Robert Spitzer quoted Seymour S. Kety in a 1975 criticism of Rosenhan's study:\n\nIf I were to drink a quart of blood and, concealing what I had done, come to the emergency room of any hospital vomiting blood, the behavior of the staff would be quite predictable. If they labeled and treated me as having a bleeding peptic ulcer, I doubt that I could argue convincingly that medical science does not know how to diagnose that condition.\n\nKety also argued that psychiatrists should not necessarily be expected to assume that a patient is pretending to have mental illness, thus the study lacked realism. Rosenhan called this the \"experimenter effect\" or \"expectation bias\", something indicative of the problems he uncovered rather than a problem in his methodology.\n\nThe experiment \"accelerated the movement to reform mental institutions and to deinstitutionalize as many mental patients as possible\".\n\nIn 1887 American investigative journalist Nellie Bly feigned symptoms of mental illness to gain admission to a lunatic asylum and report on the terrible conditions therein. The results were published as \"Ten Days in a Mad-House\".\n\nIn 1968 Maurice K. Temerlin split 25 psychiatrists into two groups and had them listen to an actor portraying a character of normal mental health. One group was told that the actor \"was a very interesting man because he looked neurotic, but actually was quite psychotic\" while the other was told nothing. Sixty percent of the former group diagnosed psychoses, most often schizophrenia, while none of the control group did so.\n\nIn 1988, Loring and Powell gave 290 psychiatrists a transcript of a patient interview and told half of them that the patient was black and the other half white; they concluded of the results that \"clinicians appear to ascribe violence, suspiciousness, and dangerousness to black clients even though the case studies are the same as the case studies for the white clients.\"\n\nPsychologist and writer Lauren Slater claimed to have conducted an experiment very similar to Rosenhan's for her 2004 book \"Opening Skinner's Box\". Slater wrote that she had presented herself at 9 psychiatric emergency rooms with auditory hallucinations, resulting in being diagnosed \"almost every time\" with psychotic depression. However, when challenged to provide evidence of actually conducting her experiment, she could not.\n\nIn 2008, the BBC's Horizon science program performed a somewhat related experiment over two episodes entitled \"How Mad Are You?\". The experiment involved ten subjects, five with previously diagnosed mental health conditions, and five with no such diagnosis. They were observed by three experts in mental health diagnoses and their challenge was to identify the five with mental health problems solely from their behavior, without speaking to the subjects or learning anything of their histories. The experts correctly diagnosed two of the ten patients, misdiagnosed one patient, and incorrectly identified two healthy patients as having mental health problems. Unlike the other experiments listed here, however, the aim of this experiment was not to criticize the diagnostic process, but to minimize the stigmatization of the mentally ill. It aimed to illustrate that people with a previous diagnosis of a mental illness could live normal lives with their health problems not obvious to observers from their behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22689172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22689172", "title": "Rural management", "text": "Rural management\n\nRural management is the study of planning, organising, directing, and controlling of rural area, co-operatives, agribusiness and allied fields. It merges the knowledge of management studies and applying it in the rural context. Most of the courses are designed in such a way that the concepts taught in the class is applied in the real life through training in the rural areas through case-studies and interaction with the rural people\n\nThere are many academic institutions within India offering courses on Rural Management. Notable among them are Institute of Rural Management, Anand (www.irma.ac.in), KIIT School of Rural Management (KSRM), Bhubaneswar (ksrm.ac.in) and Xavier University, Bhubaneswar (ximb.ac.in). They offer either two years' Post Graduate Diploma in Rural Management or Two Years' Masters in Business Administration (MBA-Rural Management).\n\nRural Management graduates work in the areas like sustainable rural livelihoods, agri-business management, cooperatives, climate change, micro-finance, corporate social responsibility, natural resources management, rural marketing, commodity trading and marketing and social entrepreneurship.\n\nApart from the classroom based courses, IRMA and KSRM provide opportunities to their rural management students to undergo three field segments (internships) of 10–11 weeks duration. In other words, the curriculum is designed to make it contextual to develop rural areas through experiential learning, live projects.\n\n\nIndia has close to 4,000 management schools that produce over 300,000 graduates every year. But the country has few niche management schools focusing on the rural sector. Rural management schools produce less than 1,000 rural managers. The small number is surprising considering the importance of the rural sector, or Bharat, in India's economy.\n\nAccording to a study by global consulting firm Accenture, the rural economy accounts for 50 per cent of the country's gross domestic product. It also makes up 70 per cent of the country's population and 50 per cent of the work force. About 75 percent of new factories built in the past decade have come up in rural India, which accounts for 75 per cent of all new manufacturing jobs. Since 2000, per capita GDP has grown at 6.2 per cent a year in rural India compared with 4.2 per cent in urban areas. And in terms of spending, Bharat has trumped India by a mile. Between 2009 and 2012, Indians in the countryside spent $69 billion compared with $55 billion in big towns and cities.\n\nHarish Manwani, chairman of Hindustan Unilever Ltd, says rural India is a powerhouse with the potential to add $1.8 trillion, or the equivalent of the current GDP, to the country's economy. But this potential can be realised only if Bharat and India merge.\n\nMainstream management schools have not ventured into rural management for many reasons. The rural management courses are very niche and they call for students with a different set of attitudes. The teaching approach is also different. Most mainstream schools may not be prepared to handle such subjects,\" says Professor Abraham Koshy, professor of marketing at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. Experts say there is room for more rural management schools. For a country of India's size and the number of problems we face, there is a need for lot more such institutions. There is a need to create a lot of rural managers who are potential agents of change.\n\nRural Management is one such specialisation which gives you the chance to contribute towards uplifting and betterment of those sections of the society, where the light of development is yet to reach. The purpose of the rural managers is to promote sustainable, eco-friendly and equitable socioeconomic development of rural area through professional management of their institutions and organisations. Previously, only a few people opted for this challenging course but nowadays, a lot of students are opting for this course of rural management as they want to learn and showcase their skills to ensure that the performance in the rural sector is enhanced..\n\nThe MBA (Rural Management) programme is unique in the sense that in addition to traditional management courses such as Project Management, Accounting, Quantitative Techniques, Managerial Analysis and Communication, Finance, Marketing Management, many specialised courses focusing on management of rural sector are offered.\n\nAgribusiness Management, Rural Production and Livelihoods, Rural Finance and Commercial Banking, Natural Resources Management and Climate Change, Rural Marketing, CSR Management, Micro Finance, ICTs for Development, Innovation in Rural Development and Enterprises, Policy and Programme Interventions in Rural Development are some of the courses especially focusing on the rural sector.\n\nAnyone who completes MBA (Rural Management) has the advantage of having career opportunities in any general management area. In addition to that, Rural Management graduates alone are preferred in specific areas mentioned above.\n\n"}
{"id": "33451644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33451644", "title": "Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan", "text": "Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan\n\nSarva Shiksha Abhiyan (Hindi: सर्व शिक्षा अभियान, \"Sarva Shikshā Abhiyān\", English: Education for All Movement), or SSA, is an Indian Government programme aimed at the universalisation of elementary education \"in a time bound manner\", as mandated by the 86th Amendment to the Constitution of India making free and compulsory education to children between the ages of 6 to 14 (estimated to be 205 million children in 2001) a fundamental right. The programme was pioneered by former Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.\n\nAs an intervention programme, it started on 2002 and SSA has been operational since 2000-2001. However, its roots go back to 1993-1994, when the District Primary Education Programme (DPEP) was launched, with an aim of achieving the objective of universal primary education. DPEP, over several phases, covered 272 districts in 18 states of the country. The expenditure on the programme was shared by the Central Government (85%) and the State Governments. The Central share was funded by a number of external agencies, including the World Bank, Department for International Development (DFID) and UNICEF. By 2001, more than $1500 million had been committed to the programme, and 50 million children covered in its ambit. In an impact assessment of Phase I of DPEP, the authors concluded that its net impact on minority children was impressive, while there was little evidence of any impact on the enrolment of girls. Nevertheless, they concluded that the investment in DPEP was not a waste, because it introduced a new approach to primary school interventions in India.\n\nThe Right to Education Act (RTE) came into force on 1 April 2010. Some educationists and policy makers believe that, with the passing of this act, SSA has acquired the necessary legal force for its implementation.\n\nIn 2011-12, the Government of India allocated crore for this project.\n\nSarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) is a programme for Universal Elementary Education. This programme is also an attempt to provide an opportunity for improving human capabilities to all children through provision of community -owned quality education in a mission mode. It is a response to the demand for quality basic education all over the country.\n\n\"Padhe Bharat Badhe Bharat\" is a nationwide sub-programme of \"Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan\". Children who fail to read in early education lag behind in other subjects.The programme is designed to improve comprehensive early reading, writing and early mathematics programme for children in Classes I and II. Under this programme, was approved to States. The programme will not only provide print rich environment, timely distribution of books but will also include new teacher mentoring and appraisal system.\nSSA has been operational since 2000-2001 to provide for a variety of interventions for universal access and retention, bridging of gender and social category gaps in elementary education and improving the quality of learning. SSA interventions include inter alia, opening of new schools and alternate schooling facilities, construction of schools and additional classrooms, toilets and drinking water, provisioning for teachers, regular teacher in service training and academic resource support, free textbooks& uniforms and support for improving learning achievement levels / outcome. With the passage of the RTE Act, changes have been incorporated into the SSA approach, strategies and norms. The changes encompass the vision and approach to elementary education, guided by the following principles :\nHolistic view of education, as interpreted in the National Curriculum Framework 2005, with implications for a systemic revamp of the entire content and process of education with significant implications for curriculum, teacher education, educational planning and management.\nEquity, to mean not only equal opportunity, but also creation of conditions in which the disadvantaged sections of the society – children of SC, ST, Muslim minority, landless agricultural workers and children with special needs, etc. – can avail of the opportunity.\nAccess, not to be confined to ensuring that a school becomes accessible to all children within specified distance but implies an understanding of the educational needs and predicament of the traditionally excluded categories – the SC, ST and others sections of the most disadvantaged groups, the Muslim minority, girls in general, and children with special needs.\nGender concern, implying not only an effort to enable girls to keep pace with boys but to view education in the perspective spelt out in the National Policy on Education 1986 /92; i.e. a decisive intervention to bring about a basic change in the status of women.\nCentrality of teacher, to motivate them to innovate and create a culture in the classroom, and beyond the classroom, that might produce an inclusive environment for children, especially for girls from oppressed and marginalised backgrounds.\nMoral compulsion is imposed through the RTE Act on parents, teachers, educational administrators and other stakeholders, rather than shifting emphasis on punitive processes.\nConvergent and integrated system of educational management is pre-requisite for implementation of the RTE law. All states must move in that direction as speedily as feasible\n\nProvide quality elementary education including life skills with a special focus on the education of girls and children with special needs as well as computer education.\n\nThere are several Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), which are also progressively working in the direction of the upliftment of children, especially in the field of health and education. To name a few of these organizations, Partnering Hope Into Action Foundation (Phia Foundation), Center for Unfolding Learning Potentials-CULP, Smile Foundation, Pratham, Project Nanhi Kali, Relief India Trust, Aashray Society and Reforms India, Plan India , Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action (CHETNA) and the Qualiterate Movement.\n\nIn 2018, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan along with Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyanwas launched to form Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan.\n\n"}
{"id": "31701099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31701099", "title": "Sri Lanka Planetarium", "text": "Sri Lanka Planetarium\n\nSri Lanka Planetarium is a public planetarium located in Colombo, Sri Lanka. It is the first and only planetarium in the country and maintained as an institute under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Research.\n\nThe Planetarium was established on 1 February 1965 by the State Engineering Corporation as a special feature for the Ceylon industrial exhibition held in Colombo same year. The planetarium was designed by the chief engineer from the State Engineering Corporation of Ceylon, A. N. S. Kulasinghe, and was constructed by engineers from Germany. The building takes elements from the Liverpool Metropolitan Cathedral (Sir Frederick Gibberd - 1960) and the Cathedral of Brasília (Oscar Niemeyer - 1960). The building has a reinforced concrete floor and a pre-stressed concrete folded plate roof, which was pre-cast on-site. The building was funded by the German Democratic Republic as a gift to Ceylon.\n\nWith the aid of a universal projector stationed at the centre of this building, the artificial sky is created on the domed screen above a 570-seat auditorium. The universal projector is a product of Carl Zeiss AG East Germany.\n"}
{"id": "1107345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107345", "title": "Suppressed research in the Soviet Union", "text": "Suppressed research in the Soviet Union\n\nSuppressed research in the Soviet Union refers to scientific fields which were banned in the Soviet Union. All humanities and social sciences were additionally tested for strict accordance with historical materialism. These tests were alleged to serve as a cover for political suppression of scientists who engaged in research labeled as \"idealistic\" or \"bourgeois\".\n\nIn several cases the consequences of ideological influences were dramatic. The suppression of research began during the Stalin era and continued after his regime.\n\nCertain scientific fields in the Soviet Union were suppressed primarily after being labeled as ideologically suspect.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, the agronomist Trofim Lysenko started a campaign against genetics and was supported by Stalin. If the field of genetics' connection to Nazis wasn't enough, Mendelian genetics particularly enraged Stalin due to its founder Gregor Mendel's being a Catholic Christian priest, a fact that flew in the face of the Soviet Union's official atheism and antitheism.\n\nIn 1950, the Soviet government organized the Joint Scientific Session of the USSR Academy of Sciences and the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences, the \"Pavlovian session\". Several prominent Soviet physiologists (L.A. Orbeli, P.K. Anokhin, A.D. Speransky, I.S. Beritashvily) were attacked for deviating from Pavlov's teaching. As a consequence of the Pavlovian session, Soviet physiologists were forced to accept a dogmatic ideology; the quality of physiological research deteriorated and Soviet physiology excluded itself from the international scientific community. Later Soviet biologists heavily criticised Lysenko's theories and pseudo-scientific methods.\n\nCybernetics was also outlawed as bourgeois pseudoscience. Norbert Wiener's 1948 book was condemned and translated only in 1958. A 1954 edition of the \"Brief Philosophical Dictionary\" condemned cybernetics for \"mechanistically equating processes in live nature, society and in technical systems, and thus standing against materialistic dialectics and modern scientific physiology developed by Ivan Pavlov\". (However this article was removed from the 1955 reprint of the dictionary.) After an initial period of doubts, Soviet cybernetics took root, but this early attitude hampered the development of computer science and engineering in the Soviet Union.\n\nSoviet historiography (the way in which history was and is written by scholars of the Soviet Union) was significantly influenced by the strict control by the authorities aimed at propaganda of communist ideology and Soviet power.\n\nSince the late 1930s, Soviet historiography treated the party line and reality as one and the same. As such, if it was a science, it was a science in service of a specific political and ideological agenda, commonly employing historical revisionism. In the 1930s, historic archives were closed and original research was severely restricted. Historians were required to pepper their works with references – appropriate or not – to Stalin and other \"Marxist-Leninist classics\", and to pass judgment – as prescribed by the Party – on pre-revolution historic Russian figures.\n\nMany works of Western historians were forbidden or censored, many areas of history were also forbidden for research as, officially, they never happened. Translations of foreign historiography were often produced in a truncated form, accompanied with extensive censorship and corrective footnotes. For example, in the Russian 1976 translation of Basil Liddell Hart's \"History of the Second World War\" pre-war purges of Red Army officers, the secret protocol to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, many details of the Winter War, the occupation of the Baltic states, the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, Western Allied assistance to the Soviet Union during the war, many other Western Allies' efforts, the Soviet leadership's mistakes and failures, criticism of the Soviet Union and other content were censored out.\n\nThe Katyn massacre was formally assigned to Nazi Germany but the subject was frequently concealed. Soviet famines were taboo. \n\nAt the beginning of Stalin's rule, the dominant figure in Soviet linguistics was Nikolai Yakovlevich Marr, who argued that language is a class construction and that language structure is determined by the economic structure of society. Stalin, who had previously written about language policy as People's Commissar for Nationalities, read a letter by Arnold Chikobava criticizing the theory. He \"summoned Chikobava to a dinner that lasted from 9 p.m. to 7 a.m. taking notes diligently.\" In this way he grasped enough of the underlying issues to oppose this simplistic Marxist formalism, ending Marr's ideological dominance over Soviet linguistics. Stalin's principal work in the field was a small essay, \"Marxism and Linguistic Questions.\"\n\nPedology was a popular area of research on the basis of numerous orphanages created after the Russian Civil War. Soviet pedology was a combination of pedagogy and psychology of human development, that heavily relied on various tests. It was officially banned in 1936 after a special decree of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union \"On Pedolodical Perversions in the Narkompros System\" on July 4, 1936.\n\nIn the late 1940s, some areas of physics, especially quantum mechanics but also special and general relativity, were also criticized on grounds of \"idealism\". Soviet physicists, such as K. V. Nikolskij and D. Blokhintzev, developed a version of the statistical interpretation of quantum mechanics, which was seen as more adhering to the principles of dialectical materialism. However, although initially planned, this process did not go as far as defining an \"ideologically correct\" version of physics and purging those scientists who refused to conform to it, because this was recognized as potentially too harmful to the Soviet nuclear program.\nAfter the Russian Revolution, sociology was gradually \"politicized, Bolshevisized and eventually, Stalinized\". From 1930s to 1950s, the discipline virtually ceased to exist in the Soviet Union. Even in the era where it was allowed to be practiced, and not replaced by Marxist philosophy, it was always dominated by Marxist thought; hence sociology in the Soviet Union and the entire Eastern Bloc represented, to a significant extent, only one branch of sociology: Marxist sociology. With the death of Joseph Stalin and the 20th Party Congress in 1956, restrictions on sociological research were somewhat eased, and finally, after the 23rd Party Congress in 1966, sociology in Soviet Union was once again officially recognized as an acceptable branch of science.\n\nThe quality (accuracy and reliability) of data published in the Soviet Union and used in historical research is another issue raised by various Sovietologists. The Marxist theoreticians of the Party considered statistics as a social science; hence many applications of statistical mathematics were curtailed, particularly during the Stalin era. Under central planning, nothing could occur by accident. Law of large numbers or the idea of random deviation were decreed as \"false theories\". Statistical journals and university departments were closed; world-renowned statisticians like Andrey Kolmogorov or Eugen Slutsky abandoned statistical research.\n\nAs with all Soviet historiography, reliability of Soviet statistical data varied from period to period. The first revolutionary decade and the period of Stalin's dictatorship both appear highly problematic with regards to statistical reliability; very little statistical data were published from 1936 to 1956 (\"see\" Soviet Census (1937)). The reliability of data has improved after 1956 when some missing data was published and Soviet experts themselves published some adjusted data for the Stalin's era; however the quality of documentation has deteriorated.\n\nWhile on occasion statistical data useful in historical research might have been completely \"invented\" by the Soviet authorities, there is little evidence that most statistics were significantly affected by falsification or insertion of false data with the intent to confound the West. Data was however falsified both during collection – by local authorities who would be judged by the central authorities based on whether their figures reflected the central economy prescriptions – and by internal propaganda, with its goal to portray the Soviet state in most positive light to its very citizens. Nonetheless the policy of not publishing, or simply not collecting, data that was deemed unsuitable for various reasons was much more common than simple falsification; hence there are many gaps in Soviet statistical data. Inadequate or lacking documentation for much of Soviet statistical data is also a significant problem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47300092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47300092", "title": "Supreme Education Council (Qatar)", "text": "Supreme Education Council (Qatar)\n\nThe Supreme Education Council (, abbreviated SEC) is a Qatari government agency responsible for education in Qatar. It was established in November 2002. It is responsible for overseeing and directing the education system in Qatar and, subsequently, all of the country's independent schools. At the time of its founding, it replaced the Ministry of Education, which has since had its responsibilities reduced to providing support for the country's private schools. The Ministry of Education's personnel were consolidated into the SEC in 2009.\n\nThe SEC is headed by Mohammad bin Abdul Wahed Al-Hammadi, minister of education, and Hind bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the deputy minister.\n\nThe SEC has ten departments. The three most important are:\n\n"}
{"id": "31269312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31269312", "title": "Textbook Excellence Award (\"Texty\")", "text": "Textbook Excellence Award (\"Texty\")\n\nA Textbook Excellence Award (\"Texty\") from the Text and Academic Authors Association recognizes current textbooks and learning materials based on criteria established by the group. Judges are veteran authors in appropriate subject areas. Nominations from eight subject areas are reviewed each year from titles with a current or prior year date of publication. A maximum of one award per category is granted annually. The first year this award was granted was 1992.\n\nSubject areas awarded are:\n\n\nTexty Awards are presented at the TAA Awards Ceremony, held during the association’s annual conference in June.\n\n"}
{"id": "41332671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41332671", "title": "Trans Student Educational Resources", "text": "Trans Student Educational Resources\n\nTrans Student Educational Resources (TSER) is a United States-based organization that seeks to promote the wellbeing of transgender youth. It was founded in 2011 by activists Eli Erlick and Alex Sennello. It is the only national organization led by transgender youth.\n\nTSER provides resources to the public on how to support trans students, such as \"safe schools\" trainings for teachers, online infographics, and workshops at conferences. It is most notable for its members' work in media focused on transgender educational justice.\n\nTSER's mission statement reads,\n\nFounded in 2011 by two 16-year-old trans women, Trans Student Educational Resources began as an effort to start transgender policies in school districts in the United States and get more young trans people involved in activism. At that time, there were very few enumerated anti-discrimination policies in place around the country and there was a lack of visual resources on transgender issues. In 2012, TSER began its infographic series, which expanded its audience and member participation. TSER is also involved in the organizing of the annual Transgender Day of Visibility - a worldwide effort to raise promote the wellbeing of transgender people and to celebrate their successes.\n\nIn 2012, TSER began publishing transgender-related infographics. Following its success, the organization released dozens more. According to director Eli Erlick, TSER's graphics have been publicized by millions of blogs, web sites, and organizations and have been influential in educating the public on transgender issues. TSER staff have focused on their mission statement of \"advocacy and empowerment\" through speaking at conferences and providing information to those that need it.\n\nTSER also engages in trans youth leadership development, trainings for organizations, teachers, and students, media advocacy, and the creation of a scholarship program for trans students. In 2014, multiple members of TSER advocated in media for trans-inclusivity at women's colleges.\n\nTSER created the Gender Unicorn in 2014 to describe the spectrums of gender and sexuality. It was quickly picked up by schools, colleges, and universities across the world and has been translated into over a dozen languages. \n\nIn 2016 it was heavily criticized by conservative Evangelical Christians for being used in K-12 schools, leading to protests in Charlotte, North Carolina. In 2017, the Gender Unicorn was discussed in the Senate of Canada during debate regarding Bill C-16.\n\nIn 2014, the organization changed its name from Trans Student Equality Resources to Trans Student Educational Resources, citing that equality is \"not enough\" for the transgender community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55832925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55832925", "title": "Trinidad María Enríquez", "text": "Trinidad María Enríquez\n\nTrinidad María Enríquez (5 June 1846-20 April 1891) was a Peruvian teacher and student. After completing the only education available to her, she founded a school to teach other girls and complete the necessary requirements to enter university. Appealing to the president, she was granted the right to attend if an examination proved she was adequately prepared. Passing her review, \nEnríquez completed courses at the National University of Saint Anthony the Abbot in Cuzco, becoming the first Peruvian woman to earn a university degree in 1878. Though she graduated, she was denied a license to practice law and fought her case through the legislature and court systems until her death in 1891.\n\nTrinidad María Josefa Enríquez Ladrón de Guevara was born on 5 June 1846 in Cusco, Peru to Cecilia Ladrón de Guevara y Castilla and Marcelino Enríquez. Her parents were well to do and on her mother's side of the family, she descended from Túpac Amaru and his son Túpac Amaru II, per historian Horacio Villanueva Urteaga. She enrolled at \"El Colegio de señoritas \"Educandas\"\" (The Educandas Preparatory School for Girls) and excelled at her studies. At the time, there were no higher education opportunities for women and there were no schools offering a complete high school education for the final two years of study. Custom decreed that women were destined to become wives and mothers. The only training offered was restricted to upper class women and focused on preparing them with light reading, sewing and music to take their place in society.\n\nBy the age of eleven, Enríquez was teaching geography courses at Educandas. She founded a women's school, known as the \"Colegio Superior para Mujeres\" (High School for Women), on 1 June 1870. Included in her curricula were courses to prepare her to take the university entrance examinations, like analytical reading, arithmetic, Castilian grammar and lexicography, hygiene, and universal history, among others. Enríquez based the courses she offered on the requirements needed to attain entrance to university. Society was divided upon whether such education was necessary for women and after three years, she was forced to close the school. \n\nWanting to pursue higher education and become a lawyer, Enríquez applied for the university, after obtaining a governmental decree allowing her to take the entrance examinations. The decree, issued on 3 October 1874 required that her independent study for two years at her own school be validated, and if found acceptable, authorized her to enter any national university. From 20 to 29 April 1875, she was examined by a jury to determine her preparedness. The evaluations were published and much commented upon in the regional newspapers, but Enríquez was given high marks in the tests and allowed to enter university. She enrolled in the National University of Saint Anthony the Abbot in Cuzco and graduated in 1878 with a bachelor's degree in jurisprudence, as the first woman university graduate in the country.\n\nForbidden by law to receive a license as an attorney, Enríquez appealed to the Peruvian Congress and the Judiciary. Though Mariano Felipe Paz Soldán, the Minister of Justice and Instruction was in favor of allowing women to enter the profession, others were not. The advent of the War of the Pacific in 1879, prevented the legislature from considering her request. On 5 October 1881, President Nicolás de Piérola issued a presidential authorization to allow Enríquez admission to the bar. She rejected the exception, on the basis that the law should allow any woman equal access to become a lawyer. After the war ended, the legislature took up Enríquez request again and after consulting with the Superior Courts of Justice in Lima denied her request in 1886.\n\nIn 1870, Enríquez had founded the Artisan Society of Cusco, which operated a night school for workers, teaching them to read and write and educating them about their rights under the law. She also founded and edited the journal \"La voz del Cusco\" (The Voice of Cusco), which was focused on issues effecting women and wokers. The final decision of the courts on Lima was issued in 1891, by prosecutor Ricardo Espinoza, who denied the license on the basis that women lacked the physical strength and mental capacity to serve as professionals and that by granting them the rights to do so, they would become masculine.\n\nEnríquez died on 20 April 1891 in Lima, from brain fever and was buried at the Cementerio de la Almudena in Cusco. Enríquez persistence to enter university inspired other women and by 1908 a dozen other women had been allowed to enter university; however, the law faculty did not enroll another woman until 1913, when Rosa Pérez Liendo was allowed to begin her studies. In 1914, her portrait was hung in the main hall of the National University of Saint Anthony the Abbot. In 2005, Tania Gutiérrez Samanez published a biography \"Trinidad María Enríquez\" detailing her life and \"Trinidad María Enríquez, una abogada en los Andes\" (Trinidad María Enríquez, an attorney in the Andes) was published by Carlos Ramos Núñez and Martín Baigorria Castillo.\n\n"}
{"id": "51138145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51138145", "title": "Virtual University of Tunisia", "text": "Virtual University of Tunisia\n\nVirtual University of Tunisia is a Tunisian public virtual university founded by the 112-2 decree of January 28, 2002.\nBased on number 13 of Ibn Nadim street on Montplaisir district, the university is called for long term, and open formation\n"}
{"id": "44550792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44550792", "title": "Yexel Sebastian", "text": "Yexel Sebastian\n\nYexel Fernando Sebastian (born 12 March 1982) is a Filipino television personality,director,producer, dancer, toy collector and curator who owns the largest Optimus Prime bust in Asia.\n\nYexel Sebastian was born on 12 March 1982 to Vilmo Flores Sebastian (born August 28, 1961, Santa Cruz, Manila) and Ma. Carmen Sebastian. <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Maricar\"\n\nHis younger brother Jam was famous in the Philippines as a YouTube Artist.\n\nYexel Sebastian was a former member of the dance group Black and White Street Kids at Work to Beat Machine Higher Level, Street Boys, Sop Boys and Jabbawockeez Fanatics. He has Millions of Followers on Facebook and YouTube Yexel Channel that has over 30 Million Views,that Inspire many Filipino in his film titled <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Ok Lang Yan\"\n\nHaving a reputation of being the first Filipino toy collector to own three toy museums in the Philippines, he currently owns 10,000 toys. and over 300 Life Size Statues. \n\nYexel's Toy Museum has housed Yexel Sebastian's toy collection since 1989. The collection now includes over 10,000 toys and 300 Life Size Statues . It is located in Las Piñas, Philippines. The four-story building exhibits miniatures to life-sized cartoon, animation, video games and movie-based characters. Its main attraction is an 18-foot Optimus Prime bust created by Abet Valdecantos. \n\nSebastian<nowiki>'s second museum, named \"Yexel's Toy Collection\"</nowiki>, is located inside the Boom na Boom Complex in Pasay City. As of December 2014,\n\nYexel<nowiki>'s Toy Museum's third branch, dubbed as \"Amazing Stories of Yexel's Museum\"</nowiki>, in partnership with the Manila Ocean Park, was completed and introduced to the public.\n"}
{"id": "13671066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13671066", "title": "École d'Informatique d'Électronique et d'Expertise comptable", "text": "École d'Informatique d'Électronique et d'Expertise comptable\n\nThe is a school in Kinshasa devoted to computer science, electronics and accounting. The school was founded in 1972 by Anatole Musoko Kanumbi. The school's name is abbreviated to EIECO. It has played a leading role in the development of high-tech in the Kinshasa-Brazzaville area.\n\nEIECO offers programs in computer science, radio communications, telecommunications, electronics, electrical engineering, and accounting. It is modeled after similar institutions in Europe. \n"}
