{"id": "38252539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38252539", "title": "1999 in philosophy", "text": "1999 in philosophy\n\n1999 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38198035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38198035", "title": "2007 in philosophy", "text": "2007 in philosophy\n\n2007 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33456414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33456414", "title": "A Causal Theory of Knowing", "text": "A Causal Theory of Knowing\n\n\"A Causal Theory of Knowing\" is a philosophical essay written by Alvin Goldman in 1967, published in \"The Journal of Philosophy\". It is based on existing theories of knowledge in the realm of epistemology, the study of philosophy through the scope of knowledge. The essay attempts to define knowledge by connecting facts, beliefs and knowledge through underlying and connective series called causal chains. It provides a causal theory of knowledge.\n\nA causal chain is repeatedly described as a sequence of events for which one event in a chain causes the next. According to Goldman, these chains can only exist with the presence of an accepted fact, a belief in the fact, and a cause for the subject to believe the fact. The essay also explores the ideas of perception and memory through the use of the causal chains and the concept of knowledge.\n\nThe essay is regarded as an improvement and rebuttal of Edmund Gettier's \"Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?\", which is one of many attempts to explain the necessary conditions for knowledge to develop. Goldman implements the causal connection to reiterate his own theory of knowledge. Knowledge exists, says Goldman, if and only if the belief is justified by a reaction to the accepted fact.\n\nGoldman's theory later counters that of Michael Clark, stating that his own theory including figures and diagrams is more appropriate than Clark's. \"A Causal Theory of Knowing\" uses figures which make explicit references to causal beliefs. Clark's model does not utilize these arrows, and Goldman states that the lack of these arrows deems Clark's model deficient.\n\nAlvin Goldman, currently a professor of philosophy at Rutgers University, wrote \"A Causal Theory of Knowing\" when he was in his late twenties. Goldman received his Ph.D. from Princeton University, and has taught at numerous universities.\n\nGoldman's research deals mainly with epistemology and other cognitive sciences. \"A Causal Theory of Knowing\" was Goldman's first published paper explaining his own views of epistemology. Currently, Goldman has written more than ten essays focusing on knowledge and cognitive science.\n\nThe essay starts with a definition of Gettier's theory, followed by multiple reiterations of the idea of causal connections, figures to explain knowledge through a visual perspective, and references to perception and memory through causal chains.\n\nThe essay tends to focus on examples in which knowledge or other sensations do not exist, rather than proving a certain fact to be known. Goldman also states on multiple occasions that he does not wish to explain the causal process in detail, instead pointing out counterexamples. At numerous times in the essay, he also points out that he does not intend to give definitive answers to each of the propositions mentioned.\n\nGoldman also refocuses the idea of perception, or knowledge through sensation (specifically sight) using his own theory of knowing. The concept of causal perception indicates that one observes something only if the object itself causes the sensation of sight to be accepted as known. Thus, the object's existence must be factual and one must believe its existence. While all knowledge comes from facts, inferred knowledge emerges when physical object facts cause sense data which can be perceived as senses. The sense data can also be used to make conclusions, known as inferred knowledge, about certain physical object facts.\n\nFrom \"A Causal Theory of Knowing\", Goldman constructs the idea that memory is also a causal process. Memory is explained as being an extension of knowledge into the future, and remembering is the act of recalling a fact that has already been known. Further, the theory states that if knowledge is forgotten at one time, it cannot be considered a memory in the future. According to Goldman, if a fact is known at Time 1 but forgotten at Time 2, and then at Time 3 that the fact is perceived again but not known, at Time 3 the original fact is not a memory because there is no causal connection between the fact and the memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "15934899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15934899", "title": "Adam Zachary Newton", "text": "Adam Zachary Newton\n\nAdam Zachary Newton is\nChair of the Department of English at Yeshiva University and the former Jane and Rowland Blumberg Centennial Professor in English at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nNewton is a graduate of Haverford College and has a Ph.D. from Harvard University (1992). While at Harvard, his book, \"Narrative ethics\", \"sought a bridge between the disciplines of ethical philosophy and literary studies by proposing a new way to think about the moral realms of risk and responsibility as problems of reading.\" He defines narrative ethics as \"the ethical consequences of narrating story... and the reciprocal claims binding teller, listener, witness, and reader in that process.\" Other scholars apply his approach and find new ways to read old books.\n\nNewton married Miriam Udel in 2011, who had read his book \"Narrative ethics\" twice, years before meeting him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1199598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1199598", "title": "Afro-Shirazi Party", "text": "Afro-Shirazi Party\n\nThe Afro-Shirazi Party (ASP) was the union between the mostly Shirazi Shiraz Party and the mostly African Afro Party in the island of Zanzibar. The formation of ASP led to the ouster of the Arabs from power with the Zanzibar Revolution in 1964. The party joined with the Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) to form Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) in January 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "42073651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42073651", "title": "Antun Bauer (archbishop)", "text": "Antun Bauer (archbishop)\n\nAntun Bauer (February 11, 1856 – December 7, 1937) was a Yugoslav theologian and philosopher who served as Archbishop of Zagreb.\n\nHe was born in Breznica, Croatia, hailing from a family of Burgenland Croats. He studied in Zagreb, Budapest and Vienna, where he received his PhD in philosophy and theology in 1883. He was ordained in 1879. After returning from his studies, for a time was a chaplain in Zagreb, Ivanec and Samobor, and afterwards he worked for a few years in Zagreb as a catechist in the male teachers' training college and high school. In 1887 he was transferred to the Faculty of Theology, where he worked at first as a lecturer, then as an associate, and since 1904 as a full professor of philosophy and basic theology. In 1905–1906 and 1906–1907 he served as the Dean of the Theological Faculty, and in the period 1906–1907 as the Rector of the University of Zagreb. Since 1896 was an associate, and since in 1899 full member of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts (from 1915 to his death also a sponsor).\n\nIn 1911 he was appointed coadjutor to Archbishop Juraj Posilović. On April 26, 1914 he took the management of the Zagreb Archdiocese. He was an editor (1886–1890) and a longtime collaborator of \"Katolički list\" and many other Catholic newsletters. In the period of 1885–1911 he was elected as a representative for five times, which enabled him to actively participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament. At first he was a member of the Party of Rights (\"Stranka prava\"), and afterward as a representative of \"Matica stranke prava\", i.e. \"Udružena opozicija\" (\"United Opposition\"), and finally as a representative of the Croatian Party of Rights, whence he approached the Croatian-Serbian Coalition.\n\nAs an Archbishop, Bauer mainly dealt with church affairs. At his instigation and under his presidency the Croatian Bishops' Conference was established in 1918. In 1925 he organized the first synod of the Archdiocese of Zagreb (after 1690). In 1922 he participated in the work of the Commission for the preparation of the concordat. He is also credited for turning the Institute of St. Jerome into a national institution. Together with Đokovo bishop Antun Akšamović he built a seminary and high school in Zagreb. He also helped the reestablishment of Caritas in Croatia.\n\nIn the period of up to the 1914 Bauer has established himself as a prolific philosophical writer. In his philosophical and theological works he advocated the Neo-Thomist interpretation of metaphysics.\n\nHe died in Zagreb.\n\n"}
{"id": "35154859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35154859", "title": "Arild Haaland", "text": "Arild Haaland\n\nArild Peter Haaland (13 December 1919 – 24 January 2012) was a Norwegian philosopher, literary historian, translator and non-fiction writer. He was born in Bergen. His thesis from 1956 was an analysis of the Nazism in Germany. He was decorated Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1979. He received the Fritt Ord Award in 1992. Haaland was portrayed by sculptor Arnold Haukeland, and by the painters Odd Nerdrum and Karl Erik Harr.\n"}
{"id": "33590192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33590192", "title": "Christoph Scriba", "text": "Christoph Scriba\n\nChristoph J. Scriba (October 6, 1929 – July 26, 2013) was a German historian of mathematics.\n\nScriba was born in Darmstadt and studied at \"Justus-Liebig-University Giessen\". He read James Gregory's early writings on the calculus with Joseph Ehrenfried Hofmann, and was awarded his doctorate in 1957. Continuing with J.E. Hofmann, and with Bernard Sticker, he investigated the papers of John Wallis in Oxford in 1966, contributing to \"Studies on the Mathematics John Wallis\".\n\nScriba then taught at the University of Kentucky, the University of Massachusetts and at the University of Toronto from 1959 to 1962. He became chairman of Technical University of Berlin's department of History of Mathematics in 1969. Then in 1975 he became Professor of History of Natural Science and Mathematics at the University of Hamburg and Director of the Institute until he retired in 1995. His successor there was Karin Reich.\n\nScriba was on the Executive Committee of the International Commission on the History of Mathematics and its president from 1977 to 1985. He was a member of Jungius company in Hamburg, the Leopoldina, the International Academy of the History of Science, and since 1995 the Göttingen Academy of Sciences. In 1993 he was awarded the Kenneth O. May Prize of the ICHM. He was the doctorate advisor of Eberhard Knobloch. He died in July 2013 in Hamburg.\n\n\nJoseph W. Dauben \"et al.\" (eds): History of mathematics. State of the Art Flores quadrivii. Studies in Honor of Christoph J. Scriba . Academic Press, San Diego, CA \"et al.\" 1996, .\n\n"}
{"id": "3201760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3201760", "title": "Class collaboration", "text": "Class collaboration\n\nClass collaboration is a principle of social organization based upon the belief that the division of society into a hierarchy of social classes is a positive and essential aspect of civilization.\n\nClass collaboration is one of the main pillars of social architecture in fascism. In the words of Benito Mussolini, fascism \"affirms the irremediable, fruitful and beneficent inequality of men.\" Given this premise, fascists conclude that the preservation of social hierarchy is in the interests of all classes, and therefore all classes should collaborate in its defense. Both the lower and the higher classes should accept their roles and perform their respective duties.\n\nIn fascist thought, the principle of class collaboration is combined with strong ultranationalism. The stability and the prosperity of the nation was seen as the ultimate purpose of collaboration between classes.\n\nCommunists are ideologically and fundamentally opposed to class collaboration, advocating for class struggle and generally favoring a classless society instead.\n\nWhereas the doctrine of class struggle urges the lower classes to overthrow the ruling class and the existing social order for the purpose of establishing equality, the doctrine of class collaboration urges them to accept inequality as part of the natural state of things and preserve the social order. Furthermore, it holds that the State alone 'reconciles' class antagonisms in society, and that the strife which gives rise to Communism can be harmonized.\n\nSome Marxists use the term \"class collaboration\" as a pejorative term describing working class organisations that do not pursue class struggle. In this sense the term echoes the connotations of collaborationism.\n\nAt the same time, however, communists do not necessarily reject all alliances between classes. Some communists argue that, in a country with a large peasant population, the transition to communism can be accomplished by an alliance between two classes, the peasantry and the proletariat, united against the bourgeois class. Mao Zedong's New Democracy concept calls for \"the peasantry, the proletariat, the petty bourgeoisie and national and patriotic elements from the bourgeoisie to collectively operate for the building of a socialist society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24462256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462256", "title": "David Oswald Thomas", "text": "David Oswald Thomas\n\nDavid Oswald Thomas (4 March 1924 – 28 May 2005) was a Welsh philosopher, best known as an interpreter of the work of Richard Price.\n\nThomas was born in Rhuthun, Denbighshire, the son of the Clerk to the Department of Education for the county. He was educated at Denbigh Grammar School, after which he worked as a bank clerk. In 1943, after two years in the bank, he joined the RAF. He served until 1946. Stationed for most of the time in the Middle East, he served one and a half years in Iraq. At the end of his service he took advantage of a scheme for demobilizing into university and studied philosophy at the University College of Wales, Bangor. His student days were marked by the onset of ankylosing spondylitis. After completing his degree, Thomas studied the British idealists for his MA, and then moved from Bangor to London where, for his PhD, he studied the political philosophy of Richard Price. His choice of subject had been influenced by the publication in 1948 of D.D. Raphael's new edition of Price's \"A Review of the Principal Questions in Morals\", first published 190 years earlier. He was successively Tutor in Philosophy and Psychology at Coleg Harlech 1955-60; Lecturer in Philosophy, UCW Aberystwyth 1960-67, Senior Lecturer 1967-79, Reader 1979-83. In 1965, he married Dr Beryl Jones, with whom he had one daughter, Janet. Thomas died in Aberystwyth on 28 May 2005.\n\nDr. Thomas made Richard Price, the eighteenth-century Welsh philosopher and polymath, his life's work. In 1977 he published the definitive study of Price, \"The Honest Mind\". This was followed by the complete correspondence of Price, which he produced in collaboration with Bernard Peach of Duke University, and with the assistance of his wife, Beryl Thomas.\n\nThomas felt that thinkers like Price had received insufficient attention and wished to encourage studies in that area. In 1977, in collaboration with Dr. Martin FitzPatrick, he began the \"Price-Priestley Newsletter\", which in 1982, matured into the journal \"Enlightenment and Dissent\". The journal itself fulfilled his expectations, publishing major articles on eighteenth-century thought including special issues on Samuel Clarke and \"Enlightenment, Religion, Science and Popular Culture\".\n\nThomas had a special ability to combine philosophical insight with historical understanding. Immune to fashionable trends in the history of philosophy and of ideas, he was critical of the concept of paradigms of thought associated with the work of J. G. A. Pocock. He preferred the notion of traditions, yet was also insistent that traditions of thought should not be viewed as mutually exclusive. His own method enabled him to analyse philosophical problems as they appeared to eighteenth-century writers and at the same time to indicate how those problems might still pose difficulties for us today. His examination of the conflict between Price and Edmund Burke in The Honest Mind is a fine example of his approach. He identified the essential differences between the two thinkers while also demonstrating that Burke's attack on Price was founded, at least in part, on a misunderstanding of Price's political principles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1197881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197881", "title": "Derech Hashem", "text": "Derech Hashem\n\nDerech HaShem (The \"Way of God\") is a philosophical text written in the 1730s by Rabbi Moshe Chaim Luzzatto. It systematizes the basic principles of Jewish belief regarding the existence of God, God's purpose in creation, and the logical consequence of other concepts in Judaism. The reader is led from thought to idea, from idea to a logical whole of the structure of Jewish belief. \n\nPresented from a Kabbalistic perspective, yet presupposing no prior knowledge and without the use of Kabbalistic terminology, this work provides a foundation for understanding the worldview and ideas found in the \"Zohar\", the writings of Rabbi Isaac Luria the \"Ari'zal\" and other Kabbalistic works. \n\nThe book is organized into four main sections: the general basis of all existence, God's Divine Providence, prophecy, and religious observance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56394191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56394191", "title": "Detroit Black Community Food Security Network", "text": "Detroit Black Community Food Security Network\n\nThe Detroit Black Community Food Security Network (DBCFSN) is an urban, community-oriented, predominantly black, grassroots food justice group. The organization was initiated by a communal desire to start an organic garden collective, and has grown from its founding in 2006 with over 50 Detroit residents as members. In an effort to combat food insecurity and increase food sovereignty, DBCFSN established a community accessible food farm in 2008, known as D-Town Farm, which grows over 30 types of fruits and vegetables on seven acres of land.\n\nThe goal of the organization is to increase food security and sovereignty within Detroit’s black population. It formulates efforts to provide communal access to spaces where food is healthy, available, and affordable. DBCFSN uses community activism, alliance building and educational programs to highlight various structures which perpetuate the inequality of black communities in present-day Detroit. Currently, DBCFSN is working to establish the Detroit People’s Food Cooperative with goals of opening by mid-to-late 2019.\n\nFollowing the 1950s city demolition of Black Bottom and Paradise Valley for highway construction, the residents of Detroit increased the presence of the Black Power Movement, and the Civil Rights Movement, throughout the 1960's. By 1967, Pastor Albert Cleage, founder of the Central United Church of Christ, later named the Shrines of the Black Madonna of the Pan-African Orthodox Christian Church, founded the Black Star Market, the first black communal cooperative business. The co-op closed within two years, but started forming the framework for much of DBCFSN’s work. Mayor Coleman Young of Detroit developed and implemented the Farm-A-Lot program in 1975 to encourage urban agriculture in the city, but the impact of this effort faded at the turn of the century.\n\nOutside and foreign investors, white flight, and the collapse of the automobile industry have made it difficult for local Detroit residents to own land, a reflection of the trend since 1910 of African American land ownership. The 1980s of Detroit maintained a trend of supermarket closures, with Farmer Jack, the last chain grocery store in Detroit in 2007. Years before the United States financial crisis of 2008, Detroit entered a recession. After the country-wide recession struck, Detroit's depression worsened, which resulted in increases in unemployment, crime, and poverty levels.\n\nOne third of Detroit residents do not own automobiles and many passengers of public transportation wait an hour at bus stops. The low economic status of the city is illustrated by the following statistics: 30% of Detroit's residents remain unemployed, and 36% live in poverty. Additionally, the Food Access Research Atlas (FARA) has designated Detroit as a low income and low food access region. Classified as a food desert, 80% of Detroit residents rely on \"fringe food\" provided by fast food chains, liquor stores, and corner stores. To address food insecurity, the city of Detroit has launched the Detroit Agricultural Network (DAN) in 1997, and the Garden Resource Program in 2004, later named Keep Detroit Growing in 2013. The Detroit Food and Fitness Collaborative is an overarching group of 40 organizations, including Keep Growing Detroit and the Detroit Food Justice Task Force. The organizations work to ensure that children and families have access to healthy, locally-grown food, and they work to promote healthier life styles. The city is also one of nine communities across the country to receive assistance from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation in efforts to promote community involvement and growth in ensuring lifestyles of health and fitness. The W.K. Kellogg Foundation promotes the idea that all children should have equal opportunity to live and thrive, focusing on communities where children and families are vulnerable. Communities within Detroit utilize these efforts along with several other organizations to address the growing issue of poverty, and to spread awareness of the impacts that these social issues can pose.\n\nIn 2000, Malik Yakini, principal of Nsoroma Institute Public School Academy charter school, worked with staff, parents and supporters (including Anan Lololi of the Afr-Can Food Basket) to implement organic gardening and to develop a food security curriculum. The garden grew to form the Shamba Organic Garden Collective (SOGC), where faculty and parents plotted and maintained 20 gardens in backyards and vacant lots. \"Groundbreakers\" took on the role of tilling gardens for community members who were unable to do so. The founding meeting of DBCFSN occurred in 2006 when Yakini assembled a group of 40 community members strongly connected to food at the Black Star Community Bookstore. This would have not been possible without the organizations effect in influencing public policy. People such as JoAnne Watson and council man Kwame Kenyatta were crucial characters in connecting this cause to the people within the Detroit City Council who eventually approved the food security policy. The specific policy in which DBCFSN is particularly concerned is \"the Right to Farm act.\" This states no higher power has authority to create laws and regulate agriculture in their area. This is an important case for DBCFS because they need to refrain from breaking any laws and regulations while carrying out the mission to develop healthy urban agricultural systems.\n\nThe group discussed the need for black community involvement in urban agriculture, as well as food justice, security and sovereignty. The newfound Detroit Black Community Food Security Network began gardening on a quarter-acre plot of land in Detroit’s east side, quickly moving to a half-acre plot in Detroit’s westside. In 2008, DBCFSN secured a long-term lease on seven acres of property in Rouge Park, establishing D-Town Farm as the city’s largest community run farm. Currently, DBCFSN operates the D-Town Farm, The Food Warriors Youth Development Program (under the leadership of Education and Outreach Director Hanifa Adjuman) and is opening the Detroit People's Food Cooperative in 2019.\n\nDetroit Black Community Food Security Network has more than 70 members, of which 80% are women, including individuals, seven families, and one organization. The D-Town Farm maintains one full-time employee, five part‐time farmers, and around ten internships annually. Many of the members are lifelong \"Detroiters\". Members of DBCFSN generally identify with Black Nationalism and political analysis from the Black Power Movement, and have been engaged with community involvement in prior experiences.\n\nMalik Yakini, the primary co-founder of DBCFSN and the Executive Director of the organization, handles the daily operations of the organization. His experience promoting food justice in the African-centered charter school Nsoroma Institute Public School Academy in Detroit provided a platform for community engagement and education. His work as a black liberation activist and bookstore owner has made him popular among Detroit's black residents. Within the Detroit community, he is known as an urban farming pioneer, as well as an advocate for the urban agricultural movement. Additionally, he is an educator, he teaches topics such as African history and culture, sustainable agriculture, and systems of oppression including white supremacy, capitalism, and patriarchy. His work is directed to guide and inspire members of the community to join in the drive to build more localized urban agricultural systems for struggling Detroit community members.\n\nThe Board of Directors for DBCFSN includes Albert Seevers, Shakara Tyler, Nikolette Barnes, Ndidika Vernon and Charles Needham. This board determine the organizational policies of DBCFSN and appoints the Executive Director. Nikolette Barnes is also on the staff of Keep Growing Detroit, an organization that promotes the growth and production of urban gardening throughout Detroit. The organization works closely with efforts similar to those of the DBCFSN, urging community members to think proactively about the sources of their food, and encouraging the support of local gardening efforts. Similar to the DBSFSN, Keep Growing Detroit also includes educational efforts, such as youth programs, which aim to provide more information about food sovereignty to the community. The organizations work simultaneously towards the same goal, which is to increase efforts of community engagement combating food insecurity.\n\nThere are three levels of membership in DBCFSN: an individual membership which is $10 in annual dues, a family membership which is $25, and an organizational membership which costs $120. All of the money supports DBCFSN’s community work, and members are eligible for D-Town farm produce discounts. Membership meetings are held monthly at the DBCFSN office (11000 W McNichols, Suite 103, Detroit, MI 48221). This membership connects people through the Detroit People's Food Co-op. This Co-op is a part of DBCFN's community development complex known as the Detroit Food Commons. A significant community development project that connects the local community to a large amount of resources to better themselves and their knowledge and well-being.\n\nDBCFSN extends the legacy of the Black Freedom Movement, attributing foundational ideas to those of Ida B. Wells, Malcolm X, Fannie Lou Hammer, Rev. Albert B. Cleage and others . The organization identifies love, black self-determination, integrity, justice, respect for life and nature, and sustainability as their core values. Their work is dedicated to creating co-operative systems of agricultural development that will better the lives of community members.\n\nDBCFSN aims to transform the city of Detroit by encouraging African Americans to take control of their food system. DBCFSN models community and self-determination, and they direct youth into food related fields. They maintain a policy framework that aims to eliminate barriers preventing African-American land ownership, and redistribute wealth through co-operative communal ownership This is represented in the since that DBCFSN connects with the Detroits Peoples Food Co-op and the Detroit Food Commons, creating a large scale multifaceted community engagement project.\n\nUpon their formation, DBCFSN acquired use of a quarter acre plot of land near the 4-H Club on McClellan in the Eastside of Detroit in 2006, and the land was purchased by a developer in the fall of that year. In June 2007, the organization acquired use of a half acre plot of land owned by the Pan African Orthodox Christian Church.\n\nAfter 2 years of planning and meetings with the Detroit City Council and the City Planning and Recreation Department, DBCFSN acquired a temporary 10-year license agreement to use a designated 2 acre site in the City of Detroit's Meyers' Tree Nursery in Rouge Park for $1 annually. In 2010, the site expanded from 2 acres to 7 acres, becoming the permanent placement for the D-Town Farm. The lease expires in 2018.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2010, DBCFSN was funded solely through membership dues and contributions of members and supporters. The D-Town Farm hosts an annual Harvest Festival which attracts local and regional supporters by the hundreds. In 2010, the organization received funding from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, one of the top 3 U.S. funders of sustainable agriculture and the alternative agri-food movement.\n\nIn 2015, The Greening of Detroit and DBCFSN collaborated to receive a USDA Beginning Framers and Ranchers Grant to train new farmers in Detroit. In 2016, DBCFSN, along with six other healthy food businesses, received a grant from Michigan Good Food Fund. Funding has also come from various USDA grants, as well as the Fair Food Network, Metabolic Lab, Capital Impact Partners, Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, City Connect and Whole Foods Market.\n\nThere are three types of Membership one can have in the DBCFSN, Organizational, Family, and Individual, though the difference between the three (besides the price) isn't clear. Anyone with a membership can vote. Members rely on multiple streams of funding such as grants and loans from members, and the purchase of shares to set the groundwork for the Co-op; this ensures the just values and integrity of the Co-op are in rooted in intentionality and maintenance. The Goal of the project is to reach 1,200 member/owners by 2019.\n\nThis program began in the crop season of 2006, but became officiated in 2008 with the acquisition of land in Rogue Park. The structures implemented on the 7 acre plot include several hoop houses, in-ground vegetable plots, composting sites, an apple orchard and a bee-keeping operation. During the 2010 growing season, they produced upwards of 37 different crops including: acorn squash, zucchini, kale, collards, tomatoes, basil, green beans, cabbage, watermelon, pumpkins, beets, turnips, radishes, and more. The D-Town farm is operated by female volunteer communal DBCFSN members who assist the farm in selling the crops to various farmers markets.\n\nThis co-operative operated by DBCFSN from 2008 - 2016, provided community members with an alternative place to buy household goods, bulk items, healthy foods and supplements for an affordable price The word Ujamaa comes from the Swahili term for \"collective economics\". The Ujamaa Food Buying Club works with the Uprooting Racism, Planting Justice Program (note: the official website link on the facebook page doesn't work). in forming anti-racism dialogues within Detroit There are currently 100 members of the Ujamaa Food Co-op in the Detroit metro area. This system alleviates the issue for these 100 members to shop primarily at the ever so present fringe food retail stores.\n\nDBCFSN has been working since 2010 to launch the Detroit People's Food Co-operative in 2018, although the opening date has since been changed to 2019. The co-op intends to increase community ownership and food access among Detroit's Historic North End's residents. The co-op is expected to introduce over 20 jobs to the area, with aspirations of 1,200 community members joining the program.\n\nMalik Yakini and DBCFSN are currently working on a project named the Detroit Food Commons Project. It will be 30,000 square feet, and will feature the Detroit People's Food Co-op mentioned above, a local cafe, kitchen, and meeting rooms for DBCFSN and the local community. Because the project is so grand-scale, there has been some difficulties getting it together. This project has been worked on for 7 years.\n\nDBCFSN established the Food Warriors Youth Development Program as an African-centered program for young people between 5 – 12 years of age, that seeks to educate Detroit youth on food, where it comes from, and how to grow it locally and sustainably. It consists of an after-school program at Timbuktu Academy of Science and Technology and a Saturday Community Food Warriors Program at the Pan African Orthodox Christian Church. Children are provided with tools to develop their own sense of agency by learning how to plant, tend, and harvest a garden and how healthy eating is connected to the health of their overall community. The program also strives to de-stigmatize the connection many people have between agriculture and African Americans. What really sets the Food Warriors initiative apart is their seven principles of Nguzo Saba. This is a set of core values that signify the importance of strengthening the family, community and the African centered paradigm.\n\nThe \"What's For Dinner\" lecture series is hosted by DBCFSN through the Charles H. Wright Museum of African American History annually during the months of April, June, August and October. The lectures are free and open to the public, and they concentrate on issues within the food system with intentions of informing the Detroit public. Previous lecturers at these events include Dr. Jessica B. Harriss, Cashawn Meyers and Anthony Hatinger.\n\nThe roots of DBCFSN trace back to the U.S. Civil Rights Movement and the Black Power Movement within Detroit. The organization operates under a food sovereignty policy framework, guided by principles including food as a human right, agrarian reform, protection of natural resources, reorganization of food trade, ending hunger, peace and democracy. In June 2006, chaired by JoAnn Watson, DBCFSN spoke before the Neighborhood and Community Service Standing Committee of the Detroit City Council to implement a food security policy for the city of Detroit.\n\nThe Public Policy Committee of DBCFSN presented the draft at a public forum during their September 2007 Harvest Festival. The City Council of Detroit unanimously passed the Detroit Food Security Policy bill on March 25, 2008. The bill includes plans for developing a food system analysis database for Detroit, undertaking data collection on hunger and malnutrition, formulating recommendations for alternative food systems such as urban agriculture, creating citizen education guidelines, and producing an emergency response plan in the event of a natural disaster.\n"}
{"id": "38218027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38218027", "title": "Dimitar Gyuzelov", "text": "Dimitar Gyuzelov\n\nDimitar Gyuzelov () was a Bulgarian revolutionary and philosopher. He is the father of Macedonian writer Bogomil Gyuzel and artist Liljana Gyuzelova, who between 1996 and 2006 worked on an art installation titled \"The Perpetual Return,\" dedicated to her father, his murder, and the stigma that the children of prominent Bulgarians who had been persecuted by the Yugoslav authorities after 1945 had to endure.\n\nGyuzelov was born in 1902 in Doyran, but after the destruction of the city during World War I his family moved to Strumica. He finished Serbian high school in that city and then studied philosophy and Slavic studies in the Faculty of Philosophy in Skopje, during which time he was sponsored by Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO). In 1924 he joined the Macedonian Youth Secret Revolutionary Organization (MYSRO) shortly after its establishment and initial development, and like this organized wide activities by forming a nuclei of organization in many cities of Macedonia.\n\nAfter the occupation of most of the Yugoslav Vardar Banovina by Bulgaria in 1941, Gyuzelov returned to Vardar Macedonia and became director of Radio Skopje. After the end of war, the Communist government of Yugoslavia sentenced him to death by hanging, labeling him like many other prominent Macedonian Bulgarians as a \"Bulgarian fascist\". He was shot, together with Dimitar Chkatrov, in the vicinity of Zaychev Rid, three kilometers outside of Skopje.\n\n"}
{"id": "33570164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33570164", "title": "Dominic Bezzina", "text": "Dominic Bezzina\n\nDominic Bezzina (18th/19th centuries) was a minor Maltese philosopher who mainly specialised in physics. He also dealt with logic.\n\nIt seems that Bezzina was born around the mid-18th century. After becoming a priest, he taught philosophy and science at the Cathedral School at Mdina, Malta. He was also a Canon at the Bishop’s Cathedral Chapter. Bezzina taught at Mdina at least since 1819. One of the courses he delivered concerned physics.\n\nBezzina’s only extant work is called Institutum Philosophicum (Philosophical Teaching). It is still in manuscript form, and contains 171 back to back folios. Unfortunately, the document is certainly incomplete. The extant manuscript is just the first part of a larger work. It is not known how many further part the whole work contained.\n\nThe extant part of the \"Institutum\" concerns logic. The division is typically that of Scholasticism, organised in books, chapters, and articles. Throughout the work Bezzina discusses the nature and conditions of Aristotelian logic, consciousness, and the genesis of ideas.\n\n"}
{"id": "4240618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240618", "title": "Ernest Sosa", "text": "Ernest Sosa\n\nErnest Sosa (born June 17, 1940) is an American philosopher primarily interested in epistemology. He is Board of Governors Professor of Philosophy at Rutgers University since 2007, but spent most of his career at Brown University. \n\nBorn in Cárdenas, Cuba on June 17, 1940, Sosa earned his BA and MA from the University of Miami and his PhD from the University of Pittsburgh in 1964 where his dissertation was supervised by Nicholas Rescher.\n\nHe joined the Rutgers faculty in 2007, having taught previously at Brown University since 1964. While full-time at Brown, he was also a distinguished visiting professor at Rutgers every spring from 1998-2006. Sosa has been described as \"one of the most important epistemologists of the last half-century.\"\n\nSosa is a past president of the American Philosophical Association and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. He edits the philosophical journals \"Noûs\" and \"Philosophy and Phenomenological Research\". In 2005, he delivered the John Locke Lectures at Oxford, which formed the basis of his 2007 book.\n\nHe was also the 2010 recipient of the Nicholas Rescher Prize for contributions to systematic philosophy, conferred by the University of Pittsburgh biennially.\n\nHis son, David Sosa, is a professor and chair of the philosophy department at the University of Texas, Austin.\n\nIn addition to epistemology, Sosa has also written on metaphysics, modern philosophy and philosophy of mind. In his books \"Knowledge in Perspective\" (1991) and \"A Virtue Epistemology\" (2007), Sosa defends a form of virtue epistemology called \"virtue perspectivism\", which distinguishes animal knowledge from reflective knowledge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11283", "title": "Falsifiability", "text": "Falsifiability\n\nA statement, hypothesis, or theory has falsifiability (or is falsifiable) if it is contradicted by a basic statement, which, in an eventual successful or failed falsification, must respectively correspond to a true or hypothetical observation. For example, the claim \"all swans are white\" is falsifiable since it is contradicted by this basic statement: \"In 1697, during the Dutch explorer Willem de Vlamingh expedition, there were black swans on the shore of the Swan River in Australia\", which in this case is a true observation. The concept is also known by the terms refutable and refutability.\n\nThe concept was introduced by the philosopher of science Karl Popper. He saw falsifiability as the logical part and the cornerstone of his scientific epistemology, which sets the limits of scientific inquiry. He proposed that statements and theories that are not falsifiable are unscientific. Declaring an unfalsifiable theory to be scientific would then be pseudoscience.\n\nThe classical view of the philosophy of science is that it is the goal of science to prove hypotheses like \"All swans are white\" or to induce them from observational data. The Inductivist methodology supposes that one can somehow move from a series of statements such as 'here is a white swan', 'over there is a white swan', and so on, to a universal statement such as 'all swans are white'. As observed by David Hume, Immanuel Kant and later by Popper and others, this method is clearly \"deductively\" invalid, since it is always possible that there may be a non-white swan that has eluded observation (and, in fact, the discovery of the Australian black swan demonstrated the deductive invalidity of this particular statement). This is known as the problem of induction.\n\nOne solution to the problem of induction, proposed by Immanuel Kant in Critique of Pure Reason, is to consider as valid absolutely a priori the conclusions that we would otherwise have drawn from these dubious inferential inductions. Following Kant, Popper accepted that we have to work with unproven hypotheses, but he refused that we have to justify them in any way and he wrote : \"I do not think that his ingenious attempt to provide an a priori justification for synthetic statements was successful.\" However, if one finds one single swan that is not white, deductive logic admits the conclusion that the statement that all swans are white is false. Falsificationism thus strives for questioning, for falsification, of hypotheses instead of proving them or trying to view them as valid in any way.\n\nFor a statement to be questioned using observation, it needs to be at least theoretically possible that it can come into conflict with observation. A key observation of falsificationism is thus that a criterion of demarcation is needed to distinguish those statements that can come into conflict with observation and those that cannot, but the criterion itself concerns only the logical form of the theory: \n\nPopper always insisted on a clear distinction between the logic (of falsifiability) and its applied less precise methodology. The required logical form, the criterion, is that there must exist basic statements that contradict the theory (and also some that corroborate it because the theory must be consistent). This logical form informally implies the possibility of refutations by experience because, in its informal methodological context, a basic statement must be intersubjective and interpretable in terms of observations.\n\nObjections can be raised against falsifiability as a criterion of demarcation similar to those which can be raised against verifiability. For example, as pointed out by many and reformulated by Colin McGinn, \nVery early, in anticipation of this specific objection Popper wrote, \nIn its simple form, the point here is that although a singular existential statement such as 'there is a white swan in Europe' cannot be used to affirm a universal statement, it can be used to show that one is false: the statement 'there is a non white swan in Australia' implies that the universal statement 'all swans are white' is false. Moreover, this singular existential statement is empirical: it is impractical to observe all the swans in the world to verify that they are all white, but one can observe one swan that is not white. This shows the fundamental difference between verifiability and falsifiability. Also, in the logical form of the theory, there is no notion of future experiments, but only a (formal) class of basic statements that contradict it.\n\nSuch a simple contradiction with a basic statement is not what Popper calls a falsification. A falsification usually entails a derivation from a system of statements, which include the universal statement and initial conditions, to a singular statement, which is contradicted by a falsifying hypothesis, but the argument can be generalized. Popper explains \n\nThe falsifiability criterion does not imply that unfalsifiable systems such as logic, mathematics and metaphysics are not parts of science. Contrary to intuition, unfalsifiable statements can be embedded in—and deductively entailed by—falsifiable theories. For example, while \"all men are mortal\" is unfalsifiable, it is a logical consequence of the falsifiable theory that \"all men die 150 years after their birth at the latest\". Similarly, the ancient metaphysical and unfalsifiable idea of the existence of atoms has led to corresponding falsifiable modern theories. Popper invented the notion of metaphysical research programs to name such unfalsifiable ideas that guide the search for a new theory.\n\nThus falsificationism has two levels. At the logical level, scientists use deductive logic to attempt to falsify theories. At the non-logical level, they decide on some criteria, which use falsification and other factors, to pick which theories they will study, improve, replace, apply or (further) test. These other criteria may take into account a metaphysical research program. They are not considered in the formal falsifiability criterion, but they can give a meaning to this criterion. Needless to say, for Popper, these other criteria, the so called rules of the game, are necessary. Some philosophers consider them as parts of Popper's demarcation criterion, but Popper viewed them only as a necessary context.\n\nIn contrast to Positivism, which held that statements are meaningless if they cannot be verified or falsified, Popper claimed that falsifiability is merely a special case of the more general notion of critical rationalism, even though he admitted that empirical refutation is one of the most effective methods by which theories can be criticized. Criticizability, in contrast to falsifiability, and thus rationality, may be comprehensive (i.e., have no logical limits), though this claim is controversial, even among proponents of Popper's philosophy and critical rationalism.\n\nFor Popper (and others) in any scientific discussion we accept a background knowledge. Such a background knowledge is thus implicit in the definition of falsifiability and corresponds to different types of statements, their relationship and their interpretation in terms of observations and measurements.\n\nRecall that a theory is falsifiable if it is contradicted by a basic statement. It remains to define what kind of statements create theories and what are basic statements. Scientific theories are a particular kind of universal statements. Basic statements are particular kind of existential statements. Not all universal statements are theories and not all existential statements are basic statements. Theories have the form of strictly universal statements. Basic statements have the form of singular existential statements. Thus we need to distinguish between existential and universal statements and also between singular and strict statements.\n\nExistential and universal statements are built-in concepts in logic. The first are statements such as \"there is a white swan\". Logicians call these statements existential statements, since they assert the existence of something. They are equivalent to a first-order logic statement of the form: \"There exists an x such that x is a swan, and x is white.\" The second are statements that categorize all instances of something, such as \"all swans are white\". Logicians call these statements universal. They are usually parsed in the form: \"For all x, if x is a swan, then x is white\".\n\nUnlike existential and universal statements, singular and strict statements are not built-in concepts in logic, because they correspond to a specific perspective on our experience of the world. We can understand them in terms of the concepts of universal or individual names: \n\nA statement is strict or pure, if it does not use any individual name. So, a law of nature cannot refer to particular things. The sentence \"This apple is attracted by the planet earth\" is not a scientific statement. Popper wrote an entire section on strictly universal and strictly existential statements, because he considers the distinction between universal and individual concepts\nor names to be of fundamental importance.\n\nA statement is singular if it contains an individual name or the equivalent. So, a basic statement must make reference to a specific thing or specific location and time. The sentence \"There exists a black swan\" is not a basic statement, but the statement \"There is a black swan on the shore of the Swan River\" is a basic statement, it is a singular existential statement.\n\nPopper arrived at these conditions through an analysis of what one expects from basic statements. In addition, a basic statement must be inter-subjective. So, \"John saw a black swan on the shore of the Swan River\" is not a basic statement.\n\nFalsifiability is defined strictly in terms of the logical form of the theory, but this criterion of demarcation can not work without being complemented by methodological rules. Thus, contemporary philosophers consider that Popper's demarcation criterion has two parts: the logical part (stated in terms of rules of inference - ways to logically infer new statements from existing statements) and the methodological part (stated in terms of rules that do not claim to prove anything). The methodological rules define falsification. They should not be confused with the (logical) rules of inferences used to define falsifiability, which is about the logical form of the theory.\n\nIn this larger picture, the fact that a single basic statement can contradict a strictly universal statement, though true logically, is in itself useless, because it cannot lead to a falsification. To support falsification, Popper requires that a class of basic statements corroborate a falsifying hypothesis. A basic statement corroborates the falsifying hypothesis, if it does not logically contradict it, but contradicts the theory to be falsified. Though it corresponds to the empirical notion of reproducible experiments, this requirement exists entirely at the formal level and must be complemented by methodological rules in a falsification process.\n\nNaïve falsificationism is an unsuccessful attempt to prescribe a rationally unavoidable method for science. Sophisticated methodological falsification, on the other hand, is a prescription of a way in which scientists ought to behave as a matter of choice. The object of this is to arrive at an incremental process whereby theories become \"less bad\".\n\nNaïve falsification considers scientific statements individually. Scientific theories are formed from groups of these sorts of statements, and it is these groups that must be accepted or rejected by scientists. Scientific theories can always be defended by the addition of \"ad hoc\" hypotheses. As Popper put it, a \"decision\" is required on the part of the scientist to accept or reject the statements that go to make up a theory or that might falsify it. At some point, the weight of the \"ad hoc\" hypotheses and disregarded falsifying observations will become so great that it becomes unreasonable to support the base theory any longer, and a decision will be made to reject it.\n\nAlthough the logic of naïve falsification is valid, it is rather limited. Nearly any statement can be made to fit the data, so long as one makes the requisite 'compensatory adjustments'. Popper drew attention to these limitations in \"The Logic of Scientific Discovery\" in response to criticism from Pierre Duhem. W. V. Quine expounded this argument in detail, calling it confirmation holism. To logically falsify a universal, one must find a true falsifying singular statement. But Popper pointed out that it is always possible to \"change\" the universal statement or the existential statement so that falsification does not occur. On hearing that a black swan has been observed in Australia, one might introduce the \"ad hoc\" hypothesis, 'all swans are white except those found in Australia'; or one might adopt another, more cynical view about some observers, 'Australian bird watchers are incompetent'.\n\nThus, naïve falsification ought to, but does not, supply a way of handling competing hypotheses for many subject controversies (for instance conspiracy theories and urban legends). People arguing that there is no support for such an observation may argue that there is nothing to see, that all is normal, or that the differences or appearances are too small to be statistically significant. On the other side are those who concede that an observation has occurred and that a universal statement has been falsified as a consequence. Therefore, naïve falsification does not enable scientists, who rely on objective criteria, to present a definitive falsification of universal statements.\n\nIn place of naïve falsification, Popper envisioned science as progressing by the successive rejection of falsified theories, rather than falsified statements. Falsified theories are to be replaced by theories that can account for the phenomena that falsified the prior theory, that is, with greater explanatory power. For example, Aristotelian mechanics explained observations of everyday situations, but were falsified by Galileo's experiments, and were replaced by Newtonian mechanics, which accounted for the phenomena noted by Galileo (and others). Newtonian mechanics' reach included the observed motion of the planets and the mechanics of gases. The Youngian wave theory of light (i.e., waves carried by the luminiferous aether) replaced Newton's (and many of the Classical Greeks') particles of light but in turn was falsified by the Michelson-Morley experiment and was superseded by Maxwell's electrodynamics and Einstein's special relativity, which did account for the newly observed phenomena. Furthermore, Newtonian mechanics applied to the atomic scale was replaced with quantum mechanics, when the old theory could not provide an answer to the ultraviolet catastrophe, the Gibbs paradox, or how electron orbits could exist without the particles radiating away their energy and spiraling towards the centre. Thus the new theory had to posit the existence of unintuitive concepts such as energy levels, quanta and Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.\n\nAt each stage, experimental observation made a theory untenable (i.e., falsified it) and a new theory was found that had greater \"explanatory power\" (i.e., could account for the previously unexplained phenomena), and as a result, \"provided greater opportunity for its own falsification\".\n\nPopper uses falsification as a criterion of demarcation to draw a sharp line between those theories that are scientific and those that are unscientific. It is useful to know if a statement or theory is falsifiable, if for no other reason than that it provides us with an understanding of the ways in which one might assess the theory. One might at the least be saved from attempting to falsify a non-falsifiable theory, or come to see an unfalsifiable theory as unsupportable. Popper claimed that, if a theory is falsifiable, then it is scientific.\n\nThe Popperian criterion excludes from the domain of science not unfalsifiable \"statements\" but only \"whole theories\" that \"contain no\" falsifiable statements; thus it leaves us with the Duhemian problem of what constitutes a 'whole theory' as well as the problem of what makes a statement 'meaningful'. Popper's own falsificationism, thus, is not only an alternative to verificationism, it is also an acknowledgement of the conceptual distinction that previous theories had ignored.\n\nIn the philosophy of science, verificationism (also known as the verifiability theory of meaning) holds that a statement must, in principle, be empirically verifiable in order that it be both meaningful and scientific.\nThis was an essential feature of the logical positivism of the so-called Vienna Circle that included such philosophers as Moritz Schlick, Rudolf Carnap, Otto Neurath, the Berlin philosopher Hans Reichenbach, and the logical empiricism of A.J. Ayer. Popper noticed that the philosophers of the Vienna Circle had mixed two different problems, that of meaning and that of demarcation, and had proposed in verificationism a single solution to both. In opposition to this view, Popper emphasized that there are meaningful theories that are not scientific, and that, accordingly, a criterion of meaningfulness does not coincide with a criterion of demarcation.\n\nThus, Popper urged that verifiability be replaced with falsifiability as the criterion of demarcation. On the other hand, he strictly opposed the view that non-falsifiable statements are meaningless or otherwise inherently bad, and noted that falsificationism is only concerned with meaningful statements.\n\nFalsifiability has been used in the \"McLean v. Arkansas\" case (in 1982), the \"Daubert\" case (in 1993) and other cases (see below). A survey of 303 federal judges conducted in 1998 (and fully reported in ) revealed that \"[P]roblems with the nonfalsifiable nature of an expert’s underlying theory and difficulties with an unknown or too-large error rate were cited in less than 2% of cases.\"\n\nIn the ruling of the \"McLean v. Arkansas\" case, Judge William Overton used falsifiability as one of the criteria to determine that \"creation science\" was not scientific and should not be taught in Arkansas public schools as such (it can be taught as religion). In his testimony, philosopher Michael Ruse defined the characteristics which constitute science as (see and ):\nIn his conclusion related to this criterion Judge Overton stated that \n\nIn the \"Daubert\" case, the majority opinion proposed the so called five Daubert factors, which include falsifiability, to define a scientific methodology that is acceptable in courts of law. These original Daubert factors have been cited in the \"Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael\" case and in the \"U.S. v. PRIME\" case . In the Daubert case, Associate Justice Harry Blackmun, delivering the majority opinion of the United States Supreme Court, has cited Popper and other philosophers of science: \n\nIn a partially dissident opinion, Chief Justice William Rehnquist supported by Associate Justice John Paul Stevens, responded that: \n\nProfessor of Law David H. Kaye argued that references to the Daubert majority opinion confused falsifiability and falsification and that \"inquiring into the existence of meaningful attempts at falsification is an appropriate and crucial consideration in admissibility determinations.\"\n\nThere are combinations of prediction types and methodologies that, while each component is compatible with falsifiability on its own, renders falsification impossible together. One example is the combination of statistical predictions in which individual exceptions do not falsify the theory with different evidence standards for different data points in which one type of data point only require ordinary evidence while another require extraordinary evidence. On one hand, the theory that there are no black swans is falsifiable even if there is a requirement of extraordinary evidence for a black swan, since it is not impossible for an individual observation of a black swan to eventually meet the requirement of extraordinary evidence. On the other hand, in a country where there are in reality the same number of black swans as white swans, the theory that there are more white swans than black swans at a population level with individual exceptions is falsifiable as long as the level of evidence required to record a white swan is the same as that for recording black swans. But if the theory is that white swans are more statistically common than black swans with exceptions and a higher level of evidence is required for recording a black swan than for recording a white swan, the difference in evidence standards will cause more white swans than black swans to be recorded even in a country where the ratio is in fact 50/50. This makes the combination of statistical prediction with exceptions and differences in evidence standards incompatible with falsifiability. This have been implicated in the replication crisis, especially in psychology in which the two methodologies are more common than in other fields and therefore more often combine to prevent falsifiability even though the two factos are not unheard of on their own in other fields, as well as the problem being caused by active application of methodologies and therefore spreading the issues to other fields that psychology interacts with through interdisciplines such as evolutionary psychology spreading the problems to evolution research, and not allowing the other fields to help falsifiability in psychology as would have been possible had the problem been a passive lack of components for falsifiability.\n\nSeveral contemporary philosophers of science and analytic philosophers are strongly critical of Popper's philosophy of science. Popper's mistrust of inductive reasoning has led to claims that he misrepresents scientific practice.\n\nWhereas Popper was concerned in the main with the \"logic\" of science, Thomas Kuhn's influential book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" examined in detail the history of science. Kuhn argued that scientists work within a conceptual paradigm that strongly influences the way in which they see data. Scientists will go to great length to defend their paradigm against falsification, by the addition of \"ad hoc\" hypotheses to existing theories. Changing a 'paradigm' is difficult, as it requires an individual scientist to break with his or her peers and defend a heterodox theory.\n\nSome falsificationists saw Kuhn's work as a vindication, since it provided historical evidence that science progressed by rejecting inadequate theories, and that it is the \"decision\", on the part of the scientist, to accept or reject a theory that is the crucial element of falsificationism. Foremost amongst these was Imre Lakatos.\n\nLakatos attempted to explain Kuhn's work by arguing that science progresses by the falsification of \"research programs\" rather than the more specific universal statements of naïve falsification. In Lakatos' approach, a scientist works within a research program that corresponds roughly with Kuhn's 'paradigm'. Whereas Popper rejected the use of \"ad hoc\" hypotheses as unscientific, Lakatos accepted their place in the development of new theories.\n\nPaul Feyerabend examined the history of science with a more critical eye, and ultimately rejected any prescriptive methodology at all. He rejected Lakatos' argument for ad hoc hypothesis, arguing that science would not have progressed without making use of any and all available methods to support new theories. He rejected any reliance on a scientific method, along with any special authority for science that might derive from such a method. Rather, he claimed that if one is keen to have a universally valid methodological rule, epistemological anarchism or \"anything goes\" would be the only candidate. For Feyerabend, any special status that science might have derives from the social and physical value of the results of science rather than its method.\n\nIn their book \"Fashionable Nonsense\" (published in the UK as \"Intellectual Impostures\") the physicists Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont criticized falsifiability on the grounds that it does not accurately describe the way science really works. They argue that theories are used because of their successes, not because of the failures of other theories. Their discussion of Popper, falsifiability and the philosophy of science comes in a chapter entitled \"Intermezzo,\" which contains an attempt to make clear their own views of what constitutes truth, in contrast with the extreme epistemological relativism of postmodernism.\n\nSokal and Bricmont write, \"When a theory successfully withstands an attempt at falsification, a scientist will, quite naturally, consider the theory to be partially confirmed and will accord it a greater likelihood or a higher subjective probability. ... But Popper will have none of this: throughout his life he was a stubborn opponent of any idea of 'confirmation' of a theory, or even of its 'probability'. ... [but] the history of science teaches us that scientific theories come to be accepted above all because of their successes.\" (Sokal and Bricmont 1997, 62f)\n\nThey further argue that falsifiability cannot distinguish between astrology and astronomy, as both make technical predictions that are sometimes incorrect.\n\nDavid Miller, a contemporary philosopher of critical rationalism, has attempted to defend Popper against these claims. Miller argues that astrology does not lay itself open to falsification, while astronomy does, and this is the litmus test for science.\n\nKarl Popper argued that Marxism shifted from falsifiable to unfalsifiable.\n\nSome economists, such as those of the Austrian School, believe that macroeconomics is empirically unfalsifiable and that thus the only appropriate means to understand economic events is by logically studying the intentions of individual economic decision-makers, based on certain fundamental truths. Prominent figures within the Austrian School of economics, Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek were associates of Karl Popper's, with whom they co-founded the Mont Pelerin Society.\n\nNumerous examples of potential (indirect) ways to falsify common descent have been proposed by its proponents. J.B.S. Haldane, when asked what hypothetical evidence could disprove evolution, replied \"fossil rabbits in the Precambrian era\". Richard Dawkins adds that any other modern animal, such as a hippo, would suffice. Karl Popper at first spoke against the testability of natural selection but recanted, \"I have changed my mind about the testability and logical status of the theory of natural selection, and I am glad to have the opportunity to make a recantation.\"\n\nMuch of the criticism against young-Earth creationism is based on evidence in nature that the Earth is much older than adherents believe. Confronting such evidence, some adherents make an argument (called the Omphalos hypothesis) that the world was created with the appearance of age; e.g., the sudden appearance of a mature chicken capable of laying eggs. This hypothesis is non-falsifiable since no evidence about the age of the earth (or any astronomical feature) can be shown not to be fabricated during creation.\n\nTheories of history or politics that allegedly predict future events have a logical form that renders them neither falsifiable nor verifiable. They claim that for every historically significant event, there exists an historical or economic law that \"determines\" the way in which events proceeded. Failure to identify the law does not mean that it does not exist, yet an event that satisfies the law does not prove the general case. Evaluation of such claims is at best difficult. On this basis, Popper \"fundamentally criticized historicism in the sense of any preordained prediction of history\" and argued that neither Marxism nor psychoanalysis was science, although both made such claims. Again, this does not mean that any of these types of theories is necessarily \"incorrect\". Popper considered falsifiability a test of whether theories are scientific, not of whether propositions that they contain or support are true.\n\nLike all formal sciences, mathematics is not concerned with the validity of theories based on observations in the empirical world, but rather, mathematics is occupied with the theoretical, abstract study of such topics as quantity, structure, space and change. Methods of the mathematical sciences are, however, applied in constructing and testing scientific models dealing with observable reality. Albert Einstein wrote, \"One reason why mathematics enjoys special esteem, above all other sciences, is that its laws are absolutely certain and indisputable, while those of other sciences are to some extent debatable and in constant danger of being overthrown by newly discovered facts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51277005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51277005", "title": "Free Software Users Group, Thiruvananthapuram", "text": "Free Software Users Group, Thiruvananthapuram\n\nThe origins of the Free software community in Thiruvananthapuram can be traced back to the group of TeX users around the University of Kerala in early 1980s. The community then later named themselves Thiruvananthapuram LUG (Indian Linux Users Group), GNU/Linux Users Group, Thiruvananthapuram and then ultimately Free Software Users Group, Thiruvananthapuram. The community has worked with the government in helping with key Free software initiatives in the government and also in promoting and supporting Free software among the general public. The community has also been instrumental in creating an IT policy favorable to Free software in the state of Kerala.\n\nOne of the organized activities of the community was to organize GNU/Linux install fests in and around the city. These were usually organized in educational institutions or public places where the general public could bring their computers to get a GNU/Linux distribution installed on them. As GNU/Linux distributions became more and more easy to be installed and configured the community has stopped organizing these.\n\nThe group has also worked with SMC in organizing developer camps in Thiruvananthapuram and outside. During developer camps developers are given hands-on experience in working with Free software tools and primarily around localization initiatives which SMC is involved with.\n\nThe Free software community in Thiruvananthapuram has also been involved in organizing Software Freedom Day celebrations and Hardware Freedom Day celebrations in the city.\n\nThe community has also organized release parties to celebrate the release of the different Free software like Ubuntu, Firefox etc.\n\nOne of the first large-scale events organized by the community was a week long Free Software Install Fest at Technopark, Thiruvananthapuram organized in 2008. The event was co-organized by SPACE, Zyxware Technologies and Kerala State IT Mission\n\nThe community worked together with Zyxware Technologies to create India's first Freedom Toaster which is a kiosk which can vend Free software CDs and DVDs. The Freedom toaster was made available at Technopark and at different engineering colleges to make available its services to the public.\n\nThe Free Software Users Group, Thiruvananthapuram along with Free software communities across Kerala and Zyxware Technologies organized a 44-day peace walk called Freedom Walk in 2008. Three volunteers from the community walked from Kasargod to Thiruvananthapuram covering all 14 districts in the state on foot and conducted Free software events in schools and colleges to promote the message and philosophy of Free software.\n\nThe community has been jointly involved with organizing of the Free Software Free Society conferences conducted by the government of Kerala through ICFOSS and SPACE.\n\n"}
{"id": "974449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=974449", "title": "Gaianism", "text": "Gaianism\n\nGaianism is an earth-centered philosophical, holistic, scientifically non-religiously supported, and the spiritual opinion that shares expressions with various religions such as earth religions and paganism while not identifying exclusively with any specific one. The term describes a philosophy and ethical worldview which, though not necessarily religious, implies a transpersonal devotion to earth as a superorganism. Practitioners of Gaianism are called Gaians.\n\nMarcel Wissenburg has described Gaianism as a \"modern variant of philosophical determinism\". Gaianism has been associated with the New Age movement due to sharing similar viewpoints, but is not typically identified as strictly part of the New Age movement as a whole. Scientific support of belief comes from Gaia hypothesis and living systems theory. Supporting Gaia's homeostasis, ecological activism, with spiritual belief is compatible with deep ecology.\n\nFollowers of Gaianism state that the term is based both in the felt connection and scientific understanding of the biosphere, which is given the name Gaia. The namesake primordial deity from Greek mythology is the mother of all beings, both god and animal, born from her union with the sky (Uranus) and the sea (Pontus). Gaians believe that naming the biosphere Gaia helps encourage practitioners and others to see the living planet as an organism with an intrinsic personality that expresses itself through evolution.\n\nGaianism's philosophy stems from James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis, which proposes that organisms interact with their surroundings on earth to form a more complex and self-regulating system that contributes to maintaining the conditions for life on the planet. Gaia can be understood as a superorganism made of organisms, as multicellular life can be understood as a superorganism at a smaller level of scale.\n\nPractitioners of Gaianism are termed \"Gaians\", or sometimes \"Gaianists\". Followers typically approach the philosophy with the perspective that you should honor the earth, reduce or soften the human impact on the earth, and to be respectful of all life on earth. The latter perspective is extended to all forms of life such as plant, animal, or human, and followers will often try to maintain a close relationship with the planet in order to strive toward world peace, maintain global homeostasis and find inner fulfillment. Gaians will occasionally follow Gaianism along with other religions, but for many Gaianism is not necessarily religious.\n\n"}
{"id": "1094491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094491", "title": "Immaculate perception", "text": "Immaculate perception\n\nThe expression immaculate perception has been used in various senses by various philosophers.\n\n\nRapper 8Ball released a song in March 2012 titled \"immaculate perception\" featuring Waka Flocka Flame and Yelawolf.\n"}
{"id": "28894963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28894963", "title": "Ingolf U. Dalferth", "text": "Ingolf U. Dalferth\n\nIngolf Ulrich Dalferth (born 9 July 1948) is a philosopher of religion and theologian. His work is regarded as being on the methodological borderlines between analytic philosophy, hermeneutics and phenomenology, and he is a recognized expert in issues of contemporary philosophy, philosophy of religion, and philosophy of orientation.\n\nSince 2007 Dalferth has held the Danforth Chair in Philosophy of Religion at Claremont Graduate University. From 1998 to 2012 he served as the Director of the Institute of Hermeneutics and Philosophy of Religion at the University of Zürich. He is the chief editor of the journal Theologische Literaturzeitung (Leipzig, Germany), book series Philosophy of Religion and Theology (Tübingen, Germany), and book series Claremont Studies in Religion as well as editor of Hermeneutischen Untersuchungen zur Theologie (Tübingen, Germany)\n\nIngolf U. Dalferth studied theology, philosophy, and linguistics in Tübingen, Edinburgh, Vienna, and Cambridge. After receiving his doctorate and habilitation in theology at the University of Tübingen, he held various positions including director of studies at the Tübinger Stift, lecturer in Durham, and professor in Tübingen, Uppsala and Frankfurt a. M. From 1987 to 1989 he was Hulsean Lecturer at the University of Cambridge, 1995 the Samuel Ferguson Lecturer at Manchester University,in 2008 the Bapsybanoo Marchioness of Winchester Lecturer at the University of Oxford. From 1986-1988, 1996-1998 and 2004-2006 he was President of the European Society for the Philosophy of Religion. From 1999-2007 he was the founding President of the German Society for Philosophy of Religion. In 2015-2016 he was President of the Society for Philosophy of Religion in the USA. From 1981 to 1990 he was Lecturer and University Professor of Systematic Theology at the University of Tübingen, from 1990 to 1995 Professor of Protestant Theology (Dogmatics) and Philosophy of Religion at the University of Frankfurt, from 1995 to 2013 Professor of Systematic Theology, Symbolism and Philosophy of Religion at the University of Zürich. Since 2007 he has been the Danforth Professor of Philosophy of Religion at Claremont Graduate University. From 1991-1994 he served as the Dean of the Faculty of Protestant Theology at the University of Frankfurt, Germany, and from 1998 to 2002 as the Dean of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Zurich. From 2004 to 2009 he was Research Fellow at the Collegium Helveticum in Zurich, from 2005 to 2006 Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Berlin. In 2005 and 2006 he was awarded honorary doctorates from the Universities of Uppsala and Copenhagen. 2017-2018 he held the Leibniz-Chair at the University of Leipzig. In 2018 he was honored with a Festschrift: Das Letzte – der Erste. Gott denken. Festschrift für Ingolf U. Dalferth zum 70. Geburtstag. Ed. Hans-Peter Großhans, Michael Moxter, and Philipp Stoellger, Tübingen 2018. pp. XI, 504.\n\nThe primary research areas of Ingolf U. Dalferth include Christological, ecclesiological, and methodological issues in systematic theology, religion, philosophy (analytic philosophy of religion and phenomenology), semiotics and hermeneutics (theory of signs, language processes, forms of understanding), emotions, trust, evil and time, and ecumenism (Lutheranism and Anglicanism). His work also includes several functions within the Swiss and German churches and the ecumenical movement. From 1993 to 2004 he was co-chair of the Theological Board of the Meissen Commission. In 2004 he was Visiting Professor of Philosophy of Religion at the Center for Subjectivity Research in Copenhagen (Denmark); from 2004 to 2009 Director of the Research Group ›Religion and Emotion‹ at the Collegium Helveticum in Zurich; from 2005 to 2013 Co-Director of the University Research Priority Program on the Foundations of Human Social Behavior at the University of Zurich; from 2009 to 2013 Director of the Interdisciplinary Research Project „Understanding Trust“ at the University of Zurich; from 2013-2016 Director of the Interdisciplinary Research Project “Prayer as Embodied Understanding” at the University of Zurich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35469574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35469574", "title": "Isaak Revzin", "text": "Isaak Revzin\n\nIsaak Iosifovic Revzin (; 1923–1974) was a Russian linguist and semiotician associated with the Tartu–Moscow Semiotic School.\n\nIsaac Revzin was born in Istanbul. He worked at the Institute of Foreign Languages. A structural linguist, he proposed that linguistics be developed as a formal axiomatic theory. Despite the fact that he was a specialist in machine translation, he only saw a computer (and from a distance) once in his life. He also wrote in collaboration with his wife, Olga Revzina. He died in Moscow.\n\nHis son, Grigory Revzin, living in Moscow, is an art critic and a journalist.\n\n"}
{"id": "9721493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9721493", "title": "Jeanne Guillemin", "text": "Jeanne Guillemin\n\nJeanne Harley Guillemin (born 1943) is a medical anthropologist and author, who for 25 years was a Professor of Sociology at Boston College and for the last ten years, a senior fellow in the Security Studies Program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She is an authority on biological weapons and has published four books on the topic.\n\nWhile at Boston College, Guillemin did extensive research on hospital technology and medical ethics, receiving fellowships to work on the U.S. Senate Finance Committee staff and at the Hastings Center for the Study of Ethics. She was also co-head of the National Library of Medicine's HealthAware Project, a joint project with Harvard Medical School to test how the internet could be used to educate people about preventive health measures.\n\nIn 1986, Guillemin became interested in the misuse of biomedical science by government weapons programs. She involved herself in two of her husband's investigations of alleged violations of international arms control agreements by the Soviet Union which involved germ weapons. The first was the \"yellow rain\" accusation by the United States against the USSR, to the effect that the Soviets enabled the Laotian army to use deadly mycotoxins to attack Hmong refugees allied with the US during the Vietnam War. This accusation had been disputed by Meselson in 1983 when he argued that the yellow material was actually bee feces mistaken for a biological weapon by those under attack and by certain US government scientists. (The issue remains disputed and the US government has not withdrawn the allegations, arguing that the controversy has not been fully resolved.)\n\nIn 1992, Guillemin became part of Meselson's investigation into another Cold War controversy, the 1979 outbreak of anthrax in Sverdlovsk, a closed Soviet city in the Ural Mountains. The Soviet government claimed the cause was infected meat. Guillemin's interviews with the families of victims (64 people were recorded as dying) resulted in an epidemiological map showing the source to be an air-borne release of anthrax spores from a military facility where, in violation of the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention, the testing of anthrax weapons had been in process. In 1994, the results of this research were published in \"Science\" and in 1999 her book on this research was published (\"Anthrax: The Investigation of a Deadly Outbreak\", U of California Press).\n\nAfter 9/11, with the advent of the anthrax letter attacks, Guillemin was frequently asked by the media to explain the disease, based on her experience in Russia. In 2005 she published \"Biological Weapons: From State-sponsored Programs to Contemporary Bioterorism\", Columbia U Press) which offers a concise, comprehensive history of how anthrax and other microbes were developed as weapons over the course of the 20th century, resulting in potential bioterrorism. She turned her attention to the 2001 anthrax letter attacks after the 2008 suicide of the FBI's prime suspect, an anthrax scientist who worked for the U.S. Army at Fort Detrick, Maryland. Her third book on biological weapons is about the letters and their impact on victims and government organizations. It is called \"American Anthrax: Fear, Crime, and the Investigation of the Nation's Deadliest Bioterror Attack\", (Macmillan/Holt/Times, 2011).\n\n\n\"Guillemin wrote introductions to new editions of:\"\n\n\"Guillemin edited:\"\n"}
{"id": "16189565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16189565", "title": "Josho Pat Phelan", "text": "Josho Pat Phelan\n\nJosho Pat Phelan, Buddhist name Taitaku Josho, is a Sōtō Zen priest and current abbot of Chapel Hill Zen Center in Chapel Hill, North Carolina—she has served as abbot there since 2000. Before coming to Chapel Hill, she practiced for twenty years at Tassajara Zen Mountain Center and the San Francisco Zen Center (where she became practice leader and director). Phelan began leading the Chapel Hill Zen Center in 1991, when there were just eight members including herself. As of 2001, the center had forty-five members and provides meditation instruction for approximately one-hundred and fifty people every year. Ordained as a priest by Zentatsu Richard Baker in 1977, she began Zen practice in 1969 and has also trained under Sojun Mel Weitsman, Robert Baker Aitken and Tenshin Reb Anderson Additionally, Phelan is a member of the American Zen Teachers Association, and in 1995 she received shiho from Sojun Weitsman at Tassajara.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30419457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30419457", "title": "Leveling (philosophy)", "text": "Leveling (philosophy)\n\nLeveling is a social process in which the uniqueness of the individual is rendered non-existent by assigning equal value to all aspects of human endeavors, thus missing all the intricacies and subtle complexities of human identity. Leveling is highly associated with existential philosopher Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nFor Kierkegaard, leveling was the process of suppressing individuality to a point where the individual's uniqueness becomes non-existent and nothing meaningful in his existence can be affirmed:\n\nHowever, Kierkegaard's idea of leveling wasn't one of making life meaningless but of making life equal because every single individual has equal access to the grace and gifts of God. He wasn't concerned with earthly and material goods.\n\nGerman philosopher Martin Heidegger wrote of leveling: \"by averageness and leveling down, everything gets obscured, and what has thus been covered up gets passed off as something familiar and accessible to everyone. ...by virtue of an insensitivity to all distinctions in level and genuineness, and in providing average intelligibility, opens up a standard world in which all distinctions between the unique and the general, the superior and the average, the important and the trivial have been leveled\".\n\nHeidegger's view of important things becoming mundane and non-specific points towards Nietzsche's concept of master–slave morality, in which the weak and disenfranchised reframe the positive traits of the strong and powerful as not worth pursuing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1920169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920169", "title": "Love song", "text": "Love song\n\nA love song is a song about romantic love, falling in love, heartbreak after a breakup, and the feelings that these experiences bring. A comprehensive list of even the best known performers and composers of love songs would be a large order.\n\nLove songs can be found in a variety of different music genres.\n\nLove songs have been around for centuries and can be found in the histories and cultures of most societies, though their ubiquity is a modern phenomenon.\n\nA highly controversial and startling explanation of the genesis of love songs can be found in Denis de Rougemont's \"Love in the Western World\". De Rougemont's thesis is that love songs grew out of the courtly love songs of the troubadours, and that those songs represented a rejection of the historical Christian notion of love.\n\nIdentities of love songs change from time to time, from the decade of love in the '70s, through night partying in the '80s, and into dark romance of the '90s. Love songs did not have an identity in the 2000s.\n\n"}
{"id": "27129307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27129307", "title": "Martin Hägglund", "text": "Martin Hägglund\n\nMartin Hägglund (born 23 November 1976) is a Swedish philosopher, literary theorist, and scholar of modernist literature. He is Professor of Comparative Literature and Humanities at Yale University. He is also a member of the Harvard Society of Fellows, serving as a Junior Fellow from 2009 to 2012. Hägglund is the author of \"Dying for Time: Proust, Woolf, Nabokov\" (2012), \"Radical Atheism: Derrida and the Time of Life\" (2008), and \"Kronofobi: Essäer om tid och ändlighet\" (\"Chronophobia: Essays on Time and Finitude\", 2002).\n\n\"Radical Atheism\" is a major intervention in deconstruction, offering a novel account of Jacques Derrida's thinking of time and space, life and death, good and evil, self and other. Against the prevalent notion that there was an ethical or religious “turn” in Derrida's thinking, Hägglund argues that a radical atheism informs his work from beginning to end. Atheism has traditionally limited itself to denying the existence of God and immortality, without questioning the desire for God and immortality. In contrast, radical atheism seeks to demonstrate that the desire for a timeless eternity (immortality) dissimulates a desire to live on in time (survival). Rather than being dependent on a transcendent ideal, all our commitments presuppose an investment in and care for finite life. Developing a deconstructive account of time, Hägglund shows how Derrida rethinks the constitution of identity, the violence of ethics, the desire of religion, and political emancipation in accordance with the condition of temporal finitude.\n\n\"Dying for Time\" offers new readings of the problem of temporality in the writings of Marcel Proust, Virginia Woolf, and Vladimir Nabokov. Through an engagement with Sigmund Freud and Jacques Lacan, Hägglund also develops an original theory of the relation between time and desire (\"chronolibido\"), addressing mourning and melancholia, pleasure and pain, attachment and loss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9273782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9273782", "title": "Monad (philosophy)", "text": "Monad (philosophy)\n\nMonad (from Greek μονάς \"monas\", \"singularity\" in turn from μόνος \"monos\", \"alone\"), refers in cosmogony to the Supreme Being, divinity, or the totality of all things. The concept was reportedly conceived by the Pythagoreans and may refer variously to a single source acting alone, or to an indivisible origin, or to both. The concept was later adopted by other philosophers, such as Leibniz, who referred to the monad as an elementary particle. It had a geometric counterpart, which was debated and discussed contemporaneously by the same groups of people.\n\nAccording to Hippolytus, the worldview was inspired by the Pythagoreans, who called the first thing that came into existence the \"monad\", which begat (bore) the dyad (from the Greek word for two), which begat the numbers, which begat the point, begetting lines or , etc. It meant divinity, the first being, or the totality of all beings, referring in cosmogony (creation theories) variously to source acting alone and/or an indivisible origin and equivalent comparators.\n\nPythagorean and Platonic philosophers like Plotinus and Porphyry condemned Gnosticism (see Neoplatonism and Gnosticism) for their treatment of the monad.\n\nFor the Pythagoreans, the generation of number series was related to objects of geometry as well as cosmogony. According to Diogenes Laertius, from the monad evolved the dyad; from it numbers; from numbers, points; then lines, two-dimensional entities, three-dimensional entities, bodies, culminating in the four elements earth, water, fire and air, from which the rest of our world is built up.\n\nThe term monad was later adopted from Greek philosophy by Giordano Bruno, Leibniz (Monadology), John Dee, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "474299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474299", "title": "Moral hierarchy", "text": "Moral hierarchy\n\nA moral hierarchy is a hierarchy by which actions are ranked by their morality, with respect to a moral code. \n\nIt also refers to a relationship – such as teacher/pupil or guru/disciple – in which one party is taken to have greater moral awareness than the other; or to the beneficial hierarchy of parent/child or doctor/patient.\n\nKohlberg's stages of moral development have been read as creating a hierarchy of increasing moral complexity, ranging from the premoral at the bottom, through the midrange of conventionalism, up to the apex of self-selected morality.\n\nIn similar fashion, Robin Skynner viewed moral ideas (such as the 'myths' of Charis Katakis) as being interpretable at different levels, depending on the degree of mental health attained; while Eric Berne saw the three ego states of Parent/Adult/Child as falling naturally into a moral hierarchy universally respected in both time and place.\n\nDante's universe was structured in a hierarchy of moral sins and moral virtues, the stratified circles of Hell reaching down for example from the self-indulgent sins at the higher levels, to those of violence below, and the fraudulent at the bottom.\n\nThe Confucian concept of a moral hierarchy traditionally served as a check on arbitrary power in China.\n\nArguably at least, the concept of a moral hierarchy still influences China's view of its place in the world today.\n\nCritics charge that the notion of a moral hierarchy is untenable in cases spanning multiple cultures, because moral codes are not equal but different, and therefore there is no way of showing that certain codes are superior to others.\n\nProponents of Kohlberg argue against such a relativistic view of morality, however, by pointing to cross-cultural evidence from more than 30 societies supporting the concept of a hierarchy of levels of moral complexity.\n"}
{"id": "3194945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3194945", "title": "Mysterium Cosmographicum", "text": "Mysterium Cosmographicum\n\nMysterium Cosmographicum (lit. The Cosmographic Mystery, alternately translated as Cosmic Mystery, The Secret of the World, or some variation) is an astronomy book by the German astronomer Johannes Kepler, published at Tübingen in 1596 and in a second edition in 1621. The full title being Forerunner of the Cosmological Essays, Which Contains the Secret of the Universe; on the Marvelous Proportion of the Celestial Spheres, and on the True and Particular Causes of the Number, Magnitude, and Periodic Motions of the Heavens; Established by Means of the Five Regular Geometric Solids (Latin: \"Prodromus dissertationum cosmographicarum, continens mysterium cosmographicum, de admirabili proportione orbium coelestium, de que causis coelorum numeri, magnitudinis, motuumque periodicorum genuinis & proprijs, demonstratum, per quinque regularia corpora geometrica\"). Kepler proposed that the distance relationships between the six planets known at that time could be understood in terms of the five Platonic solids, enclosed within a sphere that represented the orbit of Saturn.\n\nThis book explains Kepler's cosmological theory, based on the Copernican system, in which the five Pythagorean regular polyhedra dictate the structure of the universe and reflect God's plan through geometry. This was the first attempt since Copernicus to say that the theory of heliocentrism is physically true. According to Kepler's account from this text, the ratio was brought to his attention accidentally while demonstrating the calculation of the ratio between a circle and a circle created by a rotated inscribed circle. From this he realized that he had stumbled on the same ratio between the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter. He wrote, \"I believe it was by divine ordinance that I obtained by chance that which previously I could not reach by any pains.\" But after doing further calculations he realized he could not use the two-dimensional polygons to represent all the planets, but instead he had to use the five Platonic solids.\n\nJohannes Kepler's first major astronomical work, \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" (\"The Cosmographic Mystery\"), was the first published defence of the Copernican system. Kepler claimed to have had an epiphany on July 19, 1595, while teaching in Graz, demonstrating the periodic conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter in the zodiac: he realized that regular polygons bound one inscribed and one circumscribed circle at definite ratios, which, he reasoned, might be the geometrical basis of the universe. After failing to find a unique arrangement of polygons that fit known astronomical observations (even with extra planets added to the system), Kepler began experimenting with 3-dimensional polyhedra. He found that each of the five Platonic solids could be uniquely inscribed and circumscribed by spherical orbs; nesting these solids, each encased in a sphere, within one another would produce six layers, corresponding to the six known planets—Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. By ordering the solids correctly—octahedron, icosahedron, dodecahedron, tetrahedron, cube—Kepler found that the spheres could be placed at intervals corresponding (within the accuracy limits of available astronomical observations) to the relative sizes of each planet’s path, assuming the planets circle the Sun. Kepler also found a formula relating the size of each planet’s orb to the length of its orbital period: from inner to outer planets, the ratio of increase in orbital period is twice the difference in orb radius. However, Kepler later rejected this formula, because it was not precise enough.\n\nAs he indicated in the title, Kepler thought he had revealed God’s geometrical plan for the universe. Much of Kepler’s enthusiasm for the Copernican system stemmed from his theological convictions about the connection between the physical and the spiritual; the universe itself was an image of God, with the Sun corresponding to the Father, the stellar sphere to the Son, and the intervening space between to the Holy Spirit. His first manuscript of \"Mysterium\" contained an extensive chapter reconciling heliocentrism with biblical passages that seemed to support geocentrism.\n\nWith the support of his mentor Michael Maestlin, Kepler received permission from the Tübingen university senate to publish his manuscript, pending removal of the Bible exegesis and the addition of a simpler, more understandable description of the Copernican system as well as Kepler’s new ideas. \"Mysterium\" was published late in 1596, and Kepler received his copies and began sending them to prominent astronomers and patrons early in 1597; it was not widely read, but it established Kepler’s reputation as a highly skilled astronomer. The effusive dedication, to powerful patrons as well as to the men who controlled his position in Graz, also provided a crucial doorway into the patronage system.\n\nThough the details would be modified in light of his later work, Kepler never relinquished the Platonist polyhedral-spherist cosmology of \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". His subsequent main astronomical works were in some sense only further developments of it, concerned with finding more precise inner and outer dimensions for the spheres by calculating the eccentricities of the planetary orbits within it. In 1621, Kepler published an expanded second edition of \"Mysterium\", half as long again as the first, detailing in footnotes the corrections and improvements he had achieved in the 25 years since its first publication.\n\nMany of Kepler's thoughts about epistemology can be found in his \"Defense of Tycho against Ursus\" or \"Contra Ursum\" (CU), a work which emerged from a polemical framework, the plagiarism conflict between Nicolaus Raimarus Ursus (1551–1600) and Tycho Brahe: causality and physicalization of astronomical theories, the concept and status of astronomical hypotheses, the polemic “realism-instrumentalism”, his criticism of scepticism in general, the epistemological role of history, etc. Jardine has pointed out that it would be sounder to read Kepler's CU more as a work against scepticism than in the context of the modern realism/instrumentalism debate.\n\nOn the one hand, “causality” is a notion implying the most general idea of “actual scientific knowledge” which guides and stimulates each investigation. In this sense, Kepler already embarked in his MC on a causal investigation by asking for the cause of the number, the sizes and the “motions” (= the speeds) of the heavenly spheres. On the other hand, “causality” implies in Kepler, according to the Aristotelian conception of physical science, the concrete “physical cause”, the efficient cause which produces a motion or is responsible for keeping the body in motion. Original to Kepler, however, and typical of his approach is the resoluteness with which he was convinced that the problem of equipollence of the astronomical hypotheses can be resolved and the consequent introduction of the concept of causality into astronomy – traditionally a mathematical science. This approach is already present in his MC, where he, for instance, relates for the first time the distances of the planets to a power which emerges from the Sun and decreases in proportion to the distance of each planet, up to the sphere of the fixed stars (see Stephenson 1987, pp. 9–10).\n\nIn response to \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\", the Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe said the ideas were intriguing but could only be verified through the observations Brahe himself had been making over the past 30 years. Because he was promised use of these observations by Brahe, Kepler sought him out in the beginning of 1600. Brahe, however, only gave him the data on Mars.\n\nThe \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" was featured on the Austrian 10 euro Johannes Kepler silver commemorative coin minted in 2002. In February 2018, the Curiosity Box by Vsauce released a T-Shirt and postcard with simplified illustrations of Kepler's Platonic solid model of the Solar system on them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12200260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12200260", "title": "Nguyễn Thuyên", "text": "Nguyễn Thuyên\n\nNguyễn Thuyên or Hàn Thuyên (dates of birth and death unknown) was a 13th-century Vietnamese official and writer. According to \"Đại Việt sử ký toàn thư\", in 1282, he composed a piece of writing, throwing it into the Red River to chase away a crocodile, similar to what the Tang Dynasty official and writer Han Yu once did. As a result, Emperor Trần Nhân Tông gave him the surname Hàn. He is known as the first one to compose Vietnamese poems in chữ Nôm, although his works did not survive. Following the Chinese model, he divided the six tones of Vietnamese into \"flat\" (平) and \"sharp\" (仄), and used this distinction as the metrical foundation of his poems. The poets after him followed this practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "36134925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36134925", "title": "Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist", "text": "Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\n\nNietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist (1950; second edition 1956; third edition 1968; fourth edition 1974; fifth edition 2013) is a book about the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche by the philosopher Walter Kaufmann. The book, first published by Princeton University Press, was influential and is considered a classic study. Kaufmann has been credited with helping to transform Nietzsche's reputation after World War II by dissociating him from Nazism, and making it possible for Nietzsche to be taken seriously as a philosopher. However, he has been criticized for presenting Nietzsche as an existentialist, and for other details of his interpretation.\n\nKaufmann writes that he \"aims at a comprehensive reconstruction of Nietzsche's thought\". He attempts to discredit a \"Nietzsche legend\" consisting of a variety of false beliefs about Nietzsche, such as the idea that he was a \"proto-Nazi\". He argues that Nietzsche's sister Elisabeth Förster-Nietzsche and the poet Stefan George are among those responsible for the legend, and that the rise of Nazism helped spread misconceptions about Nietzsche. He compares Nietzsche's ideas to those of existentialism, and discusses views of Nietzsche held by the philosophers Martin Heidegger and Karl Jaspers.\n\nWriting in a 1974 appendix, Kaufmann criticizes the philosopher Jürgen Habermas for poor scholarship in his treatment of Nietzsche in his book \"Knowledge and Human Interests\" (1968), noting that Habermas relied on the inadequate edition of Nietzsche's works prepared by Karl Schlechta. In a footnote, Kaufmann claims to have received a confession from minor author David George Plotkin that he had ghostwritten \"My Sister and I\", which was published under Nietzsche's name in 1951.\n\n\"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" was first published by Princeton University Press in 1950. A second edition was published in 1956, a third edition in 1968, and a fourth edition, which was the first paperback printing, in 1974. In 2013 an edition with a new foreword by the philosopher Alexander Nehamas was published.\n\n\"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" was reviewed by Chris Terry in \"Times Higher Education\". The book was also discussed by the philosopher Richard Rorty in \"The New Republic\".\n\nRorty described the book as \"path-breaking\", but wrote that it had been superseded by the philosopher Richard Schacht's \"Nietzsche\" (1983), which in Rorty's view was more comprehensive, better organized and more helpful to readers who were new to Nietzsche and needed help in understanding the apparent contradictions in Nietzsche's views.\n\n\"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" received positive reviews from Walter Watson in \"Ethics\" and the philosopher Frederick Copleston in \"Philosophy\". In \"Philosophy and Phenomenological Research\", it received positive reviews from Walter Cerf and the anthropologist H. James Birx, and in \"The Review of Metaphysics\" it was reviewed by F. D. J. and O. H. S. The book was also reviewed by the historian of ideas Crane Brinton in \"The Germanic Review\", William A. Mueller in \"Review & Expositor\", and Ernst Koch in \"The Modern Language Journal\". Later discussions include those by the intellectual historian Jennifer Ratner-Rosenhagen in \"Modern Intellectual History\", Axel Pérez Trujillo in \"Estudios Nietzsche: Revista de la Sociedad Española de Estudios sobre Friedrich Nietzsche\", and Mark Alfano in the \"British Journal for the History of Philosophy\". In \"The Journal of Nietzsche Studies\", the book received discussions from David Pickus, Schacht, and the philosopher Robert B. Pippin.\n\nWatson considered the book one of the most important works on Nietzsche, crediting Kaufmann with thoroughly developing an \"interpretation of Nietzsche's philosophy sharply at variance with the usual ones.\" He suggested that Kaufmann's suggestion that Socrates was \"Nietzsche's idol\" to be perhaps his most \"startling thesis\". Copleston described the book as \"a most thoughtful, fair and scholarly treatment of Nietzsche's philosophy\", welcoming the fact that it was free from both prejudice against and \"sickening adulation\" of Nietzsche. He praised Kaufmann for interpreting Nietzsche's statements in terms of both their context and the general development of Nietzsche's thought. However, he suggested that Kaufmann \"plays down too much certain aspects of Nietzsche's thought\". Cerf described the book as brilliant, and wrote that it caused him to re-examine the generally accepted ideas about Nietzsche he formerly held. He credited Kaufmann with exposing numerous false characterizations of Nietzsche and his views, and saw great merit in Kaufmann's discussion of Nietzsche's relation to other writers and thinkers. However, he questioned Kaufmann's understanding of the will to power, and suggested that Kaufmann overstated the extent to which the prevailing view of Nietzsche was false. Birx described the book as a \"classic work\", and credited Kaufmann with clearly presenting Nietzsche's life and thought, and carefully interpreting his ideas. Writing in 1977, he commented that it remained an \"outstanding and indispensable contribution to Nietzschean scholarship.\"\n\nRatner-Rosenhagen described the book as a \"monumental study\". She credited Kaufmann with transforming the interpretation of Nietzsche in the postwar United States and establishing him as \"a canonical thinker in the Western tradition\". She wrote that the book made Kaufmann himself a \"dominant figure in transatlantic Nietzsche studies from 1950 until his death in 1980\", and that while Kaufmann has been typically credited by philosophers and historians with saving Nietzsche's reputation by disassociating him from Nazism, they argue that he did so by \"denaturing Nietzsche's philosophy of power and narrowly transforming him into an existentialist.\" In her view, Kaufmann \"took a much more dramatic step by extending the scope of Nietzsche's philosophy, demonstrating how his ideas resonated with but also transcended the dominant philosophies of the day.\"\n\nAlfano wrote that Kaufmann popularized the idea that Nietzsche was a virtue theorist in ethics. He maintained that Kaufmann was mistaken to argue that Nietzsche's concept of the overman is related to the Aristotelian conception of \"megalopsychia\" or \"great-souled man\", following Bernd Magnus's view that there is only a \"superficial connection\" between the two. Pickus argued that the book should be understood in relation to Jaspers's \"Nietzsche: An Introduction to the Understanding of His Philosophical Activity\" (1935), arguing that despite some differences, such as their views of the meaning of nihilism, they had much in common. He credited Kaufmann with helping make it possible to \"identify irresponsible examples of Nietzsche scholarship\" and initiating \"a key debate about the possibility of using Nietzsche for moral “transfiguration,” particularly in historical, social, and artistic realms.\" Schacht commented that the book was \"enormously influential\", but that it was oriented to \"strategic considerations, relating to Nietzsche’s rehabilitation in the English-speaking world\", and presented Nietzsche as an existentialist. He credited Kaufmann with correctly emphasizing that Nietzsche was a philosopher, in opposition to a once prevailing view that Nietzsche did not deserve to be so considered. He also considered Kaufmann's characterization of Nietzsche as a psychologist apt. However, he questioned Kaufmann's characterization of Nietzsche as an \"Antichrist\", writing that it reflected Kaufmann's personal loathing of Christianity. Pippin wrote that despite the \"relative success\" of the book, \"the reception of Nietzsche in the Anglo-American philosophical community was still in its initial, hesitant stages\" even as late as 1985.\n\nThe sociologist Philip Rieff called \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" the best book in English on Nietzsche in \"\" (1959). Schacht called \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" important and useful in \"Nietzsche\" (1983). Kaufmann maintained in the fourth edition of \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" (1974) that he had succeeded in dissociating Nietzsche from Nazism and showing that Nietzsche was a great philosopher. The historian Peter Gay called \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" \"epoch making\" in the second volume of \"The Bourgeois Experience Victoria to Freud\" (1986). He credited Kaufmann with \"correcting horrendous misreadings and pillorying appalling mistranslations\", but noted that Kaufmann's conclusions have themselves been subjected to criticism and correction by later scholarship. The historian Roy Porter described \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" as \"authoritative\" in \"A Social History of Madness\" (1987).\n\nMichael Tanner called \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" an \"ill-organized transformation of Nietzsche into a liberal humanist\" in \"Nietzsche\" (1994). However, he acknowledged that the book \"had its place in the history of Nietzsche reception\". Schacht described \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" as a classic study through which many English-speaking readers became interested in and acquainted with Nietzsche after World War II in his 1996 introduction to Nietzsche's \"Human, All Too Human\" (1878). He wrote that it had little competition for nearly two decades and credited Kaufmann with offering \"a readable interpretation of Nietzsche's thought along humanistic existentialist and pragmatist lines\". However, he criticized Kaufmann's treatment of \"Human, All Too Human\", \"Daybreak\" (1881), and \"The Gay Science\" (1887), maintaining that Kaufmann incorrectly saw them as part of a period in Nietzsche's thought that was of little intrinsic interest.\n\nNehamas described \"Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist\" as a major turning point in Nietzsche's posthumous reputation in an introduction to its 2013 edition. He credited Kaufmann with reversing the popular image of Nietzsche as a totalitarian anti-semite, making it possible for philosophers to take Nietzsche seriously, and ensuring that Nietzsche's works have a prominent place in the philosophy sections of modern bookstores. He observed that Kaufmann's view that Nietzsche was an heir to rationalism rather than a Romantic critic of the Enlightenment is the most controversial element of his interpretation. He concluded that there is some truth to the charge that Kaufmann, in trying to reverse the \"legend\" surrounding Nietzsche, went too far in the opposite direction, over-emphasizing the more acceptable aspects of Nietzsche and minimizing the problematic or disturbing aspects, but that this does not detract from Kaufmann's accomplishment. In his view, Kaufmann's selective reinterpretation of Nietzsche may have been necessary to make it possible for Nietzsche to be read seriously by both philosophers and the general public, and his book repays careful study.\n\n"}
{"id": "19474607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19474607", "title": "Noble Silence", "text": "Noble Silence\n\nNoble Silence is a term attributed to the Buddha Gautama, for his reported responses to certain questions about reality. One such instance is when he was asked the fourteen unanswerable questions. In similar situations he often responded to antinomy-based descriptions of reality by saying that both antithetical options presented to him were inappropriate. \n\nThis does not indicate misology or disdain for philosophy on the Buddha's part. Rather, it indicates that he viewed these questions as not leading to true knowledge. Dependent origination is one of the Buddha's great contributions to philosophy, and provides a framework for analysis of reality that is not based on metaphysical assumptions regarding existence or non-existence, but instead on direct cognition of phenomena as they are presented to the mind. This informs and supports the Buddhist approach to liberation via ethical and meditative training known as the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nWhile silence is generally thought to be something observable on the outside of a person, an external state, whether they are talking, in the Pali Canon noble is an internal state which is synonymous with jhana.\n\n\"But what is noble silence?' Then the thought occurred to me, 'There is the case where a monk, with the stilling of directed thoughts & evaluations, [1] enters & remains in the second jhāna: rapture & pleasure born of concentration, unification of awareness free from directed thought & evaluation — internal assurance. This is called noble silence.'\"\n\nOf the eight jhanas, in the second jhana is when the inner dialog goes silent during meditation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9010294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9010294", "title": "Of Miracles", "text": "Of Miracles\n\n\"Of Miracles\" is the title of Section X of David Hume's \"An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding\" (1748).\n\nIn the 19th-century edition of Hume's \"Enquiry\" (in Sir John Lubbock's series, \"One Hundred Books\"), sections X and XI were omitted, appearing in an Appendix with the misleading explanation that they were normally left out of popular editions. Although the two sections appear in the full text in modern editions, chapter X has also been published separately, both as a separate book and in collections.\n\nIn Hume's December 1737 letter to Henry Home, in addition to describing how he went about \"castrating\" his \"Treatise\" so as to \"give as little offence\" to the religious, he had considered publishing the argument against miracles—as well as other anti-theistic arguments—as part of the \"Treatise\", but decided against it so as to not offend the religious sensibilities of readers.\n\nHume starts by telling the reader that he believes that he has \"discovered an argument [...] which, if just, will, with the wise and learned, be an everlasting check to all kinds of superstitious delusion\".\n\nHume first explains the principle of evidence: the only way that we can judge between two empirical claims is by weighing the evidence. The degree to which we believe one claim over another is proportional to the degree by which the evidence for one outweighs the evidence for the other. The weight of evidence is a function of such factors as the reliability, manner, and number of witnesses.\n\nNow, a miracle is defined as: \"a transgression of a law of nature by a particular volition of the Deity, or by the interposition of some invisible agent.\" Laws of nature, however, are established by \"a firm and unalterable experience\"; they rest upon the exceptionless testimony of countless people in different places and times.\n\nNothing is esteemed a miracle, if it ever happen in the common course of nature. It is no miracle that a man, seemingly in good health, should die on a sudden: because such a kind of death, though more unusual than any other, has yet been frequently observed to happen. But it is a miracle, that a dead man should come to life; because that has never been observed in any age or country.\n\nAs the evidence for a miracle is always limited, as miracles are single events, occurring at particular times and places, the evidence for the miracle will always be outweighed by the evidence against – the evidence for the law of which the miracle is supposed to be a transgression.\n\nThere are, however, two ways in which this argument might be neutralised. First, if the number of witnesses of the miracle be greater than the number of witnesses of the operation of the law, and secondly, if a witness be 100% reliable (for then no amount of contrary testimony will be enough to outweigh that person's account). Hume therefore lays out, in the second part of section X, a number of reasons that we have for never holding this condition to have been met. He first claims that no miracle has in fact had enough witnesses of sufficient honesty, intelligence, and education. He goes on to list the ways in which human beings lack complete reliability:\n\nHume ends with an argument that is relevant to what has gone before, but which introduces a new theme: the argument from miracles. He points out that many different religions have their own miracle stories. Given that there is no reason to accept some of them but not others (aside from a prejudice in favour of one religion), then we must hold all religions to have been proved true – but given the fact that religions contradict each other, this cannot be the case.\n\nR. F. Holland has argued that Hume's definition of \"miracle\" need not be accepted, and that an event need not violate a natural law in order to be accounted miraculous.\nIt has been argued by critics such as the Presbyterian minister George Campbell, that Hume's argument is circular. That is, he rests his case against belief in miracles upon the claim that laws of nature are supported by exceptionless testimony, but testimony can only be accounted exceptionless if we discount the occurrence of miracles. The philosopher John Earman has recently argued that Hume's argument is \"largely unoriginal and chiefly without merit where it is original\", citing Hume's lack of understanding of the probability calculus as a major source of error. J. P. Moreland and William Lane Craig agree with Earman's basic assessment and have critiqued Hume's argument against being able to identify miracles by stating that Hume's theory \"fails to take into account all the probabilities involved\" and \"he incorrectly assumes that miracles are intrinsically highly improbable\" \n\nC. S. Lewis, in his book \"Miracles: A Preliminary Study\", argues that Hume begins by begging the question. He says that his initial proposition - that laws of nature cannot be broken - is effectively the same question as 'Do miracles occur?'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54883497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54883497", "title": "Pargo Kaling", "text": "Pargo Kaling\n\nThe Pargo Kaling () was a large chorten straddling across the road leading from Drepung between the Potala's Red Hill (Marpori) and the Iron Hill (Chagpori) at Lhasa, Tibet, and containing a through-passage or archway for people and animals. It formed the \"Western Gate\" of the city and led into the village of Shol. It was destroyed in 1967 but the Lhasa authorities had it rebuilt in 1995. \n\nAs shown by photographs taken in 1904 and 1938, the Pargo Kaling chorten was one of three chortens: a second one was perched on the low ridge of Marpori and a third one stood on the low ridge of Chagpori. From the top of the middle chorten, wires furnished with small bells were stretched to the top of the two smaller chortens.\n\nThe Tibetan name of the Western Gate has several variants besides Pargo Kaling: Pawogaling (Peter Aufschnaiter), Drakgo Kaling (André Alexander), Barkokani or Bakokani (G. Ts. Tsybikoff), and Bar chorten (also G. Ts. Tsybikoff).\n\nThe oldest known representation of the Pargo Kaling Gate is found on a map of the city of Lhasa drawn by Nikita Bichurin in the first half of the 19th century. In the left lower corner, the larger centre chorten with its through-passage can be seen in between the two smaller side chortens.\n\nThe Western Gate was the scene of the entrance of the British Army's invasion force to Lhasa on August 4th, 1904. Preceded by the Chinese Imperial commissioner's escort., Younghusband's soldiers entered the city through the arch in the Pargo Kaling chorten\n\nThe Pargo Kaling chorten was also depicted in a scene of the 1997 movie \"Seven Years in Tibet\", which was the adaptation of the \"book of that title\" by Heinrich Harrer. The cover art of the original motion picture soundtrack shows actor Brad Pitt and the young 14th Dalai Lama with the chorten in the background.\n\nThe English version of Peter Aufschnaiter's memoirs \"Eight Years in Tibet\", published in 2002, includes a photo of the chorten with the caption \"Pawogaling, the Western Stupa below the Potala.\"\n\nA photo of the famous landmark is on the cover of Kamal Ratna Tuladhar's book, \"Caravan to Lhasa\", published in 2004, about the story of Nepalese Newar traders in Tibet from the 1920s to the 1960s.\n\nIn the 1980s, the lost Western Gate inspired a song sung by Tibetan singer Dadon. The lyrics of the first verse and the chorus go like this: \n\n\"In front of the Potala Palace / There were three beloved stupas / Whenever the wind stirred the chimes / What resounding music there was / How melodious it sounded.\"<br>\n\n\"Aah stupa Drago Kaling / Aah, in my mind I suddenly remember / In the depth of my heart I suddenly remember you.\"\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "32124452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32124452", "title": "Passion: An Essay on Personality", "text": "Passion: An Essay on Personality\n\nPassion: An Essay on Personality is a philosophical inquiry into human nature by philosopher and politician Roberto Mangabeira Unger. The book explores the individual and his relation to society, asking how one comes to an understanding of self and others. Unger here sees the root human predicament as the need to establish oneself as a unique individual in the world but at the same time to find commonality and solidarity with others. This exploration is grounded in what Unger calls a modernist image of the human being as one who lives in context but is not bound by context.\n\nUnger’s aim is twofold. First, to level a critique, expansion, and defense of modern thinking about the human and society “so that this practice can better withstand the criticisms that philosophy since Hume and Kant has leveled against it.” And second, to develop a prescriptive theory of human identity centered on what Unger calls the passions—our raw responses to the world that are ambivalent towards reasons but also act in the service of reason. He outlines nine passions that organize and are organized by our dealings with others: lust, despair, hatred, vanity, jealousy, envy, faith, hope, and love. While these emotional states may be seen as raw emotion, their expression is always conditioned by the context within which the individual mobilizes or learns to mobilize them.\n\nThe book was critically hailed as successfully grappling with some of the most fundamental and enduring problems of human existence. It has been put into direct dialogue with Kant's moral law, and said to have provided one answer to Hume's Guillotine. Unger's analysis and the program he builds around this revolutionary understanding has also inspired new thinking and approaches to psychiatry.\n\nEntering into a long philosophical tradition of inquiry into human nature, Unger begins by categorically rejecting the idea of a natural order to the world or a natural state of human organization. For Unger, there are no natural laws. Rather, he takes to the hilt the modernist thesis that we are shaped by context but not bound by context. As such, we have the power to work both within and beyond any constraints of social or cultural binds.\n\nThis perspective is derived from the Christian-Romantic tradition. Unger argues that this tradition has two themes: interpersonal relations with love as the redemptive moment, and that a person's identity is not defined by membership in social ranks and division. This then gives expression to the idea that humans are never at home in the world and that they are constantly striving to remake the world. The modernist development takes up this theme but emphasizes interpersonal relations over impersonal reality or good so that no institutional settings can limit the possibilities of humanity. We “can assert [our] independence only by perpetual war against the fact of contextually…”\n\nIn laying forth a view of human nature and prescription of self-affirmation, Unger recognizes that he faces the predicament of employing one system of thought that has developed out of particular historical circumstances and is thus no better or worse than any other system of thought. Indeed, under what auspices can such a philosophical orientation be turned into a normative prescription?\n\nUnger turns this question from one of general principles to one of the enactment of a vision or project of self-affirmation. For Unger, at issue here is not the pure speculation of philosophical inquiry into the nature of human beings and their activities, but rather a transformative project of self and society. In this way, the task is to realize a vision and enact a program of self-affirmation. The only alternative is to find a better one or fail at self-affirmation. The standards by which Unger confirms a project of self-affirmation are as follows: socially it is unstable if it fails to deal with behavior predispositions or material constraints, and existentially it fails if it disregards recurrent features of our experience, e.g. dependence upon others.\n\nUnger looks closely at existential projects that fail: the heroic ethic (delusional about historic setting, which negates the ethic), and the impersonal absolute ethic (Buddhism, which tries but cannot divest itself of the world). Both respond to the fact of the individual not being the center of the world. However, by doing so they disengage from the world and others. While Confucianism addresses interdependence, the philosophy elevates it to a level of canonical hierarchy and thus imposes strict constraints.\n\nUnger sees the Christian-Romantic tradition as the one tradition that puts the individual at the center of the world and gives him the tools for the liberation of self and environment. However, similar to the world's religious and philosophical traditions, it fails to provide a lasting answer to the predicament of human existence. This failure is the constant danger that after liberation the self will return to its customary affairs and routine practices. Rather than moving onwards to greater feats of humanity and godlike existence, the individual will allow everyday affairs to again take over. This surrender to habit is directly linked to the defeat of the imagination. Thus metaphysical revolution is needed through a psychology of empowerment and an analysis of social conditions upon which this empowerment relies. Unger’s project begins here.\n\nPassion begins with a long introductory foray into the Western philosophical tradition of human nature before moving onto a four-part meditation of human experience and expression. In part one, he sets out to define passion as the noninstrumental dealings that we have with others; they organize and are organized around the need and danger that is at the heart of our relations with others. This definition is developed out of the argument that the individual is in constant conflict in the world: at once attempting to assert the self as individual and establish difference, but at same time to gain acceptance by others. We are thus defined by the mutual need and reliance upon each other, and the mutual fear of each other in acceptance or rejection. Passion is at the heart of this reciprocal and infinite terror and longing for each other.\n\nIn part two, Unger attempts to explain how one becomes capable of passion. He charts out a path by which the individual first has desire, which is then augmented with imagination. The imagination reveals an insatiability of the infinite sense of self, which is but then contingent upon the acceptance of others. With this recognition, then, the contingency of the self is revealed. With the further realization of death we come to see that nothing outside of the self can fulfill desire; we want to see the self as transcending all of the fixed social world.\n\nIn part three, Unger addresses the passions themselves. As James Glass in \"Political Psychology\" writes, \"Not only do these passions civilize and humanize experience; their practice transcends social status, framework, and stratification. Existing beyond class and history, they possess an autonomy that resists the disintegrative pull of power and self-interest, the historical and social differences induced by envy, jealousy, pride, and vanity.\" Unger describes each one in a way that brings out the need-danger antinomy and the context dependent-transcended dichotomy.\n\n\nPart four charts the task ahead, which Unger says is to find the collective equivalents to the personal experiences of love, faith, and hope. We must strive to discover the structures that can realize these passions in the everyday world. All too often visions of the future human and environment exclude from social life the personal connections represented in the passions, choosing instead to focus on the recreation of the material world. Unger’s call, however, is to take full account of the passions so we may transcend our context and become more godlike.\n\nThe book’s appendix is \"A Program for Late Twentieth-Century Psychiatry,\" an apropos article previously published in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\" in 1982, whose argument can be summed up as \"psychoanalytic theory offers opportunities to replicate, but not to transform, individual and social contexts.\"\n\nThe book has been met with critical but high acclaim in both legal and philosophical circles. In his \"Times\" review, Jerome Neu, celebrated the book as \"some of the most brilliant writing of this kind since Hegel.\" Other reviewers have similarly praised it for its \"heretical presence both in contemporary social science and philosophy, a point of view that refuses both the \"scorched earth campaign of radical skepticism\" and the limitations of a social and political theory that roots meaning in transcendental or metaphysical absolutes.\" Yet reviewers have also expressed reservations over \"Unger's style, his normative reflections, his erudition and elusiveness.\" The \"Michigan Law Review\" asked for a more concrete articulation of Unger's idea, claiming that he left both his idea of the individual and program for psychiatry too ambiguous. \"That Unger's best society would be a place of playfulness and laughter is, however, only implicit in Passion, and Unger's failure to describe the mirthfulness of the world of love exemplifies the speculative tone that marks the central failure of the work as a whole.\" Similarly, James Boyle in the \"Harvard Law Review\" said that the speculative philosophy detracted from the effectiveness of the message, and thought the argument would have been better served with personal example.\n\nJ. Allan Hobson, in the pages of the \"Northwestern University Law Review\", capitalized on the inspiration of Unger's thesis to develop a new psychiatric program in \"advanc[ing] from a set of slogans to testable hypotheses.\" He praised Unger for pinpointing the root of the problem--\"Psychoanalysis is out of gas, and biological psychiatry is not yet up to speed. As a field in crisis, psychiatry is ripe for change.\"—but found Unger's theory of personality and program \"hopelessly inadequate\" because it was too speculative and failed to address biological data. Hobson attempted to develop a theory that would incorporate this biological data.\n\n"}
{"id": "153666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153666", "title": "Robert Kilwardby", "text": "Robert Kilwardby\n\nRobert Kilwardby (c. 1215 – 11 September 1279) was an Archbishop of Canterbury in England and a cardinal. Kilwardby was the first member of a mendicant order to attain a high ecclesiastical office in the English Church.\n\nKilwardby studied at the University of Paris, then was a teacher of grammar and logic there. He then joined the Dominican Order and studied theology, and became regent at Oxford University before 1261, probably by 1245. He was named provincial prior of the Dominicans for England in 1261, and in October 1272 Pope Gregory X appointed him as Archbishop of Canterbury to end a dispute over the election. Kilwardby was provided to the archbishopric on 11 October 1272, given the temporalities on 12 December 1272, and consecrated on 26 February 1273.\n\nKilwardby crowned Edward I and his wife Eleanor as king and queen of England in August 1274, but otherwise took little part in politics. He instead concentrated on his ecclesiastical duties, including charity to the poor and donating to the Dominicans.\n\nIn 1278 Pope Nicholas III named Kilwardby Cardinal Bishop of Porto and Santa Rufina. He then resigned Canterbury and left England, taking with him papers, registers and documents belonging to the see. He also left the see deep in debt again, after his predecessor had cleared the debt. He died in Italy in 1279 and was buried in the Dominican convent in Viterbo, Italy. While in theory this was a promotion, probably it was not, as the pope was unhappy with Kilwardby's support of efforts to resist the payment of papal revenues and with the lack of effort towards the reforms demanded at the Second Council of Lyon in 1274.\n\nKilwardby's theological and philosophical views were summed up by David Knowles who said that he was a \"conservative eclectic, holding the doctrine of seminal tendencies and opposing...the Aristotelian doctrine of the unity of form in beings, including man.\" Some sources state that he was the author of \"Summa Philosophiae\", a history and description of the schools of philosophical thought then current, but the writing style is not similar to his other works, and Knowles, for one, does not believe it was authored by Kilwardby.\n\nIt has been alleged that Kilwardby was an opponent of Thomas Aquinas. In 1277 he prohibited the teaching of thirty theses, some of which have been thought to touch upon Thomas Aquinas' teaching. Recent scholars, however, such as Roland Hissette, have challenged this interpretation.\n\nWritings on Grammar\n\nWrings on Logic\n\nWritings on Natural Philosophy\n\n+Writings on Ethics\n\n\"De tempore\" has been translated and edited by Alexander Broadie, and published as \"On Time and Imagination, Part 2: Introduction and Translation\". A critical edition of \"De orto scientiarum\" was published by Albert G. Judy, for The Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in 1976.\n\nKilwardby was also the author of a summary of the writings of the Church Fathers, arranged alphabetically, \"Tabulae super Originalia Patrum\", edited by Daniel A. Callus (Bruges: De Tempel, 1948).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42976392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42976392", "title": "Salvador Minguijón Adrián", "text": "Salvador Minguijón Adrián\n\nSalvador Minguijón Adrián (1874-1959) was a Spanish law scholar, political theorist and politician. As a lawyer he is known mostly as a longtime academic in the University of Zaragoza and briefly member of the Spanish constitutional court. As a theorist he is considered one of key representatives of Traditionalism. As a politician he is recognized as associated with Carlism, Christian Democracy, Primoderiverismo, Social Catholicism and early Francoism.\n\nJuan Salvador Minguijón Adrián was descendant to an Aragonese family of petty officials and artisans. His paternal ancestors originated from the village of Terrer in South-Western Aragon, where Salvador's grandfather worked as a primary school teacher; his son and Salvador's father, Jorge Minguijón Cacho (died 1895), was a local administrative clerk. At unspecified date he married María Antonia Adrián Martínez, herself from the nearby Calatayud. Her family originated from Visiedo in another Aragonese province of Teruel; Salvador's maternal grandfather worked as a carpenter. The couple had at least two sons, though exact number of their children is not clear.\n\nSalvador and his brother were raised in a profoundly religious ambience; his father was a local Catholic activist and his brother was to become a friar. Following childhood spent in Calatayud the young Salvador entered a diocesan seminary in Zaragoza, a path typically leading to a career of a priest or a school teacher. Having completed the schooling at unspecified time he enrolled at Universidad de Zaragoza, commencing learning at the faculty of Filosofía y Letras, where he completed the curriculum and graduated in 1896. He then moved to Madrid to pursue studies in law at ; having been awarded a Cum Laude diploma in 1900, Minguijón continued with doctoral research.\n\nIn 1903 Minguijón commenced the career of a lawyer becoming a notary in Sabiñán, a municipio in the comarca of Calatayud. In 1905 he switched to the same role in Brea, a slightly larger location in the comarca of Aranda, where he probably practiced very shortly as he soon commenced academic duties in Zaragoza. In 1906 Minguijón obtained PhD laurels in Madrid; his thesis, titled \"La responsabilidad civil extracontractual\", was considered excellent by the jury.\n\nAt unspecified time Salvador Minguijón married Ana-María Paraíso Ferruz; none of the sources consulted provides any information on his wife. The couple had 4 children: Carmen, Agustín, María Luisa and María Antonia. The family lived in Zaragoza, though in the mid-1930s they moved to Madrid. Minguijón spent his declining years alone: his brother died in 1917, his wife widowed him middle-aged in 1935, one daughter became a Discalced Carmelitan nun and has never left the monastery, the only son, a leading activist of , was executed by the Republicans in Paracuellos de Jarama in 1936, while another daughter died in the mid-1940s. Minguijón passed away in Zaragoza, en route to his usual summer holiday location in Irún.\n\nIn 1904-1905 Minguijón applied to a number of secondary education institutions in Zaragoza, but his bids for chairs of geography, history, letters, Latin and law proved unsuccessful. In 1905 he was accepted at temporary unpaid job of professor auxiliar at Facultad de Derecho of the Zaragoza University; the same year he defeated 5 counter-candidates and won the contest for professor auxiliar interino retribuido del segundo grupo, assuming regular teaching duties in 1906. In 1907 he was promoted to professor auxiliar numerario de segundo grupo. The same year he filled the vacancy in Historia General del Derecho Español as assistant professor. In 1910 he applied for Historia General del Derecho in Universidad de Valladolid, but it is not clear whether he took part in usual contest for the job. In 1911 he emerged victorious from the contest for chair of Historia General del Derecho in Zaragoza, thus terminating the period of junior assignments and assuming a major academic position.\n\nMinguijón served as head of history of law in Zaragoza almost for the following quarter of the century, his position in national realm of jurisprudence scholars enhanced following publication of a series of textbooks in the 1910s and especially his major work, \"Historia del Derecho Español\", issued in 1927. Since the mid-1910s he was being invited as jury member in contests for academic chairs, held across Spain. In the early 1930s he was already a distinguished law academic, known beyond the scientific milieu thanks to his numerous press contributions. Minguijón's juridical career was crowned in 1933, when he was elected as an academic nominee to , the Spanish constitutional court. The year marked also his departure from Zaragoza; he had to abandon the university chair as the new job required his presence in Madrid.\n\nMinguijón formally resigned from the anyway defunct Tribunal in September 1936; he returned to Zaragoza and resumed his university duties until in 1938 he was appointed to the new Francoist high court, Tribunal Supremo. Back in Madrid, in the early 1940s he chaired historia del derecho and sociología at Universidad Central. In 1940 he entered the very elite of Spanish academics, becoming a member of the Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Políticas. Minguijón resigned from all academic and official duties upon reaching the regular retirement age in 1944. Already in the 1930s he used to collaborate with semi-scholarly institutions, notably giving lectures at Ateneo de Madrid. This activity gained momentum following his retirement, especially as he became vice-president of the 1943-established Instituto Balmes de Sociología. Already in the early 1940s he engaged in works of of Zaragoza. In 1944 he became one of the moving spirits behind the Madrid Colegio de Aragón, set up by IFC as means of sustaining an Aragon identity, scaling down his engagement after 1953.\n\nMinguijón's written heritage is one major work, around 20 booklets, tens of scientific articles and hundreds of press items. In terms of topics, his opus is described by a present-day-scholar as multi-faceted. It may be roughly divided into 4 groups: jurisprudence, political thought, social sciences and ongoing public issues.\n\nHis most recognized works are those dealing with history of law. From 1911 to the early 1920s Minguijón published booklets formatted as textbooks for students, completed as a 12-volume series titled \"Elementos de historia del derecho español\"; apart from synthesis and update of earlier works they were heavily based on own research, related in particular to medieval and foral Spanish legislation. The series was a basis for a massive monograph, \"Historia del derecho español\" (1927), the 500-page work which gained Minguijón his name and scientific posture. Re-issued in few editions, until the mid-1950s it served as academic manual for generations of Spanish students.\n\nMinguijón's works on political thought were formatted mostly as pamphlets and booklets hardly exceeding 100 pages. The best known one, having been also chronologically the first, was \"La crisis del tradicionalismo en España\" (1914), a lecture of author's understanding of Traditionalism and its role in Spain of the era; it elevated the author to a prominent though controversial position within Carlism. It was followed by \"Humanismo y nacionalidad\" (1929), \"Al servicio de la Tradición\" (1930), \"La crisis de la libertad\" (1934), \"La Democracia\" (1934) and \"Los apologistas del siglo II\" (1936), all of them marking an attempt to transform Traditionalist outlook into a modern Christian doctrine.\n\nMinguijón's interest in social issues gradually developed into a hybrid in-between the science of sociology and theories of addressing social problems. It was first demonstrated in \"Las luchas del periodismo\" (1908), a discussion of social obligations of the press, followed by \"Hombres e ideas. Estudios sociales\" (1910), \"Propiedad y trabajo\" (1920), \"La función social de la propiedad\" (1930) and \"La Propiedad\" (1935) and combined with numerous articles in specialized reviews. Some works fall rather into philosophy, as Minguijón strove to present a general background of Christian thought; they are either a handful of minor works published for limited audience or translations from German.\n\nA numerically dominating group of Minguijón's writings are his press contributions, usually some 800-word commentaries dealing with ongoing public affairs. Far from partisan zeal and styled as impartial essays, within a wide public discourse they gained Minguijón recognition of a pundit. Starting the early 1910s he began to contribute to Catholic dailies across the country. However, he was particularly active writing to \"El Debate\" and emerged as key commentator of the Madrid daily. As during the Republic years \"El Debate\" became a semi-official CEDA mouthpiece, Minguijón, at that time member of the supreme national court, preferred to publish rather in various regional Catholic periodicals. During the Civil War and afterwards he did not resume his career of a press pundit.\n\nPolitical preferences of Minguijón's father are not entirely clear, though he is known to have at least sympathized with Carlism. A \"Salvador Minguijón\" from Calatayud was noted as signing a loyalist Carlist address in 1886, but for the first time he can be surely identified assuming public activity in 1897, taking part in local ecclesiastical educational initiatives. He followed an apparent periodista zeal: in 1908 he took part in a Catholic Asamblea Nacional de Buena Prensa, while in the 1910s co-founded and periodically managed socially minded Catholic periodicals, \"La paz social\", \"El Noticiero\" and \"El Pilar\". His Carlist leaning was reinforced at the University; in the early 20th century the Zaragoza Law Faculty was dominated by Jaimistas from the Comín dynasty. However, he was not noted as active within the Carlist realm until publication of \"La crisis del tradicionalismo en España\" in 1914.\n\n\"La crisis\" claimed that Traditionalist dogma was perfectly valid, though it had to be renewed and its application re-defined; Minguijón viewed it not as a fixed set of principles, but as an adaptive approach to problems of human civilization. The practical conclusion was that the Carlists should seek alliance with all political forces sharing the same lowest common denominator. He advocated rapprochement with the Integrists, with Lliga Regionalista and with the Mauristas. Indeed, some claim that he subscribed to a \"modelo maurrasiano\", a new counter-revolutionary movement exploring parliamentary opportunities to build a confessional, corporative and regional state; others underline inspiration by the concept of Catholic unity, launched by ACNDP and pursued by its freshly set up daily, \"El Debate\". The alliance implied that the Carlists should soften their approach to Catalanism, up to recognition of separate Catalan legislation and administration, and park their dynastical claims. Some scholars consider Minguijón's strategy a reference to Sexenio Democrático, when Carlism served as agglutinatory factor for conservative forces; it was supposed to lay path for peaceful transformation of liberal monarchy into a traditionalist one. The strategy presented was dubbed \"minimismo\" or \"minimismo tradicionalista\".\n\nWithin Carlism Minguijón's proposal was appreciated as an elaborated and genuine attempt to revitalize the movement, though the critics pointed out that it would be another version of , an opportunist amalgamation of Traditionalism within a broad conservative spectrum. They lambasted it as \"reducción grave y transcendental de las bases más esenciales de nuestra Comunión\" and amputation of Carlism. Skeptics offered a competitive diagnosis, namely that the crisis of Carlism was caused by the deadly virus of parliamentarism. Following a period of hesitation, in 1915 Minimismo was eventually disavowed by the claimant Don Jaime, who confirmed intransigence on dynastical issues and permitted at best neutral approach towards moderate Catalanism of La Lliga.\n\nIn the 1910s Carlism was dominated by a conflict between the claimant and the key party theorist, Juan Vázquez de Mella. At a first glance Minimismo and Mellismo seemed alike: both favored parking dynastical issues and forging a grand, Traditionalism-centred Right-wing alliance. However, scholars differ when discussing mutual position of the two concepts. Some name Minguijón a key protagonist of \"sector promellista\", highlighting their shared penchant for a conservative bloc; others note rather that Minguijón followed de Mella by firmly incorporating the social dimension into the doctrine. Some students, however, suggest that Minguijón opposed \"catastrofismo mellista\" by working towards a constructive solution. They highlight that Minguijón seemed inclined towards politics within the Alfonsist framework, while de Mella adopted a decisively anti-system stance with no dynastical commitments. One more difference was that unlike a fiercely Germanophile de Mella, during the Great War Minguijón adopted a pro-Entente stand and even considered setting up a pro-French daily.\n\nWhen the crisis climaxed in 1919 and the Mellistas broke away to build their own grouping, Minguijón maintained loyalty to Don Jaime. According to some sources he remained influential enough to enforce – together with Francisco Melgar - resignation of Pascual Comín y Moya from the temporary Carlist leadership. However, his days in the movement were already numbered. Together with a group of socially-minded Zaragoza scholars he had been co-operating with for more than a decade, especially Severino Aznar and Inocencio Jiménez, in 1919 he co-founded Grupo de Democracía Cristiana, an organization under the auspices of cardinal Guiasola. Though technically it did not constitute a breach of loyalty towards the Carlist king, Minguijón concluded that Carlism was no longer offering a viable solution. He confirmed his commitment to Traditionalist values, but in terms of political strategy he perceived Carlism a dead-end street: Don Jaime was deprived of descendants and acting as a party leader rather than as a king, while the movement trapped in dynastical intransigence was deprived of any allies. Determined to seek broad partnership on minimalist basis, Minguijón left Jaimismo in 1920.\n\nIn 1922 Minguijón co-issued a manifesto launching ; he was among the Zaragoza socially-minded theorists, one of six streams which merged in the new organization. The party, inspired by social encylicae of Leo XIII, is considered the first Spanish incarnation of Christian Democracy; Minguijón co-authored its \"Programa mínimo\" and enthusiastically advocated its broad platform as allegedly deprived of sectarian particularism; the party focus was on social issues tackled within a broad Catholic perspective. In PSP Minguijón remained one of key theorists, though the party was by no means short of them, having in its ranks also Severino Aznar, Inocencio Jiménez, , José Ibáñez Martín, José María Gil-Robles, Ángel Ossorio y Gallardo and Víctor Pradera. The organization, intended as agglutinatory force beyond a future broad right-wing platform, proved to have been just en episode; like all other political parties it was dissolved by the Primo de Rivera dictatorship in 1923.\n\nShortly after the March on Rome Minguijón defined Fascism as a sane response to social disunity and administrative chaos, the problems haunting Spain as well; though he refrained from endorsing violence and dictatorship, Minguijón noted that also in his country \"tenemos necesidad de depuración y de disciplina\". Upon the advent of the Primo de Rivera dictatorship two months later he greeted the developments with cautious optimism; by the end of 1923 the pesepistas voiced their support for renewal and \"reconstitución\" of political setting. Underlining no support for violence, they hoped for increased social work, making vague references to agrarian reform, syndical liberties, cheap credit, municipal self-government and advanced labor legislation.\n\nMany former PSP members, most notably Víctor Pradera, emerged as key theorists behind the primoderiverista regime; however, Minguijón was not visible in the front row of its supporters. He focused mostly on quasi-political work adhering to the Christian-Democratic format, at that time championed mostly by Asociación Católica Nacional de Propagandistas. In 1923-1926 he engaged in Círculo de Estudios, a think-tank born out of ACNDP, giving lectures on social and political issues as well as publishing articles in specialized reviews. Many of them focused on his favorite topic, the question of property, advancing a thesis that increasing ownership among wide social strata was the best strategy for confronting both poverty and revolution. In 1926 he engaged in building , the nationwide labor organization, by scholars counted among representatives of \"tradicionalismo mellista\".\n\nIn the late 1920s Minguijón was active discussing structure and composition of the new state diet. Acknowledging that the freshly formed was merely a stepping stone towards the ultimate Asamblea Nacional, he fully agreed with its corporative format, in line with the theory of organic democracy. Engaging in polemics with other theorists like Ossorio y Gallardo he rather discussed components of the parliament, advocating slightly larger granularity of its structure. Himself he did not emerge as major Unión Patriótica official and was not appointed to the quasi-parliament; it is not clear whether, except relations with Pradera, he had access to Primo or any of key decision-makers of the regime. Tone of Minguijón's editorials, though never enthusiastic, cooled down over time; those from the late 1920s and 1930 are increasingly escapist. They discuss foreign policy, history, ideas, law, great personalities etc., but tend to evade current issues. They remain firm, however, in support of Catholic trade unions and Catholic social thought, as well as in opposition to violence.\n\nUpon the advent of the Second Spanish Republic Minguijón did not join any political party and adopted a position of an observer. In the spring of 1931 his press commentaries maintained an abstract, Aesopian language. In the months and years to come Minguijón assumed a more specific stance; though he declared himself a monarchist (with increasingly Alfonsist penchant), at the same time he advocated constructive work under the republican regime. His focus was invariably on social issues and the question of property. Lambasting elitism and liberal outlook he called for common good to take precedence over individual one and formulated his expectations in likewise spirit; in practical terms, they centred on agrarian reform and tackling unemployment. All the above stemmed from Catholic and not socialist principles; Minguijón firmly voiced against divorce and called for civilization based on rural, traditional basis, though he did not declare himself alarmed by separation of state and church.\n\nThough in favor of common spirit, Minguijón opposed dictatorship of the majority and acknowledged the anti-democratic tide overwhelming Europe as a \"crisis of liberty\"; he compared Fascist, Nazi and Soviet regimes using the word \"totalitario\", though he also distinguished between them. Denying Fascist identity, he admitted superiority of the Italian system – respectful to religious and secular tradition – compared to the Soviet one, praising also Piłsudski for stopping bolshevism in 1920 and Hitler for preventing a Bolshevik revolution in 1933. Minguijón denounced the Spanish revolutionary Left as inventing a Fascist menace but offering the same totalitarian solution; his own preference was for the Salazar regime.\n\nIn 1933 Minguijón co-founded a Zaragoza-based Centro de Estudios Sociales, born out of ACNDP and formatted as an Aragon version of the Madrid-based Instituto Social Obrero; he published in periodicals issued by both think-tanks. He remained active in Christian-Democratic realm, taking part in various international congresses. Politically he drew closer to CEDA; it was thanks to its votes, combined with support from other Right-wing groupings, that in October 1933 Minguijón was elected – according to some authors as \"tradicionalista\" – to Tribunal de Garantías Constitucionales, a 35-member body acting as the Republic's constitutional court.\n\nGaining seat in Tribunal suspended Minguijón's university career, enforced his transfer from Zaragoza to Madrid and reduced his activity as a press pundit, though he continued sending commentaries to various periodicals. As constitutional judge Minguijón found himself in an awkward position; the body was entrusted with safeguarding the juridical republican system, while at the same time he was growing increasingly disillusioned with legal order of the Republic. His struggle was reflected in a highly contested vote on the , known as Llei de Contractes de Conreu. The verdict was possibly the key pronouncement of the Tribunal durcing Minguijón's tenure and pertained to two issues: and the social question, the latter related to vineyard tenants’ status. The Tribunal, at that time dominated by conservatively minded judges, decided against the claims of the Catalans and the tenants; Minguijón did not share that opinion and recorded a votum separatum.\n\nThe July 1936 coup caught Minguijón during a summer break in Zaragoza. The city was almost immediately captured by the Nationalists and most University professors did not hesitate to voice their enthusiastic support for the rebels. Minguijón is not listed either among most active advocates of the cause or among those engineering purges at the University, though at some point he declared his backing. In September he formally resigned from the anyway defunct Tribunal and resumed teaching at his usual History of Law chair in University of Zaragoza, the role performed for 2 years until in November 1938 he was nominated to a newly established Nationalist high court, Tribunal Supremo. Having abandoned Aragón – this time for good – he resumed his highest judge role and formally contributed to forging of the Francoist system; until 1950 the Tribunal consisted of appointees deemed utterly loyal and entrusted with juridical institutionalization of the regime.\n\nAccording to a contemporary scholar, during the Civil War Minguijón was also vital to forging of the emerging Nationalist ideology. His part was about contributions to \"Noticiero de España\", a Burgos-based bulletin issued by Servicios de Prensa y Propaganda and created to disseminate official ideas of the emerging state; within its editorial board he formed a group dubbed \"juristas\", considered also representative of \"Traditionalists and Church\". There were 63 issues of \"Noticiero\" published during its most prolific phase; there are 9 Minguijón's articles identified, published between May 1938 and August 1939.\n\nMinguijón's role in \"Noticiero\" is described as related mostly to delegitimization of the Republic. Its regime was portrayed as climax of bolshevization which commenced in Russia in 1917 but manifested itself in Spain in , in Asturias in 1934 and following the victory of Frente Popular in 1936; Minguijón argued that the Republican regime abandoned its own rules, decomposed into anarchy and lost legitimacy; moreover, it turned against democratic principles and rising of genuine Spain was necessary, also to restore them. He wrote about the Republic with bitterness and visible disappointment, lamenting that the regime was trapped in contradictions: it failed to eradicate domination of the privileged classes and to introduce reforms based on the will of the people. All these hopes were now laid in the emerging Nationalist state. The earlier Minguijón's skepticism about Fascism gave way to cautious endorsement; he dubbed earlier comparisons between Fascism and Communism superficial and in one of his last articles published in \"Noticiero\", dated July 1939, he analyzed where Fascism overlapped with Traditionalism, having found 6 points that both had in common.\n\nFollowing the Nationalist capture of Madrid Minguijón settled in the city, where he resumed his academic career at history of law and at sociology in Universidad Central; his teaching influenced the next generation of Traditionalists like Rafael Gambra, who attended Minguijón's lectures and were to gain prominence in the 1960s. None of the sources consulted provides information on Minguijón's role in Tribunal Supremo; the entire body is known mostly for retroactively reversing many components of the Republican legislation. He did not assume any official posts in state administration; he is neither noted as active in political structures, be it Falangist or otherwise. In 1940 he entered the national executive of Acción Católica, occasionally giving lectures and publishing in AC periodicals.\n\nHaving retired from the Tribunal and the university in 1944 he focused on various duties in Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Políticas, Institución Fernando el Católico, Colegio de Aragón, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas and especially in Instituto Balmes de Sociología, created by CSIC as the brainchild of Severino Aznar. Due to his age and health, these activities declined sharply in the early 1950s; his last identified lecture in Real Academia took place in 1951 and his engagement in Instituto Balmes became loose after 1953.\n\nDuring Francoism Minguijón did not resume his longtime career of a press pundit, limiting himself to scientific and semi-scientific articles in specialized or Catholic reviews. Little is known about his personal views on the developing Francoist system. In the press he was quoted as pursuing his interest in social question and praising social institutions of the Nationalist Spain, especially , for their efficiency, at least compared to the Republican efforts. He admitted Traditionalist outlook, though he is not recorded as active in any Carlist branch of the time. He was recollected as skeptical – also in private - about both democracy and capitalism, deemed anonymous and amorphous forces which should be confronted by \"localismo cultural\", based on tradition and – inevitably - small property.\n\nShortly before death Minguijón was described as a lonely old man, visited by a handful of disciples and few lifelong friends, like Severino Aznar; on the other hand, he remained perfectly lucid, serene, humble, as usual slightly ironic and far from any emphasis. Waking up around mid-day and working late into night, he was busy writing a treaty tailored as popularization of great philosophical concepts; it was supposed to amalgamate them within a new vision, intended for the future. His death was acknowledged by brief notes in some national newspapers; Colegio de Aragón organized a memorial homage session shortly afterwards.\n\nAs a conservative theorist who strove to stimulate organization of the working class Minguijón failed; he is not noted as influencing Carlist syndicates either in their Catholic or pistolerismo format. However, already in the early 1910s Minguijón was noted in wide public discourse as \"excelente periodista católico\" or \"ilustre publicista católico\", in the 1920s acknowledged also as \"conocido sociologo\". When referred to as a law scholar, apart from the usual \"catedrático\" he was occasionally hailed as \"maestro\". In professional realm he gained name following the 1927 publication of \"Historia del derecho español\", in 1933 entering the elite of jurisprudence scholars when nominated to Tribunal de Garantias and finally acquiring the highest status available to an academic when nominated to Real Academia de Ciencias Morales y Políticas in 1940. It remains striking, however, that he was not invited to Real Academia de Jurisprudencia y Legislación.\n\nAfter Minguijón's death a street in Zaragoza and a college in his native Calatayud were named after him; in both cases the naming survived purges related to anti-Francoist backlash of the late 20th century and implementation of Ley de Memoria Histórica of 2007. None of his works has been re-published and the institutions he co-founded, Instituto Balmes and Colegio de Aragón, ceased to exist as separate units. In public discourse he was gradually falling into oblivion; since 1959 up to date the popular Madrid daily \"ABC\" mentioned him 7 times, in all cases briefly noting his name when discussing Christian-Democratic, Traditionalist or social thought; a contemporary scholar declared him a \"completely forgotten figure\". Currently he is acknowledged only in major general encyclopedias, covered in very brief notes as \"historiador del derecho\", member of the high Tribunal and \"periodista\". In specialized almanacs and reference dictionaries he appears as a scholar in philosophy.\n\nMinguijón has earned no monograph so far. In historical literature he is noted mostly as a political theorist, though exact categorization might differ: he could be referred to as one of the first Christian-Democratic politicians and theorists in Spain, as a somewhat unorthodox Carlist who strove to modernize Traditionalism, as a representative of corporativismo católico, democracia orgánica and católicismo social, or as in the very recent work, as key contributor to theoretical vision of the emerging Francoism. Some authors straightforwardly declare Minguijón an enemy of democracy, some prefer qualified applications like \"democristiano\" and some quote him speaking passionately against \"democracia individualista y caótica\", while declaring that only a corporative system ensured genuine democracy. Few authors recognize him as one of sociology pioneers in Spain, the follower of Jaime Balmes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4437604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4437604", "title": "Sarvangasana", "text": "Sarvangasana\n\nSarvangasana ( ; IAST: \"sarvāṅgāsana\"; ) or Shoulderstand is an āsana.\n\nMany variations of the shoulderstand exist, the likely most common to be taught is Supported Shoulderstand (Salamba Sarvangāsana).\n\nSarvangāsana is nicknamed \"queen\" or \"mother\" of all the asanas.\n\nThe name in the case of Salamba Sarvāngāsana (Supported Shoulderstand) comes from the Sanskrit words \"Salamba\" meaning \"supported\", \"Sarva\" meaning \"all\" or \"every\", \"Anga\" meaning \"limb\" or \"bodypart\", and \"Āsana\" meaning \"posture\",\" position\", or \"seat\", thus Salamba Sarvāngasana literally translates to \"supported-all-limbs-pose\". \n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34629603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34629603", "title": "Shams al-Din al-Khafri", "text": "Shams al-Din al-Khafri\n\nShams al-Din Muhammad b. Ahmad al-Khafri al-Kashi (died 1550), known as Khafri, was a Persian religious scholar and astronomer at the beginning of the Safavid dynasty, during a period of mass conversion to Shia Islam. He wrote on philosophy, religion, and astronomy, the latter including a commentary on al-Tusi and critiques of al-Shirazi.\n\nIn his commentary on al-Tusi Khafri contributes some original solutions to the equant problem, three for Mercury and one for the Moon. His solution for the Moon, like Ptolemy's original model, still contains the discrepancy for the Moon's distance that was fixed earlier by al-Shatir, of whose work he was apparently not aware.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26800717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26800717", "title": "Sigríður Þorgeirsdóttir", "text": "Sigríður Þorgeirsdóttir\n\nSigríður Þorgeirsdóttir (born 1958 in Iceland) is professor of philosophy at the University of Iceland. In 1997 she was the first woman to become a member of the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Iceland. Prior to that she lectured in philosophy at Rostock University. She was Jane and Aatos Erkko professor at Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies 2014-2015, University of Helsinki.\n\nSigríður graduated from Boston University in 1981. She pursued graduate studies in Boston and at Freie Universität Berlin where she finished her master's degree in 1988. In 1993 she completed her doctoral studies at the Humboldt-Universität in Berlin.\n\nSigríður specializes in the philosophy of Nietzsche, feminist philosophy and philosophy of nature and embodiment. She has interpreted Nietzsche's philosophy of the body and sexual difference in terms of its influence on feminist and women thinkers of the 20th century, from Hannah Arendt and Simone de Beauvoir to Luce Irigaray and Judith Butler. She has published works on feminist philosophy, the philosophy of Arendt and Beuvoir, and recently introductory texts to women in the history of philosophy. In her writings on philosophy of embodiment and nature, the notions of relationality and connectedness are central. This also influences her recent work on economy and morals, such as in studies on the debt-economy.\n\nSigríður is one of the founders of the United Nations University GEST—Gender Equality Studies and Training Programme, a joint project of the United Nations University, University of Iceland and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. She serves on the Academic Advisory Board of the Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies. She is on the board of FISP, the world organisation of philosophical societies that organizes the World Congress of Philosophy, and chair of its committee for gender issues. The Department of Philosophy at the University of Iceland hosts the Erasmus Summer Schools in Gender and Philosophy that Sigríður runs with colleagues from the universities of Jyväskylä in Finland, Oslo in Norway and Aalborg in Denmark.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37722060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37722060", "title": "Sisters of the Holy Face", "text": "Sisters of the Holy Face\n\n\"For the Benedictine order, see Sisters of the Reparation of the Holy Face\"\n\nThe Sisters of the Holy Face is a Roman Catholic religious organization for women. The members of the order use the abbreviation SSV after their names.\n\nThe order was founded in San Fior in Treviso Italy in 1930 by Blessed Maria Pia Mastena (1881-1951). It was initially approved by the Bishop of Vittorio Veneto on December 8, 1936 and the approval of the Congregation of Pontifical Right on 10 December 1947.\n\nThe order has 22 houses, including some in Brazil and Indonesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2681583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2681583", "title": "Suizen", "text": "Suizen\n\nSuizen (吹禅) (“blowing Zen”) is a Zen practice consisting of playing the traditional Japanese shakuhachi bamboo flute as a means of attaining self-realization. Suizen was traditionally practised by the Komusō (“monks of emptiness”), the Zen Buddhist monks of the Fuke sect of Japan who flourished during the Edo period (1600 to 1868).\n\nInstrumental music is rare in all Buddhist practice where instruments usually accompany ritual chants if they are used at all. With \"suizen\", the playing of the shakuhachi as a spiritual exercise is at the core of the religious practice, making it unique in the world of Buddhism.\n\nThe practice of \"suizen\" may be understood in the context of both ancient Buddhist and Chinese classics which exerted a profound influence on Japanese music, which used awareness of sound as a medium of enlightenment.\n\nBreath is also of fundamental significance as the standard practice of sitting Zen meditation (\"zazen\") and so there is a natural link between \"zazen\" and \"suizen\". The type of breathing technique required varies from school to school within \"suizen\".\n\nThe concept of \"ichi on jo butsu\" – the attainment of enlightenment through a single note – became an important aspect of the \"Fuke\" sect’s ‘blowing Zen’ as it developed in later periods. The sound produced by the instrument, which was taught along strict and traditional lines in the \"suizen\" schools, is not considered important. It is the practice of blowing which leads to enlightenment.\n\nIn 1823 Hisamatsu Fūyō (Hisamatsu Masagoro Suga no Sandaharu – c. 1790s to c. 1880s) published his short treatise on \"suizen\" practice, Hitori Mondō (“self-questioning”). Here, Hisamatsu Fūyō speaks of “going all the way with intellect and then going beyond intellect” on the path to enlightenment. He distinguishes the form (\"jitsu\") of shakuhachi music played for entertainment from the emptiness (\"kyo\") of Zen instrumental practice.\n\nThe shakuhachi repertoire derives from the Fuke original solo pieces, the \"Honkyoku.\" For suizen practitioners these are traditionally played in the manner of a personal spiritual practice and not as a public performance.\n\nThe traditions of Fuke Zen and \"suizen\" continue today both in Japan and around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "25663808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25663808", "title": "Tax on childlessness", "text": "Tax on childlessness\n\nThe tax on childlessness () was imposed in the Soviet Union and other Communist countries, starting in the 1940s, as part of their natalist policies. Joseph Stalin's regime created the tax in order to encourage adult people to reproduce, thus increasing the number of people and the population of the Soviet Union. The 6% income tax affected men from the age of 25 to 50, and married women from 20 to 45 years of age.\n\nThe tax remained in place until the collapse of the Soviet Union, though by the end of the Soviet Union, the amount of money which could be taxed was steadily reduced. Minister of Health Mikhail Zurabov and Deputy Chairman of the State Duma Committee for Health Protection Nikolai Gerasimenko proposed reinstating the tax in Russia in 2006, but so far it has not been reinstated. \n\nAs originally passed and enforced from 1941 to 1990, the tax affected most childless men from 25 to 50 years of age, and most childless married women from 20 to 45 years of age. The tax was 6% of the childless person's wages, but it provided certain exceptions: those with children that died during World War II did not have to pay the tax, nor did war heroes that received certain awards. Also, many students were able to obtain an exemption from the tax, as did people who earned less than 70 rubles a month. Furthermore, those who were medically incapable to give birth were also exempt to this tax, and many single men fraudulently escaped the tax by claiming infertility and provided fake medical documentation.\n\nAfter 1990, the income exemption was increased to 150 rubles, meaning that the first 150 rubles of income for childless adults went untaxed. In 1991, the tax was changed to no longer apply to women, and in 1992, it was rendered irrelevant and inactive due to the collapse of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1946, communist Poland introduced a similar increase of the basic income tax rate, in effect a tax on childlessness, popularly called \"\" in Polish (\"bull's tax\", the \"bull\" being a metonymy for an unmarried man). First, childless and unmarried people over 21 years of age were affected (from 1 January 1946 till 29 November 1956), then only over 25 years of age (30 November 1956 till 1 January 1973).\n\nTaxes on childlessness were part of the natalist policy introduced by Nicolae Ceaușescu in Communist Romania in the period 1967-1990. Along with the outlawing of abortion and contraception (1967) and mandatory gynecological revisions, these taxes were introduced in various forms in 1977 and 1986. Unmarried citizens had to pay penalty for childlessness, the tax income rate being increased by 8-10% for them.\n\nDuring the Soviet Union, Russia had a higher fertility rate than it did in the years after the fall of the Soviet Union, prompting some Russian leaders to propose bringing back the tax on childlessness. According to the Health Ministry, the total fertility rate dropped from 2.19 children/woman to 1.17 children/woman in the aftermath of the Soviet Union. According to the Russian Director of the Center for Demography Anatoly Vishnevsky, this birth rate is among the lowest in the world, and Russian leaders have described the demographic issues in Russia as being symptomatic of a \"crisis.\"\n\nWhile the tax on childlessness has not been re-enacted, other proposals have been. For example, Vladimir Putin enacted a proposal to provide cash incentives for women who are willing to have a second child.\n\n"}
{"id": "37544445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37544445", "title": "The Logic of Modern Physics", "text": "The Logic of Modern Physics\n\nThe Logic of Modern Physics is a 1927 philosophy of science book by American physicist and Nobel laureate Percy Williams Bridgman. The book was widely read by scholars in the social sciences, in which it had a huge influence in the 1930s and 1940s, and its major influence on the field of psychology in particular surpassed even that on methodology in physics, for which it was originally intended. The book is notable for explicitly identifying, analyzing, and explaining operationalism for the first time, and coining the term operational definition.\n\nOperationalism can be considered a variation on the positivist theme, and, arguably, a very powerful and influential one. Sir Arthur Eddington had discussed notions similar to operationalization before Bridgman, and pragmatic philosophers had also advanced solutions to the related ontological problems. Bridgman's formulation, however, became the most influential.\n\nIn the social sciences, the main influence has been in psychology. The influence on psychology has been even greater than that on methodology in physics, for which it was originally intended. Examples of the influence on psychology in the 1930s and 1940s include Stanley Smith Stevens (\"The Operational Basis of Psychology\" and \"The Operational Definition of Psychological Concepts\"), and Clark L. Hull (\"The Principles of Behavior: An Introduction to Behavior Theory\"). Since then, it has been the central influence of the official epistemology governing psychological method for the whole century.\" It was a major influence on behaviorism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "224108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224108", "title": "Vipassanā", "text": "Vipassanā\n\nVipassanā (Pāli) or vipaśyanā (), \"insight,\" in the Buddhist tradition is insight into the true nature of reality, defined as \"dukkha\" (suffering or unsatisfactoriness), \"anatta\" (non-self), and \"anicca\" (impermanence), the three marks of existence in the Theravada tradition, and as \"sunyata\" and \"Buddha-nature\" in the Mahayana traditions. \n\nMeditation practice was ended in the Theravada tradition the 10th century, but was re-introduced in Myanmar (Burma) the 18th century, based on contemporary readings of the \"Satipatthana-sutta\", the \"Visuddhimagga\", and other texts. A new tradition developed in the 19th and 20th century, centering on bare insight in conjunction with \"samatha\". It became of central importance in the 20th century Vipassana movement as developed by Ledi Sayadaw and Mogok Sayadaw and popularised by Mahasi Sayadaw, V. R. Dhiravamsa, and S. N. Goenka.\n\nIn modern Theravada, the combination or disjunction of \"vipassana\" and \"samatha\" is a matter of dispute. While the Pali sutras hardly mention \"vipassana\", describing it as a mental quality alongside with \"samatha\" which develop in tandem and lead to liberation, the Abhidhamma and the commentaries describe \"samatha\" and \"vipassana\" as two separate meditation techniques. The Vipassana-movement favoures \"vipassana\" over \"samatha\", but critics point out that both are necessary elements of the Buddhist training.\n\n\"Vipassanā\" is a Pali word from the Sanskrit prefix \"vi-\" and verbal root paś. It is often translated as \"insight\" or \"clear-seeing\", though the \"in-\" prefix in \"insight\" may be misleading; \"vi\" in Indo-Aryan languages is equivalent to the Latin \"dis.\" The \"vi\" in vipassanā may then mean to see into, see through or to see 'in a special way.' Alternatively, the \"vi\" can function as an intensive, and thus vipassanā may mean \"seeing deeply.\"\n\nA synonym for \"Vipassanā\" is \"paccakkha\" (Pāli; Sanskrit: \"\"), \"before the eyes,\" which refers to direct experiential perception. Thus, the type of seeing denoted by \"vipassanā\" is that of direct perception, as opposed to knowledge derived from reasoning or argument.\n\nIn Tibetan, \"vipaśyanā\" is \"lhagthong\" (wylie: \"lhag mthong\"). The term \"lhag\" means \"higher\", \"superior\", \"greater\"; the term \"thong\" is \"view\" or \"to see\". So together, \"lhagthong\" may be rendered into English as \"superior seeing\", \"great vision\" or \"supreme wisdom.\" This may be interpreted as a \"superior manner of seeing\", and also as \"seeing that which is the essential nature.\" Its nature is a lucidity—a clarity of mind.\n\nHenepola Gunaratana defined Vipassanā as:\nAccording to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, in the sutta pitaka the term \"vipassanā\" is hardly mentioned, while they frequently mention jhana as the meditative practice to be undertaken. When \"vipassanā\" is mentioned, it is always in tandem with \"samatha\", as a pair of qualities of mind which are developed. According to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, \"\"samatha\", \"jhana\", and \"vipassana\" were all part of a single path.\" Norman notes that \"the Buddha's way to release [...] was by means of meditative practices.\" According to Vetter and Bronkhorst, \"dhyāna\" constituted the original \"liberating practice\". Vetter further argues that the eightfold path constitutes a body of practices which prepare one, and lead up to, the practice of \"dhyana\". Vetter and Bronkhorst further note that \"dhyana\" is not limited to single-pointed concentration, which seems to be described in the first \"jhana\", but develops into equanimity and mindfulness, \"born from samadhi\" but no longer absorbed in concentration, being mindfully awareness of objects while being indifferent to it, \"directing states of meditative absorption towards the mindful awareness of objects.\"\n\nThough both terms appear in the Sutta Pitaka, Gombrich and Brooks argue that the distinction as two \"separate\" paths originates in the earliest \"interpretations\" of the Sutta Pitaka, not in the suttas themselves. Henepola Gunaratana notes that \"[t]he classical source for the distinction between the two vehicles of serenity and insight is the Visuddhimagga.\" According to Richard Gombrich, a development took place in early Buddhism resulting in a change in doctrine, which considered \"prajna\" to be an alternative means to awakening, alongside the practice of \"dhyana\". The suttas contain traces of ancient debates between Mahayana and Theravada schools in the interpretation of the teachings and the development of insight. Out of these debates developed the idea that bare insight suffices to reach liberation, by discerning the Three marks (qualities) of (human) existence (\"tilakkhana\"), namely dukkha (suffering), anatta (non-self) and anicca (impermanence).\n\nAccording to Buswell, by the 10th century \"vipassana\" was no longer practiced in the Theravada tradition, due to the believe that Buddhism had degenerated, and that liberation was no longer attainable until the coming of \"Maitreya\". It was re-introdcued in Myanmar (Burma) in the 18th century by Medawi (1728–1816), leading to the rise of the Vipassana movement in the 20th century, re-inventing \"vipassana\"-meditation and developing simplified meditation techniques, based on the \"Satipatthana sutta\", the \"Visuddhimagga\", and other texts, emphasizing \"satipatthana\" and bare insight. Ultimately, these techniques aim at stream entry, with the idea that this first stage of the path to awakening safeguards future development of the person towards full awakening, despite the degenerated age we live in.\n\nWhile the Abhidhamma and the commentaries present \"samatha\" and \"vipassana\" as separate paths, in the sutras \"vipassana\" and \"samatha\", combined with \"sati\" (mindfulness), are used together to explore \"the fundamental nature of mind and body. In the later Theravada tradition, samatha is regarded as a preparation for vipassanā, pacifying the mind and strengthening concentration in order for insight to arise, which leads to liberation.\n\nThe term \"vipassana\" is often conflated with the Vipassana movement, a movement which popularised the new \"vipassana\" teachings and practice. It started in the 1950s in Burma, but has gained wide renown mainly through American Buddhist teachers such as Joseph Goldstein, Tara Brach, Gil Fronsdal, Sharon Salzberg, and Jack Kornfield. The movement has had a wide appeal due to being open and inclusive to different Buddhist and non-buddhist wisdom, poetry as well as science. It has together with the modern American Zen tradition served as one of the main inspirations for the 'mindfulness movement' as developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn and others. The Vipassanā Movement, also known as the Insight Meditation Movement, is rooted in Theravāda Buddhism and the revival of meditation techniques, especially the \"New Burmese Method\" and the Thai Forest Tradition, as well as the modern influences on the traditions of Sri Lanka, Burma, Laos and Thailand.\n\nIn the Vipassanā Movement, the emphasis is on the Satipatthana Sutta and the use of mindfulness to gain insight into the impermanence of the self. It argues that the development of strong samatha can be disadvantageous, a stance for which the Vipassana Movement has been criticised, especially in Sri Lanka. The \"New Burmese Method\" was developed by U Nārada (1868–1955), and popularised by Mahasi Sayadaw (1904-1982) and Nyanaponika Thera (1901–1994). Other influential Burmese proponents are Ledi Sayadaw and Mogok Sayadaw (who was less known to the West due to lack of International Mogok Centres); S. N. Goenka was a student of Ledi Sayadaw. Influential Tai teachers are Ajahn Chah and Buddhadasa. A well-known Asian female teacher is Dipa Ma.\n\nVipassanā-meditation uses \"sati\" (mindfulness) and \"samatha\" (calm), developed through the practice of \"anapanasati\" (mindfulness of breathing), combined with the contemplation of impermanence as observed in the bodily and mental changes, to gain insight into the true nature of this reality.\n\nPractice begins with the preparatory stage, the practice of \"sila\", morality, giving up wordly thoughts and desires. Jeff Wilson notes that morality is a quintessential element of Buddhist practice, and is also emphasized by the first generation of post-war western teachers. Yet, in the contemporary mindfulness movement, morality as an element of practice has been mostly discarded, 'mystifying' the origins of mindfulness.\n\nThe practitioner then engages in \"anapanasati\", mindfulness of breathing, which is described in the Satipatthana Sutta as going into the forest and sitting beneath a tree and then to simply watch the breath. If the breath is long, to notice that the breath is long, if the breath is short, to notice that the breath is short. In the \"New Burmese Method,\" the practitioner pays attention to any arising mental or physical phenomenon, engaging in vitaka, noting or naming physical and mental phenomena (\"breathing, breathing\"), without engaging the phenomenon with further conceptual thinking. By noticing the arising of physical and mental phenomena, the meditator becomes aware how sense impressions arise from the contact between the senses and physical and mental phenomena, as described in the five \"skandhas\" and \"paṭiccasamuppāda\". According to Sayadaw U Pandita, awareness and observation of these sensations is de-coupled from any kind of physical response, which is intended to recondition one's impulsive responses to stimuli, becoming less likely to physically or emotionally overreact to the happenings of the world\n\nThe practitioner also becomes aware of the perpetual changes involved in breathing, and the arising and passing away of mindfulness. This noticing is accompanied by reflections on causation and other Buddhist teachings, leading to insight into dukkha, anatta, and anicca. When the three characteristics have been comprehended, reflection subdues, and the process of noticing accelerates, noting phenomena in general, without necessarily naming them.\n\nVipassanā jhanas are stages that describe the development of samatha in \"vipassanā\" meditation practice as described in modern Burmese Vipassana meditation. \nMahasi Sayadaw's student Sayadaw U Pandita described the four \"vipassanā jhanas\" as follows:\n\nThe north Indian Buddhist traditions like the Sarvastivada and the Sautrantika practiced \"vipaśyanā\" meditation as outlined in texts like the Abhidharmakosha of Vasubandhu and the Yogacarabhumi. The Abhidharmakosha states that \"vipaśyanā\" is practiced once one has reached samadhi (absorption) by cultivating the four foundations of mindfulness (\"smrtyupasthanas\"). This is achieved according to Vasubandhu:\nAsanga's Abhidharma-samuccaya states that the practice of \"śamatha\"-\"vipaśyanā\" is a part of a Bodhisattva's path at the beginning, in the first \"path of preparation\" (\"Sambharamarga\").\n\nThe later Indian Mahayana scholastic tradition, as exemplified by Shantideva's Bodhicaryavatara, saw \"śamatha\" as a necessary prerequisite to \"vipaśyanā\" and thus one needed to first begin with calm abiding meditation and then proceed to insight. In the Panjika commentary of Prajnakaramati on the Bodhicaryavatara, \"vipaśyanā\" is defined simply as \"wisdom (\"prajña\") that has the nature of thorough knowledge of reality as it is.\"\n\nMahāyāna \"vipaśyanā\" differs from the Theravada tradition in its strong emphasis on the meditation on emptiness (shunyata) of all phenomena. The Mahayana \"Akṣayamati-nirdeśa\" refers to vipaśyanā as seeing phenomena as they really are, that is, empty, without self, nonarisen, and without grasping. The Prajnaparamita sutra in 8,000 lines states that the practice of insight is the non-appropriation of any dharmas, including the five aggregates:\nLikewise the Prajnaparamita in 25,000 lines states that a Bodhisattva should know the nature of the five aggregates as well as all dharmas thus:\nThe Sthaviravāda, one of the early Buddhist schools from which the Theravada-tradition originates, emphasized sudden insight:\nThe Mahasanghika, another one of the early Buddhist schools, had the doctrine of \"ekaksana-citt\", \"according to which a Buddha knows everything in a single thought-instant\". This process however, meant to apply only to the Buddha and Peccaka buddhas. Lay people may have to experience various levels of insights to become fully enlightened.\n\nThe Mahayana tradition emphasizes prajna, insight into sunyata, dharmata, the two truths doctrine, clarity and emptiness, or bliss and emptiness:\nAlthough Theravada and Mahayana are commonly understood as different streams of Buddhism, their practice however, may reflect emphasis on insight as a common denominator:\nThe emphasis on insight is discernible in the emphasis in Chán on sudden insight, though in the Chán-tradition this insight is to be followed by gradual cultivation.\n\nIn Chinese Buddhism, the works of Tiantai master Zhiyi (such as the Mohe Zhiguan, \"Great śamatha-vipaśyanā\") are some of the most influential texts which discuss \"vipaśyanā\" meditation from a Mahāyāna perspective. In this text Zhiyi teaches the contemplation of the skandhas, ayatanas, dhātus, the Kleshas, false views and several other elements. Likewise the influential text called the Awakening of Faith scripture has a section on calm and insight meditation. It states:\nThe Chan (Zen) Buddhist tradition advocates the simultaneous practice of \"śamatha\" and \"vipaśyanā\", and this is called the practice of Silent Illumination. The classic Chan text known as the Platform Sutra states:\n\"Samatha\" and \"vipassana\" are explicitly referred to in Tibetan Buddhism. According to Thrangu Rinpoche, when \"shamatha\" and \"vipashyana\" are combined, as in the mainstream tradion Madhyamaka approach of ancestors like Shantideva and Kamalashila, through \"samatha\" disturbing emotions are abandoned, which thus facilitates \"vipashyana\", \"clear seeing.\" \"Vipashyana\" is cultivated through reasoning, logic and analysis in conjunction with Shamatha. In contrast, in the siddha tradition of the direct approach of Mahamudra and Dzogchen, \"vipashyana\" is ascertained directly through looking into one's own mind. After this initial recognition of \"vipashyana\", the steadiness of \"shamatha\" is developed within that recognition. According to Thrangu Rinpoche, it is however also common in the direct approach to first develop enough \"shamatha\" to serve as a basis for \"vipashyana\".\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, the classical practice of \"śamatha\" and \"vipaśyanā\" is strongly influenced by the Mahāyāna text called the Bhavanakrama of Indian master Kamalaśīla. Kamalaśīla defines \"vipaśyanā\" as \"the discernment of reality\" (\"bhūta-pratyavekṣā\") and \"accurately realizing the true nature of dharmas\".\n\nIndian Mahāyāna Buddhism employed both deductive investigation (applying ideas \"to\" experience) and inductive investigation (drawing conclusions \"from\" direct experience) in the practice of vipaśyanā. According to Leah Zahler, only the tradition of deductive analysis in vipaśyanā was transmitted to Tibet in the sūtrayāna context.\n\nIn Tibet direct examination of moment-to-moment experience as a means of generating insight became exclusively associated with vajrayāna.\n\nMahāmudrā and Dzogchen use vipaśyanā extensively. This includes some methods of the other traditions, but also their own specific approaches. They place a greater emphasis on meditation on symbolic images. Additionally in the Vajrayāna (tantric) path, the true nature of mind is pointed out by the guru, and this serves as a direct form of insight.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8164208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8164208", "title": "Volker Zotz", "text": "Volker Zotz\n\nVolker Helmut Manfred Zotz (born October 28, 1956) is an eminent Austrian philosopher, religious studies scholar, Buddhologist and a prolific author.\n\nThe Zotz family originated in Tyrol and spread to Germany. Volker Zotz was born in Landau in der Pfalz, Germany, where he attended elementary school and high school.\n\nHis interest in spirituality led him to an early study of Christianity as well as of Indian and Chinese religions. What impressed him most was Buddhist philosophy and meditation. When Zotz was sixteen he became a major disciple of Lama Anagarika Govinda, with whom he was close until his death in 1985. During his high school days, Zotz also met the author Oscar Kiss Maerth, whose ideas he did not completely agree with, but with whom he had an intense exchange of ideas.\n\nAfter graduating from Max Slevogt High School in Landau in the 1970s, he published his first poems in two volumes and a novel. As a conscientious objector Zotz had to perform eighteen months of alternative civilian service in a nursing home. From 1978 he studied Buddhism under Ernst Steinkellner and philosophy under Kurt Rudolf Fischer at the University of Vienna. He repeatedly interrupted his studies in Vienna to conduct research and fieldwork in India, Nepal and Afghanistan and to receive spiritual training from Lama Anagarika Govinda.\n\nIn 1986 Zotz received a Ph. D. from the University of Vienna for his doctoral thesis \"Zur Rezeption, Interpretation und Kritik des Buddhismus im deutschen Sprachraum.\" This dissertation investigates the influence of Buddhism on German philosophy, literature and culture during the Fin de siècle.\n\nZotz has been a lecturer of Buddhist philosophy at the University of Vienna. 1989 he moved to Japan where he was a professor and researcher at Ryukoku University and Otani University in Kyoto and at Rissho University in Tokyo for ten years. During the period in Japan he was influenced considerably by the Buddhologist Takamaro Shigaraki. In 1999 Zotz was appointed professor of philosophy at the University of Luxembourg. At that time he was also teaching at Saarland University.\n\nBesides his scholarly work, Volker Zotz’s European audience knows him as author and publicist. The volume, \"Buddha\", is the most popular book on its topic in German language, regularly reprinted and translated into several languages. Zotz is a leading member of the Arya Maitreya Mandala, founded by Lama Anagarika Govinda in 1933. In the early 1990s Zotz initiated a study centre called \"Komyoji\" in Austria which is an attempt at describing a cross-cultural philosophy of religion. Since 1994 Zotz has been the driving force behind many of Komyoji’s educational programs, such as workshops explaining various philosophical and theological topics. Volker Zotz is married to the Austrian writer and anthropologist Birgit Zotz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "827889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827889", "title": "White pride", "text": "White pride\n\nWhite pride or White power is an expression primarily used by white separatist, white nationalist, neo-Nazi and white supremacist organizations in order to signal racist or racialist viewpoints. It is also a slogan used by the prominent post-Ku Klux Klan group Stormfront and a term used to make racist/racialist viewpoints more palatable to the general public who may associate historical abuses with the terms \"white nationalist\", \"neo-Nazi\", and \"white supremacist\". However, \"white pride\" can also be associated with the many units of pride (such as \"black pride\") and is used as a counter-movement occasionally as a symbol to represent pride in Caucasians.\n\nSociologists Betty A. Dobratz and Stephanie L. Shanks-Meile identified \"White Power! White Pride!\" as \"a much-used chant of white separatist movement supporters\", and sociologist Mitch Berbrier has identified the use of this phrase as part of a \"new racist ... frame-transformation and frame-alignment by (a) consciously packaging a 'hate-free' racism, (b) developing strategies of equivalence and reversal–presenting whites as equivalent to ethnic and racial minorities, and (c) deploying ideas about 'love,' 'pride,' and 'heritage-preservation' to evidence both their putative lack of animosity toward others as well as their ethnic credentials.\" In a social psychology experiment that tested how white participants could be influenced to identify with white pride ideology, social psychologists framed white pride as follows:[P]eople who openly express White pride seem invariably to be those alienated from the mainstream culture—KKK members, skin-heads, and White supremacists—people trying to grab onto some basis for feeling good about themselves when conventional avenues such as successful careers and relationships are not working well for them. Consequently, the vast majority of people who avow White pride seem also to explicitly avow racism. Sociologists Monica McDermott and Frank L. Samson documented the rhetorical evolution of white pride movements thus, \"Because white pride has historically been predicated upon a denigration of nonwhites, the articulation of the duties and requirements of whiteness reflects a desire to correlate a conscious white identity with positive attributes.\"\n\nPolitical and social scientists commonly argue that the idea of \"white pride\" is an attempt to provide a clean or more palatable public face for white supremacy or white separatism and that it is an appeal to a larger audience in hopes of inciting more widespread racial violence. According to Joseph T. Roy of the Southern Poverty Law Center, white supremacists often circulate material on the internet and elsewhere that \"portrays the groups not as haters, but as simple white pride civic groups concerned with social ills\". Philosopher David Ingram argues that \"affirming 'black pride' is not equivalent to affirming 'white pride,' since the former—unlike the latter—is a defensive strategy aimed at rectifying a negative stereotype\". By contrast, then, \"affirmations of white pride—however thinly cloaked as affirmations of ethnic pride—serve to mask and perpetuate white privilege\". In the same vein, Professor of Education at University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, Cris Mayo, characterizes white pride as \"a politically distasteful goal, given that whiteness is not a personal or community identity, but has been a strategy to maintain inequities of privilege and power.\"\n\nPolitical scientists Carol M. Swain and Russell Nieli, in their text on white nationalism, identify the idea of \"white pride\" as a relatively new phenomenon in the United States. They argue that over the course of the 1990s, \"a new white pride, white protest, and white consciousness movement has developed in America\". They identify three contributing factors: an immigrant influx during the 1980s and 1990s, resentment over affirmative action policies, and the growth of the Internet as a tool for the expression and mobilization of grievances. According to Janet E. Helms, founding director of Boston College's Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture, a white person \"must become aware of his or her Whiteness, accept it as personally and socially significant ... Not in the sense of Klan members' 'white pride' but in the context of a commitment to a just society.\" Among people who strongly identify as white, research differentiates between a power cognizant group and a prideful group. The prideful group is more likely to devalue diversity and to show prejudice, while the power cognizant group is more likely to value diversity.\n\nThe slogan \"White Pride Worldwide\" appears on the logo of Stormfront, a website owned and operated by Don Black, who was formerly a Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. The North Georgia White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan describe themselves as \"a patriotic, White Christian revival movement dedicated to preserving the maintenance of White Pride and the rights of the White Race\". A 2002 study identified white pride as a motivation for racial hate crimes on a US college campus, while in a different study on internet racism, the slogan was identified as being part of an emerging transnationalist trend in white supremacist movements. The slogan was also documented to have been used in hate speech incidents at New York University, Vassar College, and Temple University, and it was a slogan used in posters put up by a white supremacist organization at dozens of US colleges. Certain Denver Nuggets jerseys were named \"white pride\" by Adidas and were listed as such on the team's website in 2016, after which internet outcry prompted the team to rename the jerseys. Similarly, a fitness room in River Falls, Wisconsin was renamed to avoid the racist connotations of it being referred to as the \"White Pride Fitness Room\". The slogan was chanted along with \"White Power\" by up to 100 neo-Nazis rallying in Manchester, United Kingdom in March 2015 and was the theme of a March 2016 event in Swansea and a March 2017 event in Edinburgh, all of which were organized by the National Front. In an exposé from \"The Week\", James Poulos warned that \"Europe is on track to rediscover what looks to us like a highly unsettling form of white pride.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12332205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12332205", "title": "William Hasker", "text": "William Hasker\n\nR. William Hasker () is an American philosopher and Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Huntington University. For many years he was editor of the prestigious journal \"Faith and Philosophy\". He has published many journal articles and books dealing with issues such as the mind–body problem, theodicy, and divine omniscience. He has argued for \"Open Theism\" and a view known as \"emergentism\" regarding the nature of the human person. Hasker regards the soul as an \"emergent\" substance, dependent upon the body for its existence.\n\nHasker received his Ph.D. in theology and philosophy of religion from The University of Edinburgh. His 1999 publication \"The Emergent Self\" discusses the philosophy of mind and attempts to establish that mind cannot be solely a material process but is also not completely distinct from its physical basis in the brain.\n\nHasker has published numerous works. A selection:\n"}
{"id": "37553459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37553459", "title": "Xuefeng Yicun", "text": "Xuefeng Yicun\n\nXuefeng Yicun (822-908) (; ; ) was a Chinese Chan-master who was influential during the Tang Dynasty. The Yunmen school and Fayan school originated with descendants of his lineage.\n\nAccording to the \"Wudeng Huiyuan\" (\"Compendium of Five Lamps\") Xuefeng Yicun was born in 822 in Nanan in ancient the district Quanzhou (now the province of Fujian). At age twelve he left home to live at Yujian Temple in Putian City.\n\nDuring the suppression of Buddhism (841-846) by Emperor Xuanzong Xuefeng Yicun was forced to leave the monastery. He continued his apprenticeship with a master Yuanzhao (Changzhao) on top of Furong (Lotus) Mountain in Hunan.\n\nWhen Emperor Xuanzong allowed for the restoration of Buddhism Xuefeng started hiking in the different regions of northern China. He received the full ordination of monks in 850 in the Baocha monastery in Youzhou (now Beijing) in the Hebei province.\n\nLater he went to Wuling (near the modern city of Changde in Hunan province), and became a student and dharma heir of Deshan Xuanjian (782-865).\n\nAfter his awakening Xuefeng returned to his former monastery on top of the Lotus Mountain, and then built a monastery on the top of Guangfu Xuefeng (Snow Summit) Top Xianggu (Elephant Bone). During the \"qianfu\" era (874-878) the monastery was officially recognized by the authorities. His teachings were supported by several officials in the Min region. As a result of his growing fame, Xuefeng was summoned to the court by palace officials. Xuefeng was awarded a purple robe and the title of \"Grand Master of the truly enlightened\" (\"zhenjue dashi\") (or Grand Master of the True Enlightenment) by Emperor Xizong.\n\nIn 891 Xuefeng went to travel again. In 892 he had joined the attendants of Yang Xingmi, the ruler of the newly established Wu (Jiangshi) regime, \"cleansing soldiers with dharma-rain and performing ceremonies at Chan monasteries\". This strengthened his reputation \"as a Buddhist prelate who administered to the needs of local rulers\". In 894 he returned to the Min region, where he was supported by Wang Xu (r.891-897). Wang Xu was followed by his brother Wang Shenzhi (r.897-925), under whose reign Buddhism became established in the Min region. Xuefeng had become a state prelate, who had a central role in promoting Buddhism, and who had to spread his influence throughout the entire region.\n\nThe \"Runei lun fo xinjin lu\" (\"Record of Discussions in the Palace regarding the Buddha Mind-seal\") records his conversations with Wang Shenzhi. It is \"highly reminiscent of earlied Chan precedents, particularly Bodhidharma's renunciation of the Liang emperor Wu recorded in the \"Platform sutra\". The records seem to be modelled according to the examples of Bodhidharma and Huineng.\n\nXuefeng's Chán-style was similar to that of Mazu Daoyi. The phrase \"Mind is Buddha\", used by Xuefeng, was \"allegedly introduced into Chan circles in the teaching attributed to Mazu Daoyi\". But the same teaching is also attributed to Shitou.\n\nXuefeng was one of the most influential Chán-teachers at the end of the Tang Dynasty, when \"a widely influential zen center formed around Xuefeng Yicun\". The loss of control by the Tang Dynasty, and the accompanying loss of support for Buddhist institutions, lead to a regionally based Chan of Xuefeng and his students.\n\nXuefeng Yicun was the teacher of Yunmen Wenyan (862 or 864–949 CE), who established the Yunmen school. Fayan Wenyi (885-958), Xuefeng's \"grand-disciple\", established the Fayan school.\n\nXuansha Shibei (WG Hsüan-sha Shih-pei) (835-908), a student of Xuefeng Yicun, is cited by Wumen Huikai (WG Wu-men Hui-k'ai, Jpn. Mumon Ekai) in explaining the title of his famous koan-collection, the \"Mumonkan\" (\"Gateless barrier\"), in explaining the title of this collection: \nThe \"Zutang ji\" (祖堂集 \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall), compiled in 952, the first document which mentions Linji Yixuan, was written to support the Xuefeng Yicun lineage. It pictures this lineage as heir to the legacy of Mazu and the Hongzhou-school, though Xuefeng Yicun's lineage is traced back to Shitou Xiqian (700-790). It was written by two students of Zhaoqing Wendeng (884-972), a dharma descendant of Xuefeng Yicun.\n\nXuefeng occurs in several koans:\n\n\n\n"}
