{"id": "8365698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8365698", "title": "2005 Ethiopian general election violence", "text": "2005 Ethiopian general election violence\n\nThe Ethiopian police massacre refers to the killing of innocent people by government forces during June and November 2005 which led to the deaths of 193 protesters and injury of 763 others, mostly in the capital Addis Ababa, following the May 2005 elections in Ethiopia. More than 30,000 people were detained by security forces following the election, most released in 2006.\n\nProtests of the results were supposedly led by the Coalition for Unity and Democracy (CUD), began on November 1, 2005, and have prompted more than 60,000 arrests. Live gunfire from government forces has been directed at protesters and bystanders. All the top opposition leaders were arrested, as was the mayor-elect of Addis Ababa.\n\nOn October 18, 2006 an independent report said Ethiopian police massacred 193 protesters. The information was leaked before the official independent report was handed to the parliament. The leak made by Ethiopian judge Wolde-Michael Meshesha found that the government had concealed the true extent of deaths at the hands of the police. Gemechu Megerssa, a member of the independent Inquiry commission, whom Justice Meshesha once worked with, criticized Justice Wolde-Michael's act, stating that by taking the report \"out of context and presenting it to the public to sensationalise the situation for his political end is highly unethical\".\n\nThe official report described by the parliament and the government gave exactly the same details as the leaked inquiry. It said that 200 people had been killed, including 6 policemen. Some 763 people were also injured. Police records showed 20,000 people were initially arrested during the anti-government protests. The commission members living in Addis Ababa also criticised the government:\n\nWe are not saying the government was totally clean. The government has a lot to be accountable for. The mentality of the police needs to be changed, and then we will be able to minimize those kinds of casualties in the future. Building of [democratic] institutions is required, but that is going to take time. [So] The government was not prepared to tackle violence like that which took place last year. They could have brought an alternative way of dispersing rioting crowds.\nBut, the Independent Inquiry's members added, Wolde-Michael's trip to Europe and reporting of information out of context was \"dishonest\" politics as well as insensitive to the process of developing Ethiopia's young democracy. The Commission said Ethiopians need to solve their problems themselves so that this kind of violence wouldn't recur. It encouraged Ethiopians who respect authority to work together, and directed the government to \"think seriously\" about changing the mentality of the police.\n\nDespite the post-election complications, the Carter Center, US Government and British MPs continued to praise the democratic process in Ethiopia, but have each demanded the release of CUD leaders. After meeting with some opposition parties, the British MPs stated that the Ethiopian government should stand firmly against those who try to use \"undemocratic and unconstitutional means\" to change government. The other top opposition parties, the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces (UEDF) and the United Ethiopian Democratic Party-Medhin Party (UEPD-Medhin), are working with the government for negotiations on the democratic process. Opposition parties are still represented in the Ethiopian Parliament, where representatives from Oromia State hold most positions, and representatives from Amhara State hold the second most positions, in correlation with the comparative population of the corresponding states. Various opposition parties including the UEDF, UEPD-Medhin, Somali People's Democratic Party, EDL, Gambela People's Democratic Movement, All Ethiopian Unity Party, Oromo Federalist Democratic Movement and the Benishangul-Gumuz People's Democratic Unity Front hold positions in the parliament.\n\nUntil June 2007, many of the main opposition party's (CUD) leaders were detained for an alleged attempt to overthrow the government and initiating the post election violence. All of these charges are denied by CUD leadership both in Ethiopia and internationally, and the European Union advocated for the political prisoners to be released after a speedy trial. Some of these elected CUD officials endured very harsh conditions inside Ethiopia's poorly maintained prisons and they are at risk of various medical complications. As a result of the violence after the elections, many thousands were arrested and imprisoned. Even though the vast majority have been freed, some still remain in prison. Up to the end of 2005, around 8,000 Ethiopian rioters were freed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2588150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2588150", "title": "Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa", "text": "Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa\n\nAbd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr (عبد العزيز بن موسى) was the first governor of Al-Andalus, in modern-day Spain and Portugal. He was the son of Musa ibn Nusayr, the governor of Ifriqiya. ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr had a long history of political and military involvement along with his father.\n\n‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr accompanied his father in 712 to aid the Berber general, Tariq, in the Umayyad conquest of Hispania. It has been speculated that Musa ibn Nusayr and his son, both Arabs, did not want the glory of conquest to be claimed by a Berber. The conquest of the area was progressing smoothly under Tariq, Musa ibn Nusayr and ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr. With the success of the conquest apparent, Tariq and Musa ibn Nusayr were called back to Syria by the Umayyad caliph, Sulayman, in 714. ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr was given the governorship of Al-Andalus by his father. Musa ibn Nusayr, upon his return to Damascus, fell into disfavour with the caliph and ended his days in Medina as an “old and broken man.” ‘Musa ibn Nusayr outlived his son, ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa.\n\n‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr chose the town of Seville as his capital city. Seville, located in the modern day province of Andalucía in southern Spain on the Guadalquivir River. Under ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr’s leadership after the departure of his father and Tariq, Islamic power, in what came to be known as Al-Andalus, expanded into modern day Portugal in the west and the sub-Pyrenean regions in the north. In one of the newly conquered lands, ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr signed a peace treaty with the Visigothic lord of Murcia, Theudimer. His name in Arabic is Tudmir. The treaty, known as the Treaty of Tudmir, gave Visigothic Christians the right to continue to practise their religion, as long as they paid a special tax and remained loyal to their Muslim overlords.\n\n‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr remained in power and even married the widow Egilon, the wife of the last Visigothic king, Roderic. Egilon took the name Umm ‘Asim upon her marriage and conversion to Islam. In his marriage to Egilon, ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr set a trend of espousing local Visigothic women, due to the lack of Arab and Berber women. This lack was because Arab and Berber women did not accompany the army into Al-Andalus at the beginning of the conquest of Hispania. The practice of taking conquered women as wives almost became a general rule for conquering Muslim leaders. Egilon’s influence over ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr was not common. Some felt that she held too much influence and sway over ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr. Egilon coaxed ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr to wear a crown, and lower entrance ways to promote veneration of him and people bowing to him. Egilon even had ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr make the entrance to his audience chamber lower, so that upon entering, he would be bowing to her. These links to the Visigothic royalty and the influence of Egilon led to the misconception and rumors that ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr had converted to Christianity. These rumours even reached the Umayyad Caliph Sulaymān in Damascus. Troubled by these rumours, the caliph ordered ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr to be killed. It is very likely, however, that these were rumours instigated at the behest of the hostile faction led by Habib ibn Abi Ubaidah Al-Fihri, which eventually killed Abdul-Aziz. Certainly Abdul-Aziz had a reputation as a righteous Muslim before these rumours that did not support this theory.\n\nSources differ on the year, but ‘Abd al-Aziz Ibn Musa ibn Nusayr was assassinated by Ziyad ibn ‘Udhra al-Balawi on order of the Caliph Sulayman. However, Ibn Khaldun reports the order was received and carried out by Habib ibn Abi Obeida al-Fihri The caliph feared that he wanted to establish his own personal monarchy in Al-Andalus, separate from the Umayyad caliphate based in Damascus. Dates of his assassination vary between the years 715, 716, or 718 . ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa was beheaded in the monastery of Santa Rufina, used during the time as a mosque. After his death, ‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa’s head was brought to Damascus and displayed publicly to an audience where the caliph knew that his father, Ibn Musa ibn Nusayr, was in attendance.\n\n‘Abd al-Aziz ibn Musa ibn Nusayr was succeeded by his cousin, Ayyub ibn Habib al-Lakhmi, who is thought to have played a role in his assassination. His tenure as governor did not last long and for a period of forty years following his assassination, Al-Andalus was filled with chaos and turmoil. Rival Arab factions continuously fought to gain power, and also to expand Islamic control in the area. Governors were appointed or chosen, but there were often deposed by rival groups or by the Umayyad caliph in Damascus. This pattern continued at least until 756, when an independent Umayyad emirate was established in Córdoba. However, Abd-ar-Rahman I still found much resistance in Al-Andalus (Toledo, Zaragoza, Barcelona ... ) and had to struggle still 25 years for a total mastery over the territory. Islamic power remained in the region until 1492, when Ferdinand and Isabella conquered the Islamic kingdom of Granada.\n"}
{"id": "45614716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45614716", "title": "Abdul Rahman Hilmi", "text": "Abdul Rahman Hilmi\n\nAbdul Rahman Hilmi (died 1805) was a Turkish calligrapher. \n\nAbddul Rahman Hilmi was pupil of Egrikapili Mehmed Rasim Efendi. He was an adroit calligrapher, known for the firmness of his writing. He spent most of life in Hagia Sophia school in Istanbul studying calligraphy and training students. \n\nHilmi was remembered as a very moral and praiseworthy person. He died in 1220/1805 and was buried in Scutari, in the vicinity of another great calligrapher, Sheikh Hamdullah.\n\n"}
{"id": "6198910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6198910", "title": "Adalard of Paris", "text": "Adalard of Paris\n\nAdalard (or Adalhard) of Paris (c. 830 – 890) was the eighth Count of Paris and a Count palatine. He was the son of Wulfhard of Flavigny and Suzanne of Paris, a daughter of Beggo, Count of Toulouse. His brother Hilduin the Young was the abbot of Saint-Denis. His brother Wulgrin I of Angoulême was appointed Count of Angoulême and Périgord. Adalard followed his uncle Leuthard II. \n\nAdalard had two children: son named Wulfhard and daughter called Adelaide of Paris (850 – 10 November 901). She married King Louis II of France and had two children with him.\n"}
{"id": "1556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1556", "title": "Agrippina the Elder", "text": "Agrippina the Elder\n\nAgrippina the Elder (Latin:\"Vipsania Agrippina\"; Classical Latin: , c. 14 BC – AD 33), commonly referred to as \"Agrippina the Elder\" (Latin: \"Agrippina Maior\"), was a prominent member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. She was born in c. 14 BC the daughter of Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, a close supporter of Rome's first emperor Augustus, and Augustus' daughter Julia the Elder. At the time of her birth, her brothers Lucius and Gaius were the adoptive sons of Augustus and were his heirs until their deaths in AD 2 and 4, respectively. Following their deaths, her cousin Germanicus was made the adoptive son of Tiberius as part of Augustus' succession scheme in the adoptions of AD 4 in which Tiberius was adopted by Augustus. As a corollary to the adoption, Agrippina was wed to Germanicus in order to bring him closer to the Julian family.\n\nShe is known to have traveled with him throughout his career, taking her children everywhere they went. In AD 14, Germanicus was deployed in Gaul as governor and general. While there, the late Augustus sent her son Gaius to her unspecified location. She liked to dress him in a little soldiers' outfit complete with boots for which Gaius earned the nickname \"Caligula\" (\"little boots\"). After three years in Gaul they returned to Rome and her husband was awarded a triumph on 26 May AD 17 to commemorate his victories. The following year, Germanicus was sent to govern over the eastern provinces. While Germanicus was active in his administration, the governor of Syria Gnaeus Calpurnius Piso began feuding with him. During the feud, her husband died of illness on 10 October AD 19.\n\nGermanicus was cremated in Antioch and she transported his ashes to Rome where they were interred at the Mausoleum of Augustus. Agrippina was vocal in claiming her husband was murdered to promote Tiberius' son Drusus Julius Caesar (\"Drusus the Younger\") as heir. Following the model of her grandmother Livia, she spent the time following Germanicus' death supporting the cause of her sons Nero and Drusus Caesar. This put her and her sons at odds with the powerful Praetorian prefect Lucius Aelius Sejanus who would begin eliminating their supporters with accusations of treason and sexual misconduct in AD 26. Her family's rivalry with Sejanus would culminate with her and Nero's exile in AD 29. Nero was exiled to Pontia and she was exiled to the island of Pandateria, where she would remain until her death by starvation in AD 33.\n\nFollowing the Roman custom of parents and children sharing the same nomen and cognomen, women in the same family would often share the same name. Accordingly, Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa had many relatives who shared the name \"Vipsania Agrippina\". To distinguish Marcus Agrippa's daughter from his granddaughter, historians refer to his daughter as Latin \"Agrippina Maior\", literally \"Agrippina the Elder\". Likewise, Agrippina's daughter is referred to as \"Agrippina Minor\", literally \"Agrippina the Younger\". Like her father, Agrippina the Elder avoided her cognomen and was never called \"Vipsania\".\n\nMarcus Vipsanius Agrippa was an early supporter of Augustus (then \"Octavius\") during the Final War of the Roman Republic that ensued as a result of the assassination of Julius Caesar in 44 BC. His father, Lucius Vipsanius Agrippa, was a key general in Augustus' armies, commanding troops in pivotal battles against Mark Antony and Sextus Pompeius. From early in the emperor's reign, Agrippa was trusted to handle affairs in the eastern provinces and was even given the signet ring of Augustus, who appeared to be on his deathbed in 23BC, a sign that he would become \"princeps\" were Augustus to die. It is probable that he was to rule until the emperor's nephew, Marcus Claudius Marcellus, came of age. However, Marcellus died that year of an illness that became an epidemic in Rome.\n\nNow, with Marcellus dead, Augustus arranged for the marriage of Agrippa to his daughter Julia the Elder, who was previously the wife of Marcellus. Agrippa was given \"tribunicia potestas\" (\"the tribunician power\") in 18 BC, a power that only the emperor and his immediate heir could hope to attain. The tribunician power allowed him to control the Senate, and it was first given to Julius Caesar. Agrippa acted as tribune in the Senate to pass important legislation and, though he lacked some of the emperor's power and authority, he was approaching the position of co-regent.\n\nAfter the birth of Agrippa's second son, Lucius, in 17 BC, Lucius and his brother Gaius were adopted together by Augustus. Around the time of their adoption in the summer, Augustus held the fifth ever \"Ludi Saeculares\" (\"Secular Games\"). Cassius Dio says the adoption of the boys coupled with the games served to introduce a new era of peace – the \"Pax Augusta\". It is not known what Agrippa thought of their adoption; however, following their adoption, Agrippa was dispatched to govern the eastern provinces, bringing his family with him.\n\nAgrippina was born in 14 BC to Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa and Julia the Elder, before their return to Rome in 13 BC. She had five siblings: a half-sister Vipsania Agrippina, three brothers; Gaius, Lucius, and Postumus Agrippa (all were adopted by Augustus; Gaius and Lucius were adopted together following Lucius' birth in 17 BC; Postumus in AD 4), and a sister who shared the same mother, Julia the Younger.\n\nShe was a prominent member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. On her mother's side, she was the younger granddaughter of Augustus. She was the sister-in-law of Tiberius by her half-sister's marriage to him, and of Claudius, the brother of her husband Germanicus. Her son Gaius, better known as \"Caligula\", would be the fourth emperor, and her grandson Nero would be the last emperor of the dynasty.\n\nIn 13 BC, her father returned to Rome and was promptly sent to Pannonia to suppress a rebellion. Agrippa arrived there that winter (in 12 BC), but the Pannonians gave up that same year. Agrippa returned to Campania in Italy, where he fell ill and died soon after. After her father's death, she spent the rest of her childhood in Augustus' household where access to her was strictly controlled.\n\nSome of the currency issued in 13–12 BC, the \"aurei\" and \"denarii\", make it clear that her brothers Gaius and Lucius were Augustus' intended heirs. Their father was no longer available to assume the reigns of power if the Emperor were to die, and Augustus had to make it clear who his intended heirs were in case anything should happen. Lucius' and Gaius' military and political careers would steadily advance until their deaths in AD 2 and 4, respectively.\n\nThe death of her brothers meant that Augustus had to find other heirs. Although he initially considered Agrippina's second cousin Germanicus a potential heir for a time, Livia convinced Augustus to adopt Tiberius, Livia's son from her first marriage with Tiberius Claudius Nero. Although Augustus adopted Tiberius, it was on condition that Tiberius first adopt Germanicus so that Germanicus would become second in the line of succession. It was a corollary to the adoption, probably in the next year, that Agrippina was married to Germanicus.\n\nBy her husband Germanicus, she had nine children: Nero Julius Caesar, Drusus Julius Caesar, Tiberius Julius Caesar, a child of unknown name (normally referenced as \"Ignotus\"), Gaius the Elder, the Emperor Caligula (Gaius the Younger), the empress Agrippina the Younger, Julia Drusilla, and Julia Livilla. Only six of his children came of age; Tiberius and the Ignotus died as infants, and Gaius the Elder in his early childhood.\n\nHer husband's career in the military began in AD 6, with the Batonian War in Pannonia and Dalmatia. Throughout Germanicus' military career, Agrippina is known to have traveled with her husband and their children. Germanicus' career advanced steadily as he advanced in ranks following the \"cursus honorum\" until, in AD 12, he was made consul. The following year, he was given command over Gaul and the forces on the Rhine, totaling eight legions.\n\nOn 18 May AD 14, her one-year-old son Gaius was sent by Augustus from Rome to join her in Gaul. She was pregnant at the time and, while Germanicus was collecting taxes across Gaul, she remained at an unspecified separate location, presumably for her safety. Augustus sent her a letter with her son's party, which read:\nLater that year, on 19 August, Augustus died while away in Campania. As a result, Tiberius was made \"princeps\". While Germanicus was administering the oath of fealty to Tiberius, a mutiny began among the forces on the Rhine. During the mutiny, Agrippina brought out their sixth child, Gaius, and made preparations to take him away to a safer town nearby. He was in a full army outfit including the legionary hobnailed boots (\"caligae\"). These military-booties earned Gaius the nickname \"Caligula\" (lit. \"little boots\"), and garnered sympathy for Agrippina and the child among the soldiery. Tacitus attributes her actions as having quelled the mutiny (Tacitus, \"Annals\" 1.40–4).\n\nOnce the mutiny was put to an end, Germanicus allowed the soldiers to deal with the ringleaders, which they did with brutal severity. He then led them against the Germanic tribes, perhaps in an effort to prevent future mutiny. Germanicus would remain in Gaul fighting against the Germanic tribes until AD 16, at which time he was recalled to Rome by Tiberius. His campaigns won him much renown among the Roman people, and he was awarded a triumph on 26 May AD 17.\n\nIn AD 18, Agrippina left for the eastern provinces with her family. Germanicus was sent the east to govern the provinces, the same assignment her father was given years earlier. Agrippina was pregnant on their journey east and, on the way to Syria, she gave birth to her youngest daughter Julia Livilla on the island of Lesbos. Inscriptions celebrating her fertility have been found on the island.\n\nTiberius sent Gnaeus Calpurnius Piso to assist her husband, naming him governor of Syria. During their time there, Germanicus was active in his administration of the eastern regions. Piso did not get along well with Germanicus and their relationship only got worse. In AD 19, Germanicus ordered Piso to leave the province, which Piso began to do. On his way back to Rome, Piso stopped at the island of Kos off the coast of Syria. Around that time Germanicus fell ill and he died on 10 October AD 19 at Antioch. Rumours spread of Piso poisoning her husband on the emperor's orders.\n\nAfter Germanicus' cremation in the forum of Antioch, Agrippina personally carried the ashes of her husband to Rome. The transportation of the ashes witnessed national mourning. She landed at the port of Brundisium in southern Italy where she was met with huge crowds of sympathizers. From Brundisium, a praetorian escort was provided for her by the emperor in respect to her rank as the wife of a governor-general. As she passed each town, the people and local magistrates came out to show their respect. Drusus the Younger (son of Tiberius), Claudius, and the consuls journeyed to join the procession as well. Once she made it to Rome, her husband's ashes were interred at the Mausoleum of Augustus. Tiberius and Livia did not make an appearance.\n\nHer marriage to Germanicus had served to unite the imperial family. Agrippina may have suspected Tiberius' involvement in the death of her husband and, with Germanicus dead, she no longer had any familial ties to the emperor. Historian Richard Alston says it is likely that either Tiberius or Livia were behind the exile of Agrippina's half-sister and the death of Postumus. He notes the death of Agrippina's mother, who starved herself to death amidst her exile in AD 14, linking her death to Tiberius' disdain for her.\n\nAgrippina was vocal about her feelings claiming that Germanicus was murdered to promote Drusus the Younger as Tiberius' heir, and worried that the birth of the Younger Drusus' twin sons would displace her own sons in the line of succession. Her fears proved to be unfounded, with her son Nero receiving the \"toga virilis\" (\"toga of manhood\") from Tiberius and the Younger Drusus on 7 June AD 20. Further, Nero was promised the office of quaestor five years before the ordinary age and was wed to Tiberius' granddaughter Julia. Agrippina's second oldest son Drusus was given similar honors and was also promised the office of quaestor in advance when he reached his fourteenth year in AD 23.\n\nAt about this time, Tiberius' Praetorian Prefect Sejanus was becoming powerful in Rome and began feuding with Drusus the Younger. While the exact causes of the feud are unknown, it ended when the Younger Drusus died of seemingly natural causes on 14 September AD 23. After the death of Tiberius' son, Agrippina wanted to advance the careers of her sons, who were all potential heirs for Tiberius. To achieve this, Agrippina presented the Great Cameo of France to Tiberius. It was a personalized gift that positioned the family of Germanicus around the emperor. The work was designed to convince Tiberius to choose her children as his heirs. It is likely she was the one who commissioned the Great Cameo of France.\n\nUltimately, the death of Tiberius' son elevated her own children to the position of heirs. Her sons were the logical choice, because they were the sons of Germanicus and Tiberius' grandsons were too young. Nero was becoming popular in the Senate due in part, Tacitus says, to his resemblance with his father. The rise of her children was threatening to Sejanus' position. Resultantly, Sejanus began spreading rumors about Agrippina in the imperial court. The coming years were marked with increasing hostility between Sejanus and Agrippina and her sons. This effectively caused factions to rise in the aristocracy between her family and Sejanus.\n\nOn New Year's Day, AD 24, Sejanus had the priests and magistrates add prayers for the health of Nero and Drusus in addition to those normally offered to the emperor on that day. Tiberius was not happy with this and he voiced his displeasure in the Senate. In addition, he questioned the priests of the Palatine. Some of the priests who offered the prayers were relatives of Agrippina and Germanicus. This made Tiberius suspicious of her and marked a change in his attitude toward her and her older sons, but not Caligula.\n\nIn AD 25, Sejanus requested Livilla's hand in marriage. Livilla was a niece of the emperor, which would have made him a member of the imperial family. While this did make his ambitions clear, his request was denied. The loss may have been huge for Sejanus had the dissensions in the imperial household not been deteriorating. Relations were so bad that Agrippina refused to eat at Tiberius' dinner parties for fear of being poisoned. She also asked Tiberius if she could be allowed to remarry, which he also refused. \n\nIf either of them were allowed to remarry it would have threatened the line of succession that Tiberius was comfortable with. By refusing Sejanus' request, Tiberius made it clear he was content with the children of Germanicus and his own grandchildren being his successors. Had Sejanus married Livilla, their children would have provided another line of possible successors. The implication of Agrippina's request was that she needed a man from outside the imperial family to serve as protector and step-father of possible imperial heirs, a powerful position. It was also an implied reprimand: Tiberius was meant to be the guardian of the imperial family.\n\nTiberius was in a tough position. He was faced with a conflict between his family and his friend. His solution was surprising. In AD 26, left Rome altogether and retired to the island of Capri in the Bay of Naples. He cut himself off from the factions altogether and abandoned politics. He left Rome in the care of Sejanus. This allowed Sejanus to freely attack his rivals.\n\nWith Tiberius away from Rome, the city would see a rise of politically motivated trials on the part of Sejanus and his supporters against Agrippina and her associates. Many of her friends and associates were subsequently accused of \"maiestas\" (\"treason\") by the growing number of accusers. It was also common to see charges of sexual misconduct and corruption. In AD 27, Agrippina found herself placed under house arrest in her suburban villa outside Herculaneum.\n\nIn AD 28, the Senate voted that altars to \"Clementia\" (mercy) and \"Amicitia\" (friendship) be raised. At that time, \"Clementia\" was considered a virtue of the ruling class, for only the powerful could give clemency. The altar of \"Amicitia\" was flanked by statues of Sejanus and Tiberius. By this time, his association with Tiberius was such that there were those in Roman society who erected statues in his honor and gave prayers and sacrifices in his honor. Sejanus' birthday was honored as if he were a member of the imperial family. According to Richard Alston, \"Sejanus' association with Tiberius must have at least indicated to the people that he would be further elevated.\"\n\nSejanus did not begin his final attack on Agrippina until after the death of Livia in AD 29. Tacitus reports a letter being sent to the Senate from Tiberius denouncing Agrippina for her arrogance and prideful attitude, and Nero for engaging in shameful sexual activities. The Senate would not begin highly unpopular prosecutions against her or her son until it received clear instructions from Tiberius to do so. Despite public outcry, Agrippina and Nero were declared public enemies (\"hostes\") following a repeat of the accusations by the emperor. They were both exiled; Nero to Pontia where he was killed or encouraged to commit suicide in AD 31, and Agrippina to the island of Pandateria (the same place her mother was exiled to). \n\nSuetonius says that while on the island of Pandateria, she lost an eye when she was beaten by a centurion. She would remain on the island until her death in AD 33. Accounts of her death vary. She is said to have died from starvation, but it is not certain whether or not it was self-imposed. Tacitus says food was withheld from her in an effort to make her death seem like a suicide.\n\nHer son Drusus was later also exiled on charges of sexual misdemeanors. Sejanus remained powerful until his sudden downfall and summary execution in October AD 31, just after the death of Nero, the exact cause for which remains unclear. Alston suggests that Sejanus may have been acting in Tiberius' favor to remove Germanicus' family from power, noting that Agrippina and Nero's brother Drusus were left in exile even after Sejanus' death.\n\nThe deaths of Agrippina's older sons elevated her youngest son Caligula to the position of successor and he became \"princeps\" when Tiberius died in AD 37. Drusus the Younger's son Tiberius Gemellus was summoned to Capri by his father Tiberius, where he and Caligula were made joint-heirs. When Caligula assumed power he made Gemellus his adopted son, but Caligula soon had Gemellus killed for plotting against him.\n\nAfter he became emperor, Caligula took on the role of a dutiful son and brother in a public show of \"pietas\" (\"piety\"). He went out to the islands of Pontia and Pandateria in order to recover the remains of Agrippina and Nero. It was not easy to recover Nero's bones as they were scattered and buried. Moreover, he had a stormy passage; however, the difficulty in his task made his devotion seem even greater. The ashes were brought to Ostia, from where they were carried up the Tiber and brought to the Campus Martius, from where equestrians placed them on briers to join the ashes of Germanicus in the mausoleum of Augustus. The move was reminiscent of when Agrippina carried the ashes of her husband just over 17 years earlier. Agrippina's funerary urn still survives ().\n\nAgrippina was fiercely independent, a trait she shared with her mother. Dio described her as having ambitions to match her pedigree. However, Anthony Barrett notes that Agrippina was fully aware that a woman in ancient Rome could not hold power in her own right. Instead, Agrippina followed the model of Livia in promoting the careers of her children.\n\nShe and her daughter, Agrippina the Younger, are both described as being equally ambitious for their sons. Whereas the elder Agrippina's son failed to become emperor, the younger Agrippina's son, also named Nero, succeeds. In a contrast, Tacitus has Agrippina the Elder merely standing on a bridge waving the soldiers passing by, whereas her daughter eclipses her by presiding over a military tribunal and accepting gifts from foreign ambassadors.\n\nTacitus also records serious tension between Agrippina and Livia. He describes Livia as having visited \"stepmotherly provocations\" on Agrippina. He says of Agrippina: \"were it not that through her moral integrity and love for her husband she converted an otherwise ungovernable temper to the good\" (Tacitus, \"Annals\" 1.33). Despite being sympathetic to her as a victim of imperial oppression, he uses expressions like \"excitable\", \"arrogant\", \"proud\", \"fierce\", \"obstinate\", and \"ambitious\" to describe Agrippina. His comments are echoed by other sources. \n\nHistorian Lindsay Powell says Agrippina enjoyed a normal marriage and continued to show her devotion to Germanicus after his death. He says she was regarded by the Roman people as, quoting Tacitus, \"the glory of the country, the sole surviving offspring of Augustus, the solitary example of the good old times.\"\n\nAlston cautions against accepting the stories of Agrippina's feud with Sejanus at face value, as these accounts reflect a tradition hostile to Tiberius and Sejnaus. They may have been circulated by Agrippina's supporters or they may have emerged after Sejanus' fall in AD 31. He adds: \"These stories are plausible, though not certain to be true.\"\n\nAugustus was proud of Agrippina. Suetonius claims that Augustus wrote her a letter praising her intellect and directing her education. Suetonius also records that Augustus, who held strict views on self-restraint and respectable speech, cautioned Agrippina not to speak \"offensively\". When she next appears, she is being chastised by Tiberius in Greek for making irritating remarks, and the tone of the Greek verse quoted by Tiberius suggests that she should have heeded the advice of her grandfather not to speak offensively.\n\nThe \"Annals\" of Tacitus is a history of the Julio-Claudian dynasty beginning with the death of Augustus. In it, he portrays women as having a profound influence on politics. The women of the imperial family in particular are depicted by Tacitus as having a notable prominence in the public sphere as well as possessing a ferocity and ambition with which they pursue it. Tacitus presents them as living longer than the imperial men and thus being more wise as they advance in age. Among the most broad of his portrayals is that of Agrippina. He emphasizes their role in connecting genetically back to Augustus, a significant factor in the marriages of the emperors and princes of the dynasty. The Annals repeatedly has Agrippina competing for influence with Tacitus simply because she is related to Augustus biologically.\n\nTacitus presents Agrippina as being kindred to aristocratic males, and has her reversing gender roles, which showcases her assumption of male \"auctoritas\" (\"authority\") with metaphors of her dressing and undressing. In an example of Agrippina assuming \"auctoritas\", he says: \n\nUsing the above epithet, \"(femina) ingens animi\" (\"..[a woman], great for her courage\"), he assigns a haughty attitude to Agrippina that compels her to explore the affairs of men. He records her as having reversed the natural order of things when she quelled the mutiny of the Rhine in AD 14. In so doing, he describes her as having usurped her husband's power, a power rightfully belonging only to a general.\n\nPortraits of Roman women from the Julio-Claudian dynasty display a freer hair treatment then those of traditional Roman men and are more keen on the sensitivity of recording on different textures. These changes in style served to make reproducing them more popular in the mid-first-century AD. Reproductions of her image would continue to be made into that period. In the portrait, she is given a youthful face despite the fact that she lived to middle age. Agrippina's hair is a mass of curls that covers both sides of her head and is long going down to her shoulders. Her portraiture can be contrasted with that of Livia who had a more austere Augustan hairstyle.\n\nThere are three different periods during the first-century AD when portraits were created for Agrippina: at the time of her marriage to Germanicus (which made her the mother of a potential emperor); when her son Caligula came into power in AD 37, and collected her ashes from the island of Pandateria for relocation to the Mausoleum of Augustus; and at the time of Claudius' marriage to Antonia Minor, who wanted to connect himself to the lineage of Augustus by evoking Agrippina's image. Coins and inscriptions cannot act as a method of discerning her age, because her hairstyle remains unchanged in all the representations.\n\nThe easiest phase of portraits to identify are those dating to the time of Caligula, when a fair abundance of coins were minted with an image of his mother on them. It is a posthumous portrait of her with idealized features. In the phase following Claudius' marriage, her features are made to more closely resemble those of her daughter. The goal was to strengthen Agrippina the Younger's connection with her mother. Finally, the portraits of her dating to the time of Tiberius are still idealized, but not as much as those from the period of Caligula's reign. Images of Agrippina from this period are the most lifelike.\n\nAgrippina has been depicted in many works of art. The most notable of which include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35249994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35249994", "title": "Albert II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard", "text": "Albert II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard\n\nAlbert II, Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard (before 1400 – between 11 February 1421 and 4 October 1423) was Duke of Mecklenburg-Stargard and Lord of Neubrandenburg, Lordship of Stargard, Strelitz and Wesenberg from 1417 until his death.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Ulrich I and his wife Margeret, the daughter of the Swantibor III of Pomerania-Stettin.\n\nAlbert II was probably born before 1400 and ruled. When his father died in 1417, he and his younger brother Henry inherited the Duchy of Mecklenburg-Stargard. Since they were minors, they stood under guardianship.\n\nAlbert is last mentioned as alive in a document dated 11 February 1421. In a document dated 4 October 1423, his younger brother is the sole Duke.\n\nAlbert was not married and probably had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "43015953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43015953", "title": "Aleksandr Uspensky", "text": "Aleksandr Uspensky\n\nAleksandr Ivanovich Uspensky (; 1902 – January 28, 1940) was a senior leader of the Cheka, the GPU and the NKVD. Uspensky was both a perpetrator and a victim of the Great Purge.\n\nUspensky was born on February 14 or February 27, 1902, in a family of forestry officials and made his career during the Russian Civil War. In August 1920, he joined the Cheka and in September the same year, he also became a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. On January 25, 1938, Uspensky became the Commissar of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. During this time, Uspensky led the arrest of about 36,000 people. However, during the time of the Great Purge, Uspensky himself came into the firing line. In the fall of 1938, he was summoned to Moscow. Since he assumed he would be arrested there (possibly warned by Nikolai Yezhov), Uspensky deserted on November 14, 1938, faked his own suicide and took refuge in the Ural Mountains. However, he was tracked down and arrested on April 15, 1939. On January 27, 1940, he was sentenced to death and executed the next day. Unlike many other senior officials and officers, Uspensky was not subsequently rehabilitated.\n"}
{"id": "40797886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40797886", "title": "Arapaima leptosoma", "text": "Arapaima leptosoma\n\nArapaima leptosoma is a species of freshwater fish endemic to near the confluence of the Solimões and Purus Rivers in Amazonas, Brazil. Like other members of the genus \"Arapaima\", this fish can breathe air. It has a deep caudal peduncle relative to other species in its genus. It is the first new member of \"Arapaima\" to be described since 1847. Member species of the genus \"Arapaima\" are the largest freshwater fish in South America.\n"}
{"id": "35685476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35685476", "title": "Arvid Kurck", "text": "Arvid Kurck\n\nArvid Kurck (also known as Arvid Kurki, born 1464 in Vesilahti, died 22 July 1522 in Öregrund) was the Roman Catholic Bishop of Turku from 1510 to 1522. He was a member of the Finnish noble family Kurki of Laukko. Kurck is considered to be the last truly Catholic bishop of Finland since his successors started to promote the Reformation.\n\nArvid Kurck studied at the University of Paris in 1480s. He was a supporter of Sten Sture the Younger who was against the re-establishment of Kalmar Union. 1520 Kurck survived the Stockholm Bloodbath as he did not visit the coronation of Christian II. Two years later Kurck took part on the uprising against King Christian. As the rebellions were defeated, Kurck fled to Sweden and was drowned in a shipwreck near the town of Öregrund.\n\n"}
{"id": "9642968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9642968", "title": "Ashina Helu", "text": "Ashina Helu\n\nIshbara Khagan (Old Turkic: 𐰃𐱁𐰉𐰺𐰀𐰴𐰍𐰣, Ϊšbara qaγan, , personal name Ashina Helu - ) (ruled 651–658) was the last khagan of the Western Turkic Khaganate. \n\nHis Turkic name became a debate among scholars. Gömeç argued his name should be read as \"Ulug\" meaning \"Great\", meanwhile Gumilov proposed \"Hallıg\" which would mean \"Elevated\". Von Gabain proposed name \"Kullıg\" (slave owner). Kapusuzoğlu proposed \"Kutlug\" (Blessed) as alternative name transcription.\n\nHis parentage is uncertain. According to Gumilov his father was Böri Shad, however Chavannes attributes him to be a son of Irbis Seguy. He was awarded with the title shad by Dulu khagan in 633 and oppointed to govern certain tribes including Chuye, Qarluq, Nushibi. In 646 he rose against Irbis Seguy only to be defeated by him. He fled to China in 25 April 648 and had served the Tang dynasty as a general stationed in Mohe (莫賀) city in Gansu. \n\nHowever he soon started to plan to assert independence using Taizong's death in 649. Qiao Baoming (橋寶明) personal staff of Gaozong tried to avert it by ordering him to deliver his son Ashina Xiyun (阿史那咥運) to serve in palace guard. Xiyun served for a while before returning to Helu again and encouraging him to attack Irbis Dulu khagan. \n\nAfter a while he set up his horde near modern Shuanghe, began to receive submissions. According to Tongjian firstly Dulu tribe chiefs who were titled as \"čor\", namely Chumukun chief Lü (處木昆律啜), Huluwu chief Jue (胡祿居闕啜), Turgesh chief Heluoshi (突騎施賀邏施啜), Shunishi chief Chupan (鼠尼施處半啜) submitted. Huluwu chief was also a son-in-law to Helu. Nushibi tribal chiefs who were titled \"irkin\" also submitted - Axijie chief Kül (阿悉結闕俟斤), Geshu chief Kül (哥舒闕俟斤), Basaigan chief Tong Ishbara (拔塞幹暾沙鉢俟斤), Axijie chief Nishu (阿悉結泥孰俟斤) another Geshu chief Chupan (哥舒處半俟斤). Ashina Xiyun was appointed crown prince with the title Bagatur Yabgu. \n\nAfter formally reasserting independence from Tang, he commanded raids to Jin Ling (金嶺城, near modern Shanshan, Xinjiang) and Pulei (蒲類縣). Angered Gaozong stripped him of Chinese titles and ordered Qibi Heli and Liang Jianfang (梁建方) to secure border areas.\n\nConflicts also began in southern border when Zhenzhu yabgu (son of Yukuk Shad) started major incursions to Western Tujue territory. Later Zhenzhu contacted Tang to receive soldiers and requested to be created a qaghan in 655. Yuan Lichen (元礼臣) was ordered by Gaozong to visit Zhenzhu in 8 November 656 to create him khagan, but he was stopped by Helu's soldiers near Suyab, causing Zhenzhu to lose much prestige.\n\nIn 657 Emperor Gaozong of Tang started the Conquest of the Western Turks. General Su Dingfang was appointed to be leading commander during whole operation. Chumukun tribe was first to lose whose chief Lantulu (懶獨祿) submitted. Tang army defeated Ishbara at the Battle of Irtysh River. However he fled to Chach with his son Ashina Xiyun and a noble retainer Xuyan. However he was soon handed over to Xiao Siya (萧嗣业) by Chach ruler Yixian Tarkhan. \n\nAfter being captured he reportedly told Xiao Siya:\n\nEmperor Gaozong spared him after 15 days and he lived out his days at the Tang capital Chang'an. He was buried near Illig Qaghan's memorial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3381997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3381997", "title": "Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre", "text": "Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre\n\nAustralian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC) is an Australian government financial intelligence agency set up to monitor financial transactions to identify money laundering, organised crime, tax evasion, welfare fraud and terrorism. AUSTRAC was established in 1989 under the \"Financial Transaction Reports Act 1988\" to implement in Australia the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), which Australia joined in 1990. \n\nAUSTRAC's existence was continued under the \"Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006\" (Cth) (AML/CTF Act). The AML/CTF Act came into effect on 12 December 2006, and extended the existing monitoring regime to cover financing of terrorism and listed terrorist organisations. Under Division 103 of the \"Criminal Code Act 1995\" (Cth), it is illegal to finance terrorism. The Attorney-General's Department maintains a list of outlawed terror organisations. In 2014 AUSTRAC released a report, \"Terrorism financing in Australia 2014\", which says, \"Terrorism financing poses a serious threat to Australians and Australian interests at home and abroad.\"\n\nAUSTRAC is a member of the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units and an observer in the Camden Assets Recovery Interagency Network and is a member of FATF and the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. \n\nCertain classes of financial services are required to be reported to AUSTRAC, in particular bank cash transactions (i.e., notes and coins) of A$10,000 or more, as well as suspicious transactions and all international transfers. Reports to AUSTRAC must be made within 10 business days. The information that AUSTRAC collects is available for use by law enforcement, revenue, regulatory, security and other agencies.\n\n\"Reporting entities\" are required to report transactions to AUSTRAC. Transactions which must be reported include:\n\n\nAustralia's cash controls require travellers to report to AUSTRAC when they carry $10,000 or more (or equivalent in a foreign currency) of cash (or equivalent) into or out of Australia, which can be done on forms available from the Border Force at airports and sea ports. The Border Force attempts to detect evasion of this requirement. Airlines are not liable for what their passengers carry. Cross-border movement of bearer negotiable instruments of any amount must also be reported if requested by a Border Force or police officer.\n\nIt's an offence under the Act for anyone to split a transaction into two or more parts with a dominant purpose of avoiding the reporting rules and thresholds.\n\nCertain classes of transactions are exempt, or may be exempted on application. For example, established customers transacting amounts typical of their lawful business, such as for payroll, or retail or vending machine takings, etc. Motor vehicle traders are specifically not eligible for exemption, as are boats, farm machinery and aircraft traders.\n\nUnder the \"Freedom of Information Act 1982\", any person can access records held by AUSTRAC, subject to certain exemptions.\n\nEntities which are required to report transactions to AUSTRAC are called \"reporting entities\", which are specified in the AML/CTF Act. These entities deal in cash, bullion and financial transactions, and include:\n\n\nReporting entities must identify their customers using the 100-point check system. Accounts may only be opened, but can only be operated (i.e., withdrawals made) by an identified customer; an unidentified customer is blocked from making withdrawals. Generally identification can be transferred from one account to another, so that for instance a person once identified does not need to produce documents again when opening a second account at the same institution.\n\nFor banks and similar reporting entities, identification requirements are determined by a risk-based approach, which may differ for each reporting entity.\n\nIt's an offence to open or operate an account with a reporting entity under an alias or false name, punishable by a fine or up to 2 years imprisonment.\n\nThe information that AUSTRAC collects is also available to a large number of government agencies, including:\n\n\nOne prominent attempted evasion of the AUSTRAC rules took place ahead of the Dutch takeover of TNT (see TNT N.V.) in 1999. Simon Hannes was an executive at Macquarie Bank, which was advising TNT, and he bought about $90,000 of TNT call options under the name \"Mark Booth\" to profit when the bid was announced. He was convicted of insider trading but also of two offences under the Financial Transactions Reports Act since he had made multiple cash withdrawals and deposits each just under the $10,000 threshold, apparently to avoid that reporting. His sentence for those transactions was 4 months jail.\n\nIn 2009, an investigation carried out by officers of AUSTRAC and other agencies determined that funds were being sent from Australia for use by the Somalia-based terrorist group, al-Shabaab. Money was remitted, with false names used to obscure the money trail. This investigation lead to the ultimate arrest of the suspects on charges of conspiring to commit a terrorist attack on an Australian army base. \n\nIn 2014, Australian authorities feared that money being transferred from Australia to Somalia could be used for terrorist purposes. In 2015, Australian banks ceased to provide money-transfer facilities to Somalia.\n\nOn 3 August 2017, AUSTRAC took action against the Commonwealth Bank alleging that it did not report cash transactions over $10,000 within the required 10 business day period, or at all. The alleged breach involves over 53,700 transactions over $10,000 through a type of ATM that allowed anonymous cash deposits up to $20,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4318577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318577", "title": "Baltimore classification", "text": "Baltimore classification\n\nThe Baltimore classification, developed by David Baltimore, is a virus classification system that groups viruses into families, depending on their type of genome (DNA, RNA, single-stranded (ss), double-stranded (ds), etc..) and their method of replication.\n\nClassifying viruses according to their genome means that those in a given category will all behave in much the same way, which offers some indication of how to proceed with further research. In short:\n\nThese types of viruses must enter the host nucleus before they are able to replicate. Furthermore, these viruses require host cell polymerases to replicate the viral genome and, hence, are highly dependent on the cell cycle. Proper infection and production of progeny requires that the cell be in replication, as it is during replication that the cell's polymerases are active. The virus may induce the cell to forcefully undergo cell division, which may lead to transformation of the cell and, ultimately, cancer. Examples include Herpesviridae, Adenoviridae, and Papovaviridae.\n\nThere is only one well-studied example in which a class 1 virus is not replicating within the nucleus: the Poxvirus family, a highly pathogenic virus that infects vertebrates and includes the smallpox virus.\n\nThe mRNA is transcribed in the normal way from viral DNA using the host transcriptase enzymes, into two types of mRNA's:\n1) early mRNA, transcribed prior to the synthesis of viral DNA, and\n2) late mRNA, transcribed from progeny DNA.\n\nViruses in this category include the Anelloviridae, Circoviridae, and Parvoviridae (which infect vertebrates), the Geminiviridae and Nanoviridae (which infect plants), and the Microviridae (which infect prokaryotes). Most of them have circular genomes (the parvoviruses are the only known exception). Eukaryote-infecting viruses replicate mostly within the nucleus - usually via a rolling circle mechanism, forming double-stranded DNA intermediate in the process. A prevalent but asymptomatic human Anellovirus, called Transfusion Transmitted Virus (TTV), is included within this classification.\n\nAs with most RNA viruses, this class replicates in the \"Core\" capsid that is in cytoplasm, not having to use the host replication polymerases to as much a degree as DNA viruses. This family is also not as well-studied as the rest and includes 2 major families, the Reoviridae and Birnaviridae. Replication is monocistronic and includes individual, segmented genomes, meaning that each of the genes codes for only one protein, unlike other viruses that exhibit more complex translation.\n\nThe ssRNA viruses belong to Class IV or V of the Baltimore classification. They could be grouped into positive sense or negative sense according to the sense of polarity of RNA. The single stranded RNA is the common feature of these viruses. The replication of viruses happens in the cytoplasm or nucleus (for segmented class V viruses). \nClass IV and V ssRNA viruses do not depend as heavily as DNA viruses on the cell cycle.\n\nThe positive-sense RNA viruses and indeed all RNA defined as positive-sense can be directly accessed by the host ribosomes to immediately form proteins. These can be divided into two groups, both of which reproduce in the cytoplasm:\n\n\nExamples of this class include the families Astroviridae, Caliciviridae, Coronaviridae, Flaviviridae, Picornaviridae, Arteriviridae, and Togaviridae.\n\nThe negative-sense RNA viruses and indeed all genes defined as negative-sense cannot be directly accessed by host ribosomes to immediately form proteins. Instead, they must be transcribed by viral polymerases into a \"readable\" form, which is the positive-sense reciprocal. These can also be divided into two groups:\n\n\nExamples in this class include the families Arenaviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Bunyaviridae, Filoviridae, and Rhabdoviridae (the latter of which includes the rabies virus).\n\nA well-studied family of this class of viruses include the retroviruses. One defining feature is the use of reverse transcriptase to convert the positive-sense RNA into DNA. Instead of using the RNA for templates of proteins, they use DNA to create the templates, which is spliced into the host genome using integrase. Replication can then commence with the help of the host cell's polymerases.\n\nThis small group of viruses, exemplified by the Hepatitis B virus (which is in the Hepadnaviridae family), have a double-stranded, gapped genome that is subsequently filled in to form a covalently closed circle (cccDNA) that serves as a template for production of viral mRNAs and a subgenomic RNA. The pregenome RNA serves as template for the viral reverse transcriptase for production of the DNA genome.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11267232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11267232", "title": "Betty Roberts", "text": "Betty Roberts\n\nBetty Cantrell Roberts (February 5, 1923 – June 25, 2011) was an American politician and judge from the U.S. state of Oregon. She was the 83rd Associate Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court, the highest state court in Oregon. She was the first woman on the Oregon Supreme Court, and had also been the first woman on the Oregon Court of Appeals. Roberts served from 1982 to 1986 on the high court and from 1977 to 1982 on the Court of Appeals.\n\nA native of Kansas and raised in Texas, Roberts had previously been elected to both chambers of the Oregon Legislative Assembly, but lost bids for the governor's office and the United States Senate, both in 1974. She was married three times, including to Frank L. Roberts and Keith Skelton, both of whom she would serve with in the Oregon Legislative Assembly. She was a private mediator and senior judge until her death due to pulmonary fibrosis.\n\nBetty was the mother of Dian Rice [Odell], John W. Rice, Jr., [spouse Hon. Kristena A. LaMar], Jo R. Rice, [spouse Al Brown] and Randy Rice.\n\nBetty Cantrell was born in Arkansas City, Kansas, on February 5, 1923. When she was six, her father became partially paralyzed and the family moved to Texas to be near her mother's family. In Texas, Roberts was raised poor during the Great Depression of the 1930s. She graduated from high school and then attended Texas Wesleyan College in Ft. Worth for one year starting in 1940. In 1942 during WWII she married Bill Rice (John Willard Rice), a young soldier from Oregon who was stationed at Sheppard Field. After the war they moved to Oregon, where Bill was a banker, with the family living in Klamath Falls, Lakeview, Gresham, and La Grande. By the 1950s Roberts was the mother of four children, Dian, John Jr., Jo, and Randy.\n\nRoberts enrolled at Eastern Oregon College in La Grande for a single year in 1955. After the family moved to Portland, she enrolled at Portland State College where she graduated in 1958 with a bachelor of science degree in education. From 1958 to 1967, Roberts taught high school in the Portland metropolitan area at Reynolds High School, Centennial High School, and David Douglas High School before moving on to teach business law and political science at Mt. Hood Community College from 1967 to 1976. She and Bill Rice divorced in 1959. She became a member of the Lynch Elementary School District school board, serving from 1960 to 1966. She married Frank L. Roberts in 1960, adopting his name and retaining it after their divorce in 1965.\n\nRoberts went on to earn a master's degree in political science from the University of Oregon in 1962. She then attended Northwestern School of Law (now Lewis & Clark Law School) in Portland, where she graduated in 1966 with her Juris Doctor. She earned her degree while attending evening classes at the school, much like she earned her early degrees. During this time she was still teaching high school and successfully ran for a seat in Oregon's House of Representatives.\n\nElected in 1964 to the Oregon House as a Democrat from Multnomah County, Roberts won re-election in 1966. In 1968, she won election to the Oregon Senate representing Multnomah County in District 12, and was the only woman in the Oregon Senate at that time. That same year she married fellow legislator Keith D. Skelton, but retained the Roberts surname. However, the Oregon State Bar, \"The Oregonian\" newspaper, and the state elections division refused to abide by her decision. She threatened legal action, and eventually was no longer referred to as Mrs. Betty Skelton. While in the Senate she was a cosponsor of the Oregon Bottle Bill that passed in 1971, the first of its kind in the nation. In 1972, Roberts was re-elected to the Senate for another four-year term.\n\nIn 1974, Roberts ran for governor of Oregon (the fifth woman to do so), but lost in the Democratic primary to Robert W. Straub. Later that year, following the death of Democratic nominee Wayne Morse, she was picked by the Democratic Party to run on the November ballot for the 1974 Oregon United States Senate, an unsuccessful bid against incumbent Bob Packwood. In 1975, she was named the Education Citizen of the Year Award by the Oregon Education Association and the Woman of the Year by the Oregon Women’s Political Caucus. The next year the Oregon Conference of Seventh Day Adventists gave her their Liberty Award. During this time Roberts also served as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1968, 1972, and 1976, while also practicing law at the firm Skelton & Roberts from 1967 to 1977. She served as the Oregon chairperson for Jimmy Carter's Presidential campaign in 1976.\n\nOn September 1, 1977, Oregon Governor Robert W. Straub, a former opponent, appointed Roberts to the Oregon Court of Appeals to a new position, along with W. Michael Gillette, George M. Joseph, and John Buttler, when the court expanded from six to ten positions. Roberts was the first woman on that court, as well as the first on any appellate court in Oregon. The next year she was up for election to retain her seat on the court, and won the election to a full six-year term. While on the court she faced discrimination from some judges due to her gender, as the Chief Judge had been against the nomination of a woman to the court.\n\nPrior to completing her term on the court, Roberts resigned on February 8, 1982, when she was appointed by Governor Victor G. Atiyeh to the Oregon Supreme Court. She was appointed to replace the retiring Thomas Tongue on Oregon's highest court, where she was again the first woman on that court. She then won election to a full six-year term on the court later in 1982. In 1982, she wrote the opinion in \"State v. Charles\" (293 Or. 273), which adopted the duty to retreat in Oregon. This requires people to attempt to retreat in most situations before one could use deadly force, even in self-defense. That same year she wrote the opinion in the workers' compensation case, \"Hewitt v. SAIF\", that men and women have equal rights under the Oregon Constitution, and so effectively gave Oregon an Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nRoberts was the sole dissenting justice in \"Bank of Oregon v. Independent News\" (298 Ore. 434), when the court ruled that banks were not public figures, making it easier for banks and their officials to sue journalists for libel. While on the bench Roberts was recognized by both the University of Oregon and Portland State University for distinguished service. On February 7, 1986, she resigned her position on the court. Roberts left in part due to the heavy workload of the job, in part due to the daily commute between her home in Portland and the Oregon Supreme Court Building in Salem, partly due to the stress of the job, and in part because her husband was retiring and asked her to travel with him.\n\nRobert's marriage to Keith Skelton lasted until his death on October 23, 1995. In 1986, Oregon's Mary Leonard Law Society for women attorneys gave Roberts their Distinguished Service Award, and the following year the Oregon State Bar Association granted her an Award of Merit, with the Oregon American Civil Liberties Union awarding her a Civil Liberties Award. After leaving the Oregon Supreme Court she was asked to help broker a settlement in a case by the Chief Justice, which led to a career in alternative dispute resolution, primarily as a mediator, but also as an arbitrator.\n\nRoberts helped organize opposition in Oregon to Robert Bork’s U.S. Supreme Court nomination. From 1988 to 1991 she was a visiting professor in political science at Oregon State University. In 1988, she received recognition from Portland State University, Oregon State University, and Lewis & Clark Law School. She also served on the state's Commission on Higher Education in the late 1980s. In 1992, Roberts was given the award bearing her name from the Oregon Women Lawyers. She earned the E. B. MacNaughton Civil Liberties Award from the ACLU in 2004.\n\nIn March 2004, she presided over the first legal same-sex marriage in Oregon that was held during a brief period when Multnomah County issued marriage licenses to people of the same-sex. In 2006, the American Bar Association awarded her the Margaret Brent Award from its Commission on Women in the Profession. As of 2008, Roberts served as a private mediator in the Portland area, and was a senior judge in Oregon, subject to recall to serve as a temporary judge. Her autobiography, \"With Grit and By Grace, Breaking Trails in Politics and Law\", was published in 2008.\n\nRoberts died in her Portland home of pulmonary fibrosis on June 25, 2011. Representative Earl Blumenauer stated \"She was one of a kind... for over a quarter century, Betty Roberts had as much impact on the political process as anyone in Oregon.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55931886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55931886", "title": "Bioactive terrarium", "text": "Bioactive terrarium\n\nA bioactive terrarium (or vivarium) is a terrarium for housing one or more terrestrial animals which also includes populations of small invertebrates and microorganisms to consume and break down the waste products of the primary species. This population of decomposers is colloquially referred to as the \"cleanup crew\" (abbr. \"CUC\"), and can include terrestrial isopods, springtails, earthworms, millipedes, and various beetles as determined by compatibility with the habitat of the primary species (e.g. tropical rainforest vs. desert). In a fully functional bioactive terrarium, all of the waste products will be broken down by the cleanup crew, eliminating the need for cage cleaning and preventing odors. While most bioactive terrariums are also naturalistic (with live plants, soil, lighting, and naturalistic decor), a terrarium may be bioactive without being naturalistic, and naturalistic without being bioactive).\n\nAlthough any enclosure can be made bioactive by addition of a \"cleanup crew\" and appropriate substrate, such enclosures are almost always naturalistic terraria constructed of PVC, wood, glass and/or acrylic; bioactive enclosures in \"rack\" style caging is uncommon. \n\nBioactive enclosures require some form of particulate substrate to provide habitat for the cleanup crew. The choice of substrate is typically determined by the habitat of the primary species (e.g. jungle vs desert), and created by mixing a variety of components such as organic topsoil (free of pesticides and non-biological fertilizers), peat, coco fiber, sand, long-fiber sphagnum moss, cypress mulch, and orchid bark in varying proportions. In wet habitats, there is typically a layer of coarse rocks beneath the substrate to allow drainage, separated from the overlying substrate with a fine plastic mesh. Additionally, some bioactive terraria include leaflitter, which can serve as food and microhabitat for the cleanup crew.\n\nWaste products of the primary species are consumed by a variety of smaller invertebrates, termed a \"cleanup crew\". These can include terrestrial isopods, springtails, earthworms, millipedes, and various beetles, with different species being preferred in different habitats - the cleanup crew for a tropical rainforest bioactive terrarium may rely primarily on springtails, isopods, and earthworms, while a desert habitat would use mostly beetles. If the primary species is insectivorous, they may consume insects in the cleanup crew, and thus the cleanup crew must have sufficient retreats to avoid be completely depopulated.\n\nAdditionally, bioactive terraria typically have a flourishing population of bacteria and other microorganisms which break down the wastes of the cleanup crew and primary species. Fungi may occur, and, if non-toxic, may provide food for the cleanup crew and primary species.\n"}
{"id": "19911773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19911773", "title": "Biotechnology industry in China", "text": "Biotechnology industry in China\n\nChina has seen double-digit growth in its biotechnology industry and has gone from being one of the slowest to one of the fastest nations in the adoption of new biotechnologies. The biotech sector is seen in China and internationally as a core area of national scientific and economic development. The main national biotech body in the country is the China National Center for Biotechnology Development. The CNCBD is an organization established on November 3, 1983 under the Ministry of Science and Technology with the approval of the State Council. CNCBD is the sole national center to coordinate and implement the national S&T program in Biotechnology and Health.\n\nBiotech industry in China started in 1984. By 1997, the number of Chinese biotech companies was about 200. In 2000 it was estimated, that the number of Chinese biotech companies increased to 600. In 2005 China's biotechnology industry increased to 900 modern biotech companies. China's biotech industry registered sales totaling US$2.4 billion in 2000, compared with US$ 31 million in 1986.\n\nChina's biopharmaceutical industry is gradually expanding due to such favorable factors as China's rapid economic growth, people's higher income, and increasing understanding of and demand for biopharmaceutical. The biopharmaceutical industry has begun to play a more important role in national economy, drawing more attention from investors - both private and public.\n\nWith the improvement of the health care system and people's rising awareness of disease treatment, more non-conservative treatment methods are used in clinical treatment, which has promoted the development of blood products. Currently, blood products frequently used in clinical treatment include over 20 types, belonging to such 3 sub-catalogues as human serum albumin, immunoglobulin and coagulation factors.\n\nThe demand of charged vaccine has increased dramatically with the rising consumption power and health awareness of people so that charged vaccine market is expanding rapidly. Charged vaccine as a supplement to free vaccine program has promoted the rapid growth of domestic vaccine market, the external diagnostic reagent is becoming familiar with people owing to people's deeper understanding of catalogues and curative effect of biological drugs. Nowadays genetic drugs and antibody drugs are replacing the chemical drugs which have many side effects to cure the cancer patients, and this will bring more opportunities for cancer patients to survive.\n\nThe import and export volume of China's biopharmaceutical products was 377 million dollars in 2007, increased by 48% as compared with last year. The import volume reached 336 million dollars, increased by 51% as compared with 2006, and the export volume was 41 million dollars .\n\nThe growth rate of export volume in 2007 had declined from the level of 58% in 2006 to 26% in 2007. Although the export of China's biopharmaceutical industry constantly kept a high growth rate, the volume is very small compared with the import volume.\n\nThe export volume was only 41 million dollars in 2007 whereas the import volume added up to 336 million USD. This sharp contrast indicated that China's biopharmaceutical products accounted for a very low market ratio in international market.\n\nChina's Minister of Agriculture Du Qinglin stated in July 2006 that science and technology should contribute up to 63% of the growth of Chinese agriculture sector by 2020. The minister outlined five areas that will be the focus of China in attempt to take advantage of biotechnology in agriculture, including GM cotton and rice, safe farm products, agricultural equipment, and research institutions.\n\n\n\n\nApproved in 1982 and implemented for three Five-year Plans, the program includes three major issues: agriculture, new and high technologies and social development. The research on biological technologies is focused on agricultural breeding, gene medicine, marine biological products and the industrialization on key technologies.\n\nThe program was approved in March 1986 (because of that date it is simply called \"863\"). Its objective was to develop frontier high technology to narrow the gap between China and developed countries. The program lists biotechnology as one of seven targeted areas. '863' is China's biggest S&T development program. The budget for the 863 program has been raised from RMB 5.9 billion in the past 15 years to RMB 15 billion for the 10th 5-Year-Plan (2001–2005).\n\nEstablished in 1988, the Torch Program aims to commercialize China's new and high technologies. The program encourages to invest in China's high technology zones.\n\nEstablished in 1986, the Spark Program was the first program to promote the development of rural economy by relying on science and technology. One of the main contents of the program is the development of high yield, high quality and high effective agricultural products.\n\nSince the start of China's Torch Program in August 1988, 53 \"National Science and Technology Industrial Parks\" (STIPs) have been approved by the State Council (State-Level Hi-Tech and New Technology Zones). By 2000, there were altogether 20,796 enterprises in the STIPs.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29823551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29823551", "title": "Bir Hambir", "text": "Bir Hambir\n\nHambir Malla Dev, also known as Bir Hambir(Beera Hambeera) & Veer Hambir, was the forty-ninth king of the Mallabhum.He ruled from 1565 to 1620 CE.\n\nHambir was the 49th ruler of the Malla dynasty who flourished around 1586 AD and ruled in 16th-17th century, and was a contemporary of the Mughal emperor Akbar. He fought on the side of Akbar against the Afghans and paid an annual tribute to the Muslim viceroys of Bengal and thus acknowledged their suzerainty.\n\nBir Hambir was a pious man who started following Vaishnavism. A story in two Vaishnava works (Prem-vilasa of Nityananda Das (alias Balaram Das) and Bhakti Ratnakara of Narahari Chakrabarti) recounts the manner in which Srinivasa and other devotees were robbed by Bir Hambir while travelling from Vrindavan to Gaur with a number of Vaishanava manuscripts. However, Bir Hambir was so moved by Srinivasa’s reading of Bhagavata that he converted to Vaishnavism and gave Srinivasa a rich endowment of land and money. He introduced the worship of Madan Mohan to Bishnupur.\n\nDuring his regime (1565 to 1620), Dev title was suffixed after title Malla and Mallabhum was very safe and secured.\n\nThe Rashmancha is a historical building located at Bishnupur. It was commissioned by Malla king Bir Hambir in 1600 CE. During the Vaishnava Ras festival, all the Radha Krishna idols of Bishnupur town used to be brought here to be worshipped by the citizens.\n\nDuring the reign of Bir Hambir the Dal Madal, one of the largest-bored cannons even made, was founded, demonstrating the skill of artisans of that time. Dal Madal was made by Jagannath Karmakar. \"Dal Madal\" means \"destruction of enemy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2858890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2858890", "title": "Black Jack (horse)", "text": "Black Jack (horse)\n\nA coal-black Morgan-American Quarter Horse cross, Black Jack served in the Caisson Platoon of the 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard). Named in honor of General of the Armies John J. \"Black Jack\" Pershing, he was the riderless horse in more than 1,000 Armed Forces Full Honors Funerals (AFFHF), the majority of which were in Arlington National Cemetery. With boots reversed in the stirrups, he was a symbol of a fallen leader.\n\nBlack Jack was foaled January 19, 1947, and came to Fort Myer from the cavalry remount station at Fort Reno, Oklahoma, on November 22, 1952. Black Jack was the last of the Quartermaster–issue horses branded with the Army's U.S. brand (on the left shoulder) and his Army serial number 2V56 (on the left side of his neck).\n\nBlack Jack served a long and respectable military career. Among the highlights were that he participated in four state funerals:\n\n\nArmy Major General Philip C. Wehle was the Commanding General of the Military District of Washington during those state funerals, except during the Presidency of Lyndon Johnson. At that time Army Major General James Adamson served as Commanding General.\n\nBlack Jack died after a 29-year military career on February 6, 1976. He was cremated, with his remains laid to rest in a plot at Fort Myer, Virginia, on Summerall Field; his final resting place lies 200 feet (60 m) northeast of the flagpole in the southeast corner of the parade field. He is one of four horses in United States history to be buried with Full Military Honors, the others being Chief, Sergeant Reckless, and Comanche.\n\n"}
{"id": "38586943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38586943", "title": "Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences", "text": "Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences\n\nThe Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences is a scientific award, funded by internet entrepreneurs: Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan of Facebook; Sergey Brin of Google; entrepreneur and venture capitalist Yuri Milner; and Anne Wojcicki, one of the founders of the genetics company 23andMe. The Chairman of the Board is Arthur D. Levinson of Apple.\n\nThe award of $3 million, the largest award in the sciences, is given to researchers who have made discoveries that extend human life. The Prize is awarded annually, beginning in 2013, with six awards given in each subsequent year. Winners are expected to give public lectures and form the committee to decide future winners.\n\nEleven inaugural laureates were announced in 2013. Each received $3,000,000.\n\n\nThe 2014 laureates were:\n\nThe 2015 laureates were:\n\nThe 2016 laureates were:\n\nThe 2017 laureates were:\n\nThe 2018 laureates were:\n\nThe 2019 laureates were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37102865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37102865", "title": "Chemically induced dimerization", "text": "Chemically induced dimerization\n\nChemically Induced Dimerization (CID) is a biological mechanism in which two proteins bind only in the presence of a certain small molecule, enzyme or other dimerizing agent. Genetically engineered CID systems are used in biological research to control protein localization, to manipulate signalling pathways and to induce protein activation. \n\nThe first small molecule CID system was developed in 1993 and used FK1012, a derivative of the drug tacrolimus (FK506), to induce homo-dimerization of FKBP. This system was used \"in vivo\" to induce binding between cell surface receptors which could not bind in the normal way because they lacked the transmembrane and extracellular domain. Addition of FK1012 to the cells caused signal transduction.\n\nCID has been used for a number of applications in biomedical research. In most applications each dimerizing protein is expressed as part of a fusion construct with other proteins of interest. Adding the chemical dimerizing agent brings both constructs into proximity with each other and induces interactions between the proteins of interest. CID has been used to regulate and monitor gene transcription, signal transduction and post translational modifications in proteins.\n\nRecently, CID has also been used to create a basic component of biocomputers, logic gates, from genetically manipulated cells. In this application, two independent CID systems, one based on plant proteins and one based on bacterial proteins are expressed in the same cell. Each set of proteins can be induced to dimerize by the addition of a separate chemical. By creating fusion proteins with the dimerizing proteins, membrane bound proteins and proteins that activate cell ruffling an AND gate and OR gate can be created that take chemical dimerizing agents as inputs and returns a ruffled or unruffled state as output.\n"}
{"id": "43270576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43270576", "title": "Connectome (book)", "text": "Connectome (book)\n\nConnectome: How the Brain's Wiring Makes Us Who We Are (2012) is a book by Sebastian Seung. It introduces basic concepts in neuroscience and then elaborates on the field of connectomics, i.e., how to scan, decode, compare, and understand patterns in brain connectivity. The book concludes with musings on cryonics and mind uploading. It was selected by the Wall Street Journal as Top Ten Nonfiction of 2012. \n\nSeung frames the idea of connectomics and argues that \"You are more than your genes. You are your connectome.\"\n\nSeung introduces the 19th-century idea of phrenology and its modern-day counterpart, which he calls \"neo-phrenology\", i.e., the idea that sizes of brain regions play a role in intelligence (e.g., Einstein's enlarged inferior parietal lobule) or mental disorders (e.g., schizophrenia and autism). That said, Seung emphasizes that these size correlations only show up for large samples and can't necessarily predict what will happen in any individual's brain.\n\nSeung discusses localization maps of the brain that attempt to confine particular functions to particular regions. For instance, phantom-limb pain is hypothesized to result when brain regions formerly devoted to the now-missing lower arm become occupied for use by the upper arm and face. Hence, stimulation of the upper arm or face produces what feels like pain in the missing lower arm.\n\nIn contrast to brain localization is the theory of equipotentiality, that any brain region has the \"potential\" to perform any function.\n\nSeung discusses basic cell-level neuroscience, including the structure of neurons and their neurites, as well as a \"weighted voting model\" of neuronal firing in which a neuron fires when the weighted sum of excitatory minus inhibitory inputs exceeds a threshold.\n\nSeung explores how hierarchical neural networks can encode concepts (e.g., Jennifer Aniston) as compositions of simpler parts and how these concepts can be linked in one's mind when connections are formed between them, either bidirectionally with cell assemblies or unidirectionally with synaptic chains.\n\nSeung discusses theories of memory formation, including basic Hebbian plasticity and the more speculative neural Darwinism. According to the \"dual trace\" theory of memory, short-term memory can take the form of persistent spiking among a cell assembly, while long-term memories can be stored in persistent connections. It's useful to have both types of memory because of a \"stability-plasticity dilemma\", which is a concept familiar in computers that use both RAM and hard drive storage.\n\nSeung discusses how many psychological traits and disorders are at least partly genetic. (He quotes Eric Turkheimer's First Law of Behavior Genetics: \"All human behavioral traits are heritable.\") He elaborates on some of the mechanisms by which genes influence neural development and can lead to neural disorders.\n\nTo what extent are the first three years of development a crucial window after which brain traits cannot be reversed? And to what extent do brains remain plastic throughout life? Seung discusses evidence on both sides to show that the truth is a little bit of both.\n\nSeung discusses how advances in technologies to see the brain have driven neuroscience progress—in the long run arguably more than the immediate neuroscientific advances that these technologies enabled.\n\nSeung reviews the history of mapping the \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" connectome by Sydney Brenner and colleagues, published in 1986. The process required immense manual labor, but connectome mapping is speeding up due to automation with artificial intelligence and intelligence amplification.\n\nSeung discusses ways of dividing up the brain into regions. Korbinian Brodmann based his Brodmann areas on uniformity of cortical layers within each area. Santiago Ramón y Cajal tried to identify types of neurons based on their shapes. Seung himself proposes to divide brain regions based on what other regions they generally connect to. He says this might often coincide with Brodmann's or Cajal's divisions, but if we ultimately care about connectivity, Seung's classification would be most directly relevant.\n\nSeung discusses decoding memories from neural connections. As an example potentially feasible in the near/medium term, he suggests the HVC region in birds, which may store their songs in a roughly analogous way as a compact disc stores Beethoven music.\n\nSeung discusses how to look at differences among brains based on differences in connectivity. This can be approximated at a coarse level using diffusion MRI or at more fine-grained levels using connectome maps.\n\nSeung examines how connectomics may in the future help identify neurological problems before they become serious and inform development of drugs or gene therapies for connectopathies.\n\nSeung examines the efforts of the Alcor Life Extension Foundation to offer some chance of immortality by cryonics. He compares preservation in liquid nitrogen with a plastination approach that, unlike Alcor's method, requires \"no special maintenance\".\n\nSeung explores the idea of mind uploading and associated philosophical implications, such as using an analogue of the Turing test to determine if a simulation has sufficient fidelity to appear as the real \"you\" to outsiders, as well as whether you would subjectively feel the upload to be \"you\" on the inside relative to your stored self-model. Seung discusses the idea that thinking of ourselves as information—as not neurons per se but as the \"connections\" of neurons—can be seen as a new conception of the soul. He suggests that transhumanism can give spiritual purpose to a seemingly cold, material universe: \"transhumanism lends meaning to lives that were robbed of it by science\" (p. 273).\n\nAbigail Zuger characterized \"Connectome\" as a book arguing that we are more than just our genes. She adds: \"it is a testament to Dr. Seung’s remarkable clarity of exposition that the reader is swept along with his enthusiasm\". Terry Sejnowski echoed this sentiment about the book's style: \"With the first-person flavour of James Watson's \"Double Helix\" - an account of how DNA's structure was discovered - \"Connectome\" gives a sense of the excitement on the cutting edge of neuroscience.\"\n\nSusan Okie affirms that \"Seung is a clear, lively writer who chooses vivid examples,\" though she expresses skepticism about the \"science-fiction fantasy that, one day, a human being’s connectome could be simulated and 'uploaded' onto a computer\".\n\nDaniel Levitin praised \"Connectome\" as \"\"the\" best lay book on brain science I've ever read.\" He says it is \"witty and exceptionally clear\" and includes \"the equivalent of a college course on neuroscience\". That said, Levitin raised the caveat that a person's connectome by itself isn't the whole story of who that person is, because beyond understanding neural wiring, \"we also need to know the precise chemical soup du jour in the brain\" as well as the update rules for how experiences change brain connections.\n\nChristof Koch said: \"Treating the connectome as the be-all and end-all of brain function has its problems. ...The book is well illustrated and sourced with an ending that is both engaging and idiosyncratic.\" But like Levitin, Koch felt that the connectome by itself is missing some pieces of the picture and that not all brain diseases are diseases of connectivity. Other possible problems may arise from \"Faults in synaptic transmission and in processes inside neurons and the glial cells that support them\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1867949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1867949", "title": "Dick Shawn", "text": "Dick Shawn\n\nDick Shawn (born Richard Schulefand, December 1, 1923 – April 17, 1987) was an American actor and comedian. He played a wide variety of supporting roles and was a prolific character actor. During the 1960s he played small roles in madcap comedies, usually portraying caricatures of counter culture personalities, such as the deadbeat son Sylvester in \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" and the hippie actor Lorenzo Saint DuBois (\"L.S.D.\") in \"The Producers\" (1968).\n\nShawn was born in Buffalo, New York, and raised in adjacent Lackawanna.\n\nHe portrayed Sylvester Marcus, son of Mrs. Marcus (Ethel Merman), in Stanley Kramer's \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" (1963) and easygoing Lorenzo St. DuBois/Adolf Hitler in the musical \"Springtime for Hitler\", the play within Mel Brooks's movie \"The Producers\" (1968). He also provided the Snow Miser's voice in \"The Year Without a Santa Claus\" (1974).\n\nHe performed his stand-up comedy act for over 35 years in nightclubs around the world. His award-winning one-man stage show, \"The Second Greatest Entertainer in the Whole Wide World\", was sometimes performed with a unique opening. When the audience entered the theater, they saw a bare stage with a pile of bricks in stage center. When the play began, Shawn emerged from the pile of bricks. The startling effect of this required complete concentration and breath control because the slightest movement of the bricks could ruin the surprise appearance.\n\nIn addition to roles in more than 30 movies and seven Broadway productions, Shawn made television appearances, toured often, and periodically performed a one-man show that mixed songs, sketches, and pantomime. He was a speaker at the Friars Club Roasts in Los Angeles and New York. At one of the X-rated roasts (a 1986 \"Playboy\" roast of Tommy Chong) that had overdosed on tasteless routines by previous speakers, Shawn walked up to the microphone, took a long pause, and \"vomited\" pea soup onto himself and other speakers at the dais.\n\nHis TV appearances included \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", TV movies, sitcoms (including \"Three's Company\" on which he played Jack Tripper's father), dramas including \"St. Elsewhere\" and \"Magnum, P.I.\", and a music video for \"Dance\" by the hair metal band Ratt (1986). Among his roles in anthology TV series, he starred in an \"Amazing Stories\" episode \"Miss Stardust\", directed by Tobe Hooper, about a bizarre intergalactic beauty pageant, and played the Emperor in \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" in Shelley Duvall's \"Faerie Tale Theatre\". He filled in for vacationing Johnny Carson as guest host on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\" on January 1, 1971, which saw the last cigarette commercial on American television (for Virginia Slims) aired on TV, one minute before the cigarette ads were banned.\n\nJim Knipfel and Mark Evanier claim that Andy Kaufman was inspired by Shawn.\n\nShawn was married to Rita Bachner in 1946, and they had four children: Amy, Wendy (married to John Travolta's older brother Joey Travolta), Adam, and Jennifer. He had one grandchild, Rachel Travolta. He was a longtime resident of Englewood, New Jersey.\n\nOn April 17, 1987, during a performance at University of California, San Diego's Mandeville Hall—which included his portrayal of a politician reciting such campaign clichés as \"If elected, I will not lay down on the job\"—Shawn suffered a fatal heart attack and collapsed face-down on the stage. The audience initially assumed that it was part of his act; but after he had remained motionless on the stage for several minutes, a stage hand examined him and asked if a physician was present.\n\nAfter CPR had been initiated, the audience was asked to leave the auditorium, but most remained, still assuming that it was all part of Shawn's act. Many began leaving—still unsure of what they had witnessed—only after paramedics arrived. A notice in the following day's \"San Diego Union\" newspaper clarified that Shawn had indeed died during the performance. Dick Shawn was 63. He is interred at Hillside Memorial Park Cemetery, a Jewish cemetery, in Culver City, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "8036002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8036002", "title": "Doctrine of internal relations", "text": "Doctrine of internal relations\n\nThe doctrine of internal relations is the philosophical doctrine that all relations are internal to their bearers, in the sense that they are essential to them and the bearers would not be what they are without them. It was a term used in British philosophy around in the early 1900s.\n\nSome relations are clearly internal in the sense that, for example, four would not be four unless it were related to two in the way it is. Some relations are internal to their bearers under one description but not under another, for example, a wife would not be a wife unless suitably related to a husband, but Mary would still be Mary had she not married. Or take the internal relation where Jack is taller than his wife, Joan. Here the relation is internal to both of them together, in symbolic form it can be given as: Jack(R)Joan, where R is the ordered relation of \"Taller than\". \n\nThe doctrine that all relations are internal implies that everything has some relation, however distant, to everything else. Such a doctrine is ascribed by Bertrand Russell and G. E. Moore to certain ideas by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and the American philosopher, C. S. Peirce. However neither of these philosophers themselves would describe their own beliefs in this manner, i.e., as being doctrinaire. Russell associates it with pragmatism, objective idealism and the absolute idealism of Hegel. It also refers to coherentism, a holist approach to truth.\n\nSo for the example given above of Jack (taller than) Joan, Bertrand Russell claims that the ordering of the relation is not internal to Jack and Joan taken together. The order is something external imposed on the couple Jack and Joan. This however leaves the question as to the status of the ordering, since it cannot be non-existent. A further step in the process is needed to get beyond Russell's objection and this is to include the person doing the ordering in the example, so we have Jack is taller than Joan, according to Tom, or in symbolic form (Jack(R)Joan)(R2)Tom. However, here again we have another kind of ordering which is not included in the grouping.\n\nHowever, something approaching the holism of the doctrine of internal relations was later re-instated in the canon of Analytic Philosophy by Quine and his criticism of Russellian reductionism.\n\nRussell had opposed the doctrine of internal relations in his abandonment of idealism by reverting to the age old doctrine of atomism and a version of Leibnizian monadism, in which the world is conceived as composed of many distinct, independent entities, each of which can be considered in isolation from its relations to other things. The argument itself was first put down on paper in Plato's dialogue Parmenides and is often referred to as the argument of the One and the Many, part of which includes a version of Aristotle's Third Man Argument, which rejects Platonic Forms and introduces objects as being composed of both form and matter. \n\nA contemporary of Russell, the English philosopher, Alfred North Whitehead, maintained the necessity of a doctrine of internal relations for the theory of evolution:\n\"This material is in itself the ultimate substance. Evolution, on the materialistic theory, is reduced to the role of being another word for the description of the changes of the external relations between portions of matter. There is nothing to evolve, because one set of external relations is as good as any other set of external relations. There can merely be change, purposeless and unprogressive. But the whole point of the modem doctrine is the evolution of the complex organisms from antecedent states of less complex organisms. The doctrine thus cries aloud for a conception of organism as fundamental for nature. It also requires an underlying activity -- a substantial activity -- expressing itself in achievements of organism.\"\n"}
{"id": "54098179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54098179", "title": "Euroleague for Life Sciences", "text": "Euroleague for Life Sciences\n\nThe Euroleague for Life Sciences (ELLS), established in 2001, is a network of leading universities cooperating in the fields of natural resource management, agricultural and forestry sciences, life sciences, veterinary sciences, food sciences, and environmental sciences. ELLS offers summer schools, joint degree programmes, study abroad opportunities and cooperations on PhD level. Every year a member university hosts the ELLS Scientific Student Conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38736597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38736597", "title": "Governor Davey's Proclamation", "text": "Governor Davey's Proclamation\n\nGovernor Davey's Proclamation is a misnomer for an illustrated proclamation issued in Tasmania by the British government after 1 November 1828. Although attributed to Governor Davey it was first authorised by Lieutenant Governor George Arthur. Several illustrated narrative versions of the proclamation were created over time. Many of these four-strip pictograms were originally painted onto Huon pine boards using oil paints. Of approximately 100 proclamation boards produced there are seven known to survive in public collections.\nThe proclamation was intended to explain martial law during the period referred to as the Black War. \n\nThe pictogram scenes that depict Aborigines, British military and settlers were based on drawings by surveyor and artist George Frankland, who suggested in a letter to Governor Arthur that they be tied to trees in remote areas of the island. The proclamation boards were designed to communicate to the Indigenous peoples of Van Diemen's Land that all people, black and white, would be treated equally under the British colonists law. Historian Penelope Edmonds notes \"The boards were made after the 1829 declaration of martial law against Tasmania's Aboriginal people, and the hangings from trees actually depict moments of summary justice and retribution on a violent frontier.\"\n\nThe proclamation boards were reproduced by convict artists. The drawing was mass-produced by pricking the outline of a drawing with a pin, in a technique known as pouncing or spolvero. Charcoal was then dusted through the pinholes and pounded to make an outline.\n\nThe editor reported in the Hobart newspaper on 5 March 1830 that \"We are informed that the Government have given directions for the painting of a large number of pictures to be placed in the bush for the contemplation of the Aboriginal inhabitants.\"\n\nA ceramic cup made by Tasmanian potter Violet Mace in 1934 is sometimes described as the 'proclamation cup' as it is hand-painted with a series of images that are derivative of those found on the proclamation boards. The cup is held in the collection of the National Museum of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "19395303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395303", "title": "Gubru", "text": "Gubru\n\nThe Gubru are a fictional extraterrestrial race in David Brin's Uplift Universe series. Their full name is Gubru ab-Gooksyu-ul-Kwackoo-ul-Okukoo.\n\nThe Gubru are an avian-like species. Most Gubru are neuter and white in plumage color, but after consumption of certain hormones, triads of Gubru begin a path toward gender and sexual maturity. These triads are considered royalty, \"Roost Masters\" with the queens a deep red color, and the princes either blue or amber. Both princes are required to fertilize a queen's eggs, and the queens are at the top of the hierarchy. The \"Molt\" process to determine \"which\" member of the triad will become which gender, is a complex one. Each has an assumed role as a Suzerain (of Beam and Talon, Propriety, or Cost and Caution), and in their search for a new policy consensus, the member whose ideas are most successful becomes the queen of the triad.\n\nThey are a conservative and fanatical race, among those who believe that military action is justified and necessary before the return of the Progenitors. They are prominent among the races in the battle over Kithrup in \"Startide Rising\". In \"The Uplift War\", they make an effort to force EarthClan to reveal the whereabouts of the starship \"Streaker\" by occupying Garth, one of Earth's colonies. Populated only with Humans and Neo-Chimps, with a few aliens resident as diplomats or observers, the result is a guerrilla war. \n"}
{"id": "9918743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9918743", "title": "Huddersfield Ben", "text": "Huddersfield Ben\n\nHuddersfield Ben (c. 1865 – 23 September 1871), an early Yorkshire Terrier, is universally acknowledged to be the foundation sire of the breed. In his day Ben won many prizes, both as a show dog and in ratting contests. He had tremendous influence in setting the breed type for the Yorkshire Terrier, a new breed still under development in Ben's day. Although larger than a standard Yorkshire Terrier, Ben regularly sired stock under 7 pounds.\n\nMr. and Mrs. M.A. Foster of Bradford, in West Yorkshire England, owned Huddersfield Ben. The dog was bred by Mr. W. Eastwood in the town of Huddersfield, England. According to Ben's pedigree, he was linebred (the product of a mother-son pairing), as was his mother Lady. Lady was the great-great-granddaughter of Mr. J. Swift's Old Crab, a long-coated black-and-tan terrier born around 1850. Old Crab and Old Kitty, a Paisley Terrier owned by J. Kershaw of Halifax, West Yorkshire England, are the earliest recorded predecessors to the Yorkshire Terrier.\nHuddersfield Ben, registration number 3612, had an accomplished career in dog shows. He competed in Manchester in 1869 and placed second. He was shown again at Manchester in 1870 and won first place. At the Crystal Palace dog shows in 1870 and 1871, Ben took first and second prizes, respectively. Throughout his show career, Ben won 74 prizes.\n\nIn spite of his short lifespan, Huddersfield Ben was responsible for producing most of the foundation stock of the Yorkshire Terrier. He was an extremely popular stud dog, being prepotent, and especially due to his reputation as one of the first to breed true to type Yorkshire Terriers. Although between 9 and 12 lb, he regularly sired stock that competed in the under 7 lb limit.\n\nAt the age of 6, Ben was run over by a carriage and killed. His body was preserved and put on display, allowing this keystone stud to be observed long after his death.\n"}
{"id": "3990925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3990925", "title": "Jim Abercrombie", "text": "Jim Abercrombie\n\nJim Abercrombie (born \"James Maskell\" (1880-1948)) was an Australian rugby league footballer who played for the Wests Magpies in the New South Wales Rugby League premiership competition. He also played rugby union for North Sydney and Glebe. His position of choice was at lock forward though his versatility meant he could play anywhere in the forwards and he often goal kicked.\n\nAbercrombie was born as James Maskell in South Australia.\n\nHe originally played rugby union prior to the formation of the New South Wales Rugby League premiership in 1908 and was one of the original players to make the switch to the newly formed code. He attended the founding meeting of the Western Suburbs rugby league club and was elected to the inaugural committee. Abercrombie played in Wests' very first match against Balmain and scored Wests' very first goals in 1st grade in the following match against Souths. He played all nine matches of the inaugural season and was selected the first national representative side that played against the visiting New Zealand All Golds. He was also controversially a member of the 1908–09 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain after he was originally left out of the squad though after a public outcry over his omission he was called in, thus making him the first international player to come from the Western Suburbs club. He played in two Tests and 30 tour matches of the long campaign.\n\nAbercrombie was awarded Life Membership of the New South Wales Rugby League in 1914.\n\nIn 2008 the Western Suburbs Magpies celebrated their centenary by inducting six inaugural members into the club's Hall of Fame. These six included Jim Abercrombie.\n\n"}
{"id": "18313661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18313661", "title": "Knowledge compilation", "text": "Knowledge compilation\n\nKnowledge compilation is a family of approaches for addressing the intractability of\na number of artificial intelligence problems.\n\nA propositional model is compiled in an off-line phase in order to support some queries in polytime. Many ways of compiling a propositional models exist.\nAmong others: NNF, DNNF, d-DNNF, BDD, SDD, MDD, DNF and CNF.\n\nDifferent compiled representations have different properties.\nThe three main properties are:\n"}
{"id": "32237314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32237314", "title": "Machine ethics", "text": "Machine ethics\n\nMachine ethics (or machine morality, computational morality, or computational ethics) is a part of the ethics of artificial intelligence concerned with the moral behavior of artificially intelligent beings. Machine ethics contrasts with roboethics, which is concerned with the moral behavior of \"humans\" as they design, construct, use and treat such beings. Machine ethics should not be confused with computer ethics, which focuses on professional behavior towards computers and information. It should also be distinguished from the philosophy of technology, a field that is predominantly concerned with the ethical standing of humans who use technological products, given that machine ethics regards artificially intelligent machines as actual or potential moral agents.\n\nBefore the 21st century the ethics of machines had largely been the subject of science fiction literature, mainly due to computing and artificial intelligence (AI) limitations. These limitations are being overcome through advances in theory and hardware resulting in a renewed focus on the field of artificial intelligence making Machine Ethics a bona fide field of research. The first use of the term seems to be by Mitchell Waldrop in the 1987 AI Magazine article \"A Question of Responsibility\":\"However, one thing that is apparent from the above discussion is that intelligent machines will embody values, assumptions, and purposes, whether their programmers consciously intend them to or not. Thus, as computers and robots become more and more intelligent, it becomes imperative that we think carefully and explicitly about what those built-in values are. Perhaps what we need is, in fact, a theory and practice of machine ethics, in the spirit of Asimov’s three laws of robotics.\"The field was delineated in the AAAI Fall 2005 Symposium on Machine Ethics: \"Past research concerning the relationship between technology and ethics has largely focused on responsible and irresponsible use of technology by human beings, with a few people being interested in how human beings ought to treat machines. In all cases, only human beings have engaged in ethical reasoning. The time has come for adding an ethical dimension to at least some machines. Recognition of the ethical ramifications of behavior involving machines, as well as recent and potential developments in machine autonomy, necessitate this. In contrast to computer hacking, software property issues, privacy issues and other topics normally ascribed to computer ethics, machine ethics is concerned with the behavior of machines towards human users and other machines. Research in machine ethics is key to alleviating concerns with autonomous systems—it could be argued that the notion of autonomous machines without such a dimension is at the root of all fear concerning machine intelligence. Further, investigation of machine ethics could enable the discovery of problems with current ethical theories, advancing our thinking about Ethics.\" Machine ethics is sometimes referred to as machine morality, computational ethics or computational morality. A variety of perspectives of this nascent field can be found in the collected edition \"Machine Ethics\" that stems from the AAAI Fall 2005 Symposium on Machine Ethics.\n\nIn 2009, Oxford University Press published \"Moral Machines, Teaching Robots Right from Wrong\", which it advertised as \"the first book to examine the challenge of building artificial moral agents, probing deeply into the nature of human decision making and ethics.\" It cited some 450 sources, about 100 of which addressed major questions of machine ethics. Few sources were written before the 21st century largely because any form of artificial intelligence was nonexistent.\n\nIn 2011, Cambridge University Press published a collection of essays about machine ethics edited by Michael and Susan Leigh Anderson, who also edited a special issue of \"IEEE Intelligent Systems\" on the topic in 2006.\n\nIn 2014, the US Office of Naval Research announced that it would distribute $7.5 million in grants over five years to university researchers to study questions of machine ethics as applied to autonomous robots, and Nick Bostrom's \"\", which raised machine ethics as the \"most important...issue humanity has ever faced,\" reached #17 on the New York Times list of best selling science books.\n\nIn 2016 the European Parliament published a paper, (22-page PDF), to encourage the Commission to address the issue of robots' legal status, as described more briefly in the press.\n\nJames H. Moor lists four kinds of robots in relation to ethics. A machine can be more than one type of agent.\n(See artificial systems and moral responsibility.)\n\nIn 2009, academics and technical experts attended a conference to discuss the potential impact of robots and computers and the impact of the hypothetical possibility that they could become self-sufficient and able to make their own decisions. They discussed the possibility and the extent to which computers and robots might be able to acquire any level of autonomy, and to what degree they could use such abilities to possibly pose any threat or hazard. They noted that some machines have acquired various forms of semi-autonomy, including being able to find power sources on their own and being able to independently choose targets to attack with weapons. They also noted that some computer viruses can evade elimination and have achieved \"cockroach intelligence.\" They noted that self-awareness as depicted in science-fiction is probably unlikely, but that there were other potential hazards and pitfalls.\n\nSome experts and academics have questioned the use of robots for military combat, especially when such robots are given some degree of autonomous functions. The US Navy has funded a report which indicates that as military robots become more complex, there should be greater attention to implications of their ability to make autonomous decisions. The President of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence has commissioned a study to look at this issue. They point to programs like the Language Acquisition Device which can emulate human interaction.\n\nNick Bostrom and Eliezer Yudkowsky have argued for decision trees (such as ID3) over neural networks and genetic algorithms on the grounds that decision trees obey modern social norms of transparency and predictability (e.g. \"stare decisis\"), while Chris Santos-Lang argued in the opposite direction on the grounds that the norms of any age must be allowed to change and that natural failure to fully satisfy these particular norms has been essential in making humans less vulnerable than machines to criminal \"hackers\".\n\nIn 2009, during an experiment at the Laboratory of Intelligent Systems in the Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale of Lausanne in Switzerland, robots that were programmed to cooperate with each other in searching out a beneficial resource and avoiding a poisonous one eventually learned to lie to each other in an attempt to hoard the beneficial resource.\n\nOne problem in this case may have been that the goals were \"terminal\" (i.e. in contrast, ultimate human motives typically have a quality of requiring never-ending learning). The robots were grouped into clans and the successful members' digital genetic code was used for the next generation. After 50 successive generations, one clan's members discovered how to indicate food instead of poison. At the same time there were selfless robots who signaled danger and died to save others.These adaptations could have been the result of the genetic code or their human creators. (See also Genetic algorithm.)\n\nAs big data and machine learning algorithms that use big data have come into use across fields as diverse as online advertising, credit ratings, and criminal sentencing, all with the promise of providing more objective, data-driven results, they have been identified as a source for perpetuating social inequalities and discrimination. For example, a 2015 study found that women were less likely to be shown high-income job ads by Google's AdSense and another study found that Amazon’s same-day delivery service was systematically not available in black neighborhoods, both for reasons that the companies could not explain, but were just the result of the black box methods they used.\n\nIn 2016, the Obama Administration's Big Data Working Group released reports arguing “the potential of encoding discrimination in automated decisions” and calling for “equal opportunity by design” for applications such as credit scoring.\n\nIn an effort to be more fair and to try to avoid adding to already high imprisonment rates in the US, courts across America have started using quantitative risk assessment software when trying to make decisions about releasing people on bail and sentencing; these tools analyze defendants' history and other attributes. A 2016 ProPublica report analyzed recidivism risk scores calculated by one of the most commonly used tools, the Northpointe COMPAS system, and looked at outcomes over two years, and found that only 61% of those deemed high risk actually committed additional crimes during that period and that African-American defendants were far more likely to be given high scores than white defendants.\n\nIn \"Moral Machines: Teaching Robots Right from Wrong\", Wendell Wallach and Colin Allen conclude that attempts to teach robots right from wrong will likely advance understanding of human ethics by motivating humans to address gaps in modern normative theory and by providing a platform for experimental investigation.\n\nSeveral attempts have been made to make ethics computable or at least formal. Whereas Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics are usually not considered to be suitable for an artificial moral agent, it has been studied whether Kant's categorical imperative can be used. However, it has been pointed out that human value is in some aspects very complex. A way to explicitly surmount this difficulty is to receive human values directly from them through some mechanism, for example by learning them. Another approach is to base current ethical considerations on previous similar situations. This is called casuistry and it could be implemented through research on the internet. The consensus from a million past decisions would lead to a new decision that is democracy dependent. This could, however, lead to decisions that reflect biases and unethical behaviors exhibited in society. The negative effects of this approach can be seen in Microsoft's Tay (bot), where the chatterbot learned to repeat racist and sexually charged messages sent by Twitter users.\n\nOne thought experiment focuses on a \"Genie Golem\" with unlimited powers presenting itself to the reader. This Genie declares that it will return in 50 years and demands that it be provided with a definite set of morals that it will then immediately act upon. The purpose of this experiment is to initiate a discourse over how best to handle defining complete set of ethics that computers may understand.\n\nIsaac Asimov considered the issue in the 1950s in I, Robot. At the insistence of his editor John W. Campbell Jr., he proposed the Three Laws of Robotics to govern artificially intelligent systems. Much of his work was then spent testing the boundaries of his three laws to see where they would break down, or where they would create paradoxical or unanticipated behavior. His work suggests that no set of fixed laws can sufficiently anticipate all possible circumstances.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26483437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26483437", "title": "Monika Hellwig", "text": "Monika Hellwig\n\nMonika Konrad Hildegard Hellwig (10 December 1929 – 30 September 2005) was a German-born British academic, author, educator and theologian, who spent much of her life in the United States. A former Religious Sister, she left her community to pursue her academic career, becoming a professor at Georgetown University and later being named as President/Executive Director of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (1996–2005).\nHellwig was born in 1929 in Breslau, Germany, to a German Catholic father and a Dutch Jewish mother, who was a noted sculptor. When the Nazis came to power, the family moved several times to avoid arrest. First the family moved to the Netherlands. Later, after the German invasion of the Netherlands, the eight-year-old Hellwig and her sisters, Marianne and Angelika, were sent to a boarding school in Scotland by their parents. Her father was later killed by the Nazi authorities. She was briefly reunited with her mother in 1946, only to see her die a few days after that reunion. That same year, aged 15, she began her higher education at the University of Liverpool, from which she received degrees in law (1949) and social science (1951).\n\nHellwig left England and moved to the United States in the early 1950s, where she joined the Medical Mission Sisters, a Roman Catholic religious institute of women based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which had been founded to provide medical care to the poor of the world. After her novitiate, she attended Catholic University for her master's degree in theology, which she received in 1956. She returned to that university for a doctoral degree in theology (1966).\n\nIn 1963 Hellwig was sent to Rome, where she served as a research assistant to a Vatican official during the Second Vatican Council, one of the few women allowed unfettered access as an observer at Council sessions. Fourteen years after she took her vows, in order to pursue better her work, she requested a dispensation from her vows by the Holy See, which granted her this. Thereafter, in addition to lecturing at many universities, Hellwig taught for more than three decades at Georgetown University, including six years as the Landegger Distinguished Professor of Theology.\n\nHellwig wrote many books, including \"Understanding Catholicism\" (1981), \"Jesus, the Compassion of God\" (1992), and \"The Eucharist and the Hunger of the World\" (1976). While serving as President of the Catholic Theological Society of America, in 1986 she co-signed a controversial letter in support of Charles E. Curran, a Catholic priest and professor at the Catholic University of America, who \"had been stripped of his authority to teach in Catholic universities because of his dissent from the church's teachings on such issues as contraception and homosexuality.\" In 1996 she became president and executive director of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities, retaining the position until a few months before her death. She was also a senior research fellow at Georgetown's Woodstock Theological Center at the time of her death.\n\nHellwig adopted two sons and a daughter, who survived her. She retained her British nationality while working and living in the United States.\n\nHellwig died on 30 September 2005, aged 75, at Washington Hospital Center from a cerebral hemorrhage. Following her death, the \"National Catholic Reporter\" referred to Hellwig's \"near encyclopedic knowledge of Catholicism, which might be expected of the coauthor of the \"Modern Catholic Encyclopedia\".\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28972793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28972793", "title": "Murder of Suzanne Capper", "text": "Murder of Suzanne Capper\n\nThe murder of Suzanne Capper was committed in Greater Manchester, England in December 1992. Sixteen-year-old Suzanne Jane Capper died in Withington Hospital on 18 December 1992, from multiple organ failure arising from 80% burns after she was deliberately set on fire on 14 December. Before her death, Capper related that she had previously been kidnapped and kept prisoner for seven days at a house in Moston, Manchester, where she was beaten and tortured. She was taken from the house by car, driven into the countryside and forced out of the car virtually naked into a wood at Werneth Low where petrol was poured over her and she was set alight. The torture and murder arose from the \"avenging [of] trivial grievances: a sexual insult, infection with pubic lice and the loss of a pink duffel coat.\"\n\nDetectives conducting the inquiry said that \"for sheer mindless brutality\" the crime ranked alongside the torture inflicted on children by the Moors murderers. The case went to trial in November 1993, but received \"comparatively little publicity\" as it coincided with the trial of Robert Thompson and Jon Venables for the murder of James Bulger. On 17 December 1993, Jean Powell, aged 26, her ex-husband Glyn Powell, aged 29, and Bernadette McNeilly, aged 24, were sentenced to life imprisonment for their parts in the murder. Jeffrey Leigh, aged 27, was jailed for twelve years for false imprisonment. Jean Powell's brother Clifford Pook, aged 18, was sentenced to fifteen years in a Young Offenders' Institution for false imprisonment and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm. Anthony Michael Dudson, who was 16 years old at the time of the murder, was also found guilty of murder and sentenced to be detained at Her Majesty's pleasure under section 53(1) of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933.\n\nCapper, described as \"a gentle and easily influenced girl,\" had been babysitting for Jean Powell since she was ten years old. In 1990 she had spent time in the care of the local authority after her mother, Elizabeth Capper, and her stepfather separated, after which Suzanne and her older sister Michelle stayed with their stepfather. Around this time Capper began to truant from Moston Brook High School, and her attendance during the final two years of schooling was described as \"erratic.\" Capper increasingly spent her time at Powell's house. Powell lived at 97 Langworthy Road, Moston, a small Victorian terraced house, where she also dealt drugs and was involved with the handling of stolen motor vehicles. Michelle Capper had briefly lived with Powell, but moved out in August 1992 because she did not like the \"evil new friends\" Powell was associating with, particularly Bernadette McNeilly, who had recently moved in three doors away at number 91. McNeilly, who had three children, subsequently moved in with Powell and her three children, where the two shared a bed in the downstairs dining room because the bedrooms were \"full of children.\" Capper continued to stay regularly even though Powell and McNeilly frequently bullied her. Her sister said: \"It was not that she was scared of them, it's just that she would do anything for them. She pampered their every whim.\"\n\nPowell was separated from her husband Glyn, although the two remained friendly and he would visit regularly from his nearby home. McNeilly's boyfriend was 16-year-old Anthony Dudson, who was also having sexual intercourse with Powell. Powell was sexually involved with Jeffrey Leigh, a regular visitor to the house as a purchaser of amphetamines. Another frequent visitor to the house was Powell's younger brother, Clifford Pook.\n\nAt trial, it emerged that Capper had been kidnapped for \"insubstantial, even trivial\" reasons: Jean Powell claimed that Capper had tried to persuade her to sleep with a man for money; McNeilly and Dudson had contracted pubic lice which they believed were from a bed that Capper had also used; and McNeilly believed that she had taken a pink duffle coat that belonged to her. In November 1992, when Dudson had contracted pubic lice and had his pubic hair shaved, McNeilly told him she thought that he had caught them from Capper. Dudson believed otherwise, and said later: \"I told Jean [Powell] I thought I got them from Bernie [McNeilly].\" On 7 December 1992, Capper was lured to Jean Powell's home, where Glyn Powell and Dudson were already waiting. She was grabbed as soon as she arrived and held down while Glyn Powell shaved her head and her eyebrows and then made her clean up the hair and place it in a bin. Then he placed a plastic bag over her head and walked round her while hitting her on the head. She was then kicked by Jean Powell and McNeilly as she lay curled up on the floor and both women took turns beating her with a three-foot-long (1 m) wooden instrument and a belt. She was then taken to the bathroom and forced to shave off her own pubic hair as \"ritual humiliation in revenge for having caused, as they claimed, Dudson and McNeilly themselves to be shaved.\" Afterwards Jean Powell locked her in a cupboard overnight. The following morning she was taken upstairs and locked in another cupboard. On 8 December she was transferred to McNeilly's house because of concern that Powell and McNeilly's six children were disturbed by Capper's crying. There she was tied spreadeagle to an upturned bed with electrical flex in a downstairs back room.\n\nOver the next five days Capper was subjected to a series of violent acts, \"increasing in severity and brutality as the time passed.\" She was regularly beaten and injected with amphetamines, burned with cigarettes, and had rave music—in particular \"Hi, I'm Chucky (Wanna Play?)\" by 150 Volts, featuring samples from the movie \"Child's Play\"—played at maximum volume through headphones. McNeilly would commence each torture session with the phrase \"Chucky’s coming to play\" and soon the words themselves were \nenough to make Capper scream. At some point during the week Pook and Leigh called at the house and were shown Capper, blindfolded and gagged, tied to the bed. By this time, Capper had been lying in her own urine and feces for several days and was placed in a bath containing concentrated disinfectant and scrubbed with a stiff brush with sufficient force to remove skin. Pook then used pliers to extract two of her teeth, which police later found at his house \"like some kind of macabre trophy.\" Dudson said: \"I was stood at the doorway with Jeanie [Powell] and Bernie [McNeilly]. Cliff [Pook] took her gag off. He told her to open her mouth. He said: 'Right, I'm going to rip your teeth out'. He started hitting her teeth with the pliers. He got the pliers on and started pulling it out. But it just snapped and chipped. Then he hit them a few more times. He put the pliers on again and really, really pulled. He pulled Suzanne's head forward until there was a snap and he had the tooth in the pliers. He did the same again and he was laughing.\"\n\nDavid Hill, 18, was asked to \"sit in\" at the house, and while there heard Dudson shout \"Shut up, you slag!\" in the back room. When he asked what was going on, Leigh had shown him Capper. He said: \"She had a sort of cloth over her face, from just above the eyebrows and covering her nose. She had a bit of dried blood on her lip. She had no hair.\" Hill also said he had heard them talking about \"dentistry work. It was something about pulling her teeth out with a pair of pliers.\" Later, he was left alone in the house with Capper, who pleaded with him to untie her. He said: \"She asked me if I could help but I told her I couldn't. I asked her who she was. She said her name was Suzanne. She asked me if I could untie her. I said I couldn't do anything.\" He later claimed that he was too afraid of Leigh to intervene or raise the alarm, saying: \"I thought they would batter me. If I'd said [anything] they'd all have got me, wouldn't they? I didn't know what to do. I was too shocked to do anything.\" While Capper was being held in the house, Leigh and Dudson met up with her sister's fiancé Paul Barlow to help him repair his car. Barlow said: \"They could have told me there and then. The door would have been kicked down and I would have got Suzanne out. I did not think they were capable of such savagery. Now all I want is ten minutes with them in a back room.\"\n\nThe six finally agreed that Capper had to be removed from the house after Michelle Capper told them her stepfather was going to report her to the police as a missing person. In the early hours of 14 December 1992, Capper was forced into the boot of a stolen white Fiat Panda car and driven 15 miles (25 km) to a narrow lane at Werneth Low near Romiley, on the outskirts of Stockport. In the car were McNeilly, the Powells and Dudson. McNeilly \"giggled\" as they made the journey. Capper was pushed down an embankment into a patch of brambles and then McNeilly poured petrol over her. Powell stated: \"Suzanne was still wobbly and fell over. Bernie [McNeilly] said 'Get up.' Bernie pushed her down the hill and poured petrol on her.\" When McNeilly had difficulty getting the petrol to ignite, Glyn Powell asked Dudson for some paper, who handed him a folded envelope which Powell then attempted to light and use as a taper. After three failed attempts, Dudson said: \"In the end he just went up to her with a lighter and lit her. He lit her on the back. She went straight up in flames and was screaming. The flames lit up the whole forest.\" McNeilly began to sing \"Burn baby burn! Burn baby burn!\" from The Trammps song \"Disco Inferno.\" Believing Capper to be dead, the four returned to Jean Powell's house, stopping to buy canned drinks on the way. Both Leigh and Pook were at the house when they arrived and Dudson stated: \"Cliff [Pook] asked Glyn [Powell], 'Have you done it?' Glyn said 'Yes' and he was laughing. He gave Cliff his lighter back.\"\n\nCapper had not died immediately as her murderers believed, and after they left she managed to scramble back up the embankment and stagger along the lane for approximately a quarter of a mile (400 metres) to Compstall Road before being found at 06:10 by Barry Sutcliffe and two of his colleagues on their way to work. She told them: \"Over there, in the field. They burnt me, they put petrol on me.\" They immediately took her to a nearby house and roused the residents, Michael and Margaret Coop, to call for an ambulance. Michael Coop said: \"Both her hands appeared like ash. Her legs were just like raw meat and her feet appeared to be badly charred. I was struck by how polite the victim was. She was constantly thanking my wife for her assistance.\" Margaret Coop said: \"I instinctively went to put my arms around her but she pulled away because she could not bear to be touched. Her head was shaved and there were recent, not new, cuts to her head. Her face was almost featureless. Her hands were red raw and black at the fingertips. Her legs were red from top to bottom. She couldn't bear anything near her legs.\" Capper drank six glasses of water, but was unable to hold the glass herself because of the injuries to her hands. Margaret Coop said: \"She looked like the victim of an attack in the Vietnam war. But I felt she would survive. I had this theory that, now she had got to somewhere she could be helped, she would live.\" Capper was rushed to the hospital and was able to give the names of her six assailants and Powell's address before falling into a coma. The extent of her burns was such that her mother and stepfather were unable to recognise her, and she was positively identified by a partial fingerprint from her thumb, the only part of her hands not severely burned. She died on 18 December 1992, without regaining consciousness.\n\nThe inquiry was led by Detective Inspector Peter Wall of Greater Manchester Police. At 07:30 on 14 December, he instructed officers to attend 97 Langworthy Road and arrest everyone that they found there. Jean Powell and McNeilly laughed and joked with each other as they were arrested. Initially, all six denied involvement. Under questioning, Dudson, who had been urged by his father to tell the truth, began to talk. D.I. Wall said of Dudson's statement: \"As the story began to unfold, we just couldn't believe it. I kept asking myself how one human being could do this to another.\" Police officers \"wept as the extent of Suzanne's suffering was revealed,\" and together with civilian staff at the station the police collected cash to send flowers to her at the hospital. On 17 December 1992, the six accused appeared before magistrates in Manchester and were remanded into custody charged with kidnapping and attempted murder. Following Capper's death they were charged with her murder on 23 December 1992.\n\nThe inquest was opened by Leonard Gorodkin at Manchester Coroner's Court on 8 January 1993. Dr William Lawler, a Home Office pathologist, testified that Capper had suffered 75–80 per cent burns consistent with having had petrol thrown over her and set alight, and that her chance of survival had been minimal. \"It was clear from the outset that Suzanne was unlikely to survive. She suffered widespread burns that led to several complications internally.\" Death was due to complications caused by these burns. The coroner said: \"It is clear that this young girl must have suffered a great deal of pain and had no chance of survival. But she did fortunately survive long enough to give information which led to the people mentioned being charged with her death.\" To Capper's mother and stepfather the coroner said: \"I offer you, not just on my behalf but on behalf of the whole nation, my very deepest sympathy and condolences at this tragic happening to your young daughter.\"\n\nThe trial commenced on 16 November 1993, and lasted 22 days. All six denied murder and in their testimonies each defendant tried to minimise their part in the crime. On 24 November, Clifford Pook was cleared of murder on the directions of the judge Mr. Justice Potts. The jury began their deliberations on 16 December 1993, and took nine hours and fifty-two minutes to reach their verdicts. Mr Justice Potts said: \"Each of you has been convicted on clear evidence of murder which was as appalling a murder as it is possible to imagine.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs the sentences were announced two jurors wept and there were cries of \"Yes! Yes!\" from the public gallery, which was filled with relatives of the victim. In a statement to the press after the sentencing D.I. Wall said: \"Psychological Reports say that these are absolutely sane individuals. It's frightening that they are such ordinary people. There is nothing special about any of them.\"\n\nLeigh appealed against his sentence, which was reduced from 12 years to 9 years on 4 November 1994. In 2002, Dudson's minimum tariff was cut from 18 years to 16 years. Dudson appealed again, arguing that the reduction was insufficient and that the Lord Chief Justice \"had failed to reflect the continuing obligation to have regard to Dudson's welfare.\" Lord Justice Kennedy and Mr Justice Mackay dismissed this second appeal on 21 November 2003. He was moved to an open prison in 2009.\n\nJean Powell and McNeilly were granted leave to have the lengths of their minimum sentences reviewed at the Court of Appeal in June 2012. McNeilly's sentence was reduced by one year.\n\nWhile she was incarcerated at HM Prison Durham, a routine security check in 1996 uncovered letters which revealed McNeilly had been having an affair with the prison governor, Mike Martin. The married officer resigned his position before disciplinary action could be taken. McNeilly, who was sharing a wing with Rosemary West and Myra Hindley, was immediately transferred to HM Prison New Hall.\n\nLeigh was freed early from his sentence in 1998, as was Pook in May 2001. Both were released on licence. McNeilly was released from prison in December 2014.\n\nThere was wide commentary in the news media about the social situation in and around Moston. Writing in \"The Times\", Jon Ronson focused on Manchester's apparent economic imbalance, pointing out that while \"superficially, it is a city of growth\"—hosting international environmental conferences in 1993 and bidding to host the 2000 Olympic Games—this could not disguise the realities of the poor quality of \"built-to-collapse\" housing, the city council's policy on homelessness, poverty, street violence and drug culture, all of which played parts in the events leading up to Capper's murder. The city, he said, had violent 'no-go' areas, where \"you can expect to be mugged,\" created through drug abuse and hopelessness, and populated by people who \"don't work, have no money, and rarely leave the houses that they find themselves living in before dark.\" Ronson highlighted a city of contrasts, where \"expensive canal-side cafes are springing up faster than you can count them: the joke around town is that you can sip cappuccino all day and gaze out at the corpses floating past.\" David Ward, writing in \"The Guardian\", similarly drew attention to the housing policies, and quoted an older Moston resident as saying: \"These people are moving in and out every three months. They're illiterate half of them—just shagging and having kids.\" \"The Daily Mail\"—in what Barker and Petley called \"ideological overdrive\"—described Capper's killers as \"the product of a society that tolerates petty crime, the break-up of families and feckless spending... Most of Suzanne's tormentors were on social security ... [and belong to] an underclass which is a grave threat to Britain's future.\" Author Carol Anne Davis agreed that when looking for answers about how this crime came about one need only \"look at the upbringings of these women who were single parents to three children by their mid twenties, had teenage boyfriends who were barely legal and who supported themselves through drug dealing and theft.\"\n\nDavis also noted the unusual situation in that \"a gang was involved and that two females were the sadistic leaders.\" Following the convictions of Powell and McNeilly, there was wider press speculation about \"girl gangs\" and the rise in violent crime committed by young women, and \"the probation service and ex-offender organisations found themselves bombarded with requests from journalists seeking out case histories to illustrate this apparent explosion of LA-style girl-gang culture on the streets of Britain.\" Mary Barnish, a senior probation officer at the Inner London Probation Service Women's Centre, dismissed the notion, saying: \"One woman does something somewhere and immediately there's a great moral panic. People think there's an epidemic of it.\" However, statistics and research produced by the National Association of Probation Officers did show \"an increase in the number of women jailed for offences involving violence.\" The association's assistant general secretary Harry Fletcher said that, like the women involved in the Capper murder, the group is \"characterised by neglect, personal abuse, drug or alcohol abuse and low self-esteem. Many have themselves been the victim of violence. The problem needs help rather than incarceration.\" In one of the \"starkest signs of change\" there was evidence that \"in the 15–17 age group, girls are more likely to take pleasure in violence than boys, an indication we may face far more female violence in the future as these girls grow up.\" Despite the focus on the female perpetrators around the time of the crime and trial Davis pointed out that, in cases like this which involved female and male sadists, \"the female's role is invariably forgotten over time. This was apparent when Dudson's appeals were reported in the national press. Manchester newspapers named all of the killers involved, but most less-localised reports simply referred to the 'violent gang' he belonged to, and it probably wouldn't have occurred to newer readers that this gang included two merciless female sadists who thought that an allegedly stolen duffle coat was an excuse to torture someone to death.\"\n\nThe moral panic was not confined solely to the gender of the murderers, but also the role played by so-called \"video nasties\". The news media immediately made a connection between the Bulger murder trial and the Capper murder trial when the horror movie \"Child's Play 3: Look Who's Stalking\" was mentioned as part of the testimonies. D.I. Wall said \"throughout interviews with the accused there was no suggestion that the reason Suzanne was killed had anything to do with \"Child's Play\" but this was overlooked by more sensationalist headlines (\"Demonic doll Chucky links the horror crimes\"; \"The curse of Chucky\"). Neither Powell or McNeilly owned a video recorder, and the \"Child's Play\"-inspired music that had been used to torture Capper was a popular track at the time, taped direct from Manchester's Piccadilly Radio. Broadcaster David Elstein called the video connection \"a false story... branded into the consciousness of the media,\" and questioned the news media's fascination with the film: \"There is no reason to believe that Suzanne Capper would be alive today if the audiotape had instead contained the torture scene from \"King Lear\", or a catchphrase from Bruce Forsyth ... But the \"Child's Play\" hare has been running ever since the last day of the James Bulger murder trial.\" Elstein argued that the film was simply a scapegoat which the press \"made a three-course meal out of.\" \"The Guardian\" reported that 21,000 four- to nine-year-olds watched each of BSkyB's two transmissions of \"Child's Play 3\"—but Elstein explained the figure was \"simply a projection based on an average of just two actual viewers from BARB's reporting panel, and that the margin of error means even the two may have been just one. But why spoil a good running story by asking what the figures mean?\"\n\nIn April 1994, Professor Elizabeth Newson published \"Video Violence and the Protection of Children\" (the \"Newson Report\") which attracted huge media interest due to its claims that it had \"definitively established the long sought-for link between screen violence and the real-life variety,\" and which cited the Capper murder as an example. Despite its support by the press, however, the report failed to demonstrate any definitive link, \"merely drawing inferences from ... often highly speculative accounts in the press rather than independent first-hand research.\" Newson was called to give oral evidence to the House of Commons Home Affairs Select Committee on Video Violence, where she asserted: \"The Suzanne Capper case is another example of very explicit imitation of video and the use of video and that was \"Child's Play 3\".\" The chairman of the committee, Sir Ivan Lawrence had to point out to Newson that this was incorrect, and that both the police and the British Board of Film Classification had ruled out any connection between the movie and the murder.\n\nThe link between the murders and \"Child's Play 3\" by the news media directly led to the delay of the release certification for both \"Natural Born Killers\" and \"Reservoir Dogs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47272134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47272134", "title": "New England Enzyme Center", "text": "New England Enzyme Center\n\nThe New England Enzyme Center (NEEC) was created at the Tufts University School of Medicine in Boston, Massachusetts in 1964 as a federally supported biochemical resource center.\n\nAccording to Doogab Yi, by the late 1970s NEEC had been transformed into \"several commercial biotech companies.\"\n\nRoscoe O. Brady and his colleagues at National Institutes of Health (NIH) were almost ready for a clinical trial for an enzyme replacement therapy for Gaucher's disease that they had been working on for over a decade. They could not purify the enzyme in large enough quantities.\n\nBlair had started his career in the biotechnology industry working as a technician at Tufts medical school. In 1978 Henry E. Blair, from the NEEC and a team of researchers including Peter G. Pentchev, Roscoe O. Brady, Daniel E. Britton and Susan H. Sorrell from the National Institutes of Health co-authored a paper in the PNAS isolating and comparing enzymes in search of a treatment for Gaucher disease.\n\nIn 1981 venture capitalist Sheridan Snyder, Henry Blair and George M. Whitesides created the start-up Genzyme and continued to produce the enzymes for the NIH. Genzyme's first office was an old clothing warehouse adjacent to Tufts Medical School.\n"}
{"id": "4439734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4439734", "title": "Of Man and Manta", "text": "Of Man and Manta\n\nOf Man and Manta is a trilogy of science fiction novels written by Piers Anthony. It consists of the three books: Omnivore (1968), Orn (1970), and (1975).\n\n\"Omnivore\" has as its frame the investigation of the deaths of eighteen travelers from Earth to the distant planet Nacre. Nacre is seen through the eyes of three surviving scientist-explorers: Cal, Veg, and Aquilon.\n\nThe planet Nacre's dominant species are fungi, including the intelligent \"mantas\". The mantas are soft-bodied creatures capable of high speeds and flight, superficially resembling manta rays. They are carnivores who farm the one extant herbivore species by protecting them from the voracious omnivore species. The planet is notable for its thick atmosphere, which allows flight to be performed with less energy, and permits the existence of air-borne phytoplankton. The herbivores eat the plankton, and the omnivores eat anything they can. The human characters' diets play an important role in their interaction with the native species. Aquilon eats a normal human diet—she is an omnivore. Veg is a vegetarian. Cal is forced to drink blood to survive, due to a medical condition. \n\n\"Orn\" involves travel by the scientists and \"mantas\" into a parallel dimension they dub Paleo, resembling the distant past of Earth, where they encounter dinosaur species and an intelligent flightless bird called \"Orn\". Orn has the ability of genetic memory, able to remember anything that happened to an ancestor prior to the time of their reproduction. Much of the plot conflict stems from the love triangle between the protagonists and the mysterious motives of a cybernetically-augmented government agent sent along to monitor their progress.\n\n\"\" involves the three scientists attempting to return to Earth from another dimension inhabited by hostile machines. Interlopers from other realities (using technology similar to that of the scientists' government) guide and hamper the explorers. A secondary story tells of a multidimensional cellular automaton energy being named and its attempts to share living space with an infant human male, a fledgling creature of Orn's species, and one of the manta-carnivores; their developing relationship leads to attempts to learn the reasons for their strange isolation from others of their kind, which eventually ties into the story of Cal, Veg, and Aquilon.\n\nLester del Rey found \"Orn\" to be \"the most enjoyable book by Anthony\" to date (1972), an improvement \"in many ways\" over \"Omnivore\".\n"}
{"id": "31521781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31521781", "title": "Pancho Daniel", "text": "Pancho Daniel\n\nPancho Daniel (?-1858) was a Californio bandit, leader of the Flores Daniel Gang who was lynched in November 1858 while awaiting trial for his involvement in the murder of Los Angeles County Sheriff James R. Barton.\n\nTogether with Juan Flores, Pancho Daniel led a band of fifty robbers in California. In 1857, the gang was reported to have robbed and murdered a German shopkeeper named George W. Pflugardt. Sheriff James Barton investigated the murder and, despite being warned against pursuing the band, he began to search for them. They were ambushed by the gang and Barton was killed, along with four of the men with him. Pancho Daniel was eventually captured in January 1858, and brought to Los Angeles to await trial.\n\nDaniel's defense attorney, Captain Cameron E. Thom, was dissatisfied with the jury that had been appointed for Daniel's trial, on the basis that he considered them unable to deliver an impartial verdict. When Judge Benjamin Ignatius Hayes dissolved this jury and appointed a new one, Thom insisted that the judge dissolve this one as well. Upon examining the third jury, Thom asserted that no jurors from Los Angeles would be able to be impartial in the case and requested for a trial in Santa Barbara County.\n\nOn 30 November 1858, a group of citizens of Los Angeles County gathered at the Los Angeles jail where Daniel was being held, dissatisfied with the delay in bringing Daniel to justice. Obtaining the keys from the jail keeper by force, some individuals brought Daniel out and hanged him from the cross beam of the jail gate. At the inquest, the judge returned a verdict of 'death from strangulation, by a crowd of persons to the jury unknown'.\n\nCalifornia Governor John B. Weller labelled this lynching as a 'barbarous and diabolical execution', issuing a reward of $1000 for the arrest of the perpetrators. Despite this, those responsible were never identified.\n\nSee Gold Dust and Gunsmoke: Tales of Gold Rush Outlaws, Gunfighters, Lawmen, and Vigilantes (1999) by John Boessenecker.\n"}
{"id": "869255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869255", "title": "Periodic points of complex quadratic mappings", "text": "Periodic points of complex quadratic mappings\n\nThis article describes periodic points of some complex quadratic maps. A map is a formula for computing a value of a variable based on its own previous value or values; a quadratic map is one that involves the previous value raised to the powers one and two; and a complex map is one in which the variable and the parameters are complex numbers. A periodic point of a map is a value of the variable that occurs repeatedly after intervals of a fixed length.\n\nThese periodic points play a role in the theories of Fatou and Julia sets.\n\nLet \n\nbe the complex quadric mapping, where formula_2 and formula_3 are complex-valued. \n\nNotationally, formula_4 is the formula_5 -fold composition of formula_6 with itself—that is, the value after the \"k\"-th iteration of function formula_7 Thus\n\nPeriodic points of a complex quadratic mapping of periodformula_9 are pointsformula_10 of the dynamical plane such that \n\nwhereformula_9 is the smallest positive integer for which the equation holds at that \"z\".\n\nWe can introduce a new function: \n\nso periodic points are zeros of function formula_14: points \"z\" satisfying\n\nwhich is a polynomial of degree formula_16\n\n \n\nThe multiplier (or eigenvalue, derivative) formula_17 of a rational map formula_18 iterated formula_19 times at cyclic point formula_20is defined as:\n\nwhere formula_22 is the first derivative offormula_23 with respect to formula_24 at formula_25.\n\nBecause the multiplier is the same at all periodic points on a given orbit, it is called a multiplier of the periodic orbit.\n\nThe multiplier is:\n\nA periodic point is\n\nPeriodic points\n\nLet us begin by finding all points left unchanged by one application of formula_34. These are the points that satisfy formula_35. That is, we wish to solve\n\nwhich can be rewritten as\n\nSince this is an ordinary quadratic equation in one unknown, we can apply the standard quadratic solution formula:\n\nSo for formula_40 we have two fixed points formula_41 and formula_42.\n\nSince \n\nthen formula_46.\n\nThus fixed points are symmetrical around formula_47.\n\nHere different notation is commonly used:\n\nand \n\nUsing Viète's formulas one can show that:\n\nSince the derivative with respect to z is \n\nthen \n\nThis implies that formula_55 can have at most one attractive fixed point. \n\nThese points are distinguished by the facts that:\n\nAn important case of the quadratic mapping is formula_61. In this case, we get formula_62 and formula_63. In this case, 0 is a superattractive fixed point, and 1 belongs to the Julia set.\n\nWe have formula_64 exactly when formula_65 This equation has one solution, formula_66 in which case formula_67. In fact formula_68 is the largest positive, purely real value for which a finite attractor exists.\n\nWe can extend the complex plane formula_69 to the Riemann sphere (extended complex plane) formula_70 by adding infinity :\n\nand extending polynomial formula_72such that formula_73\n\nThen infinity is :\n\nPeriod-2 cycles are two distinct points formula_76 and formula_77 such that formula_78 and formula_79.\n\nWe write formula_80\n\nEquating this to \"z\", we obtain\n\nThis equation is a polynomial of degree 4, and so has four (possibly non-distinct) solutions. However, we already know two of the solutions. They are formula_83 and formula_84, computed above, since if these points are left unchanged by one application of formula_34, then clearly they will be unchanged by more than one application of formula_34.\n\nOur 4th-order polynomial can therefore be factored in 2 ways:\n\nThis expands directly as formula_88 (note the alternating signs), where\n\nWe already have two solutions, and only need the other two. Hence the problem is equivalent to solving a quadratic polynomial. In particular, note that\n\nand\n\nAdding these to the above, we get formula_95 and formula_96. Matching these against the coefficients from expanding formula_34, we get\n\nFrom this, we easily get\n\nFrom here, we construct a quadratic equation with formula_102 and apply the standard solution formula to get\n\nCloser examination shows that :\n\nmeaning these two points are the two points on a single period-2 cycle.\n\nWe can factor the quartic by using polynomial long division to divide out the factors formula_107 and formula_108 which account for the two fixed points formula_83 and formula_84 (whose values were given earlier and which still remain at the fixed point after two iterations):\n\nThe roots of the first factor are the two fixed points. They are repelling outside the main cardioid.\n\nThe second factor has the two roots\n\nThese two roots, which are the same as those found by the first method, form the period-2 orbit.\n\nAgain, let us look at formula_61. Then\n\nboth of which are complex numbers. We have formula_116. Thus, both these points are \"hiding\" in the Julia set.\nAnother special case is formula_117, which gives formula_118 and formula_119. This gives the well-known superattractive cycle found in the largest period-2 lobe of the quadratic Mandelbrot set.\n\nThe degree of the equation formula_120 is 2; thus for example, to find the points on a 3-cycle we would need to solve an equation of degree 8. After factoring out the factors giving the two fixed points, we would have a sixth degree equation.\n\nThere is no general solution in radicals to polynomial equations of degree five or higher, so the points on a cycle of period greater than 2 must in general be computed using numerical methods. However, in the specific case of period 4 the cyclical points have lengthy expressions in radicals.\n\nIn the case \"c\" = –2, trigonometric solutions exist for the periodic points of all periods. The case formula_121 is equivalent to the logistic map case \"r\" = 4: formula_122 Here the equivalence is given by formula_123 One of the \"k\"-cycles of the logistic variable \"x\" (all of which cycles are repelling) is \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9892844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9892844", "title": "Pet in TV", "text": "Pet in TV\n\nPet in TV, known in Japan as , is a pet-raising simulation developed and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. The game was released in Japan in May 1997, and later in Europe in August 1998. \"Pet in TV\" consists of teaching a virtual pet known as a PiT (Pet in TV) tricks, getting it new costumes and learning it what items are edible in the wild along with solving random puzzles around the PiT world.\n\n\"Pet in TV\" on release gained very bad reviews for its lack of gameplay, storyline and lasting appeal. It was re-released on the Japanese PlayStation Network for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable on February 22, 2007. The game and its Japan-exclusive sequel, \"Pet in TV with my dear Dog\", were developed by the same team responsible for the \"Jumping Flash!\" series.\n\nThe player can choose from a selection of PiTs and name it. It is then up to the player to nurture their PiT and allow it to explore the 3D world, learning from its encounters with scenery and objects through trial-and-error. Once these behaviours are learned, the PiT will know how to respond to those objects in the future (such as a Flower, or a Spike). Whenever the PiT becomes injured, or tired, returning it to its home will allow Dr. Y to fix it.\n\nThe objective then becomes for the player's PiT to solve puzzles on its own - for which it will be rewarded with AI upgrade chips.\n\n\"PlayStation Power\" gave the game a rating of 59%, and said it was \"dull for adults\" and \"a bit bland\".\n"}
{"id": "57321295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57321295", "title": "Phongyibyan", "text": "Phongyibyan\n\nPhongyibyan (; also spelt pongyibyan or phongyibyan pwe) is a Burmese language term for the ceremonial cremation of high-ranking Buddhist monks, in particular monks from Myanmar's largest Buddhist order, the Thudhamma Nikaya. Controversy has surrounded the expenses involved in financing such expensive ceremonies.\n\nPhongyibyan is widely observed by Buddhists throughout Myanmar, including the Bamar, Mon, Rakhine, and Shan peoples. Similarly elaborate cremation ceremonies, congruous with those in Myanmar, are also held by the Northern Thai people. Among the Shan and Lanna peoples, the ceremony is known as poy law (ပွႆးလေႃ or ปอยล้อ), which literally means \"ceremony of the cart,\" whereby \"poy\" is a Burmese loanword meaning \"festival\" or \"ceremony\" (cf. Poy Sang Long).\n\nThe ceremonial cremation does not necessarily occur immediately after a monk's death. In Northern Thailand, they are typically held between December and March; and in Myanmar, these ceremonies are not held during the Vassa (Buddhist lent). The ceremony typically lasts between 3 to 7 days, depending on the ability of worshippers to organize and finance the ceremonies.\n\nSome rites have parallels to accounts of the Buddha’s own funeral found in the Mahaparinibbana Sutta. An elaborate set of ceremonies, including staged plays, ritual performances, and construction of temporary pyre structures, constitute the cremation. Immediately after the monk's death, the body is embalmed. After the cremation, the remains are collected and housed in a reliquary.\nA temporary mortuary chapel called \"neibban kyaung\" (နိဗ္ဗာန်ကျောင်း), with a multi-tiered pyatthat roof, is constructed to house the coffin. The monk may lie in state for several months, while donations are gathered to fund the cremation ceremonies. A massive funerary pyre tower called \"laungdaik\" (လောင်တိုက်), representing Mount Meru, along with numerous subsidiary towers, is also constructed by specialist bamboo artisans called \"sat-hsaya\" (စပ်ဆရာ).\nCeremonial crematory hearses are often constructed for the cremation, often featuring mythical animals. These hearses or floats are used to transport the coffin to the funerary pyre. The Burmese use hearses featuring hamsa. While the Shan construct hearses featuring the karaweik (a mythical bird), their Northern Thai counterparts build hearses featuring the nok hatsadiling (นกหัสดีลิงค์), a mythical elephant-headed bird. The pyre is often ignited using rockets or fireworks.\n\nAnother important ritual during the phongyibyan is a tug-of-war of the funerary pyres, called \"lun hswe\" (လွန်ဆွဲ) in Burmese, and \"lak prasat\" (ลากปราสาท, lit. \"pulling of the prasat\") in Thai. This tug-of-war is believed to generate merit. The Rakhine people perform the \"tala aka\" (တလားအက) during the cremation ceremony, whereby around two dozen men carry the bedecked coffin using a bamboo frame, while dancing in unison to the tune of a Burmese hsaing waing orchestra.\n\nA staged play called \"eiyin\" (ဧယင်), which reflects the pain of the living mourning the departed and combines the Buddhist concept of rebirth and the monk's virtues and life, is performed from the moment the coffin leaves the monastery to the time of cremation. These performances are held during the daytime, generally held in temporary gilt pavilions called \"san kyaung\" (စံကျောင်း), which are erected in the monastery grounds or the village squares.\n\n"}
{"id": "230325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230325", "title": "Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire", "text": "Pokémon Ruby and Sapphire\n\nThe gameplay is mostly unchanged from the previous games; the player controls the main character from an overhead perspective, and the controls are largely the same as those of previous games. As with previous games, the main objectives are to catch all of the Pokémon in the games and defeat the Elite Four (a group of Pokémon trainers); also like their predecessors, the games' main subplot involves the main character defeating a criminal organization that attempts to take over the region. New features, such as double battles and Pokémon abilities along with 135 new Pokémon, have been added. As the Game Boy Advance is more powerful than its predecessors, four players may be connected at a time instead of the previous limit of two. Additionally, the games can be connected to an e-Reader or other advanced generation \"Pokémon\" games.\n\n\"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" received mostly positive reviews, though critics were divided in their assessment of the games, especially on the gameplay and graphics. Most of the complaints focused on the fact that the gameplay had not changed much since previous generations, and the connectivity issues revolving around the past generations. With the popularity of Pokémon waning at the time, the games sold less than previous generations. However, they were still critical and commercial successes; with around 16 million copies sold according to IGN, they are the best-selling games for the Game Boy Advance.\n\nThe basic mechanics of \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" are largely the same as their predecessors'. As with all \"Pokémon\" games for hand-held consoles, gameplay is in third-person, overhead perspective and consists of three basic screens: a field map, in which the player navigates the main character; a battle screen; and the menu, in which the player configures their party, items, or gameplay settings. The player begins the game with one Pokémon, and can capture more using Poké Balls. The player can also use their Pokémon to battle other Pokémon. When the player encounters a wild Pokémon or is challenged by a trainer to a battle, the screen switches to a turn-based battle screen where the Pokémon fight. During battle, the player may fight, use an item, switch their active Pokémon, or flee (the last is not an option in battles against trainers). All Pokémon have hit points (HP); when a Pokémon's HP is reduced to zero, it faints and cannot battle until it is revived. If the player's Pokémon defeats the opposing Pokémon (causes it to faint), it receives experience points. After accumulating enough experience points, it may level up; most Pokémon evolve into a new species of Pokémon when they reach a certain level.\n\nApart from battling, capturing Pokémon is the most essential element of \"Pokémon\" gameplay. During battle with a wild Pokémon (other trainers' Pokémon cannot be captured), the player may use a Poké Ball on the wild Pokémon. If successful, the Pokémon will be added to the player's active party (or stored if the player already has the maximum six Pokémon in his/her party). Factors in the success rate of capture include the HP (and/or status effects such as Paralysis or Sleep,) of the target Pokémon and the strength of the Poké Ball used: the lower the target's HP and the stronger the Poké Ball, the higher the success rate of capture is.\n\nThe most prominent change in the battle mechanics is the introduction of double battles, in which the opposing parties each use two Pokémon at the same time. Consequently, certain Pokémon moves can affect multiple combatants at once. Multi battles were added alongside double battles. They are identical to double battle, but there are two trainers to a side, each controlling one of the two Pokémon sent out. Also new to the games are innate abilities and natures; the former is shared by every Pokémon of a certain species, while the latter may vary among a particular species. Abilities grant their holders certain powers in battle, such as immunity against certain types of moves or strengthening a certain type of move. Natures, like innate abilities, affect the strength of Pokémon in battle; however, they affect the stats of the Pokémon rather than directly affecting the strength of the moves. Another stat introduced in \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" is Condition, an important factor in Pokémon Contests, mini-games in which participants perform moves before a judge. Both Pokémon and their moves have a Condition, which is increased by using Pokéblocks (candies made from berries). \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" were the first games to have different weather conditions (sunny, rain, hail, and sandstorm), and these affected battle in unique ways. Secret bases were added as a one off feature where players could open up a hole in the world and customize the place with various items picked up in game. Players who linked up with others who set up secret bases were able to battle an NPC version of that trainer within their secret base.\n\nLike \"Pokémon Gold\", \"Silver\", and \"Crystal\", \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" keep track of real-life time; this influences events like tides and berry plant growth. However, unlike their predecessors, \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" do not differentiate between day and night. Also, due to the differences in the technical specifications of Game Boy link cables and Game Boy Advance link cables, \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" cannot be linked with Pokémon games of previous generations; one cannot battle with or trade to the previous generations.\n\n\"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" have limited e-Reader support. Nintendo released Battle-e Cards, a set of e-Reader cards that contained trainer battles in which the player could see previously-hidden Pokémon. A special e-Reader card called the Eon Ticket was also released; obtained through the Mystery Gift function, the Ticket allows the player to reach a place called Southern Island. There, the player faces either Latios or Latias, depending on which version the player is using.\n\n\"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" are also able to connect to the GameCube games \"Pokémon Colosseum\", \"\" and \"\". In the former two, once players reach a certain point in the game, they are able to transfer Pokémon between \"Colosseum\"/\"XD\" and \"Ruby\"/\"Sapphire\". Additionally, those who pre-ordered \"Colosseum\" were able to access the Pokémon Jirachi and see a preview of the movie \"\". \"Box\", a so-called Pokémon \"Microsoft Office\", allows players to store and organize their Pokémon on the GameCube. Also, in the European version of \"Pokémon Channel\", players could receive a Jirachi at a certain point in the game, which they could then transfer over to \"Ruby\"/\"Sapphire\".\n\n\"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" take place in the Hoenn region, located some distance from the Kanto and Johto regions featured in previous games. The design of Hoenn was based on the Japanese island and region of Kyushu; however Hoenn is rotated 90° relative to Kyushu, as Junichi Masuda felt that it would provide a better gameplay balance. Like Kyushu, Hoenn possesses many smaller islands, and part of the region is dominated by sea routes, several of which contain areas where the player can dive underwater.\n\nLike other \"Pokémon\" games, \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\"'s gameplay is linear; the main events occur in a fixed order. The protagonist of \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" is a child who has recently moved to a small town called Littleroot Town. At the beginning of the games, the player chooses either Treecko, Torchic, or Mudkip to protect Professor Birch, the regional professor, from an attacking poochyena. After defending Birch, the player is taken to his lab and receives the chosen Pokémon as his or her starter Pokémon with the choice of Mudkip, Treecko, or Torchic. After that the player encounters May, daughter of Professor Birch. The player's rival, who appears as the professor's child, is also a Pokémon Trainer and occasionally battles the player. The games' two main goals are defeating the eight Gym Leaders, proving oneself worthy of challenging the Elite Four and Champion to become the new Champion and completing the Pokédex by capturing, evolving, and trading to obtain all 202 Pokémon (It is possible to obtain all 386 Pokémon, but this requires trading with \"Pokémon FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\").\n\nIn addition to the main quest of defeating the Gym Leaders, there are side quests in which the player can aid NPCs by fulfilling tasks, usually by obtaining items. The most prominent subplot involves Team Aqua and Team Magma, crime syndicates who want to use Pokémon to alter the climate of Hoenn: in \"Ruby\", the villains, Team Magma, want to use the legendary Pokémon Groudon to dry up the oceans of Hoenn and increase the region's landmass; in \"Sapphire\", the Team Aqua are the villains and they try to use Groudon's counterpart, Kyogre, to flood the landmasses of Hoenn and increase the region's ocean. Prior to facing the eighth Gym Leader, the player has a showdown with Magma/Aqua where the team's leader uses a mystical orb that awakens the slumbering Pokémon, believing it has the power to enthrall their respective target, only for the Pokémon to become enraged and cause catastrophic, region-wide climate changes—a drought in \"Ruby\", and heavy rainfall in \"Sapphire\"—until it is defeated or captured by the player. The player's father also introduces the player to Wally, a sickly young boy whom the player helps capture a Pokémon to be his companion as he moves away from the big city. Wally eventually overcomes his illness and becomes a successful Pokémon trainer, ultimately becoming the final challenger the player must face before the Elite Four.\n\n\"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" were developed by Game Freak and Nintendo under the direction of Junichi Masuda. As with its predecessors, Ken Sugimori was the art director, although these were the first games in which he did not single-handedly produce all of the art. When asked where his design team came up with the ideas for all of the new Pokémon, Sugimori stated that they got their ideas from past experiences in their childhood involving nature, animals, and the media and then base them on insects. Even looking at the world in a different perspective sometimes provided inspiration for the creatures. \"First we select an insect and after that we add essential elements to the insects to make it more like Pokemon, such as adding some hard shape to it, to be more like steel,\" Sugimori said, describing the process of creating a Pokémon.\n\nAs the Game Boy Advance was able to handle newer, enhanced graphics, \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" were the first games in the series that allowed up to four people to share information at one time, as opposed to the previous limit of two. However, the development team used a more basic graphics engine in order to keep the game simple and not overly confusing. The team wanted the games to appeal to a large audience, so the game was designed to be easy enough for younger generations of children to play, but new features were added to bring the veteran gamers back.\n\nMasuda stated that the basic philosophy of all \"Pokémon\" games is communication; in the \"Pokémon\" series, this is manifested in trading and battling with other people. When asked about the new concept of double battles, the developers noted that they tried to focus more on the original one-on-one battles as the main type of competition and only added the double battles as a \"new challenge\". They stated that if they receive positive feedback about the double battles, the feature may appear more in future generations.\n\nThe games were the first in the series that did not contain all of the Pokémon from previous generations. Sugimori stated that the team tried to include all the new Pokémon as well as some from previous generations. When asked about any features that could not be included due to technical restrictions, Masuda noted that he wanted each individual Pokémon to make up to three different cries depending on its mood.\n\nNintendo did not promote \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" at the 2002 E3 convention; however, it launched a USD $7 million promotional campaign that lasted from March to May 2003. In addition to rewarding pre-orders of the games with merchandise, Nintendo held a contest in which participants submitted videos of themselves singing the Pokémon theme song with their own re-written lyrics; the grand prize for that event was a Lugia PT Cruiser. Later that year, Nintendo launched the EON Ticket Summer Tour, in which 125 Toys 'R' Us stores across the United States offered the Eon Ticket e-Card in stores from July 19 to September 1. Nintendo aired two television advertisements, \"Faces\" and \"Names\", on prime-time network, cable, and syndication. \"Faces\" featured Pokémon juxtaposed with human look-alikes; \"Names\" featured people shouting out the names of Pokémon and emphasized the fact that the games introduced 100 new Pokémon. Additionally, Nintendo collaborated with United Kingdom beverage brand Vimto to promote the games.\n\nThe audio of \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" consists entirely of game music; all dialogue is on-screen. The music, composed by Junichi Masuda, Go Ichinose and Morikazu Aoki, is completely instrumental except for two tracks with vocals, \"Trick Master\" and \"Slateport City\". The soundtrack of the game was released under the Mediafactory label in Japan on April 26, 2003; the album reached #297 on the Oricon charts and charted for one week. Junichi Masuda wrote only battle tunes, Go Ichinose wrote most of the town, route, fanfare & 'Spotted' tunes, whereas Morikazu Aoki did the remainder.\n\nThe soundtrack is noted for its heavy use of trumpets.\n\nThe games met with mostly positive reviews. IGN gave them an \"Amazing\" 9.5 out of 10 rating and awarded them the Editor's Choice Award; in 2007, the games were collectively named the tenth best Game Boy Advance game of all time in an IGN article. GameZone also gave the games a 9.5 out of 10 rating and gave the games an Outstanding Award. GamePro gave the games 5 out of 5 stars and named them Editor's Choices. ComputerAndVideoGames.com gave the games a 9 of 10, and GameSpot gave the games 8.1 out of 10. Eurogamer and 1UP.com were less enthusiastic about the games, however; Eurogamer gave the games 7 out of 10, and 1UP gave the games a B-.\n\nReviewers were divided in their critiques of the games, especially concerning the gameplay and graphics. IGN praised the \"deep design\" and noted that the addition of features such as double battles greatly increased the strategic aspect of the games. GamePro also thought that the addition of double battles \"add[ed] challenge\" and \"made the harder battles far more strategic than before—the way the game should be\". Likewise, ComputerAndVideoGames.com called the gameplay \"incredibly compelling and addictive\". GameZone noted that the gameplay was more refined and challenging than that of previous titles. However, GameSpot called the games \"a cakewalk from start to finish\" and claimed that \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" \"don't offer much of a challenge\". Eurogamer also felt that the mechanics \"[get] very tired, very fast\". 1UP.com also felt that the games were formulaic and that double battles were underused.\n\nComputerAndVideoGames.com was enthusiastic over the graphics, calling them \"gorgeous\". Other reviewers were less enthusiastic, however. GamePro felt that the graphics were only \"a fair bit prettier\" than those of the Game Boy color games; GameZone said that the games \"still [use] the simple animations and basic character designs that were created for the original, color-less Game Boy\". IGN and 1UP.com noted that the graphics had received only a minor upgrade, and Eurogamer felt that the graphics had been upgraded to a \"functional level at best\". The audio was generally well-received: GameZone and GameSpot both felt the audio was catchy; GameZone gave the audio an 8 out of 10 score, saying that while the music \"was annoying at times, [...] it's also very good. [...] I found myself humming the music when I wasn't playing\". Other complaints included the removal of the time system of \"Gold\" and \"Silver\" and the inability to import Pokémon from the games of previous generations.\n\n\"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" were highly anticipated. In Japan, they sold 1.25 million units within the first four days of release and were the best-selling games of the 2002 holiday season; sales totaled around 4.4 million within six weeks of release. They also became the first games to sell 2 million copies in Japan since 2001's \"Final Fantasy X\" and the first games for a hand-held console to do so since 2000's \"Yu-Gi-Oh! Duel Monsters 4\". In North America, Nintendo sold 2.2 million units by April 2003 (within one month of the games' North American release) in the region alone. \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" were the second and third best-selling games, respectively, of 2003. The games enjoyed success in Europe as well. They were the second best-selling games of the holiday season in 2002; even before release, European retailers imported cartridges from the United States to meet the high demand for the games. With around 16 million units sold worldwide, the games are the best-selling titles ever for the Game Boy Advance. However, analysts noted that with \"young kids...gravitating toward Yu-Gi-Oh!\" at the time, Pokémon's popularity was waning. This was reflected in the games' sales compared to those of previous generations: \"Red\" and \"Blue\" sold nearly 27 million units worldwide, and \"Gold\" and \"Silver\" sold over 23 million units.\n\n is an enhanced version of \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\", developed by Game Freak, published by The Pokémon Company and Nintendo for the Game Boy Advance. It was released in Japan on September 16, 2004, North America on May 1, 2005, Australia on June 9, 2005, and Europe on October 21, 2005.\n\nAlthough the gameplay is as that of \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\", \"Emerald\" introduces new features. The plot is modified; both Team Magma and Aqua are villains who are locked in a constant gang war and awaken Groudon and Kyogre, respectively. When the two legendary Pokémon begin to battle each other, the protagonist must unleash the legendary Pokémon Rayquaza (pictured on the box cover) to calm them. Some of the game mechanics are changed as well. Though double battles were clearly marked in \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\", in \"Emerald\", two separate trainers might unite to battle as a pair (fixed in games thereafter). After the Elite Four is defeated, the player may re-battle Gym Leaders in a double battle if they are called on their PokéNav. Also, Pokémon sprites are animated in battle like they were in \"Pokémon Crystal\". Probably the most significant addition is the Battle Frontier, an expanded version of the Battle Tower in \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\".\n\nAnother change made in \"Emerald\" is the addition of Team Magma's base on the side of Mt. Chimney; moreover, the legendary Pokémon Groudon is found here, rather than in the Seafloor Cavern. Even though the locations of the legendary Pokémon are different, Team Magma still makes the mistake of taking the blue orb to Groudon, while Team Aqua still makes the mistake of taking the red orb to Kyogre. A new character named Scott is also introduced in this game. Unknown to the player, he is the creator of the Battle Frontier. He follows the player throughout the game, watching them battle each Gym Leader and even meeting up with them when they get to the Battle Frontier.\n\n\"Emerald\" has been generally well received. The game has an aggregate rating of 77% on GameRankings. GameSpot gave it a 7.5 out of 10; IGN gave it an \"Impressive\" rating of 8.0 out of a possible 10. Eurogamer, however, gave \"Emerald\" a score of 6 out of 10. Though it praised \"Emerald\" for looking better than either \"Ruby\" or \"Sapphire\" and for having harder and longer gameplay, it criticized the game for not even being a \"half changed update [...] but more of a director's cut\". \"Emerald\" was the second best-selling game in the United States of ; it sold 6.32 million copies, making it the third-best selling game for the Game Boy Advance.\n\nIn 2011, it was reported that the game was still selling in Japan in 2010 with approximately 7,724 units sold that year.\n\nPokémon Box: Ruby and Sapphire, or simply Pokémon Box, is a spin-off \"Pokémon\" game for the GameCube console, bundled with a Nintendo GameCube – Game Boy Advance link cable and a Memory Card 59. It was released in Japan on May 30, 2003 and in North America on July 11, 2004, but only through the New York Pokémon Center and its online store. It is no longer available in either location. The game was released in some parts of Europe as Pokémon Memory Magic due to translation problems, and Europeans only could get the game by using points from Nintendo of Europe's loyalty program, or by buying the \"Pokémon Colosseum Mega Pack\".\n\nThe game is essentially a storage system for the Game Boy Advance \"Pokémon\" games that allows players to trade and store Pokémon that they have caught in \"Ruby\", \"Sapphire\", \"Emerald, \"\"FireRed\", and \"LeafGreen\" onto a GameCube memory card. Players can then organize and interact with their Pokémon on the GameCube, such as allowing them to breed. Unique Pokémon can also be acquired. Another feature allows the games to be played on the television via the GameCube Game Boy Advance Cable. Options such as taking screenshots of the game are available in this mode. Another addition is the \"Showcase\", where players can create and display game pieces of Pokémon.\n\nNintendo referred to the game as \"the most exclusive Pokémon software ever offered to North American Pokémon fans,\" but it was generally considered to be unnecessary, receiving a score of 50% on GameRankings from 1 review. Craig Harris of IGN gave the game a \"\" rating of 5.0 out of 10, praising the interface, which makes the organization of Pokémon much easier as compared to the Game Boy Advance interface, as well as the emulator which allows \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" to be played on the GameCube. He also stated that the game was a good deal due to the inclusion of a Memory Card and Cable. However, Harris cited the \"Showcase\" as \"entirely unnecessary and completely out of place,\" and said that overall the game lacked much to do. He wrote, \"It's targeted specifically for the truly die-hard Pokemon fan, but it requires so many specific elements to actually be useful to anyone.\" Allgame gave the game three and a half out of five stars.\n\nOn May 7, 2014, Nintendo announced that a remake of \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\", titled \"Omega Ruby\" and \"Alpha Sapphire\", and it was released for the Nintendo 3DS on November 21, 2014 worldwide, with the exclusion of Europe, where it was released on November 28, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854885", "title": "Potenciano Aliño", "text": "Potenciano Aliño\n\nPotenciano Aliño (c. 1864 – 1909) was a Cebuano Visayan writer. He is credited for having first translated Jose Rizal's \"Mi Ultimo Adios\" (Kataposan nga Panamilit).\n\nHe is a member of the Great Aliño clan of Cebu City. He is a descendant of the First King of Cebu province – Sri Lo Mai, whose descendant is Raja Humabon. Potenciano's ancestor is Raja Humabon's cousin, Tupas, who was considered as the last king of Cebu, consequently, the Spaniards came and took over leadership of the whole archipelago. Tupas was the first to bear the name Aliño.\n\nPotenciano is one of the noted Tres Aliños of Talisay, Cebu, which gave them honor by naming a street in Talisay after them. They are the leader of the revolution against the Spaniards during their last remaining years in the Philippines. They also fought against the Americans. The other guerrillas collaborated with the Americans and were honored and given rewards by their enemies. His brothers, Felix and Hilario, fought alongside with him in their cause. Other brothers were Gervacio and Valentin. the first encounter against the Americans happened in Badian town in southwestern Cebu. A brother was captured by Muslim pirates and was brought to Jolo, Sulo and married an Imam's daughter. other descendants went to Mindanao and established their own families. Potenciano was known to be a good sailor, he was a skipper of a ship which traveled up north. He spent some time in Nueva Ecija and the Ilocos regions and sired a number of children.\n\nThe Tres Aliños were said to possess magical powers and were strong physically, they bent prison bars during their imprisonment and got away. They were in hiding most of the time during the wars. When his wife died, he wore a woman's dress and went to the wake as a woman. Nobody noticed him during that visit.\n\nSome well known descendants of the Aliño clan are the former AFP Chief of Staff, General Lisandro Abadia, General Loven Abadia, former Police Director General Santiago Aliño, General George Aliño.\n"}
{"id": "24356432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24356432", "title": "Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy", "text": "Pulsed electromagnetic field therapy\n\nPulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT), also known as low field magnetic stimulation (LFMS), and tumor treating fields (TTF) uses electromagnetic fields in an attempt to heal non-union fractures, glioblastomas (brain tumors) and depression. By 2007 the FDA had cleared several such stimulation devices.\n\nIn 2013 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned a manufacturer for promoting the device for unapproved uses such as cerebral palsy and spinal cord injury.\n\nThe mechanism of osteogenesis is not clear. While PEMF therapy is claimed to offer some benefit in the treatment of fractures, the evidence is inconclusive and is insufficient to inform current clinical practice.\n\nElectromagnetic field therapy has been in use since the invention of electricity. It was widely adopted in East and Western Europe but its use was restricted to animals in North America until recently. Veterinarians became the first health professionals to use PEMF therapy, usually to heal broken legs in racehorses.\nIn 2004, a pulsed electromagnetic field system was approved by the FDA as an adjunct to cervical fusion surgery in patients at high risk for non-fusion. On 13 October 2015 the FDA reclassified PEMF devices from the Class 3 category to a Class 2 status. PEMF devices that have been FDA cleared to make health claims that require a doctor's prescription for use.\n\nAlthough electricity’s potential to aid bone healing was reported as early as 1841, it was not until the mid-1950s that scientists seriously studied the subject. During the 1970s, Bassett and his team introduced a new approach for the treatment of delayed fractures, a technique that employed a very specific biphasic low frequency signal to be applied for non-union/delayed fractures. The use of electrical stimulation in the lumbosacral region was first attempted by Alan Dwyer of Australia. In 1974, he reported successful initiation of graft incorporation in 11 of 12 fusion patients.\n\nThe original PEMF devices consisted of a Helmholtz coil which generated a magnetic field. The patient's body was placed inside the magnetic field to deliver treatment. Today, the majority of PEMF wellness devices resemble a typical yoga mat in dimensions but are slightly thicker to house several flat spiral coils to produce an even electromagnetic field. A frequency generator is then used to energize the coils to create a pulsed electromagnetic field. A wide variety of professional and consumer PEMF devices are sold and marketed as FDA registered wellness devices. The majority are manufactured in Germany, Austria and Switzerland and are imported into North America as electric massagers or full body electric yoga mats. They are either placed on a massage table for clinical use or directly on the floor in the home to practice simple yoga postures. The companies that sell and manufacture them as \"general wellness products\" are not permitted to make medical claims of effectiveness in treating disease.\n\nA 2013 review found that evidence was of very low quality, there might be a benefit for improved function, and there was no evidence for benefit for pain.\n\nUse of pulsed electromagnetic field therapy has been studied for depression.\n\n"}
{"id": "9674780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9674780", "title": "Robert Anderton", "text": "Robert Anderton\n\nRobert Anderton (c. 1560 – 25 April 1586) was an English Roman Catholic priest and martyr. He has been declared 'Blessèd' by the Roman Catholic Church. His feast day is 25 April.\n\nRobert Anderton was born in Lancashire about 1560. around 1560. He probably attended Brasenose College and graduated from Oxford University in 1578. While at Reims, Anderton was regarded as an excellent preacher, and a gifted teacher. He was ordained 31 March 1585.\n\nWilliam Marsden was also born in Lancashire, and probably attended St Mary Hall, Oxford.\n\nAnderton and Marsden were friends from early youth and attended Oxford together, although at different colleges. The two travelled to Douai, where they converted to Roman Catholicism. They entered the English College at Reims in 1580. The two were ordained to the priesthood there, and made prefects over the junior school.\n\nUpon finishing their studies, Anderton and Marsden set out for England on 4 February 1586. They were caught in a storm while crossing the English Channel and prayed to die on land rather than at sea. Their ship being driven ashore by the storm onto the Isle of Wight, they were quickly seized by the local authorities. In court, they pleaded that they had not violated the law by landing in England, as their landing was involuntary, being forced ashore by the storm.\n\nThis led to their being summoned to London, where they were given the opportunity to take the Oath of Supremacy, acknowledging Elizabeth as the Supreme Governor of the Church of England. Although they acknowledged Elizabeth as their lawful queen in all secular affairs, they would not swear the Oath. As failure to take the oath was considered treason under the Second Act of Supremacy, Anderton and Marsden were found guilty of treason. The sentence was then confirmed, and a proclamation was published, explaining their guilt. They were taken back to the Isle of Wight near the spot where they had landed and executed by hanging, drawing, and quartering on 25 April 1586.\n\nHe was beatified by Pope Pius XI in 1929.\n\n"}
{"id": "23363777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23363777", "title": "Rodolfo de Anda", "text": "Rodolfo de Anda\n\nRodolfo de Anda (July 6, 1943 – February 1, 2010) was a Mexican actor most well known for his roles in the film \"La gran aventura del Zorro\" and the television series \"El Pantera.\" He was born in Mexico City.\n\nRodolfo de Anda was the son of producer, director, actor Raul de Anda. His son is Rodolfo de Anda, Jr. and his brothers include producer Raul de Anda Jr. and director, actor Gilberto de Anda.\n\nHe began his acting career in the mid–1950s. De Anda’s IMDB listing has over 150 acting entries both in film and on television beginning with \"La venganza del Diablo\" and \"Echenme al gato\". De Anda also starred in many Mexican western films known as \"rancheras\" particularly in the 1960-70s, including \"El zurdo\" and its sequel \"Un hombre peligroso\".\n\nIn 1999, he played General Ampudia in “One Man's Hero” starring Tom Berenger and, Prince Albert of Monaco.\n\nRodolfo de Anda died February 1, 2010 from complications of diabetes and thrombosis following a stroke the week earlier.\n"}
{"id": "47404299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47404299", "title": "Roger E. Hedlund", "text": "Roger E. Hedlund\n\nRoger E. Hedlund is a Pastor who has spent more than three decades in India as a theological teacher and researcher with major contribution to Missiology with special reference to Indian ethos.\n\nHedlund taught at the Union Biblical Seminary, both at Yeotmal and at Pune during 1974-1978 and also at the Serampore College, a constituent College of the nation's first University, the Senate of Serampore College (University) from 1994-1997.\n\nAt present he is associated with the \"Dharma Deepika: A South Asian Journal of Missiological Research\" and with the Mylapore Institute for Indigenous Studies, Chennai. Hedlund edited the \"Oxford Encyclopedia of South Asian Christianity\".\n\nHedlund studied at the Upland College in 1957 and thereafter undertook theological studies at the Denver Conservative Baptist Seminary where he was awarded the graduate degree of Bachelor of Divinity (B.D.) in 1961. After serving as a missionary in Italy, Hedlund pursued postgraduate and doctoral studies at the Fuller Theological Seminary, Pasadena between 1970-1974.\n\nIn 2004, Hedlund pursued another doctorate at the State-run University of Madras \n\nRoger E. Hedlund has been prominent in the theological circles in India and known in the Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant and Charismatic circles serving the cause of missiological research. The papers and correspondence of Roger E. Hedlund have been preserved and made digitally available by the Asbury Theological Seminary, Kentucky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409106", "title": "Talbot Hobbs", "text": "Talbot Hobbs\n\nLieutenant General Sir Joseph John Talbot Hobbs, (24 August 1864 – 21 April 1938) was an Australian architect and First World War general.\n\nHobbs was born in London, the son of Joseph and his wife Frances Ann Hobbs (née Wilson). Educated at St Mary's church school, Merton, Surrey, Hobbs joined the volunteer artillery in 1883. He also worked as draughtsman for a builder, John Hurst. In 1886, he emigrated with Hurst to Western Australia and established an architectural practice in Perth in 1887.\n\nHobbs designed many of the well known public buildings in Perth and Fremantle, including the Weld Club, the Savoy Hotel and the Perth Masonic Lodge. Hobbs was treasurer of the Western Australian Institute of Architects in 1896, and later became the institute's president from 1909 to 1911. From 1905, he was senior partner in the firm of architects, Hobbs, Smith & Forbes.\n\nHobbs also designed a number of private residences. The first of these is believed to be Samson House in Fremantle, an example of late 19th century colonial style, which was built in two stages between 1888 and 1890. The house is registered with the National Trust, and is in the Register of the National Estate.\n\nIn 1887, Hobbs joined the volunteer artillery in Perth as a gunner, was commissioned in 1889, and rose to the command of the 1st (Western Australian) Field Battery in 1903. In 1906 he was a lieutenant colonel commanding a Western Australian mixed brigade, and in 1913 a colonel commanding the 22nd Infantry Brigade. On four occasions he went to England and did intensive courses in artillery training with the British Army. He was thus thoroughly equipped when war broke out and, on 8 August 1914 was selected by Major General William Bridges to command the 1st Australian Divisional Artillery.\n\nAfter training in Egyp], he was at the landing at Gallipoli on 25 April 1915 and was soon ashore searching for positions for his guns. Hobbs clashed with Bridges over the placement of the guns. Hobbs was in command of the artillery until 9 November 1915 when he was struck down with dysentery and invalided to Cairo despite his protests.\n\nHobbs was then promoted brigadier general and made a Companion of the Order of the Bath. In March 1916 he went with the 1st Australian Division to France, and was in command of the Australian artillery when Pozières was captured. In December 1916 he assumed command of the 5th Australian Division and was made a major general in January. This division was in the thick of the fighting in the spring of 1917, and in September distinguished itself at Polygon Wood. The staff worked well together, and achieved a great victory. Hobbs was created both a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath and Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George on 1 January 1918. At the end of April his division fought at the Second Battle of Villers-Bretonneux, which probably contributed to the abandonment of the German operations towards Amiens.\n\nTowards the end of May, Lieutenant General Sir John Monash was placed in command of the Australian Corps, and Hobbs became the senior divisional commander in the corps. His division was then given a well-earned rest but took a share in the great counterattack which began on 8 August. It did not take a leading part in the capture of Mont St Quentin, but Monash, in his \"The Australian Victories in France\", stated that he was \"concerned ... that the fine performance of the Fifth Division should not be underrated. The circumstances under which general Hobbs was called upon to intervene in the battle, at very short notice, imposed upon him, personally, difficulties of no mean order\". One of his tasks it may be mentioned was the crossing of the Somme in the face of strong opposition, and when Hobbs sent a message to the men of his war-worn division on its beginning a rest period on 8 September, he was able to say that they had \"earned imperishable fame for their gallantry and valour\". It was but a short rest, for they were in the line again later on in the same month, and Hobbs was making careful plans for the attack on the Hindenburg line which was successfully breached by the 3rd and 5th divisions on 30 September and 1 October. Monash was put in charge of the repatriation and demobilisation of the Australian troops, and Hobbs succeeded him in the command of the Australian Corps until May 1919.\n\nAfter the Armistice, Hobbs decided to return to his former profession; architecture. With a keen interest in the construction of war memorials, Hobbs was responsible for designing the Western Australian War Memorial in Kings Park, Perth, St George's College, Crawley and the Temperance and General and Royal Insurance buildings.\n\nHobbs died at sea of a heart attack while en route to the unveiling of the Villers–Bretonneux Australian National Memorial, built to the design of English architect Sir Edwin Lutyens.\n\nHobbs was a short and slight man, whose civilian life was that of a successful citizen who had a full realisation of his responsibilities to the society of which he was a member. Hobbs was capable, self-sacrificing and measured his life by high standards. Monash said of Hobbs that he \"succeeded fully as the Commander of a Division by his sound common sense and his sane attitude towards every problem that confronted him\". The eulogy of Lieutenant General Sir Brudenell White was \"he was not only a soldier, he was also a great citizen, and a great Christian gentleman ... who knew none other than the straight path\".\n\nThe \"Lieut. General Sir J. J. Talbot Hobbs Memorial\", better known as the \"Talbot Hobbs memorial\", was proposed and constructed just prior to the Second World War. The memorial is made of Donnybrook stone with a bronze bust of Hobbs on top, and placed against a background of Canary Island Palms on the Perth Esplanade. Since it was built the memorial has been the receiving point for the salute during Anzac Day parade, it was also the location from where Queen Elizabeth II took the salute during the 1954 Royal visit. The memorial was placed on the Western Australian Heritage register on 18 March 2005.\n\nThe 2012 redevelopment plans for the Perth Esplanade include relocation of the memorial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "259112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259112", "title": "Terrorism insurance", "text": "Terrorism insurance\n\nTerrorism insurance is insurance purchased by property owners to cover their potential losses and liabilities that might occur due to terrorist activities.\n\nIt is considered to be a difficult product for insurance companies, as the odds of terrorist attacks are very difficult to predict and the potential liability enormous. For example, the September 11, 2001 attacks resulted in an estimated $31.7 billion loss. This combination of uncertainty and potentially huge losses makes the setting of premiums a difficult matter. Most insurance companies therefore exclude terrorism from coverage in casualty and property insurance, or else require endorsements to provide coverage.\n\nConcentration of risk is another factor in determining availability for terrorism insurance. Due to the concentrated losses of the World Trade Center, carriers were hit with large losses in one centralized location. Insurers seek to spread the coverage over a wider geographic area than as with other aggregate perils, such as flood.\n\nInsurance companies are using an approach that is similar to that used with natural catastrophe risks. A Swiss report suggested that in this case where demand is greater than the supply for terrorism coverage that a short-term solution is possible: a mix of government and private resource to make easy the transition. In this situation, the government would serve two functions: to establish rules to overcome the capacity shortage and to be the insurer of last resort.\n\nInsurance payments related to terrorism are restricted to a billion euro per year for all insurance companies together. This regards property insurance, but also life insurance, medical insurance, etc.\n\nIn 2002, the US Congress enacted the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, in which the government shared the cost of large insurance losses.\n\nOn December 26, 2007, the President of the United States signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 which extends the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA) through December 31, 2014. The law extends the temporary federal Program that provides for a transparent system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism.\n\nSome economists have supported U.S. government subsidies of terrorism insurance. Soon after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, economist Edwin Mills expressed concern over whether private developers could build real estate without subsidies for insurance. Economist David R. Barker argued that properly structured subsidies could increase overall economic efficiency. Other economists have argued against these subsidies.\n\nThe United States insurance market offers coverage to the majority of large companies which ask for it in their policies. The price of the policy depends on where the clients are residing and how much limit they buy.\nAccording to \"The Economist\", one of the best studies to understand TRIA has been the one undertaken in 2005 by the Center for Risk Management at the Wharton Business School (\"TRIA and Beyond\"; available on their website below).\n\nIn mid-2007 the idea of another extension to TRIA was tabled and is officially known as TRIREA, (Terrorism Risk Insurance Revision and Extension Act). Initially TRIREA contained several new provisions including a mandatory 'make available' clause for NCBR coverage (Nuclear, Chemical, Biological and Radiological) and the ending of the distinction between domestic and foreign events.\n\nThe act expired on December 31, 2014, but was renewed at the start of the next congress, with Obama signing the extension of the TIRA through 2020 on January 12, 2015. Up until the 2014 expiration, many experts warned that \"construction projects could be stalled and commercial loans on shopping malls, utilities and skyscrapers could be in jeopardy.\" In addition, according to the Baltimore Sun, the National Football League denied rumors that it would cancel the Super Bowl over the issue.\n\nThe New York Times reports that in Baghdad personal terrorism insurance is available. One company offers such insurance for $90, and if the customer is a victim of terrorism in the next year, it pays the heirs $3,500.\n\nIn the UK, following the Baltic Exchange bomb in 1992, all UK insurers stopped including terrorism coverage on their commercial insurance policies with effect from 1 January 1993 (home insurance policies were unaffected). As a consequence, the government and insurance industry established the Pool Reinsurance Company Ltd (Pool Re). Primarily funded by premiums paid by policyholders, the government guarantees the fund although any such support must be repaid from future premiums. To date, despite paying over £600 million in relation to thirteen separate claims, no government support has been necessary.\n\nIn France, a pool of insurers and reinsurers was set up on 1 January 2002 under the name Gestion de l'Assurance et de la RÉassurance des risques attentats et Actes de Terrorisme (GAREAT). GAREAT is constituted upon the principle of mutuality between its Members, all of whom are jointly liable, and relies on the support given to GAREAT by international reinsurers as well as by the French State which provides unlimited coverage to the GAREAT programme via unlimited treaties reinsured 100% by . As a non-profit-making Economic Interest Grouping mandated by its Members, GAREAT returns to the latter that part of the premiums which are not used to finance the reinsurance coverage at the close of each year.\n\nAccording to the policy agenda of The Real Estate Roundtable, long-term terrorism insurance is available in the following countries:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44857677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44857677", "title": "The Order of the Good Death", "text": "The Order of the Good Death\n\nThe Order of the Good Death is a death acceptance organization founded in 2011 by mortician and author Caitlin Doughty. The group advocates for natural burial and embracing human mortality.\n\nAlong with Doughty, members include Sarah Chavez, Director of The Order of the Good Death, Megan Rosenbloom, Director of Death Salon, and Amber Carvaly, Director of Undertaking LA. Other notable members are artist and monument-maker Greg Lundgren, TED speaker Jae Rhim Lee, alternative funeral home director Jeff Jorgenson, artist Landis Blair, and other death professionals, artists and academics.\n\nThe group held its first \"death salon\" in Los Angeles in 2013. Another salon was held in 2014 at St Bartholomew's Hospital Pathology Museum in London by museum curator Carla Valentine.\n\nThe group took its name from the Brazilian Order of Our Lady of the Good Death.\n"}
{"id": "34038330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34038330", "title": "Theta model", "text": "Theta model\n\nThe theta model, or Ermentrout–Kopell canonical model, is a biological neuron model originally developed to model neurons in the animal Aplysia, and later used in various fields of computational neuroscience. The model is particularly well suited to describe neuron bursting, which are rapid oscillations in the membrane potential of a neuron interrupted by periods of relatively little oscillation. Bursts are often found in neurons responsible for controlling and maintaining steady rhythms. For example, breathing is controlled by a small network of bursting neurons in the brain stem. Of the three main classes of bursting neurons (square wave bursting, parabolic bursting, and elliptic bursting), the theta model describes parabolic bursting. Parabolic bursting is characterized by a series of bursts that are regulated by a slower external oscillation. This slow oscillation changes the frequency of the faster oscillation so that the frequency curve of the burst pattern resembles a parabola.\n\nThe model has just one state variable which describes the membrane voltage of a neuron. In contrast, the Hodgkin–Huxley model consists of four state variables (one voltage variable and three gating variables) and the Morris–Lecar model is defined by two state variables (one voltage variable and one gating variable). The single state variable of the theta model, and the elegantly simple equations that govern its behavior allow for analytic, or closed-form solutions (including an explicit expression for the phase response curve). The dynamics of the model take place on the unit circle, and are governed by two cosine functions and a real-valued input function.\n\nSimilar models include the quadratic integrate and fire (QIF) model, which differs from the theta model by only by a change of variables and Plant's model, which consists of Hodgkin–Huxley type equations and also differs from the theta model by a series of coordinate transformations.\n\nDespite its simplicity, the theta model offers enough complexity in its dynamics that it has been used for a wide range of theoretical neuroscience research as well as in research beyond biology, such as in artificial intelligence.\n\nBursting is \"an oscillation in which an observable [part] of the system, such as voltage or chemical concentration, changes periodically between an active phase of rapid spike oscillations (the fast sub-system) and a phase of quiescence\". Bursting comes in three distinct forms: square wave bursting, parabolic bursting, and elliptic bursting. There exist some models that do not fit neatly into these categories by qualitative observation, but it is possible to sort such models by their topology (i.e. such models can be sorted \"by the structure of the fast subsystem\").\n\nAll three forms of bursting are capable of beating and periodic bursting. Periodic bursting (or just bursting) is of more interest because many phenomena are controlled by, or arise from, bursting. For example, bursting due to a changing membrane potential is common in various neurons, including but not limited to cortical chattering neurons, thalamacortical neurons, and pacemaker neurons. Pacemakers in general are known to burst and synchronize as a population, thus generating a robust rhythm that can maintain repetitive tasks like breathing, walking, and eating. Beating occurs when a cell bursts continuously with no periodic quiescent periods, but beating is often considered to be an extreme case and is rarely of primary interest.\n\nBursting cells are important for motor generation and synchronization. For example, the pre-Bötzinger complex in the mammalian brain stem contains many bursting neurons that control autonomous breathing rhythms. Various neocortical neurons (i.e. cells of the neocortex) are capable of bursting, which \"contribute significantly to [the] network behavior [of neocortical neurons]\". The R15 neuron of the abdominal ganglion in \"Aplyisa\", hypothesized to be a [pneurosecretory[] cell (i.e. a cell that produces hormones), is known to produce bursts characteristic of neurosecretory cells. In particular, it is known to produce parabolic bursts.\n\nSince many biological processes involve bursting behavior, there is a wealth of various bursting models in scientific literature. For instance, there exist several models for interneurons and cortical spiking neurons. However, the literature on parabolic bursting models is relatively scarce.\n\nParabolic bursting models are mathematical models that mimic parabolic bursting in real biological systems. Each burst of a parabolic burster has a characteristic feature in the burst structure itself – the frequency at the beginning and end of the burst is low relative to the frequency in the middle of the burst. A frequency plot of one burst resembles a parabola, hence the name \"parabolic burst\". Furthermore, unlike elliptic or square-wave bursting, there is a slow modulating wave which, at its peak, excites the cell enough to generate a burst and inhibits the cell in regions near its minimum. As a result, the neuron periodically transitions between bursting and quiescence.\n\nParabolic bursting has been studied most extensively in the R15 neuron, which is one of six types of neurons of the \"Aplysia\" abdominal ganglion and one of thirty neurons comprising the abdominal ganglion. The \"Aplysia\" abdominal ganglion was studied and extensively characterized because its relatively large neurons and proximity of the neurons to the surface of the ganglion made it an ideal and \"valuable preparation for cellular electrophysical studies\".\n\nEarly attempts to model parabolic bursting were for specific applications, often related to studies of the R15 neuron. This is especially true of R. E. Plant and Carpenter, whose combined works comprise the bulk of parabolic bursting models prior to Ermentrout and Kopell's canonical model.\n\nThough there was no specific mention of the term \"parabolic bursting\" in Plant's papers, Plant's model(s) do involve a slow, modulating oscillation which control bursting in the model(s). This is, by definition, parabolic bursting. Both of Plant's papers on the topic involve a model derived from the Hodgkin–Huxley equations and include extra conductances, which only add to the complexity of the model.\n\nCarpenter developed her model primarily for a square wave burster. The model was capable of producing a small variety of square wave bursts and produced parabolic bursts as a consequence of adding an extra conductance. However, the model applied to only spatial propagation down axons and not situations where oscillations are limited to a small region in space (i.e. it was not suited for \"space-clamped\" situations).\n\nThe lack of a simple, generalizable, space-clamped, parabolic bursting model motivated Ermentrout and Kopell to develop the theta model.\n\nIt is possible to describe a multitude of parabolic bursting cells by deriving a simple mathematical model, called a canonical model. Derivation of the Ermentrout and Kopell canonical model begins with the general form for parabolic bursting, and notation will be fixed to clarify the discussion. The letters formula_1, formula_2, formula_3, formula_4 are reserved for functions; formula_5, formula_6, formula_7 for state variables; formula_8, formula_9, and formula_10 for scalars.\n\nIn the following generalized system of equations for parabolic bursting, the values of formula_1 describe the membrane potential and ion channels, typical of many conductance-based biological neuron models. Slow oscillations are controlled by formula_3, and ultimately described by formula_6. These slow oscillations can be, for example, slow fluctuations in calcium concentration inside a cell. The function formula_2 couples formula_15 to formula_16, thereby allowing the second system, formula_15, to influence the behavior of the first system, formula_16. In more succinct terms, \"formula_5 generates the spikes and formula_6 generates the slow waves\". The equations are:\n\nwhere formula_5 is a vector with formula_9 entries (i.e. formula_25), formula_6 is a vector with formula_10 entries (i.e. formula_28), formula_8 is small and positive, and formula_1, formula_2, formula_3 are smooth (i.e. infinitely differentiable). Additional constraints are required to guarantee parabolic bursting. First, formula_33 must produce a circle in phase space that is invariant, meaning it does not change under certain transformations. This circle must also be attracting in formula_34 with a critical point located at formula_35. The second criterion requires that when formula_36, there exists a stable limit cycle solution. These criteria can be summarized by the following points:\n\n\nThe theta model can be used in place of any parabolic bursting model that satisfies the assumptions above.\n\nThe theta model is a reduction of the generalized system from the previous section and takes the form,\n\nThis model is one of the simplest excitable neuron models. The state variable formula_7 represents the angle in radians, and the input function, formula_44, is typically chosen to be periodic. Whenever formula_7 reaches the value formula_46, the model is said to produce a spike.\n\nThe theta model is capable of a single saddle-node bifurcation and can be shown to be the \"normal form for the saddle-node on a limit cycle bifurcation\" (SNIC). When formula_47, the system is excitable, i.e., given an appriate perturbation the system will produce a spike. Incidentally, when viewed in the plane (formula_34), the unstable critical point is actually a saddle point because formula_49 is attracting in formula_34. When formula_51, formula_52 is also positive, and the system will give rise to a limit cycle. Therefore, the bifurcation point is located at formula_53.\n\nNear the bifurcation point, the theta model resembles the quadratic integrate and fire model:\n\nFor I > 0, the solutions \"blow up\" rather quickly. By resetting the trajectory formula_55 to formula_56 when it reaches formula_57, the total period is then\n\nTherefore, the period diverges as formula_59 and the frequency converges to zero.\n\nWhen formula_44 is some slow wave which can be both negative and positive, the system is capable of producing parabolic bursts. Consider the simple example formula_61, where formula_62 is relatively small. Then for formula_63, formula_44 is strictly positive and formula_7 makes multiple passes through the angle formula_66, resulting in multiple bursts. Note that whenever formula_67 is near zero or formula_66, the theta neuron will spike at relatively a low frequency, and whenever formula_67 is near formula_70 the neuron will spike with very high frequency. When formula_71, the frequency of spikes is zero since the period is infinite since formula_7 can no longer pass through formula_46. Finally, for formula_74, the neuron is excitable and will no longer burst. This qualitative description highlights the characteristics that make the theta model a parabolic bursting model. Not only does the model have periods of quiescence between bursts which are modulated by a slow wave, but the frequency of spikes at the beginning and end of each burst is high relative to the frequency at the middle of the burst.\n\nThe derivation comes in the form of two lemmas in Ermentrout and Kopell (1986). Lemma 1, in summary, states that when viewing the general equations above in a subset formula_75, the equations take the form:\n\nBy lemma 2 in Ermentrout and Kopell 1986, \"There exists a change of coordinates... and a constant, c, such that in new coordinates, the two equations above converge pointwise as formula_78 to the equations\n\nfor all formula_81. Convergence is uniform except near formula_46.\" (Ermentrout and Kopell, 1986). By letting formula_83, resemblance to the theta model is obvious.\n\nIn general, given a scalar phase model of the form\n\nwhere formula_85 represents the perturbation current, a closed form solution of the phase response curve (PRC) does not exist.\n\nHowever, the theta model is a special case of such an oscillator and happens to have a closed-form solution for the PRC. The theta model is recovered by defining formula_1 and formula_2 as\n\nIn the appendix of Ermentrout 1996, the PRC is shown to be formula_90.\n\nThe authors of Soto-Treviño et al. (1996) discuss in great detail the similarities between Plant's (1976) model and the theta model. At first glance, the mechanisms of bursting in both systems are very different: In Plant's model, there are two slow oscillations – one for conductance of a specific current and one for the concentration of calcium. The calcium oscillations are active only when the membrane potential is capable of oscillating. This contrasts heavily against the theta model in which one slow wave modulates the burst of the neuron and the slow wave has no dependence upon the bursts. Despite these differences, the theta model is shown to be similar to Plant's (1976) model by a series of coordinate transformations. In the process, Soto-Trevino, et al. discovered that the theta model was more general than originally believed.\n\nThe quadratic integrate-and-fire (QIF) model was created by Latham et al. in 2000 to explore the many questions related to networks of neurons with low firing rates. It was unclear to Latham et al. why networks of neurons with \"standard\" parameters were unable to generate sustained low frequency firing rates, while networks with low firing rates were often seen in biological systems.\n\nAccording to Gerstner and Kistler (2002), the quadratic integrate-and-fire (QIF) model is given by the following differential equation:\n\nwhere formula_92 is a strictly positive scalar, formula_93 is the membrane potential, formula_94 is the resting potential formula_95 is the minimum potential necessary for the membrane to produce an action potential, formula_96 is the membrane resistance, formula_97 the membrane time constant and formula_98. When there is no input current (i.e. formula_99), the membrane potential quickly returns to rest following a perturbation. When the input current, formula_4, is large enough, the membrane potential (formula_93) surpasses its firing threshold and rises rapidly (indeed, it reaches arbitrarily large values in finite time); this represents the peak of the action potential. To simulate the recovery after the action potential, the membrane voltage is then reset to a lower value formula_102. To avoid dealing with arbitrarily large values in simulation, researchers will often set an upper limit on the membrane potential, above which the membrane potential will be reset; for example Latham et al. (2000) reset the voltage from +20 mV to −80 mV. This voltage reset constitutes an action potential.\n\nThe theta model is very similar to the QIF model since the theta model differs from the QIF model by means of a simple coordinate transform. By scaling the voltage appropriately and letting formula_103 be the change in current from the minimum current required to elicit a spike, the QIF model can be rewritten in the form\n\nSimilarly, the theta model can be rewritten as\n\nThe following proof will show that the QIF model becomes the theta model given an appropriate choice for the coordinate transform.\n\nDefine formula_106. Recall that formula_107, so taking the derivative yields\n\nAn additional substitution and rearranging in terms of formula_7 yields\n\nUsing the trigonometric identities formula_111, formula_112 and formula_52 as defined above, we have that\n\nTherefore, there exists a change of coordinates, namely formula_106, which transforms the QIF model into the theta model. The reverse transformation also exists, and is attained by taking the inverse of the first transformation.\n\nThough the theta model was originally used to model slow cytoplasmic oscillations that modulate fast membrane oscillations in a single cell, Ermentrout and Kopell found that the theta model could be applied just as easily to systems of two electrically coupled cells such that the slow oscillations of one cell modulates the bursts of the other. Such cells serve as the central pattern generator (CPG) of the pyloric system in the lobster stomatograstic ganglion. In such a system, a slow oscillator, called the anterior burster (AB) cell, modulates the bursting cell called the pyloric dilator (PD), resulting in parabolic bursts.\n\nA group led by Boergers, used the theta model to explain why exposure to multiple simultaneous stimuli can reduce the response of the visual cortex below the normal response from a single (preferred) stimulus. Their computational results showed that this may happen due to strong stimulation of a large group of inhibitory neurons. This effect not only inhibits neighboring populations, but has the extra consequence of leaving the inhibitory neurons in disarray, thus increasing the effectiveness of inhibition.\n\nOsan et al. (2002) found that in a network of theta neurons, there exist two different types of waves that propagate smoothly over the network, given a sufficiently large coupling strength. Such traveling waves are of interest because they are frequently observed in pharmacologically treated brain slices, but are hard to measure in intact animals brains. The authors used a network of theta models in favor of a network of leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) models due to two primary advantages: first, the theta model is continuous, and second, the theta model retains information about \"the delay between the crossing of the spiking threshold and the actual firing of an action potential\". The LIF fails to satisfy both conditions.\n\nThe theta model can also be applied to research beyond the realm of biology. McKennoch et al. (2008) derived a steepest gradient descent learning rule based on theta neuron dynamics. Their model is based on the assumption that \"intrinsic neuron dynamics are sufficient to achieve consistent time coding, with no need to involve the precise shape of postsynaptic currents...\" contrary to similar models like SpikeProp and Tempotron, which depend heavily on the shape of the postsynaptic potential (PSP). Not only could the multilayer theta network perform just about as well as Tempotron learning, but the rule trained the multilayer theta network to perform certain tasks neither SpikeProp nor Tempotron were capable of.\n\nAccording to Kopell and Ermentrout (2004), a limitation of the theta lies in its relative difficulty in electrically coupling two theta neurons. It is possible to create large networks of theta neurons – and much research has been done with such networks – but it may be advantageous to use Quadratic Integrate-and-Fire (QIF) neurons, which allow for electrical coupling in a \"straightforward way\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53363521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53363521", "title": "Third-generation sequencing", "text": "Third-generation sequencing\n\nThird-generation sequencing (also known as long-read sequencing) is a class of DNA sequencing methods currently under active development. Third generation sequencing works by reading the nucleotide sequences at the single molecule level, in contrast to existing methods that require breaking long strands of DNA into small segments then inferring nucleotide sequences by amplification and synthesis. Critical challenges exist in the engineering of the necessary molecular instruments for whole genome sequencing to make the technology commercially available.\n\nSecond-generation sequencing, often referred to as Next-generation sequencing (NGS), has dominated the DNA sequencing space since its development. It has dramatically reduced the cost of DNA sequencing by enabling a massively-paralleled approach capable of producing large numbers of reads at exceptionally high coverages throughout the genome.\n\nSince eukaryotic genomes contain many repetitive regions, a major limitation to this class of sequencing methods is the length of reads it produces. Briefly, second generation sequencing works by first amplifying the DNA molecule and then conducting sequencing by synthesis. The collective fluorescent signal resulting from synthesizing a large number of amplified identical DNA strands allows the inference of nucleotide identity. However, due to random errors, DNA synthesis between the amplified DNA strands would become progressively out-of-sync. Quickly, the signal quality deteriorates as the read-length grows. In order to preserve read quality, long DNA molecules must be broken up into small segments, resulting in a critical limitation of second generation sequencing technologies. Computational efforts aimed to overcome this challenge often rely on approximative heuristics that may not result in accurate assemblies.\n\nBy enabling direct sequencing of single DNA molecules, third generation sequencing technologies have the capability to produce substantially longer reads than second generation sequencing. Such advantage has critical implications for both genome science and the study of biology in general. However, due to various technical challenges, third generation sequencing has error rates at almost unrepairable levels, rendering the technologies impractical for certain applications such as de novo genome assembly. These technologies are undergoing active development and therefore it is expected that there will be further improvements to the high error rates. For applications that are more tolerant to error rates such as metagenomics or larger structural variant calling, third generation sequencing has been found to outperform existing methods.\n\nSequencing technologies with a different approach than second-generation platforms were first described as \"third-generation\" in 2008-2009.\n\nThere are several companies currently at the heart of third generation sequencing technology development, namely, Pacific Biosciences, Oxford Nanopore Technology, Quantapore (CA-USA), and Stratos (WA-USA). These companies are taking fundamentally different approaches to sequencing single DNA molecules.\n\nPacBio developed the sequencing platform of single molecule real time sequencing (SMRT), based on the properties of zero-mode waveguides. Signals are in the form of fluorescent light emission from each nucleotide incorporated by a DNA polymerase bound to the bottom of the zL well.\n\nOxford Nanopore’s technology involves passing a DNA molecule through a nanoscale pore structure and then measuring changes in electrical field surrounding the pore; while Quantapore has a different proprietary nanopore approach. Stratos Genomics spaces out the DNA bases with polymeric inserts, \"Xpandomers\", to circumvent the signal to noise challenge of nanopore ssDNA reading.\n\nAlso notable is Helicos's single molecule fluorescence approach, but the company entered bankruptcy in the fall of 2015.\n\nIn comparison to the current generation of sequencing technologies, third generation sequencing has the obvious advantage of producing much longer reads. It is expected that these longer read lengths will alleviate numerous computational challenges surrounding genome assembly, transcript reconstruction, and metagenomics among other important areas of modern biology and medicine.\n\nIt is well known that eukaryotic genomes including primates and humans are complex and have large numbers of long repeated regions. Short reads from second generation sequencing must resort to approximative strategies in order to infer sequences over long ranges for assembly and genetic variant calling. Pair end reads have been leveraged by second generation sequencing to combat these limitations. However, exact fragment lengths of pair ends are often unknown and must also be approximated as well. By making long reads lengths possible, third generation sequencing technologies have clear advantages.\n\nEpigenetic markers are stable and potentially heritable modifications to the DNA molecule that are not in its sequence. An example is DNA methylation at CpG sites, which has been found to influence gene expression. Histone modifications are another example. The current generation of sequencing technologies rely on laboratory techniques such as ChIP-sequencing for the detection of epigenetic markers. These techniques involve tagging the DNA strand, breaking and filtering fragments that contain markers, followed by sequencing. Third generation sequencing may enable direct detection of these markers due to their distinctive signal from the other four nucleotide bases.\n\nOther important advantages of third generation sequencing technologies include portability and sequencing speed. Since minimal sample preprocessing is required in comparison to second generation sequencing, smaller equipments could be designed. Oxford Nanopore Technology has recently commercialized the MinION sequencer. This sequencing machine is roughly the size of a regular USB flash drive and can be used readily by connecting to a laptop. In addition, since the sequencing process is not parallelized across regions of the genome, data could be collected and analyzed in real time. These advantages of third generation sequencing may be well-suited in hospital settings where quick and on-site data collection and analysis is demanded.\n\nThird generation sequencing, as it currently stands, faces important challenges mainly surrounding accurate identification of nucleotide bases; error rates are still much higher compared to second generation sequencing. This is generally due to instability of the molecular machinery involved. For example, in PacBio’s single molecular and real time sequencing technology, the DNA polymerase molecule becomes increasingly damaged as the sequencing process occurs. Additionally, since the process happens quickly, the signals given off by individual bases may be blurred by signals from neighbouring bases. This poses a new computational challenge for deciphering the signals and consequently inferring the sequence. Methods such as Hidden Markov Models, for example, have been leveraged for this purpose with some success.\n\nOn average, different individuals of the human population share about 99.9% of their genes. In other words, approximately only one out of every thousand bases would differ between any two person. The high error rates involved with third generation sequencing are inevitably problematic for the purpose of characterizing individual differences that exist between members of the same species.\n\nGenome assembly is the reconstruction of whole genome DNA sequences. This is generally done with two fundamentally different approaches.\n\nWhen a reference genome is available, as one is in the case of human, newly sequenced reads could simply be aligned to the reference genome in order to characterize its properties. Such reference based assembly is quick and easy but has the disadvantage of “hiding\" novel sequences and large copy number variants. In addition, reference genomes do not yet exist for most organisms.\n\n\"De novo\" assembly is the alternative genome assembly approach to reference alignment. It refers to the reconstruction of whole genome sequences entirely from raw sequence reads. This method would be chosen when there is no reference genome, when the species of the given organism is unknown as in metagenomics, or when there exist genetic variants of interest that may not be detected by reference genome alignment.\n\nGiven the short reads produced by the current generation of sequencing technologies, de novo assembly is a major computational problem. It is normally approached by an iterative process of finding and connecting sequence reads with sensible overlaps. Various computational and statistical techniques, such as de bruijn graphs and overlap layout consensus graphs, have been leveraged to solve this problem. Nonetheless, due to the highly repetitive nature of eukaryotic genomes, accurate and complete reconstruction of genome sequences in de novo assembly remains challenging. Pair end reads have been posed as a possible solution, though exact fragment lengths are often unknown and must be approximated.\nLong read lengths offered by third generation sequencing may alleviate many of the challenges currently faced by de novo genome assemblies. For example, if an entire repetitive region can be sequenced unambiguously in a single read, no computation inference would be required. Computational methods have been proposed to alleviate the issue of high error rates. For example, in one study, it was demonstrated that de novo assembly of a microbial genome using PacBio sequencing alone performed superior to that of second generation sequencing.\n\nThird generation sequencing may also be used in conjunction with second generation sequencing. This approach is often referred to as hybrid sequencing. For example, long reads from third generation sequencing may be used to resolve ambiguities that exist in genomes previously assembled using second generation sequencing. On the other hand, short second generation reads have been used to correct errors in that exist in the long third generation reads. In general, this hybrid approach has been shown to improve de novo genome assemblies significantly.\n\nDNA methylation (DNAm) – the covalent modification of DNA at CpG sites resulting in attached methyl groups – is the best understood component of epigenetic machinery. DNA modifications and resulting gene expression can vary across cell types, temporal development, with genetic ancestry, can change due to environmental stimuli and are heritable. After the discovery of DNAm, researchers have also found its correlation to diseases like cancer and autism. In this disease etiology context DNAm is an important avenue of further research.\n\nThe current most common methods for examining methylation state require an assay that fragments DNA before standard second generation sequencing on the Illumina platform. As a result of short read length, information regarding the longer patterns of methylation are lost. Third generation sequencing technologies offer the capability for single molecule real-time sequencing of longer reads, and detection of DNA modification without the aforementioned assay.\n\nOxford Nanopore Technologies’ MinION has been used to detect DNAm. As each DNA strand passes through a pore, it produces electrical signals which have been found to be sensitive to epigenetic changes in the nucleotides, and a hidden Markov model (HMM) was used to analyze MinION data to detect 5-methylcytosine (5mC) DNA modification. The model was trained using synthetically methylated \"E. coli\" DNA and the resulting signals measured by the nanopore technology. Then the trained model was used to detect 5mC in MinION genomic reads from a human cell line which already had a reference methylome. The classifier has 82% accuracy in randomly sampled singleton sites, which increases to 95% when more stringent thresholds are applied.\n\nOther methods address different types of DNA modifications using the MinION platform. Stoiber et al. examined 4-methylcytosine (4mC) and 6-methyladenine (6mA), along with 5mC, and also created a software to directly visualize the raw MinION data in human-friendly way. Here they found that in \"E. coli\", which has a known methylome, event windows of 5 base pairs long can be used to divide and statistically analyze the raw MinION electrical signals. A straightforward Mann-Whitney U test can detect modified portions of the \"E. coli\" sequence, as well as further split the modifications into 4mC, 6mA or 5mC regions.\n\nIt seems likely that in the future, MinION raw data will be used to detect many different epigenetic marks in DNA.\n\nPacBio sequencing has also been used to detect DNA methylation. In this platform the pulse width - the width of a fluorescent light pulse - corresponds to a specific base. In 2010 it was shown that the interpulse distance in control and methylated samples are different, and there is a \"signature\" pulse width for each methylation type. In 2012 using the PacBio platform the binding sites of DNA methyltransferases were characterized. The detection of N6-methylation in C Elegans was shown in 2015. DNA methylation on \"N\"-adenine using the PacBio platform in mouse embryonic stem cells was shown in 2016.\n\nOther forms of DNA modifications – from heavy metals, oxidation, or UV damage – are also possible avenues of research using Oxford Nanopore and PacBio third generation sequencing.\n\nProcessing of the raw data – such as normalization to the median signal – was needed on MinION raw data, reducing real-time capability of the technology. Consistency of the electrical signals is still an issue, making it difficult to accurately call a nucleotide. MinION has low throughput; since multiple overlapping reads are hard to obtain, this further leads to accuracy problems of downstream DNA modification detection. Both the hidden Markov model and statistical methods used with MinION raw data require repeated observations of DNA modifications for detection, meaning that individual modified nucleotides need to be consistently present in multiple copies of the genome, e.g. in multiple cells or plasmids in the sample.\n\nFor the PacBio platform, too, depending on what methylation you expect to find, coverage needs can vary. As of March 2017, other epigenetic factors like histone modifications have not been discoverable using third-generation technologies. Longer patterns of methylation are often lost because smaller contigs still need to be assembled.\n\nTranscriptomics is the study of the transcriptome, usually by characterizing the relative abundances of messenger RNA molecules the tissue under study. According to the central dogma of molecular biology, genetic information flows from double stranded DNA molecules to single stranded mRNA molecules where they can be readily translated into function protein molecules. By studying the transcriptome, one can gain valuable insight into the regulation of gene expressions.\n\nWhile expression levels as the gene level can be more or less accurately depicted by second generation sequencing, transcript level information is still an important challenge. As a consequence, the role of alternative splicing in molecular biology remains largely elusive. Third generation sequencing technologies hold promising prospects in resolving this issue by enabling sequencing of mRNA molecules at their full lengths.\n\nAlternative splicing (AS) is the process by which a single gene may give rise to multiple distinct mRNA transcripts and consequently different protein translations. Some evidence suggests that AS is a ubiquitous phenomenon and may play a key role in determining the phenotypes of organisms, especially in complex eukaryotes; all eukaryotes contain genes consisting of introns that may undergo AS. In particular, it has been estimated that AS occurs in 95% of all human multi-exon genes. AS has undeniable potential to influence myriad biological processes. Advancing knowledge in this area has critical implications for the study of biology in general.\n\nThe current generation of sequencing technologies produce only short reads, putting tremendous limitation on the ability to detect distinct transcripts; short reads must be reverse engineered into original transcripts that could have given rise to the resulting read observations. This task is further complicated by the highly variable expression levels across transcripts, and consequently variable read coverages across the sequence of the gene. In addition, exons may be shared among individual transcripts, rendering unambiguous inferences essentially impossible. Existing computational methods make inferences based on the accumulation of short reads at various sequence locations often by making simplifying assumptions. Cufflinks takes a parsimonious approach, seeking to explain all the reads with the fewest possible number of transcripts. On the other hand, StringTie attempts to simultaneously estimate transcript abundances while assembling the reads. These methods, while reasonable, may not always identify real transcripts.\n\nA study published in 2008 surveyed 25 different existing transcript reconstruction protocols. Its evidence suggested that existing methods are generally weak in assembling transcripts, though the ability to detect individual exons are relatively intact. According to the estimates, average sensitivity to detect exons across the 25 protocols is 80% for Caenorhabditis elegans genes. In comparison, transcript identification sensitivity decreases to 65%. For human, the study reported an exon detection sensitivity averaging to 69% and transcript detection sensitivity had an average of mere 33%. In other words, for human, existing methods are able to identify less than half of all existing transcript.\n\nThird generation sequencing technologies have demonstrated promising prospects in solving the problem of transcript detection as well as mRNA abundance estimation at the level of transcripts. While error rates remain high, third generation sequencing technologies have the capability to produce much longer read lengths. Pacific Bioscience has introduced the iso-seq platform, proposing to sequence mRNA molecules at their full lengths. It is anticipated that Oxford Nanopore will put forth similar technologies. The trouble with higher error rates may be alleviated by supplementary high quality short reads. This approach has been previously tested and reported to reduce the error rate by more than 3 folds.\n\nMetagenomics is the analysis of genetic material recovered directly from environmental samples.\n\nThe main advantage for third-generation sequencing technologies in metagenomics is their speed of sequencing in comparison to second generation techniques. Speed of sequencing is important for example in the clinical setting (i.e. pathogen identification), to allow for efficient diagnosis and timely clinical actions.\n\nOxford Nanopore's MinION was used in 2015 for real-time metagenomic detection of pathogens in complex, high-background clinical samples. The first Ebola virus (EBV) read was sequenced 44 seconds after data acquisition. There was uniform mapping of reads to genome; at least one read mapped to >88% of the genome. The relatively long reads allowed for sequencing of a near-complete viral genome to high accuracy (97–99% identity) directly from a primary clinical sample.\n\nA common phylogenetic marker for microbial community diversity studies is the 16S ribosomal RNA gene. Both MinION and PacBio's SMRT platform have been used to sequence this gene. In this context the PacBio error rate was comparable to that of shorter reads from 454 and Illumina's MiSeq sequencing platforms.\n\nMinION's high error rate (~10-40%) prevented identification of antimicrobial resistance markers, for which single nucleotide resolution is necessary. For the same reason eukaryotic pathogens were not identified. Ease of carryover contamination when re-using same the flow cell (standard wash protocols don’t work) is also a concern. Unique barcodes may allow for more multiplexing. Furthermore, performing accurate species identification for bacteria, fungi and parasites is very difficult, as they share a larger portion of the genome, and some only differ by <5%.\n\nThe per base sequencing cost is still significantly more than that of MiSeq. However, the prospect of supplementing reference databases with full-length sequences from organisms below the limit of detection from the Sanger approach; this could possibly greatly help the identification of organisms in metagenomics.\n\nBefore third generation sequencing can be used reliably in the clinical context, there is a need for standardization of lab protocols. These protocols are not yet as optimized as PCR methods.\n"}
{"id": "2745590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2745590", "title": "Uqba ibn Nafi", "text": "Uqba ibn Nafi\n\nʿUqbah ibn Nāfiʿ (, also referred to as Oqba ibn Nafi, Uqba bin Nafe, Uqba ibn al Nafia, or Akbah; 622–683) was an Arab general serving the Rashidun Caliphate since the Reign of Umar and later on the Umayyad Caliphate during the reigns of Muawiyah I and Yazid I, leading the Muslim conquest of the Maghreb, including present-day Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and Morocco.\n\nʿUqbah was the nephew of 'Amr ibn al-'As. He is often surnamed al-Fihri in reference to the Banu Fihri, a clan connected to the Quraysh. His descendants would be known as the ʿUqbids or Fihrids. ʿUqbah is the founder of the cultural city of Kairouan in Tunisia.\n\nʿUqbah accompanied al-ʿAs in his initial capture of cities in North Africa starting with Barca, then proceeding to Tripolitania in 644. In 670 now the emir or commander, ʿUqbah led an Arab army to North Africa, crossing the Egyptian deserts, and setting up military posts at regular intervals along his route. In a region of what is now Tunisia, he established the town now called Kairouan (meaning \"camp\" or \"caravanserai\" in Persian) about south of present-day Tunis, which he used as a base for further operations.\n\nAccording to one legend, one of ʿUqbah's soldiers stumbled across a golden goblet buried in the sands. It was recognized as one that had disappeared from Mecca some years before, and when it was dug out of the sand a spring appeared, with waters said to come from the same source as those of the sacred Zamzam Well in Mecca. This story led to Kairouan becoming a place of pilgrimage and then a holy city (\"the Mecca of the Maghreb\") and the most important city in North Africa.\n\nIn 683 ʿUqbah was ambushed and killed near Biskra by Kusaila. He died beside his hated rival, Abu al-Muhajir Dinar, during the battle with Kusaila's troops at the Battle of Vescera. His armies evacuated Kairouan and withdrew to Barca, though it was recaptured in 688.\n\nMost of the accounts describing Arab conquests of North Africa in general and Uqba's conquests in particular date back to at least two centuries after the conquests have happened.\n\nOne of the earliest reports come from the Andalucian chronicler Ibn Idhari in his \"Al-Bayan al-Mughrib\". In it, Ibn Idhari describes the moment when Uqba reached the Atlantic Ocean, where he allegedly said, \"O God, if the sea had not prevented me, I would have galloped on for ever like Alexander the Great, upholding your faith and fighting the unbelievers!\"\n\nEdward Gibbon, referring to Uqba ibn Nafi as \"Akbah\", gives him the title \"conqueror of Africa,\" beginning his story when he \"marched from Damascus at the head of ten thousand of the bravest Arabs; and the genuine force of the Moslems was enlarged by the doubtful aid and conversion of many thousand Barbarians.\" He then marched into North Africa. Gibbon continues: \"It would be difficult, nor is it necessary, to trace the accurate line of the progress of Akbah.\" On the North African coast, \"the well-known titles of Bugia, and Tangier define the more certain limits of the Saracen victories.\" Gibbon then tells the story of Akbah's conquest of the Roman province of Mauretania Tingitana:\nIt should be pointed out that although much scholarship on the life and conquests of ibn Nafi are available, most have not been translated from their original Arabic into English or French.\n\n\n"}
