{"id": "19085530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085530", "title": "88-Keys", "text": "88-Keys\n\nCharles Misodi Njapa (born March 5, 1976), better known by his stage name 88-Keys, is an American record producer and rapper from New York City.\n\nBorn in New York City to West African parents, he was raised in the Eastchester section of the Bronx and later in West Hempstead on Long Island, where he attended high school.\n\n88-Keys first took an interest in hip hop after hearing Prince Paul's production on De La Soul's 1989 critically acclaimed album \"3 Feet High and Rising\". In the early '90's, 88-Keys met A Tribe Called Quest's Q-Tip, DJ-producer Pete Rock and producer Large Professor working as an intern at West Hempstead's The Music Palace recording studio. It was Large Professor who gave Charles his 88-Keys moniker after witnessing his skills on the Ensoniq ASR-10 keyboard.\n\nHowever, 88-Keys's parents were strict on education and less enthusiastic about his interest in the then-newly emerging cultural phenomenon of hip hop. Both of 88-Keys's parents are registered nurses, his brother is a doctor, one of his older sisters is a nurse and another sister is on her way to becoming a doctor. Upon considering a serious career in music, 88-Keys's parents and older brother began trying to point him into the field of medicine because it was a more \"professional field\" and the music industry didn't seem like a lucrative move. After briefly attending Hofstra University and Queens College, 88-Keys dropped out to pursue his dreams of being a record producer. His decision was fueled by an opportunity to record some tracks with The Pharcyde who were recording in California. 88-Keys currently resides in Harlem, New York with his wife and two daughters.\n\nIn addition to his passion for music, 88-Keys has expressed his love for fashion, most notably Ralph Lauren. During an interview with \"Metro\" 88-Keys revealed that he has worn Polo Ralph Lauren every day for 16 years.\n\nAccording to the article, 88-Keys began wearing Polo Ralph Lauren as a Long Island high school student in 1992 when he developed a liking for its classic, preppy style. Since then, he's worn a complete look from the brand every day, without fail. His wardrobe includes over 700 Polo pieces.\n\nSince his days as an assistant engineer, 88-Keys has produced records for numerous artists including Mos Def, Talib Kweli, Kid Cudi, Macy Gray, Musiq Soulchild, Dejuan Lucian and Consequence. Recently, 88-Keys extended beyond his production credits to highlight his skills on the mic as MC, singer and collaborator, most notably on his solo debut album \"The Death of Adam\" released on November 11, 2008. Executively produced by 88-Keys's close friend Kanye West, the concept album tells the story of a man named Adam who has been murdered in a loft apartment in Harlem. In August 2008 a fifteen-track mixtape titled \"Adam's Case Files\" was released as a prequel to \"The Death of Adam\". The album's first single titled \"Stay Up! (Viagra)\" was officially released through iTunes on September 9, 2008. In December 2008, 88-Keys was highlighted as \"Spin (magazine)\" Artist of the Day. In 2009, 88-Keys worked in Atlanta with new female duo Addictive on a track for a forthcoming album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55314375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55314375", "title": "Abu'l-Qasim Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Kalbi", "text": "Abu'l-Qasim Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Kalbi\n\nAbu'l-Qasim Ali ibn al-Hasan al-Kalbi (; \"Abū'l-Qāsim ʿAlī ibn al-Ḥasan al-Kalbī\"), known to the Byzantine Greeks as Bolkasimos, was the fourth Emir of Sicily. He ruled from June 23, 970 to his death in battle on July 13, 982.\n\nIn 947, the Fatimid caliph al-Mansur Billah sent al-Hasan ibn Ali al-Kalbi to subdue a revolt on Sicily, where he would go on to establish his own ruling dynasty, the Kalbids. Al-Hasan was succeeded by his son, Ahmad ibn al-Hasan al-Kalbi, in 954. In 969 Ahmad was recalled to North Africa to assist in subduing a revolt by Berber tribesmen. Briefly in 969, one of Ahmad's freed slaves, Ya'ish, was appointed governor of Sicily. The next year Abu'l-Qasim, Ahmad's brother, was elevated to governor.\n\nDuring the spring of 976, Abu'l-Qasim launched a raiding expedition on Byzantine Italy. His first target was the city of Messina, which he found deserted upon arrival. He soon moved on to Apulia, taking tribute from Cosenza before sending his brother to raid the surrounding countryside. He soon crossed the straits back to Sicily. During the summer of the same year, Abu'l-Qasim crossed back to mainland Italy, where he quickly forced tribute out of St. Agatha and took and razed Taranto. He then sent one army to Otranto while he besieged Gravina, before retiring to Muslim lands for the year, bringing home hundreds of captives as slaves.\n\nIn May 982, Abu'l-Qasim returned to Italy hoping to confront the advancing German emperor Otto II. Around Rossano Calabro, Abu'l-Qasim spotted the German army and realized that he had hugely underestimated its size. He attempted to retreat back to Sicily, but Otto caught up with him around Capo Colonna. In the Battle of Stilo, the outnumbered Kalbid force was able to surround and defeat the German forces with an unexpectedly strong cavalry charge; Otto himself only escaped by swimming to a Greek merchant ship, but Abu'l-Qasim was killed in the melee.\n\n"}
{"id": "10911956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10911956", "title": "Acacitli", "text": "Acacitli\n\nAcacitli (Nahuatl for \"reed hare\"; ) was a Mexica chief and one of the \"founding fathers\" of Tenochtitlan, the capital of the Aztec empire.\n\nAccording to the \"Crónica mexicayotl\", his daughter Tezcatlan Miyahuatzin was married to Acamapichtli, the first \"tlatoani\" of Tenochtitlan, and gave birth to King Huitzilihuitl.\n\n"}
{"id": "13910211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13910211", "title": "Bernardo I of Kongo", "text": "Bernardo I of Kongo\n\nBernardo I of Kongo (died 1567) was a 16th-century manikongo (ruler) of the Kingdom of Kongo, a region encompassing areas in 21st-century Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo. He came to power after murdering his half-brother Afonso II who was less well-disposed toward the Portuguese.\n\nThe rule of Bernardo I extended from 1561 to 1567. He was killed fighting the Yaka on Kongo's eastern frontier. The Yaka, who were referred to as Jagas by the Essikongo and the Portuguese, would invade and nearly conquer Kongo in 1568.\n\n"}
{"id": "2312640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2312640", "title": "Bioprocess", "text": "Bioprocess\n\nA bioprocess is a specific process that uses complete living cells or their components (e.g., bacteria, enzymes, chloroplasts) to obtain desired products.\n\nTransport of energy and mass is fundamental to many biological and environmental processes. Areas, from food processing to thermal design of building to biomedical devices to pollution control and global warming, require knowledge of how energy and mass can be transported through materials (mass, momentum, heat transfer).\n\nCell therapy bioprocessing is a discipline that bridges the fields of cell therapy and bioprocessing (i.e., biopharmaceutical manufacturing), and is a sub-field of bioprocess engineering. The goals of cell therapy bioprocessing are to establish reproducible and robust manufacturing processes for the production of therapeutic cells. Commercially relevant bioprocesses will:\n\n\nTherapeutic cell manufacturing processes can be separated into upstream processes and downstream processes. The upstream process is defined as the entire process from early cell isolation and cultivation, to cell banking and culture expansion of the cells until final harvest (termination of the culture and collection of the live cell batch).\n\nAside from technology challenges, concerning the scalability of culture apparatus, a number of raw material supply risks have emerged in recent years, including the availability of GMP grade fetal bovine serum.\n\nThe upstream part of a bioprocess refers to the first step in which microbes/cells are grown, e.g. bacterial or mammalian cell lines (see cell culture), in bioreactors. Upstream processing involves all the steps related to inoculum development, media development, improvement of inoculum by genetic engineering process, optimization of growth kinetics so that product development can improve tremendously. Fermentation has two parts: upstream and downstream. After product development, the next step is the purification of product for desired quality. When they reach the desired density (for batch and fed-batch cultures) they are harvested and moved to the downstream section of the bioprocess.\n\nThe downstream part of a bioprocess refers to the part where the cell mass from the upstream are processed to meet purity and quality requirements. Downstream processing is usually divided into three main sections: cell disruption, a purification section and a polishing section.\nThe volatile products can be separated by distillation of the harvested culture without pre-treatment. Distillation is done at reduced pressure at continuous stills. At reduced pressure distillation of product directly from fermentor may be possible. The steps of downstream processing are:\n\n"}
{"id": "4172739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4172739", "title": "Boomerang (horse)", "text": "Boomerang (horse)\n\nBoomerang, later Carroll's Boomerang, was an Irish Sport Horse who stood 16.2 hh (168 cm), ridden in show jumping competitions, most successfully by Eddie Macken. Boomerang was also ridden by Liz Edgar (Broome), Johan Heins and Paul Schockemöhle.\n\nBoomerang was bred by Jimmy Murphy of Maifield, Grangemockler, County Tipperary, a well-known sportsman and local politician from Grangemockler, Co Tipperary. Jimmy and his wife Mai, a successful racehorse owner, sent their Irish Draught mare, Girl From The Brown Mountain, to Battleburn, owned by John Shine, Meenroe, Meelin, Co.Cork. Jimmy and his family broke the horse, initially known as Battle Boy, and recognised his prodigious ability. They hunted him with the Kilmoganny Harriers and jumped him in novice classes on the Tipperary/Kilkenny/Waterford gymkhana circuit and then sent him to \"finishing school\" with Iris Kellett, the 1969 European showjumping champion, at her stables at Mespil Road in Dublin. There, the horse was first ridden by Eddie Macken, then a working pupil at Kellett's. He first jumped at the RDS Dublin Spring Show as a four-year-old in 1970. Two years later, Jimmy sold him to Ted and Liz Edgar's yard in Warwickshire, England. Liz Edgar jumped him with success. He was then sold on to Paul Schockemöhle, who took him to his stables in Mühlen, Germany and renamed him Boomerang.\n\nMacken by this time had moved into the heartland of continental competition when he went to the Schockemöhle brothers Paul and Alwin in the Spring of 1975. A rich German owner, Dr. Herbert Schnapka, eased Macken's way by providing horses for him to ride in the Schockemöhle yard. Easter Parade, Macken's best horse at the time, broke his back in a freak accident on his way back from the cancelled spring meeting at Hickstead in 1975. By way of an interim replacement, Paul Schockemöhle said to Macken: ...take my speed horse Boomerang for the time being until you get something better.'\n\nOver the period 1975-1979, Macken and Boomerang were to win or take second in a record-breaking 32 major Grand Prix's or Derby events across Europe and in the United States. Boomerang helped Macken top the World Computer Ratings in 1976, 1977, and 1978, while amassing £250,000 in prize money - record winnings at the time.(£911,000 in 2007 money)\n\nIn 1977 Dr Schnapka gave the outright gift of Boomerang to Eddie Macken.\n\nBIn 1978 they traveled to Aachen for the world championship where Macken hoped to avenge his narrow defeat on Pele at Hickstead four years earlier. When they reached the final four, the omens were looking positive, but then disaster struck. In the final round Macken was obliged to jump a round on each of his competitors’ horses and on one, Pandur Z, he made a miscalculation and picked up a quarter of a time fault – “like Tiger Woods missing a three-foot putt” – and the slip cost him gold. “Boomerang deserved to be world champion,” Macken said. “Well, he was world champion because he was the best horse there. I wasn’t. I was the one who made the mistake.”\n\nWhen he and Boomerang were at their peak Macken was barred from competing at the Olympic Games because he was a professional and had sponsorship. The 1979 European Championships, in Rotterdam again proved a disappointment. Boomerang did not knock a single fence in the first three rounds and helped Con Power on Rockbarton, Gerry Mullins on Ballinderry and John Roche on Maigh Cullin to a bronze medal behind Britain and Germany. Boomerang was in the individual lead and heading for gold when a judge made a late decision that he had hit the tape at the water jump, and he and Macken finished in fourth place.\n\nIn the fading weeks of that year and, as it turned out, the fading moments of his career, Boomerang and Macken made their first trip to Calgary, won the main class every day and took the du Maurier Classic Grand Prix in September. In October, the duo won their fourth Horse of the Year Grand Prix at Wembley. Lastly, at the second Dublin Indoor International in November, they won the main events on the Thursday and Friday, followed by third place in the Grand Prix. With a double clear, they were fourth in the Grand Prix at Olympia just before Christmas, and that was to be Boomerang's last major individual outing with Macken.\n\nBut he and Macken won four consecutive Hickstead Derbies from 1976 to 1979, and also the Hamburg equivalent in 1976. They, along with James Kernan on Condy, Paul Darragh on Heather Honey and Capt. Con Power on (Coolronan 1977, Castlepark 1978 and Rockbarton 1979), won the Aga Khan Trophy at the RDS Dublin (Ireland's Nations Cup) from 1977 to 1979.\n\nIn early 1980 Boomerang had to be retired because of a broken pedal bone. Then in May 1983, at 17 years of age, Boomerang had to be euthanized and is buried at Rafeehan Stud, Kells, County Meath. His grave is marked by four evergreen trees. They are symbols of four Hickstead Derby wins, four Championships at Wembley, four clear rounds in the final of the 1978 World Championships, and four years in a row without a fence down in the Aga Khan Trophy competition in Dublin. \"Ni bheidh a leithéid arís ann\" (Irish for \"His like will not be seen again\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19347033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19347033", "title": "Breastfeeding", "text": "Breastfeeding\n\nBreastfeeding, also known as nursing, is the feeding of babies and young children with milk from a woman's breast. Health professionals recommend that breastfeeding begin within the first hour of a baby's life and continue as often and as much as the baby wants. During the first few weeks of life babies may nurse roughly every two to three hours and the duration of a feeding is usually ten to fifteen minutes on each breast. Older children feed less often. Mothers may pump milk so that it can be used later when breastfeeding is not possible. Breastfeeding has a number of benefits to both mother and baby, which infant formula lacks.\nDeaths of an estimated 820,000 children under the age of five could be prevented globally every year with increased breastfeeding. Breastfeeding decreases the risk of respiratory tract infections and diarrhea, both in developing and developed countries. Other benefits include lower risks of asthma, food allergies, type 1 diabetes, and leukemia. Breastfeeding may also improve cognitive development and decrease the risk of obesity in adulthood. Mothers may feel pressure to breastfeed, but in the developed world children generally grow up normally when bottle fed.\nBenefits for the mother include less blood loss following delivery, better uterus shrinkage, and less postpartum depression. Breastfeeding delays the return of menstruation and fertility, a phenomenon known as lactational amenorrhea. Long term benefits for the mother include decreased risk of breast cancer, cardiovascular disease, and rheumatoid arthritis. Breastfeeding is less expensive than infant formula.\nHealth organizations, including the World Health Organization (WHO), recommend breastfeeding exclusively for six months. This means that no other foods or drinks other than possibly vitamin D are typically given. After the introduction of foods at six months of age, recommendations include continued breastfeeding until one to two years of age or more. Globally about 38% of infants are only breastfed during their first six months of life. In the United States, about 75% of women begin breastfeeding and about 13% only breastfeed until the age of six months. Medical conditions that do not allow breastfeeding are rare. Mothers who take certain recreational drugs and medications should not breastfeed. Smoking, limited amounts of alcohol, or coffee are not reasons to avoid breastfeeding.\n\nChanges early in pregnancy prepare the breast for lactation. Before pregnancy the breast is largely composed of adipose (fat) tissue but under the influence of the hormones estrogen, progesterone, prolactin, and other hormones, the breasts prepare for production of milk for the baby. There is an increase in blood flow to the breasts. Pigmentation of the nipples and areola also increases. Size increases as well, but breast size is not related to the amount of milk that the mother will be able to produce after the baby is born. By the second trimester of pregnancy colostrum, a thick yellowish fluid, begins to be produced in the alveoli and continues to be produced for the first few days until the milk \"comes in\", around 30 to 40 hours after delivery. \nOxytocin contracts the smooth muscle of the uterus during birth and following delivery, called the postpartum period, while breastfeeding. Oxytocin also contracts the smooth muscle layer of band-like cells surrounding the alveoli to squeeze the newly produced milk into the duct system. Oxytocin is necessary for the \"milk ejection reflex\", or \"let-down\", in response to suckling, to occur.\n\nNot all of breast milk's properties are understood, but its nutrient content is relatively consistent. Breast milk is made from nutrients in the mother's bloodstream and bodily stores. It has an optimal balance of fat, sugar, water, and protein that is needed for a baby's growth and development. Breastfeeding triggers biochemical reactions which allows for the enzymes, hormones, growth factors and immunologic substances to effectively defend against infectious diseases for the infant. The breast milk also has long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids which help with normal retinal and neural development.\n\nThe composition of breast milk changes depending on how long the baby nurses at each session, as well as on the child's age. The first type, produced during the first days after childbirth, is called \"colostrum\". Colostrum is easy to digest although it is more concentrated than mature milk. It has a laxative effect that helps the infant to pass early stools, aiding in the excretion of excess bilirubin, which helps to prevent jaundice. It also helps to seal the infants gastrointestional tract from foreign substances, which may sensitize the baby to foods that the mother has eaten. Although the baby has received some antibodies through the placenta, colostrum contains a substance which is new to the newborn, secretory immunoglobulin A (IgA). IgA works to attack germs in the mucous membranes of the throat, lungs, and intestines, which are most likely to come under attack from germs.\n\nBreasts begin producing mature milk around the third or fourth day after birth.\nEarly in a nursing session, the breasts produce \"foremilk\", a thinner milk containing many proteins and vitamins. If the baby keeps nursing, then \"hindmilk\" is produced. Hindmilk has a creamier color and texture because it contains more fat.\n\nBreastfeeding can begin immediately after birth. The baby is placed on the mother and feeding starts as soon as the baby shows interest. According to some authorities the majority of infants do not immediately begin to suckle if placed between the mother's breasts but rather enter a period of rest and quiet alertness. During this time they seem to be more interested in the mother's face, especially her eyes, than beginning to suckle. It has been speculated that this period of infant-mother interaction assists in the mother-child bonding for both mother and baby.\n\nThere is increasing evidence that suggests that early skin-to-skin contact (also called kangaroo care) between mother and baby stimulates breastfeeding behavior in the baby. Newborns who are immediately placed on their mother’s skin have a natural instinct to latch on to the breast and start nursing, typically within one hour of birth. Immediate skin-to-skin contact may provide a form of imprinting that makes subsequent feeding significantly easier. In addition to more successful breastfeeding and bonding, immediate skin-to-skin contact reduces crying and warms the baby.\n\nAccording to studies cited by UNICEF, babies naturally follow a process which leads to a first breastfeed. Initially after birth the baby cries with its first breaths. Shortly after, it relaxes and makes small movements of the arms, shoulders and head. If placed on the mother's abdomen the baby then crawls towards the breast, called the breast crawl and begins to feed. After feeding, it is normal for a baby to remain latched to the breast while resting. This is sometimes mistaken for lack of appetite. Absent interruptions, all babies follow this process. Rushing or interrupting the process, such as removing the baby to weigh him/her, may complicate subsequent feeding. Activities such as weighing, measuring, bathing, needle-sticks, and eye prophylaxis wait until after the first feeding.\"\n\nCurrent research strongly supports immediate skin-to-skin mother-baby contact even if the baby is born by Cesarean surgery. The baby is placed on the mother in the operating room or the recovery area. If the mother is unable to immediately hold the baby a family member can provide skin-to-skin care until the mother is able. The La Leche League suggests early skin-to-skin care following an unexpected surgical rather than vaginal delivery \"may help heal any feelings of sadness or disappointment if birth did not go as planned.\"\n\nChildren who are born preterm have difficulty in initiating breast feeds immediately after birth. By convention, such children are often fed on expressed breast milk or other supplementary feeds through tubes or bottles until they develop satisfactory ability to suck breast milk. Tube feeding, though commonly used, is not supported by scientific evidence as of October 2016. It has also been reported in the same systematic review that by avoiding bottles and using cups instead to provide supplementary feeds to preterm children, a greater extent of breast feeding for a longer duration can subsequently be achieved.\n\nNewborn babies typically express demand for feeding every one to three hours (8–12 times in 24 hours) for the first two to four weeks.\nA newborn has a very small stomach capacity. At one-day old it is 5–7 ml, about the size of a large marble; at day three it is 22–30 ml, about the size of a ping-pong ball; and at day seven it is 45–60 ml, or about the size of a golf ball. The amount of breast milk that is produced is timed to meet the infant's needs in that the first milk, colostrum, is concentrated but produced in only very small amounts, gradually increasing in volume to meet the expanding size of the infant's stomach capacity.\n\nAccording to La Leche League International, \"Experienced breastfeeding mothers learn that the sucking patterns and needs of babies vary. While some infants' sucking needs are met primarily during feedings, other babies may need additional sucking at the breast soon after a feeding even though they are not really hungry. Babies may also nurse when they are lonely, frightened or in pain...Comforting and meeting sucking needs at the breast is nature's original design. Pacifiers (dummies, soothers) are a substitute for the mother when she cannot be available. Other reasons to pacify a baby primarily at the breast include superior oral-facial development, prolonged lactational amenorrhea, avoidance of nipple confusion, and stimulation of an adequate milk supply to ensure higher rates of breastfeeding success.\"\n\nDuring the newborn period, most breastfeeding sessions take from 20 to 45 minutes. After one breast is empty, the mother may offer the other breast.\n\nHealth organizations recommend exclusive breastfeeding for six months following birth. Exclusive breastfeeding is defined as \"an infant's consumption of human milk with no supplementation of any type (no water, no juice, no nonhuman milk and no foods) except for vitamins, minerals and medications.\" In some countries, including the United States, UK, and Canada, daily vitamin D supplementation is recommended for all breastfed infants.\n\nAfter solids are introduced at around six months of age, continued breastfeeding is recommended. The AAP recommends that babies be breastfed at least until 12 months, or longer if both the mother and child wish. WHO's guidelines recommend \"continue[d] frequent, on-demand breastfeeding until two years of age or beyond.\"\n\nThe vast majority of mothers can produce enough milk to fully meet the nutritional needs of their baby for six months. Breast milk supply augments in response to the baby's demand for milk, and decreases when milk is allowed to remain in the breasts. Low milk supply is usually caused by allowing milk to remain in the breasts for long periods of time, or insufficiently draining the breasts during feeds. It is usually preventable, unless caused by medical conditions that have been estimated to affect up to five percent of women. While some mothers believe that drinking a lot of fluids increases milk supply, fluid intake does not affect milk volume. \"Drink when thirsty\" is advised. If the baby is latching and swallowing well, but is not gaining weight as expected or is showing signs of dehydration, low milk supply in the mother can be suspected.\n\nMost US states now have laws that allow a mother to breastfeed her baby anywhere. In hospitals, rooming-in care permits the baby to stay with the mother and simplifies the process. Some commercial establishments provide breastfeeding rooms, although laws generally specify that mothers may breastfeed anywhere, without requiring a special area. In the United Kingdom, the Equality Act 2010 makes the prevention of a woman breastfeeding in any public place discrimination under the law. In Scotland, it is a criminal offense to try to prevent a woman feeding a child under 24 months in public.\n\nIn 2014, newly elected Pope Francis drew worldwide commentary when he encouraged mothers to breastfeed babies in church. During a papal baptism, he said that mothers \"should not stand on ceremony\" if their children were hungry. \"If they are hungry, mothers, feed them, without thinking twice,\" he said, smiling. \"Because they are the most important people here.\"\n\nCorrect positioning and technique for latching on are necessary to prevent nipple soreness and allow the baby to obtain enough milk.\n\nBabies can successfully latch on to the breast from multiple positions. Each baby may prefer a particular position. The \"football\" hold places the baby's legs next to the mother's side with the baby facing the mother. Using the \"cradle\" or \"cross-body\" hold, the mother supports the baby's head in the crook of her arm. The \"cross-over\" hold is similar to the cradle hold, except that the mother supports the baby's head with the opposite hand. The mother may choose a reclining position on her back or side with the baby lying next to her.\nLatching on refers to how the baby fastens onto the breast while feeding. The rooting reflex is the baby's natural tendency to turn towards the breast with the mouth open wide; mothers sometimes make use of this by gently stroking the baby's cheek or lips with their nipple to induce the baby to move into position for a breastfeeding session. Infants also use their sense of smell in finding the nipple. Sebaceous glands called Glands of Montgomery located in the areola secrete an oily fluid that lubricates the nipple. The visible portions of the glands can be seen on the skin's surface as small round bumps. They become more pronounced during pregnancy and it is speculated that the infant is attracted to the odor of the secretions.\nOne study found that when one of the breasts was washed with unscented soap the baby preferred the other one, suggesting that plain water would be the best washing substance while the baby is becoming accustomed to nursing.\n\nIn a good latch, a large amount of the areola, in addition to the nipple, is in the baby's mouth. The nipple should be angled towards the roof of the mouth, and the baby's lips should be flanged out.\nIn some cases in which a baby seems unable to latch on properly the problem may be related to a medical condition called ankyloglossia, also referred to as \"tongue-tied\". In this condition a baby can't get a good latch because their tongue is stuck to the bottom of their mouth by a band of tissue and they can't open their mouth wide enough or keep their tongue over the lower gum while sucking. If an infant is unable to hold their tongue in the correct position they may chew rather than suck, causing both a lack of nutrition for the baby and significant nipple pain for the mother. If it is determined that the inability to latch on properly is related to ankyloglossia, a simple surgical procedure can correct the condition.\n\nAt one time it was thought that massage of the nipples before the birth of the baby would help to toughen them up and thus avoid possible nipple soreness. It is now known that a good latch is the best prevention of nipple pain. There is also less concern about small, flat, and even \"inverted\" nipples as it is now believed that a baby can still achieve a good latch with perhaps a little extra effort. In one type of inverted nipple, the nipple easily becomes erect when stimulated, but in a second type, termed a \"true inverted nipple,\" the nipple shrinks back into the breast when the areola is squeezed. According to La Leche League, \"There is debate about whether pregnant women should be screened for flat or inverted nipples and whether treatments to draw out the nipple should be routinely recommended. Some experts believe that a baby who is latched on well can draw an inverted nipple far enough back into his mouth to nurse effectively.\" La Leche League offers several techniques to use during pregnancy or even in the early days following birth that may help to bring a flat or inverted nipple out.\n\nLactation consultants are trained to assist mothers in preventing and solving breastfeeding difficulties such as sore nipples and low milk supply. They commonly work in hospitals, physician or midwife practices, public health programs, and private practice. Exclusive and partial breastfeeding are more common among mothers who gave birth in hospitals that employ trained breastfeeding consultants.\n\nApproximately 60% of full-term infants develop jaundice within several days of birth. Jaundice, or yellowing of the skin and eyes, occurs when a normal substance, bilirubin, builds up in the newborn’s bloodstream faster than the liver can break it down and excrete it through the baby’s stool. By breastfeeding more frequently or for longer periods of time, the infant’s body can usually rid itself of the bilirubin excess. However, in some cases, the infant may need additional treatments to keep the condition from progressing into more severe problems.\n\nThere are two types of newborn jaundice. Breast milk jaundice occurs in about 1 in 200 babies. Here the jaundice isn’t usually visible until the baby is a week old. It often reaches its peak during the second or third week. Breast milk jaundice can be caused by substances in mother’s milk that decrease the infant’s liver’s ability to deal with bilirubin. Breast milk jaundice rarely causes any problems, whether it is treated or not. It is usually not a reason to stop nursing.\n\nA different type of jaundice, Breastfeeding jaundice, may occur in the first week of life in more than 1 in 10 breastfed infants. The cause is thought to be inadequate milk intake, leading to dehydration or low caloric intake. When the baby is not getting enough milk bowel movements are small and infrequent so that the bilirubin that was in the baby’s gut gets reabsorbed into the blood instead of being passed in bowel movements. Inadequate intake may be because the mother's milk is taking longer than average to \"come in\" or because the baby is poorly latched while nursing. If the baby is properly latching the mother should offer more frequent nursing sessions to increase hydration for the baby and encourage her breasts to produce more milk. If poor latch is thought to be the problem, a lactation expert should assess and advise.\n\nWeaning is the process of replacing breast milk with other foods; the infant is fully weaned after the replacement is complete. Psychological factors affect the weaning process for both mother and infant, as issues of closeness and separation are very prominent. If the baby is less than a year old substitute bottles are necessary; an older baby may accept milk from a cup. Unless a medical emergency necessitates abruptly stopping breastfeeding, it is best to gradually cut back on feedings to allow the breasts to adjust to the decreased demands without becoming engorged. La Leche League advises: \"The nighttime feeding is usually the last to go. Make a bedtime routine not centered around breastfeeding. A good book or two will eventually become more important than a long session at the breast.\"\n\nIf breastfeeding is suddenly stopped a woman's breasts are likely to become engorged with milk. Pumping small amounts to relieve discomfort helps to gradually train the breasts to produce less milk. There is presently no safe medication to prevent engorgement, but cold compresses and ibuprofen may help to relieve pain and swelling. Pain should go away in one to five days. If symptoms continue and comfort measures are not helpful a woman should consider the possibility that a blocked milk duct or infection may be present and seek medical intervention.\n\nWhen weaning is complete the mother's breasts return to their previous size after several menstrual cycles. If the mother was experiencing lactational amenorrhea her periods will return along with the return of her fertility. When no longer breastfeeding she will need to adjust her diet to avoid weight gain.\n\nAlmost all medicines pass into breastmilk in small amounts. Some have no effect on the baby and can be used while breastfeeding. Many medications are known to significantly suppress milk production, including pseudoephedrine, diuretics, and contraceptives that contain estrogen.\n\nThe American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) states that \"tobacco smoking by mothers is not a contraindication to breastfeeding.\" Breastfeeding is actually \"especially\" recommended for mothers who smoke, because of its protective effects against SIDS.\n\nWith respect to alcohol, the AAP states that when breastfeeding, \"moderation is definitely advised\" and recommends waiting for 2 hours after drinking before nursing or pumping. A 2014 review found that \"even in a theoretical case of binge drinking, the children would not be subjected to clinically relevant amounts of alcohol [through breastmilk]\", and would have no adverse effects on children as long as drinking is \"occasional\".\n\nA mother can \"express\" (produce) her milk for storage and later use. Expression occurs with massage or a breast pump. It can be stored in freezer storage bags, containers made specifically for breastmilk, a supplemental nursing system, or a bottle ready for use. Using someone other than the mother/wet nurse to deliver the bottle maintains the baby's association of nursing with the mother/wet nurse and bottle feeding with other people.\n\nBreast milk may be kept at room temperature for up to six hours, refrigerated for up to eight days or frozen for six to twelve months. Research suggests that the antioxidant activity in expressed breast milk decreases over time, but remains at higher levels than in infant formula.\n\nMothers express milk for multiple reasons. Expressing breast milk can maintain a mother's milk supply when she and her child are apart. A sick baby who is unable to nurse can take expressed milk through a nasogastric tube. Some babies are unable or unwilling to nurse. Expressed milk is the feeding method of choice for premature babies. Viral disease transmission can be prevented by expressing breast milk and subjecting it to Holder pasteurisation. Some women donate expressed breast milk (EBM) to others, either directly or through a milk bank. This allows mothers who cannot breastfeed to give their baby the benefits of breast milk.\n\nBabies feed differently with artificial nipples than from a breast. With the breast, the infant's tongue massages the milk out rather than sucking, and the nipple does not go as far into the mouth. Drinking from a bottle takes less effort and the milk may come more rapidly, potentially causing the baby to lose desire for the breast. This is called \"nursing strike, nipple strike\" or \"nipple confusion\". To avoid this, expressed milk can be given by means such as spoons or cups.\n\n\"Exclusively expressing\", \"exclusively pumping\", and \"EPing\" are terms for a mother who exclusively feeds her baby expressed milk. With good pumping habits, particularly in the first 12 weeks while establishing the milk supply, it is possible to express enough milk to feed the baby indefinitely. With the improvements in breast pumps, many women exclusively feed expressed milk, expressing milk at work in lactation rooms. Women can leave their infants in the care of others while traveling, while maintaining a supply of breast milk.\n\nIt is not only the mother who may breastfeed her child. She may hire another woman to do so (a wet nurse), or she may share childcare with another mother (cross-nursing). Both of these were common throughout history. It remains popular in some developing nations, including those in Africa, for more than one woman to breastfeed a child. Shared breastfeeding is a risk factor for HIV infection in infants. Shared nursing can sometimes provoke negative social reactions in the English-speaking world.\n\nIt is possible for a mother to continue breastfeeding an older sibling while also breastfeeding a new baby; this is called \"tandem nursing\". During the late stages of pregnancy, the milk changes to colostrum. While some children continue to breastfeed even with this change, others may wean. Most mothers can produce enough milk for tandem nursing, but the new baby should be nursed first for at least the first few days after delivery to ensure that it receives enough colostrum.\n\nBreastfeeding triplets or larger broods is a challenge given babies' varying appetites. Breasts can respond to the demand and produce larger milk quantities; mothers have breastfed triplets successfully.\n\nInduced lactation, also called \"adoptive lactation\", is the process of starting breastfeeding in a woman who did not give birth. This usually requires the adoptive mother to take hormones and other drugs to stimulate breast development and promote milk production. In some cultures, breastfeeding an adoptive child creates milk kinship that built community bonds across class and other hierarchal bonds.\n\nRe-lactation is the process of restarting breastfeeding. In developing countries, mothers may restart breastfeeding after a weaning as part of an oral rehydration treatment for diarrhea. In developed countries, re-lactation is common after early medical problems are resolved, or because a mother changes her mind about breastfeeding.\n\nRe-lactation is most easily accomplished with a newborn or with a baby that was previously breastfeeding; if the baby was initially bottle-fed, the baby may refuse to suckle. If the mother has recently stopped breastfeeding, she is more likely to be able to re-establish her milk supply, and more likely to have an adequate supply. Although some women successfully re-lactate after months-long interruptions, success is higher for shorter interruptions.\n\nTechniques to promote lactation use frequent attempts to breastfeed, extensive skin-to-skin contact with the baby, and frequent, long pumping sessions. Suckling may be encouraged with a tube filled with infant formula, so that the baby associates suckling at the breast with food. A dropper or syringe without the needle may be used to place milk onto the breast while the baby suckles. The mother should allow the infant to suckle at least ten times during 24 hours, and more times if he or she is interested. These times can include every two hours, whenever the baby seems interested, longer at each breast, and when the baby is sleepy when he or she might suckle more readily. In keeping with increasing contact between mother and child, including increasing skin-to-skin contact, grandmothers should pull back and help in other ways. Later on, grandmothers can again provide more direct care for the infant.\n\nThese techniques require the mother's commitment over a period of weeks or months. However, even when lactation is established, the supply may not be large enough to breastfeed exclusively. A supportive social environment improves the likelihood of success. As the mother's milk production increases, other feeding can decrease. Parents and other family members should watch the baby's weight gain and urine output to assess nutritional adequacy.\n\nA WHO manual for physicians and senior health workers citing a 1992 source states: \"If a baby has been breastfeeding sometimes, the breastmilk supply increases in a few days. If a baby has stopped breastfeeding, it may take 1-2 weeks or more before much breastmilk comes.\"\n\nExtended breastfeeding means breastfeeding after the age of 12 or 24 months, depending on the source. In Western countries such as the United States, Canada, and Great Britain, extended breastfeeding is relatively uncommon and can provoke criticism.\n\nIn the United States, 22.4% of babies are breastfed for 12 months, the minimum amount of time advised by the American Academy of Pediatrics. In India, mothers commonly breastfeed for 2 to 3 years.\n\nSupport for breastfeeding is universal among major health and children's organizations. WHO states, \"Breast milk is the ideal food for the healthy growth and development of infants; breastfeeding is also an integral part of the reproductive process with important implications for the health of mothers.\".\n\nBreastfeeding decreases the risk of a number of diseases in both mothers and babies. The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends efforts to promote breastfeeding.\n\nA United Nations resolution promoting breast feeding was passed despite opposition form the Trump administration. Lucy Sullivan of 1,000 Days, an international group seeking to improve baby and infant nutrition, stated this was \"public health versus private profit. What is at stake: breastfeeding saves women and children’s lives. It is also bad for the multibillion-dollar global infant formula (and dairy) business.\"\n\nEarly breastfeeding is associated with fewer nighttime feeding problems. Early skin-to-skin contact between mother and baby improves breastfeeding outcomes and increases cardio-respiratory stability. Reviews from 2007 found numerous benefits. Breastfeeding aids general health, growth and development in the infant. Infants who are not breastfed are at mildly increased risk of developing acute and chronic diseases, including lower respiratory infection, ear infections, bacteremia, bacterial meningitis, botulism, urinary tract infection and necrotizing enterocolitis. Breastfeeding may protect against sudden infant death syndrome, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, lymphoma, allergic diseases, digestive diseases, obesity, develop diabetes, or childhood leukemia later in life. and may enhance cognitive development.\n\nThe average breastfed baby doubles its birth weight in 5–6 months. By one year, a typical breastfed baby weighs about 2-1/2 times its birth weight. At one year, breastfed babies tend to be leaner than formula-fed babies, which improves long-run health.\n\nThe Davis Area Research on Lactation, Infant Nutrition and Growth (DARLING) study reported that breastfed and formula-fed groups had similar weight gain during the first 3 months, but the breastfed babies began to drop below the median beginning at 6 to 8 months and were significantly lower weight than the formula-fed group between 6 and 18 months. Length gain and head circumference values were similar between groups, suggesting that the breastfed babies were leaner.\n\nBreast milk contains several anti-infective factors such as bile salt stimulated lipase (protecting against amoebic infections) and lactoferrin (which binds to iron and inhibits the growth of intestinal bacteria).\n\nExclusive breastfeeding till six months of age helps to protect an infant from gastrointestinal infections in both developing and industrialized countries. The risk of death due to diarrhea and other infections increases when babies are either partially breastfed or not breastfed at all.\nInfants who are exclusively breastfed for the first six months are less likely to die of gastrointestinal infections than infants who switched from exclusive to partial breastfeeding at three to four months.\n\nDuring breastfeeding, approximately 0.25–0.5 grams per day of secretory IgA antibodies pass to the baby via milk. This is one of the important features of colostrum. The main target for these antibodies are probably microorganisms in the baby's intestine. The rest of the body displays some uptake of IgA, but this amount is relatively small.\n\nMaternal vaccinations while breastfeeding is safe for almost all vaccines. Additionally, the mother's immunity obtained by vaccination against tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough and influenza can protect the baby from these diseases, and breastfeeding can reduce fever rate after infant immunization. However, smallpox and yellow fever vaccines increase the risk of infants developing vaccinia and encephalitis.\n\nBabies who receive no breast milk are almost six times more likely to die by the age of one month than those who are partially or fully breastfed.\n\nThe protective effect of breastfeeding against obesity is consistent, though small, across many studies. A 2013 longitudinal study reported less obesity at ages two and four years among infants who were breastfed for at least four months.\n\nIn children who are at risk for developing allergic diseases (defined as at least one parent or sibling having atopy), atopic syndrome can be prevented or delayed through 4-month exclusive breastfeeding, though these benefits may not persist.\n\nBreastfeeding may reduce the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC).\n\nBreastfeeding or introduction of gluten while breastfeeding don't protect against celiac disease among at-risk children. Breast milk of healthy human mothers who eat gluten-containing foods presents high levels of non-degraded gliadin (the main gluten protein). Early introduction of traces of gluten in babies to potentially induce tolerance doesn't reduce the risk of developing celiac disease. Delaying the introduction of gluten does not prevent, but is associated with a delayed onset of the disease.\n\nAbout 19% of leukemia cases may be prevented by breastfeeding for six months or longer.\n\nBreastfeeding may decrease the risk of cardiovascular disease in later life, as indicated by lower cholesterol and C-reactive protein levels in breastfed adult women. Breastfed infants have somewhat lower blood pressure later in life, but it is unclear how much practical benefit this provides.\n\nA 1998 study suggested that breastfed babies have a better chance of good dental health than formula-fed infants because of the developmental effects of breastfeeding on the oral cavity and airway. It was thought that with fewer malocclusions, breastfed children may have a reduced need for orthodontic intervention. The report suggested that children with a well rounded, \"U-shaped\" dental arch, which is found more commonly in breastfed children, may have fewer problems with snoring and sleep apnea in later life. A 2016 review found that breastfeeding protected against malocclusions.\n\nBreastfeeding duration has been correlated with child maltreatment outcomes, including neglect and sexual abuse.\n\nIt is unclear whether breastfeeding improves intelligence later in life. Several studies found no relationship after controlling for confounding factors like maternal intelligence (smarter mothers were more likely to breastfeed their babies). However, other studies concluded that breastfeeding was associated with increased cognitive development in childhood, although the cause may be increased mother–child interaction rather than nutrition.\n\nHormones released during breastfeeding help to strengthen the maternal bond. Teaching partners how to manage common difficulties is associated with higher breastfeeding rates. Support for a breastfeeding mother can strengthen familial bonds and help build a paternal bond.\n\nExclusive breastfeeding usually delays the return of fertility through lactational amenorrhea, although it does not provide reliable birth control. Breastfeeding may delay the return to fertility for some women by suppressing ovulation. Mothers may not ovulate, or have regular periods, during the entire lactation period. The non-ovulating period varies by individual. This has been used as natural contraception, with greater than 98% effectiveness during the first six months after birth if specific nursing behaviors are followed.\n\nWhile breastfeeding soon after birth is believed to increase uterus contraction and reduce bleeding, high quality evidence to support this is lacking.\n\nIt is unclear whether breastfeeding causes mothers to lose weight after giving birth. The National Institutes of Health states that it may help with weight loss.\n\nFor breastfeeding women, long-term health benefits include reduced risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and endometrial cancer.\n\nA 2011 review found it unclear whether breastfeeding affects the risk of postpartum depression. Later reviews have found tentative evidence of a lower risk among mothers who successfully breastfeed.\n\nBreastfeeding of babies is associated with a lower chance of developing diabetes mellitus type 1. Breastfed babies also appear to have a lower likelihood of developing diabetes mellitus type 2 later in life. Breastfeeding is also associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes among mothers who practice it.\n\nThe majority of mothers intend to breastfeed at birth. Many factors can disrupt this intent. Research done in the US shows that information about breastfeeding is rarely provided by a women's obstetricians during their prenatal visits and some health professionals incorrectly believe that commercially prepared formula is nutritionally equivalent to breast milk. Many hospitals have instituted practices that encourage breastfeeding, however a 2012 survey in the US found that 24% of maternity services were still providing supplements of commercial infant formula as a general practice in the first 48 hours after birth. \"The Surgeon General’s Call to Action to Support Breastfeeding\" attempts to educate practitioners. Breastfeeding support leads to increasing the duration and exclusivity of breastfeeding.\n\nPositive social support in essential relationships of new mothers plays a central role in the promotion of breastfeeding outside of the confines of medical centers. Social support can come in many incarnations, including tangible, affectionate, social interaction, and emotional and informational support. An increase in these capacities of support has shown to greatly positively effect breastfeeding rates, especially among women with education below a high school level. In the social circles surrounding the mother, support is most crucial from the male partner, the mother's mother, and her family and friends. Research has shown that the closest relationships to the mother have the strongest impact on breastfeeding rates, while negative perspectives on breastfeeding from close relatives hinder its prevalence.\n\n\nWork is the most commonly cited reason for not breastfeeding. In 2012 Save the Children examined maternity leave laws, ranking 36 industrialized countries according to their support for breastfeeding. Norway ranked first, while the United States came in last. Maternity leave in the US varies widely, including by state. The United States does not mandate paid maternity leave for any employee however the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) guarantees qualifying mothers up to 12 weeks unpaid leave although the majority of US mothers resume work earlier. A large 2011 study found that women who returned to work at or after 13 weeks after childbirth were more likely to predominantly breastfeed beyond three months.\n\nBreastfeeding can generally be attempted after breast augmentation or reduction surgery, however prior breast surgery is a risk factor for low milk supply.\n\nA 2014 systemic review found that women who have breast implant surgery were less likely to exclusively breast feed, however it was based on only three small studies and the reasons for the correlation were not clear. \nA large follow-up study done in 2014 found a reduced rate of breastfeeding in women who had undergone breast augmentation surgery, however again the reasons were unclear. The authors suggested that women contemplating augmentation should be provided with information related to the rates of successful breastfeeding as part of informed decision making when contemplating surgery.\nPrior breast reduction surgery is strongly associated with an increased probability of low milk supply due to disruption to tissues and nerves. Some surgical techniques for breast reduction appear to be more successful than others in preserving the tissues that generate and channel milk to the nipple. A 2017 review found that women were more likely to have success with breastfeeding with these techniques.\n\nInfants that are otherwise healthy uniformly benefit from breastfeeding, however, extra precautions should be taken or breastfeeding be avoided in circumstances including certain infectious diseases. A breastfeeding child can become infected with HIV. Factors such as the viral load in the mother’s milk complicate breastfeeding recommendations for HIV-positive mothers.\n\nIn mothers who are treated with antiretroviral drugs the risk of HIV transmission with breastfeeding is 1–2%. Therefore, of breastfeeding is still recommended in areas of the world with death from infectious diseases is common. Infant formula should only be given if this can be safely done.\n\nWHO recommends that national authorities in each country decide which infant feeding practice should be promoted by their maternal and child health services to best avoid HIV transmission from mother to child. Other maternal infection of concern include active untreated tuberculosis or human T-lymphotropic virus.\n\nBreastfeeding mothers should inform their healthcare provider about all of the medications they are taking, including herbal products. Nursing mothers may be immunized and may take most over-the-counter drugs and prescription drugs without risk to the baby but certain drugs, including some painkillers and some psychiatric drugs, may pose a risk.\n\nThe US National Library of Medicine publishes \"LactMed\", an up-to-date online database of information on drugs and lactation. Geared to both healthcare practitioners and nursing mothers, LactMed contains over 450 drug records with information such as potential drug effects and alternate drugs to consider.\n\nSome substances in the mother's food and drink are passed to the baby through breast milk, including mercury (found in some carnivorous fish), caffeine, and bisphenol A.\n\nUndiagnosed maternal celiac disease may cause a short duration of the breastfeeding period. Treatment with the gluten-free diet can increase its duration and restore it to the average value of the healthy women.\n\nMothers with all types of diabetes mellitus normally use insulin to control their blood sugar, as the safety of other antidiabetic drugs while breastfeeding is unknown.\n\nWomen with polycystic ovary syndrome, which is associated with some hormonal differences and obesity, may have greater difficulty with producing a sufficient supply to support exclusive breastfeeding, especially during the first weeks.\n\nRace, ethnicity and socioeconomic status affect choice and duration in the United States. A 2011 study found that on average, US women who breastfed had higher levels of education, were older and were more likely to be white.\n\nThe rates of breastfeeding in the African-American community remain much lower than any other race, for a variety of reasons. These include the legacy of Wet nursing during slavery, as well as systemic racism in the American healthcare system that does not offer adequate support to African-American breastfeeding mothers . While for other races as socio-economic class raises rates of breastfeeding also go up, for the African-American community breastfeeding rates remain consistently low regardless of socio-economic class. Within the African-American community, social stigma exists because of the association of breastfeeding with the legacy of wet-nursing during slavery. Because of breastfeeding’s well-documented benefits to both baby and mother, many blactavists – Black Lactation Activists, such as Kimberly Seals Allers advocate and support breastfeeding in the African-American community.\n\nThere are also racial disparities in access to maternity care practices that support breastfeeding. In the US, primarily African-American neighborhoods are more likely to have facilities (such as hospitals and female healthcare clinics) that do not support breastfeeding, contributing to the low rate of breastfeeding in the African-American community. Comparing facilities in primarily African American neighborhoods to ones in primarily White neighborhoods, the rates of practices that support or discourage breastfeeding were: limited use of supplements (13.1% compared with 25.8%) and rooming-in (27.7–39.4%) \nLow-income mothers are more likely to have unintended pregnancies. Mothers whose pregnancies are unintended are less likely to breastfeed.\n\nEspecially the combination of powdered formula with unclean water can be very harmful to the health of babies. In the late 1970s, there was a boycott against Nestle due to the great number of baby deaths due to formula. Dr. Michele Barry explains that breastfeeding is most imperative in poverty environments due to the lack of access of clean water for the formula. The Lancet study in 2016 discovered that universal breastfeeding would prevent the deaths of 800,000 children as well as save $300,000,000.\n\nSome women feel discomfort when breastfeeding in public. Public breastfeeding may be forbidden in some places, not addressed by law in others, and a legal right in others. Even given a legal right, some mothers are reluctant to breastfeed, while others may object to the practice.\n\nThe use of infant formula was thought to be a way for western culture to adapt to negative perceptions of breastfeeding. The breast pump offered a way for mothers to supply breast milk with most of formula feeding's convenience and without enduring possible disapproval of nursing. Some may object to breastfeeding because of the implicit association between infant feeding and sex. These negative cultural connotations may reduce breastfeeding duration.\nMaternal guilt and shame is often affected by how a mother feeds her infant. These emotions occur in both bottle- and breast- feeding mothers, although for different reasons. Bottle feeding mothers may feel that they should be breastfeeding. Conversely, breastfeeding mothers may feel forced to feed in uncomfortable circumstances. Some may see breastfeeding as, \"indecent, disgusting, animalistic, sexual, and even possibly a perverse act.\" Advocates (known by the neologism \"lactivists\") use \"nurse-ins\" to show support for breastfeeding in public. Some advocates emphasize providing women with education on breastfeeding's benefits as well as problem-solving skills. However, there is no conclusive evidence that breastfeeding education during pregnancy improves initiation of breastfeeding, the duration of breastfeeding, or the proportion of women breastfeeding either exclusively or partially at 3 months and 6 months.\n\nGlobally about 38% of babies are just breastfeed during their first six months of life. In the United States as of 2012, 75% of women started breastfeeding, 43% breastfeed for six months though only 13% exclusively breastfed, and 23% breastfeed for twelve months. In the United States African-American women have persistently low rates of breastfeeding compared to White and Hispanic American women. 58.1% of African-American women breastfeed in the early postpartum period, compared to 77.7% of White women and 80.6% of Hispanic women.\n\nBreastfeeding rates in different parts of China vary considerably.\n\nBreastfeeding rates in the United Kingdom were the lowest in the world in 2015 with only 0.5% of mothers still breastfeeding at a year, while in Germany 23% are doing so, 56% in Brazil and 99% in Senegal.\n\nIn Australia for children born in 2004, more than 90% were initially breastfed. In Canada for children born in 2005-06, more than 50% were only breastfed and more than 15% received both breastmilk and other liquids, by the age of 3 months.\n\nIn the Egyptian, Greek and Roman empires, women usually fed only their own children. However, breastfeeding began to be seen as something too common to be done by royalty, and wet nurses were employed to breastfeed the children of the royal families. This extended over time, particularly in western Europe, where noble women often made use of wet nurses. Lower-class women breastfed their infants and used a wet nurse only if they were unable to feed their own infant. Attempts were made in 15th-century Europe to use cow or goat milk, but these attempts were not successful. In the 18th century, flour or cereal mixed with broth were introduced as substitutes for breastfeeding, but this provided inadequate nutrition. The appearance of improved infant formulas in the mid 19th century and its increased use caused a decrease in breastfeeding rates, which accelerated after World War II, and for some in the US, Canada, and UK, breastfeeding was seen as uncultured. From the 1960s onwards, breastfeeding experienced a revival which continued into the 2000s, though negative attitudes towards the practice were still entrenched in some countries up to 1990s.\n\nIn languages around the world, the word for \"mother\" is something like \"mama\". The linguist Roman Jakobson hypothesized that the nasal sound in \"mama\" comes from the nasal murmur that babies produce when breastfeeding.\n\nIn some cultures, people who have been breastfed by the same woman are milk-siblings who are equal in legal and social standing to a consanguineous sibling. Islam has a complex system of rules regarding this, known as \"Rada (fiqh)\". Like the Christian practice of godparenting, milk kinship established a second family that could take responsibility for a child whose biological parents came to harm. \"Milk kinship in Islam thus appears to be a culturally distinctive, but by no means unique, institutional form of adoptive kinship.\"\n\nBreastfeeding is less costly than alternatives, but the mother generally must eat more food than she would otherwise. In the US, the extra money spent on food (about US$ each week) is usually about half as much money as the cost of infant formula.\n\nBreastfeeding reduces health care costs and the cost of caring for sick babies. Parents of breastfed babies are less likely to miss work and lose income because their babies are sick. Looking at three of the most common infant illnesses, lower respiratory tract illnesses, otitis media, and gastrointestinal illness, one study compared infants that had been exclusively breastfed for at least three months to those who had not. It found that in the first year of life there were 2033 excess office visits, 212 excess days of hospitalization, and 609 excess prescriptions for these three illnesses per 1000 never-breastfed infants compared with 1000 infants exclusively breastfed for at least 3 months.\n\nThere are controversies and ethical considerations surrounding the means used by public campaigns which attempt to increase breastfeeding rates, relating to pressure put on women, and potential feeling of guilt and shame of women who fail to breastfeed; and social condemnation of women who use formula.\n\nIt is widely assumed that if women’s healthcare providers encourage them to breastfeed, those who choose not to will experience more guilt. Evidence does not support this assumption. On the contrary, a study on the effects of prenatal breastfeeding counselling found that those who had received such counselling and chosen to formula-feed denied experiencing feelings of guilt. Women were equally comfortable with their subsequent choices for feeding their infant regardless of whether they had received encouragement to breastfeed.\n\nPreventing a situation where women are denied agency and/or stigmatized for formula use is also seen as important. In 2018, in the UK, a policy statement from the Royal College of Midwives said that women should be supported and not stigmatized, if after being given advice and information, they choose to formula feed.\n\nSocial marketing is a marketing approach intended to change people's behavior to benefit both individuals and society. When applied to breastfeeding promotion, social marketing works to provide positive messages and images of breastfeeding to increase visibility. Social marketing in the context of breastfeeding has shown efficacy in media campaigns. \nSome oppose the marketing of infant formula, especially in developing countries. They are concerned that mothers who use formula will stop breastfeeding and become dependent upon substitutes that are unaffordable or less safe. Through efforts including the Nestlé boycott, they have advocated for bans on free samples of infant formula and for the adoption of pro-breastfeeding codes such as the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes by the World Health Assembly in 1981 and the Innocenti Declaration by WHO and UNICEF policy-makers in August 1990. Additionally, formula companies have spent millions internationally on campaigns to promote the use of formula as an alternative to mother's milk.\n\nThe Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative is a program launched by WHO in conjunction with UNICEF in order to promote infant feeding and maternal bonding through certified hospitals and birthing centers. BFHI was developed as a response to the influence held by formula companies in private and public maternal health care.The initiative has two core tenets: the Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding and the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes. The BFHI has especially targeted hospitals and birthing centers in the developing world, as these facilities are most at risk to the detrimental effects of reduced breastfeeding rates. As of 2018, 530 hospitals in the United States hold the \"Baby-Friendly\" title in all 50 states. Globally, there are more than 20,000 \"Baby-Friendly\" hospitals worldwide in over 150 countries.\n\nThe first depiction of breastfeeding on television was in the children's program, Sesame Street, in 1977. With few exceptions since that time breastfeeding on television has either been portrayed as strange, disgusting, or a source of comedy, or it has been omitted entirely in favor of bottle feeding.\n\nMany mothers have to return to work a short time after their babies have been born. In the U.S. about 70% of mothers with children younger than three years old work full time with 1/3 of the mothers returning to work within 3 months and 2/3 returning within 6 months. Working outside of the home and full time work are significantly associated with lower rates of breastfeeding and breastfeeding for a shorter duration of time.\nAccording to the CDC \"support for breastfeeding in the workplace includes several types of employee benefits and services, including writing corporate policies to support breastfeeding women; teaching employees about breastfeeding; providing designated private space for breastfeeding or expressing milk; allowing flexible scheduling to support milk expression during work; giving mothers options for returning to work, such as teleworking, part-time work, and extended maternity leave; providing on-site or near-site child care; providing high-quality breast pumps; and offering professional lactation management services.\"\n\nPrograms to promote and assist nursing mothers have been found to help maintain breastfeeding. In the United States the CDC reports on a study that \"examined the effect of corporate lactation programs on breastfeeding behavior among employed women in California [which] included prenatal classes, perinatal counseling, and lactation management after the return to work\". They found that \"about 75% of mothers in the lactation programs continued breastfeeding at least 6 months, although nationally only 10% of mothers employed full-time who initiated breastfeeding were still breastfeeding at 6 months.\"\n\nThe U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which was passed in 2010 requires that all nursing mothers be given a non-bathroom space to express milk and a reasonable break time to do so, however as of 2016 the majority of women still do not have access to both accommodations. A 2016 study found:\nAt least three issues may be influencing this suboptimal implementation at workplaces: 1) federal law does not address lactation space functionality and accessibility, 2) federal law only protects a subset of employees, and 3) enforcement of the federal law requires women to file a complaint with the United States Department of Labor. To address each of these issues, we recommend the following modifications to current law: 1) additional requirements surrounding lactation space and functionality, 2) mandated coverage of exempt employees, and 3) requirement that employers develop company-specific lactation policies.\nAccording to the authors, \"No mother should have to choose between breastfeeding her child and earning a paycheck.\"\n\nBreastfeeding research continues to assess prevalence, HIV transmission, pharmacology, costs, benefits, immunology, contraindications, and comparisons to synthetic breast milk substitutes. Factors related to the mental health of the nursing mother in the perinatal period have been studied. While cognitive behavior therapy may be the treatment of choice, medications are sometimes used. The use of therapy rather than medication reduces the infant's exposure to medication that may be transmitted through the milk. In coordination with institutional organisms, researchers are also studying the social impact of brestfeeding throughout history. Accordingly, strategies have been developed to foster the increase of the breastfeeding rates in the different countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "596825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596825", "title": "Cable (comics)", "text": "Cable (comics)\n\nCable (Nathan Summers) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with X-Force and the X-Men. The character first appeared as a newborn infant in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #201 (Jan. 1986) created by writer Chris Claremont, while Cable's adult identity was created by writer Louise Simonson and artist/co-writer Rob Liefeld, and first appeared in \"The New Mutants\" #87 (March 1990).\n\nNathan Summers is the biological son of the X-Men member Cyclops (Scott Summers) and Madelyne Pryor (Jean Grey's clone), the half brother of Rachel Summers and Nate Grey, and the genetic template for Stryfe. He is from a possible future timeline, having been transported as an infant to the future, where he grew into a warrior, before returning to the present.\n\nJosh Brolin portrays Cable in the \"X-Men\" film series, beginning with \"Deadpool 2\".\n\nNathan Christopher Charles Summers is the son of Scott Summers (aka Cyclops), and Madelyne Pryor (who was later revealed to be a clone of Jean Grey). Writer Chris Claremont, who had written the series since issue #94 (August 1975), revealed Madeline to be pregnant in \"X-Men/Alpha Flight\" #1 (December 1985). The next depiction of her pregnancy was in \"The Uncanny X-Men\" #200, when she goes into premature labor. In the following issue, #201 (January 1986), Nathan first appears as a newborn infant.\n\nThe character's first appearance as the adult warrior Cable was at the end of \"The New Mutants\" #86 (Feb. 1990). He does not appear anywhere in the issue's story, but the \"next issue\" teaser. This was followed by a full appearance in \"The New Mutants\" #87 (March 1990). At first, Cable was not intended to be the adult version of Nathan Summers, but was created as a result of unrelated editorial concerns. Editor Bob Harras wanted to \"shake things up\" for the book, and felt a new leader was needed, one distinct from the perennial X-Men leader and the New Mutants' first mentor, Professor X. The book's writer, Louise Simonson, thought a military leader would be a good idea, and Harras tasked the book's artist, Rob Liefeld, to conceptualize the character. Harras may also have suggested the character's bionic eye. Both Simonson and Liefeld each separately conceived of the leader being a time traveler from the future. Liefeld chose the name Cable for the character. Liefeld explains the creation of the character:\n\nHarras and writer/artists Jim Lee and Whilce Portacio, who were writing the \"X-Men\" spinoff \"X-Factor\" that starred Cyclops and the other four original X-Men, decided that Nathan would be sent into the future and grow up to become Cable. Liefeld, who conceived that Cable and his archenemy Stryfe were one and the same, disliked this idea. (Eventually Stryfe was revealed to be a clone of Cable.) In the 1991 \"X-Factor\" storyline, Nathan is infected by the villain Apocalypse with a techno-organic virus. Because he can only be saved by the technology of the far-future, Scott reluctantly allows Sister Askani, a member of a clan of warriors dedicated to opposing Apocalypse, to take Nathan into the future so that he can be cured, a one-way trip from which she tells him she and Nathan will be unable to return.\n\nIn his first adult appearance, Cable is seen in conflict with Stryfe's Mutant Liberation Front, the United States government, and Freedom Force. The New Mutants intervene and he asks for their help against the Mutant Liberation Front. Cable sees them as potential soldiers in his war against Stryfe, and becomes their new teacher and leader. He comes into conflict with Wolverine, who is revealed to harbor feud with Cable. Despite this, the two warriors and the New Mutants team up with and Sunfire against the MLF. Cable also leads the New Mutants against Cameron Hodge and the Genoshans in the 1990 \"X-Tinction Agenda\" storyline.\nWith the aid of Domino, Cable reorganizes the New Mutants into X-Force. \"The New Mutants\" ended with issue #100, with Cable and other characters then appearing the following month in \"X-Force\" #1. The \"X-Force\" series provided further detail for the character's back story revealing that he was from the future and that he had traveled to the past with the aim of stopping Stryfe's plans as well as preventing Apocalypse's rise to power. Cable traveled between the 1990s and his future with his ship \"Graymalkin\", which contained a sentient computer program called Professor, the future version of the program built into X-Factor's Ship.\n\nIn 1992, the character starred in a two issue miniseries, \"Cable: Blood and Metal\", written by Fabian Nicieza, pencilled by John Romita, Jr., and inked by Dan Green, published in October and November of that year. The series explored Cable and the villain Stryfe's ongoing battle with one another, and its effect on Cable's supporting cast.\n\nShortly after \"Blood and Metal\", Cable was given his own ongoing series titled Cable. Issue #6 (Dec. 1993) confirmed the character to be Nathan Christopher Summers, the son of Cyclops (Scott Summers) and Madelyne Pryor (Jean Grey's clone) who had been taken to the future in \"X-Factor\" #68 (July 1991), introduced by writer Chris Claremont, and appeared in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #201 (Jan. 1986). The series ran for 107 issues from May 1993 until September 2002 before being relaunched as Soldier X, which lasted 12 more issues until Aug. 2003.\n\nThe 1994 miniseries \"The Adventures of Cyclops and Phoenix\" provided further information on the character's back story. In the future, Mother Askani, a time-displaced Rachel Summers, pulled the minds of Scott and Jean into the future where, as \"Slym\" and \"Redd\", they raised Cable for twelve years. During their time together, the \"family\" prevented Apocalypse from transferring his essence into a new body, ending his reign of terror. It is furthermore established that Mister Sinister created Cyclops' son Nathan (who became the time-traveling soldier Cable) to destroy Apocalypse.\n\nAfter his solo series ended, he was paired with the mercenary Deadpool in a new ongoing series titled \"Cable & Deadpool\". The series largely dealt with Cable's efforts to change the world for the better, including turning his old spaceship \"Greymalkin\" into the floating utopian island of Providence. The first story arc of the series features a Cable that has learned to suppress his techno-organic virus to a nearly effortless degree, allowing him to access the better part of his vast psionic powers. He gains a power level similar to his Nate Grey counterpart from The Age of Apocalypse reality and tries to use them to force the people of the world to live in peace. Using his powers at this magnitude also means that he will die due to the vast power being too much for his body to continuously maintain. He tries to carry out his plans quickly, defeating the X-Men, Six Pack and S.H.I.E.L.D. with little effort. They turn the tide of the battle on Cable by enlisting the aid of the Silver Surfer. Cable and the Silver Surfer battled, destroying buildings and other structures but were immediately rebuilt by Cable's vast telekinesis. All the while Cable tried to explain his good intentions to the Surfer with no avail. Although Cable destroyed his board and briefly held his own against the Surfer, he was ultimately defeated when the Surfer destroyed Cable's arm. Around the same time period, Cable becomes a member of a team of X-Men that consists of Rogue, Iceman, Cannonball, Sabretooth, Mystique, Lady Mastermind, and Omega Sentinel. In preparation for , Cable seemingly died when he detonated Providence to prevent Gambit and Sunfire from stealing his database, causing the series to focus mostly on Deadpool for the next six or so issues. This series was canceled at the fiftieth issue and was replaced by two series starring each of the characters.\n\nIt is revealed that Cable survived, and has the mutant baby girl that the X-Men, Marauders, and Purifiers have been seeking during the Messiah Complex storyline. In 2008, Marvel Comics released \"Cable\" vol. 2, a new ongoing series by Duane Swierczynski and artist Ariel Olivetti. This new series directly follows the events of \"\". The series features Cable, and the messianic child's time traveling adventures. The dangers of the future and pursuit by Bishop are balanced with the humor of \"Cable the soldier\" becoming \"Cable the Nanny.\"\n\nIt is revealed that Cable and the mutant messiah have taken refuge in the future in the secluded safe haven of New Liberty. There, Cable gets married to a resident, Hope, who later dies defending the child. Cable decides to name her Hope, in honor of her deceased foster mother.\n\nIn 2009, \"Cable\" vol. 2 had a seven-issue crossover with \"X-Force\", \"X-Force/Cable: Messiah War\", which is the second story in a three-part storyline that began in \"X-Men: Messiah Complex\".\n\nAfter the events of the Messiah War, Hope and Cable are separated in time, appearing in the same spot but in different years. When Cable touches down from the spot, he appears two years after Hope, and is steadily losing control of his body due to the techno-organic virus within him. It alters his appearance so much that Hope doesn't register Cable's face. Eventually, Bishop, using his codename as a way to portray himself as a holy figure, gains on them, and Cable and Hope jettison themselves into space in the last ship the planet had. Bishop, armed with a thermonuclear device in the stump of his arm, states that he knows how to make his own ship and it'll only be a matter of time.\n\n\"Cable\" was canceled in April 2010 with issue #25 (the final issue being called \"Deadpool and Cable\" #25).\n\nIn the 2010 storyline \"\", Cable succumbs to the techno-organic virus in his bloodstream while holding open a time-portal that allowed other members of X-Force to escape from the future. The death was shown in \"X-Force\" #28 written by Craig Kyle and Chris Yost, who noted that, \"For us, Cable was always a character whose death was something the character himself would put forward—if that's what it took to complete his mission, he wouldn't think twice about it.\"\n\nOn July 27, 2011, Marvel announced at the San Diego Comic Con the return of Cable. The new project, originally titled as \"Cable Reborn\", was re-titled as \"Avengers: X-Sanction\", written by Jeph Loeb and drawn by Ed McGuinness. The miniseries served as a lead-in to the \"Avengers vs. X-Men\" storyline beginning in April 2012.\n\nHaving been teleported to the future during his last act, Cable learned from his old mentor, Blaquesmith, that Hope will apparently die in some future accident caused by the Avengers, prompting him to go back in time and try to use his last 24 hours of life before the techno-organic virus completely consumes his body to stop the Avengers before they can kill Hope.\n\nAlthough he manages to defeat Captain America, Falcon, and Iron Man, he is caught off-guard when he is attacked by the Red Hulk, initially assuming that the Red Hulk is \"Talbot\", a foe from the future, before the Red Hulk informs him with grim satisfaction that he is actually someone who Cable has never fought before. With the aid of Blaquesmith – flashbacks revealing that they discovered various anti-mutant technologies in the Avengers Mansion – Cable manages to fight off the Red Hulk, partially infecting him with the techno-organic virus, only to be interrupted by Hope and Cyclops, who both denounce his actions as unnecessary, culminating in Wolverine and Spider-Man attacking him as they vow to take back the Avengers. During the fight with Wolverine, Spider-Man is taken out by Cyclops, and Blaquesmith convinces Hope to counter Cable's moves by freeing the Avengers, ripping out the bomb that Cable threatened would blow them up while Red Hulk burned the techno-organic virus out of his system.\n\nThe Avengers then proceeded to fight Cable until he was nearly dead from both the fight and the virus, and Cyclops asked to take his son home, with Captain America insisting the Avengers keep the weapons and ship. Back at Utopia, Blaquesmith helps Hope to realize that she can still save Cable, and she begins to absorb the techno-organic virus before fully manifesting the Phoenix Force raptor for the first time around herself. When it vanishes, Cable is cured not only of the advanced incursion of the virus, but apparently fully, as his left hand is shown to be fully organic along with his left eye, but he remains in a catatonic state. Afterwards, Cable and Cyclops speak telepathically, with Cable informing his father that Hope is indeed the Phoenix and is destined to save Earth from an unknown disaster. He goes on to say that a war will come with the Avengers and that he needs Cyclops to protect Hope. Cable promises to be there when he's needed in the future.\n\nCable's next appearance was in a new series, \"Cable and X-Force\" by writer Dennis Hopeless and artist Salvador Larroca. The series debuted in December 2012 and features Cable and a new fugitive team, unofficially referred to by the Marvel Universe media as the new \"X-Force\". This version of X-Force initially consists of Cable, Colossus, Doctor Nemesis, Domino, and Forge. This series focuses on eliminating disasters based on mysterious visions that Cable is receiving, resorting to occasionally more brutal methods than the prime X-teams would use. After the events of \"Avengers X-Sanction\" Cable is forced to wear an eye patch and an advanced harness for his non-functioning left arm that was created by Forge. Although Hope healed his arm, it is useless because it is not his original arm as it has been destroyed a few times, notably in his battles with Silver Surfer and Bastion.\n\nContinuing from \"Cable and X-Force\" Cable puts together a new X-Force team with Psylocke, Dr. Nemesis, Fantomex and Marrow in order to track down and deal with mutant threats using lethal force. The story is written by \"\" writer Simon Spurrier. Cable is infected with an extra-dimensional virus that provides super powers at the cost of killing them in around a year, however Cable is injected with an early version designed to kill him in a day. Cable's daughter Hope accidentally copies this virus, since it is based on super powers, and has to be placed into a coma in order to save her life. Cable cannot defeat the virus either, so he creates a new clone each day to replace himself but each clone still has only one day to live. Cable and X-Force eventually track down the man Volga who created the virus and defeat him. However, Fantomex goes insane from needing to \"be the best\" and betrays the team using new god-like powers derived from the Volga virus. Cable unleashes hundreds of his clones to fight him, with Hope eventually stopping Fantomex before the last clone is killed so Cable can live on. Hope then takes over as leader of X-Force and \"fires\" Cable for his morally questionable methods.\n\nAfter travelling through time and fixing several mistakes that a future Deadpool caused, Cable and present-Deadpool eventually fix the timeline. The effects on the timeline causes Cable to revert to his original \"status quo\", with his robotic arm and his original telekinesis and telepathic power set.\n\nCable is seen in the year 2087 dealing with some unidentified issue related to Stryfe, in the aftermath of an Inhuman attack that covers the city of Boston in sentient plant life. He eventually joins the rest of the Uncanny Avengers in the present and helps deal with the Inhuman causing the problems, before deciding to join the team when he learns the team's true mission is dealing with the Red Skull with Professor Xavier's brain and powers. After Captain America disbands the Uncanny Avengers in the aftermath of Civil War II and for Cable and Rogue teaming up with mutant villans Sebastion Shaw and Toad to find a cure for the Terrigen Mists, Rogue continues the team in their mission to stop the Red Skull.\n\nAfter the events of \"Secret Wars\" storyline, Cable stars in his third ongoing monthly series, as part of Marvel's 2017 \"X-Men: ResurrXion\" relaunch of its \"X-Men\" and \"Inhumans\"-related books. In this series, Cable is depicted as a member of an organization that protects the Marvel universe timeline from damage caused by time travel. The first arc of this series \"Conquest\", sees Cable tracking down a time-traveling villain. The second arc, \"The Newer Mutants\", has Cable assemble a team trying to determine who is murdering Externals. The third arc, \"Past Fears\" spans five eras of Cable's history and sees him battling a techno-organic villain known as Metus.\n\nWhen the young Iceman is attacked by an unknown assailant, Cable arrives to save him. However, Cable is attacked by the unknown assailant who tells him that he failed his duty to protect time, then shoots Cable, killing him. It is revealed that Cable's killer is a younger version of him (dubbed Kid Cable), who has arrived in the present to capture the five time-displaced X-Men. Kid Cable kidnaps Mimic then arrives at the X-Mansion and incapacitates young Angel and Beast but is only able to leave with the former. During Ahab's attack on the X-Mansion, Kid Cable returns and is able to capture young Beast. When he is confronted by the young Jean Grey and former members of X-Force (Domino, Warpath, and Boom-Boom), he clarifies that he is indeed the younger version of the Cable they knew and he killed and reveals that the reason he's been kidnapping the time-displaced X-Men is because he intends to return them all to the past, something that his older self never did, hence why he killed him. His reasoning for this is because Ahab will kill one of the young X-Men (Cable says that it's young Iceman he kills but clarifies that it doesn't matter which one dies, as long as it's one of the five) in the present, thus greatly changing huge parts of their future (battles they won are now lost, humans turn against Mutants much sooner, an earlier and stronger version of the Sentinel Program and Reaver Virus arise which in turn damns mutantkind and brings an earlier and deadlier end to the X-Men). As such, Kid Cable saw fit to kidnap them all so he can personally return them back to their past (even kidnapping Mimic so he would remove his wings and attach them to young Angel, since the latter didn't have cosmic fire wings in the past).\n\nCable was born with telepathic and telekinetic abilities. However, the extent to which he has been able to utilize these powers has varied dramatically throughout his appearances. Originally, both were limited by his need to restrain his techno-organic infection, and his powers were negligible compared to his more traditional fighting skills. However, following the subsidence of the infection, they gradually increased to the point where they were similar in magnitude to those of Nate Grey, to whom he is genetically identical. At their height, he demonstrated the ability to simultaneously levitate the floating city of Providence and combat the Silver Surfer. Following that story, his powers were burnt out and he replaced both with technological substitutes. He later states that both his telepathy and telekinesis have faded to nothing.\n\nCable has fought Wolverine to a stalemate, and defeated Captain America in hand-to-hand combat and defeated Falcon, Red Hulk and Iron Man using both brute force and wit, all while Cable was in severe pain and hours away from dying of his techno-organic infection.\n\nWhen Professor Xavier's son Legion travels back in time to kill Magneto in the \"Legion Quest\" storyline, Beast notes that Cable possesses \"latent time-travel abilities\". With the assistance of Shi'ar technology, Professor Xavier \"jump-starts\" this ability while Jean Grey telekinetically holds Cable's body together, allowing Cable to send his consciousness into the past.\n\nIn the \"Messiah War\" storyline, during the fight with his clone, Stryfe, Cable demonstrates the ability to hide others from Stryfe's mental view, implying that at least he retains some of his telepathic powers. He also still possesses some of his telekinesis, but he is using it solely to keep the techno-organic virus in his body at bay.\n\nHis techno-organic body parts possess enhanced strength and durability, and his techno-organic left eye gives him enhanced eyesight, allowing him to see farther than a normal human and in the infrared spectrum. He is also able to interface his techno-organic body parts with other types of machinery, an ability that allows him to hack into computers, open electronic locks, and travel through time.\n\nAs of the end of the \"Avengers: X-Sanction\" storyline, Hope Summer has apparently cured Cable of the techno-organic virus using the Phoenix Force, and appears to at least have his telepathy. As a result, his cybernetic eye and arm have been restored to flesh and blood, although almost nonfunctional and atrophied, forcing Cable to wear an eyepatch (hiding a psimitar like implant) and use an enhanced brace, made by Forge and laden with special weaponry. Due to a future Hope's tampering with his mind, he also gained the ability to see multiple possible future events before they unfolded.\n\nIn \"Deadpool & Cable: Split Second\", Cable once again loses most of his powers, but retains his precognition. However, he regains them along with his cybernetics as a result of Deadpool repairing Cable's personal timeline.\n\nCable makes use of a spear-like weapon called the Psi-Mitar, which was originally a long staff with a spear point on one end and a scythe blade on the other, used primarily by the Askani. It functions as a focus and amplifier for telepathic or telekinetic power, which it can project as powered blasts.\n\nApart from his superhuman abilities, Cable has been said to have a brilliant mind for military tactics.\n\nIn addition to his mainstream Marvel Universe incarnation, Cable has been depicted in other fictional universes.\n\nIn the \"Cable and Deadpool\" series storyline \"Enema of State\", Deadpool and the mutants Cannonball and Siryn discover several alternate versions of Cable as they traverse several alternate universes via \"Bodyslide\", searching for Cable after he disappears. They remain in each separate universe for only a brief time, while Deadpool searches for Cable from \"his\" timeline/universe. They first encounter an evil incarnation of Cable who has become one of the four Horsemen of Apocalypse, War. Other versions include a guru-type Cable known as \"Brother Nathan\", on whose alternate earth all violence had been abolished, a Phalanx-Cable, consumed by the techno-organic virus within his body, and the Cable of the \"House of M\" reality, an infant in the care of a subdued Mister Sinister on a quiet Nebraska farm, which Deadpool eventually realizes was \"his\" Cable. Deadpool seized the infant, took him back to his home universe, and cared for Nathan, who grew rapidly after having been injected with Deadpool's DNA.\n\nCable appears in \"Marvel Zombies 2\". Cable is uninfected, forced to work for the Acolytes in order for him to forever end the zombie virus. With the help of Forge, he constructs new artificial limbs for the Black Panther, after the zombie Henry Pym consumes the original ones.\n\nIn the setting of the \"Earth X\" storyline, the Techno-organic virus has overtaken Cable's body, who has become a blob of organic metal.\n\nIn the \"Deadpool Pulp\" timeline, Cable is now General Cable, who, along with Stryfe (also a General) and J. Edgar Hoover, hires former CIA man Wade Wilson to get back a stolen nuclear briefcase.\n\nIn the fantasy world depicted in the graphic novel \"Wolverine: Rahne of Terra\", Cable's counterpart is a wizard called the Mage, who carried the Warlock Staff and a crossbow.\n\nIn \"Ultimate X-Men\", Cable is a future version of Wolverine who goes back to the past to capture Professor Xavier, returning with him to the future in order to train him for the coming battle with Apocalypse. After Apocalypse's death, Cable fades out of existence.\n\nA two-part storyline in \"What If...\" asks, \"What If Cable Destroyed the X-Men?\" In this story, Cable clashes with Professor X and the X-Men over their beliefs and differences in methods. Ultimately, Cable leads a faction of mutants loyal to him and assassinates the Professor, Cyclops, and Jean Grey before embarking on a violent crusade. Cable is ultimately killed by Wolverine, but his actions have already led to the further oppression of mutants. Magneto attempts to take control of America in the chaos, but is killed by a new model of plastic Sentinels, who decide that enslaving humanity is the best way to root out mutants. However, Wolverine assembles several surviving mutants to fight against the Sentinels as a new team of X-Men.\n\n\"X-Men Forever\" is an alternate universe written by Chris Claremont that takes place after the events of \"X-Men\" vol. 2, #3. In it, it is revealed that X-Factor's confrontation with Apocalypse ended differently—Nathan was saved, but aged somehow from a toddler into a child. Nathan lives with his great-grandmother and grandfather in Alaska. An attack by mysterious agents causes Nathan to be moved to the protective custody of the Starjammers. He is shown to possess telepathic powers. Cable appears in one panel of the series but no connection between Cable and Nathan is made.\n\nThis version of Cable was consumed by the Poisons and joined them into invading Earth 616. He's seen along with other Poison infected X-Force members attacking the X Mansion. In the end he and the other Poisons crumbled with the death of the Poison Queen. \n\nCable made eight appearances in \"X-Men: The Animated Series\" in the episodes \"Slave Island\", \"The Cure\", \"Time Fugitives, Parts 1-2\" and \"Beyond Good and Evil, Parts 1-4\" voiced by Lawrence Bayne in the English version and by Tesshō Genda in the Japanese dub. This version of Cable possessed his trademark metal arm but it is said to be a bionic construct rather than a result of the techno-organic virus. He is never shown to be telepathic, though he does use telekinesis in one episode. He is also depicted as coming from the year 3999, where he leads an army in a desperate war against the forces of the immortal villain Apocalypse. Cyclops' future paternity to Cable is implied in the second part of the episode \"Time Fugitives\" after Jean Gray telepathically read Cable's mind. Cable and Cyclops also do not get along during missions.\n\nJosh Brolin was cast in a four-picture deal with 20th Century Fox to play Nathan Summers / Cable in the \"X-Men\" film universe, with \"Deadpool 2\" as his first appearance. In May 2017, producer Hutch Parker discussed the future of the franchise, stating that the introduction of Cable with his time-traveling abilities makes an interconnection between the upcoming \"New Mutants\", \"Deadpool 2\", and \"Dark Phoenix\", as well as previous films a possibility. In his first appearance, Cable is depicted as a mysterious time traveling soldier from a devastated future with a cybernetic left arm and eye.\n\nIn \"Deadpool 2\", Cable goes back in time to assassinate the young mutant Russell Collins, as in the future Collins becomes a criminal and murders his wife and daughter, who is later identified as Hope. Deadpool forms the X-Force team to stop him, but both sides are at an impasse when Russell teams up with Juggernaut. Cable decides to team up with X-Force to take down the two threats, but allows Wade the chance to redeem Russell before the kid becomes a murderer. Wade sacrifices himself when Cable tries to shoot Russell, causing Russell to reject his future as a villain which saves Cable's family. In return, Cable uses his last charge on his time-traveling device to travel to the past to prevent himself from killing Wade while still allowing Russell to have his change of heart at the cost of Cable losing the chance to return home to his family, Cable concluding that he will remain in the present to create a better future for his family.\n\n\nArtist Alex Ross drew upon his dislike of Liefeld's design of Cable when Ross designed the character Magog for the 1996 miniseries \"Kingdom Come\". Following writer Mark Waid's instructions that the character's appearance be based on aspects of superhero design trends of the time that they disliked, Ross said of Cable, \"That's a character that Mark Waid invented that was really just put to me like come up with the most God awful, Rob Liefeld sort of design that you can. What I was stealing from was – really only two key designs of Rob's – the design of Cable. I hated it. I felt like it looked like they just threw up everything on the character – the scars, the thing going on with his eye, the arm, and what's with all the guns? But the thing is, when I put those elements together with the helmet of Shatterstar – I think that was his name – well, the ram horns and the gold, suddenly it held together as one of the designs that I felt happiest with in the entire series.\"\n\nThe stories have been collected in a number of trade paperbacks.\n\n"}
{"id": "4756064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4756064", "title": "Chad Dawson", "text": "Chad Dawson\n\nChad Dawson (born July 13, 1982) is an American professional boxer. He has held multiple world championships at light heavyweight, and was one of the most highly regarded boxers in that division from 2006 to 2013. Dawson rose to prominence on the world stage in 2007, when he defeated Tomasz Adamek to win the WBC title. After vacating that title, he defeated Antonio Tarver in 2008 to win the IBF and IBO titles. Dawson's first career loss was to Jean Pascal in 2010, after which he would win the WBC title for a second time, as well as the \"Ring\" magazine and lineal titles, by defeating Bernard Hopkins in 2012. In the same year, \"The Ring\" ranked Dawson as the world's tenth best active boxer, pound for pound.\n\nLater in 2012, Dawson moved down to super middleweight, a division where he had not competed since 2006, in order to challenge Andre Ward for the unified WBA (Super), WBC, \"The Ring\", and lineal titles. In what would prove to be an ill-fated move, Ward handed him his second loss as it became clear that Dawson could no longer compete at a lower weight. In 2013, having returned to light heavyweight to defend his titles, Dawson was knocked out by Adonis Stevenson in one round.\n\nDawson was born to Rick Dawson, a former boxer who compiled a 2–6–1 professional record, and Wanda Dawson. Chad has four brothers and two sisters. In search of work, Rick moved the family to New Haven, Connecticut in 1988. Chad attended James Hillhouse High School from 1996 to 2000.\n\nDawson, a southpaw, made his professional debut at middleweight, later moving up to super middleweight where defeated notable opponents such as Ian Gardner and Carl Daniels. His career took a temporary setback when he failed a post-fight drug test in 2004 for marijuana, which resulted in a six-month suspension from boxing. Dawson indicated that this proved to be a motivating factor in his rise as a light heavyweight. Because of this, Dawson's streak of fourteen consecutive wins came to end when his win over Aundalen Sloan on March 27, 2004 was changed to a no contest.\n\nOn June 2, 2006, in his bout with former title challenger and fellow southpaw Eric Harding, Dawson won a unanimous decision and claimed the regional NABF light heavyweight title. After suffering a flash knockdown in the opening seconds of the first round, Dawson dominated the fight and pulled away on the judges' scorecards by 117-110, 117-110, and 116-111.\n\nAt age 24, on February 3, 2007, Dawson won the WBC light heavyweight title against the undefeated, top-ten ranked champion Tomasz Adamek. The judges gave Dawson a unanimous decision victory, with scores of 118-108, 117-109, and 116-110. In June 2007, Dawson defended the WBC title for the first time, in a fight with Jesus Ruiz (19-5-0), winning by technical knockout in round six. The fight was broadcast on Showtime as part of a card that featured former light heavyweight champion Antonio Tarver. On September 29, 2007, Dawson defeated Epifanio Mendoza by fourth-round TKO in his second title defense. In April 2008 as his third title defense, Dawson retained the belt by a controversial unanimous decision victory against challenger Glen Johnson. The three judges each had the fight scored 116-112 in favor of the champion Dawson. Again aired on Showtime, for Dawson the card marked the second occasion for which he and Tarver fought in separate bouts on the same card, with Tarver winning each featured bout.\n\nDawson then vacated the WBC title in mid-2008.\n\nDawson, who is married and has three sons, still lives and trains in New Haven, Connecticut. His trainer is \"Iceman\" John Scully. He was formerly trained by Dan Birmingham, Floyd Mayweather, Sr. and Eddie Mustafa Muhammad.\n\nOn October 11, 2008, at the Palms Casino in Las Vegas, Dawson fought IBF light heavyweight title holder Antonio Tarver. Dawson, who controlled the pace and landed most of the significant punches for a majority of the fight, was more active in methodically wearing out his opponent. Tarver landed the occasional punch, but Dawson was in control for most of the fight. With 2:11 left in the final round, Dawson scored a knockdown against Tarver, the only knockdown in the fight. Dawson won the fight by unanimous decision with scores of 117–110 from two judges and 118–109 from the third judge.\n\nOn November 9, the day after Joe Calzaghe's win over Roy Jones, Jr., Dawson issued a press release challenging Calzaghe and offered to fight him on his home turf in Wales. Dawson stated \"I'm ready to give Joe the opportunity to draw the curtain on his great career in front of his family and friends and 70,000 fans,\" and \"It's the best fight in the light heavyweight division between two undefeated champions.\" Calzaghe was to retire weeks later, as had been expected prior to the Jones Jr bout. Dawson himself was complimentary about the departing Welsh champion, stating \"I applaud Joe's decision. It's obvious he and his family gave it a lot of thought. Timing is everything, and to leave center stage at his peak is rare and certainly comparable to the retirements of Rocky Marciano and Jim Brown.\"\n\nSeven months after their first fight, Dawson and Tarver fought a rematch on May 9, 2009 in Las Vegas. The fight was similar to their first, with Dawson in control most of the fight, outworking Tarver much of the fight, and earning another unanimous decision win. The judges scorecards were 117-111, 117-111 and 116-112, all in favor of Dawson.\n\nOn May 27, 2009, Dawson vacated the IBF light heavyweight title to negotiate a rematch with Glen Johnson. On November 7, 2009 Dawson once again outpointed Glen Johnson. This time was more convincing but the judges scored it 117-111, 115-113 and 115-113 all for Dawson.\n\nThe next step in Dawson's career was a shot to regain the WBC title against Top 10 light heavyweight Jean Pascal on August 14, 2010 in Montreal and was for \"The Ring\" light heavyweight title.\nPascal won the fight by technical decision in round 11 after an accidental head butt. All three judges had Pascal winning by a considerably wide margin at the time of the stoppage.\n\nDawson returned to action on May 21, 2011 against Adrian Diaconu and defeated Diaconu by unanimous decision. His first bout under the guidance of Emanuel Steward.\n\nDawson initially won \"The Ring\", WBC and lineal light heavyweight titles due to a controversial TKO win, when Hopkins was unable to continue after getting thrown from a clinch. However, on October 20, 2011, the TKO ruling was ruled a Technical Draw by the WBC and Hopkins remained the champion. On December 13, 2011, the California State Athletic Commission changed the official decision to a No Contest (NC). Two days later, the WBC ordered a rematch between Hopkins and Dawson.\n\nDawson and Bernard Hopkins met again on April 28, 2012 at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City. The fight was slow-paced, with Dawson controlling most of the action and pace of the fight. Hopkins would throw and land an occasional punch, but Dawson would land the harder and more effective punches and outwork Hopkins for much of the fight. Noteworthy to mention is a period after a middle round where his trainer, former contender Iceman John Scully, caught Dawson mentally slipping and motivated him back into focus. The key moment in the fight was noted during the broadcast by HBO's Emanuel Steward and Jim Lampley. Dawson went on to win the fight by majority decision, with the judges scorecards reading 114-114, 117-111 and 117-111.\n\nCompubox had Dawson outlanding Hopkins throughout the fight. Dawson landed 151 of 431 (35%) of his total punches, to Hopkins' landing 106 of 400 (26%) of his. Dawson said after the fight he's very interested in fighting WBC super middleweight champion Andre Ward, as well as fighting in a rematch with Jean Pascal.\n\nOn September 8, 2012, Dawson stepped down a weight division (a rarity in the sport) to take on WBA, WBC, \"The Ring\" and lineal super middleweight champion, Super Six World Boxing Classic winner and one of the universally recognized top pound-for-pound fighters in the world Andre Ward.\n\nReports surfaced that Dawson was knocked out by Edison Miranda in sparring for the Ward fight. The fight started quite cagey with both fighters feeling each other out and only exchanging single shots, with Dawson landing his jab on Ward comfortably. In the 3rd round, a clash of heads changed the entire landscape of the fight in Ward's favour, as he seemed to have found out his opponent and proceeded to catch Dawson with some telling shots, dropping him to one knee with a right to the body and short overhand left hook. Dawson quickly rose to an 8-count and appeared to be dazed but managed to see out the round and return to his corner. In round 4, Ward showed no sign of letting up, upping the tempo and again catching a sluggish Dawson with a close left hook, again causing him to drop to his knee and the ref gave Dawson another 8 count. Dawson showed great resilience to see out the round and went on for the next 4 rounds avoiding Wards' troublesome left hooks with little activity himself. In round 10, it all came to an end as Dawson looked to have tired from Wards' consistent battery and possibly because of the weight loss also, he was caught flush with 4 shots in a row appearing to voluntarily take a knee. The referee stepped in asking Dawson if he wanted the fight stopped, Dawson did not speak but had the body language of a defeated man. The fight was called off and Ward retained his titles.\n\nOn June 8, 2013, after his loss to Ward, Dawson returned to light heavyweight and defended his WBC, lineal, and \"The Ring\" titles against Haitian-Canadian Adonis Stevenson, a super middleweight contender who was fighting his first match at light heavyweight. The fight took place in Montreal, Stevenson's adopted hometown and where Dawson was fighting for the third time in the past two years.\n\nAlthough Dawson entered the fight as a favorite, many were worried that draining himself to fight Ward, and the Ward fight itself had taken something from Dawson. Early in the fight he was caught with a hard left hook and fell backwards to the canvas. Although he got up from the punch and rose before the count of eight, the referee noticed that Dawson's legs were unsteady and stopped the fight at 1:11 of the first round despite the protests of Dawson and his trainer Eddie Mustafa Muhammad. It was the first time in Dawson's career that he had been knocked out in the first round.\n\nAfter taking the rest of 2013 off Dawson accepted a fight with journeyman George Blades, which was televised as part of the preliminary bout undercard of a Showtime event on June 14, 2014. The fight was fought in the cruiserweight division, at a catchweight of 179 pounds. Dawson failed to make weight for the contest, weighing in at 182.8 pounds, and thus had to forfeit one-fifth of his $15,000 purse.\n\nDawson knocked Blades out in the first round after dropping him twice. After the fight he said he wanted to start competing for a world title again and would be fighting at light heavyweight.\n\nHowever Dawson's career took another hit when on October 4, 2014, he lost a split decision to Tommy Karpency. Dawson looked listless in the fight, displaying little of his once vaunted athleticism. After the fight Dawson maintained that he injured his left hand in the third round, stating that it prevented him from throwing combinations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9441268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9441268", "title": "Computational magnetohydrodynamics", "text": "Computational magnetohydrodynamics\n\nComputational magnetohydrodynamics (CMHD) is a rapidly developing branch of magnetohydrodynamics that uses numerical methods and algorithms to solve and analyze problems that involve electrically conducting fluids. Most of the methods used in CMHD are borrowed from the well established techniques employed in Computational fluid dynamics. The complexity mainly arises due to the presence of a magnetic field and its coupling with the fluid. One of the important issues is to numerically maintain the formula_1 (conservation of magnetic flux) condition, from Maxwell's equations, to avoid any unphysical effects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4426770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426770", "title": "Cybernary", "text": "Cybernary\n\nCybernary is a comic book series created by comic book artist Nick Manabat with writer Steve Gerber and published by American company Wildstorm Productions in 1995. It tells the story of a cybernetic anti-heroine, \"Katrina Cupertino\", who carries the consciousness of Yamiko Gamorra.\n\n\"Cybernary\" began as a backup story to Jim Lee's run on \"Deathblow\", but Manabat's work on the series was cut short with his untimely demise due to a longtime illness. Gerber continued the storyline through a 1995 mini-series with art by Jeff Rebner and Richard Friend. On this post-Manabat series, Gerber remarked, \"The artist, unfortunately, had no feel for the kind of cyber-civilization we were trying to portray. I admit, I lost interest a couple of issues into the series.\" \n\nA second Cybernary, based on Yamiko Gamorra, herself, was created in a short story written by Tommy Yune for the \"Wildstorm Thunderbook\" that overlapped with some of the events of \"The Authority\". The story was continued by Joe Harris for a six-part \"Cybernary 2.0\" limited series that started in 2001.\n\nKatrina's story takes place in the Wildstorm Universe on the fictional post-apocalyptic island of Gamorra. She is a member of the American colony. Her parents die in a suspicious accident and Katrina opts for a life on the street. With her 'street smarts' and low-level telepathy, she prospered in the criminal circles. She teams up with a male partner named Cisco. During one mission, there were mistakes and Vandalla, one of Gamorra's main scientists, ends up with custody of Cisco. Her rescue attempt seemingly works, but Cisco is not truly freed and Katrina herself is vastly altered. While her outside looks like a very carefully made nympho-droid, her insides are built for killing. Not only that, her mind also contains the consciousness of Kaizen Gamorra's lost daughter Yamiko. Intended as a present for Kaizen himself, she instead escapes and helps overthrow him.\n\nCybernary spends some time dimension-hopping with Savant's unofficial super-hero team called Savant Garde. There she fought side by side with Savant herself, Mr. Majestic, the cat-girl Sheba, and many other heroes, some of whom resembled Cybernary herself. Cicsco becomes part of the team, but he is now the large cyborg known as Met-L. Also joining the team is the murderous mercenary Innuendo, who helps out the heroes despite his own dark nature.\n\nAfter the World's End event, the Yamiko-Cybernary is able to make her way to the now floating island of Gamorra, trying to enact vengeance over her long lost father. However Kaizen Gamorra convinces her to join forces, taking her place at his side as the heiress of the ruined world that Gamorra intends to rule. As her first mission, Cybernary is sent to capture the last free stronghold on Earth, the ruins of the former Carrier. After having subdued Hawksmoore and taken him to Gamorra to be tortured by her father, her prisoner eventually escaped into the city itself since being in the last urban environment on earth had healed and strengthened him. Just before they could commence battle after having intercepted him as he rampaged through Gamorra city, he quickly disappears from view only to be accosted by Engineer later who removes all of her cybernetics and possibly along with the secondary persona of Yamiko Gamorra leaving her as Katrina Cupertino again.\n\nSome time after an invasion by the Knights of Khera, Katrina somehow regained her cyborg additions, as noted by the antlers and outfit she sported as Cybernary. She served under Zannah as squad commander and combat instructor to the former's Coda somewhere deep within Zanzibar. She was on guard duty while a skulking Midnighter was prowling in the background. Although she took notice of him while training new coda recruits, she chose to continue the seminar instead of reporting him. She eventually called him out after finding the heart of their operation, stating Zealot wanted to see him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5896051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5896051", "title": "Digital Life", "text": "Digital Life\n\nDigital Life is a research and educational program about radically rethinking of the human-computer interactive experience. It integrates digital world (information & services) and physical world (physical objects/environment). It makes interfaces more responsive and proactive (objects & environments monitor user and (proactively) present information & services relevant to user’s current needs/interests)\n\nThe program is to use information technology to augment physical environments and objects around the people that can draw attention. When one is walking around town, for example, the system points out buildings/places of particular interest to a user. The program is also to augment reality in order to provide a composite view for the participants: a mix of a real scene with the virtual scene that augments the digital environment with interactive information.\n\nThe Program was originally initiated by MIT Media Lab as: Digital Life is a multi-sponsor, Lab-wide research consortium that conducts basic research on technologies and techniques that spur expression as well as social and economic activity. They first explore the design and scalability of agile, grassroots communications systems that incorporate a growing understanding of emergent social behaviors in a digital world; the second considers a cognitive architecture that can support many features of “human intelligent thinking” and its expressive and economic use; and the third extends the idea of inclusive design to immersive, affective, and biological interfaces and actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "53644736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53644736", "title": "Distributional–relational database", "text": "Distributional–relational database\n\nA distributional–relational database, or word-vector database, is a database management system (DBMS) that uses distributional word-vector representations to enrich the semantics of structured data. As distributional word-vectors can be automatically built automatically from large-scale corpora, this enrichment supports the construction of databases which can embed large-scale commonsense background knowledge into their operations. Distributional-Relational models can be applied to the construction of schema-agnostic databases (databases in which users can query the data without being aware of its schema), semantic search, schema-integration and inductive and abductive reasoners as well as different applications in which a semantically flexible knowledge representation model is needed. The main advantage of distributional–relational models over purely logical / Semantic Web models is the fact that the core semantic associations can be automatically captured from corpora in contrast to the definition of manually curated ontologies and rule knowledge bases.\n\nDistributional–relational models were first formalized as a mechanism to cope with the vocabulary/semantic gap between users and the schema behind the data. In this scenario, distributional semantic relatedness measures, combined with semantic pivoting heuristics can support the approximation between user queries (expressed in their own vocabulary) and data (expressed in the vocabulary of the dataset designer).\n\nIn this model, the database symbols (entities and relations) are embedded into a distributional semantic space and have a geometric interpretation under a latent or explicit semantic space. The geometric aspect supports the semantic approximation between entities from different databases or between a query term and a database entity. The distributional relational model then becomes a double layered model where the semantics of the structured data provides the fine-grained semantics intended by the database designer, which is extended by the distributional semantic model which contains the semantic associations expressed at a broader use. \nThese models support the generalization from a closed communication scenario (in which database designers and users live in the same context, e.g. the same organization) to an open communication scenario (e.g. different organizations, the Web), creating an abstraction layer between users and the specific representation of the conceptual model.\n"}
{"id": "17241429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17241429", "title": "Eduardo Cáceres", "text": "Eduardo Cáceres\n\nEduardo Rafael Cáceres Lehnhoff served as Vice President of Guatemala from 1 July 1970 to 1 July 1974 in the cabinet of Carlos Arana.\n\nDied 31 January 1980 in the Burning of the Spanish Embassy in Guatemala-City.\n\nhttp://www.aquiguatemala.net/presidentes/manuel_a_osorio.html\n"}
{"id": "907872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=907872", "title": "El Santo", "text": "El Santo\n\nRodolfo Guzmán Huerta (September 23, 1917 – February 5, 1984), more widely known as El Santo, or in English The Saint, was a Mexican Luchador enmascarado (Spanish for masked professional wrestler), film actor, and folk hero.\nEl Santo, along with Blue Demon and Mil Máscaras, is one of the most famous and iconic of all Mexican luchadores, and has been referred to as one of \"the greatest legends in Mexican sports.\" His wrestling career spanned nearly five decades, during which he became a folk hero and a symbol of justice for the common man through his appearances in comic books and movies.\n\nDuring his career, he mainly wrestled for Empresa Mundial de Lucha Libre in Mexico where he won the Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship, Mexican National Middleweight Championship, Mexican National Tag Team Championship with Rayo de Jalisco, Mexican National Welterweight Championship, NWA World Middleweight Championship and the NWA World Welterweight Championship. He is said to have popularized professional wrestling in Mexico just as Rikidōzan did in Japan or like Hulk Hogan did in the US. Guzmán's son followed him into wrestling as El Hijo del Santo, or 'Son of the Saint'. In 2018, WWE inducted him into their Hall of Fame in the Legacy category.\n\nBorn in Tulancingo in the Mexican state of Hidalgo, to Jesús Guzmán Campuzano and Josefina Huerta (Márquez) de Guzmán as the fifth of seven children, Rodolfo came to Mexico City in the 1920s, where his family settled in the Tepito neighbourhood. He practiced baseball and American football, and then became interested in wrestling. He first learned Ju-Jitsu, then classical wrestling. Rodolfo has a brother who entered the wrestling business as well, Miguel, who is known as Black Guzmán (due to his dark skin).\n\nAccounts vary as to exactly when and where he first wrestled competitively, either in Arena Peralvillo Cozumel on 28 June 1934, or Deportivo Islas in the Guerrero colony of Mexico City in 1935, but by the second half of the 1930s, he was established as a wrestler, using the names \"Rudy Guzmán\", \"El Hombre Rojo\" (\"the Red Man\"), \"El Demonio Negro\" (The Black Demon) and \"El Murcielago II\" (\"The Bat II\"). The last name was the same as that of wrestler Jesus Velazquez, named \"El Murcielago\" (The Bat), and after an appeal by the Bat to the Mexican boxing and wrestling commission, the regulatory body ruled that Guzmán could not use the name.\n\nIn the early 1940s, Guzmán married María de los Ángeles Rodríguez Montaño (Maruca), a union that would produce 10 children; including his youngest child Jorge, who also became a famous wrestler in his own right, \"El Hijo del Santo\" ('Son of the Saint'). In 1942, Rodolfo's manager, Don Jesús Lomelí, was putting together a new team of wrestlers, all dressed in silver, and wanted Rodolfo to be a part of it. He suggested three names, \"El Santo\" (\"The Saint\"), \"El Diablo\" (\"The Devil\"), or \"El Angel\" (\"The Angel\"), and Rodolfo chose the first one. On 26 June, aged 24, he wrestled at the Arena Mexico for the first time as El Santo, although he later was known simply as \"Santo\". Under this new name he quickly found his style.\n\nOne of Santo's greatest matches was in 1952, when he fought a tag-team known as Los Hermanos Shadow (which consisted of famed luchadors Blue Demon and the Black Shadow). Santo beat and unmasked Black Shadow in the ring, which triggered Blue Demon's decision to become a técnico, as well as a legendary feud between Blue Demon and Santo that culminated in Santo's defeat in a well-publicized series of matches in 1952 and again in 1953. Although they appeared together in a number of action/adventure films, their rivalry never really ended in later years since Santo always remembered his defeat at Blue Demon's hands.\n\nEl Santo was known to never remove his mask, even in private company. When traveling on flights, he made sure to take a different flight from his crew to avoid having them see his face when he was required to remove his mask to get through customs.\n\nBy the early 1980s El Santo slowed down his in ring activities leading up to his inevitable retirement. His farewell tour was announced for August and September 1982. The first of three events took place on August 22, 1982 at the Palacio de los Deportes in Mexico City. On that night El Santo teamed up with El Solitario to take on Villano III and Rokambole in a match that naturally saw the legends win. After the match Villano and Rokambole lifted El Santo up on their shoulders as he received the adulation of the sold out arena. The following Sunday El Santo appeared at Arena México where he teamed up with Gran Hamada to defeat Villano I and Scorpio Jr. Santo's last match took place on September 12, 1982, a week before his 65th birthday. In his last match ever El Santo teamed up with Gory Guerrero who came out of retirement to reform \"La Pareja Atómica\" as they teamed up with Huracán Ramirez and El Solitario. Their opponents included one of El Santo's biggest rivals in Perro Aguayo as well as El Signo, Negro Navarro and El Texano. True to the legend of El Santo he won his last match and retired as the hero he always portrayed in the ring and on the screen. His retirement tour was also used to introduce Santo's son Jorge as the next generation El Santo as he was ringside at each show wearing the silver mask and being introduced as El Hijo del Santo.\n\nSanto's youngest son with his first wife, Jorge carries on the legend of the Silver Mask, wrestling as El Hijo del Santo wearing the silver mask, cape and outfit that is very close to what his father used to wear. While El Hijo del Santo is not as big an icon as his father, he is considered a more technically proficient wrestler.\n\nIn the early 1960s a female wrestler called \"La Novia del Santo\" (Spanish for \"the Bride of El Santo\") worked the Mexican circuit. Under the silver mask was Irma González, a well-known wrestler who had promised her fiancé that she would stop wrestling, but went back in the ring under a mask when she could not resist the draw of competition. La Novia got El Santo's blessing to use the name and is the only non-family member ever given the right to use the Santo name. Gonzáles only wrestled as \"La Novia del Santo\" for 7 months until she got married. Later on, a homosexual wrestler adopted the \"La Novia del Santo\" name but El Santo took action and put an end to the impostor's use of the name.\n\nRecently one of El Santo's 25 grandchildren made his professional debut. After gaining some seasoning under different identities, he began working as \"El Nieto del Santo\" (Spanish for \"the Grandson of Santo\"). El Hijo del Santo took legal actions to prevent this as he owns all \"El Santo\" rights when it comes to wrestling, presumably because he himself is planning on letting one of his own sons use the \"El Nieto del Santo\" name. These days, the grandson of El Santo works as \"Axxel\" and only uses \"El Nieto del Santo\" as an unofficial nickname to avoid any legal issues. Axxel uses the same trademark mask, cape and trunk design as El Santo but has incorporated black trim and knee pads, presumably not to infringe on the legal rights of El Hijo del Santo. In August 2012, a court ruled in favor of Axxel, allowing him to again begin working as El Nieto del Santo. In July 2016, another one of El Santo's grandchildren and the son of El Hijo del Santo began working under the name \"El Santo Jr.\"\n\nOn September 23, 2016 to honor the 99th birthday of El Santo, Google Doodle ran a special El Santo Google doodle for that day.\n\nIn 1952, the artist and editor José G. Cruz started a Santo comic book, turning Santo into the first and foremost character in Mexican popular literature, his popularity only rivalled by the legendary Kalimán character. The Santo comic book series (four different volumes) ran continuously for 35 years, ending in 1987.\n\nAlso in 1952, a superhero motion picture serial was made entitled \"The Man in the Silver Mask\", which was supposed to star Santo, but he declined to appear in it, because he thought it would fail commercially. The film was made instead with well-known luchador El Médico Asesino in the lead role, wearing a white mask similar to Santo's silver one. A villain named \"The Silver-Masked Man\" was introduced into the plot at the last minute, thus the title of the film strangely became a reference to the villain, not the hero.\n\nIn 1958, Fernando Osés, a wrestler and actor, invited Santo to work in movies, and although Santo was unwilling to give up his wrestling career, he accepted, planning to do both at the same time. Oses was planning on playing the hero (a masked cop named \"El Incognito\") in these two films, with Santo appearing as his costumed sidekick, \"El Enmascarado\". Fernando Osés and Enrique Zambrano wrote the scripts for the first two movies, \"el Cerebro del Mal\" (\"The Evil Brain\") and \"Hombres Infernales\" (\"The Infernal Men\"), both released in 1958, and directed by Joselito Rodríguez. Filming was done in Cuba, and ended just the day before Fidel Castro entered Havana and declared the victory of the revolution. Santo played a masked superhero-type sidekick to the main hero (who was called El Incognito) in these two films, and was not the main character (nor was he depicted as a wrestler in these 2 films, but rather a masked police agent of some sort). The films did poorly at the box office when they were released. Years later however, when Santo's film career took off, the distributors of these two films quietly added Santo's name into the titles. Most people feel Santo's film career really took off in 1961, with his third movie \"Santo vs The Zombies.\" Santo was given the starring role with this film, and was shown for the first time as a professional wrestler moonlighting as a superhero.\n\nSanto eventually wound up appearing in 52 lucha libre films in all (two of which were just cameo appearances). The style of the movies was essentially the same throughout the series, with Santo as a superhero fighting supernatural creatures, evil scientists, various criminals/ secret agents and so on. The tones were reminiscent of U.S. B-movies and TV shows, perhaps most similar to the old Republic Pictures serials of the 1940s.\n\nHis best-known movie outside of Mexico is also considered one of his best, 1962's \"Santo vs. las Mujeres Vampiro\" (\"Santo vs. the Vampire Women\"), which was also featured in an episode of Mystery Science Theater 3000. In this movie, the production values were better, and there was an attempt at creating more of a mythos and background for Santo, as the last of a long line of superheroes. It was an enormous success at the box office. Only four of the 52 Santo films were ever dubbed into English, the other 48 being only available in Spanish. The English-dubbed Mexican films of that time period were imported to the United States through the efforts of K. Gordon Murray who changed the name of Santo to \"Samson\" for some of his releases. Most of Murray's imported Mexi-films went directly to late-night American TV. Santo's most financially successful film was \"The Mummies of Guanajuato\" (1970), which co-starred Blue Demon and Mil Mascaras. Many Mexi-movie fans consider it to be the greatest luchador film ever made.\n\nThe Santo film series inspired the production of similar series of movies starring other well-known luchadores such as Blue Demon, Mil Mascaras, Superzan and the Wrestling Women, among others. Santo even co-starred with Blue Demon and Mil Mascaras in several of his movies. When Blue Demon invited Santo to co-star with him and Mil Mascaras in the \"Champions of Justice\" movie trilogy, however, Santo was too busy making other films to participate.\n\nBy 1977, the masked wrestler film craze had practically died off, but Santo continued to appear in more films over the next few years. His last film was \"Fury of the Karate Experts\", shot in Florida in 1982, the same year he retired from the ring.\n\nSeventeen years after Santo's death, his real-life son (known in Mexico as \"El Hijo del Santo\") played the lead role in a brand new Santo movie called \"Infraterrestre\" (2001), which co-starred the famed Mexican wrestler The Blue Panther.\n\nSanto also became an animated mini-series on Cartoon Network in Latin America, and was called \"Santo Contra Los Clones\". On October 27, 2004, Cartoon Network released an only season of 5 short episodes. Each episode is about 2 minutes long, and they were shown weekly on Wednesday nights at 8:00 PM. There is also currently another Santo series in development at Cartoon Network Studios in Burbank. \n\nEl Santo also inspired the Flash animated series \"¡Mucha Lucha!\" and \"\". In \"¡Mucha Lucha!\" he's called \"El Rey\", and is represented as an icon of all positive things. \n\nSanto is immortalized in the rockabilly band Southern Culture on the Skids' 1996 album Santo Swings!/Viva el Santo. Santo is often resurrected in Southern Culture's live performances when an audience member jumps onstage donning Santo's mask. The Latin ska band King Changó released an album titled The Return of El Santo. \n\nTurkish actor Yavuz Selekman portrayed an unlicensed version of Santo in the infamous bootleg Turkish film \"3 Dev Adam\". This movie is also known in the United States as \"Captain America and Santo Vs. Spider Man.\" \n\nHe also is referred to by Mexican rock band Botellita de Jerez in their song Santo, in which they speak of Santo's victories in the ring and in the movies as well as the great respect he was given as a Mexican movie hero.\n\nEl Santo and several other masked wrestlers make a brief cameo in the Batman '66 comic series, based on the Batman TV show that originally aired in the 1960s. They aid Batman in defeating the evil luchador Bane after Batman cuts Bane off from using Venom to boost his strength.\n\nThe 2017 Pixar film \"Coco\" features a cameo of El Santo in the Land of the Dead, as an excited security guard takes a photo with him.\n\n\nPostscript:\n\nJust over a year after his retirement (in late January 1984), El Santo was a guest on \"Contrapunto\", a Mexican television program and, completely without warning, removed his mask just enough to expose his face, in effect bidding his fans goodbye. It is the only documented case of Santo ever removing his mask in public. Santo died from a heart attack (during a stage show he was putting on) on February 5, 1984, at 9:40 p.m., a week after his \"Contrapunto\" TV appearance. In accordance with his wishes, he was buried wearing his famous silver mask. His funeral is considered one of the biggest in Mexican history as fans and friends flocked to see \"El Enmascarado De Plata\" (\"The Silver-Masked One\") one last time. After his death, a statue of El Santo was erected in his home town of Tulancingo and other statues have been created since then.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649604", "title": "Eric Smith (murderer)", "text": "Eric Smith (murderer)\n\nEric M. Smith (born January 22, 1980) is an American criminal, incarcerated for the murder of four-year-old Derrick Robie (born October 2, 1988) on August 2, 1993, in Steuben County, New York. Smith was convicted of second-degree murder in 1994 and sentenced to the maximum term then available for juvenile murderers: a minimum of nine years to life in prison.\n\nSmith enjoyed spending time with his grandparents, Red and Edie Wilson; Red said \"He'd always come in and give us hugs and kisses. He liked being a clown.\" However, Eric Smith had been diagnosed by a defense psychiatrist with intermittent explosive disorder, a mental disorder causing individuals to act out violently and unpredictably, but the prosecution's expert said it was a rare disorder that was rarely seen at Smith's age. Smith was subjected to extensive medical testing from specialists on both sides. They examined brain function, hormone levels and found nothing to explain his violent behavior. According to court documents, Smith, a loner, was often tormented by bullies for his protruding low-set ears, thick glasses, red hair and freckles. It later emerged that during her pregnancy, Eric's mother took an epilepsy drug, Tridione, which is known to cause birth defects. It has been speculated that this contributed to Eric's downfall, as he was often bullied for the size of his ears, and led to what Eric himself described as pent-up rage, which he would later take out on Derrick Robie.\n\nOn August 2, 1993, Eric Smith was riding his bike to a summer day camp in a local park and 4-year-old Derrick Robie was walking alone to that same camp. Smith saw Robie and lured him into a nearby wooded area. There, Smith strangled him, dropped a large rock on the boy's head, undressed his body, and sodomized him with a tree limb. The cause of death was determined to be blunt trauma to the head with contributing asphyxia.\n\nAround 11:00 a.m., Robie's mother, Doreen, went to the park to pick up her son, only to find that Robie had not arrived. After four hours of investigation, Robie's body was found. The murder case made national headlines, largely due to the age of the killer (13) and of the victim (4).\n\nOn August 8, 1993, Eric Smith confessed to his mother that he murdered Derrick. The Smith family informed law enforcement later that night.\n\nIn his 2014 parole hearing, Smith said that he had been bullied by older children at school, and also by his father and older sister. He confessed that he took his rage out on Robie, so he killed him. Smith said that the stick was inserted in order to ensure death.\n\nOn August 16, 1994, Smith was convicted of second-degree murder and sentenced to the maximum term then available for juvenile murderers: a minimum of nine years to life in prison. While in jail, Smith wrote an apology letter to Robie's family; he read it on public television: \"I know my actions have caused a terrible loss in the Robie family, and for that, I am truly sorry. I've tried to think as much as possible about what Derrick will never experience: his 16th birthday, Christmas, anytime, owning his own house, graduating, going to college, getting married, his first child. If I could go back in time, I would switch places with Derrick and endure all the pain I've caused him. If it meant that he would go on living, I'd switch places, but I can't.\" At the end of this statement, Smith states that he cannot bear the thought of \"walls, razor wire, and steel metal bars\" for the rest of his life. He has also apologized to Derrick Robie in interviews.\n\nSmith has been denied parole nine times since 2002, most recently in April 2018. He will next be eligible for parole in 2020. After the failed 2012 hearing, the parole board cited a concern for public safety in its decision, and Robie's parents opposed his release. At that hearing, he told a parole board he would not return to Savona if released, and instead would go to a shelter or halfway house.\n\nSmith was held in a juvenile facility for three years and was then transferred to an open prison for young adults. In 2001, he was transferred to the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, a maximum security prison. As of May 3, 2016, the NYS Department of Corrections website shows him incarcerated at Collins Correctional Facility, a medium security prison for male inmates in Erie County, New York.\n\nOn April 21, 2018 Smith was denied parole for the 9th time since his incarceration. He will next appear before the parole board in January 2020.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41408790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41408790", "title": "Ernest Black", "text": "Ernest Black\n\nErnest Douglas Black (date of birth unknown-1931; also credited as \"Edmund D. Black\") was a British tennis player active in the late 19th century and early 20th century.\n\nBlack reached the quarterfinals of the U.S. National Championships in 1900, losing to the only other competing British player, future three-time Wimbledon champion Arthur Gore. He competed in the very first edition of the Davis Cup (then known as the International Lawn Tennis Challenge) in 1900.\n\n"}
{"id": "29872181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29872181", "title": "George W. Guess", "text": "George W. Guess\n\nGeorge William Guess (1822 – 18 July 1868) was mayor of Dallas, Texas (1866–1868).\n\nGeorge W. Guess was born in North Carolina in 1822. He arrived in Texas about 1853 to practice law. He married Mary (Molly) Brown Miller, daughter of William Brown Miller and Minerva Barnes December 4, 1856. The couple had one child, George W. Guess, Jr. who died as an infant. Mary Miller Guess died in 1861.\n\nOn March 12, 1862 Guess enlisted in Dallas as a private in Capt. William W. Peak's Company, Hawpe's Regiment Texas Cavalry providing his own horse. This company became Co. A 31st Regiment of the Texas Volunteer Cavalry. On May 14, 1862 he was commissioned a Lt. Col. He was accused by the Confederates of speculating in cotton in 1862. He was captured by Maj. Gen. Dana's forces near Morganza, Louisiana September 29, 1863 and was imprisoned in New Orleans. In December 1864 he was transferred to Ship Island, Mississippi, a Union prison for Confederate soldiers.\n\nGeorge Guess was elected mayor in 1866 after John W. Lane resigned and served until Benjamin Long was appointed by federal military government. He was a member of the Tannehill Lodge No. 52, A. F. and A. M. and served as Worshipful Master in 1860, 1861, 1862 and 1867.\n\nG. W. Guess died on the steamer \"Victor\" from sunstroke in the Mississippi River near Memphis, Tennessee on July 18, 1868. Guess had traveled to Memphis to bring back the body of his wife's brother-in-law, Frank Roberson, but instead was interred beside him at Elmwood Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "38490371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38490371", "title": "Global Terrorism Index", "text": "Global Terrorism Index\n\nThe Global Terrorism Index (GTI) is a report published annually by the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP), and was developed by IT entrepreneur and IEP's founder Steve Killelea.\n\nThe index provides a comprehensive summary of the key global trends and patterns in terrorism since 2000. It produces a composite score in order to provide an ordinal ranking of countries on the impact of terrorism.\n\nIt is an attempt to systematically rank the nations of the world according to terrorist activity. The index combines a number of factors associated with terrorist attacks to build an explicit picture of the impact of terrorism, illustrating trends, and providing a data series for analysis by researchers and policymakers.\n\nThe GTI is based on data from the Global Terrorism Database (GTD) which is collected and collated by the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START) at the University of Maryland. The GTD has codified over 150,000 cases of terrorism.\n\nThe GTI covers 163 countries, covering 99.7% of the world's population.\n\nThe aim of the report is to examine trends and to help inform a positive and practical debate about the future of terrorism and the required policy responses.\n\nThe GTI was developed in consultation with the Global Peace Index expert panel.\n\nThere is no single internationally accepted definition of what constitutes terrorism, IEP accepts the terminology and definitions agreed to by the authors of the GTD, the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START) researchers and its advisory panel. The GTI therefore defines terrorism as “the threatened or actual use of illegal force and violence by a non-state actor to attain a political, economic, religious, or social goal through fear, coercion, or intimidation”. This definition recognises that terrorism is not only the physical act of an attack, but also the psychological impact it has on a society for many years after.\n\nIn order to be included as an incident in the GTD the act has to be: “an intentional act of violence or threat of violence by a non-state actor\". This means an incident has to meet three criteria in order for it to be counted as a terrorist act:\n\n\nThe GTI score for a country in a given year is based on a unique scoring system to account for the relative impact of incidents in the year. There are four factors counted in each country's yearly score:\n\n\nEach of the factors is weighted differently and a five-year weighted average is applied to importantly reflect the lingering psychological effect of terrorist acts over time. The weightings shown in the table below were determined by consultation with the GPI Expert Panel:\n\nThe greatest weighting is attributed to a fatality. The property damage measure is further disaggregated into four bands depending on the measured scope of the property damage inflicted by one incident. These bandings are shown in the table below, whereby incidents causing less than US$1 million are accorded a weight of 1, between $1 million and $1 billion, and more than $1 billion. A great majority of incidents are coded in the GTD as an 'unknown' level of property damage, thus scoring nil, with 'catastrophic' events being extremely rare.\n\nTo assign a relative number to how a country has been directly impacted by terrorism in any given year, for every incident recorded, the GTI calculates a weighted sum of all indicators. To illustrate, the table below depicts a hypothetical country's score for a given year:\n\nThe economic impact of terrorism is calculated using IEP's cost of violence methodology.\n\nThe model includes both the direct and indirect costs, such as the lost life-time earnings, cost of medical treatments and property destruction from incidents of terrorism. The direct costs include those borne by the victim of the terrorist act and associated expenditure, such as medical spending. The indirect costs include lost productivity and earning as well as the psychological trauma to the victims, their families and friends.\n\nThe analysis presents conservative estimates of the economic impact of terrorism and does not include variables for which detailed appropriate data was not available. For instance, the analysis does not include the impact on business, the cost of fear from terrorism or the cost of counterterrorism.\n\nThe global economic impact of terrorism reached US$89.6 billion in 2015, decreasing by 15 per cent from its 2014 level.\n\nThere have been three peaks in the economic impact of terrorism since the year 2000 and they are linked to the three major waves of terrorism. The first large increase in the economic impact of terrorism happened in 2001, when the attacks of September 11 in New York City and Washington D.C. took place. The second peak was in 2007 at the height of the Iraq war. The 2007 increase is mainly attributed to al-Qa'ida affiliated terrorist groups and coincided with the coalition troop surge in Iraq. The third wave started in 2012 and is still continuing, with the economic impact of terrorism peaking at US$105.6 billion in 2014. The increase in the last four years was mainly driven by increases in terrorism in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan.\n\nInstitute for Economics and Peace has published five editions of the Global Terrorism Index to date. The most recent report was released in November 2017.\n\nThe first edition of Global Terrorism Index was published in 2012. The study covered analysis of 158 countries. Data showed that terrorism increased by 234 per cent from 2002 to 2011.\n\nThe 2012 report found that the global impact of terrorism increased significantly from 2002 to 2007, reaching its peak in 2007, and subsequently plateauing. The biggest rise took place over the period from 2005 to 2007 when the majority of the global increase in terrorism was driven by events in Iraq. Four other countries also significantly contributed to the global rise with Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Philippines all experiencing increases, especially between 2007 and 2009.\n\nOnly 20 nations scored a zero for terrorist impact over the 2002-2011 period, indicating the impact of terror, while heavily concentrated in some places like Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, was widely distributed around the world.\n\nThe countries most heavily affected by terrorism in 2011 were, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India and Yemen. Including these countries, the top ten countries affected by terrorism accounted for 87 per cent of total global incidents.\n\nThe second edition of Global Terrorism Index was published in November 2014. The study covered analysis of 162 countries. From 2000 to 2013 there was a five-fold increase in the number of people killed by terrorism, resulting in approximately 18,000 deaths.\n\nOf the 162 countries, 87 experienced a terrorist incident, but only 60 countries recorded one or more deaths from terrorism in 2013. Worldwide over 50 per cent of terrorist attacks claimed no fatalities and only 10 per cent claimed more than five lives. Explosives were used for 60 per cent of attacks, with firearms used in 30 per cent and 10 per cent of attacks using other weapons.\n\nIn 2013 terrorist activity increased substantially with the total number of deaths rising from 11,133 in 2012 to 17,958 in 2013, a 61 per cent increase. Over the same period, the number of countries that experienced more than 50 deaths rose from 15 to 24. This highlighted that not only was the intensity of terrorism increasing, its breadth was increasing as well.\n\nThe countries most heavily affected by terrorism in 2013 were, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Syria. Four terrorist groups, ISIL, Boko Haram, the Taliban, and al-Qa'ida, claimed 66 per cent of deaths in 2013. Among OECD countries, Turkey and Mexico reported the highest deaths in 2013 losing 57 and 40 lives respectively. Since 2000, seven per cent of all terrorist incidents occurred in OECD countries.\n\nThe third edition of Global Terrorism Index was published in November 2015. The study covered analysis of 162 countries. Data from 2014 showed there has been a nine-fold increase in the number of deaths from terrorism since 2000.\n\nTerrorist activity increased by 80 per cent in 2014 to its highest recorded level. The largest ever year-on-year increase in deaths from terrorism was recorded in 2014, rising from 18,111 in 2013 to 32,685 in 2014. Terrorism deaths spread geographically as well with the number of countries experiencing over 500 deaths increasing from five to 11.\n\nThe rise in terrorism can largely be attributed to two groups: ISIS; and Boko Haram, the Nigerian jihadist group that pledged allegiance to ISIS in March 2015. Combined, these groups were responsible for 51% of all terrorism-related deaths in 2014.\n\nIn the West, lone wolf attacks account for 70 per cent of terrorist deaths since 2006. Amongst lone actors, few attacks were inspired by Islamic fundamentalism, with 80 per cent of attacks were attributed to a range of right-wing extremists, nationalists, and other types of political extremism and supremacism.\n\nThe countries most heavily affected by terrorism in 2014 were, Iraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Pakistan and Syria. Terrorism increased most significantly in Nigeria, where deaths increased by over 300 per cent to 7,512 fatalities.\n\nThe fourth edition of Global Terrorism Index was published in November 2016. The study covered analysis of 163 countries. Overall, the global GTI score decreased by six per cent.\n\nIn 2015, the number of deaths from terrorism decreased by ten percent, the first decline since 2010. However, the 29,376 deaths recorded still rank 2015 as the second deadliest year on record. While much attention has been devoted to ISIL, the Taliban recorded its deadliest year in Afghanistan.\n\nAs with the past three years, Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan, Nigeria, and Syria suffered the highest levels of terrorism, accounting for 72 per cent of all deaths from terrorism in 2015. Large decreases in fatalities in Iraq and Nigeria accounted for a large portion of the worldwide decrease.\n\nConversely, in OECD member countries, deaths from terrorism dramatically increased in 2015, rising by 650 per cent when compared to 2014. Twenty-one of the 34 OECD countries experienced at least one terrorist attack with the majority of deaths occurring in Turkey and France. Of attacks conducted in the United States, 98 per cent were carried out by lone actors, resulting in 156 deaths.\n\nThe fifth edition of the Global Terrorism Index was published in November 2017. The study covered analysis of 163 countries. The global GTI scored deteriorated by four per cent from 2015 to 2016.\n\nOverall, deaths from terrorism have fallen for the second consecutive year, resulting in a 22 per cent decrease since the peak in 2014. At an all-time high, 106 countries experienced at least one terrorist attack. Of these, 77 countries recorded at least one death, an increase from 65 countries in 2015.\n\nIraq, Afghanistan, Nigeria, Syria, and Pakistan remain the top five countries most affected by terrorism, however Nigeria also saw the greatest reduction in deaths. In 2016, deaths attributed to Boko Haram decreased by 80 per cent, however, deaths attributed to ISIL increased by 49 per cent. Together these five countries accounted for three quarters of all deaths from terrorism in 2016.\n\nOECD countries have experienced a rise in terrorism, accounting for one per cent of global deaths from terrorism in 2016. In 2010 OECD countries accounted for just 0.1 per cent of deaths. Attacks in OECD countries have shifted tactics since 2014 to utilize simpler methods against non-traditional targets. Less sophisticated attacks can be executed at a lower cost and can be more difficult to detect. Positively, the first six months of 2017 have recorded 82 deaths from terrorism, lower than the 265 deaths in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21729774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21729774", "title": "Hanoi Poison Plot", "text": "Hanoi Poison Plot\n\nThe Poisoning at Hanoi Citadel (Vietnamese:\"Hà Thành đầu độc\") was a poisoning plot which occurred in 1908 when a group of Vietnamese indigenous tirailleurs attempted to poison the entire French colonial army's garrison in the Citadel of Hanoi. The aim of the plot was to neutralize the French garrison and make way for Hoang Hoa Tham's rebel army to capture Hanoi. The plot was disclosed, and then was suppressed by the French.\n\nIn early 1908, Hoang Hoa Tham collaborated with Vietnamese nationalists, including Phan Boi Chau, in organizing a plot to seize Hanoi from the French. Vietnamese cooks were to neutralize the French garrison in Hanoi by poisoning their dinner foods; at the same time, Vietnamese soldiers (Grade Indochinois) would attack and prevent French troops at Don Thuy, Son Tay, and Bac Ninh from coming to the aid of the Citadel of Hanoi; and Hoang Hoa Tham would wait outside the citadel and launch an attack on Gia Lam when the signal arrived from the inside.\n\nThe plan was executed on the evening of 27 June 1908, when the group of Vietnamese cooks managed to mix datura poison with food they had prepared for a party. The poison immediately knocked out nearly 200 French troops but did not kill them. Moreover, one of the cooks had felt guilty and had gone to a church for confession, the French priest then reporting this to government officials; the French general-in-charge in Hanoi immediately proclaimed martial law and ordered the arrest of plot leaders and plotters. Outside the citadel, Hoang Hoa Tham did not receive the signal he was expecting, realized the plot had failed and withdrew all his troops.\n\nIn quick response to the plot, the French executed by guillotine 13 plotters. On 8 July 1908, another 24 death sentences were announced and the remaining rebels were sentenced to life or exiled. Severely repressive actions were launched against the Vietnamese activists, and hundreds of them, including Phan Châu Trinh, were sent to Con Dao prison. The French also accused Phan Boi Chau of the plot, forcing him to flee to Japan; this abortive plot later became one of many incidents that eventually landed Chau in French prison in 1914. On the other hand, the French began hunting Hoang Hoa Tham. They attacked and defeated Tham in 11 major battles from 29 January through 11 November 1909 and then surrounded him in Yen The, though Tham fled and kept on fighting until he was assassinated in 1913.\n\n"}
{"id": "27088551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27088551", "title": "Jenny Addams", "text": "Jenny Addams\n\nJenny Addams (15 February 1909, date of death unknown) was a Belgian fencer. She competed at four Olympic Games.\n"}
{"id": "34898033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34898033", "title": "John Philip Newell", "text": "John Philip Newell\n\nJohn Philip Newell (born 1953) is a poet, peacemaker, minister and scholar, internationally acclaimed for his work in the field of Celtic spirituality. Based in Edinburgh, Scotland, with his wife (Alison Newell née Cant) and four children, Newell teaches and preaches internationally on themes related to the sacredness of the earth and the oneness of the human soul. He is one of the most prominent teachers of spirituality in the English-speaking world.\n\nNewell was born 4 May 1953, in Chatham, Ontario, Canada, third of four children to the Rev Dr William James Newell (Christian pastor and Director of World Vision Canada) and Pearl Newell, née Ferguson (mother and housewife). Following his early education in the Canadian public school system, he received a BA in English Literature (McMaster University 1975), a BD in Theology (University of Edinburgh 1978), and a PhD in Ecclesiastical History (University of Edinburgh 1981).\nAn ordained Church of Scotland minister, Newell has served as Ecumenical Chaplain to McMaster University (1982–88), Warden of Iona Abbey in Scotland (1988–92), Assistant Minister at St Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh (1992–95), Warden of Spirituality for the Anglican Diocese of Portsmouth in England (1995–2000), Scholar in Spirituality at St Giles Cathedral (2000–02), as well as the honorary positions of Writer Theologian for the Cathedral of the Isles in Scotland (2003–05), and, since 2006, Companion Theologian for Casa del Sol in New Mexico, USA.\n\nIn 2011, Newell launched the Praying for Peace Initiative in New Mexico to nurture greater relationship between Judaism, Christianity and Islam, and in the same year co-founded Heartbeat: A Sacred Journey Towards Earth's Healing (www.heartbeatjourney.org). In November 2011, he was honoured with the first-ever Contemplative Voices Award by the Shalem Institute in Washington, DC, in recognition of his service to spirituality and peacemaking.\n\nNewell celebrates the sacredness of the universe under the belief that everything that exists is made of God:\n\nNew science speaks of being able to detect the sound of the beginning in the universe. It vibrates within the matter of everything that has being. New science is echoing the ancient wisdom of spiritual insight. In the twelfth century Hildegard of Bingen taught that the sound of God resonates ‘in every creature’. It is ‘the holy sound’, she says, ‘which echoes through the whole creation.’ If we are to listen for the One from whom we have come, it is not away from creation that we are to turn our ears, it is not away from the true depths of our being that we are to listen. It is rather to the very heart of all life that we are to turn our inner attention. For then we will hear that the deepest sound within us is the deepest sound within one another and within everything that has being. We will hear that the true harmony of our being belongs to the universe and that the true harmony of the universe belongs to us. … Everything arises from that sacred sound.\"\n\nNewell sees that an essential part of the pathway towards healing in our world is to become more deeply conscious of our brokenness, individually and collectively:\n\nKnowing and naming brokenness is essential in the journey towards wholeness. We will not be well by denying the wrongs that we carry within us as nations and religions and communities. Nor will we be well by downplaying them or projecting them onto others. The path to wholeness will take us not around such awareness but through it, confronting the depths of our brokenness before being able to move forward towards healing. As Hildegard of Bingen says, we need two wings with which to fly. One is the ‘knowledge of good’ and the other is the ‘knowledge of evil’. If we lack one or the other we will be like an eagle with only one wing. We will fall to the ground instead of rising to the heights of unitary vision. We will live in half-consciousness instead of whole-consciousness.\"\n\nAnd Newell teaches that transformation will come in our lives and world to the extent that we choose to bear the cost of transformation:\n\nLike never before in the history of humanity, we are becoming aware of our inter-relatedness. We are beginning to comprehend that what we do to other species is what we do to ourselves. We are beginning to perceive that what we do to other nations and peoples is what we do to our own soul. The question is whether we will choose to translate this emerging consciousness into transformative action. And the further question is where we will find strength and vision for this work.\"\n\nCentral to Newell's practice of spirituality is his belief that meditative discipline and prayer serve the way of transformation.\n<poem>\nTo the home of peace\nto the field of love\nto the land where forgiveness and right relationship meet\nwe look, O God,\nwith longing for earth’s children\nwith compassion for the creatures\nwith hearts breaking for the people and nations we love.\nOpen us to visions we have never known\nstrengthen us for self-givings we have never made\ndelight us with a oneness we could never have imagined\nthat we may truly be born of You\nmakers of peace.</poem>\n\nEd, The Iona Community Worship Book (Wild Goose Publications, 1991)\n\nEach Day and Each Night: A Weekly Cycle of Prayer from Iona (Wild Goose Publications, 1994) published in the USA as Celtic Prayers from Iona (Paulist Press, 1997)\n\nAn Earthful of Glory: Prayers and Meditations (SPCK, 1996)\nListening for the Heartbeat of God: A Celtic Spirituality (SPCK, 1997) published in the USA (Paulist Press, 1997)\n\nOne Foot in Eden: The Stages of Life (SPCK, 1998) published in the USA (Paulist Press, 1999)\n\nPromptings from Paradise (SPCK, 1999) published in the USA (Paulist Press, 2000)\n\nThe Book of Creation: The Practice of Celtic Spirituality (Canterbury/SCM, 1999) published in the USA (Paulist Press, 1999) \nCeltic Benediction: Morning and Night Prayer (Canterbury/SCM, 2000) published in the USA (Eerdmans, 2000)\n\nEcho of the Soul: the Sacredness of the Human Body (Canterbury/SCM, 2000) published in the USA (Morehouse, 2001)\nSounds of the Eternal: A Celtic Psalter (Canterbury/SCM, 2002) published in the USA (Eerdmans, 2002)\n\nSounds of the Eternal: Meditative Chants & Prayers CD (Material Media, 2005)\n\nShakespeare and the Human Mystery (Azure, 2003) published in the USA (Paulist Press, 2003)\n\nCeltic Treasure: Daily Readings and Prayer (Canterbury/SCM, 2005) published in the USA (Eerdmans, 2005)\n\nChrist of the Celts: the Healing of Creation (Jossey-Bass, 2008) published in the UK (Wild Goose Publications, 2009)\n\nChrist of the Celts Audio CD (Material Media, 2008).\n\nGround of All Being (New Beginnings, 2008)\n\nPraying with the Earth: A Prayer Book for Peace (Canterbury, 2011) published in the USA (Eerdmans, 2011)\n\nChanting for Peace: Praying with the Earth CD (Material Media, 2011)\n\nA New Harmony: the Spirit, the Earth, and the Human Soul (Jossey-Bass, 2011) published in the UK (St Andrew Press, 2012)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43489210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43489210", "title": "K. K. Aroor", "text": "K. K. Aroor\n\nK. K. Aroor was an Indian film actor, singer and music composer in Malayalam cinema. He was the first hero ever in Malayalam movies, with \"Balan\" in 1938, the first talkie ever made in Malayalam.\n\nK. K. Aroor was born as K. Kunju Nair on 1907 to Madathil Gopala Pillai and Parvathy Amma at Alappuzha district. He has a brother, Raman Nair. Kunju Nair was forced to drop out of school after eighth standard due to his family's troubled financial situation. He had always aspired to be an actor. He landed a few odd jobs. Later he joined \"P.S.V Nadana Sabha\", a drama troupe in Kottakkal. He worked there for 18 years, mainly portraying female characters. It was during this time that he saw a newspaper advertisement that called for young actors to act in \"Balan\". He was selected to play the lead role. He changed his name to K. K. Aroor. There were 23 songs in Balan all were composed by Ibrahim and K.K.Aroor and written by Muthukulam Raghavan Pillai. Then he played a negative role in \"Jnanambika\". He later joined \"Harikatha Kalakshepam\", another drama troupe. In 1973, P. A. Thomas gave him a small role in his film \"Kudumbini\", and with that movie he retired from cinema.\n\nHe was married to Pankajakshiyamma with whom he had a son, Vasudevan. He struggled financially and that forced him to work as a server in a tea shop during the last days of his life. He died on 1984 at Palai.\n\n\n\nAll songs are from Balan (1938)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8313066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8313066", "title": "Kim Hyung-chil", "text": "Kim Hyung-chil\n\nKim Hyung-chil (Hangul: 김형칠, Hanja: 金亨七) (1 July 1959 - 7 December 2006 in Doha) was a South Korean horse rider. He was a silver medalist in the three-day team event at the 2002 Asian Games in Busan, and was the oldest member of South Korea's equestrian team. Kim participated in the Seoul 1988 and Barcelona 1992 Summer Olympics and also featured in the World Championships in equestrianism.\n\nHe died on December 7, 2006 when he fell from his horse during the 2006 Asian Games Equestrian competition. The incident occurred on jump No. 8 during the cross country stage of the three-day event, Asian Games organizing committee spokesman Ahmed Abdulla Al Khulaifi said. After steady rain, the track condition was far from ideal and although the first 10 competitors finished the race without incident, tragedy struck for Kim, the 11th competitor of the race.\n\nTelevision footage shows that his horse, Bundaberg Black, got caught in a fence obstacle, first throwing Kim over the obstacle, and then itself being catapulted over, crushing the front of Kim's head and his chest area when its flanks landed on him. Kim never regained consciousness and died shortly before noon local time.\n\nKim's death was the first fatality in the cross-country event in Asian Games history, and the first South Korean fatality at a major international equestrian event.\n\n"}
{"id": "52261065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52261065", "title": "La Veneno", "text": "La Veneno\n\nCristina Ortiz Rodríguez (19 March 1964 – 9 November 2016), better known as La Veneno (\"Poison\"), was a Spanish transsexual vedette, singer and actress. She is better known for appearing in the late-night talk shows \"Esta noche cruzamos el Mississippi\" and \"La sonrisa del pelícano\", broadcast between 1996–97 and hosted by journalist Pepe Navarro.\n\nLa Veneno was born José Antonio Ortiz Rodríguez in Adra, Almería, the daughter of José María Ortiz López and María Jesús Rodríguez Rivera. She noted from an early age that she was different from other children and as such was never accepted in her village.\n\nIn 1991 she went to Madrid. Later she started her process of transition and worked as prostitute in Parque del Oeste park in Madrid. There she was discovered in 1996 by journalist and TV host Pepe Navarro, who cast her for numerous collaborations in his late nights \"Esta noche cruzamos el Mississippi\" and \"La sonrisa del pelícano\".\n\nFrom 2003-06, she served prison time for arson and insurance fraud. In 2006, weighing 122 kilos and showing physical deterioration she reappeared in gossip TV shows.\n\nFrom 2010-12 she suffered from bulimia and depression. In addition, her boyfriend disappeared with her savings (more than 60 000 euros) and so she was left with a house and a pension of 300 euros.\n\nOn 3 October 2016, she launched her long awaited memoir book, \"Digo! Ni puta ni Santa. Las memorias de La Veneno\", co-written with the help of her friend Valeria Vegas.\n\nOn 5 November 2016, she was found in her house with bruises and suffering from traumatic brain injury. She was found by her boyfriend lying on the sofa. She was transferred to the Hospital Universitario La Paz, where she died on 9 November 2016. The autopsy determined that the cause of death was an accidental fall.\n\nWhile she was hospitalized on ICU, close people to La Veneno speculated that the cause of death was a settle of scores, because she received death threats after the publication of her autobiography.\n\n"}
{"id": "44610921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44610921", "title": "List of suicides that have been attributed to bullying", "text": "List of suicides that have been attributed to bullying\n\nThe following is a list of notable suicides that have been attributed to bullying including both in-person bullying and bullying using social media or Internet methods (cyberbullying).\n\nFor a list of people who committed suicide due to any cause or reason, see List of suicides and List of suicides in the 21st century.\n\n"}
{"id": "55848491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55848491", "title": "Low milk supply", "text": "Low milk supply\n\nIn breastfeeding women, low milk supply, also known as lactation insufficiency, insufficient milk syndrome, agalactia, agalactorrhea, hypogalactia or hypogalactorrhea, is the production of breast milk in daily volumes that do not fully meet the nutritional needs of her infant. \n\nBreast milk supply augments in response to the baby's demand for milk, and decreases when milk is allowed to remain in the breasts. Low milk supply is usually caused by allowing milk to remain in the breasts for long periods of time, or insufficiently draining the breasts during feeds. It is usually preventable, unless caused by medical conditions that have been estimated to affect up to five percent of women. \n\nSeveral common misconceptions often lead mothers to believe they have insufficient milk when they are in fact producing enough. Actual low milk supply is likely if the baby is latching and swallowing well at the breast, is nevertheless not growing well or is showing signs of dehydration or malnutrition, and does not have a medical condition that would explain the lack of growth. The main method for increasing milk supply is improved breastfeeding practices and/or expressing milk through pumping or hand expression. The medication domperidone increases milk supply for some women. For mothers who cannot breastfeed exclusively, breastfeeding as much as possible, with supplementary formula feeding as necessary, offers many benefits over formula alone.\n\nA mother is considered to have low milk supply if she produces less breast milk than her infant requires. The term is used only after a mother's milk \"comes in\", which usually occurs around 30–40 hours after delivery of a full-term infant. Low milk supply is distinct from the scenario in which the mother's milk comes in later than normal but is thereafter produced in sufficient quantities; this is known as delayed onset of lactation (delayed lactogenesis II).\n\nLow milk supply can be either \"primary\" (caused by medical conditions or anatomical issues in the mother), \"secondary\" (caused by not thoroughly and regularly removing milk from the breasts) or both. Secondary causes are far more common than primary ones. The incidence of primary lactation insufficiency is not known, but has been estimated at up to 5% of women. \n\nBreastfeeding management issues that can interfere with regular milk drainage from the breast include poor latch, unnecessary use of supplemental formula, timed or scheduled feedings (as opposed to on-demand feedings), and overuse of pacifiers. Medical conditions in the infant that result in weak or unco-ordinated sucking can cause low milk supply by inhibiting the transfer of milk to the baby. These conditions include tongue-tie, congenital heart defects, prematurity, and Down syndrome.\n\nPrimary causes of low milk supply include:\n\nSmoking more than 15 cigarettes per day is associated with reduced milk production. Many medications are known to significantly suppress milk production, including pseudoephedrine, diuretics, and contraceptives that contain estrogen. It is suspected that some herbs, particularly sage, suppress milk production.\n\nThe physiological mechanisms that regulate breast milk supply are poorly understood. High levels of prolactin are necessary for lactation, however there is no direct correlation between baseline levels of prolactin and quantity of milk production. One aspect of supply regulation that has been identified is that breast milk contains a peptide called feedback inhibitor of lactation (FIL). When milk is present in the breast, FIL inhibits the secretion of milk. \nAfter a mother's milk comes in, a reduction in supply is inevitable unless milk is removed regularly and thoroughly from the breasts. \n\nSurgery or injury to the breast can decrease supply by disrupting milk ducts that carry milk from the alveoli, where milk is produced, to the nipple. Retained placenta results in high levels of progesterone, a hormone that inhibits lactation.\n\nA woman's belief that her milk supply is insufficient is one of the most common reasons for discontinuing breastfeeding. In many of those cases, the woman's milk supply is actually normal. After a few weeks or months of breastfeeding, changes that are commonly mistaken for signs of low milk supply include breasts feeling softer (this is normal after 1—3 months), more frequent demands by the infant to feed, feeds becoming shorter over time, baby colic, the perception that the baby is more satisfied after being fed infant formula, and a slowdown in growth after three months. \n\nTo evaluate whether milk supply is actually insufficient, qualitative parameters should be used such as the following:\n\nIf an infant is not showing these signs of growing well, other possible causes include:\n\nThe first week after birth is a critical window for establishing milk supply. The \"Ten Steps\" of the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative describe some maternity hospital practices that promote the development of a good milk supply, such as rooming in (allowing mothers and infants to remain together 24 hours a day) and having trained staff available to help mothers with breastfeeding. Supplemental formula or donor milk should be given only when medically necessary. \n\nFrequent suckling in the first days of life is correlated with higher milk production. Infants should be fed when they show signs of hunger. It is common for breastfed babies to feed during the night for the first six months. Usually feedings last 10—15 minutes in the early days. \n\nIf the infant is unable to breastfeed, it is recommended that pumping or hand expression of milk begin within two hours of delivery, and be done at least eight times every 24 hours.\n\nAttempts to increase milk supply should begin promptly as the longer low supply continues, the more difficult it is to reverse. The primary method for increasing milk supply is to increase the frequency and the thoroughness of milk drainage from the breasts, and to increase breast stimulation. \n\nFor mothers of healthy term infants who are able to nurse, very strong evidence supports improving breastfeeding practices as a primary treatment. Increasing skin-to-skin contact between mother and baby, and allowing unrestricted breastfeeding, aid in stimulating the milk ejection reflex and promote frequent feeds. If the baby's latch is not optimal, improving the latch will help the baby drink more milk. Making the mother comfortable, particularly by resolving nipple pain, is essential. Breast self-massage is recommended to stimulate the milk ejection reflex and to physically promote the flow of milk. Some experts recommend using a breast pump after each breastfeeding session.\n\nIf the baby cannot nurse effectively, frequent drainage of milk from the breasts through hand expression and/or an electric double breast pump is recommended. \n\nThe mother's use of medications and herbs should be evaluated, as some substance suppress lactation. The Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine protocol for low milk supply recommends that the mother be evaluated for medical causes of the problem, however health professionals and breastfeeding counsellors often do not do this. \n\nAfter the above treatment methods have been attempted, many breastfeeding specialists and lactation consultants recommend medications or herbs that are believed to increase milk supply (galactagogues). In 2010, a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study demonstrated that domperidone increased milk production in mothers of preterm infants. Another very small study of domperidone found that some women respond to it and others do not. As the effects of domperidone stop when use of the drug is stopped, it is sometimes used for months. Domperidone is available by prescription in Canada, Australia, many parts of Europe, and other countries, but not in the United States. \n\nSeveral herbs, including fenugreek and milk thistle are traditionally and widely used with the intention of promoting milk supply. For these herbs, there are anecdotal reports of efficacy which may be due to placebo effect. Scientific evidence for the efficacy of herbal galactagogues is insufficient or nonexistent. The Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine protocol for low milk supply says that there is insufficient data to recommend specific medicinal or herbal galactagogues, but that some substances may be useful in some cases.\n\nIf the mother's milk supply is insufficient, formula or (preferably) donor milk is necessary in order for the infant to obtain adequate nutrients. Supplements should be given immediately after a breastfeeding session, rather than in place of a breastfeeding session. \n\nThe use of supplements is gradually tapered off as the mother's own milk supply rebounds. In some cases, especially when low supply is caused by medical conditions such as insufficient glandular tissue, long-term use of supplements is necessary. For mothers who cannot breastfeed exclusively, breastfeeding as much as possible, with formula feeding as necessary, offers many benefits over formula alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "45395886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395886", "title": "Merla Zellerbach", "text": "Merla Zellerbach\n\nMerla Zellerbach, née Myrle Carmel Burstein, was born in San Francisco in 1930, the daughter of Rabbi Elliot M. and Lottie Burstein. While attending Stanford University, she met and soon thereafter married Stephen Zellerbach. They had one child, son Gary. Her literary, civic and philanthropic work began at the time of her first marriage. By the time of her death on December 26, 2014, she authored 13 well reviewed novels and five self-help medical books, was a panelist for six years on the ABC TV show Oh My Word, and a columnist for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\". Subsequently, she was Editor of the \"Nob Hill Gazette\" for twelve years. Charities she supported and/or worked for included Compassion and Choices, the Coalition on Homelessness San Francisco, the Kidney Foundation, and a dozen more.\n\nHer death has taken on the focus of her most important cause later in life, the “Death with Dignity” movement, spearheaded by the non-profit group, Compassion and Choices. As an advocate and rallying point for this movement, to allow terminally ill patients to choose their time of death (under a strictly defined and controlled process), she generated considerable press and publicity and contributed greatly to the momentum embracing a change in the law.\n\nMerla Zellerbach attended San Francisco's Grant Grammar School, was vice president of the student body at Lowell High School, and studied psychology at Stanford University.\n\nHer marriage to Stephen Zellerbach ended after 18 years in an amicable divorce. Her second husband for 26 years was TV and radio commentator Fred Goerner, author of “The Search for Amelia Earhart.” He died of cancer in 1994. Four years later, at the home of Merla's close friends Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Richard Blum, she married former Crown-Zellerbach executive and longtime Civil Service and Library Commissioner Lee Munson. They remained married until her death.\n\nMerla's father, Rabbi Elliot Burstein, led Congregation Beth Israel (now Beth Israel Judea) in San Francisco. Her mother, Lottie, helped out at her husband's temple and found a creative outlet by performing dramatic readings of plays. Merla's sister, Devera Kettner, was an actress (under the screen name Devera Burton), and her brother Sandor Burstein was a doctor. Merla Zellerbach took the last name of her first husband, Stephen Zellerbach (whose great-grandfather started the Zellerbach Paper Company in 1870, later known as Crown-Zellerbach Corporation) and kept the name the rest of her life, since she was known by it professionally.\n\nIn the 1960s, diagnosed with breast cancer, she had a double mastectomy. Merla spoke about it openly, as well as being a longtime supporter of breast cancer research. Long time friend and philanthropist Roselyne \"Cissie\" Swig, whose late husband was chairman of the Fairmont Hotel Management Co., said Zellerbach has spent years doing good works for friends and the community, often in understated ways. \"Whatever she's done, she's done it with integrity.\"\n\nLois Lehrman, publisher of the Nob Hill Gazette, called Zellerbach \"the consummate lady\" and said it was invaluable to have someone around who knows San Francisco \"backwards and forwards, from the inside out.\" \n\nZellerbach died at age 84 in the Presidio Terrace house she occupied for 60 years. She was survived by her husband, the late Lee Munson, brother Sandor Burstein and his wife, Elizabeth, son Gary Zellerbach, daughter-in-law Linda Zellerbach, and two grandchildren, Laura and Randy Zellerbach. She was predeceased by her sister, Devera Kettner.\n\nZellerbach's San Francisco Chronicle column, My Fair City, ran for 23 years, from 1962 to 1985. The columns were lighthearted and bright, focused on a different subject each week. Composed primarily of quotes from locals (celebrities, socialites, politicians, and “every day folk”), she subtly explored and exposed truths about human nature. In the late 1960s, she appeared on a local ABC TV game show moderated by Jim Lange called \"Oh My Word,\" in which panelists (Zellerbach, June Lockhart, Kathryn Ish, Scott Beach and Paul Speegle) offered definitions of obscure words to contestants who had to guess the right meaning to win.\nShe left The Chronicle in 1985 and a decade later joined the Nob Hill Gazette as Editor, staying until 2007. She also wrote its Let's Dish column that reported on the San Francisco social scene. The Friends of the San Francisco Public Library made her a literary laureate in 2010. At 80, she re-energized her career, launching a series of successful mystery novels. Her earlier books painted psychological portraits. The new Hallie Marsh Mystery series, however, reflected Merla's foremost concern: death as an injustice. In the series, she established her own alter-ego. Hallie Marsh became an accidental detective after breast cancer led her to recreate herself. Surrounded by medical expertise and malfeasance, Hallie evolved novel by novel, as the mystery within began to reflect the mystery without, until she realizes her calling: to do good. After all, charity is large, public, and blessed; crime is small, secret, and destructive. Hallie persists in her search for the killer, by sifting through the secrets of the A-list set she was born to.\n\nZellerbach became involved in philanthropy in her early 20s, first as Queen of the Mardi Gras (a benefit for the Little Jim Club of Children's Hospital), later volunteering for Planned Parenthood, \nthe American Cancer Society and the Red Cross. She founded SF Sponsors and Conard House, which helps people self-manage mental illness, co-chaired the annual Beaux Arts Ball, and was a board member of the San Francisco Art Institute, Patrons of Art & Music, the Muscular Dystrophy Association and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. She was named the Northern California chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation's 2012 Champion of Hope, and in 2014, the Junior League honored her with their “Women at the Center Honors (WATCH)” award for her major impact on philanthropy and volunteerism in the Bay Area. \nAfter her death, she was the subject of increasing national exposure, public comments from Sen. Feinstein, Episcopal Bishop Bill Swing and many others, editorials, and a new legislative push in California to legalize “death with dignity.”\n\n2015 - 21 HUNTINGTON COURT, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2014 - THE A-LIST MURDERS, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2013 - DYING TO DANCE, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2012 - LOVE TO DIE FOR, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2010 - THE MISSING MOTHER, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2009 - MYSTERY OF THE MERMAID, Firefall Editions (hardcover); \n2009 - SECRETS IN TIME, Firefall Editions (hardcover & paperback);\n1990 - RITTENHOUSE SQUARE, Random House (hardcover), Doubleday Book Club, \nNY Times Recommended Reading List; \n1989 - SUGAR, Ballantine; \n1987 - LOVE THE GIVER, Ballantine; \n1987 - CAVETT MANOR, Ballantine; \n1986 - THE WILDES OF NOB HILL, Ballantine; \n1961 - LOVE IN A DARK HOUSE; Doubleday.\n\n1996 - \"The Allergy Sourcebook\" (TAS), Lowell House (Division of McGraw Hill); \n1998 - \"TAS\", 2nd Edition; \n2000 - \"TAS\", 3rd Edition; \n1984 - \"Detox: A Successful & Supportive Program for Freeing Your Body form the Physical and Psychological Effects of: Chemical Pollutants, Junk Food Additives, Sugar, Nicotine, Drugs, Alcohol, Caffeine, Prescription and Nonprescription Medications, and Other Environmental Toxins.\"; Tarcher/Houghton-Mifflin (w/Phyllis Saifer, MD); \n1983 - \"The Type 1/Type 2 Allergy Relief Program\"; Tarcher/Houghton-Mifflin \n(w/Alan Scott Levin, MD).\n\n1991 - THE STANFORD CENTURY; contributing author\n\nSan Francisco, USA government declares November 2 as Merla Zellerbach Day.\n\nCosmopolitan, Travel & Leisure, Reader's Digest, Prevention, Women's World, This \nWeek, Saturday Evening Post, and others; \n1989-99; Cover stories: SF Focus, Gentry, Nob Hill Gazette, Where Magazine; \n1985-91; Featured articles (8) in Town & Country.\n\nPublished Interviews included:\nShirley Temple Black, Yves St. Laurent, Andy Warhol, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, Bob Hope, Hugh Hefner, Bennett Cerf, Joe Montana and Helen Gurley Brown. 9, 10\n\n2007 – 2014; Editor Emerita and staff writer for Nob Hill Gazette \n1995 - 2007; Editor, Nob Hill Gazette \n1975-93; Enrichment Lecturer and writing instructor on cruise ships \n1965-70; Panelist on ABC-TV's OH MY WORD, w/June Lockhart \n1962-85; Featured columnist, MY FAIR CITY, S.F. Chronicle\n\n2014 - Junior League “Women at the Center Honors (WATCH)”;\n2012 - Northern California chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation's Champion of Hope – Community Leader; \n2010 - Compassion & Choices Hugh Gallagher Award;\n2010 – Named “Literary Laureate” by The Friends of the San Francisco Public Library;\n2007 - Mayor Gavin Newsom Proclamation of Merla Zellerbach Day, October 1; \n2000 - California State Assembly Certificate of Recognition; \n2000 - US Senate Certificate of Commendation; \n2000-14: Listed (Marquis) Who's Who In America; Who's Who In Entertainment; \n1999 - New York Times rave review for Rittenhouse Square; \n1999 - Wellness.Books.com Reviewer's Choice Award (The Allergy Sourcebook); \n1996 - Governor Pete Wilson commendation award; \n1994 - Where Magazine International Achievement Award for Best Article Writing; \n1983 - Mayor Dianne Feinstein Proclamation of Merla Zellerbach Day, November 1.\n\nQueen of SF Mardi Gras, chair Beaux Arts Ball, founder SF Sponsors, The Singles Organization; volunteer at Planned Parenthood, The American Friends Service Committee, The Red Cross; trustee Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, board member of Compassion & Choices\n\nSan Francisco's Grant grammar school, Lowell High School (Student body VP), Stanford University\n\n1. Merla Zellerbach, S.F. writer and civic leader, dies \nSan Francisco Chronicle, Saturday, December 27, 2014 \nby Leah Garchik\n\n2. Merla Zellerbach's Career In High Society \nSan Francisco Chronicle, Sunday, November 23, 2008 \nby Carolyne Zinko\n\n3. Merla Zellerbach: A struggle to have 'death with dignity’\nSan Francisco Chronicle, Sunday, January 25, 2015\nby Leah Garchik\n\n4.\n\n5. Happy Endings \nStanford Magazine, November/December, 2012 \nby Elihu Blotnick\n\n6. Merla-Zellerbach-Mysteries\n\n7. Letters to editor, Celebrating life of Merla Zellerbach\nSan Francisco Chronicle, January 31, 2015\n\n8. Merla Zellerbach - author - (1930-2014)\n\n9. Nob Hill Gazette\n\n10. Town & Country Magazine\n\n11. Miss Bigelow: Choices fundraiser shadowed by loss of Merla Zellerbach\nSan Francisco Chronicle, February 26, 2015\nby Catherine Bigelow\n\n12. Why “Right-to-Die” Is 2016′s Most Consequential Bill, Calbuzz.com, March 20, 2015, editorial\n"}
{"id": "2123936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2123936", "title": "Merritt A. Edson", "text": "Merritt A. Edson\n\nMajor General Merritt Austin Edson (April 25, 1897 – August 14, 1955), known as \"Red Mike\", was a general in the United States Marine Corps. Among the decorations he received were the Medal of Honor, two Navy Crosses, the Silver Star, and two Legions of Merit. He is best known by Marines for the defense of Lunga Ridge during the Guadalcanal Campaign in World War II.\n\nHe received a commission as a second lieutenant in the Marines in October 1917, and served in France and Germany in World War I. After the war he held several positions until going to flight school in 1922. After graduating flight school and being designated a Naval Aviator, he performed several assignments in Central America and China. It was in Central America where he received his first Navy Cross and the Nicaraguan Medal of Merit with Silver Star.\n\nWhen World War II started Edson was sent as the Commanding officer of the Marine Raiders and earned his second Navy Cross on Tulagi. When his unit was sent to fight on Guadalcanal, Edson led his men in fighting for which he would later receive the Medal of Honor.\n\nAfter World War II Edson held several commands until retiring from the Marine Corps August 1, 1947. After retirement he had several jobs including the Director of the National Rifle Association.\n\nEdson was born in Rutland, Vermont and grew up in Chester. After graduating from Chester High School in 1915, he attended the University of Vermont for two years. On June 27, 1916 he left college as a member of the First Infantry Regiment, Vermont National Guard and was sent to Eagle Pass, Texas, for duty on the Mexican border. He returned to the University in September 1916, but joined the Marine Corps Reserve on June 26, the following year.\n\nHe was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps on October 9, 1917 and in September of the next year he sailed for France with the 11th Marines. This regiment saw no combat, but during the last six months of his European tour, he commanded Company D, 15th Separate Marine Battalion, which had been organized for the express purpose of assisting in the holding of a plebiscite in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. Owing to the failure of the United States to ratify the Treaty of Versailles, this mission, however, was never carried out.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, he was assigned to several positions that would qualify him for the high commands he was to hold in later years. He was promoted to first lieutenant on June 4, 1920 and spent two years at Marine Barracks, Quantico, Virginia, as the Adjutant-Registrar of the Marine Corps Institute, after which he was sent on a short tour in Louisiana guarding the mail. His interest in military aviation prompted him to apply for flight training at NAS Pensacola, Florida and he earned his gold wings as a Naval Aviator in 1922. Soon after, he was ordered to the Marine Air Station at Guam where he had his introduction to the semitropical islands of the Marianas with which his name was later to become so closely linked.\n\nUpon returning to the United States in 1925, he first took an extensive course in advanced aviation tactics with the U.S. Army Air Service at Kelly Field, Texas, and then attended the Company Officers' Course at Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia. He graduated with the highest grades ever attained by any student up to that time. For physical reasons, however, he had to give up his flying status in 1927 and continue his career as a ground officer. He was then assigned to duty as Ordnance Officer at the Philadelphia Navy Yard.\n\nLate in the same year, he was ordered to sea duty as Commanding Officer of the Marine Detachment on the cruiser and was promoted to captain on December 21, 1927. During service in Central American waters, his detachment was ashore in Nicaragua during the period February 1928 – 1929. In command of 160 hand picked and specially trained Marines, he fought twelve separate engagements with the Sandino-led bandits and denied them the use of the Poteca and Coco River valleys. Here, he received his first Navy Cross for actions in which \"his exhibition of coolness, intrepidity, and dash so inspired his men that superior forces of bandits were driven from their prepared positions and severe losses inflicted upon them.\" From a grateful Nicaraguan government, he was also awarded the Nicaraguan Medal of Merit with Silver Star.\n\nIn September 1929, he returned to the United States and was assigned as tactics instructor to fledgling Marine lieutenants at The Basic School in Philadelphia. Upon detachment from that duty, he became Ordnance and War Plans Officer at the Philadelphia Depot of Supplies for the next four years.\n\nThis ordnance duty was not new to him since he had been closely associated with the development of small arms marksmanship within the Marine Corps. In 1921, he had been a firing member of the winning Marine Corps Team at the National Matches at Camp Perry, Ohio. In 1927, 1930, and 1931, he served with the rifle and pistol teams as assistant coach. During the regional matches of 1932 and 1933, he acted as team coach and captain, respectively. Upon the resumption of the National Matches in 1935, he was captain of the Marine Corps national rifle and pistol teams of 1935 and 1936, winning the national trophies in both years.\n\nAfter short tours at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island and Marine Corps Headquarters in Washington, D.C., he was enrolled in the Senior Officers' Course at the Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia in 1936. He was promoted to major on February 9, 1936. Foreign duty as operations officer with the 4th Marines in Shanghai, China from 1937 to 1939, enabled him to observe closely Japanese military operations.\n\nHis second tour of duty at Marine Corps Headquarters began in May 1939 when, as Inspector of Target Practice, he was in a position to stress the importance of every Marine being highly skilled with his own individual arm. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel on April 1, 1940.\n\nIn June 1941, he was again transferred to Quantico, to command the 1st Battalion, 5th Marines, which was redesignated the 1st Separate Battalion in January 1942. The training exercises which he conducted in the succeeding months with Navy high speed transports (APDs) led to the organization of the 1st Marine Raider Battalion in early 1942. This unit was the prototype of every Marine Raider battalion formed throughout the war. He was promoted to colonel on May 21, 1942.\nColonel Edson's introduction to the Pacific theater of operations began with the overseas training of his raider command in American Samoa. On August 7, 1942, his raiders, together with the 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines, landed on Tulagi, British Solomon Islands. Two days of severe fighting secured this strategic island in the Battle of Tulagi. After his battalion relocated to Guadalcanal they conducted raids on Savo Island and at Tasimboko, on Guadalcanal. He was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Navy Cross for his successful conduct of the Tulagi operation.\n\nThe battle he is best known for was the defense of Lunga Ridge on Guadalcanal September 12–14, 1942. His Raider Battalion, with two companies of the 1st Parachute Battalion attached, were sent to a ridge line a short distance south of Henderson Field. Here, they were supposed to get a short rest but Japanese forces unexpectedly attacked the position on the first evening, penetrating the left center of his line of resistance, forcing a withdrawal to a reserve position.\nApproximately 800 Marines withstood the repeated assaults of more than 3,000 Japanese on the \"Bloody Ridge\", as it came to be called. To the men of the 1st Raider Battalion, however, who sustained 256 casualties, it became \"Edson's Ridge\", in high honor of the officer who \"was all over the place, encouraging, cajoling, and correcting as he continually exposed himself to enemy fire.\" His nickname, \"Red Mike\", originating from his red beard worn in Nicaragua days, was also his code name during this battle. From then on he was known by all as \"Red Mike\". It was for this action—the Battle of Edson's Ridge—that he received the Medal of Honor.\n\nAfter Edson's Ridge, he was placed in command of the 5th Marine Regiment. In this capacity, he was one of the primary leaders in the Matanikau actions from September 23 to October 9, 1942. He also commanded the 5th Marines during the Battle for Henderson Field and until the regiment was withdrawn from Guadalcanal, along with the rest of the 1st Marine Division, in November 1942. Shortly after, another officer stated \"that officers and men would willingly follow him anywhere—the only problem was to keep up with him\". A combat correspondent testified that \"he is not a fierce Marine. In fact he appears almost shy. Yet Colonel Edson is probably among the five finest combat commanders in all the United States armed forces.\" It was also said that he was not readily given to a show of emotion but when his personal runner of several months' service was killed at the Matanikau River on Guadalcanal, witnesses said he \"cried like a baby\", and later stated that the man could never be replaced.\n\n In August 1943, he was named Chief of Staff of the 2nd Marine Division, which was then preparing for the invasion of Tarawa. He prepared an estimate of the situation for this operation which proved to be surprisingly accurate and has since become a classic in Marine Corps military literature. For this action, he received the Legion of Merit and was promoted to brigadier general (December 1, 1943). Later, he was appointed Assistant Division Commander of the 2d Marine Division and participated in this capacity in the capture of Saipan and Tinian. The Silver Star was awarded him for these operations.\n\nBrigadier General Edson became Chief of Staff, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific and in October 1944 was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a second Legion of Merit. Duty as Commanding General, Service Command, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific, rounded out 44 months of continuous service in the war zone. When a young officer asked him when he might expect to be rotated back to the United States, BGen Edson replied, \"When the war's over; when the job's done.\"\n\nIn December 1945, he was assigned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and, in February 1947, to Marine Corps Headquarters. Retirement from active duty came at the age of 50 years and after more than 30 years in the military service of his country. He was promoted to major general at the time of his retirement on August 1, 1947.\n\nFollowing retirement from the Marine Corps he became the first Commissioner of the Vermont State Police, organizing the force partially from an older organization of motor vehicle officers. He established the organization on a semi-military basis which has since been adopted by other states. He served as president of the National Rifle Association 1949–1950.\n\nIn July 1951, after returning to Washington, D.C. he became Executive Director of the National Rifle Association where his major efforts in that post were stimulating the interest of Americans in rifle marksmanship. Concurrently, he campaigned vigorously for a Marine Corps adequate both in size and strength for its many commitments.\n\nHe died on August 14, 1955, in Washington, D.C., by his own hand, having committed suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning in the garage next to his Washington, D.C. home while serving in the NRA post. At the time of his death, in addition to his duties at the Rifle Association, he was the Navy representative on the Defense Advisory Committee on Prisoner of War Problems. This group recommended the standards of conduct for American prisoners of war that were later adopted and issued as the Code of Conduct for all American servicemen.\n\nHe was buried at Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nMajor General Edson's decorations included: \n\nThe President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the MEDAL OF HONOR to\n\nCOLONEL MERRITT A. EDSON\nUNITED STATES MARINE CORPS\n\nfor service as set forth in the following CITATION:\n/S/Franklin D. Roosevelt\n\nCitation:\n\nThe Navy Cross is presented to Merritt Austin Edson, Captain, U.S. Marine Corps, for extraordinary heroism on August 7, 1928, while in command of a Marine patrol on the Coco River, en route to Poteca. Captain Edson upon encountering a force of bandits entrenched upon both sides of the river, personally led his advance guard against the enemy, engaging in hand-to-hand conflict with them, and by his exhibition of coolness, intrepidity, and dash, so inspired his men that the superior force of bandits were driven from their prepared position, and severe losses inflicted upon them.\n\nCitation:\n\nThe President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting a Gold Star in lieu of a Second Award of the Navy Cross to Merritt Austin Edson (0–257), Colonel, U.S. Marine Corps, for extraordinary heroism and devotion to duty while serving as Commanding Officer of the Tulagi Combat Group during the landing assault and seizure of enemy Japanese-held Tulagi Island, British Solomon Islands, 7 to August 9, 1942. In personal command of the FIRST Marine Raider Battalion during the initial operation, Colonel Edson advanced the attack of his Battalion and its supporting units with such skill, courage and aggressiveness that he was an inspiration to the entire Combat Group and was directly responsible for the capture of Tulagi Island. His gallant conduct throughout this hazardous action was in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.\n\nIn addition to the Medal of Honor and his other military awards, Edson also received several marksmanship awards including the Distinguished Rifleman Badge in 1927.\n\nA part of Camp Pendleton's Stuart Mesa area was named Edson Range in his honor in 1964. Edson range was built to replace the one at Camp Matthews in La Jolla. The range is used for teaching marksmanship training to recruits from Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego. On October 28, 2008 more than 200 volunteers unveiled a monument in honor of Major General Edson during a ceremony at Edson Range. The volunteers used rocks and recycled [ammunition] stripper clips and brass shells from throughout Edson Range in the cement when making the monument.\n\n was a of the United States Navy. \"Edson\" was laid down December 3, 1956 by Bath Iron Works Corporation, Bath, Maine and launched January 4, 1958. The ship was sponsored by Mrs. M. A. Edson, widow of General Edson. It was commissioned November 7, 1958, with Commander Thomas J. Moriarty in command.\n\nEdson hall, the location of the Communications School at Marine Corps Base Quantico in Virginia, is dedicated to Edson as a result of his role as a vocal proponent of the criticality of communications in combat.\n"}
{"id": "45033172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45033172", "title": "Murder of April Lacy", "text": "Murder of April Lacy\n\nApril Dawn Lacy (nicknamed as \"Brush Girl\") was a previously unidentified American homicide victim who was discovered in 1996 in Decatur, Texas. She was identified in 1998 after her face was reconstructed and dental information was compared between both subjects. Although her body was identified, her murder remains unsolved. The circumstances surrounding April's murder are unknown, although she is believed to have run away from home and may have worked as a prostitute.\n\nApril was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. She grew up in a poor family who used both drugs and alcohol and was often estranged from them, as she frequently stayed at a friend's house. She had a younger brother who had since been removed from her parents' custody. April had a dysfunctional relationship with her parents, who allowed her to use substances such as cigarettes at a young age. The family reportedly lived in cheap hotels and rummaged through garbage for aluminum cans and other items to provide money for food and drugs. It is also believed that her mother, Jacqueline, had coerced April into prostitution and shoplifting to provide for her cocaine addiction, although she claims her daughter was not involved with sex trafficking. When she failed to succeed with these tasks, April claimed that she was physically abused. April ran away from home after an argument with her mother, who refused to converse with her daughter about an unknown reason, presumably due to conflict between her parents. Her mother Jacqueline reported her missing on October 3, 1996, which she claimed was the day the argument took place. Her father, Dale, also reported her missing three months later.\n\nSome members of the police force have stated that her mother may be more knowledgeable about the murder than she has provided, as there is strong evidence that Jacqueline had served as a pimp for her daughter. By the state of April's remains, it is also believed that she had been missing for longer than reported, as it appeared that she had died at least a week before, instead of five days.\n\nOn October 8, 1996 a farmer discovered a young woman's nude body in a pile of dead branches outside Decatur, Texas. When police officers came to the scene, it was presumed that she had been strangled and then dragged, by the arm, to the pile of brush, judging by the position of her body. Her body had decomposed to a point where she was not in a recognizable state, which often causes problems with body identification. Investigators noted that the victim had dyed her hair blond, bit her nails, and was between 5<nowiki>'4\" to 5'5\"</nowiki> tall at a weight of 110 to 130 pounds. She also lacked any visible identifying features, such as scars or tattoos. A forensic dentist examined her teeth and concluded she was around 14 when she was murdered, although initial reports stated she was between 20 and 40.\n\nBecause the girl remained unidentified for some time, the officer investigating the case dubbed her as \"Brush Girl.\" Authorities attempted to identify her body by using her physical description to match to missing persons, who were ruled out of the case. Because her body was found near the border between Texas and Oklahoma, it was presumed she may have been native to Oklahoma City or possibly Dallas, Texas.\n\nApril's face was reconstructed by forensic artist Karen T. Taylor to aid in her future identification. Authorities interviewed April's parents about the circumstances of her disappearance and showed them the sketch of the unidentified girl, which bore a strong resemblance. The Lacy family was reportedly in denial about the possibility that their daughter was murdered, as they \"wanted more proof\" than a match of dental records, which was made after the teeth of the victim and X-rays taken of April's teeth were compared. Additionally, comparison of sinus passages also matched between the subjects, but did not convince her family. DNA was eventually compared and matched.\n\nIt is believed that April Lacy was murdered by a serial killer who had preyed on prostitutes in the same area. There was also a possibility that she was a victim of the Redhead murders, although her murder was nearly a decade after the spree began. Authorities have also traced leads across the United States and Canada with no results.\n"}
{"id": "11468601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11468601", "title": "Niccolò Fortebraccio", "text": "Niccolò Fortebraccio\n\nNiccolò Fortebraccio (1375–1435), also known as Niccolò della Stella, was an Italian condottiero.\n\nBorn in Sant'Angelo in Vado, he was the son of Stella, sister of Braccio da Montone. His half-brother Oddo and his cousin Carlo were also condottieri.\n\nIn 1426 and 1429, he is mentioned at the service of the Republic of Florence. On the latter occasion he was sent against Volterra and Lucca, but, together with Guidantonio da Montefeltro, he was defeated by Niccolò Piccinino in 1430. The following year Pope Eugene IV ordered him to recapture Città di Castello, but Fortebraccio was pushed back. Despite this setback, Eugene made him gonfaloniere of the Papal Army with the task to halt emperor Sigismund's march in Tuscany and to counter the Prefetti di Vico in the Latium. However, as Fortebraccio pursued mostly his personal interests, especially regarding the possession of Città di Castello, he was fired.\n\nHaving received a \"condotta\" by the Visconti of Milan, in 1434 he moved against Rome. Giovanni Vitelleschi was sent against him, but as he was called to quench a revolt in Romagna, Fortebraccio managed to capture Tivoli. Eugene IV fled from Rome, a Republic, under the Colonna aegis, being established in the city. Considering too great for him the lordship of Rome, Fortebraccio moved away. Escaped from a plot against him, he conquered Assisi and married Ludovica da Battifolle.\n\nAfter failing to adhere to the general truce which had momentarily ended the wars in Italy, a league was formed against Fortebraccio, under the \"capitano generale\" Francesco Sforza. On 15 August 1435 Niccolò defeated and took as prisoner Leone Sforza, but on the following 23 August Alessandro Sforza routed him at the siege of Fiordimonte, near Camerino. Wounded, blocked under his horse's corpse, Fortebraccio was abandoned to his agony by Sforza, until he died-killed by Cristoforo da Tolentino.\n\n"}
{"id": "29098971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29098971", "title": "North Carolina State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences", "text": "North Carolina State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences\n\nNorth Carolina State University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS) is the fourth largest college in the university and one of the largest colleges of its kind in the nation, with nearly 3,400 students pursuing associate, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees and 1,300 on-campus and 700 off-campus faculty and staff members.\n\nWith headquarters in Raleigh, North Carolina, the college includes 16 academic departments, the North Carolina Agricultural Research Service and the North Carolina Cooperative Extension Service. The college dean is Dr. Richard Linton.\n\nThe research service is the state's principal agency of agricultural and life sciences research, with close to 600 projects related to more than 70 agricultural commodities, related agribusinesses and life science industries. Scientists work not only on the college campus in Raleigh but also at 18 agricultural research stations and 10 field laboratories across the state.\n\nThe extension service is the largest outreach effort at North Carolina State University, with local centers serving all 100 of North Carolina's counties as well as the Eastern Band of the Cherokee Indians. Cooperative Extension's educational programs, carried out by state specialists and county agents, focus on agriculture, food and 4-H youth development. About 43,000 volunteers and advisory leaders also contribute to Extension's efforts.\n\nThe college staffs the Plants for Human Health Institute at the N.C. Research Campus in Kannapolis with faculty from the departments of horticultural science; food, bioprocessing and nutrition sciences; plant biology; genetics; and agricultural and resource economics.\n\nThe college's Department of Plant Pathology helps sponsor the Bailey Memorial Tour each year. This tour is offered to prospective agriculture students and gives them a broad based taste of the work of agricultural pathology, and is named after Dr. Jack Bailey, late pioneering Professor of Plant Pathology.\n\nThe college has the following departments:\n\nCALS offers more than 60 bachelor's, master's, Ph.D. and associate degree programs in a wide array of disciplines. Undergraduate majors are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23674107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23674107", "title": "Offences Against the Person Act 1875", "text": "Offences Against the Person Act 1875\n\nThe Offences against the Person Act 1875 (38 & 39 Vict. c. 94) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it then was). Its purpose was to extend the scope of sexual offences against children.\n\nThis section repealed sections 50 and 51 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 with savings.\n\nThis section replaced section 50 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (which created a felony in relation only to girls under 10).\n\nWhen the Act was repealed, it was in turn replaced by section 4 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 (increasing the age to 13).\n\nThis section replaced section 51 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (which created a misdemeanour in relation to girls between 10 and 12).\n\nWhen the Act was repealed, it was turn replaced by section 5(1) of the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 (changing the age range to 13 to 16).\n\nThis section provided that the Act was to be construed as though it and the Offences against the Person Act 1861 (as amended by this Act) were one Act. Its effect was that the definition of carnal knowledge provided by section 63 of that Act applied to the offences created by sections 3 and 4 of this Act.\n\nThis section provided that the Act did not extend to Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "18564154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18564154", "title": "Orphan", "text": "Orphan\n\nAn orphan (from the ) is someone who has lost either or both parents, whose parents are unknown, or have permanently abandoned them.\n\nWhen referring to animals, only the mother's condition is usually relevant (i.e. if the female parent has gone, the offspring is an orphan, regardless of the father's condition).\n\nVarious groups use different definitions to identify orphans. One legal definition used in the United States is a minor bereft through \"death or disappearance of, abandonment or desertion by, or separation or loss from, both parents\".\n\nIn the common use, an orphan does not have any surviving parent to care for them. However, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS), and other groups label any child that has lost one parent as an orphan. In this approach, a \"maternal orphan\" is a child whose mother has died, a \"paternal orphan\" is a child whose father has died, and a \"double orphan\" is a child who has lost both parents. This contrasts with the older use of \"half-orphan\" to describe children that had lost only one parent.\n\nOrphans are relatively rare in developed countries, because most children can expect both of their parents to survive their childhood. Much higher numbers of orphans exist in war-torn nations such as Afghanistan.\n\n\nFamous orphans include world leaders such as Nelson Mandela, Alexander Hamilton, Aaron Burr, Andrew Jackson; the Hebrew prophet Moses and the Muslim prophet Muhammad; writers such as Edgar Allan Poe, and Leo Tolstoy; athletes such as Aaron Hernandez or Jacques Villeneuve. The American orphan Henry Darger portrayed the horrible conditions of his orphanage in his art work. Other notable orphans include entertainment greats such as Louis Armstrong, Marilyn Monroe, Babe Ruth, Ray Charles and Frances McDormand, and innumerable fictional characters in literature and comics.\n\nWars and great epidemics, such as AIDS, have created many orphans. The Second World War, with its massive numbers of deaths and population movements, created large numbers of orphans in many countries—with estimates for Europe ranging from 1,000,000 to 13,000,000. Judt (2006) estimates there were 9,000 orphaned children in Czechoslovakia, 60,000 in the Netherlands 300,000 in Poland and 200,000 in Yugoslavia, plus many more in the Soviet Union, Germany, Italy and elsewhere.\n\nOrphaned characters are extremely common as literary protagonists, especially in children's and fantasy literature. The lack of parents leaves the characters to pursue more interesting and adventurous lives, by freeing them from familial obligations and controls, and depriving them of more prosaic lives. It creates characters that are self-contained and introspective and who strive for affection. Orphans can metaphorically search for self-understanding through attempting to know their roots. Parents can also be allies and sources of aid for children, and removing the parents makes the character's difficulties more severe. Parents, furthermore, can be irrelevant to the theme a writer is trying to develop, and orphaning the character frees the writer from the necessity to depict such an irrelevant relationship; if one parent-child relationship is important, removing the other parent prevents complicating the necessary relationship. All these characteristics make orphans attractive characters for authors.\n\nOrphans are common in fairy tales, such as most variants of \"Cinderella\".\n\nA number of well-known authors have written books featuring orphans. Examples from classic literature include Charlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre\", Charles Dickens's \"Oliver Twist\", Mark Twain's \"Tom Sawyer\", L. M. Montgomery's \"Anne of Green Gables\", Thomas Hardy's \"Jude the Obscure\", and J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\". Among more recent authors, A. J. Cronin, Lemony Snicket, A. F. Coniglio, Roald Dahl and J. K. Rowling, as well as some less well-known authors of famous orphans like Little Orphan Annie have used orphans as major characters. One recurring storyline has been the relationship that the orphan can have with an adult from outside their immediate family as seen in Lyle Kessler's play \"Orphans\".\n\nOrphans are especially common as characters in comic books. Almost all the most popular heroes are orphans: Superman, Batman, Spider-Man, Robin, The Flash, Captain Marvel, Captain America, and Green Arrow were all orphaned. Orphans are also very common among villains: Bane, Catwoman, and Magneto are examples. Lex Luthor, Deadpool, and Carnage can also be included on this list, though they killed one or both of their parents. Supporting characters befriended by the heroes are also often orphans, including the Newsboy Legion and Rick Jones.\n\nAll of the orphan children from the 1936 \"Color Classic\", \"Christmas Comes But Once a Year\" produced by Fleischer Studios, were voiced by Mae Questel.\n\nMany religious texts, including the Bible and the Quran, contain the idea that helping and defending orphans is a very important and God-pleasing matter. The religious leaders Moses and Muhammad were orphaned as children. Several scriptural citations describe how orphans should be treated:\n\nBible\n\n\nQu'ran\n\n\n\nHenry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus\nConcise Oxford Dictionary, 6th edition \"a child bereaved of parents\" with bereaved meaning (of death etc.) deprived of a relation\nUSCIS definition for immigration purposes \nUNAIDS Global Report 2008\nThe Society for the Relief of Half-Orphan and Destitute Children\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38983565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38983565", "title": "Prosecution of gender-targeted crimes", "text": "Prosecution of gender-targeted crimes\n\nProsecution of gender-targeted crimes is the legal proceedings to prosecute crimes such as rape and domestic violence. The earliest documented prosecution of gender-based/targeted crimes is from 1474 when Sir Peter von Hagenbach was convicted for rapes committed by his troops. However, the trial was unsuccessful in indicting Sir von Hagenbach with the charge of rape because the war in which the rapes occurred was \"undeclared\" and thus the rapes were only considered illegal. Gender-targeted crimes continued to be prosecuted, but it was not until after World War II when an international criminal tribunal- the International Military Tribunal for the Far East (Tokyo Tribunal)- were officers charged for being responsible of the gender-targeted crimes (particularly rape) and other crimes against humanity. Despite the various rape charges, the Charter of the Tokyo Tribunal did not make references to rape, and rape was considered as subordinate to other war crimes. This is also the situation for other tribunals that followed, but with the establishments of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), there was more attention to the prosecution of gender-targeted crimes with each of the statutes explicitly referring to rape and other forms of gender-targeted violence.\n\nDomestic violence covers a wide range of gender-targeted crimes such as rape and honor killings. As many women, who make up a majority of the victims, deny they are facing domestic violence, there are not enough reliable statistics on Domestic violence. Due to the lack of information, violence against women is often dismissed as a \"private\" matter and no legal action is done.\n\nDespite the reforms that will be mentioned in the \"Rape\" section below, there is still a continuous debate over how the trials of the crimes should be conducted and over the effectiveness of the prosecution. The Violence Against Women Act, which was passed in 1994, paved the way in providing services and resources for women facing abuse and other forms of violence. However, there are limits on gender-targeted crimes reaching the Supreme Court and many are given to the state governments to oversee.\n\nA study in the UK conducted from 2011 to 2012 found that false claims of rape and domestic violence are uncommon. This notion of frequent false accusations came about after the police and investigators began to follow an \"over-cautious approach\" when addressing reports of domestic violence. However, the study showed there were only a few false allegations during seventeen months over 2011-2012. The study revealed that during the seventeen months, there were 5,651 prosecutions for rape and 111,891 for domestic violence in England and Wales, and in the same timespan, there were thirty-five prosecutions for making false allegations of rape, six prosecutions for false allegations of domestic violence, and three for false allegations of both crimes. Following the study and the eleven percent increase of reported cases of domestic violence in the last three months of 2012, there have been enhancements in the handling of the reported crimes with random checks of cases to ensure the correct handling of the prosecution of the cases.\n\nBefore there were reforms in rape laws and special units to prosecute rape crimes, rape was a difficult case to prosecute as a crime; this is due to issue of consent, the need to provide sufficient evidence to charge the accused, and sometime biased cultural depictions of sexuality and gender. The prosecution largely relies on organizations, advocacy groups, or social movements such as the Anti-rape movement in order to be effective. The difficulties can also bring negative consequences upon the victims. For example in the United States, a study in the 1980s found that the rape victims who went through the prosecution system had a slower recovery process than those who were not prosecuted.\n\nIn the United States, the late 1980s saw a nationwide movement of women's groups lobbying for reforms in rape laws. Their main goal was to prosecute rape in the similar manner that other crimes are prosecuted by focusing not on the victim's reputation or behavior but on the unlawful acts perpetrated by the offender. The movement also urged to have new laws improve the treatment of rape victims, and it hoped to have an increase in the number of reports of rape. The movement eventually led to rape law reforms for all fifty states. States varied in their reforms, but the common changes that resulted from the reforms were:\n\n\nIn India after the 2012 Delhi gang rape case amendments were made to the laws concerning rape with more specific protocols towards the trial proceedings. The new law, Criminal Law (Amendment) Bill, 2013, also defines new crimes such as stalking and voyeurism, expands the definition of rape, and brings higher sentences for punishment of the offenders (such as the death penalty for repeated offenders and for cases resulting in the victim's death). The law was passed by India's Parliament on March 2013, and with the passing of this law, it is also a crime for the police to refuse to open cases for sexual attack allegations.\n\nMarital rape is a form of sexual abuse and domestic violence. It is today increasingly criminalized around the world, but not all countries recognize it as a crime. Several countries in Eastern Europe and Scandinavia made spousal rape illegal before 1970, but other countries in Western Europe and the English-speaking Western World outlawed it much later, mostly in the 1980s and 1990s. In many countries of the world marital rape laws are very new, having been enacted during the 2000s. In 2006, the UN Secretary General found that: \"Marital rape may be prosecuted in at least 104 States. Of these, 32 have made marital rape a specific criminal offence, while the remaining 74 do not exempt marital rape from general rape provisions. Four States criminalize marital rape only when the spouses are judicially separated.\" Since 2006 several other countries have made marital rape illegal.\n\nIn December 1993, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights published the \"Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women\". This establishes marital rape as a human rights violation.\n\nThe idea that marriage grants either spouse's consent to sex formed the basis for the reason why marital rape is not a universally accepted crime. Traditional perceptions of marriage and of women contribute to the reasons why marital rape is not universally identified as crime. Wives were regarded as the property of the husband, and therefore the husband was not responsible for a crime when he raped his wife since he did not infringe on another man's property rights. In the early 18th century of England, Blackstone's common law united the husband and the wife into a single legal entity upon marriage with the husband having the control of this entity. Although this view evolved to having independent rights for the wife, the concept of marital rape not as a crime went on with few challenges. In 1958, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica's\" definition of rape stated as \"A husband cannot commit rape upon his wife unless she is legally separated from him.\" \n\nIn the United States, criminalization of marital rape started in the mid-1970s, but it was not until the 1990s when action in regards to marital rape was followed through. Although all fifty states recognized marital rape as a crime on July 5, 1993, not all states treat marital rape the same as other forms of rape (see Marital rape#United States).\n\nIn South Asia, marital rape falls under Family law rather than criminal law. Marital rape cannot be prosecuted in India and Sri Lanka, unless the couple is separated. The religious laws tend to undermine the legal recognition of marital rape.\n\nThere is very poor data on the practice of Honor killing (also known as honor violence) due to the fact that many do not get reported or happen in remote areas or are classified as a different form of crime. This is the situation for the international data and American data, but for American data, no national or state agency collects data on honor violence. However, the practice of honor killings do occur with the family committing acts of honor killing believing that the daughter has become too Westernized and/or after she has refused to follow traditional customs such as arranged marriages. For example, in Phoenix, Arizona, the police arrested a man for murder after he ran down his 20-year-old daughter for refusing to accept an arranged marriage to a man in the family's native country of Iraq. The prosecution of such crimes are carried out in the United States, but the crimes are not identified as honor killings under a form of law. It has been argued that the lack of using the label \"honor killings\" and instead using the all-encompassing label of \"domestic violence\" prevents the public from seeing the key differences between honor killings and domestic violence and also prevents any policies limiting and ultimately, putting an end, to the honor killings.\n\nAlthough a law in 2004 made honor killings illegal in Pakistan, honor killings still occur in Pakistan largely because of the lack of strict enforcement and the tendency of the legal system following the religious law. By creating laws that aligned legal laws with Islamic law, the Hudood Ordinance of Pakistan, enacted in 1979, created obstacles for women victimized of gender-based crimes. Women were required to provide four male witnesses, but if they were unable to do so, the case is not prosecuted. For women who are married, they face the punishment for having sex outside of marriage, which range from stoning to public lashing, and some families will commit honor killings due to the dishonor she has brought upon the family. A bill removed the four male witnesses requirement of the Hudood Ordinances in 2006, but there are allegations that the police force and other law enforcing officials are not necessarily enforcing the law and bill. Women rights advocacy groups have pressured the Pakistani government to respond to the deficiencies, but in March 2005, a bill that sought to strengthen the law against the practice of honor killing was rejected by the Pakistani parliament after being declared as un-Islamic by a majority vote.\n\nFemale genital mutilation (also referred as FGM) is a common case of genital mutilation. The act has been practiced in parts of Africa for centuries, but after the United Nations made recommendations in its Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), in the present times, many nations such as Ghana and Egypt have placed laws stopping the practice of FGM through legal means. Despite these laws, FGM continues to be practiced in the communities. In Egypt, FGM is banned by ministerial health decree and not in federal law as of 2007, but FGM is a prevalent practice in Egypt with 90% or more prevalence in girls and women between fifteen and forty-nine years of age. 90% of girls who went through FGM were under fourteen years old. Additionally, an estimated 90% of the procedures are done by doctors or other trained medical personnel. In January 2015 Raslan Fadl, a doctor, became the first in Egypt to be convicted of FGM, following an appeal of his acquittal of the manslaughter of Sohair al-Bataa during an FGM procedure. He was sentenced to two years in jail for manslaughter plus three months for the FGM.\n\nFGM came about to the attention of the American public with a U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals case in which a 17-year-old girl from Togo fled to the U.S. after being forced into a polygamous marriage and told she was to face genital mutilation. The girl was eventually granted asylum In September 1996, Congress enacted the \"Federal Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act,\" which prohibits FGM on persons under 18 years old. A landmark case is that of Khalid Adem who was the first person prosecuted and convicted of FGM in the United States after he circumcised his 2 year-old daughter. A native from Ethiopia and living in Georgia, Adem, circumcised his young daughter with a pair of scissors, and the young girl's mother did not find out about the act until two year later. After this case, Georgia enacted a law specifically forbidding the practice of FGM, but Adem, while originally facing forty years in prison, was only sentenced to ten years. Adem's case was the not first case involving FGM for in 2004, two California residents were arrested for conspiring to perform on FGM on young girls.\n\nThe first prosecution for FGM in the UK took place in 2014.\n\nThe International Criminal Court (ICC) was adopted in 1998 to specifically address war crimes and make advances in the prosecution of crimes committed against women. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which established the ICC, ensures effective prosecution of all crimes within the jurisdiction of the ICC and particularly mentions crimes involving sexual violence. The ICC appointed a Special Gender Advisor to specially manage the crimes of gender-targeted violence.\n\nThe United States has not officially joined as a member state of the ICC since it has not ratified the Rome Statute for the ICC. The lack of United State's ratifying the statute is considered as limiting the potential of the ICC to prosecute the gender-targeted crimes.\n\nA Tribunal is a governmental body that makes up courts with a special jurisdiction. As ad hoc courts, they have specific purposes and are created in a response to certain situations. When it comes to gender-targeted crimes, tribunals hear the trials of the related crimes. Two examples of tribunals that have carried out trials of gender-targeted crimes are the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY). These two tribunals have particularly focused on gender-based crimes while other tribunals have not. For example, another failure that the Tokyo Tribunal was its omission to call the female victims to give evidence at trial. The ICTR and ICTY have made improvements in regards to effectively prosecuting gender-targeted crimes and have carried out indictments that charge the accused with gender-based violence other than just rape charges. Women serve in high-level positions of both tribunals and have a prominent role in the prosecution of the gender-based crimes. This has allowed more cases to be heard as the female investigators and lawyers are able to reach out to the victims.\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR) was established in November 1994 by the United Nations Security Council with jurisdiction over the crimes committed during the Rwandan Genocide. For its first rape indictment, it took the ICTR three years to proceed. Two years after the establishment of the ICTR, a sexual assault unit of the Office of the Prosecutor (OTP) was created with three legal officers, one psychologist, one nurse, two lawyers, two policewomen, and one policeman. Under the ICTR, the sexual assault unit of the (OTP) created a policy to specifically carry out the legal proceedings of rape, genital mutilation, and other gender-targeted crimes. The OTP also has a Rape and Sexual Violence Section. This section under the OTP is headed by a female lawyer-investigator, and the OTP use female investigators and trial lawyers to reach out to the victims of rape and sexual violence, who are mostly women. Before the OTP, it was difficult to prosecute crimes of sexual violence under international criminal law, and because of these aspects, the OTP is considered to have founded the legal developments in the prosecution of gender-targeted crimes in international law.\n\nA landmark case conducted by the OTP is the 1998 conviction of the mayor of Taba commune in south Rwanda, Jean-Paul Akayesu, who directed acts of sexual violence on Tutsi girls and women in the Taba commune. Akayesu was the first person to be convicted of rape and sexual violence charges by an international court, and the case also represented the first international war crimes trial to convict a defendant for the crime of genocide. The case broke through the criminal networks that attempted to protect high-status, powerful political figures such as Akayesu who while not directly carrying out the slaughter, gave out undocumented orders for the mass killings. The case also made the following significant changes\n\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was established in 1993 by the United Nations Security Council to conduct the trials of crimes committed during the Yugoslav Wars. Feminist activists played a part in creating the structure of the ICTY over the gender-targeted crimes, and states and international organizations urged criminalizing rape with the main argument that the Geneva Conventions provided the context. This led to the ICTY Statue specifically listing rape as a crime against humanity. Under the Office of the Prosecutor (OTP) of the ICTY, there is a \"Legal Advisor for Gender-related Crimes\" position that directs the prosecution's dealings with gender-based crimes similar to the one made in the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). ICTY has a Victims and Witnesses Unit that provides support and counseling to victims and witnesses particularly in rape and sexual assault cases, and the unit is employed by women.\n\nThree cases- \"Čelebići,\" \"Furundžija,\" and \"Kunarac\"- are examples of the ICTY making indictments of gender-targeted violence.\n\nIn \"Kunarac,\" The ICTY convicted Serbian men of confining Bosnian Muslim women under the charges of enslavement, which was listed as a crime against humanity in the Statue. There are arguments that the accused should have been found guilty of sexual slavery and of genocide rather than enslavement \n\nFurundžija was a commander of the Jokers- a unit of the Bosnian Croatian Militia, which allegedly attacked villages of Bosnian Muslims through imprisonment, murder, sexual abuse, and other forms of violence- he was accused of participating in the torture involving forced sexual intercourse of a woman at the Jokers' headquarters. The prosecution depended on the testimony of the woman, and this drew debate over the credibility of the victim's memory. The case led to the concern for the survivors of traumatic events in addition to the victims.\n\nThe Čelebići case found four men guilty for committing various acts of violence while detaining Bosnian Muslims in a prison camp. The case is noteworthy for clarifying that the ones responsible of such events include \"not only military commanders, but also civilians holding positions of authority...\" and \"not only persons in de jure positions but also those in such position de facto...\" It is also the first conviction of an accused person for the charges of rape by the ICTY \n\nGender and security sector reform\n"}
{"id": "2515883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515883", "title": "Remote control animal", "text": "Remote control animal\n\nRemote control animals are animals that are controlled remotely by humans. Some applications require electrodes to be implanted in the animal's nervous system connected to a receiver which is usually carried on the animal's back. The animals are controlled by the use of radio signals. The electrodes do not move the animal directly, as if controlling a robot; rather, they signal a direction or action desired by the human operator and then stimulate the animal's reward centres if the animal complies. These are sometimes called bio-robots or robo-animals. They can be considered to be cyborgs as they combine electronic devices with an organic life form. Because of the surgery required, and the moral and ethical issues involved, there has been criticism aimed at the use of remote control animals, especially regarding animal welfare and animal rights. A similar, non-invasive application has been reported which stimulates the brain with ultrasound to control the animal. Some applications (used primarily for dogs) use vibrations or sound to control the movements of the animals.\n\nSeveral species of animals have been successfully controlled remotely. These include\nmoths, beetles, cockroaches, rats, dogfish sharks, mice and pigeons.\n\nRemote control animals can be directed and used as working animals for search and rescue operations or various other uses.\n\nSeveral studies have examined the remote control of rats using micro-electodes implanted into their brains and rely on stimulating the reward centre of the rat. Three electrodes are implanted; two in the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus which conveys facial sensory information from the left and right whiskers, and a third in the medial forebrain bundle which is involved in the reward process of the rat. This third electrode is used to give a rewarding electrical stimulus to the brain when the rat makes the correct move to the left or right. During training, the operator stimulates the left or right electrode of the rat making it \"feel\" a touch to the corresponding set of whiskers, as though it had come in contact with an obstacle. If the rat then makes the correct response, the operator rewards the rat by stimulating the third electrode.\n\nIn 2002, a team of scientists at the State University of New York remotely controlled rats from a laptop up to 500 m away. The rats could be instructed to turn left or right, climb trees and ladders, navigate piles of rubble, and jump from different heights. They could even be commanded into brightly lit areas, which rats usually avoid. It has been suggested that the rats could be used to carry cameras to people trapped in disaster zones.\n\nIn 2013, researchers reported the development of a radio-telemetry system to remotely control free-roaming rats with a range of 200 m. The backpack worn by the rat includes the mainboard and an FM transmitter-receiver, which can generate biphasic microcurrent pulses. All components in the system are commercially available and are fabricated from surface mount devices to reduce the size (25 x 15 x 2 mm) and weight (10 g with battery).\n\nConcerns have been raised about the ethics of such studies. Even one of the pioneers in this area of study, Sanjiv Talwar, said \"There's going to have to be a wide debate to see whether this is acceptable or not\" and \"There are some ethical issues here which I can't deny.\" Elsewhere he was quoted as saying \"The idea sounds a little creepy.\" Some oppose the idea of placing living creatures under direct human command. \"It's appalling, and yet another example of how the human species instrumentalises other species,\" says Gill Langley of the Dr Hadwen Trust based in Hertfordshire (UK), which funds alternatives to animal-based research. Gary Francione, an expert in animal welfare law at Rutgers University School of Law, says \"The animal is no longer functioning as an animal,\" as the rat is operating under someone's control. And the issue goes beyond whether or not the stimulations are compelling or rewarding the rat to act. \"There's got to be a level of discomfort in implanting these electrodes,\" he says, which may be difficult to justify. Talwar stated that the animal's \"native intelligence\" can stop it from performing some directives but with enough stimulation, this hesitation can sometimes be overcome, but occasionally cannot.\n\nResearchers at Harvard University have created a brain-to-brain interface (BBI) between a human and a Sprague-Dawley rat. Simply by thinking the appropriate thought, the BBI allows the human to control the rat's tail. The human wears an EEG-based brain-to-computer interface (BCI), while the anesthetised rat is equipped with a focused ultrasound (FUS) computer-to-brain interface (CBI). FUS is a technology that allows the researchers to excite a specific region of neurons in the rat's brain using an ultrasound signal (350 kHz ultrasound frequency, tone burst duration of 0.5 ms, pulse repetition frequency of 1 kHz, given for 300 ms duration). The main advantage of FUS is that, unlike most brain-stimulation techniques, it is non-invasive. Whenever the human looks at a specific pattern (strobe light flicker) on a computer screen, the BCI communicates a command to the rat's CBI, which causes ultrasound to be beamed into the region of the rat's motor cortex responsible for tail movement. The researchers report that the human BCI has an accuracy of 94%, and that it generally takes around 1.5 s from the human looking at the screen to movement of the rat's tail.\n\nAnother system that non-invasively controls rats uses ultrasonic, epidermal and LED photic stimulators on the back. The system receives commands to deliver specified electrical stimulations to the hearing, pain and visual senses of the rat respectively. The three stimuli work in groups for the rat navigation.\n\nOther researchers have dispensed with human remote control of rats and instead uses a General Regression Neural Network algorithm to analyse and model controlling of human operations.\n\nDogs are often used in disaster relief, at crime scenes and on the battlefield, but it's not always easy for them to hear the commands of their handlers. A command module which contains a microprocessor, wireless radio, GPS receiver and an attitude and heading reference system (essentially a gyroscope) can be fitted to dogs. The command module delivers vibration or sound commands (delivered by the handler over the radio) to the dog to guide it in a certain direction or to perform certain actions. The overall success rate of the control system is 86.6%.\n\nResearchers responsible for developing remote control of a pigeon using brain implants conducted a similar successful experiment on mice in 2005.\n\nIn 1967, Franz Huber pioneered electrical stimulation to the brain of insects and showed that mushroom body stimulation elicits complex behaviours, including the inhibition of locomotion.\n\nThe US-based company Backyard Brains released the \"RoboRoach\", a remote controlled cockroach kit that they refer to as \"The world's first commercially available cyborg\". The project started as a University of Michigan biomedical engineering student senior design project in 2010 and was launched as an available beta product on 25 February 2011. The RoboRoach was officially released into production via a TED talk at the TED Global conference, and via the crowdsourcing website Kickstarter in 2013, the kit allows students to use microstimulation to momentarily control the movements of a walking cockroach (left and right) using a bluetooth-enabled smartphone as the controller. The RoboRoach was the first kit available to the general public for the remote control of an animal and was funded by the United States' National Institute of Mental Health as a device to serve as a teaching aid to promote an interest in neuroscience. This funding was due to the similarities between the RoboRoach microstimulation, and the microstimulation used in the treatments of Parkinson's disease (Deep Brain Stimulation) and deafness (Cochlear implants) in humans. Several animal welfare organizations including the RSPCA and PETA have expressed concerns about the ethics and welfare of animals in this project.\n\nAnother group at North Carolina State University has developed a remote control cockroach. Researchers at NCSU have programmed a path for cockroaches to follow while tracking their location with an Xbox Kinect. The system automatically adjusted the cockroach's movements to ensure it stayed on the prescribed path.\n\nIn 2009, remote control of the flight movements of the \"Cotinus texana\" and the much larger \"Mecynorrhina torquata\" beetles has been achieved during experiments funded by the Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). The weight of the electronics and battery meant that only Mecynorrhina was strong enough to fly freely under radio control. A specific series of pulses sent to the optic lobes of the insect encouraged it to take flight. The average length of flights was just 45 seconds, although one lasted for more than 30 minutes. A single pulse caused the beetle to land again. Stimulation of basalar flight muscles allowed the controller to direct the insect left or right, although this was successful on only 75% of stimulations. After each maneuver, the beetles quickly righted themselves and continued flying parallel to the ground. In 2015, researchers was able to fine tune the beetle steering in flight by changing the pulse train applied on the wing-folding muscle. Recently, scientists from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, have demonstrated graded turning and backward walking in a small darkling beetle (Zophobas morio), which is 2 cm to 2.5 cm long and weight only 1 g including the electronic backpack and battery. It has been suggested the beetles could be used for search and rescue mission, however, it has been noted that currently available batteries, solar cells and piezoelectrics that harvest energy from movement cannot provide enough power to run the electrodes and radio transmitters for very long.\n\nWork using \"Drosophila\" has dispensed with stimulating electrodes and developed a 3-part remote control system that evokes action potentials in pre-specified \"Drosophila\" neurons using a laser beam. The central component of the remote control system is a Ligand-gated ion channel gated by ATP. When ATP is applied, uptake of external calcium is induced and action potentials generated. The remaining two parts of the remote control system include chemically caged ATP, which is injected into the central nervous system through the fly's simple eye, and laser light capable of uncaging the injected ATP. The giant fibre system in insects consists of a pair of large interneurons in the brain which can excite the insect flight and jump muscles. A 200 ms pulse of laser light elicited jumping, wing flapping, or other flight movements in 60%–80% of the flies. Although this frequency is lower than that observed with direct electrical stimulation of the giant fibre system, it is higher than that elicited by natural stimuli, such as a light-off stimulus.\n\nSpiny dogfish sharks have been remotely controlled by implanting electrodes deep in the shark's brain to a remote control device outside the tank. When an electric current is passed through the wire, it stimulates the shark's sense of smell and the animal turns, just as it would move toward blood in the ocean. Stronger electrical signals—mimicking stronger smells—cause the shark to turn more sharply. One study is funded by a $600,000 grant from Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). It has been suggested that such sharks could search hostile waters with sensors that detect explosives, or cameras that record intelligence photographs. Outside the military, similar sensors could detect oil spills or gather data on the behaviour of sharks in their natural habitat. Scientists working with remote control sharks admit they are not sure exactly which neurons they are stimulating, and therefore, they can't always control the shark's direction reliably. The sharks only respond after some training, and some sharks don't respond at all. The research has prompted protests from bloggers who allude to remote controlled humans or horror films featuring maniacal cyborg sharks on a feeding frenzy.\n\nAn alternative technique was to use small gadgets attached to the shark's noses that released squid juice on demand.\n\nSouth Korean researchers have remotely controlled the movements of a turtle using a completely non-invasive steering system. Red-eared terrapins (\"Trachemys scripta elegans\") were made to follow a specific path by manipulating the turtles' natural obstacle avoidance behaviour. If these turtles detect something is blocking their path in one direction, they move to avoid it. The researchers attached a black half cylinder to the turtle. The \"visor\" was positioned around the turtle's rear end, but was pivoted around using a microcontroller and a servo motor to either the left or right to partially block the turtle's vision on one side. This made the turtle believe there was an obstacle it needed to avoid on that side and thereby encouraged the turtle to move in the other direction.\n\nSome animals have had parts of their bodies remotely controlled, rather than their entire bodies. Researchers in China stimulated the mesencephalon of geckos (\"G. gecko\") via micro stainless steel electrodes and observed the gecko's responses during stimulation. Locomotion responses such as spinal bending and limb movements could be elicited in different depths of mesencephalon. Stimulation of the periaqueductal gray area elicited ipsilateral spinal bending while stimulation of the ventral tegmental area elicited contralateral spinal bending.\n\nIn 2007, researchers at east China's Shandong University of Science and Technology implanted micro electrodes in the brain of a pigeon so they could remotely control it to fly right or left, or up or down.\n\nRemote-controlled animals are considered to have several potential uses, replacing the need for humans in some dangerous situations. Their application is further widened if they are equipped with additional electronic devices. Small creatures fitted with cameras and other sensors have been proposed as being useful when searching for survivors after a building has collapsed, with cockroaches or rats being small and manoeuvrable enough to go under rubble.\n\nThere have been a number of suggested military uses of remote controlled animals, particularly in the area of surveillance. Remote-controlled dogfish sharks have been likened to the studies into the use of military dolphins. It has also been proposed that remote-controlled rats could be used for the clearing of land mines. Other suggested fields of application include pest control, the mapping of underground areas, and the study of animal behaviour.\n\nDevelopment of robots that are capable of performing the same actions as controlled animals is often technologically difficult and cost-prohibitive. Flight is very difficult to replicate while having an acceptable payload and flight duration. Harnessing insects and using their natural flying ability gives significant improvements in performance. The availability of \"inexpensive, organic substitutes\" therefore allows for the development of small, controllable robots that are otherwise currently unavailable.\n\nSome animals are remotely controlled, but rather than being directed to move left or right, the animal is prevented from moving forward, or its behaviour is modified in other ways.\n\nShock collars deliver electrical shocks of varying intensity and duration to the neck or other area of a dog's body via a radio-controlled electronic device incorporated into a dog collar. Some collar models also include a tone or vibration setting, as an alternative to or in conjunction with the shock. Shock collars are now readily available and have been used in a range of applications, including behavioural modification, obedience training, and pet containment, as well as in military, police and service training. While similar systems are available for other animals, the most common are the collars designed for domestic dogs.\n\nThe use of shock collars is controversial and scientific evidence for their safety and efficacy is mixed. A few countries have enacted bans or controls on their use. Some animal welfare organizations warn against their use or actively support a ban on their use or sale. Some want restrictions placed on their sale. Some professional dog trainers and their organizations oppose their use and some support them. Support for their use or calls for bans from the general public is mixed.\n\nIn 2007, it was reported that scientists at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation had developed a prototype \"invisible fence\" using the Global Positioning System (GPS) in a project nicknamed Bovines Without Borders. The system uses battery-powered collars that emit a sound to warn cattle when they are approaching a virtual boundary. If a cow wanders too near, the collar emits a warning noise. If it continues, the cow gets an electric shock of 250-milliwatts . The boundaries are drawn by GPS and exist only as a line on a computer. There are no wires or fixed transmitters at all. The cattle took less than an hour to learn to back off when they heard the warning noise. The scientists indicated that commercial units were up to 10 years away.\n\nAnother type of invisible fence uses a buried wire that sends radio signals to activate shock collars worn by animals that are \"fenced\" in. The system works with three signals. The first is visual (white plastic flags spaced at intervals around the perimeter in the fenced-in area), the second is audible (the collar emits a sound when the animal wearing it approaches buried cable), and finally there's an electric shock to indicate they have reached the fence.\n\nOther invisible fences are wireless. Rather than using a buried wire, they emit a radio signal from a central unit, and activate when the animal travels beyond a certain radius from the unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "41203176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41203176", "title": "Rex Tso", "text": "Rex Tso\n\nRex Tso Sing-yu : 曹星如; born 15 July 1987) is a Hong Kong professional boxer. He has won several regional titles at super-flyweight and has been ranked in the world top 10 by the WBA, WBC, IBF, and WBO.\n\nTso won the WBC Asia Continental Super Flyweight title in December 2012 in a bruising 12-round contest against Timur Shailezov of Kyrgyzstan, stopping his opponent in the 10th round. He then captured the WBO Asia-Pacific Junior Bantamweight title against Mako Matsuyama in February 2014, winning by TKO in the 8th round of the 10-round contest. Tso then added the WBA International Super Flyweight title to his collection after defeating Michael Enriquez in March 2015. He then captured the WBC Asia Super Flyweight title against Brad Hore in August 2015 and the WBO International Junior Bantamweight title against Ryuto Maekawa in October 2016.\n\nOn March 11, 2017, he successfully defended his WBO International and WBC Asian Boxing Council titles and claimed the WBO Asia-Pacific title against Hirofumi Mukai. Tso battered Mukai and dropped him twice before finishing him with a left to the body in the 8th round. With the win, Tso improved his record to 21-0. In October 2017, Tso faced former WBA world champion Kohei Kono. Tso had sought to fight Kono while the latter a world champion, but was unable to draw him into the ring. After six rounds, Tso was unable to continue due to swelling around his eye. Nevertheless, Tso remained unbeaten by winning a technical decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "1134746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134746", "title": "Sharmba Mitchell", "text": "Sharmba Mitchell\n\nSharmba David Mitchell ( ; born August 27, 1970) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1988 to 2006. He held the WBA light welterweight title from 1998 to 2001, and the IBF interim light welterweight title in 2004.\n\nMitchell began his professional boxing career on September 23, 1988, knocking out Eddie Colón in three rounds at Atlantic City, New Jersey.\n\nHe had a mark of 14 wins and no losses with seven knockouts - including victories over former Olympic Games bronze medalist Aristides Acevedo and over Dana Roston - when he met a former or future world champion for the first time inside a ring. On March 8, 1990, he beat the famed former world champion Rafael Limón in Atlantic City by an eight-round unanimous decision.\n\nMitchell kept on winning, running his record up to 27-0 with sixteen knockouts, including a victory against former world title challenger Miguel Santana. He then fought former world champion Rocky Lockridge on April 22, 1992, winning a ten-round unanimous decision.\n\nMitchell had recorded a 31-0 record until he lost two fights in a row to begin 1994: one against future world champion Leavander Johnson in eight rounds, then to future two-time world lightweight champion Stevie Johnston in nine rounds. He did not lose another fight in the next seven years.\n\nAfter six more wins in a row, including one over future world champion Terron Millett, Mitchell fought for the WBC continental Americas light welterweight title in Dallas, Texas on April 11, 1996. He won the title by knocking out Gilberto Floes in the second round.\n\nOn May 10, 1997, Mitchell defeated Jose Rafael Barboza by a twelve-round decision in Miami, Florida to win the WBA's Fedelatin belt in the same weight division. After two more victories, he got his first chance at winning a world title.\n\nOn October 10, 1998, he beat Moroccan Khalid Rahilou by a twelve-round unanimous decision in Paris, France, becoming the WBA light welterweight champion.\n\nMitchell retained his world title four times, his last successful defense being against Puerto Rican Felix Flores on September 16, 2000, at Las Vegas. Mitchell was dropped in the first round, but he recovered and edged the challenger by two scores of 116-111 and one of 116-113.\n\nAfter that fight, demand rose for a unification title bout between Mitchell and Kostya Tszyu of Australia, the WBC light welterweight champion.\n\nThe highly anticipated match took place in Las Vegas on February 3, 2001. The outcome was controversial, as Mitchell broke his knee early in the fight and he could not continue after round seven. Although Mitchell was not knocked out in a conventional way, this nevertheless counted as a knockout loss in his record.\n\nMitchell then fought eight bouts, winning each of them, including victories over former world champion Vince Phillips and winning the IBF super lightweight title against Lovemore N'Dou in Atlantic City New Jersey. Defending that title ounce in Manchester England. He also beat and became and the first person to have knocked down Ben Tackie.\n\nNegotiations for a rematch with Tszyu had been taking place long before the fights with the aforementioned rivals. Tszyu, however, had his own health problems, and the fight kept being cancelled. First scheduled for Australia and then for Moscow, the rematch finally took place on November 6, 2004, in Phoenix, Arizona. Mitchell was floored four times in the second bout with Tszyu before being stopped in round three, losing by knockout.\n\nOn November 19, 2005, Mitchell was defeated by Floyd Mayweather Jr. in their 147-lbs. non-title bout in Portland, Oregon. Mayweather dropped Mitchell in the third round with a straight right hand to the head, and again dropped him in the sixth with a hook to the body, ending the fight. During his most recent bout - against Paul Williams in Reno, Nevada, on August 19, 2006 - Mitchell was knocked down in the third round, and three times in the fourth round. Referee Richard Steele stopped the bout at 2:57 when Mitchell arose wobbly from the final knockdown. Mitchell retired for good shortly there after.\n\nMitchell finished his professional boxing career of 57 wins and 6 losses, with 30 knockout wins.\n\n"}
{"id": "16558949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16558949", "title": "Sinking of Rochdale and Prince of Wales", "text": "Sinking of Rochdale and Prince of Wales\n\nRochdale\" and \"Prince of Wales were two troop ships that sank in Dublin Bay in 1807.\n\nDublin Port had long been dangerous because it was accessible only at high tide and was subject to sudden storms. Many ships were lost while waiting for the tide, but little was done until this disaster. The impact of 400 bodies being washed up on an urban shore had an effect on public and official opinion. This event was the impetus to the building of Dún Laoghaire Harbour.\n\nOn 19 November 1807 several ships left Dublin carrying troops bound for the Napoleonic war. The next day, two ships, the brig \"Rochdale\" and H.M. Packet ship \"Prince of Wales\", having been caught in gale-force winds and heavy snow, were lost. Troops on \"Prince of Wales\" may have been deliberately locked below deck while the ship's captain and crew escaped. No lifeboat was launched. There was looting.\n\nThis tragedy was the impetus to the building of Dún Laoghaire Harbour, which was initially called \"Dunleary\", then \"Kingstown\", and now \"Dún Laoghaire\". Dublin port was hampered by a sandbar, which meant that ships could enter or leave only at high tide. A solution, the building of the North Bull Wall, had been identified by Vice-Admiral William Bligh in 1800. If there was a storm, a ship would have to ride out the storm in the open sea, waiting for the tide.\n\n\"The bay of Dublin has perhaps been more fatal to seamen and ships than any in the world, for a ship once caught in it in a gale of wind from ENE to SSE must ride it out at anchors or go on shore, and from the nature of that shore the whole of the crews almost invariably have perished.\" – Captain Charles Malcolm of George IV's royal yacht.\nA pier had been built at Dún Laoghaire, now known as the \"coal harbour\", in 1767, but it had rapidly silted up. The early nineteenth century was unusually stormy. Dublin Bay was notoriously treacherous for boats. The remains of at least 600 vessels rest at the bottom of the bay.\n\nOn 19 November 1807, the sea began to swell. Wind speed increased to hurricane force. Sleet and snow fell to such intensity that visibility was reduced to zero; they may not have realised how close they were to shore. The east wind blew the ships back towards the shore.\n\nWhile \"Rochdale\" and \"Prince of Wales\" were lost, another troop transport, \"Lark\", which left earlier, safely reached Holyhead. Other ships were lost at that time. A collier was lost at the South Bull (outside Dublin Port). The inbound Liverpool packet was lost off Bray.\n\nIn July 1807, following military successes, Napoleon signed the Treaties of Tilsit with Russia and Prussia leaving him master of central and eastern Europe. He then turned his attention westward to Spain and Portugal. The British government was alarmed. Soldiers were recruited to defend England's coast and to intervene in Spain (see Peninsular War) under Wellington.\n\nFear of an invasion of Ireland was further met by the building of Martello Towers on the southern and eastern coasts and watchtowers on the other coastlines.\n\nFrench troops had invaded Ireland on 22 August 1798, under General Humbert, establishing the short-lived Republic of Connacht. On that occasion the Mayo Militia was ingloriously defeated in what became known as the Races of Castlebar. In 1807 many members of the North Mayo and South Mayo Militias volunteered and were lost from the \"Prince of Wales\". They joined the 97th Regiment of Foot, the Minorca Regiment, which was known as the \"Queens Own Germans\" as it was initially formed from Swiss and German mercenaries. (In 1816, the 97th was renumbered as the 96th).\n\nThe North Cork Militia was active in suppressing the Irish Rebellion of 1798. They suffered a defeat at the Battle of Oulart Hill. In 1807, while most joined the 18th Regiment of Foot so many members of the North Cork Militia volunteered that they had to be dispersed over 25 different regiments.\n\nThey joined the British Army for a shilling a week and three meals a day – an alternative to terrible poverty.\n\nHM Packet ship \"Prince of Wales\" was a sloop of 103 tons with a draught of 11 feet. She was built in Parkgate, Cheshire in 1787.\n\nShe sailed under Captain Robert Jones of Liverpool carrying the 97th regiment on 19 November. The next day she had progressed only to a point opposite Bray Head, a matter of a few miles. She cast anchor, but the sea was so violent that she failed to come to anchor; she was blown back past Dún Laoghaire. Her sails were completely torn. She was driven onto rocks at Blackrock.\nThere was just one longboat aboard. Captain Jones, nine seamen, two women with children (family members), and two soldiers escaped on this lifeboat. They did not know where they were, or how close they were to the shore. They rowed parallel to the shore until one of the sailors fell overboard and found that he was standing in shallow water.\nIt was alleged that the troops were locked below deck, the ladder withdrawn, and the hatch battened down. All 120 soldiers drowned in the storm and are interred in Merrion Cemetery not too far from where the incident occurred.\n\n\"Rochdale\" was larger than \"Prince of Wales\". She was built in 1797; she was a brig of 135 tons and a ten-foot draught. She sailed under Captain Hodgson. She was driven along a similar path as the Prince of Wales. She cast anchors but the cable snapped. On shore cries of the terrified passengers could be heard. As she swept past Dún Laoghaire, soldiers on board fired their muskets to attract attention. At Salthill, would-be rescuers had to shelter from the gunfire. Off Blackrock, blue lights were seen and gunfire heard. She stuck the rocks at the Seapoint Martello tower. A twelve-foot plank would have rescued them, but all 265, including 42 women and 29 children, on board were lost. Their bodies were unrecognisable, being mutilated by the sea and the rocks. Most of those who perished are interred in Carrickbrennan Churchyard in Monkstown with a memorial.\n\nAlthough there were lifeboats stationed at Clontarf, Bullock, Howth, Dún Laoghaire and Islandbridge none were launched.\n\nThere was looting of the ships and the items washed ashore. An immense amount of baggage was washed ashore and troops were put on guard. Looters gathered as was usual at the time and one from Dún Laoghaire was drowned. All the weekend was spent in collecting the bodies for burial. The Regimental Silver Plate of the Queens Own Germans was lost. Rewards were offered. Six persons were convicted and sent to Kilmainham Gaol for plundering bodies or articles.\n\nCaptain Robert Jones and his crew survived in the only lifeboat. Two soldiers also survived. The captain was accused of murder. The Captain said that the lifeboat was not launched; rather, it was cast into the sea by the storm, so he ordered those on deck to get into it. Anthony McIntyre of the 18th Royal Irish said that the captain launched the lifeboat and that the ladder from the hold to the deck was withdrawn. Andrew Boyle, also of the 18th Royal Irish, spoke through an Irish interpreter, saying that the ladder was not removed because “persons below held on to it very tightly”. The verdict was \"Casual death by shipwreck\". The case was dismissed.\n\nThe Irish Parliament having been abolished, from 1 January 1801 Irish members of parliament had to travel to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. That meant frequent travel across the Irish Sea.\nA campaign to build a harbour at Dún Laoghaire was already under way. The person chiefly responsible was a resident Norwegian master mariner and shipbroker named Richard Toucher, who worked tirelessly campaigning to bring about the construction of a safe port. His Asylum Harbour was conceived as a refuge for sailing ships in trouble in Dublin Bay.\nAfter this tragedy, the campaign received the support required. The term 'asylum' in this context means a harbour where ships can seek refuge from a storm.\n\nConstruction commenced on a packet harbour at Howth, which was completed in 1809. Travelling from Dublin to Howth meant travelling through the 'badlands of Sutton', where coaches were liable to be raided. Howth was a shallow harbour, and as larger ships were built, in particular with the introduction of steam packets from 1819, it became unsuitable, its rocky bottom precluded any dredging.\n\nIn 1815, eight Harbour Commissioners were appointed to supervise the building of a new harbour at Dún Laoghaire. George IV visited in 1821, arriving at Howth and departing from Dún Laoghaire. He renamed the town \"Kingstown\".\nThe name reverted to Dún Laoghaire in 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "4695949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695949", "title": "Soil seed bank", "text": "Soil seed bank\n\nThe soil seed bank is the natural storage of seeds, often dormant, within the soil of most ecosystems. The study of soil seed banks started in 1859 when Charles Darwin observed the emergence of seedlings using soil samples from the bottom of a lake. The first scientific paper on the subject was published in 1882 and reported on the occurrence of seeds at different soil depths. Weed seed banks have been studied intensely in agricultural science because of their important economic impacts; other fields interested in soil seed banks include forest regeneration and restoration ecology.\n\nMany taxa have been classified according to the longevity of their seeds in the soil seed bank. Seeds of \"transient\" species remain viable in the soil seed bank only to the next opportunity to germinate, while seeds of \"persistent\" species can survive longer than the next opportunity—often much longer than one year. Species with seeds that remain viable in the soil longer than five years form the \"long-term\" persistent seed bank, while species whose seeds generally germinate or die within one to five years are called \"short-term\" persistent. A typical long-term persistent species is \"Chenopodium album\" (Lambsquarters); its seeds commonly remain viable in the soil for up to 40 years and in rare situations perhaps as long as 1,600 years. A species forming no soil seed bank at all (except the dry season between ripening and the first autumnal rains) is \"Agrostemma githago\" (Corncockle), which is a formerly widespread cereal weed.\n\nLongevity of seeds is very variable and depends on many factors; few species exceed 100 years. In typical soils the longevity of seeds can range from nearly zero (germinating immediately when reaching the soil or even before) to several hundred years. Some of the oldest still-viable seeds were those of Lotus (\"Nelumbo nucifera\") found buried in the soil of a pond; these seeds were estimated by carbon dating to be around 1,200 years old.\n\nOne of the longest-running soil seed viability trials was started in Michigan in 1879 by James Beal. The experiment involved the burying of 20 bottles holding 50 seeds from 21 species. Every five years, a bottle from every species was retrieved and germinated on a tray of sterilized soil which was kept in a growth chamber. Later, after responsibility for managing the experiment was delegated to caretakers, the period between retrievals became longer. In 1980, more than 100 years after the trial was started, seeds of only three species were observed to germinate: moth mullein (\"Verbascum blattaria\"), common mullein (\"Verbascum thapsus\") and common mallow (\"Malva neglecta\").\n\nSoil seed banks play an important role in the natural environment of many ecosystems. For example, the rapid re-vegetation of sites disturbed by wildfire, catastrophic weather, agricultural operations, and timber harvesting is largely due to the soil seed bank. Forest ecosystems and wetlands contain a number of specialized plant species forming persistent soil seed banks.\n\nBefore the advent of herbicides a good example of a persistent seed bank species, Papaver rhoeas sometimes was so abundant in agricultural fields in Europe that it could be mistaken for a crop.\n\nThe absence of a soil seed bank impedes the establishment of vegetation during primary succession, while presence of a well-stocked soil seed bank permits rapid development of species-rich ecosystems during secondary succession.\n\nThe mortality of seeds in the soil is one of the key factors for the persistence and density fluctuations of plant populations, especially for annual plants. Studies on the genetic structure of \"Androsace septentrionalis\" populations in the seed bank compared to those of established plants showed that diversity within populations is higher below ground than above ground.\n\nThere are indications that mutations are more important for species forming a persistent seed bank compared to those with only transient seeds. The increase of species richness in a plant community due to a species-rich and abundant soil seed bank is known as the \"storage effect\".\n\nSpecies of \"Striga\" (witchweed) are known to leave some of the highest seed densities in the soil compared to other plant genera; this is a major factor that aids their invasive potential. Each plant has the capability to produce between 90,000 and 450,000 seeds, although a majority of these seeds are not viable. It has been estimated that only two witchweeds would produce enough seeds required to refill a seed bank after seasonal losses.\n\nThe term soil diaspore bank can be used to include non-flowering plants such as ferns and bryophytes.\n\nIn addition to seeds, perennial plants have vegetative propagules to facilitate forming new plants, migration into new ground, or reestablishment after being top-killed. These propagules are collectively called the 'soil bud bank', and include dormant and adventitious buds on stolons, rhizomes, and bulbs.\n\nSoil seed bank is significant breeding source for vegetation restoration and species-rich vegetation restoration, as they provide memories of past vegetation and represent the structure of future population. Soil seed bank did not very differ in overall seed density or species diversity, and there was little relative between the species composition of the seed bank, the composition of the seed bank and the composition of the aboveground vegetation. These two facts could lead to the conclusion that the species composition of the aboveground vegetation and the soil bank can differ. Additionally, it is a key point that the relationship between soil seed bank and original potential to measure the revegetation potential..\n"}
{"id": "18113340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18113340", "title": "Student Peace Alliance", "text": "Student Peace Alliance\n\nThe Student Peace Alliance is a nonpartisan student action organization advocating peace across the United States of America. Founded at Brandeis University in the Spring of 2006 by Aaron Voldman and Julia Simon-Mishel, Student Peace Alliance is a 501(c)4 organization, and has 100 chapters in the United States at high schools, colleges, and community youth organizations.\n\nThe Student Peace Alliance calls for a U.S. Department of Peace to effectively and efficiently implement policies that would centralize and unify peace building efforts domestically and abroad. With a legislative bill in the U.S. House of representatives (H.R. 808) that currently has 70 co-sponsors, Student Peace Alliance coordinates supportive efforts on a local and national level through various actions including, policy suggestions, research, citizen lobbying efforts, and peaceful non-violent demonstrations.\n\nValentine's Day Action : On Valentine's Day congressional offices all over the nation are visited by Student Peace Alliance members with Valentine's letters from constituents of their congressional district.\n\nPeace of the Pie Action : The annual Mother's Day \"Peace of the Pie\" National Action Day! On May 11 (the Friday before Mother's Day), members of SPA and Peace Alliance take pies to their local Congressional offices, letting members of Congress know that \"Peace wants a Piece of the Pie, which is 2% of the Federal Defence Budget.\n\nThe Greater Alliance, all of which have the goal of promoting peace and policies for peace, consists of the Peace Alliance, Student Peace Alliance, and Global Alliance for Ministries and Departments of Peace. Founded in 2004 by Maryanne Williamson, the Peace Alliance is an organization dedicated to, in coordination with national efforts, raising grassroots awareness in local communities about violence prevention and peace programs in order to influence congressional decisions. Established in 2005, and operating in over 30 countries around the world, The Global Alliance for Ministries and Departments of Peace works on an international level promoting peaceful dialogue between nations through peace summits and global initiatives to establish Departments and Ministries of Peace.\n\n"}
{"id": "40529144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40529144", "title": "Thalassogen", "text": "Thalassogen\n\nIn astronomy, a thalassogen denotes a substance capable of forming a planetary ocean. Thalassogens are not necessarily life sustaining, although most interest has been in the context of extraterrestrial life.\n\nThe term was coined by Isaac Asimov in his essay \"The Thalassogens\", later published in his 1972 collection \"The Left Hand of the Electron\".\n\nElements making up thalassogens have to be relatively abundant, the substance must be chemically stable in its environment, and must remain liquid under the conditions found on some planets. Freitas gives the following table, noting that the liquid range typically increases with increasing pressure:\n\nThe critical temperature and pressure represents the point where the distinction between gas and liquid vanishes, a possible upper limit for life (although life in supercritical fluids has been discussed both in science and fiction, such as in Close to Critical by Hal Clement).\n\nLater authors have also suggested sulfuric acid, ethane, and water/ammonia mixtures as possible thalassogens. The discovery of possible subsurface oceans on moons such as Europa also extends the range of possible environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "206364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206364", "title": "Thinking processes (theory of constraints)", "text": "Thinking processes (theory of constraints)\n\nThe thinking processes in Eliyahu M. Goldratt's theory of constraints are the five methods to enable the focused improvement of any cognitive system (especially business systems).\n\nThe purpose of the thinking processes is to help answer questions essential to achieving focused improvement: \n\nSometimes two other questions are considered as well:\n\nand:\nA more thorough rationale is presented in \"What is this thing called Theory of Constraints and how should it be implemented\".\n\nA more thorough work, mapping the use and evolution of the Thinking Processes, was conducted by Mabin et al.\n\nThe primary thinking processes, as codified by Goldratt and others:\n\nSome observers note that these processes are not fundamentally very different from some other management change models such as PDCA \"Plan-Do-Check-Act\" (aka \"Plan-Do-Study-Act\") or \"Survey-Assess-Decide-Implement-Evaluate\", but the way they can be used is clearer and more straightforward.\n\n"}
{"id": "55178730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55178730", "title": "Use of social media by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant", "text": "Use of social media by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant\n\nThe Islamic State, also known as ISIS, ISIL, and the Daesh, is a terrorist group located in Northern Iraq and Syria. The group sophisticatedly utilizes social media as a tool to spread terror around the world in addition to international recruitment efforts. The Islamic State is widely known for its posting of disturbing contents such as beheading videos on the internet. The Islamic State creates its own online content such as videos, magazines, and flyers. This propaganda is disseminated through websites and many social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Telegram, and YouTube. By utilizing social media, the organization has garnered a strong following and successfully recruited thousands of followers. Additionally, the organization has recruited members from Western countries including the United States, United Kingdom, and Canada. The group has been connected to deadly shootings such as the Paris attack and the Pulse Nightclub Shooting.\nIn response to the international rise of the group, many websites and social media platforms have banned accounts and removed content promoting the Islamic State from their platforms.\n\nISIS targets a variety of different groups both in the Middle East and Western Countries. There are a wide variety of motives for why fighters may be prompted to join ISIS. Quantum researchers cite nine attributes characteristic of a fighter looking to join ISIS: status seeking, identity seeking, revenge, redemption, thrill, ideology, justice, and death.\n\nThe standard ISIS recruit, both from the Middle East and Western countries, is relatively young. The average age of ISIS fighters is around 26 years old, with 86% of recruits being male. Middle Eastern recruits come from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in Northern Iraq. Recent destruction in the Iraq War and Syrian Civil War has created hatred of Western Powers in the region.\n\nWestern recruits are often 2nd or 3rd generation immigrants. Computer scientists Zeeshan ul-hassan Usmani also found that the majority of the Western recruits don’t feel “at home” in their home country. As a result, these fighters often have desires to go abroad and escape conditions in their home country.\n\nIn addition to recruitment, ISIS's social media presence is also meant to intimidate and spread terror around the world. ISIS's posting of beheadings and other execution videos primarily target the Western world.\n\nISIS produces propaganda videos that range from video executions to full-length documentaries. The videos have a high production quality and incorporate montages, slow motion scenes, and are often accompanied by a short dialogue. ISIS has a dedicated team of over 100 media insurgents dedicated to recording these videos.\n\nThe ISIS executions typically consist of beheadings or mass shootings in retaliation to western intervention in ISIS territory. The particular videos that ISIS often post include executions of “enemies of the Caliphate,” which often consist of westerners or Jordanian nationals. Most infamously, an executioner named Jihadi John was seen in many of these videos prior to his death in 2015. Jihadi John is notorious for executing many US, UK, and Japanese citizens such as Steven Sotloff, David Haines, and Alan Henning.\n\nIn many of the videos and materials produced by ISIS, there is the theme of inclusion and brotherhood. Additionally, the videos also focus on 3 main messages:\nThese messages can be seen throughout all content produced by the Islamic State such as war documentaries, execution videos, and Rumiyah (magazine).\n\nFrom 2013 to 2014, the organization primarily used mainstream platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and Youtube. In 2014, these large social media platforms removed ISIS content. Since then, ISIS has chosen to utilize social media platforms that either protect their content or allow for content to quickly be reposted. These platforms of choice are Telegram, Justpaste.it, and Surespot.\n\nISIS also implements marketing initiatives like “Jihadist Follow Friday,” which encourages users to follow new ISIS-related accounts each Friday. This specific hashtag mirrors commonly used hashtags such as #motivation monday or #throwbackthursday. To augment their online presence and popularity, the organization encourages their followers to use a plethora of arabic hashtags, which translate to #theFridayofSupportingISIS, and #CalamityWillBefalltheUS. This allows them to gain followers each week while promoting their community and message on a weekly basis.\n\nDuring 2014, there was an estimated 46,000-90,000 Twitter accounts that advocated for ISIS or were run by supporters of the group. In 2015, Twitter reported that it banned 125,000 ISIS sympathetic accounts. In 2016, it published an update of 325,000 deleted accounts.\n\nThough many accounts have been suspended, ISIS supporters often create new accounts. Twitter defines those who recreate accounts as “resurgents” and explains that these are often difficult accounts to remove completely, since they tend to pop back up in alternate forms. It is estimated that approximately 20% of all ISIS affiliated Twitter accounts can be traced back to fake accounts created by the same user. Many of these accounts are traced back to the “Baqiya family,” which is an online network of thousands of ISIS followers. Many of these accounts are active during important ISIS military victories. During the ISIS march on Mosul, there were about 42,000 tweets on Twitter supporting the invasion.\n\nDuring 2014, ISIS became very active on Telegram after many major social media platforms banned ISIS content and sympathetic accounts. Telegram is an encrypted messaging application. The platform by nature is created as an end-to-end user encryption platform. Further, it also has special features such as the self-destruct timer which erase all evidence and messages. The app has a user data protection policy because violating this policy could potentially damage the app’s brand of customer privacy. Government agencies have been unable to break Telegram's encryption technology.\n\nOn Telegram, ISIS often uses the hashtag #KhilafahNews to attract their users. Telegram is used by ISIS to plan social media campaigns on alternate platforms. The organization also uses Telegram as an anchor platform to connect with their user base when their other accounts are banned on Twitter and Facebook.\n\nIn July 2017, Telegram came under scrutiny from the media and news media outlets. It has been documented that ISIS gunmen have used this app to maintain contact with ISIS leaders in Raqqa days before terror attacks in Turkey, Berlin, and St. Petersburg. Despite concerns from Western media, there has been little to no action taken against ISIS accounts on Telegram.\n\nJustpaste.it, an anonymous photo and text sharing website, has also been utilized heavily. With the option to lock images, the website allows anonymous users to send and receive content without registration. For this reason, ISIS members have shared photos of countless murders, executions, and battlegrounds onto the app to be disseminated to other applications.\n\nIn order to stop ISIS from using the website, there is only one option: shutting it down. However, founder Mariusz Żurawek has previously stated his opinion against doing so. He stated, \"I do not want to interfere with any type of conflict and stay on one side. Justpaste.it has many users. I cannot focus on a single group. I don’t see any reason why they should shut down the service. Should they shut down Twitter, too?\"\n\nIn 2014, Justpaste.it removed graphic content from the website—this prompted ISIS to launch their own content-sharing pages. These new options include Manbar.me, in 2014, Nasher.me in January 2015, and Alors.ninja, in July 2015. ISIS social media offices relied most heavily on Manbar.me to distribute propagandist photos of battles and city raids. In 2016, ISIS introduced PasteMaker and Sharetext, which mirrored the encrypted messages of Justpaste.it. Despite creating their own platforms periodically, they were considerably more difficult to navigate; thus ISIS returned to using Justpaste.it.\n\nISIS created The Dawn of Glad Tidings, an Arabic Language application. This app shares many of the tweets, pictures, and videos from ISIS sympathetic Twitter accounts. Additionally, it allowed users to see and monitor hashtags, tweets, images, videos, and comments that were posted on their accounts. The application was originally intended for ISIS followers to have a private online forum to communicate. This app was downloaded several hundred times on the Google Play app store before being taken down.\n\nAs the November 2015 attacks in Paris demonstrate, ISIS also resorts to old-fashioned methods of communication and propaganda. Lewis notes that the attacks in Paris represent a 'propaganda of the deed', a method developed by 19th century anarchists in Europe. The November 2015 ISIS attacks were perpetrated without prior warning, largely because the operatives met face-to-face and used other non-digital means of communication. Additionally, it is common for ISIS to claim responsibility of many terror attacks around the world such as the Paris Attacks, the Pulse night club shooting, and the Las Vegas attack.\n\nISIS’s activities on the surface web are subject to scrutiny and regulations by corporations, government agencies, and hackers. ISIS has been forced to look for a new online safe haven. ISIS also posts a variety of content on the Dark Web. The Dark Web is untraceable and provides complete anonymity to both the viewer and the original poster. They also actively publish a variety of their content on the dark web as well as their own internally generated platforms. ISIS's usage of dark web has made anti-terrorism work more difficult.\n\nUsing the dark web, ISIS has made their own platform to increase their ability to spread their message. Without the intervention of corporate actors or government entities, ISIS has been able to freely spread their messages on their own platforms and websites. In 2017, Europol, the European Police, was able to uncover 52 unique online ISIS networks on the dark web. These 52 unique networks contained over 2,000 unique extremist items.\n\nISIS social media posts have mobilized ordinary citizens throughout the world and other radical jihadists groups to act upon their digitized demands. Their methods have worked to effectively recruit younger individuals to join their groups in a consolidated setting. Platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, and Youtube are more impressionable mediums, especially on a younger demographic. For this reason, ISIS strategically places their polished messages on these platforms to attract potential new members from an early age. A study about the repercussions of social media demonstrated that there were approximately 1,264 cases that could be categorized as “violent-inciting” examples; in these cases, ISIS social media experts have deliberately posted threatening propaganda to provoke offline aggression. Many “call for action” verbs that have a positive connotation have also been utilized to establish feelings of justification towards any pertinent violence.\n\nBoth national governments and corporations have taken a stand against ISIS in both the physical and virtual spheres.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State announced an international coalition in 2014, in which they list five lines of effort to expose ISIS. They include:\nCompanies are also taking action to hinder ISIS social media recruitment attempts. Google’s ThinkTank, Jigsaw, launched a collaboration with Youtube in July, 2017 to redirect any potential recruits using the Redirect Method. After facing growing pressure from the government leaders, Facebook announced that the company is using Artificial Intelligence to detect terrorism related contents, their effort would extend to other Facebook owned platforms such as WhatsApp.\n\n“The Redirect Method uses Adwords targeting tools and curated YouTube videos uploaded by people all around the world to confront online radicalization. It focuses on the slice of ISIS’ audience that is most susceptible to its messaging, and redirects them towards curated YouTube videos debunking ISIS recruiting themes. This open methodology was developed from interviews with ISIS defectors, respects users’ privacy and can be deployed to tackle other types of violent recruiting discourses online.”\n\nBy using this tactic, Jigsaw catches slogans that manifest any positive ISIS sentiments, like “Baqiyah wa Tatamadad” (Remaining and Expanding), and “Al Dawla Al Islameyah,” which includes “al-Dawla,” a sign of respect.\n\nLastly, Anonymous declared war against ISIS in November 2015, attempting to thwart the social media recruitment efforts by targeting ISIS’s communication networks.\n"}
{"id": "44687203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44687203", "title": "Vincent Blore", "text": "Vincent Blore\n\nVincent P. Blore (25 February 1907 – 1997) also known as Vince Blore was an English footballer who played as a goalkeeper for Uttoxeter Amateurs, Burton Town, Aston Villa, Derby County, West Ham United, Crystal Palace and Exeter City.\n\nBlore played for Uttoxeter Amateurs, Burton Town and Aston Villa before moving to Derby County in August 1933. He made his debut for Derby on 19 August 1934 in a 2-0 away defeat to Leicester City. Blore made only 15 appearances before moving to West Ham in 1935. Known as \"Vic\" by West Ham fans, he was signed by manager, Charlie Paynter. His debut came on 31 August 1935 in a 4-3 away defeat to Norwich City. 'Keeper Herman Conway arrived later that season making Blore second-choice and with the arrival of Jack Weare from Wolverhampton Wanderers he became third choice 'keeper. In 1936 Crystal Palace offered him regular first team football. He played for Palace until October 1938 when he signed for Exeter City.\n"}
