{"id": "8400232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8400232", "title": "47th Street (Manhattan)", "text": "47th Street (Manhattan)\n\n47th Street is an east–west running street between First Avenue and the West Side Highway in the borough of Manhattan in New York City. Traffic runs one way along the street, from east to west, starting at the headquarters of the United Nations. The street features the Diamond District in a single block (where the street is also known as Diamond Jewelry Way) and also courses through Times Square.\n\n\nThe Diamond District is between Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan. The district was created when dealers moved north from an earlier district near Canal Street and the Bowery that was created in the 1920s, and from a second district located in the Financial District, near the intersection of Fulton and Nassau Streets, which started in 1931, and also at Maiden Lane, which had existed since the 18th century. A notable, long-time anomaly of the district was the famous Gotham Book Mart, a bookstore, which was located at 41 West 47th Street from 1946 to 2004.\n\nThe move uptown started in 1941. The district grew in importance when Nazi Germany invaded the Netherlands and Belgium, forcing thousands of Orthodox Jews in the diamond business to flee Amsterdam and Antwerp and settle in New York City. Most of them remained after World War II, and remain a dominant influence in the Diamond District. Another factor in the northward move was the co-location of finance and insurance companies who moved into the downtown districts, causing rents to drastically increase. By 1941, the Diamond Dealers Club—an exclusive club that acts as a de facto diamond exchange and has its own synagogue—officially made the move up to midtown as well.\n\nThe area is one of the primary centers of the global diamond industry, as well as the premier center for jewelry shopping in the city. It is one of the largest diamond and jewelry districts in the United States, along with Jewelers' Row, Philadelphia and Los Angeles's Jewelry District, and it is the second oldest surviving jewelry district in the United States after Jewelers' Row in Philadelphia. Total receipts for the value of a single day's trade on the block average $400 million. An estimated 90% of diamonds in the United States enter through New York. There are 2,600 independent businesses located in the district, nearly all of them dealing in diamonds or jewelry. Most are located in booths at one of the 25 \"exchanges\" in the district, and in a public corridor to 46th Street. Commission based hawkers are also a common sight and they usually solicit business for stores located on the street level.\n\nMany deals are finalized by a simple, traditional blessing (\"\", which means \"luck and blessing\") and handshake. Retailers with shops line the streets outside. At 50 West 47th Street is the Gemological Institute of America which trains gem dealers. One distinguishing figure of the district is the diamond-motif street lights illuminating the corners. The NYC Diamond District also holds three prominent trade interconnected buildings: the 580 Fifth Avenue Exchange, the DDC, Diamond Dealers Club, and the International Gem Tower. It is also steps from other landmarks such as Rockefeller Center and Radio City Music Hall.\n\nThe New York City Subway's 47th–50th Streets – Rockefeller Center station on the IND Sixth Avenue Line offers service on the . An underground concourse connects the station with the buildings of Rockefeller Center. The 49th Street station on the BMT Broadway Line offers service on the , and is accessible via a part-time booth at Seventh Avenue and 47th Street at the south end of the station.\n\nAdditionally, several New York City Bus routes running along north-south avenues stop near the street.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949299", "title": "Aerobiz Supersonic", "text": "Aerobiz Supersonic\n\nAerobiz Supersonic, known as in Japan, is a business simulation video game released for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System by Koei in North America in August 1994. It was later ported to the Genesis. It is a sequel to Koei's previous airline simulation game, \"Aerobiz\".\n\nIn the game, which is essentially the same as its predecessor, the player is the CEO of a start-up international airline. The player competes with three other such companies (either AI-controlled or other players) for dominance in the worldwide travel industry. Such dominance is obtained by purchasing slots in various airports around the world, and flying routes to and from those slots. Once a route is created, the player has control of what type of planes fly the route, the price of airfare, and numerous other variables.\n\nThe game includes numerous historical events that can help or hinder airline performance. Four different eras of play available for the player to choose. They include 1955–1975 (which depicts the dawn of jet airplanes), 1970–1990 (which depicts a period of instability, oil crises, and the end of the Cold War), 1985–2005 (which depicts the present day of economic prosperity and relative stable peace), and 2000–2020 (which depicts the replacement of jet planes with supersonic airplanes, the European Union extending to Russia, and countries trying to get airlines to fund alternative fuel research). This futuristic era was chosen by SG and Koei to be illustrated by San Francisco illustrator Marc Ericksen for the packaging art, showing two executives conferring over a holographic aircraft design in a futuristic airline terminal.\n\nAirlines must be able to achieve the goals assigned to them within 20 years; only one airline can achieve this victory with no draws permitted. If none of the airlines can achieve the goal, then all airlines lose because stalemates are not permitted at the end of the game. Tiebreakers are also not permitted because games are not usually designed to be in ties at the end of the 20-year contest. In the rare instance that all airlines go bankrupt simultaneously, then all airlines would also lose.\n\nThe simulation includes numerous historical events, including:\n\n\nThe simulation also includes hypothetical events, including:\n\n\nFrom the beginning of the game until 1986, the Eastern Bloc countries are stuck with tense relations with Western Europe, North America, and countries in the British Commonwealth. However, they have normal-excellent relations with African countries, Middle Eastern countries, countries in Central America, South America, and some Asian countries. Airplanes from Eastern Bloc countries are small inefficient gas-guzzlers that can only do medium-range flights as their longest routes. After 1986, airlines from these countries can purchase more efficient Boeing planes from the United States of America. These airplanes become even cheaper when one of the Eastern European countries joins the European Union.\n\nRussia enters in EU in 2005, so it will be much cheaper to buy Airbus planes. The latest models from Ilyushin and Tupolev are very cheap and a little bit more efficient than the previous models, so it can give the player an advantage when it comes to maximizing his profits.\n\nWith normal-tense relations with Eastern European countries until around 1985, airlines that are headquartered in Western European countries must either purchase cheap airplanes from the \"local\" market or order slightly more expensive planes from the United States of America. After Perestroika, they can purchase from any plane manufacturing company. Joining the European Union in the mid-1990s makes airplanes cheaper or more expensive depending on relations with the United States prior to the founding of the EU.\n\nNorth America's situation in the game is identical to the situation found by Western European countries. The only difference is that planes from American companies are cheaper than planes from Western European countries. Since North America has a higher tourism rating than Europe until the 1990s, North America–based airlines can afford more airplanes and routes for a better risk-profit potential than European-based airlines.\n\nNormalized relations with both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. allows all planes to be purchased by airlines headquartered in the People's Republic of China regardless of the year. However, improving relations with either country will reduce the price of the airplanes - giving the player a choice of acquiring either inefficient Soviet-made planes or efficient American-made planes at bargain prices. Like the People's Republic of China, countries that are not strongly affiliated with either NATO or Warsaw Pact may purchase from any manufacturer as long as relations are not tense (red). Relations with the country must be at least normal (yellow) in order to purchase airplanes from that country.\n\n\"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" gave the Super NES version a 7.2 out of 10, deeming it \"a different type of game - one geared more toward strategy.\" They gave the later Genesis version a 6.6 out of 10 and opined that \"As always, Koei manages to make a unique strategy game that becomes very entertaining when you really get into it.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Genesis version of the game, rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"sim fans are sure to be pleased with the level of detail.\"\n"}
{"id": "565307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565307", "title": "Apparatchik", "text": "Apparatchik\n\nAn apparatchik (; ), in Russian colloquial terms also borrowed widely into other languages, was a full-time, professional functionary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union or the Soviet government \"apparat\" (, apparatus), someone who held any position of bureaucratic or political responsibility, with the exception of the higher ranks of management called nomenklatura. James Billington describes an apparatchik as \"a man not of grand plans, but of a hundred carefully executed details.\" The term is often considered derogatory, with negative connotations in terms of the quality, competence, and attitude of a person thus described.\n\nMembers of the apparat (apparatchiks or apparatchiki) were frequently transferred between different areas of responsibility, usually with little or no actual training for their new areas of responsibility. Thus, the term apparatchik, or \"agent of the apparatus\" was usually the best possible description of the person's profession and occupation. Not all apparatchiks held lifelong positions. Many only entered such positions in middle age. Today \"apparatchik\" is also used in contexts other than that of the Soviet Union or communist countries. According to Collins English Dictionary the word can mean \"an official or bureaucrat in any organization\". According to Douglas Harper's \"Online Etymology Dictionary\", the term was also used in the meaning \"Communist agent or spy\", originating in the writings of Arthur Koestler, c. 1941.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8595060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8595060", "title": "Bangalore Tiger", "text": "Bangalore Tiger\n\nBangalore Tiger: How Indian Tech upstart Wipro Is Rewriting the Rules of Global Competition is a book published in 2006 by McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc, New York City, and authored by Steve Hamm. It focuses on what it calls the \"new breed of transnationals\" who have brought about cause for \"multinationals\" to \"beware\".\n\nSays the book's jacket: \"From its mastery of global collaboration and its market expansion strategy to its constant-improvement approach and \"zero politics\" policy, author Steve Hamm reveals the never-before-told story of how \"The Wipro Way\" of doing business is changing the world.\n\nAn Indian edition of the book was published by Tata McGraw-Hill of New Delhi. It is dated 2007, though the book was available at newsstands and bookshops in end-2006.\n"}
{"id": "37602683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37602683", "title": "Bukichi Miki", "text": "Bukichi Miki\n\nDespite being a powerful conservative politician in the Taishō and Shōwa eras, Miki remarkably never held any cabinet post. He still has a high reputation as the archetype of a behind-the-scenes power broker, and at the zenith of their power there were times when both Kanemaru Shin and Hiromu Nonaka were openly complimented by Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone for having \"surpassed Bukichi Miki\".\n\nMiki's nicknames included \"the heckling general\", \"the wily schemer\", and \"the great tanuki of Japanese politics\".\n\nHe was born in Takamatsu, then in Ehime Prefecture but now in Kagawa Prefecture, as the first son of Komon Miki, an antiques dealer. His family was not related to that of Takeo Miki.\n\nIn his second year at Takamatsu Secondary, now Kagawa Prefectural Takamatsu High School, he walked out on his bill at an udon restaurant and encouraged others to do the same, and thus was expelled from school. He transferred to Doshisha Secondary in Kyoto, now Doshisha Junior and Senior High School, but was expelled again for getting into a fight. He went to Tokyo with the help of the politician Tooru Hoshi but on 21 June 1901, the day on which Miki would go to work as a live-in student at his law office, Hoshi was assassinated.\n\nMiki was admitted into Tokyo Vocational School, called Waseda University from 1902 and on, where he counted among his classmates future politicians Ryutaro Nagai and Ikuo Oyama and baseball player Shin Hashido. While spending much of his time chasing women in Shinjuku, he earnestly studied law and practiced baseball. Although he even joined the Waseda Baseball Club at its inception, it was said that he exhibited little talent. However, his name does not appear in Bushi, the official records of the club, and he was also not a member of the Tomon Club, composed of the Waseda Baseball Club's alumni. This was also the time of his budding romance with Kaneko Amano, a woman known as \"the beauty of Waseda\" who was popular among the students and would go on to become Miki's wife. He graduated in 1904.\n\nMiki worked for a brief time as a scribe at Waseda University Library. The next year in 1905 he went to work with the Bank of Japan attached to their Moji branch. However he participated in an open-house anti-government meeting in opposition to the Treaty of Portsmouth and after giving a speech demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Taro Katsura he was charged with violating the code of conduct for civil servants and was discharged. In 1907 he passed the Higher Civil Service Examination for the judiciary and was appointed as an assistant judicial officer in the Tokyo District Court, but life as a civil servant did not suit his personality and after seven months he instead became a lawyer. The same year he married Kaneko Amano.\n\nIn 1913 Miki was elected to the Ushigome ward assembly. Soon after he ran for a seat in the House of Representatives but was defeated. In 1916 he joined the Kenseikai and in 1917 won a seat in that year's general elections to the House.\n\nMiki distinguished himself in his new role as a member of the House. Above all he more than earned his nickname, \"the heckling general\", through his trenchant criticisms of the government. He also caught the eye of Osachi Hamaguchi following his spirited debate with Home Minister Takejiro Tokonami in defense of universal suffrage. After that Hamaguchi became his political mentor.\n\nIn 1920 Miki toured Siberia for one month as a member of a committee of inquiry of the Imperial Diet concerning the Siberian expedition. The tour led Miki to the conclusion that the expedition was interference in the internal affairs of another nation inspired by the militaristic ambitions of the army who were steeped in the traditions of the Meiji oligarchy. Therefore, he wrote up an open letter and a speech for question period which held the militarists, oligarchs, and bureaucrats accountable for the war and sought to link the neutralization of these forces to the establishment of true parliamentary democracy. With a view of also using it to force the resignation of incumbent Prime Minister Takashi Hara, Miki handed in the completed manuscript to Takaaki Kato, president of the Kenseikai, through Hamaguchi. However Miki was disheartened when the manuscript was rejected by Kato and Hamaguchi who advised him to focus on internal matters for fear his revelations about the origins of the war would damage Japan's international reputation. Even so, they were both deeply impressed by the depth and detail of his work.\n\nIn June 1922 Miki was also elected to the Tokyo City Council. He formed the Shisei Kakushin Domei which emphasized cleaning up city politics and clashed with the Rikken Seiyukai-aligned Shinkokai. At that time one of his political foes in Tokyo City politics was Shinkokai member Ichiro Hatoyama, who would later become a close friend.\n\nIn January 1924, at the young age of 39 after having served only two terms in the House, Miki was promoted to the post of Kenseikai Secretary General and led the party in the general election of May 1924. The Kenseikai won a plurality of the seats, and Takaaki Kato set up his first cabinet with the support of the so-called \"three groups protecting the constitution\", the Kenseikai, the Rikken Seiyukai, and the Kakushin Club.\n\nWhen Hamaguchi Osachi, who Miki had looked up to for a long time, took office as Finance Minister, Miki was appointed the Ministry's parliamentary councillor under Hamaguchi's tutelage. In 1927 he joined the Rikken Minseito under Hamaguchi's leadership, and at the same time went on a tour of Europe. Thus, Miki had reached the pinnacle of his pre-war political career when a disaster befell him. In 1928 he was implicated in a case of bribery by Keisei Railway of the Tokyo municipal government, was convicted in court, and, for the time being, ended up leaving politics.\n\nIn 1939 he became president of the newspaper firm Hochi Shimbun. He returned to politics in 1942, winning election as an independent candidate in that year's general election. In the election, Ichiro Hatoyama also won office as an unaligned candidate. Before the war Miki and Hatoyama had been leading members of rivals parties, the Rikken Minseito and the Rikken Seiyukai. However, in wartime they were both defenders of liberalism who together resisted the military authorities, even if in the end they were both compelled to affiliate with the Imperial Rule Assistance Political Association. At that time, Hatoyama and Miki made a pact to form a government one day with Hatoyama as prime minister and Miki as Speaker of the House of Representatives. In August 1942 Hochi Shimbun was bought out by Yomiuri Shimbun.\n\nAfter the war, he took part in planning the establishment of the Liberal Party. In the elections of April 1946 the Liberal Party won a plurality and it seemed like a real possibility that Hatoyama would become prime minister, but the formation of the cabinet fell through at the last minute when Hatoyama was purged by the US occupation authorities. Shigeru Yoshida become President of the Liberal Party in Hatoyama's stead.\n\nBecause Yoshida still disliked the pre-war politicians for having been deferent to the military, he selected his cabinet in private consultation with his close advisor Joji Hayashi without discussing the matter with senior members of the Liberal Party including Miki, who was Chairman of the Executive Council, and Secretary General Ichiro Kono. The party leadership was furious, some even demanding Yoshida's removal from the party presidency, but Miki managed to calm them down by pointing out that if they withdrew their support from Yoshida then power would likely pass to the Socialist Party.\n\nThen, on 24 May 1946, two days after the formation of Yoshida's first cabinet, Miki was also purged.\n\nOn 24 June 1951, when the ban on holding office was lifted for those purged, Miki began seeking to have Prime Minister Yoshida removed in cooperation with Ichiro Kono and Hatoyama. The three were reinstated in the Liberal Party, but by now the party was completely controlled by the \"Yoshida school\" directly allied with the Prime Minister, and a promise Yoshida had made to hand back power to Hatoyama after his return had been effectively annulled.\n\nMiki, Hatoyama, and Kono thus moved towards founding a new political party. However, Hatoyama suffered a stroke and the plan fell through. Miki changed course in favor of undermining Yoshida from within the Liberal Party. Operating behind the scenes, Miki devoted himself to all manner of schemes and became leader of the anti-Yoshida movement. To combat this, Yoshida took the advice of his political adviser Tsuruhei Matsuno and jolted the pro-Hatoyama faction by calling a snap election in August 1952. On the recommendation of Kozen Hirokawa, Yoshida also expelled both Ichiro Kono and Tanzan Ishibashi from the Liberal Party on the basis of their opposition to his leadership. The fact that Miki Bukichi, the central dissident, was not expelled was said to be due to the debt of gratitude Yoshida felt to him for saving his first cabinet in 1946.\n\nThe Liberal Party won a majority government in the elections and Yoshida formed his fourth cabinet. The remainder of the pro-Hatoyama faction constituted the \"Democratization League\", essentially an opposition party operating within the ruling party. The Democratization League absented itself from the Diet when a motion of censure was tabled by the opposition parties against Minister of International Trade and Industry Hayato Ikeda for his gaffe, \"The bankruptcy and suicide of one or two small businessmen can't be avoided.\" The motion passed and Ikeda resigned.\n\nIn December 1952 the Democratization League ratcheted up the pressure on Yoshida against the backdrop of the passage of the revised draft budget. Next year, at the same time as the League arranged for Kono and Ishibashi to re-join the party, it forced the resignation of Secretary General Joji Hayashi and Chairman of the Executive Council Shuji Masutani, who were key allies of Prime Minister Yoshida. Miki was appointed Masutani's successor in the party's Executive Council. Seeking to throw the Liberal Party establishment into disarray, Miki drove a wedge between Yoshida and his ally Kozen Hirokawa by putting the idea into his head that Yoshida intended to make Taketora Ogata his successor. Then Miki slyly proposed to the Yoshida camp that Hirokawa be elevated to the position of Secretary General, presenting Yoshida with a no-win scenario in which he could either accede to the request and allow Miki to manipulate the party through Hirokawa, or refuse the request and further alienate him. In the end, Hirokawa was not made Secretary General and his behind-the-scenes split with Yoshida became definitive.\n\nOn 28 February 1953 Yoshida responded to a question from the rightist socialist representative Eiichi Nishimura by calling him a \"stupid fool\" in the Diet. Miki discussed the matter behind closed doors with the leader of the Rightist Socialist Party, Inejiro Asanuma. Asanuma was considering a motion of no-confidence against the government but Miki changed his mind and Asanuma agreed instead to table a disciplinary action against the Prime Minister himself. Miki also brought Takeo Miki together with Tadao Oasa and Kenzo Matsumura, who were veteran politicians from before the war, and reached an understanding with them, and even arranged for Hirokawa's 30-man faction to abstain from the vote. Thus, the disciplinary action was approved.\n\nMiki then talked reluctant opposition parties into tabling a motion of no-confidence against the government and entered talks with Yoshida while using the motion as a bargaining chip to urge the beleaguered Prime Minister to resign. Yoshida nevertheless turned Miki down and the Democratization League's 22 members separated from the Liberal Party. With their backing, on 14 March 1953, the House of Representatives passed the motion of no-confidence 229 votes in favor versus 218 against. Hirokawa and 16 of his followers then also split with the Liberal Party to form the Separatist Liberal Party.\n\nYoshida immediately dissolved the House and in the elections his Liberals won 199 seats, a loss of 23, but held onto their status as first party. The separatists attained only 35 seats. In November, half a year from the election, Yoshida and Hatoyama met one another and most of the separatists who were loyal to Hatoyama re-joined the Liberal Party. Only eight men refused to return, Bukichi Miki, Ichiro Kono, Takechiyo Matsuda, To Matsunaga, Umekichi Nakamura, Shinjiro Yamamura, Masanosuke Ikeda, and Kaku Ando, who together called themselves the Japan Liberal Party. Others called them \"The Eight Samurai,\" in reference to the new movie The Seven Samurai.\n\nIn January 1954 con-man Masutomi Ito was exposed for perpetrating mass investment fraud, a scheme which eventually led investigators to a ring of shipbuilders who were bribing politicians in exchange for subsidies. Liberal Party Secretary General Eisaku Sato and Political Affairs Research Committee head Hayato Ikeda were suspected of involvement. A few days earlier Yoshida's Liberals had met with the Reform Party and the Separatist Liberal Party and held negotiations with representatives of each party in the hopes of unifying the three right-leaning parties. When the talks fell through, Miki saw his chance and linked up with Hatoyama and Nobusuke Kishi of the Liberal Party as well as Reform Party members Takeo Miki and Tadao Oasa to seek the establishment of a new anti-Yoshida political party. In November 1954 the Democratic Party was constituted with Hatoyama as president, Kishi as Secretary General, and Miki as Chairman of the Executive Council.\n\nNext month Yoshida's cabinet finally resigned en masse and Hatoyama became prime minister. Half of Miki's long-held ambition for a government with Hatoyama as prime minister and himself as Speaker of the House of Representatives had been achieved. However, when the House elected its speaker immediately following the general elections, all the parties except Miki's Democratic Party banded together and put forward Liberal Party member Shuji Masutani as their joint candidate. Because of this, Miki, the candidate of the governing party who was expected to get elected as a matter of course, ended up being defeated and his dream came to nothing.\n\nOn 13 April 1955 Miki called upon the right-wing political parties to rally together and announced that should rivalries with the Hatoyama cabinet become an obstacle to the merger, the government was prepared to resign en masse. At this point Miki had been fretting over the unification of the Leftist Socialist Party with its rivals the Rightist Socialists and what's more had been told by his doctor that he had contracted cancer and would live no more than three years.\n\nAt the same time as Miki was striving to reach consensus in the Democratic Party he engaged in manoeuvres within the Liberal Party. On 15 May 1955 he met with Banboku Ono, the Chairman of the Executive Council in the Liberal Party. Ono had once been a close aide to Hatoyama but was superseded by Miki even though Miki had previously been Hatoyama's political enemy, and for that Ono despised Miki more than anyone else. Even so, Miki pleaded with Ono, cleverly appealing to his strong sense of patriotism, and won his support. Then a meeting was held between Miki and Kishi and their Liberal Party counterparts Banboku Ono and Kojiro Ishii and they officially began the process of merging their parties. On the other hand, Reform Party leaders Takeo Miki and Kenzo Matsumura fired back with their argument that conservatives should be represented by two parties rather than only one. As the debate was coming to nothing, Hatoyama blurted out while weeping that his cabinet would have to resign, and panicking at the prospect, they ended up backing the merger.\n\nHowever, the final controversy over who should be selected for the presidency of the new party was no easier. As a result, they put the presidency on the back burner and set up an interim presidential committee, agreeing to choose the president through an election after the party had been formed. Thus, the difficulty-fraught conservative merger was completed, and Japan's first unified right-wing party, the Liberal Democratic Party, was born. Miki, Hatoyama, Ono, and Taketora Ogata shared the interim presidential committee, and five months later Hatoyama was inaugurated as president of the Liberal Democratic Party. On the future of the Liberal Democratic Party, which had gotten off the ground leaving the most vexatious conflicts unresolved, Miki is well known for his assessment that the party \"would be lucky to last two or three years\".\n\nMiki was bedridden from April 1956, and his condition gradually worsened. On 4 July he died at his home in Meguro, Tokyo. The cause of death was stomach cancer. He was 71 years old.\n\nA bronze statue of Miki was constructed near Ritsurin Garden in his hometown of Takamatsu.\n\nDuring the 1917 general elections, in which Miki would be elected for the first time, the Rikken Seiyukai candidate Zenshiro Tsuboya said of Miki in a speech, \"I'm not going to name names, but there is a certain candidate who has two years worth of unpaid rent. He even owes more than one year's worth of debt to the rice merchant. Can such a man really discuss state affairs at the podium of parliament as a representative of our nation? I believe that such a candidate in these circumstances should gracefully decline to run for office.\" At the next town hall meeting Miki hit back, saying \"I've heard that a certain candidate has been going around attacking as disgraceful the fact that a man with debts is running for office. That debt-ridden candidate is I, the humble Bukichi Miki. Because I am poor, I am in debt. Though he was just called a rice merchant, that man is the rice merchant Mr. Yamashita from Yamabuki. It was said that I owe him more than one year's worth of debt, but that's not correct. Actually, I owe him more than two years' worth of debt. I also owe rent, but not two years' worth. To be more precise, the situation is that my landlord has been waiting for payment for more than three years. I want to correct this misinformation about me right now!\" The room burst into laughter and applause and one person shouted \"Nice one, debt king!\" Miki's landlord and the rice merchant Tatsujiro Yamashita were also present at the meeting and after that they both stood up at Miki's urging. Yamashita said, \"I am the rice merchant Yamashita. How about it everyone, will you please support Mr. Miki?\" That was the last time the stunned Zenshiro Tsuboya would bring up Miki's debts.\n\nDuring the 43rd session of the Imperial Diet which began on 29 June 1920, Korekiyo Takahashi, the Finance Minister in Takashi Hara's cabinet who went by the nickname \"Daruma\", was in the process of explaining the naval budget. When Takahashi said \"We will make this into a long-term plan of ten years for the army and eight years for the navy\", Miki shouted out \"Nine years for Daruma!\" This was a very witty statement using the story of the Buddhist monk Daruma Daishi who faced a wall in China's Shaolin Monastery and after doing zen meditation for nine years, achieved enlightenment. The assemblymen burst into laughter and Takahashi also stopped speaking, looked back at Prime Minister Hara in the ministers' gallery, and smiled wryly. Even Takaaki Kato and Osachi Hamaguchi, up to then well known for their stoic seriousness, famously cracked up in their seats. Also during the time when Hara was serving as prime minister, a cabinet minister was explaining the aims of a proposed piece of legislation in a somber and monotone voice as if reading a sutra. When the session adjourned Miki jeered \"Next we may burn the incense\", and the assembly burst out laughing.\n\nAt a meeting of MPs from the Imperial Rule Assistance Political Association for deciding party policy towards the Tojo cabinet's Corporate Restructuring Bill, Seigo Nakano pointed at the senior members of the IRAPA and remarked \"Swarming around the center of power, I see only sycophants. This will in the end lead to the destruction of our country. The people who are leading Japan astray are all the bootlickers in the IRAPA.\" When the mainstream IRAPA members booed Nakano, Miki abruptly stood up and famously shouted \"Shut up, all you bootlickers!\", and the hecklers immediately fell silent.\n\nAt a speaking event Miki attended during the general elections of 1952, a rival office-seeker, Toshichi Fuke, said of Miki \"After the war, we achieved equal rights for men and women, but even so one big-shot candidate keeps four mistresses! Is such an immoral man qualified to be involved in national politics?\" Miki. however, was the next one up to the podium, and he replied \"The person that the impotent candidate who stands before me calls a 'big-shot candidate' is the humble Bukichi Miki. What Bukichi Miki is thinking is, would you all prefer to give your one precious vote to this pitifully weak candidate, or to a big-shot like me? What's more, because I must strive for accuracy, I will go ahead and correct the mathematical errors of the aforementioned weak candidate right now. It was said that I have four mistresses, but actually I have five. Confusing four with five ought to be considered shameful even for a first grader. It seems like he failed to count one. However, all these women have now become old maids and aren't of use to me anymore. Even so, Bukichi Miki could never do something so inhumane as abandon them! Even today I care for them all.\" The crowd roared with laughter and approval. Miki kept his five mistresses up to his death, who lived with him and cared for his wife Kaneko. However, he was also a loving husband who had stated, \"The one for whom I have never stopped feeling true affection is definitely my wife Kaneko. It's just that I happened to fall in love with other women.\"\n\nWhile Miki was serving as Chairman of the Executive Council of the Democratic Party, the Shiun Maru disaster occurred, a deadly collision between two Japanese National Railways ferries, resulting in the resignation of JNR President Sonosuke Nagasaki. Miki proposed Shinji Sogo, who had a long career as a bureaucrat in the pre-war Japanese Government Railways, to fill his shoes and met him personally to persuade him. At the meeting Miki aggressively approached the wavering Sogo and said \"Our railway department, which has always been like a home to you, is probably on the verge of collapse due to these scandals. Are you so disloyal that you won't even try to stand and fight for your homeland when called upon?\" This led Sogo to answer \"I will never be a traitor!\" and convinced him to take up the post.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1094950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094950", "title": "Burn rate", "text": "Burn rate\n\nBurn rate is the rate at which a company is losing money. It is typically expressed in monthly terms. E.g., \"the company's burn rate is currently $65,000 per month.\" In this sense, the word \"burn\" is a synonymous term for negative cash flow. It is also measure for how fast a company will use up its shareholder capital. If the shareholder capital is exhausted, the company will either have to start making a profit, find additional funding, or close down.\n\nThe term came into common use during the dot-com era when many start-up companies went through several stages of funding before emerging into profitability and positive cash flows and thus becoming self-sustainable (or, as for the majority, failing to find additional funding and sustainable business models and thus going bankrupt). In between funding events, burn rate becomes an important management measure, since together with the available funds, it provides a time measure to when the next funding event needs to take place.\n\nSome entrepreneurs and investors say that part of the reasons behind the dot-com bust was the unsound management and financial investor practices to keep the burn rate up, taking it as a proxy for how fast the start-up company was acquiring a customer base.\n\nThe term burn rate can also refer to how quickly individuals spend their money, particularly their discretionary income. For example, Mackenzie Investments commissioned a test to gauge the spending and saving behavior of Canadians to determine if they are “Overspenders.”\n\nAside from financing, the term burn rate is also used in project management to determine the rate at which hours (allocated to a project) are being used, to identify when work is going out of scope, or when efficiencies are being lost. Simply put, the burn rate of any project is the rate at which the project budget is being burned (spent).\n\nIn earned value management, burn rate is calculated via the formula, 1/CPI, where CPI stands for Cost Performance Index, which is equal to Earned Value / Actual Cost.\n\nThe term burn rate is also used in a number of scientific settings:\n\n"}
{"id": "8795186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8795186", "title": "Canadian Football Act", "text": "Canadian Football Act\n\nThe Canadian Football Act (1974), also known in its long title as An Act respecting Canadian Professional Football, was a proposed Act by the Parliament of Canada in April 1974 designed to give a government-protected monopoly over professional football in Canada to the Canadian Football League (CFL). Although it was never signed into law, the move by the government eventually compelled the World Football League's Toronto Northmen to move to the United States as the Memphis Southmen. The spectre of the Act was again raised when John F. Bassett, the owner of the Northmen/Southmen franchise, proposed a United States Football League franchise for Hamilton, Ontario, in 1983.\n\nIn 2007, there was speculation that a similar act would develop if the National Football League attempted to expand to Toronto and thus threaten the Canadian league's existence. Such an act would likely still allow for an NFL team to play in Canada in an NFL preseason game and the CFL's off season; thus allowing for a Canadian city to host the Super Bowl if the NFL decided to host their premier event in a stadium far from an NFL city.\n\nIt is also unlikely that any future act will be passed to affect American college football, such as the NCAA and NAIA, who have or have had teams based in Canada (Simon Fraser University being the lone NCAA member in Canada) and bowl games hosted in Canadian cities, with no opposition, in part because the CFL draws some of its players from American college teams (and, in the case of bowl games, because their December and January scheduling is well after Canadian university football ends its season).\n\n\nThese facts were gathered from the actual debates held in the House of Commons from April 10 to April 28, 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "47611884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47611884", "title": "Charles Augustus Carlow", "text": "Charles Augustus Carlow\n\nCharles Augustus Carlow FRSE DL LLD (1878 – 1954) was a leading Scottish mining engineer and owner and managing director of the Fife Coal Company Ltd based in Leven, Fife.\n\nHe was born in Fife the son of Charles Carlow, also a mining engineer. He studied mining technology at Heriot-Watt and Edinburgh University.\n\nThe bulk of his life seems to have been spent living in Leven, Fife.\n\nIn 1952 he was awarded an honorary doctorate (LLD) from St Andrews University.\nHe died in St Andrews in Fife on 13 August 1954.\n\nHe was the maternal grandson of William Lindsay FRSE (1819-1884).\n\nHe was first cousin to Sir Charles Carlow Reid co-author with his son, Sir William Reid of the \"Reid Report\" on the state of British coal-mining.\n\nIn 1927 he gave Blair House and 27 acres of ground near Culross in Fife to serve as a convalescent home for elderly and injured miners. This is called the Charles Carlow Miners Convalescent Home in his memory.\n\nSee\n"}
{"id": "33421678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33421678", "title": "Civil Engineering Contractors Association", "text": "Civil Engineering Contractors Association\n\nThe Civil Engineering Contractors Association (CECA) is a United Kingdom construction organisation. Headquartered in London, it was established in November 1996 to represent the interests of civil engineering contractors.\n\nIts membership currently comprises over 350 companies, ranging from small regional businesses to companies operating across the UK and overseas. Collectively, CECA members account for 75-80% of civil engineering work undertaken in the UK.\n"}
{"id": "45150840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45150840", "title": "Delfim Ferreira", "text": "Delfim Ferreira\n\nDelfim Ferreira (1888-1960) was an important Portuguese entrepreneur, born in the town of Riba d'Ave, Vila Nova de Famalição. He was the son of the great Portuguese industrial Narciso Ferreira, who, from a small manual mill, built the largest textile enterprise that existed in Portugal in the second half of the nineteenth century.\n\nEducated at the Royal and Imperial School of Reichenberg, Delfim Ferreira, in the 1940s, intended to build a commercial shopping mall in Porto. Delfim Ferreira expanded their business to other economic sectors, including the hydroelectric power and the civil construction, contributing to the development of Vale do Ave and providing employment to many thousands of workers.\n\nHe was awarded with the Grand Cross of the Order of Industrial Merit, the Military Order of Christ, the Great Officership of the Order of Industrial Merit and the Golden Medal of the city of Vila do Conde. When he died in 1960, Delfim Ferreira was considered to be the richest man in Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "9597318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9597318", "title": "EnergyCAP", "text": "EnergyCAP\n\nEnergyCAP is a family of energy management and energy accounting software products, used for tracking, managing, processing, reporting, benchmarking, and analyzing utility bills and energy and sustainability information. EnergyCAP also interfaces with the EPA Energy Star Portfolio Manager. Multiple versions of EnergyCAP -- Enterprise, Express, and Professional -- are available to meet user functional requirements.\n\nEnergyCAP's history dates back to 1980. In response to a growing demand for energy management software when PCs were in their infancy, Steven D. Heinz founded OmniComp, Inc. in 1980 and launched the development of EnergyCAP predecessor FASER Energy Accounting. FASER was first commercially released in 1982 for utility bill verification, tracking and reporting, and the calculation of the cost avoidance attributable to energy management activities (also called Measurement & Verification). The City of Denver also uses this software to track energy usage throughout their parks system. \n\nFASER became widely used by retail chains, government, universities, school districts and property managers. By the mid-1990s, FASER's thousands of users tracked an estimated five million bills a year valued at $2 billion. FASER and OmniComp were purchased by Enron Corporation in 1996. Following Enron's bankruptcy in late 2001, Heinz acquired the energy information assets and launched Good Steward Software, which was renamed to EnergyCAP, Inc. in January 2010. The team developed a new line of energy efficiency software products called EnergyCAP. EnergyCAP, Inc. is a five-time Energy Star Partner of the Year.\n\nEnergyCAP Enterprise is software for large organizations with comprehensive energy information management needs. Users include Fortune 1,000 companies; universities; military; and city, county, and state governments. EnergyCAP Express is utility bill and energy management software for small to medium-sized organizations like colleges, towns, and small- to medium-sized businesses. EnergyCAP Professional is oriented toward measurement and verification of energy savings for certain qualifying organizations, most notably school districts.\n\nEnergyCAP offers the following features: Account Tracking, Accounts Payable or G/L Export, Bill Accruals, Bill Audits, Electronic Bills from Vendor, Energy Contract Administration, Issue Tracker, Workflow Management, Benchmarking Charts, Budgets & Forecasts, Cost Avoidance (M&V), Energy Procurement, Rate/Tariff Analysis, Weather Data, Automated Report Distribution, Custom Spreadsheets for Data Export, Energy Dashboard, PowerViews, Reports, TreeView Navigation, Energy Star Benchmarking, Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Bill Splits, Move-In Utility Vacant Expense Recovery (MUVER), Submeters & Chargebacks, Interval (Time-Series) Data, Meter Data Import, Microsoft SQL Server, Unlimited Number of Users, Customizable User Permissions, Data Import Templates, Implementation Services, and Setup Wizards.\n\nCost Avoidance (Measurement & Verification) is the calculation of the savings attributable to energy management by comparing current bills with a normalized baseline year. The cost avoidance calculation engine of EnergyCAP complies with the International performance measurement and verification protocol, the U.S. Department of Energy's standard for energy performance measurement and verification. EnergyCAP adjusts for factors like changes in building square footage, type of primary use, billing period length, and weather.\n\n"}
{"id": "57879813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57879813", "title": "George H. Hermann", "text": "George H. Hermann\n\nGeorge H. Hermann (6 August 1843 – 21 October 1914) was an entrepreneur based in Houston, Texas. He served the Confederacy in the American Civil War. He was a dealer in wood products and cattle. He invested in real estate and was an early investor in oilfields around Humble, Texas, which led to a financial windfall from a rich oil strike. He donated most of his estate to the public upon his death, including land for the Houston Museum of Fine Arts and Hermann Park. Land and other assets funded the Hermann Hospital Foundation.\n\nGeorge Henry Hermann was born on 6 August 1843 to John and Fannie (Mitchell) Hermann in Houston. Both parents were natives of Davos, Switzerland. His father fought in the Battle of Waterloo and traveled to the United States before marrying. John and Fannie traveled to the United States and Mexico before settling in Houston in 1838. John worked as a baker and in the dairy business while accumulating real estate along the way. George was one of seven children, though the only one who survived his youth.\n\nWhile still a teenager, Hermann enlisted with a Confederate Calvary company and served in that unit through most of the Civil War. After the war, he engaged in the cattle and real estate businesses, while selling firewood and lumber.\nHermann died on 21 October 1914 in Baltimore. He was interred at Glenwood Cemetery in Houston. \nHermann’s greatest legacy endures in two Houston institutions: Hermann Park and Memorial Hermann Hospital in the Texas Medical Center. \n\nHermann bequeathed an estate valued at $2.6 million to establish a hospital. The Herman Hospital Foundation generated income from the sale of Hermann’s real estate and from retaining the mineral rights to those lands. The Hermann estate also gifted land for the Houston Museum of Fine Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "32401187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32401187", "title": "Global Entrepreneurship Monitor", "text": "Global Entrepreneurship Monitor\n\nThe Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) research project is an annual assessment of the national level of entrepreneurial activity in multiple, diverse countries. Based in London, England, GEM is now the largest ongoing study of entrepreneurial dynamics in the world.\n\nThe main indicator used is called TEA (Total Early-Stage Entrepreneurial Activity), which assess the percent of working age population both about to start an entrepreneurial activity, and that have started one from a maximum of 3 years and half.\n\nThe data used for the GEM is collected from two large surveys, the Adult Population Survey (APS) and the National Expert Survey (NES). The APS surveys at least 2000* adults of each country covered by the GEM and covers the entrepreneurial aspirations of the country's population. The NES surveys a group of business and academic experts in each country with a broad range of specialties for concrete measures of country's institutional factors.\n\nEach year, the GEM assembles the survey of a minimum of 2000* adults and at least 36 experts from a country of interest into an annual report. That report comes in a downloadable PDF format. In the 2014 report, 206,000 adults from around the world anonymously participated along with 3,936 national experts. Each report published is different than the last but all annual reports include a section on the global perspective on entrepreneurship for the year. *depending on the population and the economic diversity of each country.\n\nThe GEM data is used to produce a larger model connecting a series of Entrepreneurial Framework Conditions (EFC) to the TEA, entrepreneurial aspirations, technical progress, GDP growth, and other macro economics variables. The EFCs reflect institutional factors with theoretic connections to entrepreneurship and are produced using data from the NES.\n\nThe original GEM model was revised to reflect stages of development to generalize the model's explanation to all countries. The methodology in doing so was based on a paper by Michael E. Porter, Jeffrey D. Sachs, and John W. MacArthur to reflect the differences in needed institutions at different points in a country's economic development.\n"}
{"id": "6199109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6199109", "title": "Hugo Cóccaro", "text": "Hugo Cóccaro\n\nHugo Omar Cóccaro (born in 1954) is an Argentine Justicialist Party (PJ) politician, former governor of Tierra del Fuego Province (formally Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and South Atlantic Islands).\n\nBorn in Saladillo, Buenos Aires Province, Cóccaro relocated to Tierra del Fuego at age 20 with his brother, with whom he started a construction firm. He later purchased the San Justo Estancia, a lenga beech sawmill near Río Grande. He had four daughters, and his marriage ended in separation.\n\nCóccaro entered politics in 2003, when he was elected vice-governor under Governor Jorge Colazo of the Radical Civic Union (UCR). He fell out with Colazo, however, and there were public rows between them. He became acting governor of Tierra del Fuego on October 25, 2005, when Colazo was suspended, and was confirmed in the post on December 2.\n\nHis tenure was marked for its failed support for RENASA, a provincial petroleum concern, and a subsequent impeachment attempt. Cóccaro ran for reelection in 2007, and won the first round; but he was defeated in the runoff by Fabiana Ríos, the first woman to be elected governor in the history of Argentina. \n\n"}
{"id": "45716348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45716348", "title": "Igor Hawryszkiewycz", "text": "Igor Hawryszkiewycz\n\nIgor Titus Hawryszkiewycz (born c. 1948) is an American computer scientist, organizational theorist, and Professor at the School of Systems, Management and Leadership of the University of Technology, Sydney, known for his work in the field of database systems, systems analysis, and knowledge management.\n\nHawryszkiewycz obtained his PhD in computer science from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973 with the thesis, entitled \"Semantics of data base systems.\" developed within the Project MAC.\n\nHawryszkiewycz started his academic career as lecturer in information Systems at the University of Canberra in 1975. Since 1986 he is Professor at the University of Technology, Sydney and Head of its Department of Information Systems.From 1989 to 1993 he also directed its Key Center of Advanced Computing Sciences.\n\nHawryszkiewycz's research interest is focussed on \"developing design thinking environments to provide business solutions in complex environments by integrating processes, knowledge, and social networking... [and] facilitating agility and evolution of business systems through collaboration.\"\n\n\nArticles, a selection\n\n"}
{"id": "4704404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4704404", "title": "Jaya Suprana", "text": "Jaya Suprana\n\nJaya Suprana ), (née Phoa Kok Tjiang) is an Indonesian pianist, composer, conductor, writer, cartoonist, and television presenter.\n\nJaya Suprana was born in Denpasar, Bali as a Chinese descendant but grew up within Javanese culture. He studied music at Musikhochschule Münster and Folkwang-Hochschule Essen, West Germany, between 1967 and 1976, and since then has given piano recitals worldwide, as well as composing his own music. He also presents his own national weekly talkshow called the \"Jaya Suprana Show\". His writings are published by the daily Newspaper KOMPAS, SUARA PEMBARUAN, SINAR HARAPAN and books by the publisher Elex Media Komputindo.\n\nHe also established the Indonesian Museum of Records (MURI), Rotary-Suprana Orphanage, Centre for Kelirumologi Study, and together with Aylawati Sarwono founded the Jaya Suprana School of Performing Arts which has performed wayang orang at Sydney Opera House and Unesco Paris also recital master class series with young Indonesian talended musician on international stages and in 2011 organised the Indonesia Pusaka International Piano Competition with participants from 12 countries and the gala concert at the presidential palace in Bogor attended by the president and first lady of Republic Indonesia. In 2014, Jaya Suprana performed his piano recital in the Carnegie Hall, New York, USA and organized the first Indonesian International Philosophy Symposium in the Ministry of Education and Culture of Indonesia in Jakarta.\nSuprana claims a PhD degree in philosophy and social sciences from the unaccredited Pacific Western University. He is also the Chairman of his family-run medicinal herbs producing firm, PT Jamu Cap Jago, in the Central Java capital of Semarang\nHe tours with his group Kwartet Punakawan \n\n"}
{"id": "1324511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1324511", "title": "Jean-Claude Decaux", "text": "Jean-Claude Decaux\n\nJean-Claude Decaux (15 September 1937 – 27 May 2016) was a French entrepreneur who earned his fortune in advertising. He was the founder and honorary chair of the advertising firm JCDecaux, which is now run by his sons, Jean-François Decaux and Jean-Charles Decaux.\n\nJean-Claude Decaux was the son of a shoe salesman in Beauvais, France.\n\nHe was married with three children and lived in Paris.\n\nHis death was announced on 27 May 2016.\n\nAt the age of 18, inspired by an argument with his father over the family shoe store's window display, Jean-Claude started a business creating billboards along French roadways. In 1963, legislation in France placed restrictions on billboard use which forced Decaux out of business. He founded JCDecaux in 1964. He made a deal with the city of Lyon, proposing that he would build bus shelters and keep them clean in exchange for advertising space there. The company quickly expanded to other cities.\n\nIn 1980, Decaux personally designed the Sanisette public toilet, a self-cleaning public toilet, as a replacement for the pissoirs of Paris.\n\nIn January 2015, according to \"Forbes\", he had a net worth of $6.2 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "24514791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24514791", "title": "Jesús María Caínzos Fernández", "text": "Jesús María Caínzos Fernández\n\nJesús María Caínzos Fernández (born in 1947 in Spain) is a Spanish businesspersons. He is chairman of JM Caínzos & Asociados, a European consulting firm that specializes in strategy and corporate deals (mergers and acquisitions). He is also member of the board of the IC-A (Institute of Directors) and chairman of its Professional Regulations Committee. He is member of the board of the Forum for the Protection of the Minority Shareholders and member of the Experts Committee formed by the Spanish Government to create the new Corporate Governance Code for listed companies.\n\nCaínzos has been vice chairman of BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria), vice chairman of its Executive Committee, and chairman of the Risk Committee. He had been was European president of Johnson & Johnson and president and CEO of Janssen Pharmaceutica in Spain. \n\nHe holds a degree in Economics for the Complutense University of Madrid and several postgraduate studies at INSEAD, Northwestern University, Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard University and London Business School.\n"}
{"id": "42740281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42740281", "title": "Johannes Welsch", "text": "Johannes Welsch\n\nJohannes Welsch is a German percussionist, recording engineer and producer living in Canada. He is the son of German industrialist and, on his mother's side, the grandson of European statesman . His professional approach to music production is based on his background as business school academic. He began his career teaching executive programs in Europe before entering the music industry in North America. A percussionist since the 1970s, he has been performing regularly with a large collection of gongs both as a solo performer or in collaboration with other artists since 1994. He is best known for his Deep Listening Label releases \"Sound Creation\" (2012) and \"Dunrobin Sonic Gems\" (2014). Welsch is the founder of the Dunrobin Sonic Gym, a center for the exploration, production and experience of sound and music in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.\n\nUpon studying economics at the University of Miami and management at IESE, the University of Navarra's Graduate School of Management, Welsch completed a post-doctorate year at IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland in 1991. His writings in the early 1990s applied social systems analysis to organizational dynamics. Much of his work focused on family firms, then an emerging field of investigation. From 1991 to 1993 Welsch served as the Director of Postgraduate Studies at the Universitätsseminar der Wirtschaft (USW) at near Cologne, Germany, where he taught executive programs. During the second half of the decade Welsch grew critical of management education and academia in general as evidenced by the publication \"Reflections on Professional Cynicism in Education and the Management of Education Organisations“. From 1993 to 1997 he served on the Supervisory Board of DSD Dillinger Stahlbau GmbH in Germany. From 1996 to 1999 Welsch was an International Fellow at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland.\n\nIn 2000, while attending the Omega School of Applied Recording Arts & Sciences, Welsch built a low budget, professional recording studio in Fulton, MD with Scott O'Toole, who served as head engineer. The studio recorded hundreds of local and regional artists between 2001 and 2005, including The Track Record who were signed by Rushmore Records in 2005. In 2002 Welsch was appointed to the Omega School of Applied Recording Arts & Sciences' Curriculum Advisory Board. In 2005 Welsch moved to Canada where he founded the Dunrobin Sonic Gym which he has been managing since. Artists who have recorded and/or performed at the Dunrobin Sonic Gym include Hamid Drake, , Jesse Stewart, Deep Listening Band, Pauline Oliveros, Glen Velez, Lori Cotler, Malcolm Goldstein and Elaine Keillor. In 2012 Welsch was appointed to the Board of Trustees of Deep Listening Institute.\n\nWelsch has been recording and performing with a large collection of gongs since 1994. In approaching the gong he pays special attention to the instrument's dynamic range and frequency spectrum. He typically develops soundscapes which come out of and return to silence. While the amplitude increases the gong gradually unfolds its frequency spectrum, beginning with low frequencies (fundamental), and subsequently develops a wide array of overtones (harmonics). He prefers large acoustic spaces for his performances.\n\nHis album \"Sound Creation\", an example of his solo performances, features the entire \"Sound Creation series of gongs\" made by Paiste. Released on the Deep Listening label in 2012 the album received a number of favorable reviews. Music writer Joseph Burnett notes about the production:\n\n\"Using a series of differently-sized gongs, Johannes Welsch has created a deeply resonant piece of minimal drone, as profound and overwhelming as the best deep listening by his mentor Pauline Oliveros.\" \n\nThe album credits include Anton Kwiatkowski (engineering), (liner notes), Louis Helbig (photography), and Scott O'Toole (mastering).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5946794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5946794", "title": "Jorge Sobisch", "text": "Jorge Sobisch\n\nJorge Omar Sobisch (born January 16, 1943) is an Argentine centre-right politician, formerly governor of Neuquén Province. He leads the Neuquén People's Movement and was a candidate for President of Argentina in 2007.\n\nSobisch was born in Buenos Aires and moved to Neuquén as a young boy with the military family of his father, Carlos Sobisch. He studied in Neuquén and Buenos Aires, then moved to Trelew, Chubut as a young man to work in a friend's design company. He became a graphics operator and typesetter, later establishing his own company. He completed his military service in Sarmiento, Chubut.\n\nSobisch assisted his Peronist father in founding the Neuquén People's Movement in 1961, following him into politics. The party won the Neuquén city elections in 1983 after the return of democracy and Sobisch became mayor, taking took a leading role in renewing the party. He also led the Club Atlético Independiente football club from 1971.\n\nSobisch was elected governor of the province in 1991, serving until 1995. He took over the leadership of the party in 1997. He won again as governor in 1999 and 2003, with 57% of the vote, his term expiring in 2007 when he stepped down. \n\nSobisch led the founding of the Movement of the United Provinces, a new, conservative party, and was the movement's candidate for the Presidency in 2007. He had previously formed a centre-right alliance with Mauricio Macri, although it did not survive Macri's alliance with Ricardo López Murphy (who is not on good terms with Sobisch); López Murphy was a conservative presidential candidate in both 2003 and 2007. \nSobisch is also seen as an ally of former Justicialist Party President Carlos Menem and had hoped to become the candidate of those Peronists opposed to President Néstor Kirchner. Following a scandal in his home province, concerning the April 7 death of local teachers' union member Carlos Fuentealba (who was reportedly fired upon by provincial police during a protest despite being unarmed), Sobisch was largely shunned by disgruntled Peronists who mainly backed Alberto Rodríguez Saá. Sobisch was, however, backed by crime victims' rights activist Juan Carlos Blumberg.\n\nIn 2007, Sobisch and his running mate, Jorge Asís, gained 284,161 votes in the presidential elections, amounting to 1.56% of the national vote, in sixth place. His wife of 38 years, Liliana Planas, died on December 22, 2009, after falling from their ninth story Neuquén apartment building, in what local coroners determined to be a suicide.\n\n"}
{"id": "19275420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19275420", "title": "Juno Healthcare Staffing", "text": "Juno Healthcare Staffing\n\nJUNO Healthcare Staffing is a placement service for local and foreign healthcare professionals on a full time, travel and per diem assignments to client facilities across the United States. It was founded in 2001 by Dante Raul \"DR\" Teodoro in response to the nursing shortage and rising need for healthcare professionals in the healthcare industry. Composed of only three employees in 2001, JUNO has grown into one of the biggest Filipino-owned healthcare staffing agencies in the US. Headquartered in New York, JUNO Healthcare has affiliate offices in different US States and abroad.\n\nJUNO Healthcare Group of Companies is composed of JUNO-New York City, JUNO-New Jersey, JUNO-Connecticut, JUNO-Los Angeles (CA), JUNO-San Diego (CA), JUNO-Arizona, and JUNO-Philippines.\n\nJUNO Investment Management Inc. is the parent company of all JUNO Group of Companies inclusive of JUNO Media Production Creatives, Juno Review and Foundation for God's Glory.\n\nJUNO Healthcare is ranked as one of the Hot 100 List of fastest-growing new businesses in America as featured by Entrepreneur Magazine in 2008. Certified by the Joint Commission, JUNO Healthcare Registry in Los Angeles, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25553649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25553649", "title": "Langdi", "text": "Langdi\n\nLangdi was a script commonly used by traders used to write Haryanvi, Punjabi, or Saraiki in the Indian subcontinent . Bookkeepers, known as munīm (, ), would also keep records in this script.\n\nSome scholars have claimed that Langdi is a form of Mahajani for writing in parts of Haryana. Its proper connection must be more thoroughly explored.\n"}
{"id": "1742837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742837", "title": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters", "text": "List of Australian and New Zealand advertising characters\n\nMany advertising characters used as mascots and characters by companies in Australia and New Zealand are similar to those used in the United States and the United Kingdom. There are, however, quite a number that are unique to these two nations.\n\nMany advertisements shown on New Zealand television are made in Australia, and many Australian and New Zealand companies operate similar businesses on both sides of the Tasman Sea. As such, there is considerable overlap in advertising characters and mascots found in the two countries.\n\nThe following is a list of notable mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes in Australia and New Zealand, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3824215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824215", "title": "List of CEOs of Ford Motor Company", "text": "List of CEOs of Ford Motor Company\n\n\nJohn S Gray first CEO\n\nPresident of Ford Motor Company:\n\n"}
{"id": "46994080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46994080", "title": "Loan note", "text": "Loan note\n\nA loan note is a type of financial instrument; it is a contract for a loan that specifies when the loan must be repaid and usually also the interest payable. It is similar to a promissory note but the differences can be significant in terms of consequences, especially tax consequences. Chief of these is that by specifying the interest payable, the lender may obtain a tax shield. Loan notes are simple but important instruments in business and finance. A loan note can also be conceived of as a form of deferred payment, and in the UK the tax treatment of loan notes is as either ‘qualifying corporate bonds’ (QCBs), which provide a tax shield, or as ‘non-qualifying corporate bonds’ (non-QCBs) Loan notes may contain other provisions such as convertibility into equity or other kinds of debt, in which case they are called \"convertible loan notes\". The loan note is one of the most widely used instruments in financing the entrepreneurial venture and in start-ups.\n"}
{"id": "34508054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34508054", "title": "Malvika Subba", "text": "Malvika Subba\n\nMalvika Subba () is a Nepalese media personality, beauty queen, actress, television host, social activist and entrepreneur. She graduated from Pokhara University with Masters in Mass Communication and Journalism.\n\nAt the age of 21, Malvika was crowned as Miss Nepal 2002, ever since then she has worked for Call Kantipur as TV host in Kantipur Television. In 2008, she worked for Voice of India, MTV EXIT as the Ambassador for Human Trafficking\nSubba has also been associated with Youth SpokesPerson for Action Aid's Hunger Free Campaign, HIV/AIDS Youth Leader by UNICEF and worked with Shangrila Housing as Sales and Marketing Manager in 2009–2011.\n\nIn 2008, she has acted in movies and dramas like \"God Lives in The Himalayas\", \"Good Bye Kathmandu\" and \"Hamri Shiwani\".\n\nFrom April to October 2011, she worked as the chief editor for one of Nepal's leading fashion and lifestyle magazine, Navyaata. In 2011, Subba established her own retail clothing store with in-house designers. She is the Co-Founder and Creative Director of House of Alternative Apparel also known as HAA and Himalayan Climate Initiative (HCI).\n\nIn 2015, she is the host and head judge of the third season of \"Mega Model\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33145675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33145675", "title": "McAvoy Brewing Company", "text": "McAvoy Brewing Company\n\nMcAvoy Brewing Company (founded in 1865 as Bemis & Rindge Brewery by Henry V. Bemis) was run by John H. McAvoy in Chicago, Illinois and was one of Chicago's largest breweries before Prohibition. Coinciding with the Eighteenth Amendment going into effect on January 16, 1920, the brewery closed in 1920.\n\nIn 1865, the brewery began in a three-story brick building close to the corner of South Park Avenue and 23rd Street along Lake Michigan. In the early 1870s, a malt house was constructed next to the original building, along with 4 ice houses on the western side of the avenue in 1872, 1874, 1875, and 1876. In 1878 and 1879, two more ice houses were constructed on the east side of South Park Avenue. A substantial brick barn was built in 1878 and office building was built in 1879.\n\nIn 1901, the company employed over one hundred men and the chief brewer was Fritz Hieronimus. Hieronimus learned the trade in Germany at Frankfort-on-the-Main, a well known school for brewers at the time. In 1890, Hieronimus was elected as an honorary members of the United States Brewmasters' Association. Until 1882, the officers of the company were:\nDoyle was Chicago's former Chief of Police and later became manager of the Illinois State Brewers' Association.\n\nFrom 1882 until 1920, John H. McAvoy was president of the company. McAvoy was the brother-in-law of Peter Leyendecker, who came from Germany in 1882 with his family to work with McAvoy. Leyendecker was the father of American illustrators J.C. Leyendecker and Frank X. Leyendecker. In 1889, the McAvoy Brewery, along with the Wacker & Birk Brewery were sold to an English Syndicate, the Chicago Breweries Limited. After joining the syndicate, McAvoy continued to use the same name and management. McAvoy was instrumental and securing funding to return John Brown's Fort back to West Virginia after it had been brought to Chicago in 1892 for display at the World's Columbian Exposition. In 1893, in-house bottling was installed and McAvoy was among the largest breweries in Chicago.\n\nAs the Prohibition movement began, the cultural landscape changed and the business began a downturn. In 1920, the Brewery closed, which coincided with the Eighteenth Amendment going into effect on January 16, 1920.\n\n"}
{"id": "32125561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32125561", "title": "Paul Bragiel", "text": "Paul Bragiel\n\nPaul Bragiel (born 15 September 1977 in Chicago, Illinois) is an internet entrepreneur and currently a managing partner of Bragiel Brothers\n\nBragiel, the oldest child of Mary and Walter Bragiel, was raised in Mt. Prospect and South Barrington, Illinois. In the late 1990s, he was involved in the demoscene.\n\nBragiel graduated from University of Illinois in 1999. Shortly after graduating he founded his first company, Paragon 5, with offices in Chicago and Poland. In 2004, he founded the first location-based social network, Meetro. In 2008, he founded Lefora. which was sold to Crowdgather in the summer of 2010.\n\nIn 2010, he launched i/o Ventures, a seed fund and accelerator based in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2012, he launched three more technology-focused seed funds. Savannah Fund (Sub-Saharan Africa) and Golden Gate Ventures (Southeast Asia) were created to foster entrepreneurship in those regions. Gamefounders (Eastern Europe) invests in companies building gaming-related products.\n\nIn 2015, he launched Presence Capital, a $10m venture fund investing in early-stage virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) companies.\n\nHe travels around the world to give lectures on startups and is an advisor to governments on their technology and entrepreneurship policy including Philippines, Singapore, Brazil and Tanzania.\n\nIn 2013, Bragiel trained in cross country skiing in Finland with a view to competing in the 2014 Sochi Olympics under the Colombian flag. In order to participate, Bragiel obtained Colombian citizenship by presidential decree and was soon globally addressed as the man who was hacking his way into the Olympics.\n\nFor the 2016 Summer Olympics, Bragiel joined the Tonga delegation as team attaché.\n\n"}
{"id": "6903579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6903579", "title": "Performance supervision system", "text": "Performance supervision system\n\nA performance supervision system (PSS) is a software system used to improve the performance of a process plant. Typical process plants include oil refineries, paper mills, and chemical plants.\n\nThe PSS gathers real-time data from the process control system, typically a distributed control system. Using this data, the PSS can calculate performance metrics for process equipment, controls, and operations.\n"}
{"id": "29473303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29473303", "title": "Peter H. Appel", "text": "Peter H. Appel\n\nPeter H. Appel (born 1964) was the administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA). From 2009 to 2011 Appel was the Obama Administration point person on transportation technology issues and research. He left RITA in late 2011 for the private sector to work on emerging technologies in the transportation industry.\n\nMr. Appel has a Bachelor of Science degree in economics and computer science from Brandeis University and a Master of Science degree in transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nHe worked for the global management consulting firm of A.T. Kearney, Inc., where he led business improvement initiatives for clients in the private and public sectors, with a focus on Transportation and Infrastructure. Mr. Appel has worked in the transportation field since the late 1980s, and has supported organizations in the railroad, trucking, airline, and ocean shipping industries with growth strategy, supply chain improvement, post-merger integration, public-private partnerships, and other key business and policy issues. Previously, he served as the Special Assistant to the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, and as Assistant Director for Pricing and Yield Management at Amtrak.\n\nHe was confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) on April 29, 2009. During his tenure at RITA, Appel worked with Secretary Ray LaHood to advance key U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) initiatives by leveraging effective research and cross-modal coordination. These initiatives have included the Distracted Driving Summit, which brought key transportation researchers, advocates, decision makers and other leaders together to address this growing safety issue; the bolstering of USDOT Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Program to best improve safety, efficiency, and environmental sustainability across all modes of surface transportation; and the establishment of the Department's Safety Council. Appel coordinated DOT's research programs associated with railroads, aviation, maritime transportation and vehicles. As administrator of RITA, he also coordinated DOT efforts on distracted driving and research gathering statistical data about the various transportation modes.\n"}
{"id": "54687646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54687646", "title": "Raymond Pelgrims de Bigard", "text": "Raymond Pelgrims de Bigard\n\nRaymond Pelgrims de Bigard (2 April 1875 to 14 May 1955) was a Belgian industrialist, famous for the conservation and restoration of historic castles.\n\nDe Bigard became wealthy at the beginning of the 20th century. During the First World War, however, his activities were destroyed. He gained national fame in rescuing multiple important residences with his private fortune, personally owning multiple castles. In 1903 he bought Bijgaerden Castle, former residence of the Lord of Saventhem and Sterrebeke. He restored the castle long before it became a protected monument in 1940.\n\nBesides Groot-Bijgaarden Castle, he saved Beersel Castle.\n\nIn 1934 he founded \"Les Demeures Historiques de Belgique\".\nFor his efforts he received royal gratitude.\n\nHis son, Eugeen-Willy Pelgrims de Bigard, inherited his castles.\n"}
{"id": "46816686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46816686", "title": "Redundancy problem", "text": "Redundancy problem\n\nIn international finance, the redundancy problem, also known as the n − 1 problem, is a problem of inequality of the number of policy instruments and the number of targets at the international level, suggested by Robert Mundell in . \n\nThis problem does not occur at the one-country level.\n\nSuppose the number of countries in the world is \"n\". Because this world is closed, one country's balance of payments surplus must be equal to another's deficit, and vice versa. Thus the sum of all countries' net payments positions must be zero. Therefore, if \"n\" − 1 countries out of \"n\" countries have determined their balances of payments, that of the \"n\"th country is determined automatically. This fact implies that, if all of the \"n\" countries have payments objectives, only \"n\" − 1 countries can achieve the payments objectives. In other words, all of the payments objectives can not be achieved simultaneously.\n\nSimilarly, if there are \"n\" currencies in the world, only \"n\" − 1 exchange rates can be \"independent\" because the exchange rate is a price of one money relative to another. Other rates which are not independent are calculated as cross rate. \n\nThere are only \"n\" − 1 countries to be determined, which implies the \"n\" th country is required to refrain from intervening its exchange rate. Benign neglect is one example for this fact.\n"}
{"id": "14673824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14673824", "title": "Remi Vermeiren", "text": "Remi Vermeiren\n\nRemi Vermeiren (born 23 February 1940 in Dendermonde) is a Belgian banker and businessman.\n\nHe went to high school at the Royal Athenaeum of Dendermonde and graduated as licentiate in commercial and financial sciences at the Hoger instituut voor Handels- en Bestuurswetenschapen in Brussels (evening education).\n\nHe started his career at the Kredietbank (KBC), and became President of the board of directors of the KBC Group at the merger of KBC, ABB and CERA in 1998. He is a leading member of the business club De Warande. He is a member of the board of Cumerio and since 2005 non-executive, independent director of DevGen.\n\nRemi Vermeiren is one of the authors of \"The manifesto for the separation of Belgium\" (Dutch: Het Manifest voor de opsplitsing van België) which was drafted by the think tank \"In De Warande\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20374618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20374618", "title": "Sadegh Mahsouli", "text": "Sadegh Mahsouli\n\nSadegh Mahsouli (, born 9 March 1959) is an Iranian politician who was Minister of Interior from 2008 to 2009 and Minister of Welfare and Social Security from 2009 to 2011. He was appointed to this post on 19 November 2009, as part of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's second cabinet after received vote of from Parliament. From 24 March 2008 to 9 August 2009, he was Minister of Interior of Ahmadinejad's first cabinet.\nHe was succeed Ali Kordan who was impeached by Parliament in November 2008.\n\nMahsouli withdrew his nomination once when the president nominated him for the position of oil minister in 2005 after admitted to Iranian parliament that he was worth $160 million.\n\nIn 2011, it was announced that Ministry of Welfare will be merged with Ministry of Labour and Mahsouli will be leave cabinet after it.\n\nMahsouli was in charge of the Ministry of Interior when the alleged vote rigging happened in Iran's presidential election in June 2009.\n\nOn June 18, a letter was presented by Iranian filmmakers Marjane Satrapi (director of the critically Acclaimed Film Persepolis) and has since been widely circulated with Mousavi Supporters. No verification of the letter has been provided. The letter was allegedly written by Interior Minister Sadegh Mahsouli to Ayatollah Khamenei on June 13 (a day after the elections), states the fraud and lists the authentic vote count. A quick view on the letter shows that it was fake. The letter was roughly translated as follows;\n\n\"\"Salaam Aleikum.\"\n\n\"Following your concerns regarding the results of the presidential election and per your given discretion to have Dr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remain as president during this sensitive juncture. Therefore, everything has been planned in a way that the public announcement will be made in accordance with the interests of the regime and the revolution. All necessary precautions have been taken to deal with any unexpected events of election aftermath and the intense monitoring of all the parties' leaders as well as the election candidates.\"\n\n\"However, some believe that the real votes counted are as follows:\"\n\n\"Total number of votes: 43,026,078\"\n\n\"Mir Hossein Mousavi: 19,075,623\"\n\n\"Mehdi Karoubi: 13,387,104\"\n\n\"Mahmoud Ahmadinejad: 5,698,417\"\n\n\"Mohsen Rezaee: 3,754,218\"\n\n\"Void: 38,716\"\n\n\"Minister of Interior\"\n\n\"Sadegh Mahsouli\"\"\n"}
{"id": "6391528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391528", "title": "Saki Macozoma", "text": "Saki Macozoma\n\nSakumzi Justice Macozoma (Saki) (born 1957) is a South African former political prisoner who is now one of South Africa's most prominent businessman and a leader in civil society.\n\nMacozoma was born in Port Elizabeth on 12 May 1957. He studied political science, economics and journalism at the University of South Africa (Unisa) and at Boston University in the USA. He holds a BA degree from Unisa.\n\nAfter spending five years in prison alongside Nelson Mandela on Robben Island for anti-apartheid activities he joined the South African Council of Churches. He also worked for the African National Congress (ANC) and South African Breweries. He became an ANC Member of Parliament in 1994 but left the legislature in 1996 to become managing director of Transnet Limited, South Africa's largest parastatal, that controls South Africa's rail network and harbours. During this time he was also chairman of South African Airways.\n\nMacozoma is one of a small group of former ANC politicians who left politics and rapidly became successful in the business world.\n\nHe is chairman of Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining (Pty) Limited, international investment house,Safika Holdings and Ntsimbintle Mining BEE. Ntsimbintle Mining BEE, owned by a number of Black Economic Empowerment groups and Safika Resources Limited a 100% owned subsidiary of Safika Holdings Limited, have a 74% interest in Ntsimbintle Newco Mining that in turn own a 50.1% interest in Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining (Pty) Limited. OM Holdings Limited, a Singapore based Australian Stock Exchange quoted company, own a 26% interest in Ntsimbintle Newco Mining. Jupiter Mining, a public unquoted Australian company, own 49.9% of Tshipi é Ntle Manganese Mining (Pty) Ltd. The Pallinghurst co-investors, composed of POSCO, AMCI, Energy and Minerals Group, Pallinghurst Resources and Investec own 86.8% of Jupiter Mines Limited. Tshipi abandoned its sale of the company and will no longer IPO in South Africa as previously planned. Jupiter Kalahari (Mauritius) Limited, 100% owned subsidiary of Jupiter Mining Limited, exited a joint venture agreement with OM Tshipi(s)PTE on 11th April 2017. The venture marketed all Manganese ore produced at the Tshipi Borwa Mine. OM Tshipi(s)PTE will continue to market Manganese ore from Tshipi Borwa mine. \n\nMacozoma is Deputy Chairman of Volkswagen South Africa, deputy chairman of Vodacom South Africa, Chairman of Credit Suisse Standard Security and Lliso Consulting. From 2007 to December 2013, Macozoma was chairman of Liberty Holdings. He resigned to concentrate on his Safika business interests. Before joining Standard Bank he was chief executive of New Africa Investments Limited (Nail), a publicly listed investment company with a broad portfolio that included radio stations, outdoor media and the Hertz car rental company.\n\nMacozoma is well known for his work in civil society and is a former chairman of the Council of Higher Education and former chairman of the University of Witwatersrand council. He is a member of the Board of Governors of Rhodes University and chairman of the Kwazulu–Natal Philharmonic Orchestra.\nMr. Macozoma has also served as president of Business Leadership South Africa and of the President's Big Business Working Group and formerly co-chairman of the Business Trust.\n\nHe was a member of the National Executive Committee of the African National Congress from 1991 to 2008.\n\nIn 2005 Billy Masethla, then director of South Africa's National Intelligence Agency (NIA), was arrested and charged with illegally conducting surveillance of Mr Macozoma and his family.\n\nOn 28 February 2009 Mr. Macozoma briefly joined Congress of the People(COPE), a party that broke away from the ruling African National Congress in 2008. Mr Macozoma is now politically unaffiliated.\n\nIn 2012 Macozoma and former president Nelson Mandela were together awarded the University of South Africa's (UNISA) highest honour, a Calabash award and received the university’s first Robben Island alumnus award, designed to honour those imprisoned by the apartheid regime because they fought against the system of State oppression.\n\nThe Anglican Church of Southern Africa honoured Macozoma when the Most Rev'd Thabo Makgoba, Archbishop of Cape Town admitted him to the Order of Simon of Cyrene at a meeting of the church’s Provincial Synod in Benoni, Gauteng on 1 Oct 2013\n\n"}
{"id": "803423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803423", "title": "SimFarm", "text": "SimFarm\n\nSimFarm: SimCity's Country Cousin is a video game in which players build and manage a virtual farm. It was developed by Maxis and released in 1993 as a spin-off of \"SimCity\".\n\nMirroring duties on a real farm, \"SimFarm\" puts players in charge of building up the land, placing the buildings, buying and selling livestock and planting crops. A weather and season system are in place as well, presenting the same kind of challenges found in a real-world farm. As with \"SimCity\", there are disasters that can wreak havoc on the player's farm. Tornadoes, droughts, pests, and dust storms are some of the events that can disrupt farm crops and harvests.\n\n\"SimFarm\" also has a small town included in its simulation. This town is reminiscent of \"SimCity\" in its form and function. The player may interact with the town occasionally by suggesting new tile types and joining competitions with livestock (such as sending in a prize pig to potentially earn a blue ribbon and a cash prize.) Suggesting an airport to be built in the town will usually cause its construction, thus unlocking the ability to buy and use a crop duster.\n\nThe homestead in \"SimFarm\" is where the player lives and is expanded at the beginning of each game year if the player has made enough money in the previous year.\n\n\"SimFarm\" allows the player to choose a location derived from the region and climate of one of nine areas of the US or to design one's own climate by selecting average winds, rainfall, and temperatures.\n\nThe game package also included a teachers guide to teaching with \"SimFarm\" with black line masters for photo copying for the class and a users manual. These were printed and included in the box.\n\nEquipment is necessary to maintain your farm and bring your crops to harvest. Structures store equipment, livestock, seeds, etc. The minimum equipment required to bring one field to harvest is one tractor, one planter, one plow, one harvester, one truck, and one trailer. The crops are the main revenue-raising item in \"SimFarm\". All crops have specific maturity cycles, water requirements, temperature requirements, and resistance to pests, weeds, and diseases.\n\nThere are four types of livestock in \"SimFarm\", all of which have specific food requirements, need water, and breed new livestock. Animals' value can be increased by making a barn available for their use.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" in 1993 approved of the game's graphics and documentation. The magazine concluded that \"it's not perfect, but learning how to \"SimFarm\" is a lot of fun\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7085851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7085851", "title": "Snakes in Suits", "text": "Snakes in Suits\n\nSnakes in Suits: When Psychopaths Go to Work is a 2006 non-fiction book by industrial psychologist Paul Babiak and criminal psychologist Robert D. Hare. \n\nThe text covers the nature of psychopaths in the context of employment and purports to explain: how psychopaths manipulate their way into work and get promoted, the effects of their presence on colleagues and corporations, and the superficial similarities (and fundamental differences) between leadership skills and psychopathic traits. The work is interlaced with fictional narratives illustrating how the factual content applies to real-life situations. Characteristics of manipulators are described as shifting to meet stereotypical gender expectations: a female psychopath might make full use of the passive, warm, nurturing, and dependent sex-role stereotype in order to get what she wants out of others and a male psychopath might use a macho image, intimidation, and aggression to achieve satisfaction of his desires. The authors posit that around 1% of senior positions in business are psychopaths.\n\nThe authors describe a \"five phase model\" of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power: entry, assessment, manipulation, confrontation, and ascension. In the entry stage, the psychopath will use highly developed social skills and charm to obtain employment into an organisation. At this stage it will be difficult to spot anything which is indicative of psychopathic behaviour, and as a new employee you might perceive the psychopath to be helpful and even benevolent. Once on to the assessment stage, the psychopath will weigh you up according to your usefulness, and you could be recognised as either a pawn (who has some informal influence and will be easily manipulated) or a patron (who has formal power and will be used by the psychopath to protect against attacks).\n\nManipulation involves the psychopath creating a scenario of “psychopathic fiction” where positive information about themselves and negative disinformation about others will be created, where your role as a part of a network of pawns or patrons will be utilised and you will be groomed into accepting the psychopath's agenda. Once on to the confrontation stage, the psychopath will use techniques of character assassination to maintain their agenda, and you will be either discarded as a pawn or used as a patron. Finally, in the ascension stage, the role of the subject as a patron in the psychopath’s quest for power will be discarded, and the psychopath will take for himself/herself a position of power and prestige from anyone who once supported them.\n\nA review of \"Snakes in Suits\" by \"The Australian\" called it \"a lay guide to corporate psychopaths.\" and concluded \"However wooden in parts, Snakes in Suits is a valuable addition to any business library.\"\n\n\"Snakes in Suits\" has also been reviewed by \"Publishers Weekly\", \"BookList\", \"Psychology Today\", \"California Bookwatch\", \"Security Management\", \"Canadian Business\", and \"Finweek\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35670957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35670957", "title": "Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute", "text": "Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute\n\nThe Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute or SWF Institute, or SWFI, is a global corporation analyzing public asset owners such as sovereign wealth funds and other long-term governmental investors. Initially, the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute focused solely on sovereign wealth funds. It has branched out to cover all types of public institutional investors. The institute is a financial data vendor but provides information to the media as well. It was founded by Michael Maduell and Carl Linaburg in late 2007.\n\nSWFI sells data subscriptions to asset managers, banks, researchers, universities, governments, institutional investors, asset owners, corporations, law firms and other entities.\n\nThe SWFI came out with the Linaburg-Maduell Transparency Index in 2008. It is a 10-point scale based on ten principles of transparency, each adding one point to the index rating. The index is used by sovereign wealth funds in their annual reports.\n\nThe SWFI tracks direct deals in sovereign wealth funds. The value of global direct deals by sovereign-wealth funds hit $50.02 billion in the first half of 2014.\n\nSWFI tracks the assets of sovereign wealth funds, pensions, endowments and other asset owners. Norway's sovereign wealth fund crossed $1 trillion in assets in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "55416543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55416543", "title": "Stephen Paddock", "text": "Stephen Paddock\n\nStephen Craig Paddock (April 9, 1953October 1, 2017) was an American mass murderer responsible for the 2017 Las Vegas shooting, in which he opened fire into a crowd of approximately 22,000 concertgoers attending a country music festival on the Las Vegas Strip. The incident is the deadliest mass shooting by a lone shooter in United States history, with 58 fatalities (excluding Paddock) and 851 injuries (including over 400 by gunfire). Paddock committed suicide in his hotel room from a self-inflicted gunshot wound.\n\nPaddock lived in Mesquite, Nevada, and was a real-estate investor, property manager, retired accountant, amateur pilot, and avid video poker gambler.\n\nPaddock was born in Clinton, Iowa. The family lived in Clinton at the time. He grew up in Tucson, Arizona, and the Sun Valley neighborhood of Los Angeles, as the eldest of four sons of Benjamin Paddock. Benjamin was a bank robber who was arrested in 1960 when Stephen was seven years old. Benjamin was later convicted and escaped prison in 1969, subsequently appearing on the FBI's most-wanted list. According to Stephen's brother, they never really knew their father as he was never with their mother.\n\nPaddock graduated from John H. Francis Polytechnic High School in 1971, and from California State University, Northridge in 1977, with a degree in business administration.\n\nPaddock worked as a letter carrier for the U.S. Postal Service from 1976 to 1978. After that, he worked as an Internal Revenue Service agent until 1984. Then, he was a federal auditor for one year, in 1985, focusing on defense contractors. Toward the end of the 1980s, Paddock worked for three years as an internal auditor for a company that later merged to form Lockheed Martin. He is known to have run a real-estate business with his brother Eric. He lived in the Greater Los Angeles Area and owned personal property in areas including Panorama City, Cerritos, and North Hollywood from the 1970s to early 2000s. He also owned two apartment buildings in Hawthorne, California. In addition, he owned an apartment complex in Mesquite, Texas, which he sold in 2012.\n\nRelatives said Paddock was worth at least when he sold off the real-estate business. Among his most profitable investments was an apartment complex purchased in 2004, which gave him more than $500,000 in annual income by 2011. IRS records show he made $5–6 million in profits from its sale in 2015.<ref name=\"Allen/Ax\"></ref>\n\nPaddock was an avid gambler, and although the extent to which he profited from it is not clear, his reported gambling winnings might have been substantial. He was sometimes seen in high-limit rooms, but he was not well known among high-stakes gamblers in Las Vegas and was not considered a \"whale\" (high roller) by the casinos. His game of choice was video poker, which he had played for over 25 years. He usually gambled after dark and slept during the day; he disliked being out in the sun.\n\nPaddock was married and divorced twice. He was first married from 1977 to 1979, and for the second time from 1985 to 1990, both marriages in Los Angeles County, California. Family members say he stayed on good terms with his ex-wives. His brother Eric said that Stephen had no political or religious affiliations of any kind. However his last ex-wife and Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo reported that he was a Trump supporter; his ex-wife also said he was an atheist. \n\nPaddock lived in Texas and in California, and then in a retirement community in Melbourne, Florida, from 2013 to 2015. In 2016, he moved from Florida to another retirement home in Mesquite, Nevada. According to property records, he bought a new house in Mesquite in January 2015, and sold his two-bedroom home in Melbourne. Paddock lived in Mesquite for several years with his girlfriend whom he met in Reno, Nevada.<ref name=\"A/D-Oct4\"></ref> According to neighbors, they also lived together in Reno. Many Mesquite residents recalled only seeing him around town; those familiar with Paddock described him as someone who did not speak much and kept a low profile. The local gun owner community never saw him at any of the gun clubs or shooting ranges, including makeshift ones in the nearby desert.\n\nAn Australian acquaintance said he met Paddock in the United States and in the Philippines. He described Paddock as intelligent and methodical. In his account, Paddock claimed to have won a lot of money by applying algorithms to gambling on machines. Paddock was conversant in gun laws and in defending his view of the Second Amendment. The acquaintance considered Paddock a generous man whenever he and his girlfriend visited him.<ref name=\"Robertson/Smith\"></ref>\n\nIn 2010, Paddock applied for and received a United States passport. He went on 20 cruise ship voyages, visiting several foreign ports including in Spain, Italy, Greece, Jordan, and the United Arab Emirates. He was accompanied by his girlfriend on nine of them. They went to the Philippines together in 2013 and 2014. During the last year of his life, they traveled on a cruise to the Middle East. Paddock had his pilot's license since at least 2004 and owned two small planes.\n\nPaddock's only recorded interaction with law enforcement was a minor traffic citation years before the shooting, which he settled in court.<ref name=\"N/P:1\"></ref> According to court records, Paddock also sued the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas in September 2012, claiming he \"slipped and fell on an obstruction on the floor\" and was injured as a result; the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice in October 2014.\n\nDuring his last months, Paddock reportedly smelled of alcohol from early morning, and appeared despondent. He was reported to have filled three prescriptions for the anti-anxiety drug Valium, in 2013 and again in 2016, and finally 50 tablets of 10-milligrams each four months before the shooting in June 2017. The chief medical officer of the Las Vegas Recovery Center said the effects of the drug can be magnified by alcohol, as confirmed by Dr. Michael First, a clinical psychiatry professor at Columbia University.\n\nDuring an interview with local CBS affiliate KLAS-TV, Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo said Paddock had reportedly been losing \"a significant amount of wealth\" since September 2015, which led to him having \"bouts of depression\".\n\nPaddock's gun purchases spiked significantly between October 2016 and September 28, 2017, just 2 days before the shooting. He purchased over 55 firearms, the majority of them rifles, according to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. He also purchased a number of firearm-related accessories. Prior to that, he purchased approximately 29 firearms between 1982 and September 2016, mainly handguns and shotguns.\n\nAt his suggestion, two weeks before the attack, his girlfriend went to her native country, the Philippines. Paddock bought her a surprise airline ticket and soon after wired her $100,000 to buy a house there. He was spotted in Las Vegas with another woman, reported by investigators to be a prostitute. It has been confirmed that she was not an accomplice and was not considered a suspect. Her name has not been released. Two days prior to the shooting, Paddock was recorded by a home surveillance system driving alone to an area for target practice located near his home.\n\nIn a jailhouse interview with an unemployed chef who claimed that he had offered to sell Paddock schematics for automatic firearms, the chef said that Paddock had spoken of anti-government conspiracies, and had claimed FEMA's actions after Hurricane Katrina were \"a dry run for law enforcement and military to start kickin’ down doors and … confiscating guns.\" The man went on to say he thought Paddock was \"another internet nut, you know, watching too much of it and believing too much of it.\"\n\nOn the night of October 1, 2017, at 10:05 p.m., Paddock opened fire from his hotel room onto a large crowd of concertgoers at the Route 91 Harvest music festival on the Las Vegas Strip, killing 58 people and wounding 851 others.\n\nPaddock meticulously planned the attack. On September 25, six days before the shooting, he checked into a room on the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Hotel with 10 shooting range bags and a computer. On September 29, he moved into another suite connected to the first one; both rooms overlooked the festival grounds. He stayed in both in the days leading up to the shooting. After Paddock killed himself, the police found 23 rifles and one handgun inside his rooms. They included 14 .223-caliber AR-15-type rifles, eight .308-caliber AR-10-type rifles, one .308-caliber Ruger American bolt-action rifle, and one .38-caliber Smith & Wesson Model 342 revolver, all very expensive, according to a law enforcement source. His arsenal included a large quantity of ammunition in special high-capacity magazines, holding up to 75, or up to 100 cartridges each. Some of the rifles were resting on bipods, and were equipped with high-tech telescopic sights. All fourteen AR-15-type rifles were outfitted with bump fire stocks that allow semiautomatic rifles to fire rapidly, simulating fully-automatic gunfire. Audio recordings of the attack indicated Paddock used these stocks to fire at the crowd in rapid succession.\n\nAt some point during the attack on the concertgoers, Paddock – who had placed a baby monitor camera on a service cart outside his room – fired about 200 rounds through his door. The shots wounded approaching hotel security guard Jesus Campos. The unarmed Campos had attempted to enter the 32nd floor first at 9:59 p.m. on an unrelated matter, but he found the door to the hallway screwed shut by Paddock. At 10:05 p.m., Paddock began firing thousands of rounds in rapid succession at the crowd below. He stopped shooting ten minutes later at 10:15 p.m. It is unclear why.\n\nAccording to chronology of the events established by the authorities in the following days, the first two police officers reached the 32nd floor of the hotel at 10:17 p.m. A minute later, they were shown the location of his door. Between 10:26 and 10:30 p.m., an additional eight LVMPD officers joined them and began clearing other suites along the 32nd floor hallway. At 10:55 p.m., eight SWAT team members entered the 32nd floor through the second stairwell nearest to Paddock's suite. Once all the other rooms on the floor had been cleared, at 11:20 p.m. more than an hour after the first two officers arrived, and 65 minutes after Paddock had ceased firing, the police breached his door with an explosive charge and entered the room. Paddock was found dead inside his suite from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head.\n\nIn addition to the firearms and accessories found in Paddock's hotel room, there was a note that reportedly included handwritten calculations about where he needed to aim to maximize his accuracy. The note contained only the actual distance to the target, his own elevation, and the bullet trajectory relative to the line of fire. There were also a number of laptops in the suite, one of which was missing a hard drive. Computer forensics discovered hundreds of images of child pornography. Coincidentally his brother Bruce was arrested in North Hollywood on charges of possessing over 600 child pornography images.\n\nAmmonium nitrate, often used in improvised explosive devices, was found in the trunk of his car, along with 1,600 rounds of ammunition and of tannerite, a binary explosive used to make explosive targets for gun ranges. However, investigators clarified that while Paddock had \"nefarious intent\" with the material, he did not appear to have assembled an explosive device. An additional 19 firearms were found at his home.\n\nAccording to police, Paddock acted alone. His motive remains unknown. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claimed responsibility, but United States law enforcement officials have given no evidence of a connection between Paddock and ISIL. There has been some discussion around brain pathology initially thought to be benign as a possible contributor. Paddock's remains were sent to Stanford University to receive a more extensive analysis of his brain. The Stanford pathologists found no abnormalities present within the brain.\n\nInvestigators believe that he was obsessed with cleanliness and possibly had bipolar disorder. Although a doctor did offer him antidepressants, he only accepted anxiety medication. The doctor also described Paddock as \"odd\" and showing \"little emotion\". Psychologists ex post facto have noted a distinct similarity between Paddock's demeanor and the psychological construct Alexithymia, which might have modulated his decision to conduct the shooting given its association with various mass murderers throughout history. It was reported that he was fearful of medication and often refused to take it.\n"}
{"id": "44932240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44932240", "title": "Tareq Khouri", "text": "Tareq Khouri\n\nTareq Khouri (; 1 December 1967 in Amman) is a Jordanian businessman and former president of Al-Wehdat SC and he is a deputy to the Parliament of Jordan.\n"}
{"id": "53330131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53330131", "title": "The Flame Broiler", "text": "The Flame Broiler\n\nThe Flame Broiler is an American chain of quick service restaurants founded in Fullerton, California in 1995. The Flame Broiler promotes itself as a healthy alternative to competing fast food retailers, with a simple menu consisting of rice bowls. Since its founding, the company has grown to over 200 locations in 7 states.\n"}
{"id": "29005445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29005445", "title": "Tim and Nina Zagat", "text": "Tim and Nina Zagat\n\nNina Zagat and her husband Tim Zagat (Eugene Henry Zagat, Jr.) (b. 1940, New York City) (pronounced /zəˈɡæt/, rhymes with \"the cat\") are the founders and publishers of Zagat Restaurant Surveys. They met at Yale Law School and were both practicing attorneys when they founded Zagat Surveys.\n\nThe Zagats got married during law school, graduated in 1966, and moved to New York where they became corporate lawyers. Nina Zagat was an associate with the Wall Street white shoe firm Shearman & Sterling and was most notable for her role in the administration of the Seward Johnson estate. Later they both got jobs in Paris, he at office of the Hughes Hubbard law firm and she at the Shearman & Sterling office. While there, they started compiling their own list of Parisian restaurants, of what they liked and didn't like, and conceived the idea for a new type of restaurant ratings guide.\n\nWhen they returned to New York, they solicited the opinions of friends about New York restaurants, and the resulting compilation eventually became \"Zagat\". The couple published their first guide in 1982. It was for New York City and it sold 7,500 copies in local bookstores. Two years later, it was selling at 40,000 copies per year and they quit their jobs as corporate lawyers to devote full-time to the enterprise.\n\nOne reviewer described the methodology: \"The philosophy behind the Zagat Survey is that instead of one lengthy critical review of a restaurant, the eating public is better served by a rating based on hundreds of responses. By tabulating the responses to detailed surveys, the Zagat Survey rates restaurants on a 30-point scale in the categories of food, décor, service and cost. It also provides price estimates and a pithy, paragraph-sized description.\"\n\nThe company expanded to include other cities and market segments such as hotels, stores and clubs; in early 2008, the couple tried to sell the company for $200 million, but then withdrew the sale when they could not find prospective buyers at that price. One reviewer wrote: \"The Zagat Survey was once the sine qua non of restaurant guidebooks. Aside from a review in the paper, the survey's 30-point scale for food, service, and décor—and its quirky comments submitted by readers—was pretty much all that mattered to restaurateurs. While the book's ratings are still highly influential—and while the company remains highly profitable—the guide is no longer the indispensable possession it once was and it's clear that its influence has waned in recent years.\" The relative decline was attributed to the company's \"online strategy\" which made the guide only available to paying subscribers. In September 2011, the company was acquired by Google for a reported $151 million.\n\nThe Jewish-American couple have two sons, Ted and John, and live on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York.\n\nOn November 15, 1990, Tim Zagat was watching \"Dances With Wolves\" at a Loews movie theater in New York City. A man, seated in the same row, made loud comments before the movie began. During the film, the man stabbed Zagat until an anonymous moviegoer pulled the attacker off of Zagat. The attacker fled out a side exit but police apprehended the suspect a few days later. Zagat received superficial wounds and was taken to Roosevelt Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "40624374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40624374", "title": "Transformation in economics", "text": "Transformation in economics\n\nTransformation in economics refers to a long-term change in dominant economic activity in terms of prevailing relative engagement or employment of able individuals.\n\nHuman economic systems undergo a number of deviations and departures from the \"normal\" state, trend or development. Among them are Disturbance (short-term disruption, temporary disorder), Perturbation (persistent or repeated divergence, predicament, decline or crisis), Deformation (damage, regime change, loss of self-sustainability, distortion), Transformation (long-term change, restructuring, conversion, new “normal”) and Renewal (rebirth, transmutation, corso-ricorso, renaissance, new beginning).\n\nTransformation is a unidirectional and irreversible change in dominant human economic activity (economic sector). Such change is driven by slower or faster continuous improvement in sector productivity growth rate. Productivity growth itself is fueled by advances in technology, inflow of useful innovations, accumulated practical knowledge and experience, levels of education, viability of institutions, quality of decision making and organized human effort. Individual sector transformations are the outcomes of human socio-economic evolution.\n\nHuman economic activity has so far undergone at least four fundamental transformations:\n\n\nThis evolution naturally proceeds from securing necessary food, through producing useful things, to providing helpful services, both private and public (See H/G→A→I→S→GWU sequence in Fig. 1). Accelerating productivity growth rates speed up the transformations, from millennia, through centuries, to decades of the recent era. It is this acceleration which makes transformation relevant economic category of today, more fundamental in its impact than any recession, crisis or depression. The evolution of four forms of capital (Indicated in Fig. 1) accompanies all economic transformations.\n\nTransformation is quite different from accompanying cyclical recessions and crises, despite the similarity of manifested phenomena (unemployment, technology shifts, socio-political discontent, bankruptcies, etc.). However, the tools and interventions used to combat crisis are clearly ineffective for coping with non-cyclical transformations. The problem is whether we face a mere crisis or a fundamental transformation (globalization→relocalization).\n\nFig. 1 refers to the four transformations through the parallel (and overlapping) evolution of four forms of capital: Natural→Built→Human→Social. These evolved forms of capital present a minimal complex of sustainability and self-sustainability of pre-human and human systems.\n\nNatural capital (N). The nature-produced, renewed and reproduced “resources” of land, water, air, raw materials, biomass and organisms. Natural capital is subject to both renewable and non-renewable depletion, degradation, cultivation, recycling and reuse.\n\nBuilt capital (B). The man-made physical assets of infrastructures, technologies, buildings and means of transportation. This is the manufactured “hardware” of nations. This national hardware must be continually maintained, renewed and modernized to assure its continued productivity, efficiency and effectiveness.\n\nHuman capital (H). The continued investment in people’s skills, knowledge, education, health & nutrition, abilities, motivation and effort. This is the “software” and “brainware” of a nation; most important form of capital for developing nations.\n\nSocial capital (S). The enabling infrastructure of institutions, civic communities, cultural and national cohesion, collective and family values, trust, traditions, respect and the sense of belonging. This is the voluntary, spontaneous “social order” which cannot be engineered, but its self-production (autopoiesis) can be nurtured, supported and cultivated.\n\nThe triggers that induce the catharsis of a crisis often coincide with and are undistinguishable from the triggers launching qualitative transformations of the economy, business and society at large. While crises are cyclical recessions or slowdowns within the same paradigm, transformation represents a paradigmatic change in the way of doing business: moving towards new standards and quality, in a unique and non-recursive way. Most developed and mature economies of the world (USA, Japan, Western Europe) are undergoing long-term transformation towards a “new normal” of doing business, state governance and ways of life. Cyclical crisis is a parallel, accompanying phenomenon, subject to different causes, special rules and separate dynamics.\n\nMilan Zeleny cautions that confounding crisis and transformation as one phenomenon brings forth the confusion, inconsistency and guessing. While many changes in the market system are cyclical, there are also evolutionary changes which are unidirectional and qualitatively transformational. The transformations of the US economy from agricultural to industrial, or from industrial to services, were not crises, although there were cyclical crises along the way. Transformational “losses” cannot be recovered or regained by definition. Not understanding that is at the core of wasteful spending of rigidly hopeless governmental interventions. Barry Bosworth of the Brookings Institution confirms: “The assumption has always been that the U.S. economy will gain back what was lost in a recession. Academics are coming to the realization that this time is different and that those losses appear permanent and cannot be regained.” In transformations there are no “losses”, only changes and transitions to a new economic order.\n\nWhen comparing major US recessions since 1980, as in Fig. 2, it is clear that they have been getting deeper and longer in terms of the recovery of initial employment level. Only the first is classical V shape, there are several W, U and finally L shapes. There clearly is an underlying causal phenomenon which is getting stronger and more persistent over time. Such underlying causation is of interest, as it may signal the prelude and gathering of forces of another emerging transformation.\n\nLooking back, even the Great Depression of the 1930s was not just a crisis, but a long-term transformation from the pre-war industrial economy to the post-war service economy in the U.S. However, in the early 1980s, the service sector had started slowing down its employment absorption and growth potential, ultimately leading to the jobless economy of 2011. No such comparisons with the 1930s are useful: one can compare recessions but not transformations. Industrial economy of 1930s and the post-service economy of 2000s are two different “animals” in two different contexts. It is still not clear what kind of transformation is emerging and eventually replaces the service and public sector economy.\n\nThe unrecognized confluence of crisis and transformation, and the inability to separate them, lies at the core of old tools (keynesianism, monetarism) not working properly. The tools for adapting successfully to paradigmatic transformation have not been developed. An example of a paradigmatic transformation would be the shift from geocentric to heliocentric view of our world. Within both views there can be any number of crises, cyclical failures of old and searches for new theories and practices. But there was only one transformation, from geocentric to heliocentric, and there was nothing cyclical about it. It was resisted with all the might of the mighty: remember Galilei and Bruno. While crises are cyclical corrections and adjustments, transformations are evolutionary shifts or even revolutions (industrial, computer) towards new and different levels of existence.\n\nThe most important indicator is the arena of employment, especially in the US, providing clues to transformational qualities of the current global crisis phenomena. Persistent rates of unemployment, combined with falling workforce participation rate indicate that also this crisis is intertwined with underlying transformation and so it displays atypical dynamics and unusual persistence, presenting new challenges to conventional economic thought, business practices and government interventional “toolbox”. Sector evolution and dynamics is the key to explaining these phenomena.\n\nEconomic sectors evolve (in terms of employment levels), albeit through fluctuations, in one general direction (along so called S-curve): they emerge, expand, plateau, contract and exit—just like any self-organizing system or living organism. We are naturally interested in the percentage of total workforce employed in a given sector. The dynamics of this percentage provides clues to where and when are the new jobs generated and old ones abandoned.\n\nSector’s percentage share of employment evolves in dependency on sector’s productivity growth rate. Agriculture has emerged and virtually disappeared as a source of net employment. Today, only ½ percent or so of total workforce is employed in US agriculture – the most productive sector of the economy. Manufacturing had emerged, peaked and contracted. Services have emerged and started contracting – all due to incessant, unavoidable and desirable productivity growth rates.\n\nThe U.S. absolute manufacturing output has more than tripled over the past 60 years. Because of the productivity growth rates, these goods were produced by ever decreasing number of people. While in 1980-2012 total economic output per hour worked increased 85 percent, in manufacturing output per hour skyrocketed by 189 percent. The number of employees in manufacturing was about a third of total workforce in 1953, about a fifth in 1980, and about a tenth (12 million) in 2012. This decline is now accelerating because of the high-tech automation and robotization. This is why President Obama´s policy of “industrial renaissance” and “high-tech manufacturing jobs” is economically flawed and politically without promise.\n\nA public sector of employment has been emerging: government, welfare and unemployment, based on tax-financed consumption rather than added value production, sheltered from market forces, producing public services. (Observe that the unemployed are temporary “employees” of the government, as long as they receive payments.) Creating employment in GWU sector is achievable at the expense of productive sectors, i.e. only at the risk of major debt accumulation, in a non-lasting way and with low added value. Sustaining employment growth in such a sector is severely limited by the growing debt financing.\n\nThe Four Basic Sectors refers to the current stage of sector evolution, in the sequence of four undergone transformations, namely agriculture, industry, services and GWU (government, welfare and unemployment)\n\nThe US economy has become one of the most mature (with Japan and Western Europe) in terms of its sector evolution. It has entered the stage – perhaps as the first economy ever – of declining employment share in both the service and government sectors.\n\nProductivity growth rates are now accelerating in the US services and its employment creation and absorption potential are declining rapidly. Accelerating productivity growth rates are dictated by global competition and human striving for better standards of living – they cannot be stopped at will. In the US there are only three subsectors where net jobs are still being created: education, health care, and government. The first two are subject to market forces and will undergo accelerating productivity growth rates and declining employment levels in the near future. The third one, GWU, is sheltered from competition, cannot expand its share substantially because it depends on taxation from other sectors; its employment growth is unsustainable.\n\nSlowly, the US economy has shifted towards sectors with lower added value, leading to lower real incomes and increasing indebtness. This is a systemic condition which no amount of regulation and Keynesian/monetarist stimuli can effectively address. Even desirable piercing of speculative, employment and debt bubbles has ceased to be politically correct. Even 100% taxation of all incomes would not alleviate US debt.\n\nSo, the US is at the transforming cusp and hundreds of years of sector evolution comes to a halt. There are only four essential activities humans can do economically: 1. Produce food, 2. Manufacture goods, 3. Provide services (private and public), and 4. Do nothing. This is why the idea of “basic income”, independent of employment, is being considered e.g. in Switzerland.\n\nUS economy has exploited (from employment share viewpoint) all three productive sectors. There is no new sector lurking in the offing: qualitative transformation is taking place. Less developed economies still have time left, some still have to industrialize and some still have the services to expand. But the US economy is now the harbinger of the things to come, the role model for others to follow or reject, but hardly ignore. For the first time in history, this one economy has reached the end of the old model (or paradigm) and is groping to find the new ways of organizing its business, economy and society.\n\nIn search of the better name, the Bloomberg Businessweek Editor argued as follows:\n\nMeanwhile, New Transformation has already well advanced.\n\nIn Fig. 3a, observe that the US economy has matured in terms of its sector evolution. It has entered the stage – as the first economy ever – of declining employment in the service and GWU sectors.\n\nAs Fig. 3a documents, the US economy has exhausted (from employment viewpoint) all three productive sectors and has reached for the 17% in GWU. In Fig. 3b we separate the last workforce bar from Fig. 3a, in order to see the impact of productivity growth today.\n\nAll four sectors are subject to accelerated productivity growth rates in the near future. The only expanding space of the workforce is the grey region “?” in Fig. 3b, essentially reflecting the decline in workforce participation rate. This grey area is also the space of the new transformation: that’s where those who left unemployment registers are starting new ventures and enterprises, and participating in regional economies.\n\nThis new “transformation” is different from all preceding sector transformations: it does not usher in a new sector but completes the secular cycle of localization→globalization→re-localization. A new economic paradigm is emerging, with a new structure, behavior, institutions and values. A more precise label would be Economic Metamorphosis. Metamorphosis is the outcome of a series of transformations, not dissimilar to a caterpillar-to-butterfly change of form, through the construction→destruction→reconstruction autopoietic self-production cycle.\n\nEven when the recession ends, the metamorphosis of economic form shall continue, accelerate and expand. Less and less we shall be able to tell the difference. Pressures for increased productivity growth rates, declining employment and workforce participation, as well as budget cuts shall grow unabated. Due to massive automation, sector GDP can grow even under the conditions of declining employment. More than that: increasing the minimum wage, historically rather neutral with respect to employment, will now be readily replacing low-level jobs with ever cheaper and more abundant automation - along with millions of jobs being lost due to the still uninformed and aimless political process. Obscuring the difference between cyclical crisis and the ongoing transformation (metamorphosis) is not without consequences: when true diagnosis is not attempted, and people do not know what is happening with their economy and why, all forms of contagious social unrest follow worldwide.\n\nIn economics, Okun's law (named after Arthur Melvin Okun), is an empirically observed relationship relating unemployment to losses in a country's production. This correlation \"law\" states that a 2% decline in output (GDP) will be accompanied by a 1% rise in unemployment. It has been dubbed as “Macroeconomic Mystery”. After holding for the past 40 years, it faltered during current “recovery”. Unemployment shot up faster than predicted, but then it fell more quickly than indicated by slow U.S. growth in 2009-2013. Output grew 2% but unemployment is 7.6% instead of 8.8% expected by this “law”.\n\nThe notion of transformation explains this artificial mystery. First, unemployment shot up faster because there are no major sectors absorbing and replacing the loss of jobs. Second, unemployment also falls faster because, due to the long duration of the crisis, the workforce participation rate keeps shrinking (In 2007, 66% were working or seeking job, in 2013 only 63.2%), as can be seen in Fig. 4. In other words, people leaving the workforce are not counted among the unemployed. For example, in summer 2013, on average only 148,000 new jobs per month were created, yet unemployment rate dropped steeply to 7.3%, at the cost of 312,000 people dropping out of the work force. The number of unemployed (i.e. actively seeking jobs) is different from the number of people without work – another sign of fundamental transformation and not just a “crisis”.\n\nThe correlation between growth and employment is very tenuous during ongoing transformation. Based on productivity growth rates, GDP could accelerate and yet jobs drop precipitously, due to automation, robotization, digitization and self-service of the transformation era. Also, correlations in economics are always dangerous because they do not prove or establish causal relationships.\n\nThe new transformational paradigm could be defined by the ongoing self-organization of the market economy itself: its rates of self-service, disintermediation and mass customization are increasing and becoming most effective on local and regional levels. Because there is no new productive sector to emerge, the economy seeks to reinstate its new balance through these new modes of doing business. Producers and providers are outsourcing their production and services to customers and to technology. Outsourcing to customers is a natural and necessary self-organizing process, including disintermediation, customer integration and mass customization, all driven by the global productivity at the cusp of transformation.\n\nDue to its productivity growth rates, each sector must emerge, grow, persist, stagnate, decline and dissipate in terms of its employment generating capacity. The high-productivity growth sectors are emerging and dissipating first, the low-productivity growth sectors (like services) are completing their life cycles only now. Different productivity growth rates in different sectors are accompanied by virtually uniform growth rates in wages and salaries across all sectors, as required by free market forces.\n\nAs a consequence, the goods of high productivity growth sectors (food, manufactured goods) are getting cheaper and the products of low productivity growth sectors (health care, education, insurance) are getting more expensive. In many developing nations this may still be the other way around (due to the prevailing stage of sector evolution): food and manufactured goods more expensive, while services still relatively cheap, as captured in the Figure 5:\nRational economics agents tend towards substituting relatively cheaper and capital intensive manufactured goods for relatively more expensive and labor-intensive services. Consumers will use goods instead of services wherever economical and possible. By observing the emergence of automated teller machines instead of bank tellers, self-service gas stations instead of full-service stations, self-driving instead of chauffeurs, do-it-yourself pregnancy kits rather than hospital testing services, self-handled optical scanners rather than cashiers, and cloud computing instead of central mainframes, mature economies are entering the era of self-service, disintermediation and mass customization.\n\nModern production is primarily based on the processing of information, not on the hauling of goods, humans and machinery over large distances. One can more effectively “haul the information,” to produce goods and provide services locally. Information and knowledge travel effortlessly through electronic superhighways, through telecommunications and social networks over the internet.\n\nBecause there is no new productive sector to emerge, the market system seeks to reinstate its new balance through new modes of doing business. Deglobalization is taking place, supply chains are turning into demand chains, large economies are focusing on their internal markets, outsourcing is followed by “backsourcing”, returning activities back to the countries and locations of their origin. The original slogan of “Think globally, act locally,” is being re-interpreted as exploiting global information and knowledge in local action, under local conditions and contexts.\n\nWhile globalization refers to a restructuring of the initially distributed and localized world economy into spatially reorganized processes of production and consumption across national economies and political states on a global scale, in deglobalization, people move towards relocalization: the global experience and knowledge becoming embodied in local communities. So, the corso-ricorso of socio-economic transformation is properly captured by a triad Localization → Globalization → Relocalization.\n\nThe trend of deglobalization is turning much more significant during these years. The growth of worldwide GDP is now exceeding the overall growth of trade for the first time; foreign investment (Cross Border Capital Flows) is only 60% of their pre-crisis levels and has plunged to some 40 percent. World capital flows include loans and deposits, foreign investments, bonds and equities – all down in their cross-border segment. This means that the rate of globalization has reversed its momentum. Globalizers are still worried about 2014 being the year of irreversible decline. Improvement in the internal growth of U.S.A., EU, and Japan does not carry into external trade – these economies are starting to function as zero-sum.\n\nThe income inequality and long-term unemployment lead to re-localized experiments with \"Guaranteed Minimum Income\" (to be traced to Thomas Paine) for all citizens. In Switzerland this guarantee would be $33,000 per year, regardless of working or not. Under the name Generation Basic Income it is now subject to Swiss referendum. Unemployment then frees people to pursue their own creative talents.\n\nWith this transformation, an entirely new vocabulary is emerging in economics: in addition to deglobalization and relocalization, we also encounter glocalization (adjustment of products to local culture) and local community restoration (regional self-government and direct democracy). With relocalization, an entire new cycle of societal corso-ricorso is brought forth. Local services, local production and local agriculture, based on distributed energy generation, additive manufacturing and vertical farming, are enhancing individual, community and regional autonomy through self-service, disintermediation and mass customization. Both requisite technologies and appropriate business models necessary for relocalization are already in place, forming a vital part of our daily business and life experience. New transformation is well on its way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10910649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10910649", "title": "United States military aid", "text": "United States military aid\n\nThe United States government first recognized the usefulness of foreign aid as a tool of diplomacy in World War II. It was believed that it would promote liberal capitalist models of development in other countries and that it would enhance national security.\n\nThe United States is the largest contributor of military aid to foreign countries in the world, providing some form of assistance to over 150 countries each year.\n\nThere are three main programs where military funding is allocated:\n\n\nSome examples of this would include the United States' efforts in Colombia and South Korea. Military aid has been successful in stopping insurgency, providing stability, and ending conflicts within the region.\n\nIn many other cases, military aid has laid the groundwork for other forms of aid. This aid includes building schools to promote education, providing clean drinking water, and further stabilizing food production. Without military aid, this development would have been impossible. \n\nSome may say that military aid is increasing insurgency in the area, but examples of French and United Nations' efforts show that it has been stopping terrorist forces; especially in Africa.\n\nCurrently, Congress wants to cut defense spending by lowering the amount of aid given to foreign militaries. Money saved from proposed cutbacks could benefit the U.S. military, which is closing military bases, freezing pay raises for service members, and cut the defense budget by $78 billion in 2011.\n\nParticular targets of criticism include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6046830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6046830", "title": "University Park at MIT", "text": "University Park at MIT\n\nUniversity Park at MIT is a mixed-use urban renewal project in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, occupying land near Central Square between the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) campus and the primarily residential neighborhood of Cambridgeport. It is a joint project of the City of Cambridge, MIT, and Forest City Enterprises.\n\nThe area presently known as University Park was originally an area of mostly marshy land along the Charles River. During the American Revolutionary War, one area of higher land was the site of a gun battery (now called Fort Washington) erected to guard against British attack during the Siege of Boston.\n\nIn the 1850s, the Grand Junction Railroad built tracks along what was then the swampy edge of the river. The nearby marshes were landfilled, and the area became home to a number of manufacturing plants. These included the Simplex Wire & Cable Company, the Kennedy Biscuit Company (which is the originator of the Fig Newton and is on the National Register of Historic Places), the Necco candy factory, a Sears shoe factory, and a Ford assembly plant.\n\nIn the 1960s, this part of Cambridge had been threatened by a proposed new highway, Interstate 695, also known as the \"Inner Belt\" project. The highway would have been routed along the western boundary of the area that is now University Park, and would have required the demolition of many homes in the adjacent area of Cambridgeport. Plans for building the highway were eventually dropped because of community opposition.\n\nSimplex, owner of the largest parcel of land, left Cambridge in 1969 (the company later became a unit of Tyco International). The Simplex property was then acquired by MIT. Most of the buildings were razed in the 1970s, leaving a large area of overgrown vacant lots that languished for many years while MIT tried to find a use for the property. Serious planning began in 1983 with MIT's selection of Forest City Enterprises to develop the land, and approval of a city master plan for the area. Construction started in 1985.\n\nFor some years afterwards, the site was the subject of protests by community activists who objected to MIT's plans for gentrification of the neighborhood, and wanted the development to include more affordable housing as well as to preserve the remaining businesses and historic buildings in the area. Final zoning approval for the project was given by the city in January, 1988.\n\nUniversity Park is a mixed-use development, comprising a combination of office and laboratory buildings that are home to several biotechnology companies, residential developments, retail areas, and parks and open space. While MIT continues to own the land, Forest City holds long-term leases. The last new building on the MIT-owned land was completed in 2005.\n\nThe project includes 531 rental apartments, more than was originally planned, because demand for housing in Cambridge outstripped that for office space by the time of the project's completion. Much of the housing is concentrated on the west side of the redevelopment area, bordering the established residential areas in Cambridgeport. The Kennedy Biscuit building was preserved and converted to loft housing. The former Sears shoe factory building was converted to office space.\n\nSome of the other older buildings in the area adjacent to the MIT-owned property have also been renovated. The former Necco building now houses a research unit of the pharmaceutical company Novartis. At the opposite end of the city-designated \"revitalization area\", the former Ford plant near the Boston University Bridge, originally built in 1913, has also been converted to office space.\n\nAs of 2012, plans for further major developments have been announced along Massachusetts Avenue.\n\nThe new construction of University Park contains both landscape sculpture sequences and individual public artworks. University Park Common includes over 100 sculptural and graphic pieces as part of \"Traces\", an artwork that marks moments in the 250 year history of the site. Commissioned by Forest City Boston, \"Traces\" tells stories of 18th and 19th century commerce and of technical innovations made in the local area. Bronze and stainless steel sculptures present moments in the activity of Simplex Wire and Cable, and a map sequence sculpture documents the changing landform of the site. A fog fountain evokes the early salt marsh history of the site, with cast bronze oyster shells recalling oyster banks discovered on site during excavation for building foundations. A memorial bronze sculpture of Necco Wafers in the signature roll wrapping, with individual round wafers, and printed Sweethearts (candy) conversation hearts spilling out of a paper bag, is displayed on a boulder in a corner of the park near the former New England Confectionery Company factory. \n\n"}
{"id": "23252010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23252010", "title": "Vicente de Azcuénaga", "text": "Vicente de Azcuénaga\n\nVicente de Azcuénaga Iturbe (January 1706–1787) was a Spanish-born Argentine businessman and politician.\n\nFrom Durango, Vizcaya, Spain, he arrived in Buenos Aires in his early forties and was devoted to commercial activities. He proved to be a successful trader which enabled him to amass a small fortune in a short time. He maintained a strong friendship with Francisco Ugarte, another great merchant of the time.\n\nIn Argentina Azcuénaga was also treated as a Spanish noble. He was elected Mayor of the Town of Buenos Aires in 1759. In 1760, he was appointed ruler of the Cabildo. In 1774 he was appointed Trustee of Commerce of San Francisco.\n\nHe married María Rosa de Basavilbaso y Urtubia (daughter of Domingo de Basavilbaso) on August 30, 1752. Vincent de Azcuénaga had seven children, three of whom spent time in the Argentine military, while another was an attorney.\n\n"}
{"id": "3790017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3790017", "title": "WRCA", "text": "WRCA\n\nWRCA (1330 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station licensed to Watertown, Massachusetts and serving the Greater Boston media market. The license is held by the Beasley Media Group, LLC, part of the Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. The station carries financial news from Bloomberg Radio with some local news, weather and traffic reports. WRCA's programming is also heard on FM translator W291CZ (106.1 MHz) and on the HD2 channel of sister station WBOS.\n\nThe station began operating as WCRB on January 30, 1948, owned by Theodore Jones's Charles River Broadcasting (hence the WCRB call letters). WCRB was originally a community radio station for Waltham, Massachusetts, before switching to a classical music format a few years later. An FM simulcast was added in 1954, WCRB-FM. As FM broadcasting became more popular for music listening, the AM station ceased simulcasting WCRB-FM's classical format in 1975 and became WHET, programming a big band/adult standards format from 1975 until 1978, and then a short run as a beautiful music outlet. Sales of the station to various owners led to formats such as country music WDLW for most of the 1980s, and then \"Showbiz Radio\" WRCA (standing for \"Radio, Comedy, and Arts\") in 1990 before the station began leasing time to ethnic broadcasters in 1991 with the WRCA call sign retained. The current owners, the Beasley Broadcast Group, took over in 2000 from the ADD Radio Group.\n\nThe station's long time transmitter site in Waltham was discontinued in 2007 when WRCA became one of three AM stations to share a rebuilt transmitter facility at the original site of WBOS AM 1600 on Sawmill Brook Parkway in Newton. This site is now used by stations on 1200, 1330 and 1600 kHz.\n\nWRCA's city of license changed from Waltham to Watertown in 2007, and the power increased to 25,000 watts daytime, 17,000 watts nighttime. In addition to ethnic programming, WRCA had broadcast Northeastern Huskies men's ice hockey games.\n\nFollowing Beasley's acquisition of Greater Media, WRCA went dark on November 15, 2016, as it moved to new studios; it returned in May 2017 with a simulcast of \"Boston's Irish Channel\", the HD2 channel of sister station WBQT, as it was believed that WRCA was in the process of signal testing. The station was also paired with an FM translator, W291CZ (licensed to Boston) at 106.1 MHz.\n\nOn July 3, 2017, Bloomberg L.P. and Beasley announced that WRCA/W291CZ would begin carrying Bloomberg Radio programming (which moved over from WXKS) beginning the following day. Concurrently, the HD2 channel of WBOS began to simulcast WRCA's programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "32723546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32723546", "title": "Whitaker iron family", "text": "Whitaker iron family\n\nMembers of the Whitaker family and related families were important in the iron and steel business in America during much of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42777238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42777238", "title": "Yoo Byung-eun", "text": "Yoo Byung-eun\n\nYoo Byung-eun () was a South Korean businessman, and inventor, who as a photographer was known under the art name Ahae. Due to his reclusiveness, he was known as \"the millionaire with no face\".\n\nYoo was the chairman of Chonghaejin Marine, which operated the MV Sewol ferry en route from Incheon towards Jeju when it sank. The sinking of the vessel would later become known as the Sewol Ferry Disaster. After the Incheon District Court issued an arrest warrant on 22 May, Yoo had gone into hiding and was Korea's most-wanted fugitive. In June, a male body was found in a field and on 21 July it was reported that it was Yoo's.\n\nYoo was born in Kyoto, Japan to Korean parents on 11 February 1941. Yoo's family returned to Korea following the liberation from Japanese colonial rule in 1945 and settled in Daegu, where Yoo graduated from Seonggwang High School.\n\nAccording to the U.S.-based non-profit organization Evangelical Media Group created by Yoo in 2001, \"he first began to live for the sake of the gospel in 1961,\" and that he \"worked as an inventor and businessman to support the spreading of the gospel all over the world\". Yoo was one of 11 students admitted to the Good News Mission Bible school established in Korea by American and English missionaries, but he was expelled. He founded what later became the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea, also known as the Salvation Sect, in 1962 with his father-in-law, Pastor Kwon Shin-chan (; 192396). The church was held to be a cult by a conservative Christian denomination, the General Assembly of Presbyterian Churches, in 1992.\n\nYoo, while still serving as a pastor, got his start in business when acquiring the bankrupt textile company Samwoo Trading Co. () in 1976. He took over as CEO in 1978, and turned it into a toy manufacturing and export company. Yoo went into shipping when he founded Semo Corp. () in 1979, a holding company that came to span shipping, shipbuilding, domestic ferry businesses, electronics, real estate, cosmetics, paint, stuffed toys, pewter, and various other ventures. Semo started operating ferries on Seoul's Han River in 1986, two years before the city held the Summer Olympics.\n\nYoo came to public attention in connection with the Odaeyang mass suicide in 1987. Police were investigating accusations against a 48-year-old woman, Park Soon-ja, saying that she had swindled billion (~ million) from about 220 people. Odeyang Trading Co. was a firm that established by Park who used to attend Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea and Jehovah's Witnesses in the past. Yoo has denied any link to the group. On 29 August 1987 thirty-two members of the sect who believed in doomsday, including Park Soon-ja and her three children, were found dead, bound and gagged. Police assumed the event was a murder–suicide pact, and the prosecution initially suspected that Yoo was linked to the case; but he was never charged, and the police closed the case as a mass suicide. After six people, including a former follower of Park named Kim Do-hyun, surrendered to authorities on 10 July 1991, the case was reopened and found money transactions between Odaeyang Trading Co. and a member of Evangelical Baptist Church. However, the money transactions revealed that they had nothing to do with Odaeyang Trading Co. case, and private loan of Odaeyang Trading Co. Those were normal payment remittances of goods between Park and the member of Evangelical Baptist Church before establishment of Odaeyang Trading Co. Yoo was arrested and, in 1992, convicted of \"habitual fraud under the mask of religion\" for his role in colluding with one of his employees to collect donations from church members in the amount of billion (~ million) and invest them in his businesses. He served a 4-year prison term.\nIn November 2014, report says Incheon District Prosecutor's Office confirm in May there was no connection between Yoo and Odaeyang incident.\n\nBy 1990, Semo Corp. had 1,800 employees, but the ferry businesses suffered maritime accidents. In 1990, 14 Semo workers were killed when their cruise ship on the Han River was hit by another ship. The company was cleared of any liability for the incident. Semo grew into the biggest ferry operator by 1994, operating 30 ships, and once had nearly 3,000 employees.\n\nSemo Group filed for bankruptcy with more than billion (~ million) in debts amidst the 1997 Asian financial crisis, in the wake of a series of highly publicized scandals, citing business diversification as the cause of a cash shortage that had fuelled a rise in debts in its bankruptcy protection petition, and was liquidated.\n\nAfter Semo's bankruptcy, Yoo's family continued to operate ferry businesses under the names of other companies, including one that eventually became Chonghaejin Marine, and grew to become the monopolistic operator of ferries linking Incheon and Jeju.\n\nChonghaejin Marine Company Ltd. was set up two years later on 24 February 1999, a day before a court approved the restructuring of the bankrupt Semo, and became a key entity to consolidate Semo's shipping business, taking over ships and assets held by Semo Marine, and had its debts written off.\n\nAccording to Chaebul.com, an online information provider on large businesses, Yoo and his family own 30 business operators, with 13 doing business abroad such as in the U.S., Hong Kong and France. Their combined assets amount to some billion (~ million). The collective assets of the 13 overseas operations surged to billion (~ million) at the end of 2013. In France in 2012, Yoo made headlines prior to his photo exhibition in the Tuileries Garden at The Louvre when he through his public relations company, Ahae Press, bought the abandoned village of Courbefy for (, million). Yoo had seen it on CNN, and wanted to set up an \"environmental, artistic and cultural\" project in the village. Yoo has a wide range of other business interests according to official documents and information on company websites. He owns a plantation in the United States called 123Farm, one of the largest organic lavender farms in California started in 2001 at the site of the Highland Springs Resort, a property consisting of a 56-room hotel, conference center, and restaurants. Yoo was chairman of the board of the company that bought the resort in May 1990 for million. I-One-I Holdings subsidiary Dapanda owns 9.9percent of the Highland Springs Conference and Training Centre at the resort, according to regulatory filings.\n\nAs an inventor, Yoo holds multiple patents, one being for a colonic irrigation system, for which he received an International Federation of Inventors' Associations' prize at the 2006 Seoul International Invention Fair. The invention is marketed in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Germany, South Korea, Philippines, and Malaysia by NaeClear, and is sold in South Korea by the company Dapanda. It \"arose from the concept of Hemato-Centric Health, which revolves around the blood as being the center of life.\" supposedly a concept created by Yoo and his non-profit research organization Hemato-Centric Life Institute (New York) chaired by his younger son Keith H. Yoo (Yoo Hyuk-kee, ; born 1972); sponsored by NaeClear Co., Ltd. and daughter Yoo Som-na's company Moreal Design Inc., Yoo delivered keynote speeches at the 2010-13Hemato-Centric Life Forum meetings in Seoul organized by Hemato-Centric Life Foundation.\n\nAhae (), which means \"child\" in old Korean language, was a nickname used in reference to Yoo in correspondence on an Evangelical Baptist Church website EBC World (). Through his PR companies Ahae Press, Inc. in New York, Ahae Press France in Paris, and Ahae Press Ltd. UK in London, Yoo has exhibited and marketed himself as the photographer who goes by the name Ahae. Yoo was unknown as a photographer before 2011.\n\nThe project titled \"Through My Window\" began in early spring 2009 and continued for 4 years, during which time Yoo allegedly took about 2.7 million photographs, all through one window, which equates to a rate of roughly one photo every 60 seconds. The collection mainly consists of natural scenes shot through the window of Yoo's own studio. The location is the rural commune belonging to the Evangelical Baptist Church called \"Geumsuwon\" () east of Anseong south of Seoul, where Yoo lives.\n\nYoo first exhibited \"Through My Window\" in the Vanderbilt Hall of Grand Central Terminal, New York City, in April 2011; co-produced by daughter Yoo Som-na's company Moreal Design, it was organized by Hemato-Centric Life Institute, and sponsored by Highland Springs Resort and Bear Family Green Club. His exhibition \"Through My Window: Vibrancy and Serenity\" was on display on the same location in October 2011. Yoo did not attend the exhibition that was unveiled by his second son, Yoo Hyuk-kee, known outside South Korea as Keith H. Yoo. Keith, as CEO of Ahae Press, curated his father's exhibitions.\n\nAs a travelling exhibition, \"Through My Window\" was then on display in Europe at the National Gallery in Prague, Clarence House Gardens, Lancaster House, and Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew in London, Vremena Goda Galleries in Moscow, Museo Nazionale Alinari della Fotografia in Florence, and in Magazzini del Sale, Venice.\n\nFrom June to August 2012, \"Through My Window\" (\"De ma fenêtre\") was displayed in a , four-story bespoke exhibition pavilion erected in the Tuileries Garden, that is administratively attached to The Louvre, in Paris. English film composer Ilan Eshkeri was commissioned to write a twelve-part tone poem. Pre-recorded in Abbey Road Studios by the London Metropolitan Orchestra the 46 minutes composition played alongside the exhibition, and was later released on Blu-ray Disc. For the gala dinner in the exhibition pavilion on 25 June 2012 Keith H. Yoo had commissioned British composer Michael Nyman to write a 26 minutes long piano quintet in four movements titled \"Through the Only Window\". The work was subsequently recorded by Nyman Quintet in the Abbey Road Studios, and released on Nyman's record label. Hervé Barbaret, deputy to former director of The Louvre Henri Loyrette, disclosed to \"L'Express\" in 2014 that \"The Louvre did not pay a penny to organize this event. The artist paid the production entirely and paid a little more than (~, ~ million) to exhibit himself in the Tuileries\". Ahae further donated million (~ million, ~ billion) to The Louvre.\n\nFrench magazine \"A nous Paris\" in its 25 June 2012 edition asked Keith H. Yoo the question: \"The exhibition is a significant cost. Do you have any sponsors?\" To which Keith answered: \"No. We are funding everything with the money from our different companies. We are not interested in outside pressure and want to enjoy total freedom.\"\n\nFor his second solo exhibition in France, \"Fenêtre sur l'extraordinaire\" (\"Window on the Extraordinary\"), Ahae rented the Orangerie Hall of the Palace of Versailles from 25 June to 9 September 2013. To mark the end of the exhibition, Michael Nyman was again commissioned, and wrote a 32 minutes long symphony in four movements for the occasion, Symphony No. 6\"AHAE\", representing the four seasons in nature as depicted by Ahae. French composer Nicolas Bacri was commissioned to write a 29 minutes long symphonic piece, his opus 130 titled \"Ahae's Day (Four Images for Orchestra)\". The London Symphony Orchestra was hired to premiere both pieces at L'Opéra of the Palace of Versailles in Paris on 8 September 2013. Both pieces have been recorded for a planned future release. Ahae was the sole patron of the Bosquet du Théâtre d'Eau (Water Theatre Grove) () currently being recreated with sculptures by Jean-Michel Othoniel in the area of the Gardens of Versailles, donating million (~ million, ~ billion). Catherine Pégard, head of the Public Establishment of the Palace, Museum and National Estate of Versailles who administer the Palace of Versailles, disclosed that the exhibition was on a sponsorship basis, saying \"The artist himself wanted to rent the Orangerie. But we never communicate the numbers.\" Spurred by investigative reporting initially published by Bernard Hasquenoph, French \"Le Monde\" and British \"The Times\" wrote that Ahae gave million (~ million, ~ billion) to Versailles.\n\n\"Financial Times\" in its review of the Versailles exhibition wrote: \n\n\"The Economist\" wrote: \n\nParisian newspapers \"Le Monde\" and \"Libération\", several French art magazines, as well as Korean expatriates in France in an open letter on 12 June to French Minister of Culture Aurélie Filippetti, Catherine Pégard, president of the Château de Versailles, Henri Loyrette, ex-president of the Louvre and co-president of the French-Korean Year, and Bruno Ory-Lavollé, director of the Forest Festival in Compiègne, have raised their concerns over French cultural institutions accepting self-financed exhibitions in return for donations. \"La Croix\" on 3 July wrote that French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius would write to Versailles to demand the termination of the Ahae sponsorship there.\n\nAhae, through his company Ahae Press, was a patron of the Forest Festival, a classical music festival in the forests of Compiègne, northern France. His photographs were to be projected during a gala concert at Théâtre Impérial de Compiègne on 4 July 2014. The sponsorship commitment was (~, ~ million). Following the open letter on 12 June from Korean expatriates in France to, among others, Minister of Culture Aurélie Filippetti and the director of the Forest Festival, and subsequent talks between the festival and the Ministry of Culture, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius on 30 June gave written notice to the festival suggesting the projection should be renounced \"out of sensitivity and respect for the Korean people mourning [following the sinking of \"Sewol\"], in particular the families of the young victims, and in the interest of the Festival and of France\"; the projection and the sponsorship was cancelled on 2 July.\n\nAn Ahae exhibition produced by Ahae Press titled \"Les échos du temps de près et de loin\" (\"Echos of Time: Far and Near\") for the opening season of the new Philharmonie de Paris was scheduled for 5 May to 28 September 2015, and a concert sponsored by Ahae Press on 15 June 2015 in Philharmonie de Paris featuring Nyman's Symphony No. 6 \"Ahae\" and Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 \"Pastorale\" was announced; both have been cancelled.\n\nFrench newspaper \"La Croix\" in a comment to the sinking of the MV \"Sewol\" wrote: \n\nFrance Info commented: \n\nThe ferry \"Sewol\" capsized and sank on 16 April 2014. It was carrying 476 people, mostly secondary school students from Danwon High School who were travelling from Incheon towards Jeju. The sinking resulted in 304 deaths, and is the worst ferry disaster in South Korea since 14 December 1970, when the sinking of the ferry \"Namyoung\" cost 326 people out of 338 their lives. \"Sewol\" was operated by the company Chonghaejin Marine.\n\nBefore his death, Yoo had widely been described as \"the owner of\" or \"the \"de facto\" owner of\" the sunken ferry \"Sewol\", and was former chairman of Chonghaejin Marine. Son Byong-ki, Yoo's lawyer, stated on 25 April that Yoo \"has no financial ties to Chonghaejin or its subsidiaries.\" A press release from Yoo's U.S. publicist, Ahae Press Inc., stated that \"[Mr. Yoo] does not own any shares, direct or indirect, of Chonghaejin.\" Financial filings confirmed that Yoo had no stake in the shipping company.\n\nYoo was the head of the family who partially own Chonghaejin Marine, and is believed to have exercised influence through a web of company cross-shareholdings. His two sons, Yoo Dae-kyun (; born ), and second son Yoo Hyuk-kee, are controlling the shipping firm through a majority stake in the investment vehicle I-One-I Holdings as well as 13 unlisted affiliates which through a tangled web of ownership structure own each other, a structure prosecutors describe as pyramid-like, and ultimately is controlled by individuals― Yoo's two sons and seven of his friends. Chung Sun-seop, editor of Chaebul.com, a website that analyses South Korea's chaebol business groups, said that \"This kind of shadow management through his children or close aides is not uncommon among chaebol companies.\"\n\nOn 23 April investigators of the Incheon District Prosecutors' Office raided the head office of Chonghaejin Marine, and some 20 offices of its affiliates, as well as the office of the Evangelical Baptist Church in Yongsan, central Seoul. Prosecutors suspected that funds from members of the religious group had been used in business operations of Chonghaejin Marine and Yoo Byung-eun. The prosecution found more than 100 bogus companies, many of them set up and operated by followers of a Yoo's religious group, had paid Yoo and his two sons at least billion (~ million) for their \"consulting services,\" and had purchased photos taken by Yoo. Yoo's religious group denied cross-border transactions with affiliates of the ferry operator. The Prosecution secured video footage of a lecture Yoo delivered to the sect's believers in April 2010, in which Yoo admitted to have registered properties under the names of other persons.\n\nA lawyer representing Yoo Dae-kyun and Yoo Hyuk-kee said on 22 April that \"If there is any legal responsibility, the owners are willing to offer their wealth and assets to help compensate the victims.\" On 24 April the two sons apologised in a written statement saying: \"We will humbly accept all responsibility for this accident and we will not hesitate to do anything to console the pain of victims and grieving families even a little bit.\"\n\nMichael Ham, managing director of Ahae Press and co-director of Evangelical Media Group, in a press release 25 April 2014 said: \"Mr. Yoo does not have any involvement in the management or day-to-day operations of Chonghaejin Marine Co. ... I know that he has been spending every single day of the past four to five years focusing on his photography work.\" Yoo's lawyer said that Yoo has been not been involved in corporate management since Semo went bankrupt in 1997.\n\nInvestigators have obtained evidence indicating Yoo as the \"de facto\" leader of the company. One piece of evidence is a detailed list of all the company's staff prepared on 15 April 2014, a day before the sinking of the MV \"Sewol\", which named Yoo as chairman of Chonghaejin Marine with employee number A99001, or employee No. 1 at the company, which was established in 1999. They also discovered a pay stub that records a payment of million (~) monthly over more than a year. They have also obtained testimony from others that Yoo was directly involved in managing the ferry operator.\n\n\"Sewol\" was remodeled between October 2012 and February 2013 to increase the number of passenger cabins and add a fifth floor, mainly used as an exhibition hall for photographs by Yoo (Ahae). The employee of Chonghaejin who was in charge of the refitting testified that he carried out the expansion under the direction of Yoo.\n\nInvestigators found that Yoo has glossed over critical problems with the stability of the refurbished vessel. According to the prosecution, the regular captain of the \"Sewol\" testified that he had warned Chonghaejin Marine of serious stability problems with the vessel, and Kim Han-shik, the chief of Chonghaejin Marine notified Yoo of the risks of overloading it with freight in January 2014. Kim reportedly pointed out the ferry's weakened ability to recover left-and-right balance when tilted due to the extension in the number of cabins, and advised Yoo to sell off the ferry. Yoo allegedly told them to keep running \"Sewol\" as usual and put up for sale both the sister ship \"Ohamana\" and \"Sewol\" in March.\n\nOn 20 May it was confirmed that the overloading and remodeling of the ship compromised its ability to maintain stability during the time of the accident.\n\nBased on the evidence, prosecutors concluded that Yoo was the one who directs operation and execution of business, and planned to hold Yoo vicariously liable for the acts of the operator's crew members. Accordingly, the prosecution was poised to cite \"negligent homicide\" in its coming application of criminal law against Yoo.\n\nYoo was charged with embezzlement, breach of trust and tax evasion. He is suspected of embezzling billion (~ million) from his companies, including billion (~ million) transferred overseas illegally, as part of a scheme to sell his nature photographs to his companies for tens of millions of won. He also owes an estimated billion (~ million) in taxes for the photos sold. Prosecutors also found evidence that Yoo's family set up several paper companies with no consultants, which then collected some billion (~ million) in consulting fees from companies related to Semo Group over the last few years. They are also looking into circumstantial evidence that Yoo's family has claimed commission fees of tens of billions of won from the related companies for the use of trademark rights for names like \"Sewol.\"\n\nOn 30 June, the Prosecution announced its intention to indict Yoo, irrespective of whether or not he was apprehended, citing \"homicide by negligence\" in the charges.\n\nYoo made no known public appearances since the \"Sewol\" sank. The Ministry of Justice banned within the first week of the investigation Yoo, his eldest son Yoo Dae-kyun, and more than 60 other employees in various companies owned by Yoo or his sons from leaving South Korea.\n\nSon Byeong-gi, a lawyer representing both Yoo, Chonghaejin Marine, and I-One-I Holdings, said on 22 April that \"If there is any legal responsibility, the owners are willing to offer their wealth and assets to help compensate the victims.\"\n\nThe Park Geun-hye administration pledged to exercise the right to indemnity against Yoo and Chonghaejin Marine as soon as the state compensates victims' families. The combined damages from the sinking of the \"Sewol\" are estimated to reach trillion (~ billion).\n\nThe accumulated value of the assets owned by Yoo and his family is estimated at over billion (~ million). It includes an estimated billion (~ million) held by Yoo himself, billion (~ million) by eldest daughter Yoo Som-na, billion (~ million) by eldest son Yoo Dae-kyun, and billion (~ million) by the second son Yoo Hyuk-kee.\n\nSon Byeong-gi representing Yoo told the \"Chosun Ilbo\" on 24 April that reports that Yoo's assets total billion were not true, but that Yoo had \"voiced his willingness to donate his entire billion (~ million) estate due to his deep sorrow for those who lost their lives aboard the \"Sewol\".\" A prosecution official investigating Yoo's holdings said there was a \"huge gap\" between what the former chairman claimed he was worth and what investigators had found out so far. Son claimed on 25 April that he had been misunderstood and by billion had meant \"tens of billions\" of won, and that Yoo was willing to donate his \"entire\" assets, whatever their size. Son later resigned as lawyer for the family on 15 May.\n\nA financier of the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea was summoned for questioning on 24 April to trace deals between the sect and companies run by Yoo and his two sons. Transcripts of land registers showed that four days later Yoo and his family signed over some 24 properties worth around billion (~ million) to the Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea on 28 and 29 April.\nOn 13 May, the Incheon District Prosecutors' Office summoned Yoo to appear for questioning by 16 May, but he failed to heed the call, and was presumed hiding in the church compound Geumsuwon south of Seoul. All of Yoo's children and a number of key suspects had ignored the summons. Yoo failed to appear at a court hearing on 20 May. On 22 May the Incheon District Court issued an arrest warrant and Korean authorities offered a million () reward for information leading to the arrest of Yoo. On 25 May the reward was raised tenfold to million ().\n\nProsecutors warned on 24 May that anyone who helps Yoo in hiding faces up to three years in prison. Four members of Yoo's religious group were arrested 25 May for assisting Yoo to escape detection by the police. On 26 May Yoo's religious group, in an apparent move to confuse investigators, said that Yoo might have returned early in the morning to Geumsuwon, the church commune in Anseong, Gyeonggi Province. Geumsuwon is known as the main residence of Yoo. A spokesperson for the sect later announced that Yoo had not returned, further saying, \"We hope Yoo doesn't get arrested. A 100,000 followers will protect Yoo. Even if the entire congregation of 100,000 believers is arrested, we won't hand him over.\" Lee Jae-ok, another member of Yoo's religious group, chairman of Yoo's Hemato-Centric Life Foundation, and one of Yoo's close aides, was arrested on 26 May on charges of planning Yoo's life as a fugitive and helping him evade detection for weeks.\n\nPresident Park Geun-hye during a Cabinet meeting on 27 May ordered a quick arrest of the fugitive Yoo saying he and his family \"is ridiculing the law and causing indignation among the people.\" Beginning 27 May, police doubled the number of officers deployed for the search for Yoo from 24,000 to almost 50,000.\n\nYoo's eldest daughter, Yoo Som-na (; born 1966), was summoned for questioning multiple times by the Prosecution, but evaded the Office's investigation. She heads the interior design and consulting firm Moreal Design with offices on New York's Park Avenue and in Seoul, which has done design work for many of Semo's affiliates, Debauve & Gallais, Hemato-Centric Life Institute, and NaeClear, and has sponsored Yoo's photographic exhibitions. On 9 May 2014, police raided the firm's office in southern Seoul on suspicion it had been involved in forming the family's slush funds and managing them in overseas accounts. On 11 May, the authorities issued an arrest warrant for Som-na after she failed to appear for questioning. Som-na has been staying in France since February 2013 on a temporary residence visa. She is accused of embezzling billion ( million) from her affiliates including Dapanda since 2003 while working as the head of Moreal Design in Seoul.\n\nOn 23 May an Interpol Red Notice was issued, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ordered Som-na to surrender her passport, while the Ministry of Justice dispatched local investigators to France to discuss potential extradition. French law enforcement authorities arrested Som-na under the international arrest warrant on 27 May in her Paris apartment, reportedly worth billion (US$2.44 million), near Champs-Élysées. The Ministry of Justice said that it will repatriate Som-na following a repatriation trial in France. She appeared before a judge on 28 May, who decided against releasing her on bail. Through her French lawyer, Patrick Maisonneuve, Som-na has said she is innocent of the charges brought against her. An appeal court on 11 June rejected Som-na's request for bail citing flight risk. A renewed request to be released pending the extradition decision 17 September was rejected by a Paris judge on 9 July. She is being held at the Fresnes Prison and is projected to bring her extradition case to the French Supreme Court, or even to judicial authorities of the European Union, which could delay her repatriation up to one year.\n\nOn June 2, 2017 the appeal on the extradition order for Yoo Sum-na was rejected by the highest administrative court in France, and on June 7, 2017 she was arrested by South-Korean officials at the Charles de Gaulle airport, aboard a plane from Korean Airlines bound for Korea.\n\nDuring the month of May, numerous persons were questioned and arrested, among them eight people who held top positions at subsidiary companies in Yoo's sphere of influence.\n\n\nThe criminal trial of the eight defendants started at Incheon District Court on 16 June, the eight being accused of embezzlement, breach-of-duty and other instances of corruption, with prosecutors alleging that the defendants inflicted between billion (~ million) and billion (~ million) worth of losses on their firms to help Yoo's family create slush funds. Three of the defendants denied their charges, the others admitted to irregular intragroup trading, saying that they acted on the orders of Yoo's eldest son, Dae-kyun, and Yoo's close aide Kim Phil-bae, who both reportedly have fled to the United States. Next court meeting is on 9 July.\n\nYoo's brother-in-law, Kwon Oh-kyun (; born ), the younger brother to Yoo's wife, Kwon Yun-ja, was arrested at his home in southern Seoul on charges of negligence on 6 June. Kwon, a key leader of the Salvation Sect, is CEO of the construction firm Trigon Korea, a core affiliate of Chonghaejin Marine, and suspected of embezzling company funds to illicitly transfer to Yoo and Yoo's children. On 8 June, a court warrant was issued to detain Kwon, inhibiting he fled the country or destroyed evidence. Kwon became the first relative of Yoo to be indicted on 24 June. He is accused of funneling funds of nearly billion (~ million) into his business after taking out loans with assets of the Evangelical Baptist Church as collateral in 2010, according to prosecutors.\n\nYoo's older brother, Yoo Byung-il (; born ), was the first member of Yoo's family who, on 11 May, appeared for questioning. Byung-il was the managing director of the religious facility called Geumsuwon. Prosecutors said they believed that Byung-il had received consultation fees of million (~) from Chonghaejin Marine each month, and that they had testimonies that he had illegally intervened in the company's management. Byung-il was arrested one month later on 13 June, near Geumsuwon. The prosecution team requested and was granted a pretrial detention warrant for Byung-il on 16 June. On 2 July Byung-il was indicted on embezzlement charges suspected of having received a combined million (~) from Chonghaejin Marine as consulting fees between June 2010 and April 2014.\n\nShin Myung-hee (; born ), a member of the Evangelical Baptist Church called \"Mother Shin\" by devotees of the sect, had been wanted by law enforcement authorities under suspicion of masterminding Yoo's escape, and on 13 June turned herself in to authorities in Suwon, Gyeonggi. Shin was detained and in July indicted on charges of playing a major role in helping Yoo evade capture.\n\nAn unnamed person acting for Yoo contacted the Embassy of France in Seoul in late May and asked about the possibility of Yoo seeking political asylum. The embassy declined the request due to Yoo's status as a criminal suspect. Local media outlets said Yoo's middleman also made asylum enquiries at the embassies of the Philippines, the Czech Republic, and Canada.\n\nYoo's eldest brother-in-law, Oh Gabriel (; born ), married to Yoo's younger sister, Yoo Gyeong-hee (; born ), was arrested with his wife on 19 June, allegedly for aiding Yoo's escape. The arrest came following testimony provided by two key adherents of the Evangelical Baptist Church that were arrested earlier in June, saying Oh drove Yoo out of the religious group's commune, Geumsuwon, on 23 April after police surrounded the compound. Oh, who served as the Korean ambassador to the Czech Republic from January 2010 through June 2013, reportedly played a significant role in garnering support for Yoo's photo exhibitions in France. Oh is currently under review by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's disciplinary committee for allegations that he abused his authority to help Yoo hold a photo exhibition in France and other European countries. The Prosecution suspect that Oh contacted the French Embassy on behalf of Yoo. When questioned, Oh testified that Yoo's family and followers funded and gave him information about the authorities' movements. Oh and his wife were released on 26 June reportedly with the expressed willingness to actively cooperate with the investigation and mediate the surrender of Yoo, and because under Korean criminal law family members to a fugitive cannot be punished for hiding or aiding the suspect.\n\nYoo's wife, Kwon Yun-ja (; born ), was put on the nation's most wanted list in June. She has been the CEO of a door-to-door sales company, Dalgubeol (), in the southern city of Daegu. Kwon was detained in an apartment in Bundang, Gyeonggi Province on 21 June and taken in for questioning on charges of embezzling funds from the Evangelical Baptist Church and her company, reportedly amounting to more than billion () that had been handed over to her husband and her son to expand their business. In order to keep her in custody, the prosecution asked on 23 June the Incheon District Court to issue an arrest warrant, which was granted on 24 June. On 14 July prosecutors filed embezzlement charges against Kwon.\n\nYoo's younger brother, Yoo Byung-ho (; born ), father-in-law of singer Park Jin-young, was arrested at his residence in Daegu on 22 June. The Court issued a custody warrant on 24 June. Byung-ho is suspected of embezzlement, totaling at least billion (~ million), from Chonghaejin Marine's sister firms, and to have borrowed billion (~ million) from one of the family affiliates, and allegedly made members of the religious group pay back billion (~ million) on his behalf while the affiliate suffered losses of billion (~ million).\n\nOn 25 June Lee Seok-hwan (; born ), considered Yoo's \"right-hand man,\" was arrested in a parking lot in Suwon, south of Seoul, after avoiding a manhunt for weeks. An influential member of the Evangelical Baptist Church, Lee is suspected of helping Yoo avoid arrest. A court-issued warrant on Lee was sought on 27 June.\n\nIn mid June 2014, Chonhaiji Co. Ltd., a ship block maker controlled by Yoo's sons, and the major shareholder of Chonghaejin Marine Company with 39.4%, lodged its application for receivership at the Changwon District Court. Chonhaiji had billion (~ million) in outstanding debt to main creditor Korea Development Bank.\n\nOn 27 June the Government of South Korea had calculated the costs in connection with the sinking of the ferry \"Sewol\" to billion (~ million), and lodged a claim to any properties held directly or by proxy by Yoo and Chonghaejin Marine at the Seoul Central District Court to cover compensation payments for the victims. The Court on 4 July ordered the sequestration of assets owned by Yoo Byung-eun, four officials of Chonghaejin Marine, and eight crew members aboard \"Sewol\".\n\nYoo while on the run purchased around of land near a property in South Jeolla Province where he sought refuge in May, according to prosecutors. He paid million (~) and registered it under the names of the married couple, members of his religious group, who run a rest stop and restaurant near Suncheon and are suspected of aiding Yoo's escape from the law. The Incheon District Court on 2 July ordered in its third decision to temporarily seize assets the confiscation of an additional billion (~ million) worth of assets owned by Yoo and his family, including the newly acquired property as well as 10 stores in Gangnam District, Seoul, valued at billion (~ million), an apartment owned by Yoo's son Hyuk-kee valued at billion (~ million), and cameras confiscated from a restaurant run by his other son Dae-kyun valued at million (~).\n\nYoo's first son, Yoo Dae-kyun, was involved in the day-to-day operations of Chonghaejin Marine. He was the biggest shareholder of four affiliates of the family businesses including the holding company of the operator of \"Sewol\", I-One-I Holdings. Prosecutors found evidence proving that Dae-kyun received monthly wages from affiliates that he did not own shares of. He is suspected of collecting billions of won in \"consulting fees\" from the firms and creating a slush fund. Dae-gyun also registered the name \"Ohamana\" for a sister ferry of the \"Sewol\". Dae-gyun is wanted for a string of corruption charges and irregularities that are believed to have contributed to the sinking of the \"Sewol\".\n\nDae-kyun bought an airplane ticket to France and was reportedly spotted at Incheon International Airport on 19 April, but didn't board the plane. He was supposed to appear for questioning at the Incheon District Prosecutors' Office, but failed to show up. Prosecutors obtained an arrest warrant for Dae-kyun on 13 May, but investigators were unable to find him. He was placed on the most-wanted list amid fears that he would flee the country. The Court approved on 20 May a proposal by the Prosecution and the National Tax Service to place real estate assets worth billion (~ million) under confiscation. Among the properties was land in the Seocho District and Gangnam District of southern Seoul and two business offices in Gangnam-gu. All properties had been registered in the name of Yoo Dae-kyun. On 22 May the Korean authorities labeled Yoo Byung-eun and Yoo Dae-kyun as fugitives, and initially offered a million (~) reward for Yoo and a million (~) reward for Dae-kyun for information leading to their arrest. On 25 May the rewards were raised to million (~) for the older Yoo and to million (~) for the son, the largest amount ever offered by an investigative authority as a reward in South Korea.\n\nYoo's second son, Yoo Hyuk-kee, reportedly was involved in the day-to-day managing of Chonghaejin Marine. Hyuk-kee, apart from his stake in I-One-I Holdings, owns some 10 percent stake in Ahae Corp., a paint manufacturing company, and a stake in Ahae Press Corp. As CEO of Ahae Press Inc. in New York, Ahae Press France in Paris, and Ahae Press Ltd. UK in London, he has built up his fathers image as a talented photographer, and has curated his exhibitions. Hyuk-kee had been summoned for questioning by 8 May, but ignored the summonses. On 23 May an Interpol Red Notice was issued. He is suspected of helping his father establish a slush fund through paper companies.\n\nHyuk-kee, who is known outside Korea as Keith H. Yoo, is based in the U.S. and, according to sources, either has permanent residence status or holds a U.S. citizenship. He left South Korea for the U.S. shortly after the sinking of the \"Sewol\" on 16 April, and attempted to make his way to France but didn't get on his booked flight. Hyuk-kee and his wife allegedly own at least three apartments on Manhattan and near the Arc de Triomphe in Paris estimated to be worth around million (~ billion) altogether. The prosecutors have asked the United States Department of Homeland Security's Investigations Directorate to track down real estate and deposits under the names of the siblings or affiliates of the family business.\n\nYoo was known, due to his reclusiveness, as \"the millionaire with no face.\" He married Kwon Yun-ja (; born ), the daughter of Kwon Shin-chan, in 1966. He had four children with her: daughter Yoo Som-na (; born 1966), also known as Ennette Yoo, daughter Yoo Sang-na (; born ), son Yoo Dae-kyun (; born ), and second son Yoo Hyuk-kee (; born 1972), also known as Keith H. Yoo.\n\nSouth Korean authorities initially offered a million (~) reward for information leading to the arrest of Yoo. On 25 May the reward was raised tenfold to million (~). South Korean police reported in July 2014 that a body found in June in a field about south of Seoul is believed to be Yoo's. The body was wearing a winter sweater and was \"seriously decomposed.\" Preliminary DNA analysis indicates a \"fair match\". The death was later confirmed.\n\n\n"}
