{"id": "56372989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56372989", "title": "2017 XO2", "text": "2017 XO2\n\n, also written 2017 XO2, is a sub-kilometer asteroid and near-Earth object of the Apollo group approximately in diameter. The asteroid was discovered by Pan-STARRS in December 2017, after it already had approached Earth at or 20 lunar distances (LD) on 6 November 2017. On 26 April 2057, it will pass Earth at a similar distance of 21 LD again.\n\n was discovered by Pan-STARRS at Haleakala Observatory, Hawaii, on 10 December 2017, when the asteroid was about from Earth and had a solar elongation of 125°.\n\nOn 20 January 2018 with a 40-day observation arc, it reached Torino scale 1 with an estimated 1 in 3000 chance of impacting Earth on 28 April 2057. The nominal JPL Horizons 28 April 2057 Earth distance was estimated at with a 3-sigma uncertainty of ±52 million km. NEODyS listed the nominal 28 April 2057 Earth distance at . A Monte Carlo simulation using Solex 12 with 1000 clones of the asteroid generated one impactor.\n\nOn 27 January 2018 Pan-STARRS precovery images from November and December 2011 were announced, and was removed from the Sentry Risk Table. These precovery images extended the observation arc from 40 days to 6.21 years. It is now known that on 26 April 2057 the asteroid will be just past closest approach roughly from Earth with a 3-sigma uncertainty of ±3000 km.\n\nThe asteroid was last observed on 20 January 2018 at apparent magnitude 24 by T14 Mauna Kea. As the asteroid is becoming very faint, further observations during this approach are difficult. The next good chance to recover the asteroid will be between March and late April 2022 when the asteroid will pass about from Earth.\n\n is an Apollo asteroid, the largest group of near-Earth objects and Earth-crossing asteroids with approximately 10 thousand known members. It orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.72–1.55 AU once every 15 months (440 days; semi-major axis of 1.13 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.36 and an inclination of 15° with respect to the ecliptic. The asteroid has a notably low minimum orbital intersection distance with Earth of , or 0.11 LD.\n\nOn the Sentry Risk Table, the object had an estimated mean-diameter of . Based on a generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion, measures between 100 and 200 meters in diameter, for an absolute magnitude of 22.4, and an assumed albedo between 0.05 and 0.20, which represent typical values for carbonaceous and stony asteroids, respectively. As of 2018, no rotational lightcurve of this object has been obtained from photometric observations. The body's rotation period, pole and shape remain unknown.\n\nThis minor planet has neither been numbered nor named.\n\n"}
{"id": "48508353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48508353", "title": "993–994 carbon-14 spike", "text": "993–994 carbon-14 spike\n\nThe 993–994 carbon-14 spike was a rapid increase in carbon-14 content from tree rings, and followed the 774–775 carbon-14 spike. This event is also confirmed by a sharp increase of beryllium-10 and hence considered as solar-origin. It may have come from a massive solar storm as a series of auroral observations are known to be observed in late 992. \n\n"}
{"id": "26357305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26357305", "title": "Alternative Energy Promotion Centre", "text": "Alternative Energy Promotion Centre\n\nThe Alternative Energy Promotion Centre (AEPC) (Nepali: वैकल्पिक ऊर्जा प्रवर्द्धन केन्द्र, Vaikalpik Urja Pravardhan Kendra) is an independently functioning government institution established by the Government of Nepal with the objectives to popularize and promote the use of renewable energy technologies, raise the living standards of the rural people, protect the environment, and develop commercially viable renewable energy industries in the country. It is governed by nine member board representing government, non-government, industry and financial sectors. AEPC was established in November 3, 1996 (Kartik 18, 2053 B.S.) under then Ministry of Science and Technology of the Government of Nepal. Currently, it is under the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation.\n"}
{"id": "5089819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5089819", "title": "Atmospheric models", "text": "Atmospheric models\n\nStatic atmospheric models describe how the ideal gas properties (namely: pressure, temperature, density, and molecular weight) of an atmosphere change, primarily as a function of altitude. The World Meteorological Organization defines a standard atmosphere as \"a hypothetical vertical distribution of atmospheric temperature, pressure and density which, by international agreement, is roughly representative of year-round, midlatitude conditions. Typical usages are as a basis for pressure altimeter calibrations, aircraft performance calculations, aircraft and rocket design, ballistic tables, and meteorological diagrams.\"\n\nFor example, the U.S. Standard Atmosphere derives the values for air temperature, pressure, and mass density, as a function of altitude above sea level.\n\nOther static atmospheric models may have other outputs, or depend on inputs besides altitude.\n\nThe gas which comprises an atmosphere is usually assumed to be an ideal gas, which is to say:\n\nformula_1\n\nWhere \"ρ\" is mass density, \"M\" is average molecular weight, \"P\" is pressure, \"T\" is temperature, and \"R\" is the ideal gas constant.\n\nThe gas is held in place by so-called \"hydrostatic\" forces. That is to say, for a particular layer of gas at some altitude: the downward (towards the planet) force of its weight, the downward force exerted by pressure in the layer above it, and the upward force exerted by pressure in the layer below, all sum to zero. Mathematically this is:\n\nFinally, these variables describing the system do not change with time; i.e. it is a static system.\n\nDepending on the model, some gas properties may be treated as constant with respect to altitude.\n\nIf the density of a gas is persistent, then it isn't really behaving like a gas. Instead it is behaving like an incompressible fluid, or liquid, and this situation looks more like an ocean. Assuming density is constant, then a graph of pressure vs altitude will have a retained slope, since the weight of the ocean over head is directly proportional to its depth.\n\nThis atmospheric model assumes both molecular weight and temperature are constant over a wide range of altitude. Such a model may be called isothermal (constant temperature). Inserting constant molecular weight and constant temperature into the equation for the ideal gas law produces the result that density and pressure, the two remaining variables, depend only on each other. For this reason, this model may also be called barotropic (density depends only on pressure).\n\nFor the isothermal-barotropic model, density and pressure turn out to be exponential functions of altitude. The increase in altitude necessary for \"P\" or \"ρ\" to drop to 1/\"e\" of its initial value is called the scale height:\n\nwhere \"R\" is the ideal gas constant, \"T\" is temperature, \"M\" is average molecular weight, and \"g\" is the gravitational acceleration at the planet's surface. Using the values \"T\"=273 K and \"M\"=29 g/mol as characteristic of the Earth's atmosphere, \"H\" = \"RT\"/\"Mg\" = (8.315*273)/(29*9.8) = 7.99, or about 8 km, which coincidentally is approximate height of Mt. Everest.\n\nFor an isothermal atmosphere, formula_5 or about 63% of the total mass of the atmosphere exists between the planet's surface and one scale height. (The total air mass below a certain altitude is calculated by integrating over the density function.)\n\nFor the ocean example there was a sharp transition in density at the top or \"surface\" of the ocean. However, for atmospheres made of gas there is no equivalent sharp transition or edge. Gas atmospheres simply get less and less dense until they're so thin that they're space.\n\nThe U.S. Standard Atmosphere model starts with many of the same assumptions as the isothermal-barotropic model, including ideal gas behavior, and constant molecular weight, but it differs by defining a more realistic temperature function, consisting of eight data points connected by straight lines; i.e. regions of constant temperature gradient. (See graph.) Of course the real atmosphere does not have a temperature distribution with this exact shape. The temperature function is an approximation. Values for pressure and density are then calculated based on this temperature function, and the constant temperature gradients help to make some of the maths easier.\n\nThe NASA Earth Global Reference Atmospheric Model (Earth-GRAM) was developed by the Marshall Space Flight Center to provide a design reference atmosphere that, unlike the standard atmospheres, allows for geographical variability, a wide range of altitudes (surface to orbital altitudes), and different months and times of day. It can also simulate spatial and temporal perturbations in atmospheric parameters due to turbulence and other atmospheric perturbation phenomena. It is available in computer code written in Fortran. The GRAM series also includes atmospheric models for the planets Venus, Mars and Neptune and the Saturnian moon, Titan.\n\nGravitational acceleration, \"g\"(z), decreases with altitude since moving up means moving away from the planet's center.\n\nThis problem of decreasing \"g\" can be dealt with by defining a transformation from real geometric altitude \"z\" to an abstraction called \"geopotential altitude\" \"h\", defined: \n\n\"h\" has the property \n\n"}
{"id": "23546706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23546706", "title": "Australian Energy Market Operator", "text": "Australian Energy Market Operator\n\nThe Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) performs an array of gas and electricity market, operational, development and planning functions. It manages the National Electricity Market (NEM) and the Victorian gas transmission network. AEMO also facilitates electricity and gas full retail contestability, overseeing these retail markets in eastern and southern Australia. It is additionally responsible for national transmission planning for electricity and the establishment of a Short Term Trading Market (STTM) for gas.\n\nIt commenced operations on 1 July 2009, superseding several state-based and cross-state organisations including the National Electricity Market Management Company Limited (NEMMCO), the Victorian Energy Networks Corporation (VENCorp) which was responsible for the efficient operation of gas and electricity industries in Victoria, the Electricity Supply Industry Planning Council (ESIPC) which was responsible for the effective operation of the electricity industry in South Australia, the South Australian operations of Retail Energy Market Company (REMCo)), Gas Market Company (GMC) and Gas Retail Market Operator (GRMO).\n\nIn March 2017, AEMO sought to reassure the public that the closure of the Hazelwood Power Station, which has a capacity of 1600 megawatt, would be offset by the availability of three mothballed gas-fired stations, which have a combined capacity of 830 megawatts, and large industrial businesses agreeing to time-shift their electricity use in the event of an emergency. The addition capacity would be provided by the Pelican Point Power Station in South Australia, Tamar Valley Power Station in Tasmania and Swanbank Power Station in Queensland.\n\nIn 2017, AGL Energy reaffirmed that it intends to close the Liddell Power Station in 2022. The closure of this and other coal-burning power stations in Australia has led to the former Prime Minister of Australia, Malcolm Turnbull, to seek advice from AEMO on extending the life of a number of them, to head off future power shortages. Turnbull said the government had been advised that if the Liddell plant were to close in 2022, there would be a 1000MW gap in base load, dispatchable power generation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58741368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58741368", "title": "Beachy Head West", "text": "Beachy Head West\n\nBeachy Head West Marine Conservation Zone are two spatially separate areas in the English Channel, off the East Sussex coast. They stretch from Brighton Marina in the city of Brighton and Hove to Beachy Head near Eastbourne, with a gap at the mouth of the River Ouse near Newhaven. It covers an area of around .\n\nThis area includes the Heritage Coast within the South Downs National Park, the eastern half of the UNESCO Brighton and Lewes Downs Biosphere Reserve and part of the Seven Sisters Voluntary Marine Conservation Area.\n\nThe two sites contains some of the best examples of underwater chalk habitat in the south-east of England. The chalk reefs and gullies support specialised communities of animals and seaweeds including the rare short-snouted seahorse.\n\n"}
{"id": "1589698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1589698", "title": "Beam tetrode", "text": "Beam tetrode\n\nA beam tetrode, sometimes called a \"beam power tube\", is a type of tetrode vacuum tube (or 'valve') with auxiliary beam-focusing plates designed to augment power-handling capability and help reduce unwanted emission effects. These tubes are usually used for power amplification, especially at audio-frequency.\n\nThe problem of secondary emission from the anode (US: plate) in the tetrode tube was solved by Philips/Mullard with the introduction of a suppressor grid which resulted in the pentode design. Since Philips held a patent on this design, other manufacturers were keen to produce pentode type tubes without infringing the patent. In the UK, two EMI engineers, Cabot Bull and Sidney Rodda, produced and patented an alternate design in 1932. Their design had the following features (compared to the normal pentode).\n\nThe design is today known as the beam tetrode but historically was also known as a kinkless tetrode, since it is a four-electrode device without the negative resistance kink in the anode current vs anode voltage characteristic curves of a true tetrode. Some authorities, notably outside the United Kingdom, argue that the beam plates constitute a fifth electrode.\n\nThe EMI design had the following advantages over the pentode:\n\n\nDisadvantages of the beam tetrode were:\n\n\nThe MOV (Marconi-Osram Valve) company, under the joint ownership of EMI and GEC, considered the design too difficult to manufacture due to the need for good alignment of the grid wires. As MOV had a design-share agreement with RCA of America, the design was passed to that company. RCA had the resources to produce a workable design resulting in the 6L6. Not long after, the beam tetrode appeared in a variety of offerings, including the 6V6 in December 1936, the MOV KT66 in 1937 and the KT88 in 1956, designed specifically for audio and highly prized by collectors today.\n\nSome tubes described as pentodes are actually beam tetrodes. The ubiquitous Mullard EL34 (6CA7), although manufactured by Mullard as a pentode, was also produced by other manufacturers as a beam tetrode instead.\n\nA beam tetrode family widely used in the US comprised the 25L6, 35L6, and 50L6, and their miniature versions the 50B5 and 50C5. This family is not to be confused with the 6L6 despite similar designations. They were used in millions of All American Five AM radio receivers. Most of these used a transformerless power supply circuit. In American radio receivers with transformer power supplies, built from about 1940-1950, the 6V6, 6V6G, 6V6GT and miniature 6AQ5 beam tetrodes were very commonly used.\n\nIn military equipment, the 807, and 1625 with rated anode dissipations of 25 watts and operating from a supply of up to 750 volts, were in widespread use as the final amplifier in radio-frequency transmitters of up to 50 watts output power and in push-pull applications for audio. These tubes were very similar to a 6L6 but had a somewhat higher anode dissipation rating and the anode was connected to the top cap instead of a pin at the base. Large numbers entered the market after World War II and were used widely by radio amateurs in the USA and Europe through the 1950s and 1960s. \n\nThe beam tetrode produces the lowest distortion of this class of tube by producing significantly less third-harmonic distortion, and lower intermodulation distortion when used in ultralinear mode. Even-harmonic distortion is automatically cancelled in a push-pull design. The beam tetrode can be operated as a triode (by connecting its screen grid to its anode), and in this mode functions more efficiently than a pentode operated in the same manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "4302779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4302779", "title": "Bill Birkett", "text": "Bill Birkett\n\nBill Birkett is a mountain writer, photographer, and climber who has undertaken many expeditions around the world.\n\nHis books include \"Classic Walks in Great Britain\", \"The Hillwalker's Manual\", \"Exploring The Lakes and Low Fells\", \"A Year in the Life...\" series and the best-selling \"Complete Lakeland Fells\". The hills listed in the latter book have become known as \"Birketts\" (see Hill lists in the British Isles).\n\nHe is a regular contributor to \"The Great Outdoors\", \"Climber\", \"Climb\", \"On the Edge\", \"High\" and \"Cumbria\" magazines.\n\nHe is a member of the Climbers' Club, the Fell and Rock Climbing Club, the Outdoor Writers' Guild, British Guild of Travel Writers and the Society of Authors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11202697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202697", "title": "Cobbler Creek Recreation Park", "text": "Cobbler Creek Recreation Park\n\nCobbler Creek Recreation Park is a protected area located in South Australia about north of the Adelaide city centre in the suburb of Salisbury East. Originally part of the lands of the Kaurna aboriginal people, it was farmed from European settlement of South Australia until the declaration of the park in 1989.\n\nThe park provides an open space barrier between Golden Grove and the suburbs of Salisbury, has dams to mitigate flooding and is a significant site for both public recreation and native flora and fauna conservation. It is bounded by main roads and bisected by a four-lane main connecting road.\n\nCobbler Creek Recreation Park is a protected area located about north of the Adelaide city centre within the suburb of Salisbury East. The park is bounded by Bridge and Smith roads, and Green Valley Drive. The Grove Way, a major divided road, runs through the park with a pedestrian underpass connecting the two park sections. The park is open to the public and includes three formed walking trails and two ruins. The remains of William Pedler's home \"Trevalsa\" and another's called \"Teakles House\" lie next to one of the trails. There are no public facilities except for benches, signage and picnic tables. \"Kelway House\", originally belonging to the Kelway Park farm that occupied much of the park, remains as office accommodation for park management staff.\n\nThe park lies on the border between the dry northern Adelaide Plains and the wetter Mount Lofty Ranges. Based on climate measurements for nearby Parafield Airport, the park has an average rainfall of , an average winter daily temperature range of 6.2—15.6 degrees Celsius and a summer range of 16.5—29.7. Due to the risk of flooding after heavy rain, the park’s waterways have been dammed, though they are dry for much of the year. The park’s topography ranges from steadily sloping in the west, to hilly in the east. Its lowest point, on the western edge along Bridge road, is above sea level, rising to at the Para Trigonometric Point in the park's southeastern corner. Flat land on the western side has red-brown soil with the remainder having Terra Rosas, Redzinas and fine-textured mallee soils.\n\nCobbler Creek itself begins in the hills to the west of Golden Grove and joins with Slate Creek prior to entering the park. It is used to collect stormwater from the Tea Tree Gully area as it passes through both farmland and suburbs. After leaving the park the creek passes through housing developments, into wetlands and eventually to the Barker Inlet.\n\nThe recreation park is classified as an IUCN Category III protected area.\n\nAfter European settlement the land was used for farming. William Pedler III (1804-1874), emigrated to the colony from Cornwall in 1838. He was one of the first to farm the area with his wife Elizabeth (Nicholls). William had been a shoe-maker in Cornwall and Adelaide and from his farm at Salisbury made shoes and boots for teamsters passing through carting ore to Burra. William Pedler first purchased land of at Cobbler Creek in 1850, later adding adjoining land to create a farm of 279 acres. He passed the property on, and his oldest son William IV farmed the land for many years with his wife Martha (Day) and their family. William III's profession gave both the creek that passes through the northern part of the park, and the park their names. Pedler's farm occupied the flatter, western area of land near Bridge Road. Part of the park was later a farm known as \"Kelway Park\"; a homestead of the same name remains in the park’s south-west. In the 19th century, Salisbury residents used this area for Sunday school picnics. Swings were temporarily built, water and food brought to the site and games and bands provided for entertainment.\n\nInvestigations have found no evidence of land use prior to European settlement, although the park forms part of the traditional lands of the Kaurna aboriginal people. It is likely that the Kaurna used the area during winter for food and shelter, moving to the coast to escape summer heat.\n\nIn a 1962 government report, the park’s area was identified for use as future open space. A golf course was proposed, as were other sporting facilities. The course was re-proposed in 1981 and again in the 1990 management plan. The park was purchased by the Government of South Australia in 1970, as part of a program preserving open space for recreation. The park's location was chosen to provide a development-free buffer between the existing suburbs of Salisbury and the proposed Golden Grove development. It was owned and managed by the State Planning Authority until 1982 when control passed to the National Parks and Wildlife Service. Cobbler Creek was declared a recreation park in 1989, at which point some of the land remained leased for agriculture. The \"Golden Grove Indenture Act\" (1984) committed the government to build certain access roads to the new suburb of Golden Grove. Based on the provisions of section 7A-1 in the act, in June 1987 cabinet approved the building of Grove Way. The road is a 4-lane divided connecting road, begun in September 1988 and completed in 1990.\n\nCobbler Creek Recreation Park is administered and maintained jointly by the City of Salisbury, and the Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources. A volunteer group, Friends of Cobbler Creek, was formed in 1990 and works with rangers to improve and maintain the park.\n\nWhile sections of the park have been cleared (owing to past land uses), other areas feature grassland, river red gum (\"Eucalyptus camaldulensis\"), and mallee box (\"Eucalyptus porosa\"). The park contains some of the last remaining mallee box grassy woodland in Adelaide. Amongst the woodlands, plants like the blue-flowering flax lily are common.\n\nMost of the lower, western parts of the park were cleared for pasture and cropping until the early 1970s. While there is remnant vegetation on higher ground, introduced pasture grasses and associated weeds dominate much of the understorey. Perennial native grasses, such as kangaroo grass (\"Themeda triandra\"), have been used as part of the park's revegetation. Many of the introduced grasses dry in summer and pose a greater fire hazard than the regrowth. To combat this hazard, and protect surrounding residential areas, annual burns are held particularly around the park's margins. These burns also serve to encourage native vegetation to dominate over introduced weeds.\n\nDue to the park's perceived modest conservation values, the 1990 management plan called only for specific control of proscribed weeds rather than an eradication plan for all introduced species. Cobbler Creek park has a wide range of native plants including quandong, ruby saltbush (\"Enchylaena tomentosa\", desert cassia (\"Cassia eremophila\"), weeping pittosporum and umbrella wattle (\"Acacia ligulata\").\n\nNative fauna species have been greatly reduced by past agricultural practices and the introduced rabbit is now common. Eastern bearded dragons, White's skink, eastern brown snake, and sleepy lizard reptile species are seen; a total of twenty species have been seen within the park. Black-shouldered kites and nankeen kestrels hunt over the grasslands. red-rumped parrots and crested pigeons are seen feeding on the ground and wattlebirds, musk lorikeets, noisy miners and honeyeaters in the flowering gums and along creeklines. The park is home to a small population of the worm-like and vulnerable Flinders Ranges worm-lizard (\"Aprasia pseudopulchella\").\n\nRecreational use of the park is encouraged. There are some picnic facilities provided and dogs are allowed to be walked while on leads. The park includes three named walking trails—Mai Tappa, Babbler and Porosa— that largely follow formed management tracks. The trails pass by the park's ruins and both these and natural sights are highlighted by interpretive signs.\n\nMountain bike riding was prohibited within the park and illegal trail bike riding was common. However, as of 2013 shared use trails have been built for walkers and mountain bike riders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55945206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55945206", "title": "Dali (goddess)", "text": "Dali (goddess)\n\nDali (also Daal or Dæl; ) is a goddess who appears in the mythology of the Georgian people of the Caucasus region. She is particularly prominent in the stories of the Svan ethnic subgroup, but others such as the Mingrelians had similar figures considered equivalent to Dali. She is a hunting goddess who serves as the patron of wild mountain animals such as ibex and deer. Hunters who obeyed her numerous taboos would be assured of success in the hunt; conversely, she would harshly punish any who violated them. \n\nShe was usually described as a beautiful nude woman with golden hair and glowing skin, although she sometimes took on the form of her favored animals, usually with some marking to differentiate her from the herd. She was said to reside in a cavern high in the mountains, where she kept watch over the hoofed game animals who live on the cliffs. Dali was styled with a variety of regional epithets reflecting her different roles and associations.\n\nStories of the Svan people depict her taking human lovers and killing them out of jealousy, giving birth to sons such as the culture hero Amirani, and later clashing with her rival Saint George. Some myths depict her working alongside other forest deities, and she is sometimes accompanied by the legendary hunting dog Q'ursha. Later stories, developed after the rise of Christianity in Georgia, conflate Dali with an evil nature spirit called the \"ali\".\n\nMany authors have described parallels between Dali and stories from other mythologies. As a patron of the hunt associated with hoofed beasts, she has been compared with Artemis of Greek mythology, a Scottish hag called the \"glaistig\", and the maiden who tames the unicorn. Her associations with gold, seduction, and the morning star have led scholars to draw connections with goddesses such as Aphrodite and Ishtar, who have similar mythological themes.\n\nHer story remains an important part of Georgian culture. Though most younger people treat her as a mythological figure, some older hunters still consider her to be a real figure that one might encounter deep in the forest.\n\nTraditionally, Dali lived in a cavern high up in the mountains, far away from human settlements. Some traditions specified her home was the distinctive double-peaked mountain Ushba, whose ice-covered south face was sometimes called \"Dalis panjara\", the Window of Dali. The cave's exact location varied; it could be on the side of a glacier, or at the summit of the mountain. Sometimes the entrance was concealed by a rock door which Dali opened and closed to hide her dwelling. Rarely, Dali and her flock lived inside an enormous hollowed-out spruce tree. As a rule, Dali never entered civilized spaces such as villages except on rare occasions, such as the funerals of her human lovers.\n\nDali was usually described as a beautiful young woman with long braided hair. She was most often portrayed as nude, occasionally wearing gold jewellery. Her skin was so white it was literally radiant. Her beauty was extraordinary: \"both irresistible and terrible,\" it could drive a man to madness if he even spoke to her. \n\nDali's long hair was an important component of her mythology. Most stories depicted her hair as gold-colored; in some cases, it was actually made of gold, and shone like the sun. Some stories depicted this gleaming aspect as actual flame, describing the goddess leaving \"little tongues of flame\" in her wake, although this is less prevalent. In some tales, Dali used her supernaturally-strong hair to bind hunters who wronged her. In one story, she used it to strangle a hunter who had stolen one of her hairs to string his hunting bow. \n\nAlthough strong enough to string a bow with, her hair was not invulnerable; indeed, making use of Dali's hair to threaten, harm, or kill her was a recurring motif in stories about her. Multiple tales depict hunters grabbing or cutting Dali's hair in order to subdue and rape her. This tactic did not necessarily prevent the goddess from taking revenge at a later date. In a story about Dali's Mingrelian equivalent, the goddess agrees to become a hunter's wife when he threatens to cut off her luxurious hair. Later, he grows tired of her endlessly washing and combing it, and hides her prized comb so she will stop. She destroys his family, killing one of his children and stealing another, and curses his entire line of descendants in revenge.\n\nWomen could also use Dali's hair against her. A woman whose man had been away hunting too long might cut her own hair off, praying that God would cut Dali's hair in return, which would force the goddess to allow her husband to return home. In one of the major Dali stories, a woman discovers her husband sleeping with Dali. She cuts Dali's hair off in a rage, either killing her or banishing her from the world. In one unusual variation of the hair-cutting motif, a woman wishing to rid her son or her husband of Dali's influence sneaks up on the goddess while she is sleeping and washes her hair, sometimes in deer's milk rather than water. Dali is rendered so powerless, or so grateful, by this act that she becomes the woman's servant. Her Mingrelian equivalent could be dismissed with a similar method, using milk from a black cow instead of deer's milk.\n\nIt is not known if there are any surviving artistic depictions of Dali contemporaneous to her period of prominence. Folklorist Mikheil Chikovani considered the Trialeti Chalice, a Georgian artifact from approximately the 2nd millenium BCE, to depict a round dance in honor of Dali. Folklorist David Hunt also suggested the Chalice could be a depiction of a female mistress of beasts.\n\nThe etymology of Dali's name is not fully clear. Although many figures in Georgian mythology have origins in figures from the early Georgian Orthodox Church, Dali is not among them. It has been suggested that the name comes from the Georgian word \"dila\", meaning \"morning\", or the Ossetian word \"dælimon\" meaning \"demon\", but these links are disputed. Anthropologist Kevin Tuite has linked the name to the various words for \"god\" in the Nakh languages, a group of languages in the Northeast Caucasian language family: \"Chechen \"dēla\", Ingush \"dǣlə\", Bats \"dalě\".\" These words can refer to Allah specifically, or can be used as a general term for pre-Islamic deities in the region. It was characteristic for central Caucasian cultures to replace sacred words with substitutes; this lexical replacement was driven by taboos against speaking the true words. Tuite believed that Dali might originally have had a Svan name that gradually became replaced by the Nakh term for \"god\" as a result of this process.\n\nDali and her equivalents were also known by various epithets reflecting their numerous mythological roles. The Svan called her \"the Queen Dali\". Because she was said to live high in the mountains, she was sometimes referred to as \"Dali of the Rocks\". In the Racha and Kakheti regions she was called \"the Mistress of Beasts\" and the \"Angel of the Crags\". The Mingrelians referred to their equivalent goddess as \"the Queen of the Woods\" or \"the Sovereign of the Forest\".\n\nDali's primary mythological role was that of the mistress and guardian of hoofed game animals of the mountain. She protected her charges, which included deer, ibex, wild sheep, and chamois, just as a shepherd guards a flock. Some stories portray her milking her animals. She was responsible for granting favor or misfortune to hunters, punishing the greedy and ensuring there would always be enough game to go around. \n\nStories involving Dali often feature animals that have been marked in ways that identify them as special: either they are Dali's favorites among the herd, or they are the goddess herself in the form of an animal. Examples of these special features include a purely white coat, unusual markings, or golden horns. Dali could vary her size in both her animal and human forms. When she took the shape of her favored animals, they were often significantly larger or smaller than the usual animals of that kind. She could also make her human form very small: in eastern Georgia, hunters would leave tiny pairs of shoes on the cliffs as an offering to her. \n\nSeveral tales recorded by Georgian folklorist Elene Virsaladze reflect the deadly consequences for a hunter who wounded or killed one of Dali's marked beasts, or hunted too greedily. Two stories describe Dali cursing a hunter's family such that his sons, and later the hunter himself, died as a result. Another story describes Dali destroying the town of Nakvderi with an avalanche as revenge after a hunter wounded a \"tur\" marked by the goddess. In another story, a hunter killed a doe and its fawn, and was cursed by the herd's protector to never have any descendants of his own.\n\nOne Svan story describes the consequences for three brothers who follow one of Dali's mountain goats up into the crags and attempt to shoot them. The first two brothers both miss the goat, and are attacked and killed by Dali, who has been hiding in her cave nearby watching. The third brother watches the goat vanish into Dali's cave, and hides. Dali eventually emerges. The hunter leaps out of hiding, grabs her by the hair, and rapes her. She then becomes his mistress. The story's unusual inclusion of a hunter who overpowers Dali may indicate that it took some influence from an Ossetian legend involving two brothers overcoming a deer-herding witch.\n\nDespite her protectiveness towards her animals, Dali was not necessarily hostile to hunters, and would even grant them blessings if they respected certain taboos and made appropriate offerings to her. These taboos typically revolved around concerns about spiritual purity and prevention of overhunting. Offerings usually involved small personal sacrifices given before and after the hunt.\n\nDali was perceived as extremely sensitive to any kind of pollution entering her mountains, which were considered pure and therefore sacred. She demanded that hunters abstain from the hunt if they were impure in any of a number of ways, usually relating to women and blood, but also associated with foul language, adulterous acts, and recent death. On the night before a hunt, hunters had to refrain from intercourse with any women, even their wives. They had to avoid any contact, sexual or otherwise, with any woman who was in childbirth or menstruating, as menstrual blood was seen to be impure (a form of menstrual taboo). The wives of hunters were also subject to behavioral taboos. In some regions, \"the wives of huntsmen were traditionally forbidden to wash, comb, or unplait their hair\" while their husbands were out on the hunt. In an extension of the hunter's menstrual taboo, women were not permitted to eat meat from the hunt while menstruating, pregnant, or in childbirth.\n\nHunting was treated as a sacred act among the Svan. The hunt began with a sacrifice of a ceremonial bread, called \"lamsir\", which was offered to Dali with a prayer. Hunters were taught not to kill more beasts than they could carry, usually one for each man in the hunting party. If their efforts were successful, hunters would make an offering of organ meat to Dali in thanksgiving. In some traditions, the horns of the animal would be consecrated to Dali once the hunters returned to their village.\n\nIt was believed that hunters who respected these taboos and made correct offerings, thereby avoiding ritual impurity, would always find enough game to ensure that they and their families were fed. Conversely, hunters who became impure by failing to abide by taboos and restrictions could be punished by Dali in a number of ways ranging from failure to find game all the way to death by fatal fall, depending on the severity of the violation. It was sometimes possible to abate Dali's rage after a transgression with appropriate offerings, as in one story where an offering of sacred bread prevented Dali from destroying a village by flooding the Inguri River.\n\nStories involving Dali often depict her taking mortal hunters as lovers, bringing both blessings and peril to the hunter in question. In an inversion of traditional gender roles, it is the goddess who chooses the hunter and initiates the affair. Often, her target was a hunter who had done her a favor such as protecting her from a pursuer. She would give her lovers tokens of affection such as beads, jewellery, or small objects like scissors, which he was required to keep hidden from everyone. A hunter who became Dali's lover would be guaranteed success in the hunt. The goddess might even protect the hunter from human assailants and heal his wounds. In return, he was prohibited from revealing the secret of his good fortune, and from taking any mortal lovers for the duration of the affair. \n\nEngaging in an affair with Dali was a dangerous undertaking. Dali's beauty would inflame the hunter's passions to the point of near-madness, a state that was referred to as being \"\"dalelukdune,\" Dali-possessed\". Afflicted hunters would wander the wilderness aimlessly waiting for the goddess to find them. After the affair was consummated, any appearance of infidelity on the hunter's part could incur the goddess's fatal wrath. He could be attacked by her animals or lured to his death upon a dangerous cliff. Dali's Mingrelian equivalent was known to petrify hunters who offended her. Even if a hunter did survive the liaison, he might be unable to take a mortal lover for the remainder of his life for fear of angering the goddess. \n\nIt was possible for a wily hunter to negotiate terms with Dali, such as limiting the length of the affair, or securing the right to marry a mortal at a later time. As long as the hunter's terms were set before the affair began, Dali would respect them. Some traditions held that a hunter could safely end an affair with Dali by giving his undergarments to a male guest, who would become the new focus of Dali's affections, allowing the original hunter to marry safely.\n\nEven death did not end Dali's obsessive behavior toward her beloved hunters. She would come down from the mountains into villages to grieve dramatically over the bodies of hunters, even those whose deaths she was responsible for in the first place. Some villages had family members stand guard over freshly buried bodies to prevent Dali from unearthing them to weep over. In others, the family would leave the hunter's body alone in the house, enabling Dali to dress the body and mourn over it for a short time.\n\nAlthough not specifically regarded as a fertility goddess, two major myths depict Dali giving birth. In one, the goddess drops her infant after the birth. It is rescued by a hunter, to whom she offers a sexual liaison as a reward. In the second, Dali seduces a hunter, becomes pregnant, and gives birth to a demigod son who becomes a hero.\n\nAlthough she is primarily a hunting deity, Dali has strong associations with symbols and states of transition, such as dawn, the morning star, and New Year's Eve. Svan hunting lore placed significant emphasis on the morning star. Svan hunters were taught to leave their homes before dawn, and arrive at the hunting grounds by its light. Once at the hunting grounds, they would light a small fire and offer a prayer via the morning star to Dali and other hunting deities such as Apsat (the god of small game) or St. George (the patron of hunters). In the story of the hunter Betkil, his death at Dali's hands is sometimes set at the moment that the morning star appears in the sky, or moment the night becomes dawn.\n\nDali was also celebrated on New Year's Eve as the bringer of a peaceful transition from the old year to the new. During these celebrations, she was referred to with the epithet of \"Dæl Ešxwamiš\", or \"Dali of New Year's Eve\". Both male and female heads of household would make offerings of special bread baked from consecrated grain to Dali of New Year's Eve. Georgian ethnologist Vera Bardavelidze documented a number of different forms of this sacred bread from various villages based on fieldwork she conducted in the 1930s. Some loaves would be kept until spring, where they would be crumbled and sown into the earth at a planting festival.\n\nThe most well-known of Dali's affairs is her dalliance with the legendary hunter Betkil or Betgil, who falls to his death from a high cliff after betraying Dali's affections. The story is depicted in the traditional Svan circle dance songs \"Bail Betkil\", \"Betkan Kutsa\" and \"Betkani\". These dances were performed in the Racha region of western Georgia each year on the third Sunday following Easter, at the bottom of the cliff where Betkil is believed to have died. The exact location is uncertain: Tuite mentions the Free Svaneti communes of Mulakh and Muzhal, while folklorist Anna Chaudhri pinpoints the village of Ghebi. The annual performance of these dances was linked to a ritual meant to summon the rain.\n\nThe story begins with Dali selecting and pursuing Betkil. She gives him a token of her favor (\"a bead, ring, or charm\") and demands that he abstain from the touch of mortal females, including his own wife. For a time he is faithful to her, and as a result his hunts are always fruitful. Eventually, he breaks his vow with a mortal woman – most often his wife, but occasionally his sister-in-law – and this woman steals the goddess's love-token. In a rage, Dali transforms herself into a white deer or chamois and lures an unsuspecting Betkil from his village to the top of her mountain. The path closes, crumbles, or melts away behind him, forcing him to continue forward until he reaches the peak. There, Dali returns to her human form and angrily confronts Betkil about his betrayal and the loss of her token. The ground beneath Betkil's feet crumbles away entirely and leaves him hanging by one hand and one foot. Dali disappears, leaving Betkil to either jump or fall to his death. In some versions, prior to his death, Betkil entreats his family to grieve for him in various ways, and laments that his mortal lover allowed him to go out hunting while \"impure\".\n\nIn some variations of the Betkil story, he is accompanied up the mountain by the supernatural dog Q'ursha. In this version, Betkil is trapped on the mountain for several days and consequently runs out of food. Eventually Q'ursha insists that Betkil kill and eat him to survive. In some versions he goes through with it. In others, he kills the hound but cannot bring himself to eat him. Finally, in other versions, he sends Q'ursha to his village for help instead. The villagers come to Betkil's aid and throw ropes to him, but Dali's mountain grows taller and taller and the ropes cannot reach him. Again, he falls to his death.\n\nThe story of Dali giving birth on the crags has been passed down as a song accompanied by a traditional circle dance, called \"Dælil k'ojas khelghwazhale\" (). Linguistic analysis corroborated by archaeological findings indicates that the song is of ancient origin.\n\nThe song begins with a hunter named Mepsay or Mepisa, who hears the goddess crying out in pain from childbirth. Immediately after giving birth, Dali drops the infant down the mountain, where it is snatched up by a waiting wolf. The hunter shoots the wolf and brings the infant back up the mountain to Dali. She offers the hunter a choice of reward: she will gift him with various game animals, or he can become her lover. He warily declines her offer of sexual favors and asks for success in the hunt. Later, he attempts to shoot an ibex with golden horns, not realizing that it is the goddess herself. His bullet ricochets off the ibex's horns and strikes him down, killing him. In this story, the name of the child's father and the fate of the child are never given. \n\nThe second of Dali's childbirth stories has more variations, but generally describes the conception and birth of the culture hero Amirani. In the most prominent version, a hunter finds Dali in the mountains, and she takes him as her lover. After several days together, they are discovered by his angry wife, who cuts off Dali's golden hair or ties her up with it. As a result, Dali is forced to abruptly leave the world (in some variations, the cutting of her hair kills her outright). If she is killed, her pregnancy is discovered after her death. If she is simply banished, she announces that she is pregnant before departing. She declares that her child will be a powerful hero, though not as powerful as he would be had he been carried to term. In either case, her lover reluctantly cuts the infant from her womb. In some versions, the infant is premature and must be placed in the stomach of a bull or the womb of a cow (sometimes both) to complete gestation. Eventually, he is left beside a spring, where he is found by either the Christian God or St. George, and is baptized with the name Amirani. \n\nIn another version of Amirani's birth story, a mortal hunter cuts off Dali's braids while she sleeps and rapes her. She becomes pregnant, and an old hunter named Sulkalmakhi comes across her. She begs him to cut the infant free, and tells the hunter to name him Amirani and care for him as his own.\n\nAlthough Amirani is generally depicted as Dali's son, there is a story from the Guria region called \"Dali and Amirani\" in which Dali, enraged by an unspecified offense, attempts to entrap an adult Amirani. While wandering the mountains with his dog, Amirani sees a flame and begins to follow it up the cliffs, eventually discovering that the flame is Dali's hair. Dali lures Amirani to the top of the mountain by saying she has been looking for him. His dog warns him of her ill intentions, but Amirani disregards the dog's advice and climbs up to meet her. When he reaches the very top of the mountain, Dali disappears and Amirani finds himself hung from the rocks by her hair. His dog, unable to reach him, convinces a bird to pluck the hair away. Just as the bird frees Amirani, Dali returns and curses the bird and its kind to be weak and useless. This is a variation on the story in which Dali strangles an unnamed hunter at the top of a mountain after he stole a hair to string his bow.\n\nLater Svan mythology depicts Dali in opposition to St. George, whose primary function is the protection of \"men exploiting the world outside their villages for the benefit of the community,\" such as shepherds, beekeepers, and most significantly, hunters. The Svan round dance song \"Monadire Chorla\" (\"The Hunter Chorla\"), a late variation of the Betkil story, depicts a significant clash between Dali and St. George. In the song, a hunter named Chorla kills more than his share of ibexes, despite knowing this will anger the goddess. Dali punishes Chorla for his greed by binding him up on a treacherous cliff. Chorla sends his dog for help, and it returns with St. George, who intervenes for Chorla as a reward for his faith in Jesus Christ. St. George threatens to pollute or destroy the mountains with storms and landslides unless Dali releases Chorla, which she does. Furthermore, he places Chorla under his protection and declares that he can hunt without limit in the future.\n\nSome versions of this story refer to a group of spirits, collectively referred to as the Dalis, rather than a singular goddess. Tuite found the plural representation similar to the \"St Georges\" and \"St Elijahs\" of Ossetic mythology, which were groups of spirits sharing traits of the Christian saints they were named for. In contrast, Virsaladze found the change from singular goddess to coven of spirits to be a confirmation that Dali had been relegated to a secondary role in Svan hunting mythology.\n\nDali was not the only hunting deity worshipped by the Svans, and she was sometimes depicted working alongside others. Georges Charachidzé, a French-Georgian scholar of Caucasian culture, recorded that Dali worked with three other Svaneti forest gods to assist the Lord of the Bare Mountain, \"Ber Shishvlish\". These deities were Apsat, the god of small game, \"Cxek'isk angelwez\", the Angel of the Forest, who ruled over forest animals like foxes and bears, and St. George, who was the patron of wolves and hunters. Mikheil Chikovani believed that this multitude of deities represented a later development of the original matriarchal myth, in which Dali was the mistress of all beasts. Particularly, he saw \"Ber Shishvlish\" as an unsuccessful replacement for Dali. \n\nSome groups in eastern Georgia viewed Apsat and Dali as siblings who each took a season in turn protecting herds of wild beasts. When Apsat was in charge of the animals, hunters were said to have an easy time making kills, but when Dali took over, she watched the animals closely, making it much harder for the hunters to bring them down. The Svaneti circle dance \"Metkhvar Mare\" praises both Dali and Apsat in these roles. In some instances, Apsat is represented as Dali's husband or son, or even her father, rather than her sibling.\n\nAnother Georgian hunting deity, Ochopintre or Ochopinte, is often mentioned alongside Dali. Some sources report that they worked together to herd and protect animals from hunters. In contrast, Virsaladze reports that the Khevsurian people of the Khevsureti region viewed the male Ochopintre as far more important than Dali, who they treated as a minor figure.\n\nSome sources refer to Dali being accompanied by hunting dogs, sometimes specifically the legendary black-eared hunting dog Q'ursha. However, Q'ursha is not a consistent feature of Dali stories. He is more commonly depicted accompanying male hunters, including her son, Amirani, as well as the hunter Betkil.\n\nAs Christianity became more prominent in Georgia, many pagan beliefs were altered or appropriated to fit Christian ideology. Dali's functions as the mistress of the hunt began to be shifted to St. George, as in the story of the hunter Chorla, where St. George overrules Dali's punishment of the greedy huntsman. Ethnomusicologist Maka Khardziani identified St. George's victory over Dali in the Chorla story as emblematic of the weakening of pagan beliefs in the face of Christian influence. David Hunt suggested that the story in which Dali attempts to strangle Amirani reflects a Christian rejection of the female goddess, who is reduced to a malicious and \"witch-like\" figure.\nDali's loss of status and power in the Christian era was reflected in altered folk practices. Prayers and sacrifices once offered to Dali were instead offered to St. George. In the village of Tskheta in historic Lechkhumi province, hunters who encountered \"the forest woman\" could dismiss her simply by speaking St. George's name, confirming his power over her. \n\nAs St. George began to eclipse Dali, she became increasingly associated with evil spirits and demonic imagery. Her character became entwined with a kind of evil spirit called the \"ali\". The \"ali\" retained Dali's connection with hunters and high crags, but her supernatural beauty, particularly her radiant hair, was inverted into horrifying ugliness. A spell to protect travelers from the \"ali\" described her as having misplaced features, backwards limbs, a terrible visage, and \"ghastly hair, soiled with blood\". Her malicious aspects were emphasized and her patronage and protection of hunters were downplayed. Dali's favored animals, such as the wild goats and chamois she often transformed into, were used in Christian imagery to depict Satan, an evil entity who opposes the Christian God. This degraded version of Dali is sometimes depicted in the company of devils. Virsaladze and Hunt have both suggested these changes to the Dali myth are a direct consequence of the Christian church altering existing pagan beliefs to associate them with evil in an effort to discredit them. According to Virsaladze, this was not entirely successful, and belief in Dali persisted alongside Christianity, particularly in remote mountainous regions where the Christian church had less influencce. One elderly man that she interviewed during her research in the mid twentieth-century described Dali as both a deity and as a tormenting spirit, indicating that both versions of the myth were still extant in the modern era.\n\nMore than one author has discussed significant parallels between Dali and other mythological figures from other cultures with similar roles and associations. Equivalent figures to Dali appear in the mythologies of many Caucasian groups. Scholarly comparisons to various figures from Greek mythology are also prevalent, and some have argued that these similarities are indicative of contact between the peoples of Ancient Greece and Ancient Georgia. It has been suggested that the Proto-Indo-European dawn goddess Ausos is a possible ancestor of Dali, thereby relating her to several similar goddesses descended from Hausos. Other authors have suggested that Dali represents a preserved version of a particular Western European mythological archetype of a mistress of hunting or beasts, which has become altered or corrupted in other places.\n\nDali was most important to the Svan, to the point of being their most prominent deity. Other Caucasian peoples had myths that described significantly similar deities who may be considered roughly equivalent with Dali, with regional variations. The Mingrelian people of the Samegrelo region of Georgia revered a golden-haired goddess of the hunt called Tkashi-Mapa, who scholars view as an equivalent of Dali due to the overlap in their mythological roles and associations. Both lived in the wilderness, shape-shifted into animals, took mortal lovers, and were dangerously jealous. Tuite, drawing on Chikovani's work in 1972, has proposed that the golden-haired goddess Samdzimari (\"necklace-wearer\") from northeastern Georgia served a similar, even equivalent role to Dali, though she was not explicitly a hunting deity. Samdzimari and Dali were both seductive figures associated with domestic functions who moved in inaccessible or non-civilized spaces. Each serves as the female counterpart of their respective regional version of St. George.\n\nCaucasian cultures that worshipped a male hunting deity often had stories about a figure who served Dali's function as the \"mistress of the beasts\", but was not considered a deity. In many places this figure is known only as the \"forest woman\" or a similar descriptive title. Virsaladze regarded this figure as essentially the same as Dali. The Khevsurians, who worshipped the male Ochopintre, retained the concept of a tiny protectress of the cliffs. The Ossetians, whose primary hunting deity was Æfsati, had a forest woman. The Northern Caucasian Kumyks and the inhabitants of the Lechkhumi and Guria regions each had a forest woman rather than a strong tradition of a hunting goddess. The Avar people of the Northern Caucasus have stories about a \"Forest Beauty\" with golden hair like Dali. The recurring concept of a \"forest woman\" (or less frequently a \"forest man\") has been proposed as possible evidence of a common pan-Caucasian mythology that might have existed before Christianity and Islam came to the Caucasus.\n\nThe \"forest woman\" is a recurring motif in the Nart saga, a loose collection of stories from the Northern Caucasus which underpins much of the mythology of the area. The Digor, an Ossetian subgroup, have a story from about a deer-herding witch who bears some similarities to Dali. Like Dali, she favors a white doe and uses her hair to bind hunters who offend her, although unlike most Dali stories, the hunters overcome the witch in the end. Other Nart saga stories involve goddesses or magical women who, like Dali, transform into deer, have glowing skin, and take hunters as lovers. Tuite has also noted that Dzerassae, a water spirit of the Nart saga, had similarities to Dali: she had golden hair and could change her shape into a fish or a deer. He noted that there might be a link between their names based on the initial syllable, with the shift in phoneme caused by translation into Circassian.\n\nTuite compared Dali in her role as the mother of Amirani to the Greek Nereid Thetis, mother of Achilles. Each goddess took a mortal for a lover and bore a demi-god son. Their sons were destined to be warriors of enormous power, possibly enough to challenge the creator deity of their respective mythologies. Although extremely formidable, neither attains his full potential, and both are eventually defeated. Tuite posits that the similarity between the two myths is indicative of prehistoric contact between the ancient Greek and Caucasian peoples.\n\nClassical scholar Egbert Bakker discussed Dali as a parallel to the Greek witch-goddess Circe of Homer's \"Odyssey\", highlighting their shared aspects: \"protection of animals, sexual predation, dawn and New Year associations,\" and a \"male divine counterpart and adversary.\" He went on to suggest that their similarities indicated a cultural exchange between the Georgians and the Greeks, noting that the Svan homeland is close to the ancient Georgian kingdom of Colchis, a region with close trading connections to Greece. \n\nSome sources have noted a similarity to the Greek goddess Artemis, who was also a patron of wild animals and hunting, although unlike Dali she was known for prudishness rather than promiscuity. Both were associated with transitions and boundaries, especially between civilization and the wilderness.\n\nWriting in the 1940s, the Georgian author Demna Shengelaya examined Dali as an equivalent of the Babylonian goddess Ishtar, identifying themes of matriarchy struggling against patriarchal values reflected in the stories of each. \n\nVirsaladze found similarities between Dali and several related deities including Ishtar, the Phrygian goddess Cybele, Phoenician Astarte, and Carthaginian Tanit, noting that all of these goddesses were associated with a mortal lover in a story cycle that represented the transition to spring and the cyclical rebirth of nature. She particularly stressed the similarities between Dali and Ishtar: sovereignty over animals, an association with dawn, and a sexual aggressiveness that was feared by men. She suggested the possibility that the mythology surrounding Dali represented a preserved form of \"a very ancient cycle of traditions and songs about the interrelations of the mistress, patroness, or sovereign, of the beasts, forest, crags and waters, with a mortal young man.\" According to Virsaladze, this mythological motif is a fragment of a matriarchal belief system which venerated nature and life-giving mother deities, later supplanted by patriarchal ideology.\n\nDrawing on the work of earlier writers such as Walter Burkert and Paul Friedrich, Tuite described mythological similarities between Dali and several other similar goddesses possibly descended from the Proto-Indo-European Ausos, such as the Greek goddesses Aphrodite and Eos, the Sumerian Inanna, and the Babylonian Ishtar. Foremost among these similarities are an association with gold (both as a color and as a precious metal), fertility and patronage of animals, seductive behavior combined with destructive jealousy, and a connection to dawn or the morning star. All together, he refers to these similarities as the \"dawn goddess complex\". Tuite identifies the overarching theme of the dawn goddess complex as ambiguity and transition. He notes that the mythological associations of these goddesses serve as symbols for larger concepts such as transitions between night to day, old to new, and birth to death. In Dali's case, her identification with both the morning star and New Year's Eve directly reinforce her status as a patron of transitions.\n\nDavid Hunt compared the hunting mythology surrounding Dali to the western European concept of the unicorn and the lady who tames it. He noted that stories of the unicorn typically focus on hunting, often in high mountains. Traditional descriptions of the unicorn include features which are characteristic of goats and deer, such as cloven hooves. In turn, hoofed animals are important prey for the hunters of the Caucasian mountains and feature heavily in their mythology. Dali's favored animals were marked in ways that make them similar to the unicorn; in particular, they were often pure white or single-horned. Finally, he found a parallel between the motif of a lady taming the unicorn and the recurring idea of a goddess or supernatural mistress who protects wild game animals. Although he admitted that the evidence was \"circumstantial and sparse,\" he suggested that the unicorn story originated from ancient European hunting mythology, which he believes was preserved in the mythology of the Caucasus after fading elsewhere.\n\nHilda Ellis Davidson and Anna Chaudhri found similarities between stories of Dali and the \"glaistig\" of the Scottish Highlands. The \"glaistig\" was commonly described as a hag who lived high in the mountains and protected hoofed game animals. Like Dali, the \"glaistig\" could be both helpful and malicious, depending on the story in question. Although protective of her animals, in some stories the \"glaistig\" would allow them to be hunted, as long as the hunters were respectful and left appropriate offerings to her. In other stories, the \"glaistig\" would pose as an old woman and prey on hunters staying in mountain huts called bothies. Both Dali and the \"glaistig\" use their supernaturally-strong hair as bindings; Dali binds hunters directly, while the \"glaistig\" binds hunting dogs in order to leave her free to attack their masters. \n\nDavidson and Chaudhri concluded that Dali and the \"glaistig\" each represent a local version of an archetypal figure of a female guardian of the wilderness, which they suggested is a wide-spread mythological theme. Dali represents a preserved form of the myth, where the goddess retains her power and her beauty. In contrast, the \"glaistig\" represents an altered form, where the goddess has been reduced to an ugly hag and is accorded significantly less respect. They argue that similar figures who ranging from seductive to disturbing were once widespread across various European places and cultures, referencing the forest women of Scandinavia, Greek Artemis, and the Irish \"Cailleach\". The later forms where the guardian figure is ugly or wicked represent a version that became prominent after respect for the earlier goddess figures had withered.\n\nDali has retained cultural significance among Georgians into the modern day, particularly in more rural areas where hunting is still practiced as a profession. A survey conducted in 2013 found that, while most people who were either younger or more educated considered Dali to be mythological, many elderly hunters still thought of Dali as a real figure. They recounted stories to the researchers of hunters they knew who had encountered Dali and been injured or driven mad as a result.\n\nIn the modern era, eponyms and literary allusions to Dali indicate the persistence of her narrative in the cultural memory. The Dali Chasma and the Tkashi-mapa Chasma on Venus are named for Dali and her Mingrelian equivalent Tkashi-Mapa. \"Capra dalii\", a fossil species of goat discovered in Georgia, is named for Dali. Fragments of \"C. dalii\" fossils were first located at the Dmanisi archaeological site in 2006, and are believed to be related to the west Caucasian tur, \"capra caucasica\". The Georgian author Grigol Robakidze integrated Dali into his 1932 German-language novel \"Megi - Ein georgisches Mädchen\" in the form of the character Ivlite. He stated that he intended the novel to present a realistic woman who embodied the characteristics of the mythical Medea. Two poems composed after the accidental death of the famed Svan mountain climber Mikheil Khergiani in 1969 refer to Dali mourning his loss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "250984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250984", "title": "Divergent boundary", "text": "Divergent boundary\n\nIn plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. Divergent boundaries within continents initially produce rifts which eventually become rift valleys. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.\n\nCurrent research indicates that complex convection within the Earth's mantle allows material to rise to the base of the lithosphere beneath each divergent plate boundary. \nThis supplies the area with vast amounts of heat and a reduction in pressure that melts rock from the asthenosphere (or upper mantle) beneath the rift area forming large flood basalt or lava flows. Each eruption occurs in only a part of the plate boundary at any one time, but when it does occur, it fills in the opening gap as the two opposing plates move away from each other.\n\nOver millions of years, tectonic plates may move many hundreds of kilometers away from both sides of a divergent plate boundary. Because of this, rocks closest to a boundary are younger than rocks further away on the same plate.\n\nAt divergent boundaries, two plates move away from each other and the space that this creates is filled with new crustal material sourced from molten magma that forms below. The origin of new divergent boundaries at triple junctions is sometimes thought to be associated with the phenomenon known as hotspots. Here, exceedingly large convective cells bring very large quantities of hot asthenospheric material near the surface and the kinetic energy is thought to be sufficient to break apart the lithosphere. The hot spot which may have initiated the Mid-Atlantic Ridge system currently underlies Iceland which is widening at a rate of a few centimeters per year.\n\nDivergent boundaries are typified in the oceanic lithosphere by the rifts of the oceanic ridge system, including the Mid-Atlantic Ridge and the East Pacific Rise, and in the continental lithosphere by rift valleys such as the famous East African Great Rift Valley. Divergent boundaries can create massive fault zones in the oceanic ridge system. Spreading is generally not uniform, so where spreading rates of adjacent ridge blocks are different, massive transform faults occur. These are the fracture zones, many bearing names, that are a major source of submarine earthquakes. A sea floor map will show a rather strange pattern of blocky structures that are separated by perpendicular to the ridge axis. If one views the sea floor between the fracture zones as conveyor belts carrying the ridge on each side of the rift away from the spreading center the action becomes clear. Crest depths of the old ridges, parallel to the current spreading center, will be older and deeper... (from thermal contraction and subsidence).\n\nIt is at mid-ocean ridges that one of the key pieces of evidence forcing acceptance of the seafloor spreading hypothesis was found. Airborne geomagnetic surveys showed a strange pattern of symmetrical magnetic reversals on opposite sides of ridge centers. The pattern was far too regular to be coincidental as the widths of the opposing bands were too closely matched. Scientists had been studying polar reversals and the link was made by Lawrence W. Morley, Frederick John Vine and Drummond Hoyle Matthews in the Morley–Vine–Matthews hypothesis. The magnetic banding directly corresponds with the Earth's polar reversals. This was confirmed by measuring the ages of the rocks within each band. The banding furnishes a map in time and space of both spreading rate and polar reversals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8758", "title": "Douglas Hofstadter", "text": "Douglas Hofstadter\n\nDouglas Richard Hofstadter (born February 15, 1945) is an American professor of cognitive science whose research focuses on the sense of self in relation to the external world, consciousness, analogy-making, artistic creation, literary translation, and discovery in mathematics and physics. Hofstadter's book \"Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid\", first published in 1979, won both the Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction\nand a National Book Award (at that time called The American Book Award) for Science. His 2007 book \"I Am a Strange Loop\" won the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Science and Technology.\n\nHofstadter was born in New York City, the son of Nobel Prize-winning physicist Robert Hofstadter and Nancy Givan Hofstadter. He grew up on the campus of Stanford University, where his father was a professor, and he attended the International School of Geneva in 1958–1959. He graduated with Distinction in Mathematics from Stanford University in 1965, and received his Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Oregon in 1975, where his study of the energy levels of Bloch electrons in a magnetic field led to his discovery of the fractal known as the Hofstadter butterfly.\n\nSince 1988, Hofstadter has been the College of Arts and Sciences Distinguished Professor of Cognitive Science and Comparative Literature at Indiana University in Bloomington, where he directs the Center for Research on Concepts and Cognition which consists of himself and his graduate students, forming the \"Fluid Analogies Research Group\" (FARG). He was initially appointed to the Indiana University's Computer Science Department faculty in 1977, and at that time he launched his research program in computer modeling of mental processes (which at that time he called \"artificial intelligence research\", a label that he has since dropped in favor of \"cognitive science research\"). In 1984, he moved to the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, where he was hired as a professor of psychology and was also appointed to the Walgreen Chair for the Study of Human Understanding. In 1988 he returned to Bloomington as \"College of Arts and Sciences Professor\" in both cognitive science and computer science. He was also appointed adjunct professor of history and philosophy of science, philosophy, comparative literature, and psychology, but has said that his involvement with most of those departments is nominal. In 1988 Hofstadter received the \"In Praise of Reason\" award, the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry's highest honor. In April 2009 he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the American Philosophical Society. In 2010 he was elected a member of the Royal Society of Sciences in Uppsala, Sweden.\n\nHofstadter's many interests include music, visual art, the mind, creativity, consciousness, self-reference, translation and mathematics.\n\nAt the University of Michigan and Indiana University, he co-authored, with Melanie Mitchell, a computational model of \"high-level perception\" – Copycat – and several other models of analogy-making and cognition, including the Tabletop project, co-developed with Robert M. French. Hofstadter's doctoral student James Marshall subsequently extended the Copycat project under the name \"Metacat\". The Letter Spirit project, implemented by Gary McGraw and John Rehling, aims to model the act of artistic creativity by designing stylistically uniform \"gridfonts\" (typefaces limited to a grid). Other more recent models include Phaeaco (implemented by Harry Foundalis) and SeqSee (Abhijit Mahabal), which model high-level perception and analogy-making in the microdomains of Bongard problems and number sequences, respectively, as well as George (Francisco Lara-Dammer), which models the processes of perception and discovery in triangle geometry.\n\nThe pursuit of beauty has driven Hofstadter both inside and outside his professional work. He seeks beautiful mathematical patterns, beautiful explanations, beautiful typefaces, beautiful sonic patterns in poetry, \"etc\". Hofstadter has said of himself, \"I'm someone who has one foot in the world of humanities and arts, and the other foot in the world of science.\" He has had several exhibitions of his artworks in various university art galleries. These shows have featured large collections of his gridfonts, his ambigrams (pieces of calligraphy created with two readings, either of which is usually obtained from the other by rotating or reflecting the ambigram, but sometimes simply by \"oscillation\", like the Necker Cube or the rabbit/duck figure of Joseph Jastrow), and his \"Whirly Art\" (music-inspired visual patterns realized using shapes based on various alphabets from India). (Hofstadter invented the term \"ambigram\" in 1984; many ambigrammists all over the world have since taken up the concept.)\n\nHofstadter collects and studies cognitive errors (largely, but not solely, speech errors), \"bon mots\" (spontaneous humorous quips), and analogies of all sorts, and his long-time observation of these diverse products of cognition, and his theories about the mechanisms that underlie them, have exerted a powerful influence on the architectures of the computational models developed by himself and FARG members.\n\nAll FARG computational models share certain key principles, including:\n\n\nFARG models also have an overarching philosophy that all cognition is built from the making of analogies. The computational architectures that share these precepts are called \"active symbols\" architectures.\n\nHofstadter's thesis about consciousness, first expressed in \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\" (\"GEB\") but also present in several of his later books, is that it is an emergent consequence of seething lower-level activity in the brain. In \"GEB\" he draws an analogy between the social organization of a colony of ants and the mind seen as a coherent \"colony\" of neurons. In particular, Hofstadter claims that our sense of having (or being) an \"I\" comes from the abstract pattern he terms a \"strange loop\", which is an abstract cousin of such concrete phenomena as audio and video feedback, and which Hofstadter has defined as \"a level-crossing feedback loop\". The prototypical example of this abstract notion is the self-referential structure at the core of Gödel's incompleteness theorems. Hofstadter's 2007 book \"I Am a Strange Loop\" carries his vision of consciousness considerably further, including the idea that each human \"I\" is distributed over numerous brains, rather than being limited to precisely one brain.\n\nHofstadter's writing is characterized by an intense interaction between form and content, as exemplified by the 20 dialogues in \"GEB\", many of which simultaneously talk about and imitate strict musical forms used by Bach, such as canons and fugues. Most of Hofstadter's books feature some kind of structural alternation: in \"GEB\" between dialogues and chapters, in \"The Mind's I\" between selections and reflections, in \"Metamagical Themas\" between Chapters and Postscripts, and so forth. Both in his writing and in his teaching, Hofstadter stresses the concrete, constantly using examples and analogies, and avoids the abstract. Typical of the courses he teaches is his seminar \"Group Theory and Galois Theory Visualized\", in which abstract mathematical ideas are rendered as concretely as possible. He puts great effort into making ideas clear and visual, and asserts that when he teaches, if his students do not understand something, it is never their fault but always his own.\n\nHofstadter is passionate about languages. In addition to English, his mother tongue, he speaks French and Italian fluently (the language spoken at home with his children is Italian). At various times in his life, he has studied (in descending order of level of fluency reached) German, Russian, Spanish, Swedish, Mandarin, Dutch, Polish, and Hindi. His love of sounds pushes him to strive to minimize, and ideally get rid of, any foreign accent.\n\n\"Le Ton beau de Marot: In Praise of the Music of Language\" is a long book devoted to language and translation, especially poetry translation, and one of its leitmotifs is a set of some 88 translations of \"Ma Mignonne\", a highly constrained poem by 16th-century French poet Clément Marot. In this book, Hofstadter jokingly describes himself as \"pilingual\" (meaning that the sum total of the varying degrees of mastery of all the languages that he's studied comes to 3.14159 ...), as well as an \"oligoglot\" (someone who speaks \"a few\" languages).\n\nIn 1999, the bicentennial year of Russian poet and writer Alexander Pushkin, Hofstadter published a verse translation of Pushkin's classic novel-in-verse \"Eugene Onegin\". Hofstadter has translated many other poems too (always respecting their formal constraints), and two novels (in prose): \"La Chamade\" (\"That Mad Ache\") by French writer Françoise Sagan, and \"La Scoperta dell'Alba\" (\"The Discovery of Dawn\") by Walter Veltroni, the then head of the Partito Democratico in Italy. \"The Discovery of Dawn\" was published in 2007, and \"That Mad Ache\" was published in 2009, bound together with Hofstadter's essay \"Translator, Trader: An Essay on the Pleasantly Pervasive Paradoxes of Translation\".\n\nHofstadter's Law states that \"It always takes longer than you expect, even when you take into account Hofstadter's Law.\" The Law is outlined in his work \"Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid\".\n\nHofstadter's former Ph.D. students include (with dissertation title):\n\n\nHofstadter has said that he feels \"uncomfortable with the nerd culture that centers on computers\". He admits that \"a large fraction [of his audience] seems to be those who are fascinated by technology\", but when it was suggested that his work \"has inspired many students to begin careers in computing and artificial intelligence\" he replied that he was pleased about that, but that he himself has \"no interest in computers\". In that interview he also mentioned a course he has twice given at Indiana University, in which he took a \"skeptical look at a number of highly-touted AI projects and overall approaches\". For example, upon the defeat of Garry Kasparov by Deep Blue, he commented that \"It was a watershed event, but it doesn't have to do with computers becoming intelligent\".\n\nProvoked by predictions of a technological singularity (a hypothetical moment in the future of humanity when a self-reinforcing, runaway development of artificial intelligence causes a radical change in technology and culture), Hofstadter has both organized and participated in several public discussions of the topic. At Indiana University in 1999 he organized such a symposium, and in April 2000, he organized a larger symposium entitled \"Spiritual Robots\" at Stanford University, in which he moderated a panel consisting of Ray Kurzweil, Hans Moravec, Kevin Kelly, Ralph Merkle, Bill Joy, Frank Drake, John Holland and John Koza. Hofstadter was also an invited panelist at the first Singularity Summit, held at Stanford in May 2006. Hofstadter expressed doubt about the likelihood of the singularity coming to pass in the foreseeable future.\n\nIn 1988 Dutch director Piet Hoenderdos created a docudrama about Hofstadter and his ideas, \"Victim of the Brain\", based on \"The Mind's I\". It includes interviews with Hofstadter about his work.\n\nWhen Martin Gardner retired from writing his \"Mathematical Games\" column for \"Scientific American\" magazine, Hofstadter succeeded him in 1981–1983 with a column entitled \"Metamagical Themas\" (an anagram of \"Mathematical Games\"). An idea he introduced in one of these columns was the concept of \"Reviews of This Book\", a book containing nothing but cross-referenced reviews of itself which has an online implementation. One of Hofstadter's columns in \"Scientific American\" concerned the damaging effects of sexist language, and two chapters of his book \"Metamagical Themas\" are devoted to that topic, one of which is a biting analogy-based satire entitled \"A Person Paper on Purity in Language\" (1985), in which the reader's presumed revulsion at racism and racist language is used as a lever to motivate an analogous revulsion at sexism and sexist language; Hofstadter published it under the pseudonym William Satire, an allusion to William Safire. Another column reported on the discoveries made by University of Michigan professor Robert Axelrod in his computer tournament pitting many iterated prisoner's dilemma strategies against each other, and a follow-up column discussed a similar tournament that Hofstadter and his graduate student Marek Lugowski organized. The \"Metamagical Themas\" columns ranged over many themes, and included, to name just three, one on patterns in Frédéric Chopin's piano music (particularly the études), another on the concept of superrationality (choosing to cooperate when the other party/adversary is assumed to be equally intelligent as oneself), and one on the self-modifying game of Nomic, based on the way in which the legal system modifies itself, and developed by philosopher Peter Suber.\n\nHofstadter was married to Carol Ann Brush until her death. They met in Bloomington, and married in Ann Arbor in 1985. They had two children, Danny and Monica. Carol died in 1993 from the sudden onset of a brain tumor – glioblastoma multiforme – when their children were five and two. The Carol Ann Brush Hofstadter Memorial Scholarship for Bologna-bound Indiana University students was established in 1996 in her name. Hofstadter's book \"Le Ton beau de Marot\" is dedicated to their two children and its dedication reads \"To M. & D., living sparks of their Mommy's soul\".\n\nIn the fall of 2010, Hofstadter met Baofen Lin in a chacha class, and the two were married in Bloomington in September 2012.\n\nHofstadter has composed numerous pieces for piano, and a few for piano and voice. He created an audio CD with the title \"DRH/JJ\", which includes all these compositions performed primarily by pianist Jane Jackson, but with a few performed by Brian Jones, Dafna Barenboim, Gitanjali Mathur and himself.\n\nThe dedication for \"I Am A Strange Loop\" is: \"To my sister Laura, who can understand, and to our sister Molly, who cannot.\" Hofstadter explains in the preface that his younger sister Molly never developed the ability to speak or understand language.\n\nAs a consequence of his attitudes about consciousness and empathy, Hofstadter has been a vegetarian for roughly half his life.\n\nIn the 1982 novel \"\", Arthur C. Clarke's first sequel to \"\", HAL 9000 is described by Dr. Chandra as being caught in a \"Hofstadter–Möbius loop\". The movie uses the term \"H. Möbius loop\".\n\nOn April 3, 1995, Hofstadter's book \"Fluid Concepts & Creative Analogies: Computer Models of the Fundamental Mechanisms of Thought\" was the first book ever sold by Amazon.com.\n\nThe books published by Hofstadter are (the ISBNs refer to paperback editions, where available):\n\n\nHofstadter has written, among many others, the following papers:\n\n\nHofstadter has also written over 50 papers that were published through the Center for Research on Concepts and Cognition.\n\nHofstadter has written forewords for or edited the following books:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19454208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19454208", "title": "Dynamic topography", "text": "Dynamic topography\n\nThe term dynamic topography is used in geodynamics to refer to elevation differences caused by the flow within the Earth's mantle.\n\nIn geodynamics, \"dynamic topography\" refers to topography generated by the motion of zones of differing degrees of buoyancy (convection) in the Earth's mantle. It is also seen as the residual topography obtained by removing the isostatic contribution from the observed topography (i.e., the topography that cannot be explained by an isostatic equilibrium of the crust or the lithosphere resting on a fluid mantle) and all observed topography due to post-glacial rebound. Elevation differences due to dynamic topography are frequently on the order of a few hundred meters to a couple of kilometers. Large scale surface features due to dynamic topography are mid-ocean ridges and oceanic trenches. Other prominent examples include areas overlying mantle plumes such as the African superswell.\n\nThe mid-ocean ridges are high due to dynamic topography because the upwelling hot material underneath them pushes them up above the surrounding seafloor. This provides an important driving force in plate tectonics called ridge push: the increased gravitational potential energy of the mid-ocean ridge due to its dynamic uplift causes it to extend and push the surrounding lithosphere away from the ridge axis. Dynamic topography and mantle density variations can explain 90% of the long-wavelength geoid after the hydrostatic ellipsoid is subtracted out.\n\nDynamic topography is the reason why the geoid is high over regions of low-density mantle. If the mantle were static, these low-density regions would be geoid lows. However, these low-density regions move upwards in a mobile, convecting mantle, elevating density interfaces such as the core-mantle boundary, 440 and 670 kilometer discontinuities, and the Earth's surface. Since both the density and the dynamic topography provide approximately the same magnitude of change in the geoid, the resultant geoid is a relatively small value (being the difference between large but similar numbers).\n\nThe geological history of the Colorado Plateau during the last 30 million years has been considerably affected by dynamic topography. At first, between 30 and 15 million years ago, the plateau was greatly uplifted. Then, in a second phase, between 15 and 5 million years ago the plateau was tilted to the east. Finally, in the last 5 million years the western part of the plateau has been tilted to the west. The plateau would have reached its high elevation of 1,400 m.a.s.l. due to dynamic topography.\nIn Patagonia a Miocene transgression has been attributed to a down-dragging effect of mantle convection. A subsequent regression in the Late Miocene and Pliocene and further Quaternary uplift in the eastern coast of Patagonia may in turn have been caused a decrease in this convection. The Miocene dynamic topography that developed in Patagonia advanced as a wave from south to north following the northward shift of the Chile Triple Junction and the asthenospheric window associated to it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1849092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1849092", "title": "Early Cretaceous", "text": "Early Cretaceous\n\nThe Early Cretaceous (geochronological name) or the Lower Cretaceous (chronostratigraphic name), is the earlier or lower of the two major divisions of the Cretaceous. It is usually considered to stretch from 146 Ma to 100 Ma.\n\nDuring this time many new types of dinosaurs appeared or came into prominence, including ceratopsians, spinosaurids, carcharodontosaurids and coelurosaurs, while survivors from the Late Jurassic continued.\n\nAngiosperms (flowering plants) appeared for the first time during the Early Cretaceous. This time also saw the evolution of the first members of the Neornithes (modern birds).\n\n"}
{"id": "32204189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32204189", "title": "East African montane forests", "text": "East African montane forests\n\nThe East African montane forests is a montane tropical moist forest ecoregion of eastern Africa. The ecoregion comprises several separate areas above 2000 meters in the mountains of South Sudan, Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania.\n\nThe East African montane forests extend across a total of , in 25 separate enclaves, which range in size from 23,700 to 113 square kilometers. The northernmost enclave is on Mount Kinyeti in the Imatong Mountains of Southern Sudan, extending south through Mount Moroto in eastern Uganda and Mount Elgon on the Kenya-Uganda border. In Kenya and Tanzania, the ecoregion follows the mountains east and west of the Eastern Rift and associated volcanoes, including the Aberdare Range, Mount Kenya, Mount Kulal, Mount Nyiru, Bukkol, and the Nguruman Escarpment in Kenya, and Mount Kilimanjaro, Mount Meru, Ngorongoro, and the Marang forests (Mbulu and Hanang) in northern Tanzania.\n\nThe ecoregion consists of montane forests, grasslands, and savannas, transitioning to the East African montane moorlands on the highest peaks. The ecoregion is home to the Afromontane flora, which occurs in the mountains of eastern Africa, and is distinct from the lowland flora.\n"}
{"id": "432019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432019", "title": "Fresno scraper", "text": "Fresno scraper\n\nThe Fresno Scraper is a machine pulled by horses used for constructing canals and ditches in sandy soil. The design of the Fresno Scraper forms the basis of most modern earthmoving scrapers, having the ability to scrape and move a quantity of soil, and also to discharge it at a controlled depth, thus quadrupling the volume which could be handled manually.\n\nThe Fresno scraper was invented in 1883 by James Porteous. Working with farmers in Fresno, California, he had recognised the dependence of the Central San Joaquin Valley on irrigation, and the need for a more efficient means of constructing canals and ditches in the sandy soil. In perfecting the design of his machine, Porteous made several revisions on his own and also traded ideas with William Deidrick, Frank Dusy, and Abijah McCall, who invented and held patents on similar scrapers. Porteous bought the patents held by Deidrick, Dusy, and McCall, gaining sole rights to the Fresno Scraper.\n\nPrior scrapers pushed the soil ahead of them, while the Fresno scraper lifted it into a C-shaped bowl where it could be dragged along with much less friction. By lifting the handle, the operator could cause the scraper to bite deeper. Once soil was gathered, the handle could be lowered to raise the blade off the ground so it could be dragged to a low spot, and dumped by raising the handle very high.\n\nThis design was so revolutionary and economical that it has influenced the design of modern bulldozer blades and earth movers to this day.\n\nBetween 1884 and 1910 thousands of Fresno scrapers were produced at the Fresno Agricultural Works which had been formed by Porteous, and used in agriculture and land levelling, as well as road and railroad grading and the construction industry. They played a vital role in the construction of the Panama Canal and later served the US Army in World War I.\n\nIt was one of the most important agricultural and civil engineering machines ever made. In 1991 the Fresno Scraper was designated as an International Historic Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. It is currently on display at the San Joaquin County Historical Society & Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1092739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1092739", "title": "Gran Chaco", "text": "Gran Chaco\n\nThe Gran Chaco or Dry Chaco is a sparsely populated, hot and semi-arid lowland natural region of the Río de la Plata basin, divided among eastern\nBolivia, western Paraguay, northern Argentina and a portion of the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul, where it is connected with the Pantanal region. This land is sometimes called the Chaco Plain.\n\nThe name Chaco comes from a word in Quechua, an indigenous language from the Andes and highlands of South America. The quechua word \"chaqu\" meaning \"hunting land\" comes probably from the rich variety of animal life present throughout the entire region.\n\nThe Gran Chaco is about 647,500 km² (250,000 sq mi) in size, though estimates differ. It is located west of the Paraguay River and east of the Andes, and is mostly an alluvial sedimentary plain shared among Paraguay, Bolivia and Argentina. It stretches from about 17° to 33° South latitude and between 65° and 60° West longitude, though estimates differ.\n\nHistorically the Chaco has been divided in three main parts: the \"Chaco Austral\" or Southern Chaco, south of the Bermejo River and inside Argentinian territory, blending into the Pampa region in its southernmost end; the \"Chaco Central\" or Central Chaco between the Bermejo and the Pilcomayo River to the north, also now in Argentinian territory; and the \"Chaco Boreal\" or Northern Chaco, north of the Pilcomayo up to the Brazilian Pantanal, inside Paraguayan territory and sharing some area with Bolivia.\n\nLocals sometimes divide it today by the political borders, giving rise to the terms Argentinian Chaco, Paraguayan Chaco and Bolivian Chaco. (Inside Paraguay, people sometimes use the expression Central Chaco for the area roughly in the middle of the Chaco Boreal, where Mennonite colonies are established.)\n\nThe Chaco Boreal may be divided in two: closer to the mountains in the west, the \"Alto Chaco\" (Upper Chaco), sometimes known as \"Chaco Seco\" (or Dry Chaco), is very dry and sparsely vegetated. To the east, less arid conditions combined with favorable soil characteristics permit a seasonally dry higher-growth thorn tree forest, and further east still higher rainfall combined with improperly drained lowland soils result in a somewhat swampy plain called the \"Bajo Chaco\" (Lower Chaco), sometimes known as \"Chaco Húmedo\" (Humid Chaco). It has a more open savanna vegetation consisting of palm trees, quebracho trees and tropical high-grass areas, with a wealth of insects. The landscape is mostly flat and slopes at a 0.004 degree gradient to the east. This area is also one of the distinct physiographic provinces of the Parana-Paraguay Plain division.\n\nThe areas more hospitable to development are along the Paraguay, Bermejo and Pilcomayo Rivers. It is a great source of timber and tannin, which is derived from the native \"quebracho\" tree. Special tannin factories have been constructed there. The wood of the palo santo from the Central Chaco is the source of oil of guaiac (a fragrance for soap). Paraguay also cultivates mate in the lower part of the Chaco.\n\nLarge tracts of the central and northern Chaco have high soil fertility, sandy alluvial soils with elevated levels of phosphorus and a topography that is favorable for agricultural development. Other aspects are challenging for farming: a semi-arid to semi-humid climate (600–1300 mm annual rainfall) with a six-month dry season and sufficient fresh groundwater restricted to roughly one third of the region, two thirds being without groundwater or with groundwater of high salinity. Soils are generally erosion prone once the forest has been cleared. In the central and northern Paraguay Chaco, occasional dust storms have caused major top soil loss.\n\nThe Chaco was occupied by nomadic peoples, notably the various groups making up the Guaycuru who resisted Spanish control, often with success, of the Chaco from the 16th until the early 20th century. \n\nPrior to national independence of the nations that compose the Chaco, the entire area was a separate colonial region named by the Spaniards as \"Chiquitos\".\n\nThe Gran Chaco had been a disputed territory since 1810. Officially, it was supposed to be part of Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay, although a bigger land portion west of the Paraguay River had belonged to Paraguay since its independence. Argentina claimed territories south of the Bermejo River until Paraguay's defeat in the War of the Triple Alliance in 1870 established its current border with Argentina.\n\nOver the next few decades, Bolivia began to push the natives out and settle in the Gran Chaco, while Paraguay ignored it. Bolivia sought the Paraguay River for shipping oil out into the sea (it had become a land-locked country after the loss of its Pacific coast in the War of the Pacific), and Paraguay claimed ownership of the land. This became the backdrop to The Gran Chaco War (1932–1935) between Paraguay and Bolivia over supposed oil in the Chaco Boreal (the aforementioned region north of the Pilcomayo River and to the west of the Paraguay River). Eventually, Argentine Foreign Minister Carlos Saavedra Lamas mediated a cease fire and subsequent treaty signed in 1938, which gave Paraguay three quarters of the Chaco Boreal and gave Bolivia a corridor to the Paraguay River with the ability to use the Puerto Casado and the right to construct their own port. In the end, no oil was found in the region.\n\nThe region is home to over nine million people, divided about evenly among Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and including around 100,000 in Paraguay. The area remains relatively underdeveloped, In the 1960s, the Paraguayan authorities constructed the Trans-Chaco Highway and the Argentine National Highway Directorate, National Routes 16 and 81, in an effort to encourage access and development. All three highways extend about from east to west and are now completely paved, as are a network of nine Brazilian highways in Mato Grosso do Sul State.\n\nThe Gran Chaco has some of the highest temperatures on the continent. \n\nIt has high biodiversity, containing around 3,400 plant species, 500 birds, 150 mammals and 220 reptiles and amphibians.\n\nThe floral characteristics of the Gran Chaco are varied given the large geographical span of the region. The dominant vegetative structure is xerophytic deciduous forests with multiple layers including a canopy (trees), sub-canopy, shrub layer and herbaceous layer. There are ecosystems such as riverine forests, wetlands, savannas, and cactus stands as well.\n\nAt higher elevations of the eastern zone of the Humid/Sub-humid Chaco there are transitional mature forests from the wet forests of Southern Brazil. These woodlands are dominated by canopy trees such as \"Handroanthus impetiginosus\" and characterized by frequent lianas and epiphytes. This declines to seasonally flooded forests, at lower elevations, that are dominated by \"Schinopsis\" spp., a common plains tree genus often harvested for its tannin content and dense wood. The understory comprises bromeliad and cactus species as well as hardy shrubs like \"Schinus fasciculatus\". These lower areas lack lianas but have abundant epiphytic species like \"Tillandsia\".\nThe river systems that flow through the area, such as the Rio Paraguay and Rio Parana allow for seasonally flooded semi evergreen gallery forests that hold riparian species such as \"Tessaria integrifolia\" and \"Salix humboltiana\". Other seasonally flooded ecosystems of this area include palm dominated (\"Copernicia alba\") savannas with a bunch grass dominated herbaceous layer.\n\nTo the west, in the Semi-Arid/Arid Chaco, there are medium-sized forests consisting of \"Aspidosperma quebracho-blanco\" and \"Schinopsis quebracho\" with a slightly shorter subcanopy made up of several species from the Fabaceae family as well as several arboreal cacti species that distinguish this area of the Chaco. There is a scrub-like shrub and herbaceous layer. On sandy soils, the thick woodlands turn into savannas where the aforementioned species prevail as well as species like \"Jacaranda mimosifolia\". The giant \"Stetsonia coryne\", found throughout the western Semi-Arid/Arid region becomes very conspicuous in these sandy savannas. \nThere are various upland systems of plant associations that occur throughout the Gran Chaco. The Highlands of the Argentinian Chaco are made up of, on the dry, sunny side (up to 1800m), \"Schinopsis haenkeana\" woodlands. The cooler side of the uplands hosts \"Zanthoxylum coco\" (locally referred to as Fagara coco) and Schinus molleoides (locally referred to as \"Lithrea molleoides\") as the predominant species. Other notable species include \"Bougainvillea stipitata\", and several spp. from Fabaceae. The Paraguyan uplands have other woodland slope ecosystems, notably, those dominated by \"Anadenanthera colubrina\" on moist slopes. Both of these upland systems, as well as numerous other Gran Chaco areas, are rich with endemism.\n\nFaunal diversity in the Gran Chaco is high as well.The Gran Chaco has high levels of biodiversity, containing around 3,400 plant species, 500 birds, 150 mammals and 220 reptiles and amphibians. Animals typically associated with tropical and subtropical forests are often found throughout the eastern humid Chaco, including jaguars, howler monkeys, peccaries, deer, and tapirs. \"Edentate\" species, including anteaters and armadillos, are readily seen here as well. Being home to at least ten species, the Argentinian Chaco is the location of the peak diversity for the armadillo, including species such as the nine-banded armadillo (\"Dasypus novemcinctus\") whose range extends north to the southern US, and the southern three-banded armadillo (\"Tolypeutes matacus\"). The pink fairy armadillo (\"Chlamyphrous truncates\"), is found nowhere else in the world. The giant armadillo (\"Priodontes maximus\"), while not found in the eastern humid Chaco, can be seen in the drier arid Chaco of the west. Some other notable endemics of the region include the San Luis tuco-tuco (\"Ctenomys pontifex\"). This small rodent is only found in the Argentinian Chaco. All of 60 species of Ctenomys are endemic to the continent of South America. The Chacoan peccary (\"Catagonus wagneri\"), locally known as tauga, is the largest of the three peccary species found in the area. This species was thought to be extinct by scientists until 1975, when it was recorded by Dr. Ralph Wetzel.\n\nDue to the climatic regime of the Gran Chaco, herpetofauna are restricted to moist refugia in various places throughout the chaco. Rotting logs, debris piles, old housing settlement, wells, and seasonal farm ponds are examples of such refugia. \nThe black-legged seriema (\"Chunga burmeisteri\"), blue-crowned parakeet (\"Aratinga acuticadauta\"), Picui ground dove (\"Columbina picui\"), guira cuckoo (\"Guira guira\"), little thornbird (\"Phacellodomus sibilatrix\") and many-colored Chaco finch (\"Saltaitricula multicolor\") are notable of the 409 bird species that are resident or breed in the Gran Chaco. 252 of these Chaco species are endemic to South America.\n\nIn September 1995, the Kaa-Iya del Gran Chaco National Park and Integrated Management Natural Area was established in an area of the Chaco in Bolivia. It is administered and was established solely by the indigenous peoples, including the Izoceño Guaraní, the Ayoreode, and the Chiquitano.\n\nThe Chaco is one of South America's last agricultural frontiers. Very sparsely populated and lacking sufficient all-weather roads and basic infrastructure (the Argentinian part is more developed than the Paraguayan or Bolivian part), it has long been too remote for crop planting. The central Chaco's Mennonite colonies are a notable exception.\n\nTwo factors may substantially change the Chaco in the near future: low land valuations\nand the region's suitability to grow fuel crops.\nSuitability for the cultivation of \"Jatropha\" has been proven. \nSweet sorghum as an ethanol plant may prove viable, too, since sorghum is a traditional local crop for domestic and feedstock use. The feasibility of switchgrass is currently being studied by Argentina's INTA, as is the Karanda’y palm tree in the Paraguayan Chaco.\n\nWhile advancements in agriculture can bring some improvements in infrastructure and employment for the region, loss of habitat / virgin forest is substantial and will likely increase poverty. Paraguay, after having lost more than 90% of its Atlantic Rainforest between 1975 and 2005, is now losing its xerophytic forest (dry forests) in the Chaco at an annual rate of (2008)\nIn mid-2009 a projected law, initiated by the Liberal Party, that would have outlawed deforestation in the Paraguayan Chaco altogether, \"Deforestacion Zero en el Chaco\" did not get a majority in the parliament.\n\nDeforestation in the Argentinian part of the Chaco amounted to an average of per year between 2001 and 2007\n\nAccording to Fundación Avina, a local NGO, on average, 1130 hectares are cut down per day – this equals 2300 football fields. The soy plantations not only eliminate the forest, but also other types of agriculture as well. Indigenous communities are losing their land to agrobusinesses. Since 2007, there is a law which is supposed to regulate and control the cutting of timber in the Gran Chaco, but illegal logging continues.\n\nAmong the profiteers of the newly created agricultural areas in the Paraguayan Gran Chaco are U.S.-based agribusinesses Cargill Inc., Bunge Ltd. and Archer Daniels Midland Co..\n\n \nThe following Argentine provinces, Bolivian and Paraguayan departments and Brazilian states lie in the Gran Chaco area, either entirely or in part.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3190134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3190134", "title": "Jos Plateau", "text": "Jos Plateau\n\nThe Jos Plateau is a plateau located near the centre of Nigeria. It covers 8600 km² and is bounded by 300-600 m escarpments around much of its circumference. With an average altitude of 1280 m, it is the largest area over 1000 m in Nigeria, with a high point of 1829 m, in the Shere Hills. The plateau has given its name to the Plateau State in which it is found and is itself named for the state's capital, Jos.\n\nThe Jos Plateau is dominated by three rock types. The Older Granites date to the late Cambrian and Ordovician. The Younger Granites are emplacements dating to the Jurassic, and forming part of a series that includes the Aïr Massif in the central Sahara. There are also many volcanoes and sheets of basalt extruded since the Pliocene (Morgan 1983).\n\nThe Younger Granites contain tin which was mined since the beginning of the 20th century, during and after the colonial period.\n\nImportant rivers are Kaduna, Gongola, Hadejia and Yobe, which have their source in this place.\n\nThe climate on the Plateau is the semi-temperate climate with temperatures ranging from to .\n\nThe Jos Plateau is home to the ancient Nok culture, known for its remarkable terracotta artwork.\n\nAfter the British colonization of Nigeria, Jos Plateau became a mining region and one of the most important tourist destinations in Nigeria, but touristic activity was impeded in early 21st century by a new conflict between Christians and Muslims as a result of tribal and political differences between the inhabitants of the Jos Plateau.\n\nThe Jos Plateau lies in the Nigerian Middle Belt, and even in this region known for cultural diversity, it is unusually diverse. Barbour et al. (1982:49) show over 60 ethno-linguistic groups on the plateau. Most of the plateau's languages are in the Chadic family (Isichei 1982), which is part of the Afro-Asiatic family. Two of the Plateau's largest ethnic groups are the Berom, in the northern Plateau, and the Angas in the southeast. Smaller groups include the Mwaghavul, Pyem, Ron, Afizere, Anaguta, Aten, Irigwe, Chokfem, and Kofyar.\n\nThe plateau is home to West Africa’s only population of klipspringer (\"Oreotragus oreotragus\"), as well as several endemic birds and mammals, including Nigerian mole-rat (\"Cryptomys foxi\") and Fox's shaggy rat (\"Dasymys foxi\") the rock firefinch (\"Lagonosticta sanguinodorsalis\") and the Jos Plateau indigobird (\"Vidua maryae\").\n\nThe Jos plateau is a heavily populated area with loss of native savanna and woodland to farmland conversion and firewood collection; remaining native fauna is predominately limited to small areas in the more remote areas and river embankments. There is currently no conservation program for this ecoregion.\n\nDue to tin mining activity some 320 km² of agricultural land has been disturbed. The situation has been improved since by local farmers due to usage of traditional as well as modern fertilisation methods which combined includes manure, urban waste ash and inorganic fertilizers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5536112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5536112", "title": "Jurodidae", "text": "Jurodidae\n\nThe beetle family Jurodidae was originally described from fossils, but in 1996, a single species from the Russian Far East, described as Sikhotealinia zhiltzovae, was found and later was recognized to be a living representative of this otherwise extinct family (a \"living fossil\"). Since then, this beetle, known from only a single specimen, has been the source of contention, as it is reported to possess three ocelli on its forehead, a condition otherwise unknown in the entire order Coleoptera, whether extinct or living - though it is common in other orders, and generally considered a groundplan character for neopteran insects. If true, this species may represent the most archaic of all living beetles. However, other authorities have challenged this interpretation, and have further suggested that this beetle does not even belong to the Archostemata. This may not be possible to resolve until additional specimens are collected, allowing for genetic analysis.\n\n"}
{"id": "173062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173062", "title": "List of Arecaceae genera", "text": "List of Arecaceae genera\n\nThis is a list of all the genera in the botanical family Arecaceae, the palm tree family, arranged by tribes within the family.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37247934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37247934", "title": "List of Nakshatras", "text": "List of Nakshatras\n\nIn Hindu astrology, there are 27 nakshatras (\"lunar mansions\"), or sectors along the ecliptic. A list of them is first found in the \"Vedanga Jyotisha\", a text dated to the final centuries BCE. The nakshatra system predates the influence of Hellenistic astronomy on vedic tradition, which became prevalent from about the 2nd century CE. There are various systems of enumerating the nakshatras; although there are 28 days to a sidereal month, by custom only 27 days are used, the last 28th day being considered unlucky. The following list gives the corresponding regions of sky.\n\nThe 27 Nakshatras cover 13°20’ of the ecliptic each. Each Nakshatra is also divided into quarters or \"padas\" of 3°20’, and the below table lists the appropriate starting sound to name the child. The 27 nakshatras, each with 4 padas, give 108, which is the number of beads in a japa mala, indicating all the elements (ansh) of Vishnu:\n\nThe names of nakshatras in other languages are adapted from the Sanskrit variation (apabhramsa) through Pali or Prakrit. The variations evolved for easier pronunciation in popular usage.\n"}
{"id": "30419260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30419260", "title": "List of banana cultivars", "text": "List of banana cultivars\n\nThe following is a list of banana cultivars and the groups into which they are classified. Almost all modern cultivated varieties (cultivars) of edible bananas and plantains are hybrids and polyploids of two wild, seeded banana species, \"Musa acuminata\" and \"Musa balbisiana\". Cultivated bananas are almost always seedless (parthenocarpic) and hence sterile, so they are propagated vegetatively (cloned). They are classified into groups according to a genome-based system introduced by Ernest Cheesman, Norman Simmonds, and Ken Shepherd, which indicates the degree of genetic inheritance from the two wild parents and the number of chromosomes (ploidy). Cultivars derived from \"Musa acuminata\" are more likely to be used as dessert bananas, while those derived from \"Musa balbisiana\" and hybrids of the two are usually plantains or cooking bananas.\n\nBanana plants were originally classified by Linnaeus into two species, which he called \"Musa paradisiaca\" – those used as cooking bananas (plantains), and \"M. sapientum\" – those used as dessert bananas. The primary center of diversity of cultivated bananas is Southeast Asia. Botanical exploration of this area led to many more species being named, along with subspecies and varieties. However, this approach proved inadequate to deal with the large number of cultivated varieties (cultivars) which were discovered, and many of the names later proved to be synonyms. Furthermore, it was discovered that most cultivated bananas are actually hybrids between two wild species, \"M. acuminata\" and \"M. balbisiana\", both first described in 1820 by the Italian botanist Luigi Aloysius Colla, and that Linnaeus' two \"species\" were both this hybrid, which is now called \"M.\" × \"paradisiaca\". Unlike the wild species, which have seeds, cultivated bananas are almost always seedless (parthenocarpic) and hence sterile, so they have to be propagated vegetatively.\n\nIn 1955, researchers Norman Simmonds and Ken Shepherd proposed abandoning traditional Latin-based botanical names for cultivated bananas. This approach foreshadowed the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants which, in addition to using Latin names based on the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants, gives cultivars names in a currently spoken language, enclosed in single quotes, and organizes them into \"cultivar groups\", also not given Latin names.\n\nBanana cultivars derived from \"M. acuminata\" and \"M. balbisiana\" can be classified into cultivar groups using two criteria. The first is the number of chromosomes: whether the plant is diploid, triploid or tetraploid. The second is relationship to the two ancestral species, which may be determined by genetic analysis or by a scoring system devised by Simmonds and Shepherd. A cultivar is scored on 15 characters, chosen because they differ between the two species. Each character is given a score between one and five according to whether it is typical of \"M. acuminata\" or of \"M. babisiana\" or is in between. Thus the total score for a cultivar will range from 15 if all characters agree with \"M. acuminata\" to 75 if all characters agree with \"M. balbisiana\". Intermediate scores suggest mixed ancestry: for example, 45 would be expected for diploids with equal genetic contributions from both species.\n\nGroups are then named using a combination of the letters \"A\" and \"B\". The number of letters shows the ploidy; the proportion of As and Bs the contributions of the ancestral species. The AAB Group, for example, comprises triploid cultivars with more genetic inheritance from \"M. acuminata\" than \"M. balbisiana\". A character score of around 35 is expected for members of this group. Within groups, cultivars may be divided into subgroups and then given a cultivar name, e.g. \"Musa\" AAA Group (Cavendish Subgroup) 'Robusta'.\n\nIn practice, the scoring system and the associated grouping is not as straightforward as the Simmonds and Shepherd naming system implies. For example, a member of the AAB Group should have a score about one third of the way between \"M. acuminata\" and \"M. balbisiana\" (i.e. about 35) if one third of its chromosomes come from \"M. balbisiana\". However, the cultivars 'Silk' and 'Pome', both classified in the AAB Group, scored 26 and 46 respectively. The cultivar 'Pelipita' is placed in the ABB group, so should have 11 of its 33 chromosomes derived from \"M. acuminata\". However, a technique called \"genomic \"in situ\" hybridization\" (GISH) showed that actually only 8 chromosomes were of this origin. Other lines of evidence suggest a more complex genome structure is present in other banana cultivars, so the group names should not be taken at face value.\n\nThe total number of cultivars of bananas and plantains has been estimated to be anything from around 300 to more than 1000. Names are highly confused, even within a single country. Many common names do not refer to a single cultivar or clone; for example 'Lady's Finger' or 'Lady Finger' has been used as the name for members of different genome groups, including AA and AAB. Many other names are synonyms of cultivars grown in the same or different countries. Attempts have been made to create lists of synonyms. In 2000, Valmayor et al. listed equivalent local names for 68 cultivars across five Southeast Asian countries (the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam), together with their internationally used names. They considered a further 81 cultivars to be unique to one country. In 2007, Ploetz et al. listed more cultivar names and synonyms, with an emphasis on those grown in the islands of the Pacific, but including some grown in areas such as India, Africa and South America. As an example, for the widely grown cultivar 'Dwarf Cavendish', they gave 58 synonyms from 29 different countries or geographical areas. ProMusa has created a checklist of banana cultivar names based on available literature.\n\nA recent development is the use of \"somaclones\" in banana cultivation. Micropropagation involves growing plants from very small amounts of source tissue, sometimes even a single cell, under sterile conditions using artificial techniques to induce growth. The purpose of micropropagation is often to produce a large number of genetically identical offspring. However, by inducing mutations through various means, it is possible to produce plants which differ slightly from the \"parent\" plant and from each other (\"somaclonal variations\"). By growing on these somaclones and selecting those with desirable features, new cultivars can be produced which are very similar to an existing cultivar, but differ in one or two features, such as disease resistance. Somaclones may only be distinguishable by genetic analysis.\n\nDiploid \"Musa acuminata\", both wild banana plants and cultivars\n\n\nTriploid \"Musa acuminata\", both wild banana plants and cultivars\n\n\nTetraploid \"Musa acuminata\", both wild bananas and cultivars\n\n\nTetraploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\"\n\n\nTriploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\". This group contains the Plantain subgroup, composed of \"true\" plantains or African Plantains - whose centre of diversity is Central and West Africa, where a large number of cultivars were domesticated following the introduction of ancestral Plantains from Asia, possibly 2000–3000 years ago.\n\nThe Iholena and Maoli-Popo'ulu subgroups are referred to as Pacific plantains.\n\n\nTetraploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\"\n\n\nDiploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\"\n\n\nTriploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\"\n\n\nTetraploid cultivars of \"Musa\" × \"paradisiaca\"\n\n\nDiploid \"Musa balbisiana\", wild bananas\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8984261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8984261", "title": "List of barley diseases", "text": "List of barley diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of barley (\"Hordeum vulgare\").\n\n"}
{"id": "6838094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6838094", "title": "List of botanical gardens in Italy", "text": "List of botanical gardens in Italy\n\nThis list of botanical gardens in Italy is intended to include all significant botanical gardens and arboretums in Italy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2468946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2468946", "title": "List of civilian nuclear accidents", "text": "List of civilian nuclear accidents\n\nThis article lists notable civilian accidents involving fissile nuclear material or nuclear reactors. Military accidents are listed at List of military nuclear accidents. Civil radiation accidents not involving fissile material are listed at List of civilian radiation accidents. For a general discussion of both civilian and military accidents, see Nuclear and radiation accidents.\n\nIn listing civilian nuclear accidents, the following criteria have been followed:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42200204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42200204", "title": "List of invasive plant species in New Mexico", "text": "List of invasive plant species in New Mexico\n\nNumerous plants have been introduced to New Mexico in the United States, and many of them have become invasive species. The following are some of these species:\n\n"}
{"id": "56073935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56073935", "title": "List of mountains and hills of the Westerwald", "text": "List of mountains and hills of the Westerwald\n\nThis list of mountains and hills of the Westerwald contains a selection of the mountains, hills and high points of the Westerwald range which lies in the German states of Hesse, North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate. The Westerwald is, in turn, part of the Rhenish Massif and includes some or all of the nature parks of Bergisches Land, Nassau, Rhine-Westerwald and Siebengebirge.\n\nThe table is arranged in order of height in metres (m) above Normalhöhennull (NHN; unless otherwise stated ). By clicking on the symbols at the head of each column, it can be resorted . In the column \"Mountain or hill\", alternative names are given in brackets, italics and small lettering. In this column, where there are two or more mountains or hills with the same name they are distinguished by their location in brackets and small lettering.\n\nThe abbreviations used in the table are explained below.\n\nThe abbreviations used in the table (in alphabetical order) mean:\n\nDistricts or counties:\n\nFederal states:\n\nFeatures:\n"}
{"id": "33009346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33009346", "title": "List of mountains in Mongolia", "text": "List of mountains in Mongolia\n\nMongolia has three major mountain ranges. The highest is the Altai Mountains, which stretch across the western and the southwestern regions of the country on a northwest-to-southeast axis. The Khangai Mountains, mountains also trending northwest to southeast, occupy much of central and north-central Mongolia. These are older, lower, and more eroded mountains, with many forests and alpine pastures. The Khentii Mountains near the Russian border to the northeast of Ulaanbaatar, are lower still.\n\nThirteen mountain is capped with a glacier in Mongolia.\n\nThe following is a list of mountains in Mongolia:\n\n"}
{"id": "36101385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36101385", "title": "List of protected areas of the Philippines", "text": "List of protected areas of the Philippines\n\nThis is a list of protected areas of the Philippines administered by the Department of Environment and Natural Resources' Biodiversity Management Bureau under the National Integrated Protected Areas System (NIPAS) Act of 1992. As of 2013, there are 240 protected areas in the Philippines covering a total area of – 14.2% of the Philippines' total area.\n\nThe first important legislation that formed the basis of the current system of national parks and protected areas in the Philippines is the Philippine Commission Act No. 648 enacted in 1903 by the US Congress. This act authorized the Civil Governor to \"reserve for civil public purposes, and from sale or settlement, any part of the public domain not appropriated by law for special public purposes.\"\n\nA total of eight national reserves had been established on July 26, 1904 pursuant to this law. These are: Lamao Forest Reserve in Bataan, Mariquina Reserve in Rizal, Angat River Reserve in Bulacan, Caliraya Falls Reserve in Laguna, La Carlota Reserve in Negros Occidental, San Ramon Reserve in Zamboanga, Magalang Reserve in Pampanga, and Hacienda San Antonio in Isabela. In the same year, the Forest Act of 1904 (\"Act No. 1148\") was adopted that expanded the scope of protected areas in the Philippines. Among the first of such mountain forest reserves to be declared was Mount Maquiling declared on November 21, 1910.\n\nOn February 1, 1932, the National Parks Act (\"Act No. 3195\") was enacted that formally established the national parks system in the country. Mount Arayat became the first national park in the Philippines established on June 27, 1933 following this act.\n\nA series of acts and legislations were passed in the next decades that aimed to further strengthen these policies, including the Revised Forestry Code of 1975 (\"Presidential Decree No. 705\") and Forest Administrative Order No. 7. Following the 1987 Constitution, the National Integrated Protected Areas System Act was enacted which further enhanced the administration and classification of protected areas, and broadened the mandate of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources in enforcing its provisions.\n\nProtected areas in the Philippines encompass of terrestrial areas and of marine areas. They are managed according to the following classifications described in Section 4 of the National Integrated Protected Areas System Act of 1992 (NIPAS Act).\n\n\"National parks refer to forest reservations essentially of natural wilderness character which have been withdrawn from settlement, occupancy or any form of exploitation except in conformity with approved management plan and set aside as such exclusively to conserve the area or preserve the scenery, the natural and historic objects, wild animals and plants therein and to provide enjoyment of these features in such areas.\"\n\n\"Natural parks are relatively large areas not materially altered by human activity where extractive resource uses are not allowed and maintained to protect outstanding natural and scenic areas of national or international significance for scientific, educational and recreational use.\"\n\n World Heritage Site or part of a World Heritage Site\n\"A natural monument is a relatively small area focused on protection of small features to protect or preserve nationally significant natural features on account of their special interest or unique characteristics.\"\n\n\"Protected landscapes/seascapes are areas of national significance which are characterized by the harmonious interaction of man and land while providing opportunities for public enjoyment through recreation and tourism within the normal lifestyle and economic activity of these areas.\"\n\n\"Strict nature reserve is an area possessing some outstanding ecosystem, features and/or species of flora and fauna of national scientific importance maintained to protect nature and maintain processes in an undisturbed state in order to have ecologically representative examples of the natural environment available for scientific study, environmental monitoring, education, and for the maintenance of genetic resources in a dynamic and evolutionary state.\"\n\n\"Resource reserve is an extensive and relatively isolated and uninhabited area normally with difficult access designated as such to protect natural resources of the area for future use and prevent or contain development activities that could affect the resource pending the establishment of objectives which are based upon appropriate knowledge and planning.\"\n\n\"Natural biotic area is an area set aside to allow the way of life of societies living in harmony with the environment to adapt to modem technology at their pace.\"\n\"Wildlife sanctuary comprises an area which assures the natural conditions necessary to protect nationally significant species, groups of species, biotic communities or physical features of the environment where these may require specific human manipulation for the perpetuation.\"\n\n World Heritage Site or part of a World Heritage Site\n"}
{"id": "30205550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30205550", "title": "List of ribus", "text": "List of ribus\n\nINOLX is a service provider company in local area\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2715546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2715546", "title": "List of rivers of Chad", "text": "List of rivers of Chad\n\nThis is a list of rivers in Chad. This list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20504800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20504800", "title": "List of rivers of Haiti", "text": "List of rivers of Haiti\n\nThis is a list of rivers of Haiti, arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.Some are longer than others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19944144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19944144", "title": "List of supernovae", "text": "List of supernovae\n\nThis is a list of supernovae that are of historical significance. These include supernovae that were observed prior to the availability of photography, and individual events that have been the subject of a scientific paper that contributed to supernova theory.\n\n\"In most entries, the year when the supernova was seen is part of the designation (1st column).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "59018588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59018588", "title": "Lobang Jepang", "text": "Lobang Jepang\n\nLobang Jepang or Lubang Jepang, which means Japanese tunnel is an underground military complex, which is now one of the historical tourist attraction in the city of Bukittinggi, West Sumatra in Indonesia. The Japanese tunnel is a protection tunnel built by the Japanese occupying army around 1942 for defense purposes, which was fully completed in June, 1944. It was first discovered in the early 1950's and opened to the tourists in 1994. As is known, during World War II in 1942 Japanese occupied force had begun to be pressured by Allied forces, and started to construct many hiding tunnels across the archipelago of then Dutch East Indies , not only in Bukittinggi, but also in cities of Bandung and Biak, as well as other places in Indonesia.\n\nThe tunnel was made by the instructions of Lieutenant General Moritake Tanabe, Commander in Chief of the 25th Army of the Japanese Army. The purpose of building this tunnel was to use as a place for storing supplies and equipment for Japanese army warfare. this tunnel, including the reconnaissance room, ambush room, prison, and arsenal.\nIn addition to its strategic location in a city that was once the center of Sumatra's government, the land that became the wall of this tunnel is a type of land which if mixed with water will be more robust. Even the earthquake that shook West Sumatra in 2009 did not damage the structure of the tunnel much.\n\nIt is estimated that tens of thousands of forced labor or romusha were mobilized from the islands of Java, Sulawesi and Kalimantan to dig this tunnel. The selection of labor from outside this area is a Japanese colonial strategy to maintain the secrecy of this mega project. Workers from Bukittinggi themselves were deployed including working on defense tunnels in Bandung and Biak Island. Thousands of labor died to build this tunnel.\n\nJapanese tunnel began to be managed as historical attractions in 1984, by the city government of Bukittinggi. Some of the entrances to this Japanese tunnel are located in the Sianok Gorge area, Panorama Park, next to the Bung Hatta Palace and at the Bukittinggi Zoo.Only 1.5 kilometers of this tunnel is accessible for tourists, which is touted as the longest tunnel in Asia with a total length of up to 8 Km. The winding tunnel had a width of about 2 meters, with a depth of 49 meters below ground. There are 21 small aisles whose functions vary, ranging from ammunition rooms, meeting rooms, escape doors, ambush rooms, kitchen room and prisons. \n\nApparently the kitchen room wasn't used not only for cooking,but also used to chop dead prisoners and dump them through the water hole down. In this place there are 2 small holes, one above for reconnaissance, and one more hole below which was then used to dispose of the bodies of forced workers and prisoners of war who died due to cruel torture of Japanese soldiers. On the four sides of the kitchen wall there are strokes. In the kitchen there is a concrete table which was allegedly used to execute prisoners. When the tunnel was not opened to the public, there were skulls and tools to build like hoes, which are now kept in museum.\n"}
{"id": "28076584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28076584", "title": "Marine Technology Society", "text": "Marine Technology Society\n\nThe Marine Technology Society (MTS) is a professional society that serves the international community of approximately 3,800 ocean engineers, technologists, policy-makers, and educators. The goal of the society, which was founded in 1963, is to promote awareness, understanding, advancement and application of marine technology. The association is based in Washington, District of Columbia, United States. Former executive directors include Martin Finnerty, Judith T. Krauthamer and Richard Lawson.\n\nThe society consists of 29 technical disciplines and presently has 17 sections, including overseas sections in Japan, Korea and Norway. In addition, MTS has 23 student sections at colleges and universities with related fields of study.\n\nThe flagship publication of the society is the MTS Journal. The journal is published 6 times annually and primarily features themed issues consisting of invited papers. The journal has a current ISI Impact Factor of .763\n\nMTS sponsors several conferences of note, including the OCEANS Conference (co-sponsosed with IEEE/OES), Underwater Intervention (co-sponsored with ADCI), Dynamic Positioning Conference, biennial Buoy Workshop (co-sponsored with the Office of Naval Research), and the hot-topic workshop series TechSurge.\n\nIn 1969 the group held its annual convention in Miami Beach. The convention was addressed by Spiro Agnew, who was then Vice President of the United States.\n\nIn 1993 the laser line scan, a U.S. Navy photography secret, made its debut at the society sponsored trade show in New Orleans.\n"}
{"id": "3595285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3595285", "title": "Maximum power principle", "text": "Maximum power principle\n\nThe maximum power principle or Lotka's principle has been proposed as the fourth principle of energetics in open system thermodynamics, where an example of an open system is a biological cell. According to Howard T. Odum, \"The maximum power principle can be stated: During self-organization, system designs develop and prevail that maximize power intake, energy transformation, and those uses that reinforce production and efficiency.\"\n\nChen (2006) has located the origin of the statement of maximum power as a formal principle in a tentative proposal by Alfred J. Lotka (1922a, b). Lotka's statement sought to explain the Darwinian notion of evolution with reference to a physical principle. Lotka's work was subsequently developed by the systems ecologist Howard T. Odum in collaboration with the Chemical Engineer Richard C. Pinkerton, and later advanced by the Engineer Myron Tribus.\n\nWhile Lotka's work may have been a first attempt to formalise evolutionary thought in mathematical terms, it followed similar observations made by Leibniz and Volterra and Ludwig Boltzmann, for example, throughout the sometimes controversial history of natural philosophy. In contemporary literature it is most commonly associated with the work of Howard T. Odum.\n\nThe significance of Odum's approach was given greater support during the 1970s, amid times of oil crisis, where, as Gilliland (1978, pp. 100) observed, there was an emerging need for a new method of analysing the importance and value of energy resources to economic and environmental production. A field known as energy analysis, itself associated with net energy and EROEI, arose to fulfill this analytic need. However, in energy analysis intractable theoretical and practical difficulties arose when using the energy unit to understand, a) the conversion among concentrated fuel types (or energy types), b) the contribution of labour, and c) the contribution of the environment.\n\nLotka said (1922b: 151): \nGilliland noted that these difficulties in analysis in turn required some new theory to adequately explain the interactions and transactions of these different energies (different concentrations of fuels, labour and environmental forces). Gilliland (Gilliland 1978, p. 101) suggested that Odum's statement of the maximum power principle (H.T.Odum 1978, pp. 54–87) was, perhaps, an adequate expression of the requisite theory:\nThis theory Odum called maximum power theory. In order to formulate maximum power theory Gilliland observed that Odum had added another law (the maximum power principle) to the already well established laws of thermodynamics. In 1978 Gilliland wrote that Odum's new law had not yet been validated (Gilliland 1978, p. 101). Gilliland stated that in maximum power theory the second law efficiency of thermodynamics required an additional physical concept: \"the concept of second law efficiency under maximum power\" (Gilliland 1978, p. 101):\nIn this way the concept of maximum power was being used as a principle to quantitatively describe the selective law of biological evolution. Perhaps H.T.Odum's most concise statement of this view was (1970, p. 62):\n\nThe Odum–Pinkerton approach to Lotka's proposal was to apply Ohm's law – and the associated maximum power theorem (a result in electrical power systems) – to ecological systems. Odum and Pinkerton defined \"power\" in electronic terms as the rate of work, where Work is understood as a \"useful energy transformation\". The concept of maximum power can therefore be defined as the \"maximum rate of useful energy transformation\". Hence the underlying philosophy aims to unify the theories and associated laws of electronic and thermodynamic systems with biological systems. This approach presupposed an analogical view which sees the world as an ecological-electronic-economic engine.\n\nOdum et al. viewed the maximum power theorem as a principle of power-efficiency reciprocity selection with wider application than just electronics. For example, Odum saw it in open systems operating on solar energy, like both photovoltaics and photosynthesis (1963, p. 438). Like the maximum power theorem, Odum's statement of the maximum power principle relies on the notion of 'matching', such that high-quality energy maximizes power by matching and amplifying energy (1994, pp. 262, 541): \"in surviving designs a matching of high-quality energy with larger amounts of low-quality energy is likely to occur\" (1994, p. 260). As with electronic circuits, the resultant rate of energy transformation will be at a maximum at an intermediate power efficiency. In 2006, T.T. Cai, C.L. Montague and J.S. Davis said that, \"The maximum power principle is a potential guide to understanding the patterns and processes of ecosystem development and sustainability. The principle predicts the selective persistence of ecosystem designs that capture a previously untapped energy source.\" (2006, p. 317). In several texts H.T. Odum gave the Atwood machine as a practical example of the 'principle' of maximum power.\n\nThe mathematical definition given by H.T. Odum is formally analogous to the definition provided on the maximum power theorem article. (For a brief explanation of Odum's approach to the relationship between ecology and electronics see Ecological Analog of Ohm's Law)\n\nWhether or not the principle of maximum power efficiency can be considered the fourth law of thermodynamics and the fourth principle of energetics is moot. Nevertheless, H.T. Odum also proposed a corollary of maximum power as the organisational principle of evolution, describing the evolution of microbiological systems, economic systems, planetary systems, and astrophysical systems. He called this corollary the maximum empower principle. This was suggested because, as S.E. Jorgensen, M.T. Brown, H.T. Odum (2004) note,\n\nC. Giannantoni may have confused matters when he wrote \"The \"Maximum Em-Power Principle\" (Lotka–Odum) is generally considered the \"Fourth Thermodynamic Principle\" (mainly) because of its practical validity for a very wide class of physical and biological systems\" (C. Giannantoni 2002, § 13, p. 155). Nevertheless, Giannantoni has proposed the Maximum Em-Power Principle as the fourth principle of thermodynamics (Giannantoni 2006).\n\nThe preceding discussion is incomplete. The \"maximum power\" was discovered several times independently, in physics and engineering, see: Novikov (1957), El-Wakil (1962), and Curzon and Ahlborn (1975). The incorrectness of this analysis and design evolution conclusions was demonstrated by Gyftopoulos (2002).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8787159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8787159", "title": "Objections to evolution", "text": "Objections to evolution\n\nObjections to evolution have been raised since evolutionary ideas came to prominence in the 19th century. When Charles Darwin published his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", his theory of evolution (the idea that species arose through descent with modification from a single common ancestor in a process driven by natural selection) initially met opposition from scientists with different theories, but eventually came to receive overwhelming acceptance in the scientific community. The observation of evolutionary processes occurring (as well as the modern evolutionary synthesis explaining that evidence) has been uncontroversial among mainstream biologists since the 1940s.\n\nSince then, most criticisms and denials of evolution have come from religious groups, rather than from the scientific community. Although many religious groups have found reconciliation of their beliefs with evolution, such as through theistic evolution, other religious groups continue to reject evolutionary explanations in favor of creationism, the belief that the universe and life were created by supernatural forces. The U.S.-centered creation–evolution controversy has become a focal point of perceived conflict between religion and science.\n\nSeveral branches of creationism, including creation science, neo-creationism, and intelligent design, argue that the idea of life being directly designed by a god or intelligence is at least as scientific as evolutionary theory, and should therefore be taught in public education. Such arguments against evolution have become widespread and include objections to evolution's evidence, methodology, plausibility, morality, and scientific acceptance. The scientific community does not recognize such objections as valid, pointing to detractors' misinterpretations of such things as the scientific method, evidence, and basic physical laws.\n\nEvolutionary ideas came to prominence in the early 19th century with the theory of the transmutation of species put forward by Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Evolution was at first opposed among the scientific community, notably by Georges Cuvier, and religious grounds. The idea that laws control nature and society gained vast popular audiences with George Combe's \"The Constitution of Man\" of 1828 and the anonymous \"Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation\" of 1844. When Charles Darwin published his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", he convinced most of the scientific community that new species arise through descent through modification in a branching pattern of divergence from common ancestors, but while most scientists accepted that natural selection is a valid and empirically testable hypothesis, Darwin's view that it is the primary mechanism of evolution was rejected by some.\n\nDarwin's contemporaries eventually came to accept the transmutation of species based upon fossil evidence, and the X Club was formed to defend evolution against the church and wealthy amateurs. At that time the specific evolutionary mechanism which Darwin provided of natural selection was actively disputed by scientists in favour of alternative theories such as Lamarckism and orthogenesis. Darwin's gradualistic account was also opposed by saltationism and catastrophism. Lord Kelvin led scientific opposition to gradualism on the basis of his thermodynamic calculations that the Earth was between 24 and 400 million years old, and own views favoured a version of theistic evolution accelerated by divine guidance. This age of the earth was disputed by geological estimates, which gained strength in 1907 when radioactive dating of rocks showed that the Earth was billions of years old. The specific hereditary mechanism Darwin hypothesized of pangenesis that supported gradualism also lacked any supporting evidence and was disputed by the empirical tests of Francis Galton. Although evolution was unchallenged, uncertainties about the mechanism in the eclipse of Darwinism persisted from the 1880s until the 1930s inclusion of Mendelian inheritance and the rise of the modern evolutionary synthesis. The modern synthesis rose to universal acceptance among biologists with the help of new evidence, such as genetics, which confirmed Darwin's predictions and refuted the competing theories.\n\nProtestantism, especially in America, broke out in \"acrid polemics\" and argument about evolution from 1860 to the 1870s—with the turning point possibly marked by the death of Louis Agassiz in 1873—and by 1880 a form of \"Christian evolution\" was becoming the consensus. In Britain, while publication of \"The Descent of Man\" by Darwin in 1871 reinvigorated debate from the previous decade, Sir Henry Chadwick notes a steady acceptance of evolution \"among more educated Christians\" between 1860 and 1885. As a result, evolutionary theory was \"both permissible and respectable\" by 1876. Frederick Temple's lectures on \"The Relations between Religion and Science\" (1884) on how evolution was not \"antagonistic\" to religion highlighted this trend. Temple's appointment as Archbishop of Canterbury in 1896 demonstrated the broad acceptance of evolution within the church hierarchy.\n\nFor decades the Roman Catholic Church avoided official refutation of evolution. However, it would rein in Catholics who proposed that evolution could be reconciled with the Bible, as this conflicted with the First Vatican Council's (1869–70) finding that everything was created out of nothing by God, and to deny that finding could lead to excommunication. In 1950, the encyclical \"Humani generis\" of Pope Pius XII first mentioned evolution directly and officially. It allowed one to enquire into the concept of humans coming from pre-existing living matter, but not to question Adam and Eve or the creation of the soul. In 1996, Pope John Paul II said that evolution is \"more than a hypothesis\" and acknowledged the large body of work accumulated in its support, but reiterated that any attempt to give a material explanation of the human soul is \"incompatible with the truth about man.\" Pope Benedict XVI has reiterated the conviction that human beings \"are not some casual and meaningless product of evolution. Each of us is the result of a thought of God. Each of us is willed, each of us is loved, each of us is necessary.\" At the same time, he has promoted the study of the relationship between the concepts of creation and evolution, based on the conviction that there cannot be a contradiction between faith and reason. Along these lines, the research project Thomistic Evolution, run by a team of Dominican scholars, endeavours to reconcile the scientific evidence on evolution with the teaching of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nMuslim reaction ranged from those believing in literal creation from the Quran to many educated Muslims who subscribed to a version of theistic or guided evolution in which the Quran reinforced rather than contradicted mainstream science. This occurred relatively early, as medieval madrasahs taught the ideas of Al-Jahiz, a Muslim scholar from the 9th century, who proposed concepts similar to natural selection. However, acceptance of evolution remains low in the Muslim world, as prominent figures reject evolution's underpinning philosophy of materialism as unsound to human origins and a denial of Allah. Further objections by Muslim authors and writers largely reflect those put forward in the Western world.\n\nRegardless of acceptance from major religious hierarchies, early religious objections to Darwin's theory are still used in opposition to evolution. The ideas that species change over time through natural processes and that different species share common ancestors seemed to contradict the Genesis account of Creation. Believers in Biblical infallibility attacked Darwinism as heretical. The natural theology of the early 19th century was typified by William Paley's watchmaker analogy, an argument from design still used by the creationist movement. Natural theology included a range of ideas and arguments from the outset, and when Darwin's theory was published, ideas of theistic evolution were presented in which evolution is accepted as a secondary cause open to scientific investigation, while still holding belief in God as a first cause with a non-specified role in guiding evolution and creating humans. This position has been adopted by denominations of Christianity and Judaism in line with modernist theology which views the Bible and Torah as allegorical, thus removing the conflict between evolution and religion.\n\nHowever, in the 1920s Christian fundamentalists in the United States developed their literalist arguments against modernist theology into opposition to the teaching of evolution, with fears that Darwinism had led to German militarism and was a threat to religion and morality. This opposition developed into the creation–evolution controversy involving Christian literalists in the United States objecting to the teaching of evolution in public schools. Although early objectors dismissed evolution as contradicting their interpretation of the Bible, this argument was legally invalidated when the Supreme Court ruled in \"Epperson v. Arkansas\" in 1968 that forbidding the teaching of evolution on religious grounds violated the Establishment Clause.\n\nSince then creationists have developed more nuanced objections to evolution, alleging variously that it is unscientific, infringes on creationists' religious freedoms, or that the acceptance of evolution is a religious stance. Creationists have appealed to democratic principles of fairness, arguing that evolution is controversial and that science classrooms should therefore \"Teach the Controversy.\" These objections to evolution culminated in the intelligent design movement in the 1990s and early 2000s that unsuccessfully attempted to present itself as a scientific alternative to evolution.\n\nOne of the main sources of confusion and ambiguity in the creation–evolution debate is the definition of \"evolution\" itself. In the context of biology, evolution is genetic changes in populations of organisms over successive generations. The word also has a number of different meanings in different fields, from evolutionary computation to molecular evolution to sociocultural evolution to stellar and galactic evolution. When biological evolution is conflated with other evolutionary processes, this can cause errors such as the claim that modern evolutionary theory says anything about abiogenesis or the Big Bang.\n\n\"Evolution\" in colloquial contexts can refer to any sort of progressive development or gradual improvement, and a process that results in greater quality or complexity. When misapplied to biological evolution this common meaning leads to frequent misunderstandings. For example, the idea of devolution (\"backwards\" evolution) is a result of erroneously assuming that evolution is directional or has a specific goal in mind (cf. orthogenesis). In reality, the evolution of an organism has no \"objective\" and is only showing increasing ability of successive generations to survive and reproduce in its environment; and increased suitability is only defined in relation to this environment. Biologists do not consider any one species, such as humans, to be more \"highly evolved\" or \"advanced\" than another. Certain sources have been criticized for indicating otherwise due to a tendency to evaluate nonhuman organisms according to anthropocentric standards rather than more objective ones.\n\nEvolution also does not require that organisms become more complex. Although the history of life shows an apparent trend towards the evolution of biological complexity; there is a question if this appearance of increased complexity is real, or if it comes from neglecting the fact that the majority of life on Earth has always consisted of prokaryotes. In this view, complexity is not a necessary consequence of evolution, but that specific circumstances of evolution on Earth frequently made greater complexity advantageous and thus naturally selected for. Depending on the situation, organisms' complexity can either increase, decrease, or stay the same, and all three of these trends have been observed in evolution.\n\nCreationist sources frequently define evolution according to a colloquial, rather than scientific, meaning. As a result, many attempts to rebut evolution do not address the findings of evolutionary biology (see straw man argument). This also means that advocates of creationism and evolutionary biologists often simply speak past each other.\n\nCritics of evolution assert that evolution is \"just a theory,\" which emphasizes that scientific theories are never absolute, or misleadingly presents it as a matter of opinion rather than of fact or evidence. This reflects a difference of the meaning of \"theory\" in a scientific context: whereas in colloquial speech a \"theory\" is a conjecture or guess, in science a theory is an explanation whose predictions have been verified by experiments or other evidence. \"Evolutionary theory\" refers to an explanation for the diversity of species and their ancestry which has met extremely high standards of scientific evidence. An example of evolution as theory is the modern synthesis of Darwinian natural selection and Mendelian inheritance. As with any scientific theory, the modern synthesis is constantly debated, tested, and refined by scientists, but there is an overwhelming consensus in the scientific community that it remains the only robust model that accounts for the known facts concerning evolution.\n\nCritics also state that evolution is not a fact. In science a fact is a verified empirical observation while in colloquial contexts a fact can simply refer to anything for which there is overwhelming evidence. For example, in common usage theories such as \"the Earth revolves around the Sun\" and \"objects fall due to gravity\" may be referred to as \"facts,\" even though they are purely theoretical. From a scientific standpoint, therefore, evolution may be called a \"fact\" for the same reason that gravity can: under the scientific definition, evolution is an observable process that occurs whenever a population of organisms genetically changes over time. Under the colloquial definition, the theory of evolution can also be called a fact, referring to this theory's well-established nature. Thus, evolution is widely considered both a theory and a fact by scientists.\n\nSimilar confusion is involved in objections that evolution is \"unproven,\" since no theory in science is known to be absolutely true, only verified by empirical evidence. This distinction is an important one in philosophy of science, as it relates to the lack of absolute certainty in all empirical claims, not just evolution. Strict proof is possible only in formal sciences such as logic and mathematics, not natural sciences (where terms such as \"validated\" or \"corroborated\" are more appropriate). Thus, to say that evolution is not proven is trivially true, but no more an indictment of evolution than calling it a \"theory.\" The confusion arises in that the colloquial meaning of \"proof\" is simply \"compelling evidence,\" in which case scientists would indeed consider evolution \"proven.\"\n\nAn objection is often made in the teaching of evolution that evolution is controversial or contentious. Unlike past creationist arguments which sought to abolish the teaching of evolution altogether, this argument makes the weaker claim that evolution should be presented alongside alternative views since it is controversial, and students should be allowed to evaluate and choose between the options on their own.\n\nThis objection forms the basis of the \"Teach the Controversy\" campaign by the Discovery Institute, a think tank based in Seattle, Washington, to promote the teaching of intelligent design in U.S. public schools. This goal followed the Institute's \"wedge strategy,\" an attempt to gradually undermine evolution and ultimately to \"reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist worldview, and to replace it with a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions.\" Several other attempts were made to insert intelligent design or creationism into the U.S. public school curriculum, including the failed Santorum Amendment in 2001.\n\nScientists and U.S. courts have rejected this objection on the grounds that science is not based on appeals to popularity, but on evidence. The scientific consensus of biologists determines what is considered acceptable science, not popular opinion or fairness, and although evolution is controversial in the public arena, it is entirely uncontroversial among experts in the field.\n\nIn response, creationists have disputed the level of scientific support for evolution. The Discovery Institute has gathered over 761 scientists as of August 2008 to sign \"A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism\" in order to show that there are a number of scientists who dispute what they refer to as \"Darwinian evolution.\" This statement did not profess outright disbelief in evolution, but expressed skepticism as to the ability of \"random mutation and natural selection to account for the complexity of life.\" Several counter-petitions have been launched in turn, including \"A Scientific Support for Darwinism\", which gathered over 7,000 signatures in four days, and Project Steve, a tongue-in-cheek petition that has gathered the signatures of 1,393 (as of May 24, 2016) evolution-supporting scientists named \"Steve\" (or any similar variation thereof—Stephen, Stephanie, Esteban, etc.).\n\nCreationists have argued for over a century that evolution is a \"theory in crisis\" that will soon be overturned, based on objections that it lacks reliable evidence or violates natural laws. These objections have been rejected by most scientists, as have claims that intelligent design, or any other creationist explanation, meets the basic scientific standards that would be required to make them scientific alternatives to evolution. It is also argued that even if evidence against evolution exists, it is a false dilemma to characterize this as evidence \"for\" intelligent design.\n\nA similar objection to evolution is that certain scientific authorities—mainly pre-modern ones—have doubted or rejected evolution. Most commonly, it is argued that Darwin \"recanted\" on his deathbed, a false anecdote originating from Lady Hope's story. These objections are generally rejected as appeals to authority.\n\nA common neo-creationist objection to evolution is that evolution does not adhere to normal scientific standards—that it is not genuinely scientific. It is argued that evolutionary biology does not follow the scientific method and therefore should not be taught in science classes, or at least should be taught alongside other views (i.e., creationism). These objections often deal with the very nature of evolutionary theory, the scientific method, and philosophy of science.\n\nCreationists commonly argue that \"evolution is a religion; it is not a science.\" The purpose of this criticism is to reframe the debate from one between science (evolution) and religion (creationism) to between two religious beliefs—or even to argue that evolution is religious while intelligent design is not. Those that oppose evolution frequently refer to supporters of evolution as \"evolutionists\" or \"Darwinists.\"\n\nThe arguments for evolution being a religion generally amount to arguments by analogy: it is argued that evolution and religion have one or more things in common, and that therefore evolution is a religion. Examples of claims made in such arguments are statements that evolution is based on faith, and that supporters of evolution dogmatically reject alternative suggestions out-of-hand. These claims have become more popular in recent years as the neo-creationist movement has sought to distance itself from religion, thus giving it more reason to make use of a seemingly anti-religious analogy.\n\nSupporters of evolution have argued in response that no scientist's claims are treated as sacrosanct, as shown by the aspects of Darwin's theory that have been rejected or revised by scientists over the years to form first neo-Darwinism and later the modern evolutionary synthesis. The claim that evolution relies on faith is likewise rejected on the grounds that evolution has strong supporting evidence, and therefore does not require faith.\n\nThe argument that evolution is religious has been rejected in general on the grounds that \"religion\" is not defined by how dogmatic or zealous its adherents are, but by its spiritual or supernatural beliefs. Evolutionary supporters point out evolution is neither dogmatic nor based on faith, and they accuse creationists of equivocating between the strict definition of \"religion\" and its colloquial usage to refer to anything that is enthusiastically or dogmatically engaged in. United States courts have also rejected this objection:\n\nAssuming for the purposes of argument, however, that evolution is a religion or religious tenet, the remedy is to stop the teaching of evolution, not establish another religion in opposition to it. Yet it is clearly established in the case law, and perhaps also in common sense, that evolution is not a religion and that teaching evolution does not violate the Establishment Clause, Epperson v. Arkansas, supra, Willoughby v. Stever, No. 15574-75 (D.D.C. May 18, 1973); aff'd. 504 F.2d 271 (D.C. Cir. 1974), cert. denied , 420 U.S. 924 (1975); Wright v. Houston Indep. School Dist., 366 F. Supp. 1208 (S.D. Tex 1978), aff.d. 486 F.2d 137 (5th Cir. 1973), cert. denied 417 U.S. 969 (1974).\n\nA related claim is that evolution is atheistic (see the Atheism section below); creationists sometimes merge the two claims and describe evolution as an \"atheistic religion\" (cf. humanism). This argument against evolution is also frequently generalized into a criticism of all science; it is argued that \"science is an atheistic religion,\" on the grounds that its methodological naturalism is as unproven, and thus as \"faith-based,\" as the supernatural and theistic beliefs of creationism.\n\nA statement is considered falsifiable if there is an observation or a test that could be made that would demonstrate that the statement is false. Statements that are not falsifiable cannot be examined by scientific investigation since they permit no tests that evaluate their accuracy. Creationists such as Henry M. Morris have claimed that any observation can be fitted into the evolutionary framework, so it is impossible to demonstrate that evolution is wrong and therefore evolution is non-scientific.\n\nSupporters of evolution argue that evolution could be falsified by many conceivable lines of evidence, such as the fossil record showing no change over time, confirmation that mutations are prevented from accumulating in a population, or observation of organisms being created supernaturally or spontaneously. J. B. S. Haldane, when asked what hypothetical evidence could disprove evolution, replied \"fossil rabbits in the Precambrian era.\" Numerous other potential ways to falsify evolution have also been proposed. For example, the fact that humans have one fewer pair of chromosomes than the great apes offered a testable hypothesis involving the fusion or splitting of chromosomes from a common ancestor. The fusion hypothesis was confirmed in 2005 by discovery that human chromosome 2 is homologous with a fusion of two chromosomes that remain separate in other primates. Extra, inactive telomeres and centromeres remain on human chromosome 2 as a result of the fusion. The assertion of common descent could also have been disproven with the invention of DNA sequencing methods. If true, human DNA should be far more similar to chimpanzees and other great apes, than to other mammals. If not, then common descent is falsified. DNA analysis has shown that humans and chimpanzees share a large percentage of their DNA (between 95% to 99.4% depending on the measure). Also, the evolution of chimpanzees and humans from a common ancestor predicts a (geologically) recent common ancestor. Numerous transitional fossils have since been found. Hence, human evolution has passed several falsifiable tests.\n\nMany of Darwin's ideas and assertions of fact have been falsified as evolutionary science has developed, but these amendments and falsifications have uniformly confirmed his central concepts. In contrast, creationist explanations involving the direct intervention of the supernatural in the physical world are not falsifiable, because any result of an experiment or investigation could be the unpredictable action of an omnipotent deity.\n\nIn 1976, the philosopher Karl Popper said that \"Darwinism is not a testable scientific theory but a metaphysical research programme.\" He later changed his mind and argued that Darwin's \"theory of natural selection is difficult to test\" with respect to other areas of science.\n\nIn his 1982 book, \"Abusing Science: The Case Against Creationism\", philosopher of science Philip Kitcher specifically addresses the \"falsifiability\" question by taking into account notable philosophical critiques of Popper by Carl Gustav Hempel and Willard Van Orman Quine and provides a definition of theory other than as a set of falsifiable statements. As Kitcher points out, if one took a strictly Popperian view of \"theory,\" observations of Uranus when it was first discovered in 1781 would have \"falsified\" Isaac Newton's celestial mechanics. Rather, people suggested that another planet influenced Uranus' orbit—and this prediction was indeed eventually confirmed. Kitcher agrees with Popper that \"there is surely something right in the idea that a science can succeed only if it can fail.\" But he insists that we view scientific theories as consisting of an \"elaborate collection of statements,\" some of which are not falsifiable, and others—what he calls \"auxiliary hypotheses,\" which are.\n\nA related claim to the supposed unfalsifiability of evolution is that natural selection is tautological. Specifically, it is often argued that the phrase \"survival of the fittest\" is a tautology, in that fitness is defined as ability to survive and reproduce. This phrase was first used by Herbert Spencer in 1864 but is rarely used by biologists. Additionally, fitness is more accurately defined as the state of possessing traits that make survival more likely; this definition, unlike simple \"survivability,\" avoids being trivially true.\n\nSimilarly, it is argued that evolutionary theory is circular reasoning, in that evidence is interpreted as supporting evolution, but evolution is required to interpret the evidence. An example of this is the claim that geological strata are dated through the fossils they hold, but that fossils are in turn dated by the strata they are in. However, in most cases strata are not dated by their fossils, but by their position relative to other strata and by radiometric dating, and most strata were dated before the theory of evolution was formulated.\n\nObjections to the evidence that evolution occurs tend to be more concrete and specific, often involving direct analysis of evolutionary biology's methods and claims.\n\nA common claim of creationists is that evolution has never been observed. Challenges to such objections often come down to debates over how evolution is defined (see the Defining evolution section above). Under the conventional biological definition of \"evolution\", it is a simple matter to observe evolution occurring. Evolutionary processes, in the form of populations changing their genetic composition from generation to generation, have been observed in different scientific contexts, including the evolution of fruit flies, mice, and bacteria in the laboratory, and of tilapia in the field. Such studies on experimental evolution, particularly those using microorganisms, are now providing important insights into how evolution occurs, especially in the case of antibiotic resistance.\n\nIn response to such examples, creationists say there are two major subdivisions of evolution to be considered, microevolution and macroevolution, and it is questionable if macro-evolution has been physically observed to occur. Most creationist organizations do not dispute the occurrence of short-term, relatively minor evolutionary changes, such as that observed even in dog breeding. Rather, they dispute the occurrence of major evolutionary changes over long periods of time, which by definition cannot be directly observed, only inferred from microevolutionary processes and the traces of macroevolutionary ones.\n\nAs biologists define \"macroevolution\", both microevolution and macroevolution have been observed. Speciations, for example, have been directly observed many times. Additionally, the modern evolutionary synthesis draws no distinction in the processes described by the theory of evolution when considering macroevolution and microevolution as the former is simply at the species level or above and the latter is below the species level. An example of this is ring species.\n\nAdditionally, past macroevolution can be inferred from historical traces. Transitional fossils, for example, provide plausible links between several different groups of organisms, such as \"Archaeopteryx\" linking birds and non-avian dinosaurs, or the \"Tiktaalik\" linking fish and limbed amphibians. Creationists dispute such examples, from asserting that such fossils are hoaxes or that they belong exclusively to one group or the other, to asserting that there should be far more evidence of obvious transitional species. Darwin himself found the paucity of transitional species to be one of the greatest weaknesses of his theory: Why then is not every geological formation and every stratum full of such intermediate links? Geology assuredly does not reveal any such finely graduated organic chain and this, perhaps, is the most obvious and gravest objection which can be urged against my theory. The explanation lies, as I believe, in the extreme imperfection of the geological record. Darwin appealed to the limited collections then available, the extreme lengths of time involved, and different rates of change with some living species differing very little from fossils of the Silurian period. In later editions he added \"that the periods during which species have been undergoing modification, though very long as measured by years, have probably been short in comparison with the periods during which these same species remained without undergoing any change.\" The number of clear transitional fossils has increased enormously since Darwin's day, and this problem has been largely resolved with the advent of the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which predicts a primarily stable fossil record broken up by occasional major speciations.\n\nAs more and more compelling direct evidence for inter-species and species-to-species evolution has been gathered, creationists have redefined their understanding of what amounts to \"created kinds,\" and have continued to insist that more dramatic demonstrations of evolution be experimentally produced. One version of this objection is \"Were you there?,\" popularized by young Earth creationist Ken Ham. It argues that because no one except God could directly observe events in the distant past, scientific claims are just speculation or \"story-telling.\" DNA sequences of the genomes of organisms allow an independent test of their predicted relationships, since species which diverged more recently will be more closely related genetically than species which are more distantly related; such phylogenetic trees show a hierarchical organization within the tree of life, as predicted by common descent.\n\nIn fields such as astrophysics or meteorology, where direct observation or laboratory experiments are difficult or impossible, the scientific method instead relies on observation and logical inference. In such fields, the test of falsifiability is satisfied when a theory is used to predict the results of new observations. When such observations contradict a theory's predictions, it may be revised or discarded if an alternative better explains the observed facts. For example, Newton's theory of gravitation was replaced by Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity when the latter was observed to more precisely predict the orbit of Mercury.\n\nA related objection is that evolution is based on unreliable evidence, claiming that evolution is not even well-evidenced. Typically, this is either based on the argument that evolution's evidence is full of frauds and hoaxes, that current evidence for evolution is likely to be overturned as some past evidence has been, or that certain types of evidence are inconsistent and dubious.\n\nArguments against evolution's reliability are thus often based on analyzing the history of evolutionary thought or the history of science in general. Creationists point out that in the past, major scientific revolutions have overturned theories that were at the time considered near-certain. They thus claim that current evolutionary theory is likely to undergo such a revolution in the future, on the basis that it is a \"theory in crisis\" for one reason or another.\n\nCritics of evolution commonly appeal to past scientific hoaxes such as the Piltdown Man forgery. It is argued that because scientists have been mistaken and deceived in the past about evidence for various aspects of evolution, the current evidence for evolution is likely to also be based on fraud and error. Much of the evidence for evolution has been accused of being fraudulent at various times, including \"Archaeopteryx\", peppered moth melanism, and Darwin's finches; these claims have been subsequently refuted.\n\nIt has also been claimed that certain former pieces of evidence for evolution which are now considered out-of-date and erroneous, such as Ernst Haeckel's 19th-century comparative drawings of embryos, used to illustrate his recapitulation theory (\"ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny\"), were not merely errors but frauds. Molecular biologist Jonathan Wells criticizes biology textbooks by alleging that they continue to reproduce such evidence after it has been debunked. In response, the National Center for Science Education notes that none of the textbooks reviewed by Wells makes the claimed error, as Haeckel's drawings are shown in a historical context with discussion about why they are wrong, and the accurate modern drawings and photos used in the textbooks are misrepresented by Wells.\n\nCreationists claim that evolution relies on certain types of evidence that do not give reliable information about the past. For example, it is argued that radiometric dating technique of evaluating a material's age based on the radioactive decay rates of certain isotopes generates inconsistent and thus unreliable results. Radiocarbon dating based on the carbon-14 isotope has been particularly criticized. It is argued that radiometric decay relies on a number of unwarranted assumptions such as the principle of uniformitarianism, consistent decay rates, or rocks acting as closed systems. Such arguments have been dismissed by scientists on the grounds that independent methods have confirmed the reliability of radiometric dating as a whole; additionally, different radiometric dating methods and techniques have independently confirmed each other's results.\n\nAnother form of this objection is that fossil evidence is not reliable. This is based on a much wider range of claims. These include that there are too many \"gaps\" in the fossil record, that fossil-dating is circular (see the Unfalsifiability section above), or that certain fossils, such as polystrate fossils, are seemingly \"out of place.\" Examination by geologists have found polystrate fossils to be consistent with \"in situ\" formation. It is argued that certain features of evolution support creationism's catastrophism (cf. Great Flood), rather than evolution's gradualistic punctuated equilibrium, which some assert is an \"ad hoc\" theory to explain the fossil gaps.\n\nSome of the oldest and most common objections to evolution dispute whether evolution can truly account for all the apparent complexity and order in the natural world. It is argued that evolution is too unlikely or otherwise lacking to account for various aspects of life, and therefore that an intelligence, such as God of the Abrahamic religions, must at the very least be appealed to for those specific features.\n\nA common objection to evolution is that it is simply too unlikely for life, in its complexity and apparent \"design,\" to have arisen \"by chance.\" It is argued that the odds of life having arisen without a deliberate intelligence guiding it are so astronomically low that it is unreasonable \"not\" to infer an intelligent designer from the natural world, and specifically from the diversity of life. A more extreme version of this argument is that evolution cannot create complex structures (see the Creation of complex structures section below). The idea that it is simply too implausible for life to have evolved is often wrongly encapsulated with a quotation that the \"probability of life originating on Earth is no greater than the chance that a hurricane, sweeping through a scrapyard, would have the luck to assemble a Boeing 747\"—a claim attributed to astrophysicist Fred Hoyle and known as Hoyle's fallacy. Hoyle was a Darwinist, atheist and anti-theist, but advocated the theory of panspermia, in which abiogenesis begins in outer space and primitive life on Earth is held to have arrived via natural dispersion.\n\nViews superficially similar, but unrelated to Hoyle's, are thus invariably justified with arguments from analogy. The basic idea of this argument for a designer is the teleological argument, an argument for the existence of God based on the perceived order or purposefulness of the universe. A common way of using this as an objection to evolution is by appealing to the 18th-century philosopher William Paley's watchmaker analogy, which argues that certain natural phenomena are analogical to a watch (in that they are ordered, or complex, or purposeful), which means that, like a watch, they must have been designed by a \"watchmaker\"—an intelligent agent. This argument forms the core of intelligent design, a neo-creationist movement seeking to establish certain variants of the design argument as legitimate science, rather than as philosophy or theology, and have them be taught alongside evolution.\n\nThis objection is fundamentally an argument by lack of imagination, or argument from incredulity: a certain explanation is seen as being counterintuitive, and therefore an alternate, more intuitive explanation is appealed to instead. Supporters of evolution generally respond by arguing that evolution is not based on \"chance,\" but on predictable chemical interactions: natural processes, rather than supernatural beings, are the \"designer.\" Although the process involves some random elements, it is the non-random selection of survival-enhancing genes that drives evolution along an ordered trajectory. The fact that the results are ordered and seem \"designed\" is no more evidence for a supernatural intelligence than the appearance of complex natural phenomena (e.g. snowflakes). It is also argued that there is insufficient evidence to make statements about the plausibility or implausibility of abiogenesis, that certain structures demonstrate poor design, and that the implausibility of life evolving exactly as it did is no more evidence for an intelligence than the implausibility of a deck of cards being shuffled and dealt in a certain random order.\n\nIt has also been noted that arguments against some form of life arising \"by chance\" are really objections to nontheistic abiogenesis, not to evolution. Indeed, arguments against \"evolution\" are based on the misconception that abiogenesis is a component of, or necessary precursor to, evolution. Similar objections sometimes conflate the Big Bang with evolution.\n\nChristian apologist and philosopher Alvin Plantinga, a supporter of intelligent design, has formalized and revised the improbability argument as the evolutionary argument against naturalism, which asserts that it is irrational to reject a supernatural, intelligent creator because the apparent probability of certain faculties evolving is so low. Specifically, Plantinga claims that evolution cannot account for the rise of reliable reasoning faculties. Plantinga argues that whereas a God would be expected to create beings with reliable reasoning faculties, evolution would be just as likely to lead to unreliable ones, meaning that if evolution is true, it is irrational to trust whatever reasoning one relies on to conclude that it is true. This novel epistemological argument has been criticized similarly to other probabilistic design arguments. It has also been argued that rationality, if conducive to survival, is more likely to be selected for than irrationality, making the natural development of reliable cognitive faculties more likely than unreliable ones.\n\nA related argument against evolution is that most mutations are harmful. However, the vast majority of mutations are neutral, and the minority of mutations which are beneficial or harmful are often situational; a mutation that is harmful in one environment may be helpful in another.\n\nIn addition to complex structures and systems, among the phenomena that critics variously claim evolution cannot explain are consciousness, hominid intelligence, instincts, emotions, metamorphosis, photosynthesis, homosexuality, music, language, religion, morality, and altruism (see altruism in animals). Most of these, such as hominid intelligence, instinct, emotion, photosynthesis, language, and altruism, have been well-explained by evolution, while others remain mysterious, or only have preliminary explanations. Supporters of evolution further contend that no alternative explanation has been able to adequately explain the biological origin of these phenomena either.\n\nCreationists argue against evolution on the grounds that it cannot explain certain non-evolutionary processes, such as abiogenesis, the Big Bang, or the meaning of life. In such instances, \"evolution\" is being redefined to refer to the entire history of the universe, and it is argued that if one aspect of the universe is seemingly inexplicable, the entire body of scientific theories must be baseless. At this point, objections leave the arena of evolutionary biology and become general scientific or philosophical disputes.\n\nAstronomers Fred Hoyle and Chandra Wickramasinghe have argued in favor of cosmic ancestry, and against abiogenesis and evolution.\n\nThis class of objections is more radical than the above, claiming that a major aspect of evolution is not merely unscientific or implausible, but rather impossible, because it contradicts some other law of nature or is constrained in such a way that it cannot produce the biological diversity of the world.\n\nModern evolutionary theory posits that all biological systems must have evolved incrementally, through a combination of natural selection and genetic drift. Both Darwin and his early detractors recognized the potential problems that could arise for his theory of natural selection if the lineage of organs and other biological features could not be accounted for by gradual, step-by-step changes over successive generations; if all the intermediary stages between an initial organ and the organ it will become are not all improvements upon the original, it will be impossible for the later organ to develop by the process of natural selection alone. Complex organs such as the eye had been presented by William Paley as exemplifying the need for design by God, and anticipating early criticisms that the evolution of the eye and other complex organs seemed impossible, Darwin noted that:\n\n[R]eason tells me, that if numerous gradations from a perfect and complex eye to one very imperfect and simple, each grade being useful to its possessor, can be shown to exist; if further, the eye does vary ever so slightly, and the variations be inherited, which is certainly the case; and if any variation or modification in the organ be ever useful to an animal under changing conditions of life, then the difficulty of believing that a perfect and complex eye could be formed by natural selection, though insuperable by our imagination, can hardly be considered real.\n\nSimilarly, ethologist and evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins said on the topic of the evolution of the feather in an interview for the television program \"The Atheism Tapes\":\nThere's got to be a series of advantages all the way in the feather. If you can't think of one, then that's your problem not natural selection's problem... It's perfectly possible feathers began as fluffy extensions of reptilian scales to act as insulators... The earliest feathers might have been a different approach to hairiness among reptiles keeping warm.\nCreationist arguments have been made such as \"What use is half an eye?\" and \"What use is half a wing?\". Research has confirmed that the natural evolution of the eye and other intricate organs is entirely feasible. Creationist claims have persisted that such complexity evolving without a designer is inconceivable and this objection to evolution has been refined in recent years as the more sophisticated irreducible complexity argument of the intelligent design movement, formulated by Michael Behe. Biochemist Michael Behe has argued that current evolutionary theory cannot account for certain complex structures, particularly in microbiology. On this basis, Behe argues that such structures were \"purposely arranged by an intelligent agent.\"\n\nIrreducible complexity is the idea that certain biological systems cannot be broken down into their constituent parts and remain functional, and therefore that they could not have evolved naturally from less complex or complete systems. Whereas past arguments of this nature generally relied on macroscopic organs, Behe's primary examples of irreducible complexity have been cellular and biochemical in nature. He has argued that the components of systems such as the blood clotting cascade, the immune system, and the bacterial flagellum are so complex and interdependent that they could not have evolved from simpler systems.\n\nIn the years since Behe proposed irreducible complexity, new developments and advances in biology such as an improved understanding of the evolution of flagella, have already undermined these arguments The idea that seemingly irreducibly complex systems cannot evolve has been refuted through evolutionary mechanisms, such as exaptation (the adaptation of organs for entirely new functions) and the use of \"scaffolding,\" which are initially necessary features of a system that later degenerate when they are no longer required. Potential evolutionary pathways have been provided for all of the systems Behe used as examples of irreducible complexity.\n\nThe Cambrian explosion was the relatively rapid appearance around of most major animal phyla as demonstrated in the fossil record, and many more phyla now extinct. This was accompanied by major diversification of other organisms. Prior to the Cambrian explosion most organisms were simple, composed of individual cells occasionally organized into colonies. Over the following 70 or 80 million years the rate of diversification accelerated by an order of magnitude and the diversity of life began to resemble that of today, although they did not resemble the species of today.\n\nThe basic problem with this is that natural selection calls for the slow accumulation of changes, where a new phyla would take longer than a new class which would take longer than a new order, which would take longer than a new family, which would take longer than a new genus would take longer than emergence of a new species but the apparent occurrence of high-level taxa without precedents is perhaps implying unusual evolutionary mechanisms.\n\nThere is general consensus that many factors helped trigger the Cambrian explosion, but there is no generally accepted consensus about the combination and the Cambrian explosion continues to be an area of controversy and research over why so rapid, why at the phylum level, why so many phyla then and none since, and even if the apparent fossil record is accurate.\n\nAn example of opinions involving the commonly cited rise in oxygen Great Oxidation Event from biologist PZ Myers summarizes: \"What it was was environmental changes, in particular the bioturbation revolution caused by the evolution of worms that released buried nutrients, and the steadily increasing oxygen content of the atmosphere that allowed those nutrients to fuel growth; ecological competition, or a kind of arms race, that gave a distinct selective advantage to novelties that allowed species to occupy new niches; and the evolution of developmental mechanisms that enabled multicellular organisms to generate new morphotypes readily.\" The increase in molecular oxygen (O) also may have allowed the formation of the protective ozone layer (O) that helps shield Earth from lethal UV radiation from the Sun.\n\nA recent objection of creationists to evolution is that evolutionary mechanisms such as mutation cannot generate new information. Creationists such as William A. Dembski, Werner Gitt, and Lee Spetner have attempted to use information theory to dispute evolution. Dembski has argued that life demonstrates specified complexity, and proposed a law of conservation of information that extremely improbable \"complex specified information\" could be conveyed by natural means but never originated without an intelligent agent. Gitt asserted that information is an intrinsic characteristic of life and that an analysis demonstrates the mind and will of their Creator.\n\nThese claims have been widely rejected by the scientific community which asserts that new information is regularly generated in evolution whenever a novel mutation or gene duplication arises. Dramatic examples of entirely new and unique traits arising through mutation have been observed in recent years, such as the evolution of nylon-eating bacteria which developed new enzymes to efficiently digest a material that never existed before the modern era. There is no need to account for the creation of information when an organism is considered together with the environment it evolved in. The information in the genome forms a record of how it was possible to survive in a particular environment. The information is gathered from the environment through trial and error as mutating organisms either reproduce or fail.\n\nAnother objection is that evolution violates the second law of thermodynamics. The law states that \"the entropy of an isolated system not in equilibrium will tend to increase over time, approaching a maximum value at equilibrium\". In other words, an isolated system's entropy (a measure of the dispersal of energy in a physical system so that it is not available to do mechanical work) will tend to increase or stay the same, not decrease. Creationists argue that evolution violates this physical law by requiring a decrease in entropy, or disorder, over time.\n\nThe claims have been criticized for ignoring that the second law only applies to isolated systems. Organisms are open systems as they constantly exchange energy and matter with their environment: for example animals eat food and excrete waste, and radiate and absorb heat. It is argued that the Sun-Earth-space system does not violate the second law because the enormous increase in entropy due to the Sun and Earth radiating into space dwarfs the local decrease in entropy caused by the existence and evolution of self-organizing life.\n\nSince the second law of thermodynamics has a precise mathematical definition, this argument can be analyzed quantitatively. This was done by physicist Daniel F. Styer, who concluded: \"Quantitative estimates of the entropy involved in biological evolution demonstrate that there is no conflict between evolution and the second law of thermodynamics.\"\n\nIn a published letter to the editor of \"The Mathematical Intelligencer\" titled \"How anti-evolutionists abuse mathematics,\" mathematician Jason Rosenhouse stated:\nThe fact is that natural forces routinely lead to local decreases in entropy. Water freezes into ice and fertilised eggs turn into babies. Plants use sunlight to convert carbon dioxide and water into sugar and oxygen, but [we do] not invoke divine intervention to explain the process [...] thermodynamics offers nothing to dampen our confidence in Darwinism.\n\nOther common objections to evolution allege that evolution leads to objectionable results, including bad beliefs, behaviors, and events. It is argued that the teaching of evolution degrades values, undermines morals, and fosters irreligion or atheism. These may be considered appeals to consequences (a form of logical fallacy), as the potential ramifications of belief in evolutionary theory have nothing to do with its objective empirical reality.\n\nIn biological classification humans are animals, a basic point which has been known for more than 2,000 years. Aristotle already described man as a political animal and Porphyry defined man as a rational animal, a definition accepted by the Scholastic philosophers in the Middle Ages. The creationist J. Rendle-Short asserted in \"Creation\" magazine that if people are taught evolution they can be expected to behave like animals: since animals behave in all sorts of different ways, this is meaningless. In evolutionary terms, humans are able to acquire knowledge and change their behaviour to meet social standards, so humans behave in the manner of other humans.\n\nIn 1917, Vernon Kellogg published \"Headquarters Nights: A Record of Conversations and Experiences at the Headquarters of the German Army in France and Belgium\", which asserted that German intellectuals were totally committed to might-makes-right due to \"whole-hearted acceptance of the worst of Neo-Darwinism, the \"Allmacht\" of natural selection applied rigorously to human life and society and \"Kultur\".\" This strongly influenced the politician William Jennings Bryan, who saw Darwinism as a moral threat to America and campaigned against evolutionary theory; his campaign culminated in the Scopes Trial, which effectively prevented teaching of evolution in most public schools until the 1960s.\n\nR. Albert Mohler, Jr., president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, wrote August 8, 2005, in NPR's \"Taking Issue\" essay series, that \"Debates over education, abortion, environmentalism, homosexuality and a host of other issues are really debates about the origin — and thus the meaning — of human life. ...evolutionary theory stands at the base of moral relativism and the rejection of traditional morality.\"\n\nHenry M. Morris, engineering professor and founder of the Creation Research Society and the Institute of Creation Research, claims that evolution was part of a pagan religion that emerged after the Tower of Babel, was part of Plato's and Aristotle's philosophies, and was responsible for everything from war to pornography to the breakup of the nuclear family. He has also claimed that perceived social ills like crime, teenage pregnancies, homosexuality, abortion, immorality, wars, and genocide are caused by a belief in evolution.\n\nRev. D. James Kennedy of The Center for Reclaiming America for Christ and Coral Ridge Ministries claims that Darwin was responsible for Adolf Hitler's atrocities. In Kennedy's documentary and the accompanying pamphlet with the same title, \"Darwin's Deadly Legacy\", Kennedy states that \"To put it simply, no Darwin, no Hitler.\" In his efforts to expose the \"harmful effects that evolution is still having on our nation, our children, and our world,\" Kennedy also states that, \"We have had 150 years of the theory of Darwinian evolution, and what has it brought us? Whether Darwin intended it or not, millions of deaths, the destruction of those deemed inferior, the devaluing of human life, increasing hopelessness.\" The Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture fellow Richard Weikart has made similar claims, as have other creationists. The claim was central to the documentary film \"\" (2008) promoting intelligent design creationism. The Anti-Defamation League describes such claims as outrageous misuse of the Holocaust and its imagery, and as trivializing the \"...many complex factors that led to the mass extermination of European Jewry. Hitler did not need Darwin or evolution to devise his heinous plan to exterminate the Jewish people, and Darwin and evolutionary theory cannot explain Hitler's genocidal madness. Moreover, anti-Semitism existed long before Darwin ever wrote a word.\"\n\nYoung Earth creationist Kent Hovind blames communism, socialism, World War I, World War II, racism, the Holocaust, Stalin's war crimes, the Vietnam War, and Pol Pot's Killing Fields on evolution, as well as the increase in crime, unwed mothers, and other social ills. Hovind's son Eric Hovind claims that evolution is responsible for tattoos, body piercing, premarital sex, unwed births, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), divorce, and child abuse.\n\nSupporters of evolution dismiss such criticisms as counterfactual, and some argue that the opposite seems to be the case. A study published by the author and illustrator Gregory S. Paul found that religious beliefs, including belief in creationism and disbelief in evolution, are positively correlated with social ills like crime. The Barna Group surveys find that Christians and non-Christians in the U.S. have similar divorce rates, and the highest divorce rates in the U.S. are among Baptists and Pentecostals, both sects which reject evolution and embrace creationism.\n\nMichael Shermer argued in \"Scientific American\" in October 2006 that evolution supports concepts like family values, avoiding lies, fidelity, moral codes and the rule of law. He goes on to suggest that evolution gives more support to the notion of an omnipotent creator, rather than a tinkerer with limitations based on a human model, the more common image subscribed to by creationists. Careful analysis of the creationist charges that evolution has led to moral relativism and the Holocaust yields the conclusion that these charges appear to be highly suspect. Such analyses conclude that the origins of the Holocaust are more likely to be found in historical Christian anti-Semitism than in evolution.\n\nEvolution has been used to justify Social Darwinism, the exploitation of so-called \"lesser breeds without the law\" by \"superior races,\" particularly in the nineteenth century. Typically strong European nations that had successfully expanded their empires could be said to have \"survived\" in the struggle for dominance. With this attitude, Europeans except for Christian missionaries rarely adopted any customs and languages of local people under their empires.\n\nAnother charge leveled at evolutionary theory by creationists is that belief in evolution is either tantamount to atheism, or conducive to atheism. It is commonly claimed that all proponents of evolutionary theory are \"materialistic atheists.\" On the other hand, Davis A. Young argues that creation science \"itself\" is harmful to Christianity because its bad science will turn more away than it recruits. Young asks, \"Can we seriously expect non-Christians to develop a respect for Christianity if we insist on teaching the brand of science that creationism brings with it?\" However, evolution neither requires nor rules out the existence of a supernatural being. Philosopher Robert T. Pennock makes the comparison that evolution is no more atheistic than plumbing. H. Allen Orr, professor of biology at University of Rochester, notes that:\n\nIn addition, a wide range of religions have reconciled a belief in a supernatural being with evolution. Molleen Matsumura of the National Center for Science Education found that \"of Americans in the twelve largest Christian denominations, 89.6% belong to churches that support evolution education.\" These churches include the \"United Methodist Church, National Baptist Convention USA, Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, Presbyterian Church (USA), National Baptist Convention of America, African Methodist Episcopal Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Episcopal Church, and others.\" A poll in 2000 done for People for the American Way found that 70% of the American public felt that evolution was compatible with a belief in God. Only 48% of the people polled could choose the correct definition of evolution from a list, however.\n\nOne poll reported in the journal \"Nature\" showed that among American scientists (across various disciplines), about 40 percent believe in both evolution and an active deity (theistic evolution). This is similar to the results reported for surveys of the general American public. Also, about 40 percent of the scientists polled believe in a God that answers prayers, and believe in immortality. While about 55% of scientists surveyed were atheists, agnostics, or nonreligious theists, atheism is far from universal among scientists who support evolution, or among the general public that supports evolution. Very similar results were reported from a 1997 Gallup Poll of the American public and scientists.\n\nTraditionalists still object to the idea that diversity in life, including human beings, arose through natural processes without a need for supernatural intervention, and they argue against evolution on the basis that it contradicts their literal interpretation of creation myths about separate \"created kinds.\" However, many religions, such as Catholicism, have reconciled their beliefs with evolution through theistic evolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "78881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78881", "title": "Pan (god)", "text": "Pan (god)\n\nIn ancient Greek religion and mythology, Pan (; , \"Pan\") is the god of the wild, shepherds and flocks, nature of mountain wilds, rustic music and impromptus, and companion of the nymphs. He has the hindquarters, legs, and horns of a goat, in the same manner as a faun or satyr. With his homeland in rustic Arcadia, he is also recognized as the god of fields, groves, wooded glens and often affiliated with sex; because of this, Pan is connected to fertility and the season of spring. The ancient Greeks also considered Pan to be the god of theatrical criticism. The word \"panic\" ultimately derives from the god's name.\n\nIn Roman religion and myth, Pan's counterpart was Faunus, a nature god who was the father of Bona Dea, sometimes identified as Fauna; he was also closely associated with Sylvanus, due to their similar relationships with woodlands. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Pan became a significant figure in the Romantic movement of western Europe and also in the 20th-century Neopagan movement.\n\nMany modern scholars consider Pan to be derived from the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European god \"*Péhusōn\", whom these scholars believe to have been an important pastoral deity (\"*Péhusōn\" shares an origin with the modern English word \"pasture\"). The Rigvedic god Pushan is believed to be a cognate of Pan. The connection between Pan and Pushan was first identified in 1924 by the German scholar Hermann Collitz. According to Edwin L. Brown, the name \"Pan\" is probably a cognate with the Greek word ὀπάων \"companion\".\n\nIn his earliest appearance in literature, Pindar's Pythian Ode iii. 78, Pan is associated with a mother goddess, perhaps Rhea or Cybele; Pindar refers to maidens worshipping Cybele and Pan near the poet's house in Boeotia.\n\nThe worship of Pan began in Arcadia which was always the principal seat of his worship. Arcadia was a district of mountain people, culturally separated from other Greeks. Arcadian hunters used to scourge the statue of the god if they had been disappointed in the chase.\n\nBeing a rustic god, Pan was not worshipped in temples or other built edifices, but in natural settings, usually caves or grottoes such as the one on the north slope of the Acropolis of Athens. These are often referred to as the Cave of Pan. The only exceptions are the Temple of Pan on the Neda River gorge in the southwestern Peloponnese – the ruins of which survive to this day – and the Temple of Pan at Apollonopolis Magna in ancient Egypt. In the 4th century BCE Pan was depicted on the coinage of Pantikapaion.\n\nThe parentage of Pan is unclear; generally he is the son of Hermes, although occasionally in some myths he is the son of Zeus, or Dionysus, with whom his mother is said to be a wood nymph, sometimes Dryope or, even in the 5th-century AD source \"Dionysiaca\" by Nonnus (14.92), Penelope of Mantineia in Arcadia. In some early sources such as Pindar, his father is Apollo via Penelope, the wife of Odysseus. Herodotus (2.145), Cicero (\"ND\" 3.22.56), Apollodorus (7.38) and Hyginus (\"Fabulae\" 224) all make Hermes and Penelope his parents. Pausanias 8.12.5 records the story that Penelope had in fact been unfaithful to her husband, who banished her to Mantineia upon his return. Other sources (Duris of Samos; the Vergilian commentator Servius) report that Penelope slept with all 108 suitors in Odysseus' absence, and gave birth to Pan as a result. According to Robert Graves, his mother was called Oeneis, a nymph who consorted with Hermes.\n\nThis myth reflects the folk etymology that equates Pan's name (Πάν) with the Greek word for \"all\" (πᾶν).\n\nIn the mystery cults of the highly syncretic Hellenistic era, Pan is made cognate with Phanes/Protogonos, Zeus, Dionysus and Eros.\n\nAccounts of Pan's genealogy are so varied that it must lie buried deep in mythic time. Like other nature spirits, Pan appears to be older than the Olympians, if it is true that he gave Artemis her hunting dogs and taught the secret of prophecy to Apollo. Pan might be multiplied as the Pans (Burkert 1985, III.3.2; Ruck and Staples, 1994, p. 132) or the \"Paniskoi\". Kerenyi (p. 174) notes from scholia that Aeschylus in \"Rhesus\" distinguished between two Pans, one the son of Zeus and twin of Arcas, and one a son of Cronus. \"In the retinue of Dionysos, or in depictions of wild landscapes, there appeared not only a great Pan, but also little Pans, Paniskoi, who played the same part as the Satyrs\".\n\nThe goat-god Aegipan was nurtured by Amalthea with the infant Zeus in Crete. In Zeus' battle with Typhon, Aegipan and Hermes stole back Zeus' \"sinews\" that Typhon had hidden away in the Corycian Cave. Pan aided his foster-brother in the battle with the Titans by letting out a horrible screech and scattering them in terror. According to some traditions, Aegipan was the son of Pan, rather than his father.\n\nOne of the famous myths of Pan involves the origin of his pan flute, fashioned from lengths of hollow reed. Syrinx was a lovely wood-nymph of Arcadia, daughter of Landon, the river-god. As she was returning from the hunt one day, Pan met her. To escape from his importunities, the fair nymph ran away and didn't stop to hear his compliments. He pursued from Mount Lycaeum until she came to her sisters who immediately changed her into a reed. When the air blew through the reeds, it produced a plaintive melody. The god, still infatuated, took some of the reeds, because he could not identify which reed she became, and cut seven pieces (or according to some versions, nine), joined them side by side in gradually decreasing lengths, and formed the musical instrument bearing the name of his beloved Syrinx. Henceforth Pan was seldom seen without it.\n\nEcho was a nymph who was a great singer and dancer and scorned the love of any man. This angered Pan, a lecherous god, and he instructed his followers to kill her. Echo was torn to pieces and spread all over earth. The goddess of the earth, Gaia, received the pieces of Echo, whose voice remains repeating the last words of others. In some versions, Echo and Pan had two children: Iambe and Iynx. In other versions, Pan had fallen in love with Echo, but she scorned the love of any man but was enraptured by Narcissus. As Echo was cursed by Hera to only be able to repeat words that had been said by someone else, she could not speak for herself. She followed Narcissus to a pool, where he fell in love with his own reflection and changed into a narcissus flower. Echo wasted away, but her voice could still be heard in caves and other such similar places.\n\nPan also loved a nymph named Pitys, who was turned into a pine tree to escape him.\n\nDisturbed in his secluded afternoon naps, Pan's angry shout inspired panic (\"panikon deima\") in lonely places. Following the Titans' assault on Olympus, Pan claimed credit for the victory of the gods because he had frightened the attackers. In the Battle of Marathon (490 BCE), it is said that Pan favored the Athenians and so inspired panic in the hearts of their enemies, the Persians.\n\nPan is famous for his sexual powers, and is often depicted with a phallus. Diogenes of Sinope, speaking in jest, related a myth of Pan learning masturbation from his father, Hermes, and teaching the habit to shepherds.\n\nPan's greatest conquest was that of the moon goddess Selene. He accomplished this by wrapping himself in a sheepskin to hide his hairy black goat form, and drew her down from the sky into the forest where he seduced her.\n\nIn two late Roman sources, Hyginus and Ovid, Pan is substituted for the satyr Marsyas in the theme of a musical competition (\"agon\"), and the punishment by flaying is omitted.\n\nPan once had the audacity to compare his music with that of Apollo, and to challenge Apollo, the god of the lyre, to a trial of skill. Tmolus, the mountain-god, was chosen to umpire. Pan blew on his pipes and gave great satisfaction with his rustic melody to himself and to his faithful follower, Midas, who happened to be present. Then Apollo struck the strings of his lyre. Tmolus at once awarded the victory to Apollo, and all but Midas agreed with the judgment. Midas dissented and questioned the justice of the award. Apollo would not suffer such a depraved pair of ears any longer and turned Midas' ears into those of a donkey.\n\nIn another version of the myth, the first round of the contest was a tie, so the competitors were forced to hold a second round. In this round, Apollo demanded that they play their instruments upside-down. Apollo, playing the lyre, was unaffected. However, Pan's pipe could not be played while upside down, so Apollo won the contest.\n\nThe constellation Capricornus is traditionally depicted as a sea-goat, a goat with a fish's tail (see \"Goatlike\" Aigaion called Briareos, one of the Hecatonchires). A myth reported as \"Egyptian\" in Hyginus' \"Poetic Astronomy\" that would seem to be invented to justify a connection of Pan with Capricorn says that when Aegipan – that is Pan in his goat-god aspect — was attacked by the monster Typhon, he dove into the Nile; the parts above the water remained a goat, but those under the water transformed into a fish.\n\nAegocerus \"goat-horned\" was an epithet of Pan descriptive of his figure with the horns of a goat.\n\nPan could be multiplied into a swarm of Pans, and even be given individual names, as in Nonnus' \"Dionysiaca\", where the god Pan had twelve sons that helped Dionysus in his war against the Indians. Their names were Kelaineus, Argennon, Aigikoros, Eugeneios, Omester, Daphoenus, Phobos, Philamnos, Xanthos, Glaukos, Argos, and Phorbas.\n\nTwo other Pans were Agreus and Nomios. Both were the sons of Hermes, Agreus' mother being the nymph Sose, a prophetess: he inherited his mother's gift of prophecy, and was also a skilled hunter. Nomios' mother was Penelope (not the same as the wife of Odysseus). He was an excellent shepherd, seducer of nymphs, and musician upon the shepherd's pipes. Most of the mythological stories about Pan are actually about Nomios, not the god Pan. Although, Agreus and Nomios could have been two different aspects of the prime Pan, reflecting his dual nature as both a wise prophet and a lustful beast.\n\nAegipan, literally \"goat-Pan,\" was a Pan who was fully goatlike, rather than half-goat and half-man. When the Olympians fled from the monstrous giant Typhoeus and hid themselves in animal form, Aegipan assumed the form of a fish-tailed goat. Later he came to the aid of Zeus in his battle with Typhoeus, by stealing back Zeus' stolen sinews. As a reward the king of the gods placed him amongst the stars as the Constellation Capricorn. The mother of Aegipan, Aix (the goat), was perhaps associated with the constellation Capra.\n\nSybarios was an Italian Pan who was worshipped in the Greek colony of Sybaris in Italy. The Sybarite Pan was conceived when a Sybarite shepherd boy named Krathis copulated with a pretty she-goat amongst his herds.\n\nAccording to the Greek historian Plutarch (in \"De defectu oraculorum\", \"The Obsolescence of Oracles\"), Pan is the only Greek god (other than Asclepius) who actually dies. During the reign of Tiberius (14–37 CE), the news of Pan's death came to one Thamus, a sailor on his way to Italy by way of the island of Paxi. A divine voice hailed him across the salt water, \"Thamus, are you there? When you reach Palodes, take care to proclaim that the great god Pan is dead.\" Which Thamus did, and the news was greeted from shore with groans and laments.\n\nChristian apologists such as G. K. Chesterton have repeated and amplified the significance of the \"death\" of Pan, suggesting that with the \"death\" of Pan came the advent of theology. To this effect, Chesterton once said, \"It is said truly in a sense that Pan died because Christ was born. It is almost as true in another sense that men knew that Christ was born because Pan was already dead. A void was made by the vanishing world of the whole mythology of mankind, which would have asphyxiated like a vacuum if it had not been filled with theology.\" It was interpreted with concurrent meanings in all four modes of medieval \"exegesis\": literally as historical fact, and allegorically as the death of the ancient order at the coming of the new. Eusebius of Caesarea in his \"Praeparatio Evangelica\" (book V) seems to have been the first Christian apologist to give Plutarch's anecdote, which he identifies as his source , pseudo-historical standing, which Eusebius buttressed with many invented passing details that lent verisimilitude. \n\nIn more modern times, some have suggested a possible a naturalistic explanation for the myth. For example, Robert Graves (\"The Greek Myths\") reported a suggestion that had been made by Salomon Reinach and expanded by James S. Van Teslaar that the sailors actually heard the excited shouts of the worshipers of Tammuz, \"Thamus Panmegas tethneke\", \"All-great Tammuz is dead!\", and misinterpreted them as a message directed to an Egyptian sailor named 'Thamus': \"Great Pan is Dead!\" Van Teslaar explains, \"[i]n its true form the phrase would have probably carried no meaning to those on board who must have been unfamiliar with the worship of Tammuz which was a transplanted, and for those parts, therefore, an exotic custom.\" Certainly, when Pausanias toured Greece about a century after Plutarch, he found Pan's shrines, sacred caves and sacred mountains still very much frequented. However, a naturalistic explanation might not be needed. For example, William Hansen has shown that the story is quite similar to a class of widely known tales known as \"Fairies Send a Message.\"\n\nThe cry \"Great Pan is dead\" has appealed to poets, such as John Milton, in his ecstatic celebration of Christian peace, \"On the Morning of Christ's Nativity\" line 89, and Elizabeth Barrett Browning.\n\nOne remarkable commentary of Herodotus on Pan is that he lived 800 years before himself (c. 1200 BCE), this being already after the Trojan War.\n\nIn the late 18th century, interest in Pan revived among liberal scholars. Richard Payne Knight discussed Pan in his \"Discourse on the Worship of Priapus\" (1786) as a symbol of creation expressed through sexuality. \"Pan is represented pouring water upon the organ of generation; that is, invigorating the active creative power by the prolific element.\"\n\nIn the English town of Painswick in Gloucestershire, a group of 18th-century gentry, led by Benjamin Hyett, organised an annual procession dedicated to Pan, during which a statue of the deity was held aloft, and people shouted 'Highgates! Highgates!\" Hyett also erected temples and follies to Pan in the gardens of his house and a \"Pan's lodge\", located over Painswick Valley. The tradition died out in the 1830s, but was revived in 1885 by the new vicar, W. H. Seddon, who mistakenly believed that the festival had been ancient in origin. One of Seddon's successors, however, was less appreciative of the pagan festival and put an end to it in 1950, when he had Pan's statue buried.\n\nJohn Keats's \"Endymion\" opens with a festival dedicated to Pan where a stanzaic hymn is sung in praise of him. \"Keats's account of Pan's activities is largely drawn from the Elizabethan poets. Douglas Bush notes, 'The goat-god, the tutelary divinity of shepherds, had long been allegorized on various levels, from Christ to \"Universall Nature\" (Sandys); here he becomes the symbol of the romantic imagination, of supra-mortal knowledge.\n\nIn the late 19th century Pan became an increasingly common figure in literature and art. Patricia Merivale states that between 1890 and 1926 there was an \"astonishing resurgence of interest in the Pan motif\". He appears in poetry, in novels and children's books, and is referenced in the name of the character Peter Pan. In the Peter Pan stories, Peter represents a golden age of pre-civilisation in both the minds of very young children, before enculturation and education, and in the natural world outside the influence of humans. Peter Pan's character is both charming and selfish emphasizing our cultural confusion about whether human instincts are natural and good, or uncivilised and bad. J. M. Barrie describes Peter as ‘a betwixt and between’, part animal and part human, and uses this device to explore many issues of human and animal psychology within the Peter Pan stories.\n\nHe is the eponymous \"Piper at the Gates of Dawn\" in the seventh chapter of Kenneth Grahame's \"The Wind in the Willows\" (1908). Grahame's Pan, unnamed but clearly recognisable, is a powerful but secretive nature-god, protector of animals, who casts a spell of forgetfulness on all those he helps. He makes a brief appearance to help the Rat and Mole recover the Otter's lost son Portly.\n\nArthur Machen's 1894 novella \"The Great God Pan\" uses the god's name in a simile about the whole world being revealed as it really is: \"seeing the Great God Pan\". The novella is considered by many (including Stephen King) as being one of the greatest horror stories ever written.\n\nPan entices villagers to listen to his pipes as if in a trance in Lord Dunsany's novel \"The Blessing of Pan\" published in 1927. Although the god does not appear within the story, his energy certainly invokes the younger folk of the village to revel in the summer twilight, and the vicar of the village is the only person worried about the revival of worship for the old pagan god.\n\nPan is also featured as a prominent character in Tom Robbins' \"Jitterbug Perfume\" (1984). Aeronautical engineer and occultist Jack Parsons invoked Pan before test launches at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\n\nThe British writer and editor Mark Beech of Egaeus Press published in 2015 the limited-edition anthology \"Soliloquy for Pan\" which includes essays and poems such as \"The Rebirthing of Pan\" by Adrian Eckersley, \"Pan's Pipes\" by Robert Louis Stevenson, \"Pan with Us\" by Robert Frost, and \"The Death of Pan\" by Lord Dunsany. Some of the detailed illustrated depictions of Pan included in the volume are by the artists Giorgio Ghisi, Sir James Thornhill, Bernard Picart, Agostino Veneziano, Vincenzo Cartari, and Giovanni Battista Tiepolo.\n\nPan's goatish image recalls conventional faun-like depictions of Satan. Although Christian use of Plutarch's story is of long standing, Hutton (1999) has argued that this specific association is modern and derives from Pan's popularity in Victorian and Edwardian neopaganism. Medieval and early modern images of Satan tend, by contrast, to show generic semi-human monsters with horns, wings, and clawed feet.\n\nIn 1933, the Egyptologist Margaret Murray published the book, \"The God of the Witches\", in which she theorised that Pan was merely one form of a horned god who was worshipped across Europe by a witch-cult. This theory influenced the Neopagan notion of the Horned God, as an archetype of male virility and sexuality. In Wicca, the archetype of the Horned God is highly important, as represented by such deities as the Celtic Cernunnos, Hindu Pashupati, and Greek Pan.\n\nA modern account of several purported meetings with Pan is given by Robert Ogilvie Crombie in \"The Findhorn Garden\" (Harper & Row, 1975) and \"The Magic of Findhorn\" (Harper & Row, 1975). Crombie claimed to have met Pan many times at various locations in Scotland, including Edinburgh, on the island of Iona and at the Findhorn Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32771490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32771490", "title": "Protanguilla", "text": "Protanguilla\n\nProtanguilla palau is a species of eel, the only species in the genus Protanguilla (first eel), which is in turn the only genus in its family, Protanguillidae. Individuals were found swimming in March 2010 in a deep underwater cave in a fringing reef off the coast of Palau.\n\nThe body is very small and slender, about 18 cm long. The eel has a second premaxilla and under 90 vertebrae, features previously found only in fossilised eels. Its full set of gill rakers in its branchial arches has never previously been found in an eel, but is common in bony fish. It is very different from all other living eels, and scientists estimate it must have diverged from the others around 200 million years ago, during the Mesozoic era. It thus has not only its own species, but also its own genus and family, as well, and has been referred to by scientists as a \"living fossil\".\n\n"}
{"id": "965508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965508", "title": "Rhyacian", "text": "Rhyacian\n\nThe Rhyacian Period (; , meaning \"stream of lava\") is the second geologic period in the Paleoproterozoic Era and lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.\n\nThe Bushveld Igneous Complex and other similar intrusions formed during this period.\n\nThe Huronian (Makganyene) global glaciation began at the start of the Rhyacian lasted 100 million years.\n\nThe first known eukaryotes began to evolve in the Rhyacian period. The multicellular Francevillian Group Fossils, at 2.1-Gyr are from the Rhyacian period.\n\nFor the time period from 2250 Ma to 2060 Ma, an alternative period based on stratigraphy rather than chronometry, named either the Jatulian or the Eukaryian, was suggested in the geological timescale review 2012 edited by Gradstein et al., but , this has not yet been officially adopted by the IUGS. The term Jatulian is, however, used in the regional stratigraphy of the Paleoproterozoic rocks of Fennoscandia.\n"}
{"id": "1325733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1325733", "title": "Rudraksha", "text": "Rudraksha\n\nRudraksha (IAST:\"\", Devanagari: रुद्राक्ष, Bengali: রুদ্রাক্ষ, Kannada:ರುದ್ರಾಕ್ಷಿ, Telugu: రుద్రాక్ష, Tamil:ருத்ராட்சம்) is a seed traditionally used as prayer beads in Hinduism (especially Shaivism). Rudraksha bead are covered by an outer shell of blue color on fully ripening, hence also called blueberry beads. The seed is produced by several species of large evergreen broad-leaved tree in the genus \"Elaeocarpus\", with \"Elaeocarpus ganitrus roxb\" being the principal specie. They are associated with the Hindu deity Lord Shiva and are commonly worn for protection and chanting Om Namah Shivaya mantra by devotees. The seeds are primarily used in India and Nepal as beads for organic jewellery and malas and are valued similarly to semi-precious stones. Various meanings and potencies are attributed to beads with different numbers of segments (faces/mukh) and rare or unique beads are highly prized and valuable.\n\nRudraksha is a Sanskrit compound word consisting of the Rudra (Sanskrit: रुद्र) and ' (Sanskrit: अक्ष ). Rudra is one of Lord Shiva's vedic names and \"Akṣa\" means 'teardrops'. So it means Lord Rudra's (Lord Shiva's) teardrops.\n\nThere are other sources like Satguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami and Kamal Narayan Seetha who describes \"Akṣa\" as eye. So meaning of Rudraksha could also constitutes as \"Eye of Lord Shiva\" or \"Eye of Rudra\". \n\nRudraksha term is used both for the berries themselves and as a term for the type of mala made from them. There is a long tradition of wearing Rudraksha beads in India, particularly among Shaivism, due to their association with Lord Shiva. Lord Shiva himself wears rudraksha garlands. Om Namah Shivaya mantra is repeated (japa) using the rudraksha beads. Rudraksha malas have been used by Hindus as rosaries from at least the 10th century for meditation purposes and to sanctify the mind, body and soul.\n\nRudraksha beads may be strung together as a \"\" and used to count the repetition of a mantra or prayer, similar to the use of rosaries in Christianity. Most garlands contain 108 beads \"plus one\", as 108 is considered sacred and a suitable number of times to recite a short mantra. The extra bead, called the \"Meru\", or \"guru bead\", helps mark the beginning and end of a cycle of 108, as well as having symbolic value as a 'principle' bead. While counting the mala the meru should not be overtaken but when meru is reached then mala is recited in reverse order. Recitation should be done after covering the mala and it should not touch the ground. After recitation mala should be kept in cotton bag. Rudraksha mala's usually contain beads in following combination: 27+1, 54+1 or 108+1. 54+1 needs to be recited twice for one complete round. 27+1 needs to be recited four times for one complete round. It is possible to carry a single seed or several seeds strung on the same thread. Devi-Bhagavata Purana describes preparation of rudraksha mala. Rudraksha till 14 mukhi found reference in Shiva Purana, Padma Purana, Devi-Bhagavata Purana, Skanda Purana etc. The beads are commonly strung in silk or in a black or red cotton thread. Less often, jewellers may use copper, silver or gold wires though the rudraksha may be damaged if strung too tightly. \nSiam island Rudraksha has only 3 & 4-mukhi beads with rarest exceptions and all-year season of fruits. Rudrakshas there spreaded mainly by 1 more auspicious form of Rudra - \"KanKhao, or fruit flying foxes\".\n\nINTACH planting thousands of Rudraksha trees in Himalayas of Northern India in 2018, following the plan of detailed research.\n\n\"Elaeocarpus ganitrus roxb\" grows 60-80 feet and are found from the Gangetic plain in the foothills of the Himalayas to Southeast Asia, India, Nepal, Indonesia, New Guinea to Australia, Guam,Hawaii, China, Taiwan, parts of Malaysia and Java(Indonesia). Out of 300 species of Elaeocarpus 35 are found in India. \n\nRudraksha seeds are covered by an outer husk of blue when fully ripe, and for this reason are also known as blueberry beads. The blue color is not derived from pigment but is structural. It is an evergreen tree that grows quickly. The Rudraksha tree starts bearing fruit in three to four years from germination. As the tree matures, the roots form buttresses, rising up near the trunk and radiating out along the surface of the ground.\n\nGeneral information on the Rudraksha tree: found from sea level up to 3000m above. The Rudraksha tree grows in a narrow space, not on open ground. Its leaves resemble those of tamarind or nux vomica, but are longer. It yields one to two thousand fruits annually. These fruits are also known as Amritphala (Fruits of Nectar).\nRudraksha bead are found in from 1 to 21 mukhi. Recently 27 mukhi rudraksha was found in Nepal. 80% of all rudraksha are 4, 5 (most common) and 6 mukhi. 1 mukhi is rarest bead. Rudraksha from Nepal are of bigger size (25-30 mm) and Indonesian rudraksha are smaller in size(4-12 mm). Rudraksha are available in white, red, brown (most common), yellow and black color.\n\nThere are special type of rudraksha available like Gauri Shankar (two Rudraksha are naturally joined), Ganesha (a Rudraksha having trunk like protrusion on its body), Sawar (a Gauri Shankar in which one bead has only one line or Mukh), Trijuti (three Rudraksha-beads joined naturally) and the rare ones like Ved (4 Sawars on a bead), Dwaita (Two sawars on the bead etc).\n\nA Rudraksha's surface should be hard and the projections should be well grooved, as found in most of the Nepalese Rudrakshas. Indonesian Rudraksha has a different appearance. Rudraksha from India shows very high and deeply grooved projections resembling natural deep hills and valleys. \n\nMost faked rudraksha are 1 mukhi due to its rarity. A variety of rudraksha called 1 mukhi half-moon is thus sold in its place which is genuine and more easily available version of 1 mukhi rudraksha. 1 mukhi is faked using berries and Areca nut. Also some suppliers sell fake rudraksha which have serpent, trishula, Shiva-lingam etc carved on them. A real rudraksha does not have these markings. Fake rudraksha are also made by carving extra lines on lower mukhi rudraksha to obtain the rare and higher priced higher-mukhi rudraksha or by hiding lines to make a rarer lower mukhi rudraksha. Also fake Gauri Shankar rudraksha is made by gluing together two rudraksha beads.\n\nTo recognize real rudraksha many technique are used like sinking and floating of rudraksha as well as revolving rudraksha in between two copper coins. But these are not correct criteria. Some techniques which helps:-\n\n\nThe Rudraksha fruit have many phytoconstituents such as alkaloids, flavonoids, tannins, steroids, triterpenes, carbohydrates and cardiac glycosides. It contain \"rudrakine\", a new found alkaloid\n\nRudraksha exhibit pharmacological properties that include anti-inflammatory, analgesic, sedative, antidepressant, anti-asthmatic, hypoglycemia, antihypertensive, smooth muscle relaxant, hydrocholeretic, antiulcerogenic and anticonvulsant.\n\nIn Ayurveda the bead, bark and leaves of Rudraksha are used for treating various ailments like mental disorders, headache, fever, skin diseases etc. It is used for treating cough, breathing problems, controlling epilepsy, liver related problems, jaundice, stomachache, high blood pressure, improving memory power, controlling brain fever, doing blood purification, having antibacterial effect and is used on burns. Rudraksha fruits are thermogenic, sedative, is used against cough, bronchitis, neuralgia, cephalagia, Anorexia, migraine, manic conditions and other brain disorders. The flesh or pulp of drupe is given in epilepsy, diseases of head and in mental illness.\n\n\nMeaning: Sage Guha replied: (It is made of any one of the following 10 materials) Coral, Pearl, Crystal, Conch, Silver, Gold, Sandal, Putra-Jivika, Lotus or Rudraksha. Each head must be devoted and thought of as presided over by the deities of Akara to Kshakara. Golden thread should bind the beads through the holes. On its right silver (caps) and left copper. The face of a bead should face, the face of another head and tail, the tail. Thus a circular formation must be made.\n\n\nMeaning: Sage Sanatkumara approached Lord Kalagni Rudra and asked him, \"Lord, kindly explain me the method of wearing Rudraksha.\" What he told him was, \"Rudraksha became famous by that name because initially, it was produced from the eyes of Rudra. During the time of destruction and after the act of destruction, when Rudra closed his eye of destruction, Rudraksha was produced from that eye. That is the Rudraksha property of Rudraksha. Just by touching and wearing this Rudraksha, one gets the same effect of giving in charity one thousand cows.\"\n\n\nMeaning: He should count using a rosary(mala) whose beads are either made of tulsi plant or use rudraksha.\n\n\nMeaning: After prostrating before the celebrated form of Sri Mahadeva-Rudra in his heart, adoring the sacred Bhasma and Rudraksha and mentally reciting the great Mahavakya-Mantra, Tarasara, Sage Shuka asked his father Geat Sage Vyasa \n\n\nMeaning: Sage Bhusunda questioned Lord Kalagni-Rudra: What is the beginning of Rudraksha beads? What is the benefit of wearing them on the body? Lord Kalagni-Rudra answered him thus: I closed my eyes for the sake of destroying the Tripurasura. From my eyes thus closed, drops of water fell on the earth. These drops of tears turned into Rudrakshas. By the mere utterance of the name of 'Rudraksha', one acquires the benefit of giving ten cows in charity. By seeing and touching it, one attains double that benefit. I am unable to praise it any more.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29067", "title": "Satyr", "text": "Satyr\n\nIn Greek mythology, a satyr ( \"\", ), also known as a silenos ( ), is a male nature spirit with ears and a tail resembling those of a horse, as well as a permanent, exaggerated erection. Early artistic representations sometimes include horse-like legs, but, by the sixth century BC, they were more often represented with human legs. Comically hideous, they have mane-like hair, bestial faces, and snub noses and are always shown naked. Satyrs were characterized by their ribaldry and were known as lovers of wine, music, dancing, and women. They were companions of the god Dionysus and were believed to inhabit remote locales, such as woodlands, mountains, and pastures. They often attempted to seduce or rape nymphs and mortal women alike, usually with little success. They are sometimes shown masturbating or engaging in bestiality.\n\nIn classical Athens, satyrs made up the chorus in a genre of play known as a \"satyr play\", which was a parody of tragedy and was known for its bawdy and obscene humor. The only complete surviving play of this genre is \"Cyclops\" by Euripides, although a significant portion of Sophocles's \"Ichneutae\" has also survived. In mythology, the satyr Marsyas is said to have challenged the god Apollo to a musical contest and been flayed alive for his hubris. Though superficially ridiculous, satyrs were also thought to possess useful knowledge, if they could be coaxed into revealing it. The satyr Silenus was the tutor of the young Dionysus and a story from Ionia told of a \"silenos\" who gave sound advice when captured.\n\nOver the course of Greek history, satyrs gradually became portrayed as more human and less bestial. They also began to acquire goat-like characteristics in some depictions as a result of conflation with the Pans, plural forms of the god Pan with the legs and horns of goats. The Romans identified satyrs with their native nature spirits fauns. Eventually the distinction between the two was lost entirely. Since the Renaissance, satyrs have been most often represented with the legs and horns of goats. Representations of satyrs cavorting with nymphs have been common in western art, with many famous artists creating works on the theme. Since the beginning of the twentieth century, satyrs have generally lost much of their characteristic obscenity, becoming more tame and domestic figures. They commonly appear in works of fantasy and children's literature, in which they are most often referred to as \"fauns\".\n\nThe etymology of the name \"satyr\" (, \"\") is unclear, and several different etymologies have been proposed for it, including a possible Pre-Greek origin. Some scholars have linked the second part of name to the root of the Greek word θηρίον (\"thēríon\"), meaning \"wild animal\". This proposal may be supported by the fact that Euripides at one point refers to satyrs as \"theres\". Another proposed etymology derives the name from an ancient Peloponnesian word meaning \"the full ones\", alluding to their permanent state of sexual arousal. Eric Partridge suggested that the name may be related to the root \"sat-\", meaning \"to sow\", which has also been proposed as the root of the name of the Roman god Saturn. Satyrs are usually indistinguishable from \"silenoi\", whose iconography is virtually identical. According to \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\", the name \"satyr\" is sometimes derogatorily applied to a \"brutish or lustful man\". The term satyriasis refers to a medical condition in males characterized by excessive sexual desire. It is the male equivalent of nymphomania.\n\nAccording to classicist Martin Litchfield West, satyrs and silenoi in Greek mythology are similar to a number of other entities appearing in other Indo-European mythologies, indicating that they probably go back, in some vague form, to Proto-Indo-European mythology. Like satyrs, these other Indo-European nature spirits are often human-animal hybrids, frequently bearing specifically equine or asinine features. Human-animal hybrids known as Kiṃpuruṣas or Kiṃnaras are mentioned in the \"Rāmāyaṇa\", an Indian epic poem written in Sanskrit. According to Augustine of Hippo (354 – 430 AD) and others, the ancient Celts believed in \"dusii\", which were hairy demons believed to occasionally take human form and seduce mortal women. Later figures in Celtic folklore, including the Irish \"bocánach\", the Scottish \"ùruisg\" and \"glaistig\", and the Manx \"goayr heddagh\", are part human and part goat. The lexicographer Hesychius of Alexandria (fifth or sixth century AD) records that the Illyrians believed in satyr-like creatures called \"Deuadai\". The Slavic \"lešiy\" also bears similarities to satyrs, since he is described as being covered in hair and having \"goat's horns, ears, feet, and long clawlike fingernails.\"\n\nLike satyrs, these similar creatures in other Indo-European mythologies are often also tricksters, mischief-makers, and dancers. The \"lešiy\" was believed to trick travelers into losing their way. The Armenian Pay(n) were a group of male spirits said to dance in the woods. In Germanic mythology, elves were also said to dance in woodland clearings and leave behind fairy rings. They were also thought to play pranks, steal horses, tie knots in people's hair, and steal children and replace them with changelings. West notes that satyrs, elves, and other nature spirits of this variety are a \"motley crew\" and that it is difficult to reconstruct a prototype behind them. Nonetheless, he concludes that \"we can recognize recurrent traits\" and that they can probably be traced back to the Proto-Indo-Europeans in some form.\n\nOn the other hand, a number of commentators have noted that satyrs are also similar to beings in the beliefs of ancient Near Eastern cultures. Various demons of the desert are mentioned in ancient Near Eastern texts, although the iconography of these beings is poorly-attested. Beings possibly similar to satyrs called \"śě’îrîm\" are mentioned several times in the Hebrew Bible. \"Śĕ’îr\" was the standard Hebrew word for \"he-goat\", but it could also apparently sometimes refer to demons in the forms of goats. They were evidently subjects of veneration, because forbids Israelites from making sacrificial offerings to them and mentions that a special cult was established for the \"śě’îrîm\" of Jeroboam I. Like satyrs, they were associated with desolate places and with some variety of dancing. predicts, in Karen L. Edwards's translation: \"But \"wild animals\" [\"ziim\"] will lie down there, and its houses will be full of \"howling creatures\" [\"ohim\"]; there ostriches will live, and there \"goat-demons\" [\"śĕ’îr\"] will dance.\" Similarly, declares: \"\"Wildcats\" [\"ziim\"] shall meet with \"hyenas\" [\"iim\"], \"goat-demons\" [\"śĕ’îr\"] shall call to each other; there too \"Lilith\" [\"lilit\"] shall repose and find a place to rest.\" \"Śě’îrîm\" were understood by at least some ancient commentators to be goat-like demons of the wilderness. In the Latin Vulgate translation of the Old Testament, \"śĕ’îr\" is translated as \"pilosus\", which also means \"hairy\". Jerome, the translator of the Vulgate, equated these figures with satyrs. Both satyrs and \"śě’îrîm\" have also been compared to the jinn of Pre-Islamic Arabia, who were envisioned as hairy demons in the forms of animals who could sometimes change into other forms, including human-like ones.\n\nIn archaic and classical Greek art, satyrs are shown with the ears and tails of horses. They walk upright on two legs, like human beings. They are usually shown with bestial faces, snub noses, and manelike hair. They are often bearded and balding. Like other Greek nature spirits, satyrs are always depicted nude. Sometimes they also have the legs of horses, but, in ancient art, including both vase paintings and in sculptures, satyrs are most often represented with human legs and feet.\n\nSatyrs' genitals are always depicted as either erect or at least extremely large. Their erect phalli represent their association with wine and women, which were the two major aspects of their god Dionysus's domain. In some cases, satyrs are portrayed as very human-like, lacking manes or tails. As time progressed, this became the general trend, with satyrs losing aspects of their original bestial appearance over the course of Greek history and gradually becoming more and more human. In the most common depictions, satyrs are shown drinking wine, dancing, playing flutes, chasing nymphs, or consorting with Dionysus. They are also frequently shown masturbating or copulating with animals. In scenes from ceramic paintings depicting satyrs engaging in orgies, satyrs standing by and watching are often shown masturbating.\n\nOne of the earliest written sources for satyrs is the \"Catalogue of Women\", which is attributed to the Boeotian poet Hesiod. Here satyrs are born alongside the nymphs and Kouretes and are described as \"good-for-nothing, prankster Satyrs\". Satyrs were widely seen as mischief-makers who routinely played tricks on people and interfered with their personal property. They had insatiable sexual appetites and often sought to seduce or ravish both nymphs and mortal women alike, though these attempts were not always successful. Satyrs almost always appear in artwork alongside female companions of some variety. These female companions may be clothed or nude, but the satyrs always treat them as mere sexual objects. A single elderly satyr named Silenus was believed to have been the tutor of Dionysus on Mount Nysa. After Dionysus grew to maturity, Silenus became one of his most devout followers, remaining perpetually drunk.\n\nThis image was reflected in the classical Athenian satyr play. Satyr plays were a genre of plays defined by the fact that their choruses were invariably made up of satyrs. These satyrs are always led by Silenus, who is their \"father\". According to Carl A. Shaw, the chorus of satyrs in a satyr play were \"always trying to get a laugh with their animalistic, playfully rowdy, and, above all, sexual behavior.\" The satyrs play an important role in driving the plot of the production, without any of them actually being the lead role, which was always reserved for a god or tragic hero. Many satyr plays are named for the activity in which the chorus of satyrs engage during the production, such as Δικτυουλκοί (\"Diktyoulkoí\"; \"Net-Haulers\"), Θεωροὶ ἢ Ἰσθμιασταί (\"Theōroì ē Isthmiastaí\"; \"Spectators or Competitors at the Isthmian Games\"), and Ἰχνευταί (\"Ichneutaí\"; \"Searchers\"). Like tragedies, but unlike comedies, satyr plays were set in the distant past and dealt with mythological subjects. The third or second-century BC philosopher Demetrius of Phalerum famously characterized the satiric genre in his treatise \"De Elocutione\" as the middle ground between tragedy and comedy: a \"playful tragedy\" (, \"tragōdía paízdousa\").\n\nThe only complete extant satyr play is Euripides's \"Cyclops\", which is a burlesque of a scene from the eighth-century BC epic poem, the \"Odyssey\", in which Odysseus is captured by the Cyclops Polyphemus in a cave. In the play, Polyphemus has captured a tribe of satyrs led by Silenus, who is described as their \"Father\", and forced them to work for him as his slaves. After Polyphemus captures Odysseus, Silenus attempts to play Odysseus and Polyphemus off each other for his own benefit, primarily by tricking them into giving him wine. As in the original scene, Odysseus manages to blind Polyphemus and escape. Approximately 450 lines, most of which are fragmentary, have survived of Sophocles's satyr play \"Ichneutae\" (\"Tracking Satyrs\"). In the surviving portion of the play, the chorus of satyrs are described as \"lying on the ground like hedgehogs in a bush, or like a monkey bending over to fart at someone.\" The character Cyllene scolds them: \"All you [satyrs] do you do for the sake of fun!... Cease to expand your smooth phallus with delight. You should not make silly jokes and chatter, so that the gods will make you shed tears to make me laugh.\"\n\nIn Dionysius's fragmentary satyr play \"Limos\" (\"Starvation\"), Silenus attempts to give the hero Heracles an enema. A number of vase paintings depict scenes from satyr plays, including the Pronomos Vase, which depicts the entire cast of a victorious satyr play, dressed in costume, wearing shaggy leggings, erect phalli, and horse tails. The genre's reputation for crude humor is alluded to in other texts as well. In Aristophanes's comedy \"Thesmophoriazusae\", the tragic poet Agathon declares that a dramatist must be able to adopt the \"personae\" of his characters in order to successfully portray them on stage. In lines 157–158, Euripides's unnamed relative retorts: \"Well, let me know when you're writing satyr plays; I'll get behind you with my hard-on and show you how.\" This is the only extant reference to the genre of satyr plays from a work of ancient Greek comedy and, according to Shaw, it effectively characterizes satyr plays as \"a genre of 'hard-ons.'\"\n\nIn spite of their bawdy behavior, however, satyrs were still revered as semi-divine beings and companions of the god Dionysus. They were thought to possess their own kind of wisdom that was useful to humans if they could be convinced to share it. In Plato's \"Symposium\", Alcibiades praises Socrates by comparing him to the famous satyr Marsyas. He resembles him physically, since he is balding and has a snub-nose, but Alcibiades contends that he resembles him mentally as well, because he is \"insulting and abusive\", in possession of irresistible charm, \"erotically inclined to beautiful people\", and \"acts as if he knows nothing\". Alcibiades concludes that Socrates's role as a philosopher is similar to that of the paternal satyr Silenus, because, at first, his questions seem ridiculous and laughable, but, upon closer inspection, they are revealed to be filled with much wisdom. One story, mentioned by Herodotus in his \"Histories\" and in a fragment by Aristotle, recounts that King Midas once captured a silenus, who provided him with wise philosophical advice.\n\nAccording to classicist William F. Hansen, although satyrs were popular in classical art, they rarely appear in surviving mythological accounts. Different classical sources present conflicting accounts of satyrs' origins. According to a fragment from the Hesiodic \"Catalogue of Women\", satyrs are sons of the five granddaughters of Phoroneus and therefore siblings of the Oreads and the Kouretes. The satyr Marsyas, however, is described by mythographers as the son of either Olympos or Oiagros. Hansen observes that \"there may be more than one way to produce a satyr, as there is to produce a Cyclops or a centaur.\" The classical Greeks recognized that satyrs obviously could not self-reproduce since there were no female satyrs, but they seem to have been unsure whether satyrs were mortal or immortal.\n\nRather than appearing \"en masse\" as in satyr-plays, when satyrs appear in myths it is usually in the form of a single, famous character. The comic playwright Melanippides of Melos ( 480–430 BC) tells the story in his lost comedy \"Marsyas\" of how, after inventing the \"aulos\", the goddess Athena looked in the mirror while she was playing it. She saw how blowing into it puffed up her cheeks and made her look silly, so she threw the aulos away and cursed it so that whoever picked it up would meet an awful death. The aulos was picked up by the satyr Marsyas, who challenged Apollo to a musical contest. They both agreed beforehand that whoever won would be allowed to do whatever he wanted to the loser. Marsyas played the aulos and Apollo played the lyre. Apollo turned his lyre upside-down and played it. He asked Marsyas to do the same with his instrument. Since he could not, Apollo was deemed to victor. Apollo hung Marsyas from a pine tree and flayed him alive to punish him for his hubris in daring to challenge one of the gods. Later, this story became accepted as canonical and the Athenian sculptor Myron created a group of bronze sculptures based on it, which was installed before the western front of the Parthenon in around 440 BC. Surviving retellings of the legend are found in the \"Library\" of Pseudo-Apollodorus, Pausanias's \"Guide to Greece\", and the \"Fabulae\" of Pseudo-Hyginus.\n\nIn a myth referenced in multiple classical texts, including the \"Bibliotheke\" of Pseudo-Apollodorus and the \"Fabulae\" of Pseudo-Hyginus, a satyr from Argos once attempted to rape the nymph Amymone, but she called to the god Poseidon for help and he launched his trident at the satyr, knocking him to the ground. This myth may have originated from Aeschylus's lost satyr play \"Amymone\". Scenes of one or more satyrs chasing Amymone became a common trope in Greek vase paintings starting in the late fifth century BC. Among the earliest depictions of the scene come from a bell krater in the style of the Peleus Painter from Syracuse (PEM 10, pl. 155) and a bell krater in the style of the Dinos Painter from Vienna (DM 7).\n\nThe iconography of satyrs was gradually conflated with that of the Pans, plural forms of the god Pan, who were regularly depicted with the legs and horns of a goat. By the Hellenistic Period (323–31 BC), satyrs were beginning to sometimes be shown with goat-like features. Meanwhile, both satyrs and Pans also continued to be shown as more human and less bestial. Scenes of satyrs and centaurs were very popular during the Hellenistic Period. They often appear dancing or playing the aulos. The maenads that often accompany satyrs in Archaic and Classical representations are often replaced in Hellenistic portrayals with wood nymphs.\n\nArtists also began to widely represent scenes of nymphs repelling the unwanted advances of amorous satyrs. Scenes of this variety were used to express the dark, beastly side of human sexuality at a remove by attributing that sexuality to satyrs, who were part human and part animal. In this way, satyrs became vehicles of a metaphor for a phenomenon extending far beyond the original narrative purposes in which they served during earlier periods of Greek history. Some variants on this theme represent a satyr being rebuffed by a hermaphrodite, who, from the satyr's perspective, appears to be a beautiful, young girl. These sculptures may have been intended as kind of sophisticated erotic joke.\n\nThe Athenian sculptor Praxiteles's statue \"Pouring Satyr\" represented the eponymous satyr as very human-like. The satyr was shown as very young, in line with Praxiteles's frequent agenda of representing deities and other figures as adolescents. This tendency is also attested in the descriptions of his sculptures of Dionysus and the Archer Eros written in the third or fourth century AD by the art critic Callistratus. The original statue is widely assumed to have depicted the satyr in the act of pouring an \"oinochoe\" over his head into a cup, probably a \"kantharos\". Antonio Corso describes the satyr in this sculpture as a \"gentle youth\" and \"a precious and gentle being\" with \"soft and velvety\" skin. The only hints at his \"feral nature\" were his ears, which were slightly pointed, and his small tail.\n\nThe shape of the sculpture was an S-shape, shown in three-quarter view. The satyr had short, boyish locks, derived from those of earlier Greek athletic sculpture. Although the original statue has been lost, a representation of the pouring satyr appears in a late classical relief sculpture from Athens and twenty-nine alleged \"copies\" of the statue from the time of the Roman Empire have also survived. Olga Palagia and J. J. Pollitt argue that, although the \"Pouring Satyr\" is widely accepted as a genuine work of Praxiteles, it may not have been a single work at all and the supposed \"copies\" of it may merely be Roman sculptures repeating the traditional Greek motif of pouring wine at \"symposia\".\n\nThe Romans identified satyrs with their own nature spirits, fauns. Although generally similar to satyrs, fauns differed in that they were usually seen as \"shy, woodland creatures\" rather than the drunk and boisterous satyrs of the classical Greeks. Also, fauns generally lacked the association Greek satyrs had with secret wisdom. Unlike classical Greek satyrs, fauns were unambiguously goat-like; they had the upper bodies of men, but the legs, hooves, and horns of goats. The first-century BC Roman poet Lucretius mentions in his lengthy poem \"De rerum natura\" that people of his time believed in \"goat-legged\" (\"capripedes\") satyrs, along with nymphs who lived in the mountains and fauns who played rustic music on stringed instruments and pipes.\n\nIn Roman-era depictions, satyrs and fauns are both often associated with music and depicted playing the Pan pipes or \"syrinx\". The poet Virgil, who flourished during the early years of the Roman Empire, recounts a story in his sixth \"Eclogue\" about two boys who tied up the satyr Silenus while he was in a drunken stupor and forced him to sing them a song about the beginning of the universe. The first-century AD Roman poet Ovid makes Jupiter, the king of the gods, express worry that the viciousness of humans will leave fauns, nymphs, and satyrs without a place to live, so he gives them a home in the forests, woodlands, and mountains, where they will be safe. Ovid also retells the story of Marsyas's hubris. He describes a musical contest between Marsyas, playing the aulos, and the god Apollo, playing the lyre. Marsyas loses and Apollo flays him as punishment.\n\nThe Roman naturalist and encyclopedist Pliny the Elder conflated satyrs with gibbons, which he describes using the word \"satyrus\", a Latinized form of the Greek \"satyros\". He characterizes them as \"a savage and wild people; distinct voice and speech they have none, but in steed thereof, they keep a horrible gnashing and hideous noise: rough they are and hairie all over their bodies, eies they have red like the houlets [owls] and toothed they be like dogs.\"\n\nThe second-century Greek Middle Platonist philosopher Plutarch records a legendary incident in his \"Life of Sulla\", in which the soldiers of the Roman general Sulla are reported to have captured a satyr sleeping during a military campaign in Greece in 89 BC. Sulla's men brought the satyr to him and he attempted to interrogate it, but it spoke only in an unintelligible sound: a cross between the neighing of a horse and the bleating of a goat. The second-century Greek travel writer Pausanias reports having seen the tombs of deceased silenoi in Judaea and at Pergamon. Based on these sites, Pausanias concludes that silenoi must be mortal.\n\nThe third-century Greek biographer Philostratus records a legend in his \"Life of Apollonius of Tyana\" of how the ghost of an Aethiopian satyr was deeply enamored with the women from the local village and had killed two of them. Then, the philosopher Apollonius of Tyana set a trap for it with wine, knowing that, after drinking it, the ghost-satyr would fall asleep forever. The wine diminished from the container before the onlookers' eyes, but the ghost-satyr himself remained invisible. Once all the wine had vanished, the ghost-satyr fell asleep and never bothered the villagers again. Amira El-Zein notes similarities between this story and later Arabic accounts of jinn. The treatise \"Saturnalia\" by the fifth-century AD Roman poet Macrobius connects both the word \"satyr\" and the name \"Saturn\" to the Greek word for \"penis\". Macrobius explains that this is on account of satyrs' sexual lewdness. Macrobius also equates Dionysus and Apollo as the same deity and states that a festival in honor of Bacchus is held every year atop Mount Parnassus, at which many satyrs are often seen.\n\nStarting in late antiquity, Christian writers began to portray satyrs and fauns as dark, evil, and demonic. Jerome ( 347 – 420 AD) described them as symbols of Satan on account of their lasciviousness. Despite this, however, satyrs were sometimes clearly distinguished from demons and sometimes even portrayed as noble. Because Christians believed that the distinction between humans and animals was spiritual rather than physical, it was thought that even a satyr could attain salvation. Isidore of Seville ( 560 – 636) records an anecdote later recounted in the \"Golden Legend\", that Anthony the Great encountered a satyr in the desert who asked to pray with him to their common God. During the Early Middle Ages, features and characteristics of satyrs and the god Pan, who resembled a satyr, became absorbed into traditional Christian iconography of Satan.\n\nMedieval storytellers in western Europe also frequently conflated satyrs with wild men. Both satyrs and wild men were conceived as part human and part animal and both were believed to possess unrestrained sexual appetites. Stories of wild men during the Middle Ages often had an erotic tone and were primarily told orally by peasants, since the clergy officially disapproved of them. In this form, satyrs are sometimes described and represented in medieval bestiaries, where a satyr is often shown dressed in an animal skin, carrying a club and a serpent. In the \"Aberdeen Bestiary\", the \"Ashmole Bestiary\", and MS Harley 3244, a satyr is shown as a nude man holding a wand resembling a jester's club and leaning back, crossing his legs. Satyrs are sometimes juxtaposed with apes, which are characterized as \"physically disgusting and akin to the Devil\". In other cases, satyrs are usually shown nude, with enlarged phalli to emphasize their sexual nature. In the Second-Family Bestiary, the name \"satyr\" is used as the name of a species of ape, which is described as having a \"very agreeable face, restless, however, in its twitching movements.\"\n\nDuring the Renaissance, satyrs and fauns began to reappear in works of European art. During the Renaissance, no distinction was made between satyrs and fauns and both were usually given human and goat-like features in whatever proportion the artist deemed appropriate. A goat-legged satyr appears at the base of Michelangelo's statue \"Bacchus\" (1497). Renaissance satyrs still sometimes appear in scenes of drunken revelry like those from antiquity, but they also sometimes appear in family scenes, alongside female and infant or child satyrs. This trend towards more familial, domestic satyrs may have resulted from conflation with wild men, who, especially in Renaissance depictions from Germany, were often portrayed as living relatively peaceful lives with their families in the wilderness. The most famous representation of a domestic satyr is Albrecht Dürer's 1505 engraving \"The Satyr's Family\", which has been widely reproduced and imitated. This popular portrayal of satyrs and wild men may have also helped give rise to the later European concept of the noble savage.\n\nSatyrs occupied a paradoxical, liminal space in Renaissance art, not only because they were part human and part beast, but also because they were both antique and natural. They were of classical origin, but had an iconographical canon of their own very different from the standard representations of gods and heroes. They could be used to embody what Stephen J. Campbell calls a \"monstrous double\" of the category in which human beings often placed themselves. It is in this aspect that satyrs appear in Jacopo de' Barbari's 1495 series of prints depicting satyrs and naked men in combat and in Piero di Cosimo's \"Stories of Primitive Man\", inspired by Lucretius. Satyrs became seen as \"pre-human\", embodying all the traits of savagery and barbarism associated with animals, but in human-like bodies. Satyrs also became used to question early modern humanism in ways which some scholars have seen as similar to present-day posthumanism, as in Titian's \"Flaying of Marsyas\" ( 1570–1576). \"The Flaying of Marysas\" depicts the scene from Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" in which the satyr Marysas is flayed alive. According to Campbell, the people performing the flaying are shown calmly absorbed in their task, while Marsyas himself even displays \"an unlikely patience\". The painting reflects a broad continuum between the divine and the bestial.\n\nIn the 1560 Geneva Bible, the word \"sa’ir\" in both of the instances in Isaiah is translated into English as \"satyr\". The 1611 King James Version follows this translation and likewise renders \"sa’ir\" as \"satyr\". Edwards states that the King James Version's translation of this phrase and others like it was intended to reduce the strangeness and unfamiliarity of the creatures described in the original Hebrew text by rendering them as names of familiar entities. Edmund Spenser refers to a group of woodland creatures as Satyrs in his epic poem \"The Faerie Queene\". In Canto VI, Una is wandering through the forest when she stumbles upon a \"troupe of Fauns and Satyrs far away Within the wood were dancing in a round.\" Although Satyrs are often negatively characterized in Greek and Roman mythology, the Satyrs in this poem are docile, helpful creatures. This is evident by the way they help protect Una from Sansloy. Sylvanus, the leader, and the rest of the Satyrs become enamored by Una's beauty and begin to worship her as if she is a deity. However, the Satyrs prove to be simple minded creatures because they begin to worship the donkey she was riding.\n\nIn the seventeenth century, satyrs became identified with great apes. In 1699, the English anatomist Edward Tyson (1651–1708) published an account of his dissection of a creature which scholars have now identified as chimpanzee. In this account, Tyson argued that stories of satyrs, wild men, and other hybrid mythological creatures had all originated from the misidentification of apes or monkeys. The French materialist philosopher Julien Offray de La Mettrie (1709–1751) included a section titled \"On savage men, called Satyrs\" in his \"Oeuvres philosophiques\", in which he describes great apes, identifying them with both satyrs and wild men. Many early accounts of the orangutan describe the males as being sexually aggressive towards human women and towards females of its own species, much like classical Greek satyrs. The first scientific name given to this ape was \"Simia satyrus\".\n\nRelationships between satyrs and nymphs of this period are often portrayed as consensual. This trend is exemplified by the 1623 painting \"Satyr and Nymph\" by Gerard van Honthorst, which depicts a satisfied satyr and nymph lasciviously fondling each other after engaging in obviously consensual sex. Both are smiling and the nymph is showing her teeth, a sign commonly used by painters of the era to signify that the woman in question is of loose morals. The satyr's tongue is visible as the nymph playfully tugs on his goat beard and he strokes her chin. Even during this period, however, depictions of satyrs uncovering sleeping nymphs are still common, indicating that their traditional associations with rape and sexual violence had not been forgotten.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, satyrs and nymphs came to often function as a means of representing sexuality without offending Victorian moral sensibilities. In the novel \"The Marble Faun\" (1860) by the American author Nathaniel Hawthorne, the Italian count Donatello is described as bearing a remarkable resemblance to one of Praxiteles's marble satyr statues. Like the satyrs of Greek legend, Donatello has a carefree nature. His association with satyrs is further cemented by his intense sexual attraction to the American woman Miriam.\n\nSatyrs and nymphs provided a classical pretext which allowed sexual depictions of them to be seen as objects of high art rather than mere pornography. The French emperor Napoleon III awarded the Academic painter Alexandre Cabanel the Legion of Honour, partly on account of his painting \"Nymph Abducted by a Faun\". In 1873, another French Academicist William-Adolphe Bouguereau painted \"Nymphs and Satyr\", which depicts four nude nymphs dancing around \"an unusually submissive satyr\", gently coaxing him into the water of a nearby stream. This painting was bought that same year by an American named John Wolfe, who displayed it publicly in a prominent location in the bar at the Hoffman House, a hotel he owned on Madison Square and Broadway. Despite its risqué subject, many women came to the bar to view the painting. The painting was soon mass reproduced on ceramic tiles, porcelain plates, and other luxury items in the United States.\n\nIn 1876, Stéphane Mallarmé wrote \"The Afternoon of a Faun\", a first-person narrative poem about a faun who attempts to kiss two beautiful nymphs while they are sleeping together. He accidentally wakes them up. Startled, they transform into white water birds and fly away, leaving the faun to play his pan pipes alone. Claude Debussy composed a symphonic poem \"Prélude à l'après-midi d'un faune\" (\"Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun\"), which was first performed in 1894.\n\nThe late nineteenth-century German Existentialist philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche was either unaware of or chose to ignore the fact that, in all the earliest representations, satyrs are depicted as horse-like. He accordingly defined a satyr as a \"bearded\" creature \"who derived his name and attributes from the goat.\" Nietzsche excluded the horse-like satyrs of Greek tradition from his consideration entirely and argued that tragedy had originated from a chorus of men dressed up as satyrs or goats (\"tragoi\"). Thus, Nietzsche held that tragedy had begun as a Dionysian activity. Nietzsche's rejection of the early evidence for horse-like satyrs was a mistake his critics severely excoriated him for. Nonetheless, he was the first modern scholar to recognize the full importance of satyrs in Greek culture and tradition, as Dionysian symbols of humanity's close ties to the animal kingdom. Like the Greeks, Nietzsche envisioned satyrs as essentially humans stripped down to their most basic and bestial instincts.\n\nIn 1908, the French painter Henri Matisse produced his own \"Nymph and Satyr\" painting in which the animal nature of the satyr is drastically minimized. The satyr is given human legs, but is exceptionally hairy. The seduction element is removed altogether; the satyr simply extends his arms towards the nymph, who lies on the ground, defeated. Penny Florence writes that the \"generic scene displays little sensuality\" and that the main factor distinguishing it is its tone, because \"It does not seem convincing as a rape, despite the nymph's reluctance.\" In 1912, Vaslav Nijinsky choreographed Debussy's symphonic poem \"Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun\" as a ballet and danced in it as the lead role of the faun. The choreography of the ballet and Nijinsky's performance were both highly erotic and sexually charged, causing widespread scandal among upper-class Parisians. In the 1980 biographical film \"Nijinsky\", directed by Herbert Ross, Nijinsky, who is played by George de la Peña, is portrayed as actually masturbating on stage in front of the entire live audience during the climax of the dance.\n\nThe 1917 Italian silent film \"Il Fauno\", directed by Febo Mari, is about a statue of a faun who comes to life and falls in love with a female model. Fauns appear in the animated dramatization of Ludwig von Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 (1808) in the 1940 Walt Disney film \"Fantasia\". Their goat-legs are portrayed as brightly colored, but their hooves are black. They play the Pan pipes and, like traditional satyrs and fauns, are portrayed as mischievous. One young faun plays hide-and-seek with a unicorn and imitates a statue of a faun atop a pedestal. Though the fauns are not portrayed as overtly sexual, they do assist the Cupids in pairing the centaurs into couples. A drunken Bacchus appears in the same scene.\n\nA faun named Mr. Tumnus appears in the classic juvenile fantasy novel \"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe\" (1950) by C. S. Lewis. Mr. Tumnus has goat legs and horns, but also a tail long enough for him to carry it draped over his arm to prevent it from dragging in the snow. He is a domesticated figure who lacks the bawdiness and hypersexuality that characterized classical satyrs and fauns. Instead, Mr. Tumnus wears a scarf and carries an umbrella and lives in a cozy cave with a bookshelf with works such as \"The Life and Letters of Silenus\", \"Nymphs and their Ways\", and \"Is Man a Myth?\". He entertains Lucy Pevensie, the first child to visit Narnia, hoping to put her to sleep so he can give her over to the White Witch, but his conscience stops him and he instead escorts her back home. Later, the children discover him missing from his home and, eventually, they discover that the White Witch has turned him to stone for his disobedience.\n\nThe satyr has appeared in all five editions of the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" role-playing game, having been introduced in 1976 in the earliest edition, in Supplement IV: \"Gods, Demi-gods & Heroes\" (1976), then in the first edition of the Monster Manual (1977), where it is described as a sylvan woodland inhabitant primarily interested in sport such as frolicking, piping, and chasing wood nymphs. The life history of satyrs was further detailed in \"Dragon\" No. 155 (March 1990), in \"The Ecology of the Satyr.\" The satyr was later detailed as a playable character race in \"The Complete Book of Humanoids\" (1993), and is later presented as a playable character race again in \"\" (1995). The satyr appears in the Monster Manual for the 3.0 edition. \"Savage Species\" (2003) presented the satyr as both a race and a playable class. The satyr appears in the revised Monster Manual for version 3.5 and also appears in the Monster Manual for the 4th edition, and as a playable character race in the \"Heroes of the Feywild\" sourcebook (2011).\n\nMatthew Barney's art video \"Drawing Restraint 7\" (1993) includes two satyrs wrestling in the backseat of a moving limousine. A satyr named Grover Underwood appears in the young adult fantasy novel \"The Lightning Thief\" (2005) by American author Rick Riordan, as well as in subsequent novels in the series \"Percy Jackson & the Olympians\". Though consistently referred to as a \"satyr\", Grover is described as having goat legs, pointed ears, and horns. Grover is not portrayed with the sexually obscene traits that characterized classical Greek satyrs. Instead, he is the loyal protector to the main character Percy Jackson, who is the son of a mortal woman and the god Poseidon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "431529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431529", "title": "Supersolid", "text": "Supersolid\n\nA supersolid is a spatially ordered material with superfluid properties. Superfluidity is a special quantum state of matter in which a substance flows with zero viscosity.\n\nLiquid helium-4 was discovered by Pyotr Kapitza, John F. Allen, and Don Misener to exhibit property of superfluidity when it is cooled below a characteristic transition temperature called the lambda point. The superfluid motion of pairs of electrons (Cooper pairs) within a cooled metallic lattice is also the mechanism behind superconductivity. However, before the recent observation of superfluid-like behavior in solid helium-4, superfluidity was considered to be a property exclusive to the fluid state, e.g. superconducting electron and neutron fluids, gases with Bose–Einstein condensates, or unconventional liquids such as helium-4 or helium-3 at sufficiently low temperature.\n\nSuperfluidity in helium arises from the normal liquid by a second-order phase transition (\"lambda transition\").\nIn a dilute gas of Bose particles it comes about by a phase transition that belongs to the universality class of the\nspherical model. In thin liquid helium films, it arises from the normal liquid\nby a Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. In the case of helium-4, it has been conjectured since 1970 that it might be possible to create a supersolid.\n\nIn most theories of this state, it is supposed that vacancies, empty sites normally occupied by particles in an ideal crystal, exist even at absolute zero. These vacancies are caused by zero-point energy, which also causes them to move from site to site as waves. Because vacancies are bosons, if such clouds of vacancies can exist at very low temperature, then a Bose–Einstein condensation of vacancies could occur at temperatures less than a few tenths of a kelvin. A coherent flow of vacancies is equivalent to a \"superflow\" (frictionless flow) of particles in the opposite direction. Despite the presence of the gas of vacancies, the ordered structure of a crystal is maintained, although with less than one particle on each lattice site on average.\n\nIntroduction to the theory of supersolidity can be found in the textbook Superfluid States of Matter\n\nWhile several experiments yielded negative results, in the 1980s, John Goodkind from UCSD discovered the first 'anomaly' in a solid by using ultrasound. Inspired by his observation, Eun-Seong Kim and Moses Chan at Pennsylvania State University saw phenomena which were interpreted as supersolid behavior. Specifically, they observed what they later named Non-Classical Rotational Inertia, an unusual decoupling of the solid helium from a container's walls which could not be explained by classical models but which was consistent with a superfluid-like decoupling of a small percentage of the atoms from the rest of the atoms in the container. If such an interpretation is correct, it would signify the discovery of a new quantum phase of matter.\n\nThe experiment of Kim and Chan looked for superflow by means of a \"torsional oscillator.\" To achieve this, a turntable is attached tightly to a spring-loaded spindle; then, instead of rotating at constant speed, the turntable is given an initial motion in one direction. The spring causes the table to oscillate similarly to a balance wheel. A toroid filled with solid helium-4 is attached to the table. The rate of oscillation of the turntable and toroid depend on the amount of solid moving with it. If there is frictionless superfluid inside, then the mass moving with the doughnut is less, and the oscillation will occur at a faster rate. In this way, one can measure the amount of superfluid existing at various temperatures. Kim and Chan found that up to about 2% of the material in the doughnut was superfluid. (Recent experiments have increased the percentage to over 20%). Similar experiments in other laboratories have confirmed these results. A mysterious feature, not in agreement with the old theories, is that the transition continues to occur at high pressures.\n\nHigh-precision measurements of the melting pressure of helium-4 have not resulted in any observation of a phase transition in the solid.\n\nPrior to 2007, many theorists performed calculations indicating that vacancies cannot exist at zero temperature in solid helium-4. While there is some debate, it seems more doubtful that what the experiments observed was the supersolid state. Indeed, further experimentation, including that by Kim and Chan, has also cast some doubt on the existence of a true supersolid. One experiment found that repeated warming followed by slow cooling of the sample causes the effect to disappear. This annealing process removes flaws in the crystal structure. Furthermore, most samples of helium-4 contain a small amount of helium-3. When some of this helium-3 is removed, the superfluid transition occurs at a lower temperature, which suggests that the superflow is involved with actual fluid moving along imperfections in the crystal rather than a property of the perfect crystal.\n\nIn 2009, it was proposed to realize a supersolid in an optical lattice.\nStarting from a molecular quantum crystal, supersolidity is induced dynamically as an out-of-equilibrium state. While neighboring molecular wave functions overlap, two bosonic species simultaneously exhibit quasicondensation and long-range solid order, which is stabilized by their mass imbalance. This proposal can be realized in present experiments with bosonic mixtures in an optical lattice that features simple on-site interactions.\n\nExperimental and theoretical work continues in hopes of finally settling the question of the existence of a supersolid.\n\nIn 2012, Chan repeated his original experiments with a new apparatus that was designed to eliminate any contribution from elasticity of the helium. In this experiment, Chan and his coauthors found no evidence of supersolidity.\n\nIn 2017, two research groups from ETH Zurich and from MIT reported on the first creation of a supersolid with ultracold quantum gases. The Zurich group placed a Bose-Einstein condensate inside two optical resonators, which enhanced the atomic interactions until they start to spontaneously crystallize and form a solid that maintains the inherent superfluidity of Bose-Einstein condensates. The MIT group exposed a Bose-Einstein condensate in a double-well potential to light beams that created an effective spin-orbit coupling. The interference between the atoms on the two spin-orbit coupled lattice sites gave rise to a density modulation that establishes a stripe phase with supersolid properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6969330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6969330", "title": "Tania Aebi", "text": "Tania Aebi\n\nTania Aebi (born October 7, 1966) is an American sailor. She completed a solo circumnavigation of the globe in a 26-foot sailboat between the ages of 18 and 21, making her the first American woman and the youngest person (at the time) to sail around the world. Despite many challenges, she accomplished her goal and proved to her father that she could complete something.\n\nAebi did not take much of a sailing background on her voyage. In 1984, when Aebi was sixteen, just before finishing up with an alternative high-school a year early, her father bought a boat in the UK to sail it back across the Atlantic to New York. Aebi went with him and in a course of a year they sailed from the UK to Spain, Portugal, Morocco, the Canary Islands, the Carrebian, Bermuda and the whole group of Islands, heading back to New York City and arriving there in 1985. They did so as novices.\n\nDuring a year-long trip from England to New York City with her father, Aebi learned the basics of sailing.\n\nIn May 1985, before the circumvention, Aebi took a correspondence course in celestial navigation.\n\nAebi had practically no sailing or navigation experience when she departed on her journey, on 28 May 1985. She was eighteen years old when she departed. Aebi did not have a GPS receiver because civilian GPS receivers were unavailable. Instead, Aebi had a sextant for celestial navigation and a radio direction finder. She used the first leg of her trip from New Jersey to Bermuda as a sea trial of her boat and was plagued by factory defects that may easily have been corrected before departure had they been exposed.\n\nHearing of Aebi's father's round-the-world offer, many sailors accused Ernst Aebi of taking a cavalier attitude toward his daughter's safety, to which he responded: \n\nAebi set out on her circumnavigation in her $40,000 sloop, \"Varuna\", on May 28, 1985, her only other sailing experience being a six-month cruise of the Atlantic she had made with her father, her two sisters and her brother. \"Varuna\" was called so after a Vedic deity associated with sky, waters, justice and truth. The boat was a Taylor 26, a Canadian version of Contessa 26, which cost $40,000. Aebi's arrival back in New York City on November 6, 1987, after a cold November, transit across the Atlantic on Varuna was heralded nationally by the news media.\n\nUpon Aebi's arrival in New york on Varuna, President Reagan sent Aebi a message saying: \n\nIn May 1985, with only few months of limited sailing experience, Aebi sailed away from a New York City dock, bound for Bermuda in her small boat. In November 1987 Aebi returned to New York City.\n\nAebi's journey was sponsored in part by \"Cruising World\" magazine, for which she had written articles.\n\nAfter Aebi's return from her 3 year long voyage, Cruising World magazine commented: \n\nTarzoon, the cat who traveled more than half the world around with Aebi, survived for more than 20 years and died peacefully in its sleep just before she was to undertake a new voyage with her two teenage sons in 2008. She and her sons sailed a newly acquired steel monohull across the Caribbean and South Pacific during 2008. Aebi traded off with the boys' father, her ex-husband Olivier Berner, in Papeete, Tahiti. Olivier and his sons continued their cruising passage from there.\n\nAebi recounts the story of her solo-circumnavigation in her book \"Maiden Voyage\" which became a bestseller in the United States in 1989. The book is a story of teenage angst, self-discovery and adventure. Aebi's story is unusual because she was by many standards, poorly prepared for her voyage, but prevailed through common sense, skills she both learned and honed underway as well as a strong sense of determination.\n\nIn 2005 Aebi published her second book, \"I've Been Around\".\n\nAebi writes monthly columns for several sailing and cruising magazines.\n\nIn September 2017 it was announced that Aebi's memoir \"Maiden Voyage\" will be adapted into a film, with the working title of \"Girl at Sea\". The adaptation was bought by Cohen Media Group in 2017 with the film script written by screenwriter Joel Silverman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5735730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5735730", "title": "The Zoologist", "text": "The Zoologist\n\nThe Zoologist was a monthly natural history magazine established in 1843 by Edward Newman and published in London. Newman acted as editor-in-chief until his death in 1876, when he was succeeded by James Edmund Harting (1876–1896) and William Lucas Distant (1897–1916).\n\nOriginating from an enlargement of \"The Entomologist\", \"The Zoologist\" contained long articles, short notes, comments on current events, and book reviews covering the entire Animal Kingdom throughout the world, until \"The Entomologist\" was separated again in 1864. Initially, half of the space was devoted to birds, rising to two-thirds later.\n\nDue to a shortage of subscribers it was amalgamated with \"British Birds\" in 1916.\n\n\"The Zoologist\" appeared in four series:\n\nThe first editor of \"The Zoologist\" was Edward Newman. He died in 1876. Volume 11 of the second series, the thirty-fourth volume of the journal, was the last volume with which he was connected. \n\nThe third series, starting in 1877 and ending in 1896, was edited by James Edmund Harting.\n\nWilliam Lucas Distant was the editor of the fourth series, from 1878 to 1914 (vol. 18). \n\nThe last two volumes of the fourth series, and of the journal, were edited by Frank Finn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19761886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761886", "title": "Toepler pump", "text": "Toepler pump\n\nA Toepler pump is a form of mercury piston pump, invented by August Toepler in 1850. \n\nThe principle is illustrated in the diagram. When reservoir G is lowered, bulb B and tube T are filled with gas from the enclosure being evacuated (through tube A). When G is raised, mercury rises in tube F and cuts off the gas in B and T at C. This gas is then forced through the mercury in tube D into the atmosphere. The end of tube D is bent upward at E to facilitate collection of gas (or vapor). By alternately raising G, a pumping action results. Clearly tubes F and D must be long enough to support mercury columns corresponding to atmospheric pressure (76 cm at sea level). Instead of using mercury to provide a valving action at C, it is possible to use a glass float valve.\n\n"}
{"id": "53776295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53776295", "title": "Touko Aalto", "text": "Touko Aalto\n\nTouko Juhani Aalto (born 1 April 1984) is a Finnish politician. He was chairman of the Green League from 2017 to 2018. He has represented the electoral district of Central Finland in the Parliament of Finland since 2015.\n\nAalto was born in Savonlinna and later lived in Joensuu. He currently lives in Jyväskylä, Finland. Aalto graduated as Bachelor of Social Sciences from the University of Jyväskylä in 2008. He worked as a cleaner and salesperson before becoming parliamentary assistant of MP Jani Toivola in 2011.\n\nAalto was elected to the City Council of Jyväskylä in 2008 and to the Parliament in 2015. He is the first Green Member of the Parliament from Central Finland. He is currently member of the Finance Committee of the Parliament. In the 2017 municipal elections, Aalto received the most personal votes in Jyväskylä at the same time when the Green League became the largest party of Jyväskylä. On 17 June 2017, Aalto won the Green League leadership election, and became the chairman of the party.\n\nIn September 2018, Aalto took a sick leave due to exhaustion and his duties were temporarily handed to the first deputy chair Maria Ohisalo. In October 2018, he announced that he is resigning from his post, citing depression and fatigue.\n\nAalto was married with Johanna Pietiläinen from 2015 to 2017, when the couple got divorced due to Aalto's affair with a staff member of the Green League. The couple did not have any children.\n"}
{"id": "4565779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565779", "title": "U.S. Green Building Council", "text": "U.S. Green Building Council\n\nThe U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), co-founded by Mike Italiano, David Gottfried and Rick Fedrizzi in 1993, is a private 501(c)3, membership-based non-profit organization that promotes sustainability in building design, construction, and operation. USGBC is best known for its development of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating systems and its annual Greenbuild International Conference and Expo, the world’s largest conference and expo dedicated to green building. USGBC was one of eight national councils that helped found the World Green Building Council (WorldGBC). The current president and CEO is Mahesh Ramanujam who acquired this role in January 2017 after co-founder Rick Fedrizzi. \n\nThrough its partnership with the Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI), USGBC offers a suite of LEED professional credentials that denote expertise in the field of green building. USGBC incentivizes LEED certification by awarding extra certification points to building projects completed with a LEED-certified professional on staff.\n\nThe LEED Green Building Rating System (LEED) is a program that provides third-party verification of green buildings. The LEED rating systems address both a wide variety of buildings types, including commercial buildings, homes, neighborhoods, retail, healthcare, and schools, as well as every phase of the building lifecycle including design, construction, operations and maintenance. Projects may earn one of four levels of LEED certification (Certified, Silver, Gold or Platinum) by achieving a given number of point-based credits within the rating system.\n\nDevelopment of LEED began in 1993, spearheaded by Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) senior scientist Robert K. Watson. As founding chairman of the LEED Steering Committee, Watson led a broad-based consensus process until 2007, bringing together non-profit organizations, government agencies, architects, engineers, developers, builders, product manufacturers and other industry leaders. The LEED initiative was supported by a strong USGBC Board of Directors, chaired by Steven Winter from 1999 to 2003, and very active staff, including Nigel Howard. At that time, USGBC’s Senior Vice President of LEED, Scot Horst, became chair of the LEED Steering Committee before joining USGBC staff. Early LEED committee members also included USGBC co-founder Mike Italiano, architects Bill Reed and Sandy Mendler, builder Gerard Heiber and Myron Kibbe and engineer Richard Bourne. As interest in LEED grew, in 1996, engineers Tom Paladino and Lynn Barker co-chaired the newly formed LEED technical committee.\n\nBeginning with its launch in 2000, LEED has grown from one rating system for new construction to a comprehensive system of nine interrelated rating systems covering all aspects of the development and construction process. Since its inception, LEED has grown from six volunteers on one committee to more than 200 volunteers on nearly 20 committees and nearly 200 professional staff.\n\nUSGBC was awarded the American Architectural Foundation’s Keystone Award in 2012. The National Building Museum presented the USGBC with its 2009 Honor Award (themed \"Visionaries in Sustainability\"), citing the organization's \"exceptional achievement in establishing and integrating green building standards\" in its LEED systems as one of the reasons for selection. The museum also awarded USGBC with its Henry C. Turner Prize in 2005 for its leadership and innovation in the construction industry, specifically for LEED. To date, it is the only organization to have received two awards from the Building Museum.\n\nLEED standards have been criticized for not actually creating energy efficient buildings. In 2013, The Washington Examiner analyzed energy efficiency data of New York City buildings and found that LEED-certified buildings actually performed worse than buildings in general. An analysis by USA Today found that building makers target LEED’s easiest points—those that don’t necessarily increase the energy efficiency of a building.\n\nOn May 23, 2013, Rep. David McKinley introduced the Better Buildings Act of 2014 (H.R. 2126; 113th Congress) into the United States House of Representatives. The bill would amend federal law aimed at improving the energy efficiency of commercial office buildings. The bill would also create a program called \"Tenant Star\" similar to the existing Energy Star program. The U.S. Green Building Council was involved in organizing and supporting this bill.\n\nThe U.S. Green Building Council also supported the Streamlining Energy Efficiency for Schools Act of 2014 (H.R. 4092; 113th Congress), a bill that would require the United States Department of Energy to establish a centralized clearinghouse to disseminate information on federal programs, incentives, and mechanisms for financing energy-efficient retrofits and upgrades at schools. The U.S. Green Building Council said that the bill \"aims to make important improvements to existing federal policies.\"\n\nUSGBC Partners with several organizations on its mission to transform the built environment.\n\nThe Emerald Cities Collaborative is a partner organization with the U.S. Green Building Council.\n\nEducation Partners\nUSGBC Education Partners are the leaders, trusted voices and reputable providers of green building and sustainability education. Some of the top Education Partners from 2016 include:\n\n1. The Green Home Instutute\n2. Green Building Research Institute (GBRI)\n3. ASHRAE\n4. Island Express\n5. Green CE\n6. USGBC Local Chapters\n7. Triple Green\n8. Green Building Education Services\n9. America Training Solutions\n10.The Green Engineer\n11. Seven Group\n12. Everblue Training\n\nCourses created by USGBC Education Partners are listed here\n\nOne can learn more about this program here\n\n"}
{"id": "8236995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8236995", "title": "Vintage amateur radio", "text": "Vintage amateur radio\n\nVintage amateur radio is a subset of amateur radio activity and is considered a form of nostalgia or hobby much like antique car collecting, where enthusiasts collect, restore, preserve, build, and operate amateur radio equipment from bygone years, most notably those using vacuum tube technology.\n\nPopular modes of operation include voice communication using amplitude modulation (AM), and Morse code using continuous wave (CW) radiotelegraphy. Among enthusiasts, there is considerable interest in owning, restoring and operating vintage military and commercial radio equipment, much of it more than 40 years old. Some undertake to construct their own gear, known in ham slang as homebrewing, using vintage parts and designs. A number of amateur radio clubs and organizations sponsor contests, events, and swap meets that cater to this specialized aspect of the hobby.\n\nMany amateurs prefer the relatively precise digital frequency displays and stability of modern, state-of-the-art, microprocessor based amateur radios. Vintage radio enthusiasts contend that modern amateur equipment lacks the aesthetic appeal and \"soul\" of amateur electronic gear from the vacuum tube era. Additionally, many find satisfaction in taking commercially-made amateur equipment from the 1930s-1970s (affectionately called boat anchors by US amateurs because of their large size and weight) and carefully restoring it.\n\nEnthusiasts feel that the spacious electrical and mechanical designs of boat anchor radios are more easily worked on than the miniaturized layouts of modern Japanese gear. Fixing a modern transceiver often involves nothing more than a VLSI chip replacement. Vintage amateur radio devotees enjoy the more primitive experience that boat anchor radios offer, calling it \"real radio\". Enthusiasts claim that boat anchors sound better than modern equipment, saying that the tube audio from vintage gear is \"warmer\" and more aesthetically pleasing. Some hobbyists see vintage radio operation as a valuable asset to help preserve the history and heritage of radio for future generations, and may assist in the restoration and operation of vintage radio equipment for historical exhibits, museums and museum ships.\n\nAmplitude modulation (AM) was once the main voice mode in amateur radio before being superseded by Single-sideband modulation (SSB). But AM has recently become a nostalgic specialty interest on the shortwave ham bands. Vintage radio operation has drawn a wide range of amateur radio enthusiasts from rock star Joe Walsh, WB6ACU, to former Federal Communications Commission attorney Riley Hollingsworth, K4ZDH.\nA majority of \"AM'ers\" stations consist of vintage transmitters and receivers housed in separate cabinets. Some operators have even obtained old AM broadcast transmitters from radio stations that have upgraded their equipment. Others build their equipment from scratch (called homebrewing) using both modern and vintage-era components.\n\nIn the United States, amateur radio AM activity can be found on mediumwave, MF and shortwave, HF frequencies (in MHz) which include \"1.885, 1.930, 1.985, 3.870-3.885, 7.290-7.295, 7.160, 14.286, 14.330, 21.425, and 29.000-29.200,\" and sometimes feature \"special event\" stations using unique call signs. In the United Kingdom, AM activity can be found almost every day on frequencies between \"3.615\" and \"3.625\" MHz. In France, AM activity can be found almost every day in the morning between 6:30 am and 8:00 am on the frequency \"3.550\" MHz. In Australia, AM activity can be found most days on \"7.125\" MHz. In New Zealand, AM nets are conducted on Friday evenings on \"3.850\" MHz at 8:00 pm or 8.30 pm, and on Sunday and Wednesday afternoons on \"7.125\" MHz at 4:00 pm. Conversations (QSO's in ham slang) are typically configured as \"roundtables\" consisting of several participants. Interested newcomers are usually encouraged to switch their modern transceivers to AM mode, introduce themselves, and join the conversation.\n\nVintage operating activity is not limited to the AM mode. Many devotees use their \"classic\" amateur gear from vintage-era American manufacturers like Eico, EF Johnson, National, Heathkit, Hammarlund, Drake, Collins, WRL, Swan, Signal/One, Lafayette and Hallicrafters, to make radiotelegraphy (CW), SSB, FM and RTTY two-way contacts. Although 1930s through 1970s gear is considered \"vintage\", collectors may differ on the cutoff dates.\n\nSome even sub-specialize in military radio collecting and undertake to restore and operate surplus communications equipment, much of it dating back to World War II, from the ubiquitous AN/ARC-5 command sets and US Signal Corps SCR-300 and SCR-536 walkie talkies to exotic gear like the British Paraset, a small espionage transceiver supplied to Resistance forces in France, Belgium and the Netherlands.\nThere is considerable interest in vintage military and commercial radio equipment among EU amateur radio operators, especially gear from British manufacturers such as Marconi, Racal, Eddystone, Pye, and a variety of Russian, German, Canadian, British RAF and British Army equipment, such as the well known Wireless Set No. 19.\n\n\"Glowbugs\" are a related aspect of vintage radio and harken back to the early days of amateur radio, when the majority of hams hand-crafted their own equipment. Smaller in size than \"boat anchors\", \"glowbug\" is a term used by US amateurs to describe a simple home-made tube-type radio set, reminiscent of the shortwave radio-building craze of the 1920s and 1930s. \"Glow\" refers to the glow of the vacuum tubes and \"bug\" to the gear's relatively diminutive size. The Doerle regenerative receiver and Hartley transmitter circuits are considered \"classic\" glowbug designs. Generally, any small, home-built tube-type transmitter or receiver may be referred to as a glowbug. The majority of glowbug transmitters are designed to be used in the CW radiotelegraphy mode.\n\nAs late as the 1960s, glowbugs were part of many beginner ham stations, and the ARRL Radio Amateur Handbook for those years exhibited a number of such simple, tube-based designs. Today, glowbug operators are enjoying a resurgence of interest among QRP enthusiasts and others with a penchant for constructing their own equipment. Many hams are assembling \"glowbug rigs\" on improvised chassis such as tin cakepans and wooden boards, and putting them on the air between 7040 – 7050 kHz and 7114 – 7125 kHz. Amateur radio Glowbug enthusiasts can often be heard communicating on the shortwave bands via CW using Morse code. Popular frequencies to hear glowbug contacts are around 3560 kHz and also 3579.5 kHz, chosen because crystals for this frequency can be salvaged from discarded color TV sets, along with other transmitter components.\n\nMany vintage radio clubs sponsor special events and contests, such as the \"AM QSO Party\" sponsored by the \"Antique Wireless Association\", the \"Heavy Metal Rally\" sponsored by \"Electric Radio Magazine\", and the \"Classic Radio Exchange\". Such operating events are not traditional ham radio contests inasmuch as they are a night of friendly QSO’s using home-built, restored commercial ham, broadcast or military equipment.\n\n\"The Amateur Radio Lighthouse Society\" and \"The AM Radio Network's\" \"Expedition to Thomas Point Shoal Lighthouse\" in Chesapeake Bay, MD commemorated the history of lighthouses with a vintage special event station using the call sign K3L.\n\nBritain's \"Vintage and Military Amateur Radio Society\" (affiliated with the Radio Society of Great Britain) coordinates regular on-air \"nets\" where enthusiasts gather as well as massive technical files for the benefit of members. \"The Surplus Radio Society\", a Dutch society of collectors of old ex-military radio equipment and other nostalgic receivers and transmitters holds weekly radio activity nets every Sunday on 3.575 MHz CW / 3.705 MHz AM and sponsors several flea markets and exchange fairs each year.\n\nThe Canada-based \"The Wireless Set No. 19 Group\", with members virtually worldwide, caters to those who collect, restore and/or operate vintage military communications equipment, with emphasis on the World War II Wireless Set No. 19 radio. Many members are Amateur Radio operators who use the equipment for on-air contacts with others.\n\nThe ARRL publishes \"Vintage Radio\", a collection of articles from QST magazine describing vintage equipment and restoration, and CQ Amateur Radio magazine releases a yearly \"Classic Radio Calendar\" featuring full-color vintage radio images.\n\nThe Antique Wireless Association of Southern Africa is devoted to the \"maintenance and preservation of our amateur heritage\" for enthusiasts of older types of short wave radios and amateur equipment, and maintains a museum exhibit in Johannesburg.\n\nThose accustomed to making repairs on solid state equipment are cautioned that vacuum tube gear contain \"potentially lethal voltages\". The practice of discharging power-supply capacitors and keeping one hand in your pocket when working on powered-up gear are essential safety measures. Some older equipment directly connects the metal chassis to one side of the incoming AC line, a practice which results in the entire unit becoming electrified if the wall plug is inserted backwards. Many older radios, such as vintage receivers, are not safety-fused. Restorers generally replace the AC line cord with a more modern 3 wire plug and install an in-line or chassis mount fuseholder. The use of a common station ground connection to all equipment is encouraged. Those who collect, restore or otherwise use vintage radio equipment should also be aware of possible radioactive substances, PCBs, and asbestos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12260912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12260912", "title": "Yak racing", "text": "Yak racing\n\nYak racing () is a spectator sport held at many traditional festivals of Tibet, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Gilgit-Baltistan, and Mongolia, and can be one of the most entertaining parts of a Tibetan horse festival, in gatherings which integrate popular dances and songs with traditional physical games. For Tibetans in particular it is very special festive occasion.\n\nEach of the competitors, which commonly number 10 or 12, mounts his or her yak, and the yaks run towards the opposite end of the race course in a sprint. Yaks can run surprisingly fast over short distances. The winner is usually given several khata (a traditional Tibetan scarf) as well as a small amount of prize money., Yak racing is also known to be performed in parts of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and in Pamir in Pakistan. The race attains a feverish pitch with the daredevilry of the yak rider and the yak displaying their pluck to reach the target. \n\nYaks and their riders gather at the venue of racing from different villages of the region. Now nearly 150 yaks are entered into the race, as against 50 in the past. The race is a very colourful event with both the yak and its rider dressed in strikingly attractive clothing and decorations; the yak's head is adorned with red tassels, the horns are wrapped in colourful silk cloth, the ears are draped in ribbons and the tail is covered with cloth in fan shaped cloth with Tibetan designs. The riders and herdsmen also turn up wearing very colourful attire suitable for the occasion as lucky symbols so that their yaks could get to win the first place, The race has the same degree of risks as is involved in horse racing. The race track is nowadays of 2000 metres length in open fields and racing yaks would cover this distance in about 8 minutes. The winning yak and its rider get the adulation of the people and are treated with respect.\n\nYak racing became an integral part of the Jyekundo (Yushu in Chinese) Horse Festival in 2006. It was held 20 km south of Jyekundo near the small township of Batang with over 20,000 people in attendance. For the 2007 horse festival all 6 counties of Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture are combining resources and financing together to provide a larger festival, called Khampa Arts Festival (Chin. \"Kangba Yishu Jie\") in the prefecture capital of Jyekundo with an anticipated 40,000 to 50,000 people in attendance. Yak racing is also an integral part of the nineteen-day Darma Festival in Gyangze, and a comic highlight of the Damxung Horse Festival also known as the Dajyur.\n\nYak racing is also a common sport in the farming and stockbreeding areas on the grand Tibetan Plateau of Qingzang altiplano. They hold yak racing events annually to celebrate the good harvest, and they pray for good weather during the coming year. The festival which used to be held on 25 November has been reordered as the Wangguo Festival and is held before the harvest season in August.\n\nIn the northern Khangai Mountains of Mongolia, the traditional Yak Festival is held near the lake Terkhiin Tsagaan Nuur every year, on the first and second days of August. Nomadic culture in the Khangai Mountains is very strong, and the area has one of the highest concentrations of yaks in the world. The event is eagerly anticipated by the community, and the event includes yak racing and showing, wild stallion and yak rodeo riding, milking contests and other traditional Naadam events of horse racing, wrestling and archery.\n\n\n"}
