{"id": "38053660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38053660", "title": "722 redemption", "text": "722 redemption\n\n722 Redemption is a process within the U.S. bankruptcy code under section 11 U.S.C. 722 that allows a debtor to redeem collateral based on the market value of the collateral. The bankruptcy code allows a debtor to pay the retail value of the collateral in a lump sum payment to the creditor in exchange for the lien on the collateral being released. \n\nIn order for 722 redemption to apply the item in question must be personal property intended primarily for personal, family or household use. The interest in the property must be exempted under the bankruptcy code or has to be abandoned by the bankruptcy estate in order for 722 redemption to be used. Once a bankruptcy case is filed a debtor must file a motion in court and obtain a court order to redeem the property. This process is most commonly used to redeem vehicles that are worth less than the outstanding loan on the vehicle. The process allows a debtor to pay the current market value of the vehicle versus the outstanding loan on the vehicle.\n"}
{"id": "3153225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3153225", "title": "Academic tenure", "text": "Academic tenure\n\nA tenured appointment is an indefinite academic appointment that can be terminated only for cause or under extraordinary circumstances, such as financial exigency or program discontinuation. Tenure is a means of defending the principle of academic freedom, which holds that it is beneficial for society in the long run if scholars are free to hold and examine a variety of views.\n\nThe modern conception of tenure in US higher education originated with the American Association of University Professors' (AAUP) 1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure. Jointly formulated and endorsed by the AAUP and the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U), the 1940 Statement is endorsed by over 250 scholarly and higher education organizations and is widely adopted into faculty handbooks and collective bargaining agreements at institutions of higher education throughout the United States. This statement holds that, \"The common good depends upon the free search for truth and its free exposition\" and stresses that academic freedom is essential in teaching and research in this regard.\n\nUnder the tenure systems adopted by many universities and colleges in the United States and Canada, some faculty positions have tenure and some do not. Typical systems (such as the widely adopted \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors) allow only a limited period to establish a record of published research, ability to attract grant funding, academic visibility, teaching excellence, and administrative or community service. They limit the number of years that any employee can remain employed as a non-tenured instructor or professor, compelling the institution to grant tenure to or terminate an individual, with significant advance notice, at the end of a specified time period. Some institutions require promotion to Associate Professor as a condition of tenure. An institution may also offer other academic positions that are not time-limited, with titles such as Lecturer, Adjunct Professor, or Research Professor, but these positions do not carry the possibility of tenure and are said to not be \"tenure track.\" Typically, they have higher teaching loads, lower compensation, little influence within the institution, few if any benefits, and little protection of academic freedom.\n\nAcademic tenure was eliminated in the United Kingdom in 1988. In its place there is the distinction between permanent and temporary contracts for academics. A permanent lecturer in UK universities usually holds an open-ended position that covers teaching, research, and administrative responsibilities.\n\nResearch lecturers (where they are permanent appointments) are the equivalent in rank of lecturers and senior lecturers, but reflect a research-intensive orientation. Research lecturers are common in fields such as medicine, engineering, and biological and physical sciences.\n\nAcademics are divided into two classes. On the one hand, professors (C2/W2 positions in the old/new system of pay grades) are employed as civil servants of the state and hold tenure as a highly safeguarded employment for life. On the other, there is a much bigger group of \"junior staff\" on fixed-term contracts, research grants, fellowships, and part-time jobs. In 2010, 9% of academic staff were professors, 66% were \"junior staff\" (including doctoral candidates on contracts), and 25% were other academic staff in secondary employment. Permanent research, teaching and management positions below professorship as an \"Akademischer Rat\" (a civil service position salaried like high school teachers) have become relatively rare compared to the 1970s and 1980s and are often no longer refilled after a retirement. In order to attain the position of Professor an academic must usually complete a \"Habilitation\" (a kind of broader second PhD thesis), after which she or he is eligible for tenureship. This means that, compared to other countries, academics in Germany obtain tenure at a relatively late age, as on average one becomes an Academic Assistant at the age of 42. In 2002 the \"Juniorprofessur\" position (comparable to an assistant professor in the US, but rarely endowed with a tenure track) was introduced as an alternative to \"Habilitation\". However, the degree of formal equivalence between a \"Habilitation\" and a successfully completed \"Juniorprofessur\" varies across the different states (\"Bundesländer\"), and the informal recognition of having served as a \"Juniorprofessur\" as a replacement for the \"Habilitation\" in the appointment procedures for professorships varies greatly between disciplines.\n\nDue to a university system that guarantees universities relative academic freedom, the position of professor in Germany is stronger and more independent than, for instance, in France. As civil servants, professors have a series of attendant rights and benefits, yet this status is subject to discussion; for example, the question of relating professorial pay to performance rather than merely to age is now being considered.\n\nMany argue, among other things, that the job security granted by tenure is necessary to recruit talented individuals into professorships, because in many fields private industry jobs pay significantly more. \n\nSome have argued that modern tenure systems diminish academic freedom, forcing those seeking tenured positions to profess conformance to the level of mediocrity as those awarding the tenured professorships. For example, according to physicist Lee Smolin, \"...it is practically career suicide for a young theoretical physicist not to join the field of string theory.\" \n\nEconomist Steven Levitt, who recommends the elimination of tenure in order to incentivize higher performance among professors, also points out that a pay increase may be required to compensate faculty members for the lost job security.\n\nSome U.S. states have considered legislation to remove tenure at public universities. \n\nA further criticism of tenure is that it rewards complacency. Once a professor is awarded tenure, he or she may begin putting reduced effort into their job, knowing that their removal is difficult or expensive to the institution.\n"}
{"id": "26141336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26141336", "title": "Aderis Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Aderis Pharmaceuticals\n\nAderis Pharmaceuticals is a privately held pharmaceutical company based in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. It was founded in 1994 to develop and commercialize pharmaceuticals. It is best known for the development of Rotigotine, a dopamine agonist made for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.\n\nOfficial site\n"}
{"id": "21400502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21400502", "title": "Agentic leadership", "text": "Agentic leadership\n\nAgentic leadership derives from the term agency. This leadership style is generally found in the business field by a person who is respected by subordinates. This person demonstrates assertiveness, competitiveness, independence, courageousness, and is masterful in achieving their task at hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33798950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33798950", "title": "Agustín Edwards Ross", "text": "Agustín Edwards Ross\n\nAgustín Edwards Ross (February 17, 1852 – November 1, 1897) was a Chilean businessman and politician. Edwards served as the President of the Senate of Chile from 1893 through 1895. \n"}
{"id": "32602896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32602896", "title": "Alexei Kozlov (businessman)", "text": "Alexei Kozlov (businessman)\n\nAlexei Alexandrovich Kozlov (born 1974) is a prominent Russian businessman in the construction sector, believed by human rights groups to have suffered from a conspiracy to expropriate his property. He is the fourth husband of the journalist Olga Romanova, who has written for \"Novaya Gazeta\" about the ordeals experienced by her husband and herself, including the pressure on her to bribe officials. Her evidence, as well as that of Yana Yakovleva of Business Solidarity, has been used by the Helsinki Commission (see Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe) for a briefing on Russian corruption.\n\nKozlov and Romanova have accused Federation Council member Vladimir Slutsker of conspiring to have Kozlov jailed, and lodged a complaint to that effect with Russia's Prosecutor General, Yury Chaika. Chairman of Korfinans, he was arrested on 30 July 2008 and charged with the fraudulent acquisition of a factory in North West Moscow called 'Artificial Leather'. He was found guilty by the Moscow City Court and is serving a seven-year sentence at a penal colony in the Perm region. He maintains his innocence, and that documentation supports his case, while arguing that he has the evidence of translators and notaries that documents used by the prosecution are forgeries. In July 2011 his prospects of release brightened when the Supreme Court ruled that he had not had a fair trial.\n\nEarlier attempts to appeal his sentence had failed and the official volte face has been attributed by some to the influence of Medvedev, who according to Pavel K. Baev is 'sensitive to the impression that he has lost control over the marauding siloviki and is trying to compensate by making small steps that should prove his commitment to the rule of law.'\n\nKozlov has himself maintained a blog during his incarceration, called the 'Butyrka blog' ()after the Moscow prison where he was initially detained. The blog, which several of those involved in human rights in Russia now contribute to, was awarded a Deutsche Welle prize in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "37268611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37268611", "title": "Amitava Chattopadhyay", "text": "Amitava Chattopadhyay\n\nAmitava Chattopadhyay (born 5 July 1956) is The GlaxoSmithKline Chaired Professor in Corporate Innovation — Professor of Marketing at INSEAD, Fellow of the Institute on Asian Consumer Insights, and Senior Fellow at the \"Ernst & Young Institute for Emerging Market Studies\".\n\nProfessor Chattopadhyay is an authority on Brand management and the author of the award-winning book, The New Emerging Market Multinationals: Four Strategies for Disrupting Markets and Building Brands.\n\nOver the past three decades, he has published more than 60 articles, with the majority appearing in leading international journals such as the \"Journal of Marketing Research\", \"Journal of Consumer Research\", \"Journal of Marketing\", \"Journal of Consumer Psychology\", \"Marketing Science (journal)\", \"Management Science (journal)\", \"International Journal of Research in Marketing\", and \"Long Range Planning\".\n\nProf. Chattopadhyay is on the editorial review boards of the \"Journal of Marketing\", \"Journal of Consumer Psychology\", \"International Journal of Research in Marketing\", \"Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science\", and \"Long Range Planning\". He has been on the Advisory Board of the Association for Consumer Research as well as the Association’s Board of Directors. For his research, he has been the recipient of several awards, including the Robert Ferber Award.\n\nAside from degree programs, Chattopadhyay has taught in executive programs in Europe, North America, Australia, Asia, and Africa. He is on the advisory boards of several companies and a consultant to multinational firms.\n\nAmitava has been a nomad all his life. He studied in five different schools in India and UK, from where he graduated high school from St. Gregory’s Grammar School in Manchester, UK. Along the way he studied at Ballygunge Government High School (Kolkata), Don Bosco School, Park Circus, (Kolkata), Modern School (New Delhi), and in Swansea, UK. \nHe later studied Chemistry at Jadavpur University, a program from which he graduated at the top of his class in 1976, and went on to do his MBA (PGDP) from the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, before heading off for his PhD in Marketing from the University of Florida in Gainesville, USA.\n\nAmitava started his academic career at McGill University in Montreal, Canada. After eight years, the climate really got to him and he moved to the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada. Five years on, INSEAD came calling and Amitava moved to INSEAD in 1999. Amitava started out in Fontainebleau but moved to the Singapore campus in 2005.\n\nAmitava has been interested throughout his career in consumers—what they think, how they feel, and how they respond to the various initiatives of businesses as they try to position themselves in the minds of consumers.\n\nAmitava’s research has looked at how brands try to position themselves in consumers’ minds through advertising, through word-of-mouth, through online platforms, through innovation in their product offerings, and through the use of various perceptual elements such as colors, visual aesthetics, music, and the like. His work on the one hand has investigated how firm initiatives influence consumers’ thoughts and feelings, and how these in turn influence their preferences and purchase decisions. On the other, his research has looked at how businesses can get better at developing the initiatives they target at customers through a variety of interventions in terms of the processes they follow and the tools they apply in generating consumer directed initiatives.\nMost recently, Amitava has been struck by the rise of brand businesses from the emerging markets. International business theory has maintained that emerging market firms make and sell low-cost inexpensive products or supply products and services to branded goods players in the developed markets, who then sell these under their own brand to end consumers around the world. A good example of this model is FoxCom which makes many of the products that are sold under the Apple brand by Apple Inc. However, the new millennium has seen the emergence of branded goods players from the emerging markets who are successfully building global branded businesses. Consider Taiwan’s HTC or China’s Haier and Lenovo, or India’s Tata Motors (think Jaguar Cars and Land Rover) or Infosys, or Turkey's TEMSA or Vitra, or Brazil’s Natura and WEG Industries, or Mexico’s Grupo Modelo (think Corona).\n\nMany, if not most of these names have become household names globally in the short course of a decade. These are but a small handful of the players from among a much larger group of companies that are today pouring out of the emerging markets to build global branded businesses, competing and winning against the entrenched global players from the developed world. \n\"The question that intrigued me is how are these new emerging market competitors, businesses that are relatively speaking small and under-resourced, managing this feat? A feat which they were not supposed to be able to achieve! This is the focus of our book The New Emerging Market Multinationals: Four Strategies for Disrupting Markets and Building Brands. The book was nominated by Strategy + Business as the Best Business Book on strategy for 2012. I continue to be interested in this topic and am developing a series of case studies on Chinese companies as they appeared to be quite distinct when we were doing the research for The New Emerging Market Multinationals.\"\n\nIn 2012, Amitava published his first book with McGraw-Hill, titled The New Emerging Market Multinationals: Four Strategies for Disrupting Markets and Building Brands. The book is co-authored with Prof. Rajeev Batra (S.S. Kresge Professor of Marketing at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan), and Prof. Aysegul Ozsomer (Koç University, Istanbul, Turkey).\n\n\"The New Emerging Market Multinationals\" is based on an in-depth study of 39 emerging market multinationals (EMNCs) that revealed innovative compete-from-below strategies and tactics fueling the meteoric rise of firms from countries such as India, China, Thailand, Turkey and Brazil.\n\nThe book was rated a top Strategy book of 2012 by Strategy+Business:\n\n\"The New Emerging Market Multinationals is an important addition to the strategy bookshelf because it helps us understand the logic behind the rise of companies from emerging markets, including many new powerhouse firms in electronics, vehicles, services, healthcare, and other industries. The book serves a broader purpose as well, and reminds us of eternal strategic questions, such as how to identify, develop, and sustain a competitive advantage in crowded and unforgiving fields.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34677162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34677162", "title": "Andrew Joseph Francis Brown", "text": "Andrew Joseph Francis Brown\n\nAndrew Joseph Francis \"Joe\" Brown (3 October 1907 – 23 August 1986) was a New Zealand mechanic, entrepreneur, entertainment promoter, businessman and racehorse owner. He was born in Naseby, in the Maniototo, New Zealand on 3 October 1907.\n\nIn the 1970 New Year Honours, Brown was awarded the British Empire Medal for services to the community as an entertainment promoter.\n"}
{"id": "4815882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4815882", "title": "Association of Certified Fraud Examiners", "text": "Association of Certified Fraud Examiners\n\nEstablished in 1988, the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE) is a professional organization of fraud examiners. Its activities include producing fraud information, tools and training. The ACFE grants the professional designation of Certified Fraud Examiner. The ACFE is the world's largest anti-fraud organization and is a provider of anti-fraud training and education, with nearly 85,000 members.\n\nThe Certified Fraud Examiner (CFE) credential denotes expertise in fraud prevention, detection and deterrence. CFEs are trained to identify the warning signs and red flags that indicate evidence of fraud and fraud risk. CFEs around the world uncover fraud and implement processes to prevent fraud from occurring.\n\nThe ACFE runs a fraud museum containing exhibits linked to famous frauds, which is open to the public. \"America's Guide to Fraud Prevention\", written by famous con man Steve Comisar, is on display in the ACFE fraud museum. The book is considered a piece of fraud history.\n\nJoseph T. Wells founded the ACFE and sits as its chairman. After graduating from the University of Oklahoma, he served for ten years with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), during which time he investigated former Attorney General John N. Mitchell's involvement in Watergate.\n\nIn addition to his duties as chairman, Wells writes, researches, and lectures to business and professional groups on white-collar crime issues. He has written books and articles on fraud prevention and detection. His writings appear in professional journals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8389168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8389168", "title": "Averch–Johnson effect", "text": "Averch–Johnson effect\n\nThe Averch–Johnson effect is the tendency of regulated companies to engage in excessive amounts of capital accumulation in order to expand the volume of their profits. If companies' profits to capital ratio is regulated at a certain percentage then there is a strong incentive for companies to over-invest in order to increase profits overall. This investment goes beyond any optimal efficiency point for capital that the company may have calculated as higher profit is almost always desired over and above efficiency. \n\nExcessive capital accumulation under rate of return regulation is informally known as 'gold plating'.\n\n\nBody of Knowledge on Infrastructure Regulation: Incentive Features and Other Properties\n"}
{"id": "22860272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22860272", "title": "Business process management", "text": "Business process management\n\nBusiness process management (BPM) is a discipline in operations management in which people use various methods to discover, model, analyze, measure, improve, optimize, and automate business processes. BPM focuses on improving corporate performance by managing business processes. Any combination of methods used to manage a company's business processes is BPM. Processes can be structured and repeatable or unstructured and variable. Though not required, enabling technologies are often used with BPM.\n\nIt can be differentiated from program management in that program management is concerned with managing a group of inter-dependent projects. From another viewpoint, process management includes program management. In project management, process management is the use of a repeatable process to improve the outcome of the project.\n\nKey distinctions between the process management and project management are repeatability and predictability. If the structure and sequence of work is unique, then it is a project. In business process management, sequence of work can vary from instance to instance: there are gateways, conditions; business rules etc. The key is predictability: no matter how many forks in the road, we know all of them in advance, and we understand the conditions for the process to take one route or another. If this condition is met, we are dealing with a process. \n\nAs an approach, BPM sees processes as important assets of an organization that must be understood, managed, and developed to announce and deliver value-added products and services to clients or customers. This approach closely resembles other total quality management or continual improvement process methodologies. ISO 9000 promotes the process approach to managing an organization.\nimproving the effectiveness of a quality management system, to enhance customer satisfaction by meeting customer requirements.\n\nBPM proponents also claim that this approach can be supported, or enabled, through technology. As such, many BPM articles and scholars frequently discuss BPM from one of two viewpoints: people and/or technology.\n\nBPMInstitute defined Business process management as:\n\nThe Workflow Management Coalition, BPM.com and several other sources use the following definition:\n\nThe Association of Business Process Management Professionals defines BPM as:\n\nGartner defines business process management as:\n\nIt is common to confuse BPM with a BPM suite (BPMS). BPM is a professional discipline done by people, whereas a BPMS is a technological suite of tools designed to help the BPM professionals accomplish their goals. BPM should also not be confused with an application or solution developed to support a particular process. Suites and solutions represent ways of automating business processes, but automation is only one aspect of BPM.\n\nThe concept of business process may be as traditional as concepts of tasks, department, production, and outputs, arising from job shop scheduling problems in the early 20th Century. The management and improvement approach , with formal definitions and technical modeling, has been around since the early 1990s (see business process modeling). Note that the term \"business process\" is sometimes used by IT practitioners as synonymous with the management of middleware processes or with integrating application software tasks.\n\nAlthough BPM initially focused on the automation of business processes with the use of information technology, it has since been extended to integrate human-driven processes in which human interaction takes place in series or parallel with the use of technology. For example, workflow management systems can assign individual steps requiring deploying human intuition or judgment to relevant humans and other tasks in a workflow to a relevant automated system.\n\nMore recent variations such as \"human interaction management\" are concerned with the interaction between human workers performing a task.\n\n\nThis brings with it the benefit of being able to simulate changes to business processes based on real-world data (not just on assumed knowledge). Also, the coupling of BPM to industry methodologies allows users to continually streamline and optimize the process to ensure that it is tuned to its market need.\n\nThe compliance aspect in BPM is highly important for governmental organizations. BPM approaches in a governmental context largely focus on operational processes and knowledge representation.\nThere have been many technical studies on operational business processes in the public and private sectors, but researchers rarely take legal compliance activities into account—for instance the legal implementation processes in public-administration bodies.\n\nBusiness process management activities can be arbitrarily grouped into categories such as design, modeling, execution, monitoring, and optimization.\n\nProcess design encompasses both identification of existing processes and the design of \"to-be\" processes. Areas of focus include representation of the process flow, the factors within it, alerts and notifications, escalations, standard operating procedures, service level agreements, and task hand-over mechanisms. Whether or not existing processes are considered, the aim of this step is to ensure a correct and efficient new design.\n\nThe proposed improvement could be in human-to-human, human-to-system or system-to-system workflows, and might target regulatory, market, or competitive challenges faced by the businesses. Existing processes and design of new process for various applications must synchronize and not cause major outage or process interruption.\n\nModeling takes the theoretical design and introduces combinations of variables (e.g., changes in rent or materials costs, which determine how the process might operate under different circumstances).\n\nIt may also involve running \"what-if analysis\"(Conditions-when, if, else) on the processes: \"What if I have 75% of resources to do the same task?\" \"What if I want to do the same job for 80% of the current cost?\".\n\nBusiness process execution is broadly about enacting a discovered and modelled business process. Enacting a business process is done manually or automatically or with a combination of manual and automated business tasks. Manual business processes are human-driven. Automated business processes are software-driven. Business process automation encompasses methods and software deployed for automating business processes.\n\nBusiness process automation is performed and orchestrated at the business process layer or the consumer presentation layer of SOA Reference Architecture. BPM software suites such as BPMS or iBPMS or low-code platforms are positioned at the business process layer. While the emerging robotic process automation software performs business process automation at the presentation layer, therefore is considered non-invasive to and de-coupled from existing application systems.\n\nOne of the ways to automate processes is to develop or purchase an application that executes the required steps of the process; however, in practice, these applications rarely execute all the steps of the process accurately or completely. Another approach is to use a combination of software and human intervention; however this approach is more complex, making the documentation process difficult.\n\nIn response to these problems, companies have developed software that defines the full business process (as developed in the process design activity) in a computer language that a computer can directly execute. Process models can be run through execution engines that automate the processes directly from the model (e.g., calculating a repayment plan for a loan) or, when a step is too complex to automate, Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) provides front-end capability for human input. Compared to either of the previous approaches, directly executing a process definition can be more straightforward and therefore easier to improve. However, automating a process definition requires flexible and comprehensive infrastructure, which typically rules out implementing these systems in a legacy IT environment.\n\nBusiness rules have been used by systems to provide definitions for governing behavior, and a business rule engine can be used to drive process execution and resolution.\n\nMonitoring encompasses the tracking of individual processes, so that information on their state can be easily seen, and statistics on the performance of one or more processes can be provided. An example of this tracking is being able to determine the state of a customer order \"(e.g.\" order arrived, awaiting delivery, invoice paid) so that problems in its operation can be identified and corrected.\n\nIn addition, this information can be used to work with customers and suppliers to improve their connected processes. Examples are the generation of measures on how quickly a customer order is processed or how many orders were processed in the last month. These measures tend to fit into three categories: cycle time, defect rate and productivity.\n\nThe degree of monitoring depends on what information the business wants to evaluate and analyze and how the business wants it monitored, in real-time, near real-time or ad hoc. Here, business activity monitoring (BAM) extends and expands the monitoring tools generally provided by BPMS.\n\nProcess mining is a collection of methods and tools related to process monitoring. The aim of process mining is to analyze event logs extracted through process monitoring and to compare them with an \"\" process model. Process mining allows process analysts to detect discrepancies between the actual process execution and the \"a priori\" model as well as to analyze bottlenecks.\n\nPredictive Business Process Monitoring concerns the application of data mining, machine learning, and other forecasting techniques to predict what is going to happen with running instances of a business process, allowing to make forecasts of future cycle time, compliance issues, etc. Techniques for predictive business process monitoring include Support Vector Machines, Deep Learning approaches, and Random Forest.\n\nProcess optimization includes retrieving process performance information from modeling or monitoring phase; identifying the potential or actual bottlenecks and the potential opportunities for cost savings or other improvements; and then, applying those enhancements in the design of the process. Process mining tools are able to discover critical activities and bottlenecks, creating greater business value.\n\nWhen the process becomes too complex or inefficient, and optimization is not fetching the desired output, it is usually recommended by a company steering committee chaired by the president / CEO to re-engineer the entire process cycle. Business process reengineering (BPR) has been used by organizations to attempt to achieve efficiency and productivity at work.\n\nA market has developed for enterprise software leveraging the business process management concepts to organize and automate processes. The recent convergence of these software from distinct pieces such as business rules engine, business process modelling, business activity monitoring and Human Workflow has given birth to integrated Business Process Management Suites.\nForrester Research, Inc recognize the BPM suite space through three different lenses: \n\nHowever, standalone integration-centric and document-centric offerings have matured into separate, standalone markets.\n\nRapid application development using no-code/low-code principles is becoming an ever prevalent feature of BPMS platforms. RAD enables businesses to deploy applications more quickly and more cost effectively, while also offering improved change and version management. Gartner notes that as businesses embrace these systems, their budgets rely less on maintenance of existing systems and show more investment in growing and transforming them.\n\nWhile the steps can be viewed as a cycle, economic or time constraints are likely to limit the process to only a few iterations. This is often the case when an organization uses the approach for short to medium term objectives rather than trying to transform the organizational culture. True iterations are only possible through the collaborative efforts of process participants. In a majority of organizations, complexity requires enabling technology (see below) to support the process participants in these daily process management challenges.\n\nTo date, many organizations often start a BPM project or program with the objective of optimizing an area that has been identified as an area for improvement.\n\nCurrently, the international standards for the task have limited BPM to the application in the IT sector, and ISO/IEC 15944 covers the operational aspects of the business. However, some corporations with the culture of best practices do use standard operating procedures to regulate their operational process. Other standards are currently being worked upon to assist in BPM implementation (BPMN, enterprise architecture, Business Motivation Model).\n\nBPM is now considered a critical component of operational intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver real-time, actionable information. This real-time information can be acted upon in a variety of ways – alerts can be sent or executive decisions can be made using real-time dashboards. OI solutions use real-time information to take automated action based on pre-defined rules so that security measures and or exception management processes can be initiated.\nBecause \"the size and complexity of daily tasks often requires the use of technology to model efficiently\" when resources in technology became increasingly widespread with general availability to businesses to provide to their staff, \"Many thought BPM as the bridge between Information Technology (IT) and Business.\"\n\nThere are four critical components of a BPM Suite:\n\nBPM also addresses many of the critical IT issues underpinning these business drivers, including:\n\nValidation of BPMS is another technical issue that vendors and users must be aware of, if regulatory compliance is mandatory. The validation task could be performed either by an authenticated third party or by the users themselves. Either way, validation documentation must be generated. The validation document usually can either be published officially or retained by users.\n\nCloud computing business process management is the use of (BPM) tools that are delivered as software services (SaaS) over a network. Cloud BPM business logic is deployed on an application server and the business data resides in cloud storage.\n\nAccording to Gartner, 20% of all the \"shadow business processes\" are supported by BPM cloud platforms. Gartner refers to all the hidden organizational processes that are supported by IT departments as part of legacy business processes such as Excel spreadsheets, routing of emails using rules, phone calls routing, etc. These can, of course also be replaced by other technologies such as workflow and smart form software.\n\nThe benefits of using cloud BPM services include removing the need and cost of maintaining specialized technical skill sets in-house and reducing distractions from an enterprise's main focus. It offers controlled IT budgeting and enables geographical mobility..\n\nThe emerging Internet of things poses a significant challenge to control and manage the flow of information through large numbers of devices. To cope with this, a new direction known as BPM Everywhere shows promise as way of blending traditional process techniques, with additional capabilities to automate the handling of all the independent devices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52030102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52030102", "title": "Cashless society", "text": "Cashless society\n\nA cashless society describes an economic state whereby financial transactions are not conducted with money in the form of physical banknotes or coins, but rather through the transfer of digital information (usually an electronic representation of money) between the transacting parties. Cashless societies have existed from the time when human society came into existence, based on barter and other methods of exchange, and cashless transactions have also become possible in modern times using digital currencies such as bitcoin. However this article discusses and focuses on the term \"cashless society\" in the sense of a move towards, and implications of, a society where cash is replaced by its digital equivalent - in other words, legal tender (money) exists, is recorded, and is exchanged only in electronic digital form.\n\nSuch a concept has been discussed widely, particularly because the world is experiencing a rapid and increasing use of digital methods of recording, managing, and exchanging money in commerce, investment and daily life in many parts of the world, and transactions which would historically have been undertaken with cash are often now undertaken electronically. Some countries now set limits on transactions and transaction values for which non-electronic payment may be legally used.\n\nThe trend towards use of non-cash transactions and settlement began in daily life during the 1990s, when electronic banking became popular. By the 2010s digital payment methods were widespread in many countries, with examples including intermediaries such as PayPal, digital wallet systems operated by companies like Apple, contactless and NFC payments by electronic card or smartphone, and electronic bills and banking, all in widespread use. By the 2010s cash had become actively disfavored in some kinds of transaction which would historically have been very ordinary to pay with physical tender, and larger cash amounts were in some situations treated with suspicion, due to its versatility and ease of use in money laundering and financing of terrorism, and actively prohibited by some suppliers and retailers, to the point of coining the expression of a \"war on cash\". \nBy 2016 in the United Kingdom it was reported that 1 in 7 people no longer carries or uses cash. \nThe 2016 United States User Consumer Survey Study claims that 75% of respondents preferred a credit or debit card as their payment method while only 11% of respondents preferred cash. \nBy 2017, digital payment methods such as Venmo and Square contribute to cashless transactions. \nVenmo allows individuals to make direct payments to other individuals without having cash accessible. \nSquare is an innovation that allows primarily small businesses to receive payments from their clients.\n\nIt has also been described as a highly controversial and at times a \"sinister\" or \"creepy\" move and as a concept connected to negative interest rates, banking transaction tax and a global taxation regime, since such a move would be both potentially useful and potentially socially dangerous, with widespread implications for society. It has potential to be very helpful for central governments and economies, in the context of global negative inflation and quantitative easing, and central control of the money supply. However a loss of cash also transfers complete control of transactions, interest, and individual use of money, and information about these, to the nation state and third party providers, since the individual cannot avoid their money being held in an external system capable of regulation and control. Many countries have regulated, restricted, or banned private digital currencies such as Bitcoin. While supposedly helpful to the global economy and in fighting against crime and terrorism, many concerns have been raised over \"dangerous\" unintended consequences. It would mean that negative interest rates can be fully enforced, and money could be controlled in great detail. For example, some kinds of money might be set to \"expire\" and be worthless if not spent in specific ways or by specific times, or to devalue gradually. It also makes individual savings, and information about individual incomes and transactions, accessible to any party able to access the records - either legitimately (police and tax related) or not (hackers and persons with access to the relevant data), and in this way, it facilitates population surveillance. It also means that groups, individuals, and causes could be deprived of cash by the simple expedient of preventing their access to cashless transaction media. A cashless society is convenient and fast; however, it also increases ignorance to individual spending and vulnerability to fraud. Consumers' ignorance to spending increases as they are less aware when swiping their card to complete a transaction than if they budgeted their money and paid in cash. Their vulnerability to fraud increases because corporations keep record of credit and debit card transactions, but they don't keep a record of cash transactions. The two main types of credit card fraud are when thieves attain the data manually or through a concealed automated program.\n\nGoing digital helps to reduce the hassle of drawing cash or making sure that cash-in-hand is sufficient to make a payment in places where only cash payment is allowed. A digitalized payment system speeds up the process of financial transaction and boosts the efficiency of the transaction. \n\nAs monetary transactions are being made electronically, it increases the transparency as financial transaction are recorded. The cashless system will assist a wide range of institutions and these includes: \n\nRather than conducting costly and periodic surveys and sampling of real-world transactions, real data collected on citizen’s spending can assist in devising and implementing policies that are deduced from actual data. With recorded financial transactions, Government can better track the movement of the money through financial records which enables them to track the black money and illegal transactions taking place in the country. \n\nCashless payments would eliminate the fear of businesses receiving counterfeit money and flush out illegal cash. The risks of storing cash will also be reduced as payments are made digitally. \n\nAs digital payments are made, transactions are kept in records. Cashless payments facilitate the tracking of spending expenditure and record the movement of money. Having recorded transactions, it can help citizens to refine their budget more efficiently. \n\nIn a digitized economy, payment made will be traceable. With traceable transactions, institutions would have potential access to this information. With these digital traces left behind, digital transactions become vulnerable. Such transactions allow businesses a way to build a consumer’s personal profiles based on their spending patterns. The issue of data mining also come into place as countries head towards a cashless society. Cashless transactions leave a record in the database of the company as one make payment, and this information becomes a way for prediction of future events. Through large number of records, data mining then allows the organization to compile a profile of an individual through its' records in the database. \n\nGoing all-digital, these data retrieved from transactions lead to widespread surveillance where individuals can be tracked by both the corporations and state. \nImplementing cashless systems excludes the involvement of certain populations such as the poor, near poor, and elderly. Heading towards a cashless society, citizens that do not hold the power or knowledge of engaging in digital transactions are left behind. To be able to transact using e-payment, it requires one to hold a bank account, which can hold their money. Many of these impoverished people are underbanked. In America, almost one-third of the population lacked the full range of basic financial services. According to FDIC data, among household that earn an annual income of less than $15,000 per year, almost 25.6% of the households do not have a bank account. \n\nFor the older generation, especially retired seniors who are less familiarised with technology and digital applications, it will be hard for them to adopt the digital system. One of such example would be Singapore. As a Smart Nation Initiative, Singapore has been moving towards a cashless system. In Singapore, there are at least half a million elderlies, aged 65 and above, and this accounts for 14.4 percent of the total population in Singapore. Most seniors in Singapore still use cash as their only mode of payment and the integration of cashless payment creates a barrier for them. Not used to digitized payment methods, troubleshooting issues such as managing lost cards or passwords and managing their expenses can create potential troubles for these elderlies. \n\nWhen payment transactions are stored in servers, it increases the risks of unauthorized breachers and hackers. Financial cyber attacks and digital crime also form a greater risks when going cashless. One of such example would be Forever 21, whom released a statement reporting the findings from their investigation of a payment card security incident. In 2017, Forever 21 encountered a breached of their payment system by hackers for 7 months. As the encryption in some of their point-of-sale terminals were not on, it opened up their point-of-sales terminal to malware. The hackers obtain the network access and installed malware that allowed them to retrieve the card details of Forever 21’s consumers. Due to this invasion, the hackers obtained access to consumers’ payment card data for up to seven months - from 3 April 2017 to 18 November 2017. \n\nThese open transactions also create the dangers and security issues where unauthorized access to users’ account occurs and funds are transferred to another account or unauthorized purchases are made by unknown user as they pose as the true user. \n\nEven though cashless society is widely discussed most countries are increasing their currency supply. The table below is taken from the red books for members of the Bank for International Settlements, which includes most of the major fiat currencies of the world. Exceptions are South Africa whose supply of banknotes fluctuates wildly compared to most nations and Sweden which is drastically reducing its currency supply since 2007, The values in the table are \"per capita\" so they already are scaled to population changes. But even the smallest increases of 3% per year are much higher than any possible GDP growth.\n\nA common measure of how close to a \"cashless society\" a country is becoming is some measure of the number of cashless payments or person to person transactions are done in that country. For instance the Nordic countries conduct more cashless transactions than most Europeans.\n\n\"Across the 33 countries covered in the European Payment Cards Yearbook 2015-16, the average number of card payments per capita per year is 88.4. In comparison, the average Dane makes 268.6 card payments each year, the average Finn 243.6, the average Icelander 375.5, the average Norwegian 353.7 and the average Swede 270.2. This makes card payments in the Nordics two-and a-half to four times higher than the European average.\" \n\nBut cash can also function as a \"store of value\" just like commodities like diamonds, gold, silver, and platinum or real estate and antiques. Levels of cash in circulation can widely differ among two countries with similar measure of cashless transactions. For example, Denmark has more than double the amount of cash in circulation as Sweden and a considerably higher percent in the largest denomination banknote, the 1000kr bill.\n\nSouth Korea has made the decision to end coins as legal tender by 2020. So if you conduct an all cash transaction you must forego any change in amounts of less than the value of the smallest banknote, ₩1000, or slightly less than US$1. This change will undoubtedly greatly increase the number of electronic transactions in the country, but the wide circulation of the ₩50,000 bill, the largest denomination banknote, will mean that citizens can still easily use cash as a convenient store of value.\n\nThe largest denomination banknote of any currency is often associated with criminal activity, counterfeiting, or tax evasion. \nThe United Kingdom declared only banknotes of 5 pounds or less were legal tender after WWII because of fear of Nazi counterfeiting. \nIn 1969 in the USA the government declared that banknotes of value over $100 would remain legal tender, but any notes in government hands would be destroyed and that no new notes of those denominations would be printed in the future. Such notes were last printed in the USA in 1945. \nCanada did the same thing with the CAD$1000 banknote in the year 2000. Sweden printed 10,000kr banknotes in 1939 and 1958 but declared them invalid after 31 December 1991. Singapore has recently announced that they would no longer produce the SGD$10,000 banknote. The Euro Area has announced that the €500 denomination banknote would not be included in the next series of banknotes. The ECB has not announced if it intends to reduce the amount of cash in circulation, or to simply replace that value with smaller denominations.\n\n\n, IFoA, 2017"}
{"id": "36930129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36930129", "title": "Claudio Rangel de Oliveira", "text": "Claudio Rangel de Oliveira\n\nCláudio Rangel de Oliveira (Claudio Rangel) (Rio de Janeiro, December 13, 1973) is a Brazilian advertising executive and entrepreneur. He studied Communications at Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing (ESPM) (São Paulo), Web Design at Bellevue College (Seattle, WA) and Photography at University of Washington (Seattle, WA). Currently, he is the President and Executive Creative Director of Range.mbs Group with offices in São Paulo (Brazil), Miami (Florida) and Las Vegas (Nevada). Founded Rangel Photography in 2013 to work with the Casino industry. Last year launch the start-up Dice Content specialized in high quality professional creative content.\n\nClaudio Rangel has been President and Executive Creative Director of Range.mbs Group for 11 years. During his 20+year career he has dedicated himself to the development of art and photography in São Paulo receiving the Academic Cross of FALASP – Academic Federation of Arts and Letters of The State of São Paulo in 2007 for his lifetime contribution in the field of Arts and Advertising.\n\nClaudio’s career began in 1982 in Rio de Janeiro, as a Junior Art Director at INARP Propaganda. At 20 years of age, he was Art Director of DM9 Advertising in Salvador, Bahia, working on the campaign of the former President of Brazil. Soon after he moved to São Paulo and worked for some of the most prestigious international agencies in the city, starting at MPM Propaganda, creating major campaigns for Fiat Motors and the City of São Paulo.\n\nAt 26 years old, he became creative director of FG Publicidade in São Paulo where his work was selected for the short list (10 best in the world) at Cannes Lions International award with the campaign “Silent” for Consul Air Conditioners. Also worked at international agencies such as, Wunderman Cato Johnson, Young & Rubicam, and Neogama BBH.\n\nFrom 1993 to 97 he worked at Wunderman Cato Johnson in São Paulo and Miami offices. In 1997, he came back to Brazil where he was hired at Leo Burnett where soon after he was selected to represent the Brazilian office in the international elite team called “Magnificent Seven” who were responsible for creating campaigns for major international clients like Coca-Cola, Johnnie Walker, Kellogg's and Fiat. For Fiat, Claudio also created the new worldwide logo. Hired by Bozell Worldwide in 1998, he created the campaign to launch in the Brazilian Market the new Dodge Dakota, and several other cars from Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge (The Chrysler Group) in the same year he was hired to work for the most awarded agency in South America and one of the leading in the world, W/BRASIL (now W/McCann).\n\nIn 2000 after leaving W/BRASIL he worked briefly for Neogama BBH (Bartle Bogle Hegarty). Also in 2000 he was hired to work as a Creative Director at Carillo, Pastore Euro RSCG to launch the new Peugeot Cars (307, 407, 507’s). In 2001 he left the Euro RSCG to open his own agency RANGEL.MBS COMUNICAÇÕES, where he quickly acquired important accounts such as Hertz Car Rental, Marriott and Renaissance Hotels, Editora Abril, Viagem & Turismo Magazine, National Geographic Magazine, Umbra, Silit, Simple Human, Messe Frankfurt.\n\nIn 2007 he opened the first international office (Range.mbs Inc) located in Miami, Florida in partnership with Beber Silverstein Group. In the U.S. he continued his work for Hertz and acquired more accounts such as Ruekert Pharmaceutical, GRG Realty, Timberlake Church, BR Advisors, ETC Kitchen Products and Mast General Construction. In 2011 he was hired by Caesars Entertainment (a worldwide leader in gaming and entertainment) to be the Lead Group Graphic Designer at the Las Vegas Corporate Office.\n\nAt Caesars Entertainment, Claudio was responsible for launching the new Total Rewards, the biggest entertainment/casino loyalty program in the world, with a large national campaign with simultaneous launches in Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, and New Orleans. He also redesigned the Rio All-Suites Hotel & Casino logo. Claudio also created their local campaign and was subsequently awarded with a bronze medal at the Addy Awards.\n\nClaudio also coordinated the launch of the new Caesars Palace Campaign and directed the creative to redesign all the Caesars Palace internal materials. Later in 2011 opened the Las Vegas office of RANGEL.MBS (RANGEL.MBS LLC) to work with Caesars Entertainment and its brands: Caesars Palace, Harrah's Casinos, Imperial Palace, Bill's Gamblin' Hall, Paris Las Vegas, Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino, Bally's, Horseshoe Casinos, Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino and Total Rewards. For Total Rewards he coordinated the creative for nationwide launch. Concerts in 5 Major cities, with a countdown clock on the Nasdaq Building. His work for Caesars Entertainment had a quick response winning several awards in the first 6 months of work for them. In 2012 he opened Rangel Photography, a new enterprise focused in the casino side of the photography business to complement the array of options offered by his group to its clients.\n\nClaudio Rangel and Rangel.mbs worked in support of the City São Paulo Social Assistant Secretary in a project (PROJETO OFICINA BORACEA) giving trash recyclers the opportunity to be included in the professional market, teaching them new techniques of recycling, how to trade and commercialize their “merchandise” and also how they use their profit to change their lives. Claudio used his advertising skills to create an ad campaigns to bring awareness to the city that they could invest in this project that would ultimately help to lower the gap between economic classes and create a better future for those in need.\n\nIn addition to being a recognized award-winning advertising professional, Claudio Rangel, in his unwavering dedication to social causes in his home country and in the United States, also participates in programs such as Feed the Children and Compassion International.\n\nGold Medal – Parthenon Art & Culture Center 4th Exhibition – 1985\n\nSilver Medal – III International Exhibit “ABD” Brazilian Association of Design & Visual Arts - 1985\n\nSilver Medal – Parthenon Art & Culture Center 1st Exhibition – 1986\n\nGold Prêmio Colunistas - Tribuna da Bahia campaign – 1988\n\nShort List Cannes Lion - Campaign “Silent” for Consul Air Conditioners - 1991\n\nGold Lamp - ABP Festival - Campaign “Que barato” for Lojas Brasileiras – 1993\n\nGold Lamp - ABP Festival - Campaign “Banquinho Turma da Mônica for Banco Nacional” – 1994\n\nBronze Award - Clube de Criação de São Paulo – New Year’s at Leo Burnett Campaign – 1997\n\nChosen to be part of the “Magnificent Seven” Leo Burnett’s elite team for international campaigns – 1997\n\nHonored with the Academic Cross of “FALASP” Academic Federation of Arts and Letters of The State of São Paulo – For the lifetime contribution to the Art and Advertising Industry – 2007\n\nGold Medal – Sherpie Awards - Best Multi Property Branding Initiative awards – Campaign “ The Showgirls are angry” for Caesars Entertainment – 2011\n\nGold Medal – Sherpie Awards – Best Use of Geo Locations Platform – Campaign “The Great Race to Rewards” for Caesars Entertainment – 2011\n\nBronze Medal – Addy Award – Campaign “Rio Locals” for Caesars Entertainment – 2012\n\nBronze Medal – Addy Award – Campaign “Foundation Room - Atlantic City” for Caesars Entertainment – 2012\n\nStar Member of “CCSP” Creative Club of São Paulo since 1995\n\nMember of “PPA” Professional Photographers of America\n\nMember of “NAPP” National Association of Photoshop Professionals\n\n1985 – 4th Exhibition of Arts PARTHENON Art & Culture Center Rio de Janeiro\n\n1985 – III International Exhibit “ABD” Brazilian Association of Design & Visual Arts\n\n1986 - II Exhibition “AAPP” – Association of Professional Artist of Rio de Janeiro\n\n1986 – 1st Landscapes Exhibitions PARTHENON Art & Culture Center Rio de Janeiro\n\n2010 – 4th Photography Exhibition of “UW” University of Washington\n\n"}
{"id": "1625481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625481", "title": "Crystal bar process", "text": "Crystal bar process\n\nThe crystal bar process (also known as iodide process or the van Arkel–de Boer process) was developed by Anton Eduard van Arkel and Jan Hendrik de Boer in 1925. This process was the first industrial process for the commercial production of pure ductile metallic zirconium. It is used in the production of small quantities of ultra-pure titanium and zirconium. It primarily involves the formation of the metal iodides and their subsequent decomposition to yield pure metal. This process was superseded commercially by the Kroll process.\n\nAs seen in the diagram below, impure titanium, zirconium, hafnium, vanadium, thorium or protactinium is heated in an evacuated vessel with a halogen at 50–250 °C. The patent specifically involved the intermediacy of TiI and ZrI, which were volatilized (leaving impurities as solid). At atmospheric pressure TiI melts at 150 °C and boils at 377 °C, while ZrI melts at 499 °C and boils at 600 °C. The boiling points are lower at reduced pressure. The gaseous metal tetraiodide is decomposed on a white hot tungsten filament (1400 °C). As more metal is deposited the filament conducts better and thus a greater electric current is required to maintain the temperature of the filament. The process can be performed in the span of several hours or several weeks, depending on the particular setup.\n\nGenerally, the crystal bar process can be performed using any number of metals using whichever halogen or combination of halogens is most appropriate for that sort of transport mechanism, based on the reactivities involved. The only metals it has been used to purify on an industrial scale are titanium, zirconium and hafnium, and in fact is still in use today on a much smaller scale for special purity needs.\n\nSeveral metals purified via this process:\n"}
{"id": "42035548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42035548", "title": "Decentralized autonomous organization", "text": "Decentralized autonomous organization\n\nA decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), sometimes labeled a decentralized autonomous corporation (DAC), is an organization represented by rules encoded as a computer program that is transparent, controlled by shareholders and not influenced by a central government. A DAO's financial transaction record and program rules are maintained on a blockchain. The precise legal status of this type of business organization is unclear.\n\nA well-known example, intended for venture capital funding, was The DAO, which launched with $150 million in crowdfunding in June 2016, and was immediately hacked and drained of in cryptocurrency. This hack was reversed in the following weeks, and the money restored, via a hard fork of the Ethereum blockchain. This bailout was made possible by the Ethereum miners and clients switching to the new fork.\n\nDecentralized autonomous organizations are typified by the use of blockchain technology to provide a secure digital ledger to track financial interactions across the internet, hardened against forgery by trusted timestamping and dissemination of a distributed database. This approach eliminates the need to involve a mutually acceptable trusted third party in a financial transaction, thus simplifying the transaction. The costs of a blockchain-enabled transaction and of the associated data reporting may be substantially offset by the elimination of both the trusted third party and of the need for repetitive recording of contract exchanges in different records. For example, the blockchain data could, in principle and if regulatory structures permit it, replace public documents such as deeds and titles. In theory, a blockchain approach allows multiple cloud computing users to enter a loosely coupled peer-to-peer smart contract collaboration.\n\nDaniel Larimer first proposed the concept of a \"Decentralized Organized Company\" in an article published on September 7, 2013 and implemented in Bitshares in 2014.\n\nVitalik Buterin proposed that after a DAO was launched, it might be organized to run without human managerial interactivity, provided the smart contracts were supported by a Turing complete platform. Ethereum, built on a blockchain and launched in 2015, has been described as meeting that Turing threshold, thus enabling such DAOs. Decentralized autonomous organizations aim to be open platforms where individuals control their identities and their personal data.\n\nThe first DAO's were Dash and Bitshares. Others are The DAO and Digix.\n\nIt can be difficult for a DAO to retain an attorney, or enter any kind of written contract because nobody in the company is interested in putting their personal name on agreements.\n\nShareholder participation in DAOs can be problematic. For example, \"BitShares\" has seen a lack of voting participation, because it takes time and energy to consider proposals.\n\nThe precise legal status of this type of business organization is unclear; some similar approaches have been regarded by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as illegal offers of unregistered securities. Although unclear, a DAO may functionally be a corporation without legal status as a corporation: a general partnership. This means potentially unlimited legal liability for participants, even if the smart contract code or the DAO's promoters say otherwise. Known participants, or those at the interface between a DAO and regulated financial systems, may be targets for regulatory enforcement or civil actions.\n\nThe code of a given DAO will be difficult to alter once the system is up and running, including bug fixes that would be otherwise trivial in centralised code. Corrections for a DAO would require writing new code and agreement to migrate all the funds. Although the code is visible to all, it is hard to repair, thus leaving known security holes open to exploitation unless a moratorium is called to enable bug fixing.\n\nIn 2016, a specific DAO, \"The DAO\", set a record for the largest crowdfunding campaign to date. Researchers pointed out multiple issues in the code of The DAO. The operational procedure for The DAO allowed investors to withdraw at will any money that had not yet been committed to a project; the funds could thus deplete quickly. Although safeguards aimed to prevent gaming the voting of shareholders to win investments, there were a \"number of security vulnerabilities\". These enabled an attempted large withdrawal of funds from The DAO to be initiated in mid-June 2016. On the 20th of July 2016, the Ethereum community arrived at a consensus decision to hard fork the Ethereum blockchain to bail out the original contract.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26400029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26400029", "title": "Discoverability", "text": "Discoverability\n\nDiscoverability is the degree to which of something, especially a piece of content or information, can be found in a search of a file, database, or other information system. Discoverability is a concern in library and information science, many aspects of digital media, software and web development, and in marketing, since something (e.g., a website, product, service, etc.) cannot be used if people cannot find it or do not understand what it can be used for. Metadata, or \"information about information,\" such as a book's title, a product's description, or a website's keywords, affects how discoverable something is on a database or online. In the 2010s, adding metadata to a product that is available online can make it easier for end users to find the product. For example, if a song file is made available online, making the title, name of the band, genre, year of release, and other pertinent information available in connection with this song file will make it easier for users to find this song file. Organizing information by putting it into alphabetical order or including it in a search engine is an example of how to improve discoverability. Discoverability is related to, but different from, accessibility and usability, other qualities that affect the usefulness of a piece of information.\nThe concept of \"discoverability\" in an information science and online context is a loose borrowing from the concept of the similar name in the legal profession. In law, \"discovery\" is a pre-trial procedure in a lawsuit in which each party, through the law of civil procedure, can obtain evidence from the other party or parties by means of discovery devices such as a request for answers to interrogatories, request for production of documents, request for admissions and depositions. Discovery can be obtained from non-parties using subpoenas. When a discovery request is objected to, the requesting party may seek the assistance of the court by filing a motion to compel discovery.\n\nThe usability of any piece of information directly relates to how discoverable it is, either in a \"walled garden\" database or on the open Internet. The quality of information available on this database or on the Internet depends upon the quality of the meta-information about each item, product, or service. In the case of a service, because of the emphasis placed on service reusability, opportunities should exist for reuse of this service. However, reuse is only possible if information is discoverable in the first place. To make items, products, and services discoverable, the following set of activities need to be performed:\n\n\nRegarding number 2, storing the information in a searchable repository: while technically a human-searchable repository, such as a printed paper list would qualify, in the 2010s, \"searchable repository\" is usually taken to mean a computer-searchable repository, such as a database that a human user can search using some type of search engine or \"find\" feature. Number 3 further supports this analysis of number 2, because while reading through a printed paper list by hand might be feasible in a theoretical sense, it is not time and cost-efficient in comparison with computer-based searching.\n\nApart from increasing the reuse potential of the services, discoverability is also required to avoid development of solution logic that is already contained in an existing service. To design services that are not only discoverable but also provide interpretable information about their capabilities, the service discoverability principle provides guidelines that could be applied during the service-oriented analysis phase of the service delivery process.\n\nIn relation to audiovisual content, according to the meaning given by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) for the purpose of its 2016 Discoverability Summit, discoverability can be summed up to the intrinsic ability of given content to \"stand out of the lot\", or to position itself so as to be easily found and discovered. A piece of audiovisual content can be a movie, a TV series, music, a book (eBook), an audio book or podcast. When audiovisual content such as a digital file for a TV show, movie, or song, is made available online, if the content is \"tagged\" with identifying information such as the names of the key artists (e.g., actors, directors and screenwriters for TV shows and movies; singers, musicians and record producers for songs) and the genres (e.g., for movies genres such as action, drama or comedy; for songs, genres such as heavy metal music, hip hop music, etc.), this makes it easier for end users to find the content they are interested in.\n\nIn the 2010s, when users interact with online content, algorithms typically determine what types of content the user is interested in, and then a computer program suggests \"more like this\", which is other content that the user may be interested in. Different websites and systems have different algorithms, but one approach, used by Amazon for its online store, is to indicate to a user, once the user searches for or looks at content/product \"x\" that \"other users who purchased \"x\" also purchased the following items\". This example is oriented around online purchasing behaviour, but an algorithm could also be programmed to provide suggestions based on other factors (e.g., searching, viewing, etc.). \n\nIn the 2010s, discoverability is typically referred to in connection with search engines. A highly \"discoverable\" piece of content (e.g., a certain movie) would be a movie that appears at the top, or near the top of a user's search results. A related concept is the role of \"recommendation engines\", which are computer programs which give a user recommendations based on his/her online activity. In the 2010s, \"discoverabilty\" applies to desktop and laptop computers and do the increasingly widening range of devices that can access the Internet, including various console video game systems and mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones. When organizations make an effort to promote certain content (e.g., a TV show, film, song, or video game), they can use \"traditional marketing\" (billboards, TV ads, radio ads) and digital ads (pop-up ads, pre-roll ads, etc.), or a mix of traditional and digital marketing.\n\nEven before the user’s intervention by searching for a certain content or type of content, discoverability is the prime factor which contributes to whether a piece of audiovisual content will be likely to be found in the various digital modes of content consumption. As of 2017, modes of searching include looking on Netflix for movies, Spotify for music, Audible for audio books, etc., although the concept can also more generally be applied to content found on Twitter, Tumblr, Instagram and other websites. It involves more than a content’s mere presence on a given platform; it can involve associating this content with \"keywords\" (tags), search algorithms, positioning within different categories, metadata, etc. Thus, discoverability enables as much as it promotes. For audiovisual content broadcast or streamed on digital media using the Internet, discoverability includes the underlying concepts of information science and programming architecture, which are at the very foundation of the search for a specific product, information or content.\n\nWithin a specific webpage or software application (\"app\"), the discoverability of a feature, content or link depends on a range of factors, including the size, colour, highlighting features, and position within the page. When colour is used to communicate the importance of a feature or link, designers typically use other elements as well, such as shadows or bolding, for individuals who cannot see certain colours. Just as traditional paper printing created other physical locations that stood out, such as being \"above the fold\" of a newspaper versus \"below the fold\", a web page or app's screenview may have certain locations that give features additional visibility to users, such as being right at the bottom of the web page or screen. \n\nThe positional advantages or disadvantages of various locations depend on different cultures and languages (e.g., left to right vs. right to left). Some locations have become established, such as having toolbars at the top of a screen or webpage. Some designers have argued that commonly used features (e.g., a print button) should be much more visually prominent than very rarely used features. Some features cannot be seen, but there is a convention that if the user places the mouse cursor in a certain area, then a toolbar or function option will become visible. In general, because of the smaller screen of mobile devices, controls are often not placed right in the centre of the screen, because that is where the user views content or text.\n\nSome organizations try to increase the discoverability of a certain feature by adding animation, such as a moving \"click here\" icon. As of 2017, the addition of motion sensors and geotracking to mobile devices has made webpage design for discoverability more complex, because smartphones and tablets are typically capable of having many more inputs from the user than a 1980s era desktop, including \"swiping\" the touchscreen, touching images on the screen, or tilting the device. One of the challenges in webpage and app design is that the degree of sophistication and experience of users with navigating in the webpage or app environment varies a great deal, from individuals who are new to using these applications at one extreme to experienced computer users.\n\nFor items that are searched for online, the goal of discoverability is to be at or near the top of the search results. Organizations may make efforts to make it more likely that \"their\" content or webpages are at the top, or close to the top, of search results; these approaches are often collectively called search engine optimization (SEO). Note that when an organization takes action to increase the SEO of its website, this does not normally involve changes to the search engine itself; rather, it involves adding metadata tags and original content, among other strategies, to increase the \"visibility\" of the website to search engine algorithms.\n\nIn a service delivery context, the application of this principle requires collecting information about the service during the service analysis phase as during this phase; maximum information is available about the service’s functional context and the capabilities of the service. At this stage, the domain knowledge of the business experts could also be enlisted to document meta-data about the service. In the service-oriented design phase, the already gathered meta-data could be made part of the service contract. The OASIS SOA-RM standard specifies \"service description\" as an artifact that represents service meta-data.\n\nTo make the service meta-data accessible to interested parties, it must be centrally accessible. This could either be done by publishing the service-meta to a dedicated 'service registry' or by simply placing this information in a 'shared directory'. In case of a 'service registry', the repository can also be used to include QoS, SLA and the current state of a service.\n\nThis is the basic type of meta-information that expresses the functional context of the service and the details about the product, content, or service’s capabilities. The application of the standardized service contract principle helps to create the basic functional meta-data in a consistent manner. The same standardization should be applied when the same meta-information is being outside the technical contract of the service e.g. when publishing information to a service registry.\n\nFor general items, the data that might be used to categorize them may include:\n\nFor services, to know about the service behavior and its limitations, and about the user's service experience, all of this information needs to be documented within the service registry. This way potential consumers can use this meta-information by comparing it against their performance requirements.\n\nThe effective application of this design principle requires that the meta-information recorded against each service needs to be consistent and meaningful. This is only possible if organization-wide standards exist that enforce service developers to record the required meta-data in a consistent way. The information recorded as the meta-data for the service needs to be presented in a way so that both technical and non-technical IT experts can understand the purpose and the capabilities of the service, as an evaluation of the service may be required by the business people before the service is authorized to be used.\n\nThis principle is best applied during the service-oriented analysis phase as during this time, all the details about the service’s purpose and functionality are available. Although most of the service design principles support each other in a positive manner, however, in case of service abstraction and service discoverability principle, there exists an inversely proportional relationship. This is because as more and more details about the service are hidden away from the service consumers, less discoverable information is available for discovering the service. This could be addressed by carefully recording the service meta-information so that the inner workings of the service are not documented within this meta-information.\nIn the online economy, sophisticated computer programs called algorithms analyse the ways that end users search for, access and use different content or products online. Thus, not only is metadata created regarding the content or product (e.g., the author and genre of an e-book), but also data is generated about specific human users' interaction with this content. If an organization such as a social media website has a user profile for a given person, indicating demographic information (e.g., age, gender, location of residence, employment status, education, etc.), then this social media website can collect and analyse information about tendencies of a given user or a given subcategory of users. When social media websites are collecting data about human users' online activities and preferences, this may raise potential privacy concerns. \n\nAlgorithms have been called “black boxes”, because the factors used by the leading websites in their algorithms are typically proprietary information which is not released to the public. While a number of search engine optimization (SEO) firms offer the services of attempting to increase the ranking of a client’s web content or website, these SEO firms do not typically know the exact algorithms used by Google and Facebook. Ghosh et al found that algorithm \"web crawler\"s can only access 26% of new online content \"...by recrawling a constant fraction of the entire web\". \n\nIn the 2010s, one concern raised with the increasing role of algorithms on search engines and databases, is that once a specific person indicates a preference for a certain type of content or product, the computer algorithm may increasingly focus on making recommendations in this type of content. To give a practical example, if a person searches for comedy movies online, a search engine algorithm may start mainly recommending comedies to this user, and not showing him or her the range of other films (e.g., drama, documentary, etc.). On the positive side, if this person only likes comedy films, then this restricted \"filter\" will reduce the information load of scanning through vast numbers of films. However, various cultural stakeholders have raised concerns about how these filter algorithms may restrict the diversity of material that is discoverable to users. Concerns about the dangers of \"filter bubbles\" have been raised in regards to online news services, which provide types of news, news sources, or topics to a user based on his/her previous online activities. Thus a person who has previously searched for Fox TV content will mainly be shown more Fox TV content and a person who has previously searched for PBS content will be shown more PBS search results, and so on. This could lead to news readers becoming only aware of a certain news source's viewpoints.\n\nThe search behaviour of video content viewers has changed a great deal since the widespread popularity of video sharing websites and video streaming. Whereas a typical TV show consumer of the 1980s would read a print edition of \"TV Guide\" to find out what shows were on, or click from channel to channel (\"channel surfing\") to see if any shows appealed to them, in the 2010s, video content consumers are increasingly watching on screens (either smart TVs, tablet computer screens or smartphones) that have a computerized search function and often automated algorithm-created suggestions for the viewer. With this search function, a user can enter the name of a TV show, producer, actor, screenwriter or genre to help them find content of interest to them. If the user is searching on a search engine on a device (laptop, tablet computer, smartphone) they own, the device may transmit information about the user's preferences and previous online searches to the website. Continuing with this 1980s to 2010s comparison, in the 1980s, the type or brand of television a user was watching on did not affect his/her viewing habits. However, a person searching for TV shows in the 2010s on different brands of computerized smart TVs will probably get different search results for the same search term.\n\nFor organizations that are trying to get maximal user uptake of their product, content or service online, discoverability has become an important goal. However, achieving discovery does not automatically translate into market success. For example, if the hypothetical online game \"xyz\" is easily discoverable, but it will not function on most mobile devices, then this video game will not perform well in the mobile game market, despite it being at the top of search results. As well, even if the product functions, that is it runs or plays properly, as well, users may not like the product. \n\nIn the case that a user does like a certain online product or service, the discoverability has to be repeatable. If the user cannot find the product or service on a subsequent search, she or he may no longer look for this product/service, and instead shift to a substitute that is easily and reliably findable. It is not enough to make the online product or service discoverable for only a short period, unless the goal is only to create “viral” content as part of a short-term marketing campaign.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21686288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21686288", "title": "Dominique Xardel", "text": "Dominique Xardel\n\nDominique Xardel is an author and marketing professor in France.\n\nFrom 1978-1988, Xardel was director of ESSEC Business School He was Editor in Chief of the \"Harvard L'Expansion\", the French version of the \"Harvard Business Review\". As of 2005, he was Associate Dean for International Affairs at ESSEC. He holds a Doctorate degree from the University of Paris IX-Dauphine. Xardel worked for businesses such as Unilever and Time Inc before joining ESSEC, and he has taught at Geneva Business School in Switzerland. Xardel has authored various books on marketing\n\n"}
{"id": "9736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9736", "title": "Empire State Building", "text": "Empire State Building\n\nThe Empire State Building is a 102-story Art Deco skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Designed by Shreve, Lamb & Harmon and completed in 1931, the building has a roof height of and stands a total of tall, including its antenna. Its name is derived from \"Empire State\", the nickname of New York, which is of unknown origin. the building is the 5th-tallest completed skyscraper in the United States and the 28th-tallest in the world. It is also the 6th-tallest freestanding structure in the Americas.\n\nThe site of the Empire State Building, located on the west side of Fifth Avenue between West 33rd and 34th Streets, was originally part of an early 18th century farm. In the late 1820s, it came into the possession of the prominent Astor family, with John Jacob Astor's descendants building the Waldorf–Astoria Hotel on the site in the 1890s. The hotel remained in operation until the late 1920s, when it was sold to the Bethlehem Engineering Corporation in 1928 for an estimated $20m. Following this sale, the property changed hands once more, coming under the ownership of Empire State Inc., a business venture that included famous businessman and former General Motors executive, John J. Raskob, members of the du Pont family, and former New York governor Al Smith, who was tasked with heading the corporation. The original design of the Empire State Building was for a 50-story office building. However, after fifteen revisions, the final design was for a 86-story 1,250-foot building, with an airship mast on top. This ensured it would be the world's tallest building, beating the Chrysler Building and 40 Wall Street, two other Manhattan skyscrapers under construction at the time that were also vying for that distinction.\n\nDemolition of the Waldorf–Astoria began in October 1929, and the foundation of the Empire State Building was excavated before demolition was even complete. Construction on the building itself started on March 17, 1930, with an average construction rate of four and a half floors per week. A well-coordinated schedule meant that the 86 stories were topped out on September 19, six months after construction started, and the mast was completed by November 21. From that point, interior work proceeded at a quick pace, and it was opened on May 1, 1931, thirteen and a half months after the first steel beam was erected. In a ceremony held in Washington D.C., President Herbert Hoover officially opened the Empire State Building to the public, remotely pressing a button that illuminated the building’s iconic lights. Despite the publicity surrounding the building's construction, its owners failed to make a profit until the early 1950s. However, since its opening, the building's Art Deco architecture and open-air observation deck has made it a popular tourist attraction, with around 4 million visitors from around the world visiting the building's 86th and 102nd floor observatories every year. Since the mid-2010s, the Empire State Building has been undergoing improvements to improve access to its observation decks.\n\nThe Empire State Building stood as the world's tallest building for nearly 40 years until the completion of the World Trade Center's North Tower in Lower Manhattan in late 1970. Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, it was again the tallest building in New York until the new One World Trade Center was completed in April 2012.\n\nThe Empire State Building is an American cultural icon and has been featured in more than 250 TV shows and movies since the film \"King Kong\" was released in 1933. A symbol of New York City, the tower has been named as one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. The Empire State Building and its ground-floor interior have been designated as a city landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and were confirmed as such by the New York City Board of Estimate. It was also designated a National Historic Landmark in 1986, and was ranked number one on the American Institute of Architects' List of America's Favorite Architecture in 2007.\n\nThe Empire State Building is located on the west side of Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, between 33rd and 34th Streets. The tenants' main entrance is located at 350 Fifth Avenue, though in August 2018, a new visitor's entrance opened at 20 West 34th Street. Although physically located in South Midtown, a mixed residential and commercial area, the building is so large that it was assigned its own ZIP Code, 10118; it is one of 43 buildings in New York City that has its own ZIP Code. The area to the south and west features other major Manhattan landmarks as well, including Macy's at Herald Square on Sixth Avenue and 34th Street, Koreatown on 32nd Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, Penn Station and Madison Square Garden on Seventh Avenue between 32nd and 34th Streets, and the Flower District on 28th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues. The nearest New York City Subway stations are 34th Street–Herald Square at Sixth Avenue and Broadway, one block west, and 33rd Street at Park Avenue, two blocks east. There is also a PATH station at 33rd Street and Sixth Avenue.\n\nTo the east of the Empire State Building is Murray Hill, a neighborhood with a mix of residential, commercial, and entertainment. One block east of the Empire State Building, on Madison Avenue at 34th Street, is the New York Public Library's Science, Industry and Business Library, which is located on the same block as the City University of New York's Graduate Center.\n\nThe tract was originally part of Mary and John Murray's farm on Murray Hill. The earliest recorded major action on the site was during the American Revolutionary War, when General George Washington's troops were retreating from the British following the Battle of Kip's Bay. In 1799, John Thompson (or Thomson; accounts vary) bought a tract of land roughly bounded by Madison Avenue, 36th Street, Sixth Avenue, and 33rd Street, immediately north of the Caspar Samler farm, for 482 British pounds (roughly US$2400 at the time, or £ today). Thompson was said to have sold the farm to Charles Lawton for $10,000 (equal to $ today) on September 24, 1825, although details of this sale are unclear, as details of the deed that certified the sale were later lost. In 1826, John Jacob Astor of the prominent Astor family bought the land from Lawton for $20,500. The Astors also purchased a parcel from the Murrays. John Jacob's son William Backhouse Astor Sr. bought a half interest on July 28, 1827, for $20,500, for a tract of land on Fifth Avenue from 32nd to 35th streets.\n\nOn March 13, 1893, John Jacob Astor Sr's grandson William Waldorf Astor opened the Waldorf Hotel on the site with the help of hotelier George Boldt. On November 1, 1897, Waldorf's cousin, John Jacob Astor IV, opened the 16-story Astoria Hotel on an adjacent site. The combined hotel had 1,300 bedrooms making it the largest hotel in the world at the time. After Boldt died, in early 1918, the hotel lease was purchased by Coleman du Pont. By the 1920s, the hotel was becoming dated and the elegant social life of New York had moved much farther north than 34th Street. The Astor family decided to build a replacement hotel further uptown, and sold the hotel to Bethlehem Engineering Corporation in 1928 for $14–16 million. They closed the hotel on May 3, 1929.\n\nBethlehem Engineering Corporation originally intended to build a 25-story office building on the Waldorf–Astoria site. The company's president, Floyd De L. Brown, paid $100,000 of the $1 million down payment required to start construction on the tower, with the promise that the difference would be paid later. Brown borrowed $900,000 from a bank, but then defaulted on the loan.\n\nThe land was then resold to Empire State Inc., a group of wealthy investors that included Louis G. Kaufman, Ellis P. Earle, John J. Raskob, Coleman du Pont, and Pierre S. du Pont. The name came from the state nickname for New York. Alfred E. Smith, a former Governor of New York and U.S. presidential candidate whose 1928 campaign had been managed by Raskob, was appointed head of the company. The group also purchased nearby land so they would have the needed for the tower's base, with the combined plot measuring wide by long. The Empire State Inc. consortium was announced to the public in August 1929.\n\nEmpire State Inc. contracted William F. Lamb, of architectural firm Shreve, Lamb and Harmon, to create the building design. Lamb produced the building drawings in just two weeks using the firm's earlier designs for the Reynolds Building in Winston-Salem, North Carolina as the basis. Concurrently, Lamb's partner Richmond Shreve created \"bug diagrams\" of the project requirements. The 1916 Zoning Act forced Lamb to design a structure that incorporated setbacks resulting in the lower floors being larger than the upper floors. Consequently, the tower was designed from the top down, giving it a \"pencil\"-like shape.\n\nThe original plan of the building was 50 stories, but was later increased to 60 and then 80 stories. Height restrictions were placed on nearby buildings to ensure that the top fifty floors of the planned 80-story, building would have unobstructed views of the city. \"The New York Times\" lauded the site's proximity to transportation, with the Brooklyn–Manhattan Transit's 34th Street station and the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad's 33rd Street terminal one block away, as well as Penn Station two blocks away and the Grand Central Terminal nine blocks away at its closest. It also praised the of proposed floor space near \"one of the busiest sections in the world\".\n\nWhile plans for the Empire State Building were being finalized, an intense competition in New York for the title of \"world's tallest building\" was underway. 40 Wall Street (then the Bank of Manhattan Building) and the Chrysler Building in Manhattan both vied for this distinction and were already under construction when work began on the Empire State Building. The \"Race into the Sky\", as popular media called it at the time, was representative of the country's optimism in the 1920s, fueled by the building boom in major cities. The 40 Wall Street tower was revised, in April 1929, from to making it the world's tallest. The Chrysler Building added its steel tip to its roof in October 1929, thus bringing it to a height of and greatly exceeding the height of 40 Wall Street. The Chrysler Building's developer, Walter Chrysler, realized that his tower's height would exceed the Empire State Building's as well, having instructed his architect, William Van Alen, to change the Chrysler's original roof from a stubby Romanesque dome to a narrow steel spire. Raskob, wishing to have the Empire State Building be the world's tallest, reviewed the plans and had five floors added as well as a spire; however, the new floors would need to be set back because of projected wind pressure on the extension. On November 18, 1929, Smith acquired a lot at 27–31 West 33rd Street, adding to the width of the proposed office building's site. Two days later, Smith announced the updated plans for the skyscraper that included an observation deck on the 86th-floor roof at a height of , higher than the Chrysler's 71st-floor observation deck.\n\nThe 1,050-foot Empire State Building would only be taller than the Chrysler Building, and Raskob was afraid that Chrysler might try to \"pull a trick like hiding a rod in the spire and then sticking it up at the last minute.\" The plans were revised one last time in December 1929, to include a 16-story, metal \"crown\" and an additional mooring mast intended for dirigibles. The roof height was now , making it the tallest building in the world by far, even without the antenna. The addition of the dirigible station meant that another floor, the now-enclosed 86th floor, would have to be built below the crown; however, unlike the Chrysler's spire, the Empire State's mast would serve a practical purpose. The final plan was announced to the public on January 8, 1930, just before the start of construction. \"The New York Times\" reported that the spire was facing some \"technical problems\", but they were \"no greater than might be expected under such a novel plan.\" By this time the blueprints for the building had gone through up to fifteen versions before they were approved. Lamb described the other specifications he was given for the final, approved plan:\n\nThe contractors were Starrett Brothers and Eken, Paul and William A. Starrett and Andrew J. Eken, who had also constructed other New York City buildings such as the original Stuyvesant Town, Starrett City and Trump Tower. The project was financed primarily by Raskob and Pierre du Pont, while James Farley's General Builders Supply Corporation supplied the building materials. John W. Bowser was the construction superintendent of the proejct, and the structural engineer of the building was Homer G. Balcom. The tight completion schedule necessitated the commencement of construction even though the design had yet to be finalized.\n\nDemolition of the old Waldorf–Astoria began on October 1, 1929. Stripping the building down was an arduous process, as the hotel had been constructed using more rigid material than earlier buildings had been. Furthermore, the old hotel's granite, wood chips, and \"'precious' metals such as lead, brass, and zinc\" were not in high demand resulting in issues with disposal. Most of the wood was deposited into a woodpile on nearby 30th Street or was burned in a swamp elsewhere. Much of the other materials that made up the old hotel, including the granite and bronze, were dumped into the Atlantic Ocean near Sandy Hook, New Jersey.\n\nBy the time the hotel's demolition started, Raskob had secured the required funding for the construction of the building. The plan was to start construction later that year but, on October 24, the New York Stock Exchange suffered a sudden crash marking the beginning of the decade-long Great Depression. Despite the economic downturn, Raskob refused to cancel the project because of the progress that had been made up to that point. Neither Raskob, who had ceased speculation in the stock market the previous year, nor Smith, who had no stock investments, suffered financially in the crash. However, most of the investors were affected and as a result, in December 1929, Empire State Inc. obtained a $27.5 million loan from Metropolitan Life Insurance Company so construction could begin. The stock market crash resulted in no demand in new office space, Raskob and Smith nonetheless started construction, as canceling the project would have resulted in greater losses for the investors.\n\nA structural steel contract was awarded on January 12, 1930, with excavation of the site beginning ten days later on January 22, before the old hotel had been completely demolished. Two twelve-hour shifts, consisting of 300 men each, worked continuously to dig the foundation. Small pier holes were sunk into the ground to house the concrete footings that would support the steelwork. Excavation was nearly complete by early March, and construction on the building itself started on March 17, with the builders placing the first steel columns on the completed footings before the rest of the footings had been finished. Around this time, Lamb held a press conference on the building plans. He described the reflective steel panels parallel to the windows, the large-block Indiana Limestone facade that was slightly more expensive than smaller bricks, and the tower's lines and rise. Four colossal columns, intended for installation in the center of the building site, were delivered; they would support a combined when the building was finished.\n\nThe structural steel was pre-ordered and pre-fabricated in anticipation of a revision to the city's building code that would have allowed the Empire State Building's structural steel to carry , up from , thus reducing the amount of steel needed for the building. Although the 18,000-psi regulation had been safely enacted in other cities, Mayor Jimmy Walker did not sign the new codes into law until March 26, 1930, just before construction was due to commence. The first steel framework was installed on April 1, 1930. From there, construction proceeded at a rapid pace; during one stretch of 10 working days, the builders erected fourteen floors. This was made possible through precise coordination of the building's planning, as well as the mass production of common materials such as windows and spandrels. On one occasion, when a supplier could not provide timely delivery of dark Hauteville marble, Starrett switched to using Rose Famosa marble from a German quarry that was purchased specifically to provide the project with sufficient marble.\n\nThe scale of the project was massive, with trucks carrying \"16,000 partition tiles, 5,000 bags of cement, of sand and 300 bags of lime\" arriving at the construction site every day. There were also cafes and concession stands on five of the incomplete floors so workers did not have to descend to the ground level to eat lunch. Temporary water taps were also built so workers did not waste time buying water bottles from the ground level. Additionally, carts running on a small railway system transported materials from the basement storage to elevators that brought the carts to the desired floors where they would then be distributed throughout that level using another set of tracks. The of steel ordered for the project was the largest-ever single order of steel at the time, comprising more steel than was ordered for the Chrysler Building and 40 Wall Street combined. According to historian John Tauranac, building materials were sourced from numerous, and distant, sources with \"limestone from Indiana, steel girders from Pittsburgh, cement and mortar from upper New York State, marble from Italy, France, and England, wood from northern and Pacific Coast forests, [and] hardware from New England.\" The facade, too, used a variety of material, most prominently Indiana limestone but also Swedish black granite, terracotta, and brick.\n\nBy June 20, the skyscraper's supporting steel structure had risen to the 26th floor, and by July 27, half of the steel structure had been completed. Starrett Bros. and Eken endeavored to build one floor a day in order to speed up construction, a goal that they almost reached with their pace of stories per week; prior to this, the fastest pace of construction for a building of similar height had been stories per week. While construction progressed, the final designs for the floors were being designed from the ground up (as opposed to the general design, which had been from the roof down). Some of the levels were still undergoing final approval, with several orders placed within an hour of a plan being finalized. On September 10, as steelwork was nearing completion, Smith laid the building's cornerstone during a ceremony attended by thousands. The stone contained a box with contemporary artifacts including the previous day's \"New York Times\", a U.S. currency set containing all denominations of notes and coins minted in 1930, a history of the site and building, and photographs of the people involved in construction. The steel structure was topped out at on September 19, twelve days ahead of schedule and 23 weeks after the start of construction. Workers raised a flag atop the 86th floor to signify this milestone.\n\nAfterward, work on the building's interior and crowning mast commenced. The mooring mast topped out on November 21, two months after the steelwork had been completed. Meanwhile, work on the walls and interior was progressing at a quick pace, with exterior walls built up to the 75th floor by the time steelwork had been built to the 95th floor. The majority of the facade was already finished by the middle of November. Because of the building's height, it was deemed infeasible to have many elevators or large elevator cabins, so the builders contracted with the Otis Elevator Company to make 66 cars that could speed at , which represented the largest-ever elevator order at the time.\n\nIn addition to the time constraint builders had, there were also space limitations because construction materials had to be delivered quickly, and trucks needed to drop off these materials without congesting traffic. This was solved by creating a temporary driveway for the trucks between 33rd and 34th Streets, and then storing the materials in the building's first floor and basements. Concrete mixers, brick hoppers, and stone hoists inside the building ensured that materials would be able to ascend quickly and without endangering or inconveniencing the public. At one point, over 200 trucks made material deliveries at the building site every day. A series of relay and erection derricks, placed on platforms erected near the building, lifted the steel from the trucks below and installed the beams at the appropriate locations. The Empire State Building was structurally completed on April 11, 1931, twelve days ahead of schedule and 410 days after construction commenced. Al Smith shot the final rivet, which was made of solid gold.\n\nThe project involved more than 3,500 workers at its peak, including 3,439 on a single day, August 14, 1930. Many of the workers were Irish and Italian immigrants, with a sizable minority of Mohawk ironworkers from the Kahnawake reserve near Montreal. According to official accounts, five workers died during the construction, although the \"New York Daily News\" gave reports of 14 deaths and a headline in the socialist magazine \"The New Masses\" spread unfounded rumors of up to 42 deaths. The Empire State Building cost $40,948,900 to build, including demolition of the Waldorf–Astoria (equivalent to $ in ). This was lower than the $60 million budgeted for construction.\n\nLewis Hine captured many photographs of the construction, documenting not only the work itself but also providing insight into the daily life of workers in that era. Hine's images were used extensively by the media to publish daily press releases. According to the writer Jim Rasenberger, Hine \"climbed out onto the steel with the ironworkers and dangled from a derrick cable hundreds of feet above the city to capture, as no one ever had before (or has since), the dizzy work of building skyscrapers\". In Rasenberger's words, Hine turned what might have been an assignment of \"corporate flak\" into \"exhilarating art\". These images were later organized into their own collection. Onlookers were enraptured by the sheer height at which the steelworkers operated. \"New York\" magazine wrote of the steelworkers: \"Like little spiders they toiled, spinning a fabric of steel against the sky\".\n\nThe Empire State Building was officially opened on May 1, 1931, forty five days ahead of its projected opening date, by United States President Herbert Hoover, who turned on the building's lights with the ceremonial button push from Washington, D.C.. Over 350 guests attended the opening ceremony, and following luncheon, at the 86th floor including Jimmy Walker, Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Al Smith. An account from that day stated that the view from the luncheon was obscured by a fog, with other landmarks such as the Statue of Liberty being \"lost in the mist\". The building officially opened the next day. Advertisements for the observatories were placed in local newspapers, while nearby hotels also released advertisements that lauded their proximity to the newly opened tower.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", builders and real estate speculators predicted that the Empire State Building would be the world's tallest building \"for many years\", thus ending the great New York City skyscraper rivalry. At the time, most engineers agreed that it would be difficult to build a building taller than , even with the hardy Manhattan bedrock as a foundation. (Technically, it was believed possible to build a tower of up to , but it was deemed uneconomical to do so, especially during the Great Depression.) As the tallest building in the world, at that time, and the first one to exceed 100 floors, the Empire State Building became an icon of the city and, ultimately, of the nation.\n\nThe Empire State Building's opening coincided with the Great Depression in the United States, and as a result much of its office space was vacant from its opening. In the first year, only 23% of the available space was rented, as compared to the early 1920s, where the average building would have occupancy of 52% upon opening and 90% rented within five years. The lack of renters led New Yorkers to deride the building as the \"Empty State Building\".\n\nJack Brod, one of the building's longest resident tenants, co-established the Empire Diamond Corporation with his father in the building in mid-1931 and rented space in the building until he died in 2008. Brod recalled that there were only about 20 tenants at the time of opening, including him, and that Al Smith was the only real tenant in the space above his seventh-floor offices. Generally, during the early 1930s, it was rare for more than a single office space to be rented in the building, despite Smith's and Raskob's aggressive marketing efforts in the newspapers and to anyone they knew. The building's lights were continuously left on, even in the unrented spaces, to give the impression of occupancy. This was exacerbated by competition from Rockefeller Center as well as from buildings on 42nd Street, which, when combined with the Empire State Building, resulted in surplus of office space in a slow market.\n\nAggressive marketing efforts served to reinforce the Empire State Building's status as the world's tallest. The observatory was advertised in local newspapers as well as on railroad tickets. The building became a popular tourist attraction, with one million people each paying one dollar to ride elevators to the observation decks in 1931. In its first year of operation, the observation deck made approximately $2 million in revenue, as much as its owners made in rent that year. By 1936, the observation deck was crowded on a daily basis, with food and drink available for purchase at the top, and by 1944 the tower had received its 5 millionth visitor. In 1931, NBC took up tenancy, leasing space on the 85th floor for radio broadcasts. From the outset the building was in debt, losing $1 million per year by 1935. Real estate developer Seymour Durst recalled that the building was so underused in 1936 that there was no elevator service above the 45th floor, as the building above the 41st floor was empty except for the NBC offices and the Raskob/Du Pont offices on the 81st floor.\n\nPer the original plans, the Empire State Building's spire was intended to be an airship docking station. Raskob and Smith had proposed dirigible ticketing offices and passenger waiting rooms on the 86th floor, while the airships themselves would be tied to the spire at the equivalent of the building's 106th floor. An elevator would ferry passengers from the 86th to the 101st floor after they had checked in on the 86th floor, after which passengers would have climbed steep ladders to board the airship. The idea, however, was impractical and dangerous due to powerful updrafts caused by the building itself, the wind currents across Manhattan, and the spires of nearby skyscrapers. Furthermore, even if the airship were to successfully navigate all these obstacles, its crew would have to jettison some ballast by releasing water onto the streets below in order to maintain stability, and then tie the craft's nose to the spire with no mooring lines securing the tail end of the craft. On September 15, 1931, in the first and only instance of an airship using the building's mast, a small commercial United States Navy airship circled 25 times in winds. The airship then attempted to dock at the mast, but its ballast spilled and the craft was rocked by unpredictable eddies. The near-disaster scuttled plans to turn the building's spire into an airship terminal, although one blimp did manage to make a single newspaper delivery afterward.\n\nIn 1932, the Fifth Avenue Association gave the tower its 1931 \"gold medal\" for architectural excellence, signifying that the Empire State had been the best-designed building on Fifth Avenue to open in 1931. A year later, on March 2, 1933, the movie \"King Kong\" was released. The movie, which depicted a large stop motion ape named Kong climbing the Empire State Building, made the still-new building into a cinematic icon.\n\nOn July 28, 1945, a B-25 Mitchell bomber crashed into the north side of the Empire State Building, between the 79th and 80th floors. One engine completely penetrated the building and landed in a neighboring block, while the other engine and part of the landing gear plummeted down an elevator shaft. Fourteen people were killed in the incident, but the building escaped severe damage and was reopened two days later.\n\nThe Empire State Building only started becoming profitable in the 1950s, when it was finally able to break even for the first time. Despite the lack of nearby transportation centers, the Empire State Building started to attract renters due to its reputation. A radio antenna was erected on top of the tower starting in 1950, allowing the area's television stations to broadcast from the building.\n\nHowever, despite the turnaround in the building's fortunes, Raskob put the tower up for sale in 1951, with a minimum asking price of $50 million. The property was purchased by business partners Roger L. Stevens, Henry Crown, Alfred R. Glancy and Ben Tobin. The sale was brokered by the Charles F. Noyes Company, a prominent real estate firm in upper Manhattan, for $51 million, the highest price paid for a single structure at the time. By this time, the Empire State had been fully leased for several years with a waiting list of parties looking to lease space in the building, according to the \"Cortland Standard\". That year, six news companies formed a partnership to pay a combined annual fee of $600,000 to use the tower's antenna, which was completed in 1953. Crown bought out his partners' ownership stakes in 1954, becoming the sole owner. The following year, the American Society of Civil Engineers named the building one of the \"Seven Modern Civil Engineering Wonders\".\n\nIn 1961, a group headed by Harry B. Helmsley, Lawrence A. Wien, and Wien's son-in-law Peter L. Malkin gained control of the building for $65 million, which became the new highest price for a single structure. Over 3,000 people paid $10,000 for one share each in a company called Empire State Building Associates. The company in turn subleased the building to another company headed by Helmsley and Wein, raising $33 million of the funds needed to pay the purchase price. In a separate transaction, the land underneath the building was sold to Prudential Insurance for $29 million. Helmsley, Wein, and Malkin quickly started a program of minor improvement projects, including the first-ever full-building facade refurbishment and window-washing in 1962, the installation of new flood lights on the 72nd floor in 1964, and replacement of the manually operated elevators with automatic units in 1966. The little-used western end of the second floor was used as a storage space until 1964, at which point it received escalators to the first floor as part of its conversion into a highly-sought retail area.\n\nIn 1961, the same year that Helmsley, Wien, and Malkin had purchased the Empire State Building, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey formally backed plans for a new World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan. The plan originally included 66-story twin towers with column-free open spaces. The Empire State's owners and real estate speculators were worried that the twin towers' of office space would create a glut of rentable space in Manhattan as well as take away the Empire State Building's profits from lessees. A revision in the World Trade Center's plan brought the twin towers to each or 110 stories, taller than the Empire State. Opponents of the new project included prominent real-estate developer Robert Tishman, as well as Wien's Committee for a Reasonable World Trade Center. In response to Wein's opposition, Port Authority executive director Austin J. Tobin said that Wein was only opposing the project because it would overshadow his Empire State Building as the world's tallest building.\n\nThe World Trade Center's twin towers started construction in 1966. The following year, the Ostankino Tower succeeded the Empire State Building as the tallest freestanding structure in the world. In 1970, the Empire State surrendered its position as the world's tallest building, when the still under construction North Tower of the World Trade Center surpassed it, on October 19; the North Tower was topped out, on December 23, 1970.\n\nIn December 1975, the observation deck was opened on the 110th floor of the Twin Towers, significantly higher than the 86th floor observatory on the Empire state. The Empire State Building was also losing revenue during this period, particularly as a number of broadcast stations had moved to the World Trade Center in 1971; although the Port Authority continued to pay the broadcasting leases for the Empire State until 1984.\n\nBy 1980, there were nearly two million annual visitors, although a building official had previously estimated between 1.5 million and 1.75 million annual visitors. The building received its own ZIP code in May 1980 in a roll out of 63 new postal codes in Manhattan. At the time, the tenants of the tower collectively received 35,000 pieces of mail daily. The Empire State Building celebrated its 50th anniversary on May 1, 1981, with a much-publicized, but poorly received, laser light show, as well as an \"Empire State Building Week\" that ran through to May 8.\n\nThe New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission voted to make the lobby a city landmark on May 19, 1981, citing the historic nature of the first and second floors, as well as \"the fixtures and interior components\" of the upper floors. The building became a National Historic Landmark in 1986 in close alignment to the New York City Landmarks report. That year, the Plaza Hotel and Metropolitan Museum of Art further uptown were also designated as National Historic Landmarks. The Empire State Building was added to the National Register of Historic Places the following year due to its architectural significance.\n\nFrom the early to mid 1990s, the building underwent a $55 million series of upgrades with the alarm systems, elevators, windows, and air conditioning being replaced, the 86th floor observation deck made accessible to disabled visitors, and the facade again refurbished. Prudential sold the land under the building in 1991 for $42 million to a buyer representing hotelier Hideki Yokoi, who was imprisoned at the time in connection with a deadly fire at the Hotel New Japan hotel in Tokyo. The land was bought jointly by Donald Trump and Hideki Yokoi in 1994. Having secured a half-ownership of the land, Trump devised plans to take ownership of the building itself so he could renovate it, even though Helmsley and Malkin had already started their refurbishment project. He sued Empire State Building Associates in February 1995, claiming that the latter had caused the building to become a \"high-rise slum\" and a \"second-rate, rodent-infested\" office tower. Trump had intended to have Empire State Building Associates evicted for violating the terms of their lease, but was denied. this led to Helmsley's companies countersuing Trump in May. This sparked a series of lawsuits and countersuits that lasted several years, partly arising from Trump's desire to obtain the building's master lease by taking it from Empire State Building Associates. Upon Harry Helmsley's death in 1997, the Malkins sued Helmsley's widow, Leona Helmsley, for ownership of the building.\n\nWith the destruction of the World Trade Center in the September 11 attacks in 2001, the Empire State Building again became the tallest building in New York City, but was only the second-tallest building in the Americas after the Willis Tower in Chicago. As a result of the attacks, transmissions from nearly all of the city's commercial television and FM radio stations were again broadcast from the Empire State Building. The attacks also led to an increase in security due to persistent terror threats against New York City landmarks.\n\nIn 2002, Trump and Yokoi sold their land claim to the Empire State Building Associates, now headed by Malkin, in a $57.5 million sale. This action merged the building's title and lease for the first time in half a century. Despite the lingering threat posed by the 9/11 attacks, the Empire State Building remained popular with 3.5 million visitors to the observatories in 2004, compared to about 2.8 million in 2003.\n\nLeona Helmsley's remaining share in the building was bought by Peter Malkin's company in 2006. In 2008 the building was temporarily \"stolen\" by the \"New York Daily News\" to show how easy it was to transfer the deed on a property, since city clerks were not required to validate the submitted information, as well as to help demonstrate how fraudulent deeds could be used to obtain large mortgages and then have individuals disappear with the money. The paperwork submitted to the city included the names of Fay Wray, the famous star of \"King Kong\", and Willie Sutton, a notorious New York bank robber. The newspaper then transferred the deed back over to the legitimate owners, who at that time were Empire State Land Associates.\n\nThe building's public areas received a $550 million renovation in 2009 (see ). The building received new air conditioning, waterproofing, a renovated observation deck and lobby, and a relocated 80th-floor gift shop. This included $120 million of energy efficient upgrades, which allowed the building to receive a gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating in September 2011. The new One World Trade Center surpassed the Empire State Building as the tallest LEED-certified building when it opened in 2014.\n\nThe height of the Empire State Building, to its 102nd floor, is , including its pinnacle. The building has 85 stories of commercial and office space representing a total of of rentable space. It has an indoor and outdoor observation deck on the 86th floor, the highest floor within the actual tower. The remaining 16 stories are part of the Art Deco spire, which is capped by an observatory on the 102nd-floor. The spire is hollow with no floors between levels 86 and 102. Atop the tower is the pinnacle, much of which is covered by broadcast antennas, and surmounted with a lightning rod.\n\nAccording to the official fact sheets the building rises 1,860 steps from the first to the 102nd floor, weighs , has an internal volume of , and an exterior with of limestone and granite. Construction of the tower's exterior required ten million bricks and of aluminum and stainless steel, and the interior required of elevator cable and of electrical wires. The building has a capacity for 20,000 tenants and 15,000 visitors.\n\nThe building has been named as one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. The building and its street floor interior are designated landmarks of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and confirmed by the New York City Board of Estimate. It was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1986. In 2007, it was ranked number one on the AIA's List of America's Favorite Architecture.\n\nThe Empire State Building's art deco design is typical of pre–World War II architecture in New York. The modernistic, stainless steel canopies of the entrances on 33rd and 34th Streets lead to two-story-high corridors around the elevator core, crossed by stainless steel and glass-enclosed bridges at the second-floor level. The riveted steel frame of the building was originally designed to handle all of the building's gravitational stresses and wind loads. The exterior of the building is clad in Indiana limestone panels sourced from the Empire Mill in Sanders, Indiana, which give the building its signature blonde color. The limestone facade, which is lined with vertical steel mullions parallel to each window, also helps to increase the stiffness of the steel frame against high winds. The amount of material used in the building's construction resulted in a very stiff structure when compared to other skyscrapers, with a structural stiffness of versus the Willis Tower's and the John Hancock Center's . A December 1930 feature in \"Popular Mechanics\" estimated that a building with the Empire State's dimensions would still stand even if hit with an impact of .\n\nThe Empire State Building design featured one major setback and several smaller ones that reduce the level dimensions as the height increases, thus making upper 81 floors much smaller than the lower five floors. However, this design allows sunlight to illuminate the interiors of the top floors and, in addition, positions these floors away from the noisy streets below. This design was mandated as per the 1916 Zoning Resolution, which was intended to allow sunlight to reach the streets as well. Normally, a building of the Empire State's dimensions would be permitted to build up to 12 stories on the Fifth Avenue side, and up to 17 stories on the 33rd/34th Streets side, before it would have to utilize setbacks. However, the setbacks were arranged such that the largest setback was on the sixth floor, above the five-floor \"base\", so the rest of the building above the sixth floor would have a facade of uniform shape.\n\nThe Empire State Building was the first building to have more than 100 floors. It has 6,500 windows; 73 elevators; a total floor area of ; and a base covering . Its original 64 elevators, built by the Otis Elevator Company, are located in a central core and are of varying heights, with the longest of these elevators reaching from the lobby to the 80th floor. As originally built, there were four \"express\" elevators that connected the lobby, 80th floor, and several landings in between; the other 60 \"local\" elevators connected the landings with the floors above these intermediate landings. Of the 64 total elevators, 58 were for passenger use (comprising the four express elevators and 54 local elevators), and eight were for freight deliveries. The elevators were designed to move at . At the time of the skyscraper's construction, their practical speed was limited to as per city law, but this limit was removed shortly after the building opened. Additional elevators connect the 80th floor to the six floors above it, as the six extra floors were built after the original 80 stories were approved. The elevators were mechanically operated until 2011, when they were replaced with digital elevators during the $550 million renovation of the building. The Empire State Building has 73 elevators in all, including service elevators.\n\nUtilities are grouped in a central shaft. On each floor between levels 6 and 86, the central shaft is surrounded by a main corridor on all four sides. As per the final specifications of the building, the corridor is surrounded in turn by office space deep. Each of the floors has 210 structural columns that pass through it, which provide structural stability, but limits the amount of open space on these floors. However, the relative dearth of stone in the building allows for more space overall, with a 1:200 stone-to-building ratio in the Empire State compared to a 1:50 ratio in similar buildings.\n\nThe original main lobby is accessed from Fifth Avenue, on the building's east side, and contains an entrance with one set of double doors between a pair of revolving doors. At the top of each doorway is a bronze motif depicting one of three \"crafts or industries\" used in the building's construction—Electricity, Masonry, and Heating. The lobby contains two tiers of marble, a lighter marble on the top, above the storefronts, and a darker marble on the bottom, flush with the storefronts. There is a pattern of zigzagging terrazzo tiles on the lobby floor, which leads from the entrance on the east to the aluminum relief on the west. The chapel-like three-story-high lobby, which runs parallel to 33rd and 34th Streets, contains storefronts on both its northern and southern sides. These storefronts are framed on each side by tubes of dark \"modernistically rounded marble\", according to the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and above by a vertical band of grooves set into the marble. Immediately inside the lobby is an airport-style security checkpoint.\n\nThe walls on both the northern and southern sides of the lobby house storefronts and escalators to a mezzanine level. At the west end of the lobby is an aluminum relief of the skyscraper as it was originally built (i.e. without the antenna). The relief, which was intended to provide a welcoming effect, contains an embossing of the building's outline, accompanied by what the Landmarks Preservation Commission describes as \"the rays of an aluminum sun shining out behind [the tower] and mingling with aluminum rays emanating from the spire of the Empire State Building\". In the background is a state map of New York with the building's location marked by a \"medallion\" in the very southeast portion of the outline. A compass is located in the bottom right and a plaque to the tower's major developers is on the bottom left.\n\nThe plaque at the western end of the lobby is located on the eastern interior wall of a one-story tall rectangular-shaped corridor that surrounds the banks of escalators, with a similar design to the lobby. The rectangular shaped corridor actually consists of two long hallways on the northern and southern sides of the rectangle, as well as a shorter hallway on the eastern side and another long hallway on the western side. At both ends of the northern and southern corridors, there is a bank of four low-rise elevators in between the corridors. The western side of the rectangular elevator-bank corridor extends north to the 34th Street entrance and south to the 33rd Street entrance. It borders three large storefronts and leads to escalators that go both to the second floor and to the basement. Going from west to east, there are secondary entrances to 34th and 33rd Streets from both the northern and southern corridors, respectively, at approximately the two-thirds point of each corridor.\n\nUntil the 1960s, an art deco mural, inspired by both the sky and the Machine Age, was installed in the lobby ceilings. Subsequent damage to these murals, designed by artist Leif Neandross, resulted in reproductions being installed. Renovations to the lobby in 2009, such as replacing the clock over the information desk in the Fifth Avenue lobby with an anemometer and installing two chandeliers intended to be part of the building when it originally opened, revived much of its original grandeur. The north corridor contained eight illuminated panels created in 1963 by Roy Sparkia and Renée Nemorov, in time for the 1964 World's Fair, depicting the building as the Eighth Wonder of the World alongside the traditional seven. The building's owners installed a series of paintings by the New York artist Kysa Johnson in the concourse level. Johnson later filed a federal lawsuit, in January 2014, under the Visual Artists Rights Act alleging the negligent destruction of the paintings and damage to her reputation as an artist. As part of the building's 2010 renovation, Denise Amses commissioned a work consisting of 15,000 stars and 5,000 circles, superimposed on a etched-glass installation, in the lobby.\n\nCapital improvements were made to the Empire State Building during the early to mid-1990s at a cost of $55 million. These improvements entailed replacing alarm systems, elevators, windows, and air conditioning; making the observation deck compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA); and refurbishing the limestone facade. The observatory renovation was added after disability rights groups and the United States Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the building in 1992, in what was the first lawsuit filed by an organization under the new law. A settlement was reached in 1994, in which the Empire State Building Associates agreed to add ADA-compliant elements, such as new elevators, ramps, and automatic doors, during its ongoing renovation.\n\nThe building's public areas received a $550 million renovation in 2009 with improvements to the air conditioning and waterproofing, renovations to the observation deck and main lobby, and relocation of the gift shop to the 80th floor. $120 million of the budget was spent on improving the energy efficiency of the building with the goal of reducing energy emissions by 38% within five years. For example, all of the windows were refurbished onsite into film-coated \"superwindows\" which block heat but pass light. Air conditioning operating costs on hot days were reduced, saving $17 million of the project's capital cost immediately and partially funding some of the other retrofits. The Empire State Building won a gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating in September 2011, as well as the World Federation of Great Towers' Excellence in Environment Award for 2010.\n\nThe building started undergoing a 10-year renovation in the 2010s to further improve energy efficiency, public areas, and amenities. In August 2018, in a move to improve the flow of visitor traffic, the main visitor's entrance was shifted to 20 West 34th Street as part of a major renovation of the observatory lobby. The new lobby includes several technological features, including large LED panels, digital ticket kiosks in nine languages, and a two-story architectural model of the building surrounded by two metal staircases. The first phase of the renovation, to be completed by 2019, would feature an updated exterior lighting system and digital hosts.\n\nThe final stage of the building was the installation of a hollow mast, a steel shaft fitted with elevators and utilities, above the 86th floor. At the top would be a conical roof and the 102nd-floor docking station. The elevators would ascend from the 86th floor ticket offices to a 101st-floor waiting room. From there, stairs would lead to the 102nd floor, where passengers would enter the airships. The airships would have been moored to the spire at the equivalent of the building's 106th floor.\n\nOn the 102nd floor of the Empire State Building (formerly the 101st floor), there is a door with stairs ascending to the 103rd floor (formerly the 102nd). This was built as a disembarkation floor for airships tethered to the building's spire, and has a circular balcony outside. It is now an access point to reach the spire for maintenance. The room now contains electrical equipment, but celebrities and dignitaries may also be given permission to take pictures there. Above the 103rd floor, there is a set of stairs and a ladder to reach the spire for maintenance work. The mast's 480 windows were all replaced in 2015.\n\nBroadcasting began at the Empire State Building on December 22, 1931, when NBC and RCA began transmitting experimental television broadcasts from a small antenna erected atop the spire, with two separate transmitters for the visual and audio data. They leased the 85th floor and built a laboratory there. In 1934, RCA was joined by Edwin Howard Armstrong in a cooperative venture to test his FM system from the building's antenna. This setup, which entailed the installation of the world's first FM transmitter, continued only until October of the next year due to disputes between RCA and Armstrong. Specifically, NBC wanted to install more TV equipment in the room where Armstrong's transmitter was located.\n\nAfter some time, the 85th floor became home to RCA's New York television operations initially as experimental station W2XBS channel 1 then, from 1941, as commercial station WNBT channel 1 (now WNBC-TV channel 4). NBC's FM station, W2XDG, began transmitting from the antenna in 1940. NBC retained exclusive use of the top of the building until 1950 when the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ordered the exclusive deal be terminated. The FCC directive was based on consumer complaints that a common location was necessary for the seven extant New York-area television stations to transmit from so that receiving antennas would not have to be constantly adjusted. Other television broadcasters would later join RCA at the building on the 81st through 83rd floors, often along with sister FM stations. Construction of a dedicated broadcast tower began on July 27, 1950, with TV, and FM, transmissions starting in 1951. The broadcast tower was completed by 1953. From 1951, six broadcasters agreed to pay a combined $600,000 per year for the use of the antenna. In 1965, a separate set of FM antennae was constructed ringing the 103rd floor observation area to act as a master antenna.\n\nThe placement of the stations in the Empire State Building became a major issue with the construction of the World Trade Center Twin Towers in the late 1960s, and early 1970s. The greater height of the Twin Towers would reflect radio waves broadcast from the Empire State Building, eventually resulting in some broadcasters relocating to the newer towers instead of suing the developer, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Even though the nine stations who were broadcasting from the Empire State Building were leasing their broadcast space until 1984, most of these stations moved to the World Trade Center as soon as it was completed in 1971. The broadcasters obtained a court order stipulating that the Port Authority had to build a mast and transmission equipment in the North Tower, as well as pay the broadcasters' leases in the Empire State Building until 1984. Only a few broadcasters renewed their leases in the Empire State Building.\n\nThe September 11 attacks in 2001 destroyed the World Trade Center and the broadcast centers atop it, leaving most of the city's stations without a station for ten days until a temporary tower was built in Alpine, New Jersey. By October 2001, nearly all of the city's commercial broadcast stations (both television and FM radio) were again transmitting from the top of the Empire State Building. In a report that Congress commissioned about the transition from analog television to digital television, it was stated that the placement of broadcast stations in the Empire State Building was considered \"problematic\" due to interference from other nearby towers. In comparison, the Congressional report stated that the former Twin Towers had very few buildings of comparable height nearby thus signals suffered little interference. In 2003, a few FM stations were relocated to the nearby Condé Nast Building to reduce the number of broadcast stations using the Empire State Building. Eleven television stations and twenty-two FM stations had signed 15-year leases in the building by May 2003. It was expected that a taller broadcast tower in Bayonne, New Jersey, or Governors Island, would be built in the meantime with the Empire State Building being used as a \"backup\" since signal transmissions from the building were generally of poorer quality.\n\nWith the completion of 1 World Trade Center, some TV Stations began moving their transmitting facilities to 1 World Trade Center, while others, including WABC-TV remained at the Empire State Building, with no plans to consider a move to the new tower.\n\n, the Empire State Building is home to the following stations:\n\nThe 86th and 102nd floors contain observatories, which see a combined average of 4 million visitors per year. Since opening, the observatories have been more popular than similar observatories at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, the Chrysler Building, the first One World Trade Center, or the Woolworth Building, despite being more expensive. Tourists must pay to visit the observation deck on the 86th floor; there is an additional charge to visit the 102nd floor. Other ticket options for visitors include scheduled access to view the sunrise from the observatory, a “premium” guided tour with VIP access, and the “AM/PM” package which allows for two visits in the same day.\n\nThe 86th floor observatory contains both an enclosed section and a wide-open section. The 102nd floor observatory is completely enclosed and much smaller. The 102nd floor observatory was closed to the public from the late 1990s to 2005. The observation decks were redesigned in mid-1979.\n\nAccording to a 2010 report by Concierge.com, the five lines to enter the observation decks are \"as legendary as the building itself\". Concierge.com stated that there are five lines: the sidewalk line, the lobby elevator line, the ticket purchase line, the second elevator line, and the line to get off the elevator and onto the observation deck. However, in 2016, New York City's official tourism website, NYCgo.com, made note of only three lines: the security check line, the ticket purchase line, and the second elevator line. For an extra fee tourists can skip to the front of the line. The Empire State Building garners significant revenue from ticket sales for its observation decks, making more money from ticket sales than it does from renting office space during some years.\n\nIn early 1994, a motion simulator attraction was built on the 2nd floor, as a complement to the observation deck. The cinematic presentation lasts approximately 25 minutes, while the simulation is about eight minutes.\n\nThe ride has had two incarnations. The original version, which ran from 1994 until around 2002, featured James Doohan, \"\" Scotty, as the airplane's pilot who humorously tried to keep the flight under control during a storm. After the World Trade Center terrorist attacks in September 11, 2001, the ride was closed. An updated version debuted in mid-2002, featuring actor Kevin Bacon as the pilot, with the new flight also going haywire. This new version served a more informative goal, as opposed to the old version's main purpose of entertainment, and contained details about the 9/11 attacks. The simulator has received mixed reviews, with assessments of the ride ranging from \"great\" to \"satisfactory\" to \"corny\".\n\nThe building was originally equipped with white searchlights atop the tower. They saw their first use in November 1932 when they lit up to signal Roosevelt's victory over Hoover in the presidential election of that year. These were later swapped for four \"Freedom Lights\" in 1956. In February 1964, flood lights were added on the 72nd floor to illuminate the top of the building at night so that the building could be seen from the World Fair later that year. The lights were shut off from November 1973 to July 1974 because of the energy crisis at the time. In 1976, the businessman Douglas Leigh suggested that Helmsley install 204 metal-halide lights, which were four times as bright as the 1,000 incandescent lights they were to replace. New red, white, and blue metal-halide lights were installed in time for the country's bicentennial that July. After the bicentennial, Helmsley retained the new lights due to the reduced maintenance cost, about $116 a year.\n\nSince 1976, the spire has been lit in colors chosen to match seasonal events and holidays. Organizations are allowed to make requests through the building's website. The building is also lit in the colors of New York-based sports teams on nights when they host games: for example, orange, blue, and white for the New York Knicks; red, white, and blue for the New York Rangers. It was twice lit in scarlet to support New Jersey's Rutgers University, once for a football game against the University of Louisville on November 9, 2006, and again on April 3, 2007 when the women's basketball team played in the national championship game.\n\nThere have also been special occasions where the lights are modified from the usual schedule. After the eightieth birthday, and subsequent death, of Frank Sinatra in 1998, for example, the building was bathed in blue light to represent the singer's nickname \"Ol' Blue Eyes\". After actress Fay Wray, who starred in \"King Kong\", died in September 2004, the building lights were extinguished for 15 minutes. The floodlights bathed the building in red, white, and blue for several months after the destruction of the World Trade Center in September 2001, then reverted to the standard schedule. On June 4, 2002, the Empire State Building donned purple and gold (the royal colors of Elizabeth II), in thanks for the United Kingdom playing the Star Spangled Banner during the Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace on September 12, 2001 (a show of support after the September 11 attacks). On January 13, 2012, the building was lit in red, orange, and yellow to honor the 60th anniversary of NBC program \"The Today Show\". From June 1 to 3, 2012, the building was lit in blue and white, the colors of the Israeli flag, in honor of the 49th annual Celebrate Israel Parade.\n\nDuring 2012, the building's four hundred metal halide lamps and floodlights were replaced with 1,200 LED fixtures, increasing the available colors from nine to over 16 million. The computer-controlled system allows the building to be illuminated in ways that were unable to be done previously with plastic gels. For instance, on November 6, 2012, CNN used the top of the Empire State Building as a scoreboard for the 2012 United States presidential election. When incumbent president Barack Obama had reached the 270 electoral votes necessary to win re-election, the lights turned blue, representing the color of Obama's Democratic Party. Had Republican challenger Mitt Romney won, the building would have been lit red, the color of the Republican Party. Also, on November 26, 2012, the building had its first ever synchronized light show, using music from recording artist Alicia Keys. The building's owners adhere to strict standards in using the lights; for instance, they do not use the lights to play advertisements.\n\nThe longest world record held by the Empire State Building was for the tallest skyscraper (to structural height), which it held for 42 years until it was surpassed by the North Tower of the World Trade Center in October 1970. The Empire State Building was also the tallest man-made structure in the world before it was surpassed by the Griffin Television Tower Oklahoma (KWTV Mast) in 1954, and the tallest freestanding structure in the world until the completion of the Ostankino Tower in 1967. An early-1970s proposal to dismantle the spire and replace it with an additional 11 floors, which would have brought the building's height to 1,494 feet (455 m) and made it once again the world's tallest at the time, was considered but ultimately rejected.\n\nWith the destruction of the World Trade Center in the September 11 attacks, the Empire State Building again became the tallest building in New York City, and the second-tallest building in the Americas, surpassed only by the Willis Tower in Chicago. The Empire State Building remained the tallest building in New York until the new One World Trade Center reached a greater height in April 2012. , it is the fourth-tallest building in New York City after One World Trade Center, 432 Park Avenue, and 30 Hudson Yards. It is the fifth-tallest completed skyscraper in the United States behind the two other tallest buildings in New York City, as well as the Willis Tower and Trump International Hotel and Tower in Chicago. The Empire State Building is the 28th-tallest in the world , the tallest being Burj Khalifa in Dubai. It is also the sixth-tallest freestanding structure in the Americas behind the five tallest buildings and the CN Tower.\n\n, the building houses around 1,000 businesses. Current tenants include:\nFormer tenants include:\n\nAt 9:40 am on July 28, 1945, a B-25 Mitchell bomber, piloted in thick fog by Lieutenant Colonel William Franklin Smith Jr., crashed into the north side of the Empire State Building between the 79th and 80th floors where the offices of the National Catholic Welfare Council were located. One engine completely penetrated the building, landing on the roof of a nearby building where it started a fire that destroyed a penthouse. The other engine and part of the landing gear plummeted down an elevator shaft causing a fire, which was extinguished in 40 minutes. Fourteen people were killed in the incident. Elevator operator Betty Lou Oliver survived a plunge of 75 stories inside an elevator, which still stands as the Guinness World Record for the longest survived elevator fall recorded.\n\nDespite the damage and loss of life, the building was open for business on many floors two days later. The crash helped spur the passage of the long-pending Federal Tort Claims Act of 1946, as well as the insertion of retroactive provisions into the law, allowing people to sue the government for the incident. Also as a result of the crash, the Civil Aeronautics Administration enacted strict regulations regarding flying over New York City, setting a minimum flying altitude of above sea level regardless of the weather conditions.\n\nA year later, on July 24, 1946, another aircraft narrowly missed striking the building. The unidentified twin-engine plane scraped past the observation deck, scaring the tourists there.\n\nOn January 24, 2000, an elevator in the building suddenly descended 40 stories after a cable that controlled the cabin's maximum speed was severed. The elevator fell from the 44th floor to the fourth floor, where a narrowed elevator shaft provided a second safety system. Despite the 40-floor fall, both of the passengers in the cabin at the time were only slightly injured. Since that elevator had no fourth-floor doors, the passengers were rescued by an adjacent elevator. After the fall, building inspectors reviewed all of the building's elevators.\n\nBecause of the building's iconic status, it and other Midtown landmarks are popular locations for suicide attempts. More than 30 people have attempted suicide over the years by jumping from the upper parts of the building, with most attempts being successful.\n\nThe first suicide from the building occurred on April 7, 1931, before the tower was even completed, when a carpenter who had been laid-off went to the 58th floor and jumped. The first suicide after the building's opening occurred from the 86th floor observatory in February 1935, when Irma P. Eberhardt fell onto a marquee sign. On December 16, 1943, William Lloyd Rambo jumped to his death from the 86th floor, landing amidst Christmas shoppers on the street below. In the early morning of September 27, 1946, shell-shocked Marine Douglas W. Brashear Jr. jumped from the 76th-floor window of the Grant Advertising Agency; police found his shoes from his body.\n\nOn May 1, 1947, Evelyn McHale leapt to her death from the 86th floor observation deck and landed on a limousine parked at the curb. Photography student Robert Wiles took a photo of McHale's oddly intact corpse a few minutes after her death. The police found a suicide note among possessions that she left on the observation deck: \"He is much better off without me... I wouldn't make a good wife for anybody\". The photo ran in the May 12, 1947 edition of \"Life\" magazine and is often referred to as \"The Most Beautiful Suicide\". It was later used by visual artist Andy Warhol in one of his prints entitled \"Suicide (Fallen Body)\". A mesh fence was put up around the 86th floor terrace in December 1947 after five people tried to jump during a three-week span in October and November of that year. By then, sixteen people had died from suicide jumps.\n\nOnly one person has jumped from the upper observatory. Frederick Eckert of Astoria ran past a guard in the enclosed 102nd floor gallery on November 3, 1932 and jumped a gate leading to an outdoor catwalk intended for dirigible passengers. He landed and died on the roof of the 86th floor observation promenade.\n\nTwo people have survived falls by not falling more than a floor. On December 2, 1979, Elvita Adams jumped from the 86th floor, only to be blown back onto a ledge on the 85th floor by a gust of wind and left with a broken hip. On April 25, 2013, a man fell from the 86th floor observation deck, but he landed alive with minor injuries on an 85th-floor ledge where security guards brought him inside and paramedics transferred him to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation.\n\nTwo fatal shootings have occurred in the direct vicinity of the Empire State Building. Abu Kamal, a 69-year-old Palestinian teacher, shot seven people on the 86th floor observation deck during the afternoon of February 23, 1997. He killed one person and wounded six others before committing suicide. Kamal reportedly committed the shooting in response to events happening in Palestine and Israel.\n\nOn the morning of August 24, 2012, 58-year-old Jeffrey T. Johnson shot and killed a former co-worker on the building's Fifth Avenue sidewalk. He had been laid off from his job in 2011. Two police officers confronted the gunman, and he aimed his firearm at them. They responded by firing 16 shots, killing him but also wounding nine bystanders. Most of the injured were hit by bullet fragments, although three took direct hits from bullets.\n\nAs the tallest building in the world and the first one to exceed 100 floors, the Empire State Building immediately became an icon of the city and of the nation. In 2013, \"Time\" magazine noted that the Empire State Building \"seems to completely embody the city it has become synonymous with\". The historian John Tauranac calls the tower \"'the' twentieth-century New York building\", despite the existence of taller and more modernist buildings. Early in the building's history, travel companies such as Short Line Motor Coach Service and New York Central Railroad used the building as an icon to symbolize the city. After the construction of the first World Trade Center, architect Paul Goldberger noted that the Empire State Building \"is famous for being tall, but it is good enough to be famous for being good.\"\n\nAs an icon of the United States, it is also very popular among Americans. In a 2007 survey, the American Institute of Architects found that the Empire State Building was \"America's favorite building\". The building was originally a symbol of hope in a country devastated by the Depression, as well as a work of accomplishment by newer immigrants. The writer Benjamin Flowers states that the Empire State was \"a building intended to celebrate a new America, built by men (both clients and construction workers) who were themselves new Americans.\" The architectural critic Jonathan Glancey refers to the building as an \"icon of American design\".\n\nThe Empire State Building has been hailed as an example of a \"wonder of the world\" due to the massive effort expended during construction. \"The Washington Star\" listed it as part of one of the \"seven wonders of the modern world\" in 1931, while \"Holiday\" magazine wrote in 1958 that the Empire State's height would be taller than the combined heights of the Eiffel Tower and the Great Pyramid of Giza. The American Society of Civil Engineers also declared the building \"A Modern Civil Engineering Wonder of the United States\" in 1958, and one of the Seven Wonders of the Modern World in 1994. Ron Miller, in a 2010 book, also described the Empire State Building as one of the \"seven wonders of engineering\". It has often been called the Eighth Wonder of the World as well, an appellation that it has held since shortly after opening. The panels installed in the lobby in 1963 reflected this, showing the seven original wonders alongside the Empire State Building.\n\nAs an icon of New York City, the Empire State Building has been featured in various films, books, TV shows, and video games. According to the building's official website, more than 250 movies contain depictions of the Empire State Building. In his book about the building, John Tauranac writes that the first documented appearance of the tower in popular culture was \"Swiss Family Manhattan\", a 1932 children's story by Christopher Morley. A year later, the film \"King Kong\" depicted Kong, a large stop motion ape that climbs the Empire State Building, bringing the building into the popular imagination. Later movies such as \"An Affair to Remember\" (1957), \"Sleepless in Seattle\" (1993), and \"Independence Day\" (1996) also featured the building. The building has also been featured in other works, such as \"Daleks in Manhattan\", a 2007 episode of the TV series \"Doctor Who\"; and \"Empire\", an eight-hour black-and-white silent film by Andy Warhol, which was later added to the Library of Congress's National Film Registry.\n\nThe Empire State Building Run-Up, a foot race from ground level to the 86th-floor observation deck, has been held annually since 1978. Its participants are referred to both as runners and as climbers, and are often tower running enthusiasts. The race covers a vertical distance of 1,050 feet (320 m) and takes in 1,576 steps. The record time is 9 minutes and 33 seconds, achieved by Australian professional cyclist Paul Crake in 2003, at a climbing rate of per hour.\n\nESRT began trading publicly on the New York Stock Exchange on October 2, 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50867351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50867351", "title": "Essar leaks", "text": "Essar leaks\n\nThe Essar leaks include e-mails, office memos, telephone conversations and other records allegedly leaked from the systems of the Indian business conglomerate Essar Group. The leaked records allegedly contain evidence of politician-corporate nexus in India, and show how business interests unfairly manipulate Indian government and judiciary.\n\nIn 2015, an unnamed whistleblower leaked a set of internal e-mails and memos from the Essar Group, alleging that the conglomerate had granted favours to several politicians, bureaucrats and journalists. Essar denied the allegations, terming the alleged favours as \"common courtesies\" that are legally justifiable. Essar also claimed that some of the leaked material was fabricated, and was being used to blackmail them.\n\nIn May 2016, lawyer Suren Uppal reported the existence of a new set of secretly recorded conversations to the Prime Minister. The conversations involve influential politicians, bureaucrats, businesspeople, bankers, and other VIPs. Uppal claimed to have received these tapes from the former Essar employee Albasit Khan, and alleged that the Essar officials illegally tapped these conversations during the 2000s. In June 2016, after the \"Outlook\" magazine made Uppal's claims public, Khan denied Essar's role in tapping the conversations. He acknowledged the existence of the tapes, but stated he had received these tapes from the now-deceased Mumbai Police officer Vijay Salaskar, a claim denied by Mumbai Police. According to Khan, the ultimate source and authenticity of the tapes are unknown. He admitted to having informed Uppal about the tapes, but accused Uppal of fabricating the Essar link to extort money from the business. Uppal denied the allegations, and promised to release the tapes to the Supreme Court of India. Essar completely denied the story, accusing Suren Uppal of being an extortionist.\n\nIn 2015, a whistleblower approached lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, and leaked a set of internal e-mails and memos from Essar Group. The material indicated that Essar Group had granted favours to several politicians, bureaucrats and journalists. This led to allegations that Essar had been trying to unfairly influence public policy and opinion. Bhushan's Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) filed a PIL before the Supreme Court of India, requesting an investigation into these allegations. The Essar Group filed an affidavit seeking dismissal of the PIL, calling the favours as legally justifiable \"common courtesies\".\n\nOn 1 June 2016, the Delhi-based lawyer Suren Uppal submitted a 29-page complaint to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that Essar had tapped VIP conversations during 2000s. According to Uppal, the Essar Group had carried out the surveillance on the Prime Minister's Office (starting with A. B. Vajpayee), the cabinet ministers, government bureaucrats and rival businesspeople.\n\nAccording to Uppal, the tapping was done under the supervision of Albasit Khan (or Basit Khan), a former head of security and vigilance at Essar Group. Uppal claims to be Khan's former legal representative, and has alleged that Khan was forced to resign from Essar in 2011, after being accused of keeping back some of the recorded conversations. He has alleged that \"special mobile SIM cards or the mobile interceptor mobile SIM cards\" were used to tap the conversations. Until 2005, the surveillance was carried out over the BPL Mobile network, which had been under Essar's control. The network was also used by Essar's rival Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), which allowed Essar to tap their conversations. However, RIL moved out of this network after 2005. After that, Essar allegedly used Hutchison network for the tapping.\n\nIn June 2016, the \"Outlook\" magazine published a report on these tapped conversations. Subsequently, Albasit Khan told the media that Essar had not recorded these conversations, and stated that their source and authenticity were unknown. Khan acknowledged the existence of tapes containing the conversations, but stated that the Mumbai Police officer Vijay Salaskar had given these tapes to him for \"safekeeping\" in 2005. Mumbai Police denied this, and \"Outlook\" doubted Khan's claim, pointing out that the tapes include conversations from as late as 2011. Khan admitted that had had met Uppal in January 2016, and had informed him about the tapes. But he denied hiring Uppal as his lawyer. Khan alleged Uppal of fabricating the Essar link to extort money from the business. In response, Uppal claimed that he and Khan had been working to \"expose\" the tapping, but Khan backed out under Essar Group's influence. He promised to hand over the alleged tapes to the Supreme Court as part of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL).\n\nEssar is said to have recorded the conversations of following people:\n\nThe Essar leaks allegedly show that the businesses unfair influencely influenced the Indian government and judiciary during both UPA and NDA tenures. The leaks include the following:\n\n\nIn the 2015 affidavit seeking dismissial of CPIL's request for investigation, the Essar Group stated that they had not derived any benefits from the alleged favours. The affidavit stated that there was no evidence of any criminal offence by Essar Group, and the alleged favours \"common courtesies extended by corporate houses\".\n\nEssar filed a police complaint for data theft, and threatened legal action against media outlets that publish \"any allegations based on any email stolen from the system\":\n\nWhen \"The Caravan\" published a cover story critical of the company, the Essar group filed a 2500 million defamation suit against the magazine.\n\nEssar also questioned the authenticity of the leaked e-mails, calling them \"unverified\" and \"pure hearsay\". It stated that the company had not recruited people based solely on VIP recommendations, calling such recommendations legal and proper in Indian context.\n\nEssar accused CPIL of launching a smear campaign against them to seek publicity.\n\nBJP leader Nitin Gadkari denied extending any favours to the Essar Group, while commenting on his Essar-sponsored yacht stays. He stated that he was not a minister or the BJP President at the time, and paid for his family's Norway vacation using his own money. When Ruias (Essar owners) learned that he was visiting Europe, they invited him to their yacht as a family friend.\n\nSriprakash Jaiswal and Digvijaya Singh defended themselves stating they regularly make referrals to companies, to help unemployed people. Varun Gandhi stated that his office regularly gave letters of recommendations to educated unemployed youth after \"satisfying their bonafide credentials.\"\n\nJournalists Anupama Airy and Sandeep Bamzai resigned after being named among those for whom Essar had arranged cabs. Airy stated that she had requested a cab from Essar \"as help from a friend\", and not as a journalist. She also expressed displeasure at being singled out, stating that other journalists at \"Hindustan Times\" had sought such help from businesses in the past. Bamzai denied publishing any biased news to favour Essar Group, and stated that asking them for a cab was simply \"a stupid mistake\". Meetu Jain had asked Essar for a cab in 2012, when she was working with CNN-IBN. At the time her name was released, she was working as a Deputy News Editor at Times Now, which initiated an internal inquiry against her.\n\nThe Aam Aadmi Party and the Indian National Congress demanded that the alleged tapes be made public.\n\nThe Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the Home Ministry to conduct an inquiry, and submit a detailed report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13789612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13789612", "title": "Ethics in pharmaceutical sales", "text": "Ethics in pharmaceutical sales\n\nThe ethics involved within pharmaceutical sales is built from the organizational ethics, which is a matter of system compliance, accountability and culture (Grace & Cohen, 2005). Organizational ethics are used when developing the marketing and sales strategy to both the public and the healthcare profession of the strategy. Organizational ethics are best demonstrated through acts of fairness, compassion, integrity, honor, and responsibility.\n\nThe pharmaceutical industry is a highly competitive business and its success is dependent on the sales and marketing of each drug. The cost of research and development for each drug is hundreds of millions of dollars. In 2005 the research and development expenditure for the biopharmaceutical industry within Europe and the US was 15,474 million euro.(The Pharma Industry Figures, 2006). Some health economists peg the current cost of drug development at US$1.3 billion, others at US$1.7 billion The actual drug discovery and the drug development can take years. After which, testing and clinical trials are required prior to getting approval by regulatory boards. After launching the drug the company has much at stake as it has already outlaid millions of dollars the success of its sales is an important factor to the success of the company.\n\nA pharmaceutical sales representative is the key part within the sales of all drugs. They are responsible to ensure the healthcare profession is informed of the benefits of the drug along with the safety and the side effects to assist a healthcare profession as the correct information and choices to prescribe medication to the patients. The term used is ethical promotion, which can be described as communication of ethical values to promote their product to the physician. (Wright & Lundstrom, 2004)\n\nThe European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) stipulates that there is a Corporate Social responsibility for the pharmaceutical industry to recognize and acknowledge the need to act responsibly towards society and the communities in which it operates.\n\nThe EFPIA has also code of practice on the promotion of medicine, which entails the regulations over many areas of the promotion of medicine. These include events and hospitality that can be extended by a pharmaceutical company. Gifts and inducements must be inexpensive and provide value to the practice of medicine or pharmacy. All medical sales representatives must have the adequate training and sufficient scientific knowledge to provide relevant and precise information about the products. They must also comply with the requirements of the applicable codes.\n\nIn 2002 the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, issued a set of guidelines for its member companies to follow when it comes to the relationship between drug reps and doctors. The voluntary code significantly changed how drug company representatives interact with doctors. Changes range from restricting gifts to limiting consulting contracts offered to doctors.\n\nPhRMA was inspired to come up with the code after years of criticism from groups like Families USA and Public Citizen. PhRMA already had a set of guidelines on this topic but its board decided that one of the best ways to thwart the criticism and prevent any appearance of impropriety was to come up with a stricter code.\n\n\"The PhRMA guidelines are one major factor contributing to a paradigm shift that directly impacts the way our industry conducts business,\"\"Because of this shift, pharmaceutical sales forces must learn new and more compelling ways to create and keep customers, or perish because physicians are no longer willing to listen to their usual approach,\" said Susan Torroella, CEO of Columbia MedCom Group.\n\nPhRMA is opposed to state laws that regulate interaction between pharmaceutical sales representatives and health care providers. PhRMA officials said state regulations could create a patchwork of conflicting rules across the states that might do more to confuse sales representatives and doctors than prevent improper perks.\"We do have the comprehensive guidelines combined with the guidelines of the Office of Inspector General. Not only would state laws be a duplication, it could be nightmarish because you would have differing standards for different states,\" said Jeff Trewhitt, a spokesman for PhRMA.\n\nAfter PhRMA enacted its guidelines, the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services issued guidelines similar to PhRMA's code, except with more severe penalties. Companies that fail to follow the department's rules could face a federal investigation that could lead to civil penalties.\n\nPharmaceutical fraud involves activities that result in false claims to insurers or programs such as Medicare in the United States or equivalent state programs for financial gain to a pharmaceutical company. There are several different schemes used to defraud the health care system which are particular to the pharmaceutical industry. These include: Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Violations, Off Label Marketing, Best Price Fraud, CME Fraud, Medicaid Price Reporting, and Manufactured Compound Drugs. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) estimates that health care fraud costs American taxpayers $60 billion a year. Of this amount $2.5 billion was recovered through \"False Claims Act\" cases in FY 2010. Examples of fraud cases include the Pfizer $2.3 billion settlement and Merck $650 million settlement. Damages from fraud can be recovered by use of the False Claims Act, most commonly under the \"qui tam\" provisions which rewards an individual for being a \"whistleblower\", or relator (law).\n\nAntipsychotic drugs are now the top-selling class of pharmaceuticals in America, generating annual revenue of about $14.6 billion. Every major company selling the drugs — Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson — has either settled recent government cases, under the False Claims Act, for hundreds of millions of dollars or is currently under investigation for possible health care fraud. Following charges of illegal marketing, two of the settlements set records last year for the largest criminal fines ever imposed on corporations. One involved Eli Lilly’s antipsychotic Zyprexa, and the other involved Bextra. In the Bextra case, the government also charged Pfizer with illegally marketing another antipsychotic, Geodon; Pfizer settled that part of the claim for $301 million, without admitting any wrongdoing.\n\nOn 2 July 2012, GlaxoSmithKline pleaded guilty to criminal charges and agreed to a $3 billion settlement of the largest health-care fraud case in the U.S. and the largest payment by a drug company. The settlement is related to the company's illegal promotion of prescription drugs, its failure to report safety data, bribing doctors, and promoting medicines for uses for which they were not licensed. The drugs involved were Paxil, Wellbutrin, Advair, Lamictal, and Zofran for off-label, non-covered uses. Those and the drugs Imitrex, Lotronex, Flovent, and Valtrex were involved in the kickback scheme.\n\nThe following is a list of the four largest settlements reached with pharmaceutical companies from 1991 to 2012, rank ordered by the size of the total settlement. Legal claims against the pharmaceutical industry have varied widely over the past two decades, including Medicare and Medicaid fraud, off-label promotion, and inadequate manufacturing practices.\n\nSome physicians have joined an organization No free lunch which asked physicians to make a pledge to not accept any pharmaceutical companies gifts no matter how large or small. The members base that gift giving forms relationships, which influences behaviour and creates a conflict of interest. (No Free Lunch)\n\n\n\"Big Pharma: How the World's Biggest Drug Companies Control Illness\" (2006) by Jacky Law\n\n\"Side Effects\" (2008) by Alison Bass\n\n\"Anatomy of an Epidemic\" (2010) by Robert Whitaker\n\n\"Bad Pharma: How drug companies mislead doctors and harm patients\" (2012) by Ben Goldacre\n"}
{"id": "39082163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39082163", "title": "Fahim bin Sultan Al Qasimi", "text": "Fahim bin Sultan Al Qasimi\n\nFahim bin Sultan Al Qasimi (Arabic: فاهم بن سلطان القاسمي; born 1948) is an Emirati lawyer, diplomat, politician and businessman. He served as the second secretary general of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) from 1993 to 1996.\n\nQasimi was born in 1948. He hails from a family based in Ras Al Khaimah. He is a member of the ruling family of the Ras Al Khaimah Emirate, Al Qasimi, and the cousin of the ruler. Qasimi has five brothers and five sisters. He holds a law degree, which he earned from Cairo University in 1974, and a master's degree in international politics, which he received from Johns Hopkins University in 1977.\n\nQasimi began his career in the 1970s as a legal consultant and litigator for companies doing business in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Then he joined the foreign ministry in 1975. He was the ambassador of the UAE to the United Nations and consul-general in Geneva from 1977 to 1980. He served as the UAE's permanent representative at the United Nations in New York from 1980 to 1984. During the same period he was also non-resident ambassador of the UAE to Canada.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1992 he was the director of the legal department at the foreign ministry. Then he was appointed secretary of the GCC in April 1993, replacing Abdullah Bishara. During his term, Qasimi supported the idea that the dispute over the islands in the Gulf should be settled through intervantion of neutral third parties or of the international agencies like the international court of justice in the Hague. Qasimi's tenure lasted until April 1996. He was replaced by Saudi diplomat Jamil Ibrahim Hejailan.\n\nQasimi was appointed minister of economy and commerce of the UAE in March 1997. He replaced Said Ghobash in the post. Qasimi's tenure lasted until November 2004 when he was replaced by his cousin Sheikha Lubna Al Qasimi, the first woman assumed this post in the country, in a reshuffle. In the same reshufle, he became the minister of supreme council and GCC affairs. He retired from office in February 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Qasimi co-founded an Emirati-owned law firm and was the chairman of that firm until 2013.\nIn March 2013, Qasimi co-founded a new law firm, Qasimi Law Partners (d/b/a QLP MENA), and is the chairman of the firm. He is also the chairman of the Emirates Golf Federation and Arab Golf Federation.\n\nQasimi is married to a Lebanese-American, Linda Usra Soffan. She published a book, entitled \"The Status of Women in the UAE\", in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "42584827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42584827", "title": "Fair Food Program", "text": "Fair Food Program\n\nThe Fair Food Program (FFP) is a legally binding agreement between the Florida Tomato Growers and the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW). It aims to provide Florida’s tomato workers with better wages and working conditions. The program has a list of six elements in order to ensure social responsibility and to create a strong partnership between workers, growers and buyers. The Fair Foods Standards Council (FFSC) oversees the program and ensures that standards are upheld. Big companies, including Taco Bell and Walmart have pledged to pay a penny more per pound of tomatoes and buy only from growers who comply with the program.\n\nThe Fair Food Program emerged from the Coalition of Immokalee Workers' Campaign for Fair Food. The campaign was launched in 2001 by farmworkers in Immokalee, Florida.\n\nThe Fair Food Standards Council (FFSC) oversees the program and ensures that standards are upheld. Judge Laura Safer Espinoza, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice is the Executive Director of the FFSC.\n\nIn 2005, after the CIW boycotted Taco Bell for almost four years, the company agreed to sign a Fair Food Agreement, committing the company to pay a “penny more per pound” on its tomatoes, to be passed on as wage bonus to tomato harvesters, and to work with CIW to improve conditions in the fields. College campuses were a major impetus for this agreement; twenty-two colleges banned Taco Bell from operating. The CIW then targeted McDonald’s for two years; in 2007, McDonald's signed a Fair Food Agreement with CIW. Other fast-food chains and food retailers followed suit.\n\nDespite this success, in 2007, the Florida Tomato Growers, which is the state’s largest tomato producer, slowed the CIW’s progress. They threatened farms with $100,000 worth of fines if they passed through \"penny per pound\" monies. In 2010, Pacific Tomato Growers and Lipman, two of the nation’s largest producers, signed on to the program, effectively ending the industry boycott. Just months later, the Florida Tomato Growers Exchange signed onto the Fair Food Program, which began widespread implementation of the model.\n\nWalmart joined the Fair Food Program on January 16, 2014. The company sells 20% of the United States’ fresh tomatoes. Walmart additionally agreed to help expand the Program outside of Florida and expand into other crops.\n\nThe Fair Food Program has completed four year of implementation across the Florida tomato industry as well as its first year of expansion to Florida-based tomato growers’ operations in Georgia, North and South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland and New Jersey. The program is currently expanding to strawberries and green bell peppers in Florida. The Fair Food Standards Council publishes detailed metrics annually, charting the program's implementation.\n\nFrom November 2011 through September 2015, farmworkers have brought forth over 1100 complaints. The FFSC has conducted more than 120 audits, interviewed 12,000 workers and completed 45 site visits. The CIW has conducted 400 education sessions, which has educated 35,000 workers about their rights. Buyers have paid nearly $20 million in the Fair Food Premium, which goes directly to workers as a line-item bonus on their paychecks. According to the CIW, “today, virtually all Florida tomato growers have joined the Fair Food Program.” \"'When I first visited Immokalee, I heard appalling stories of abuse and modern slavery,' said Susan L. Marquis, dean of the Pardee RAND Graduate School, a public policy institution in Santa Monica, Calif. 'But now the tomato fields in Immokalee are probably the best working environment in American agriculture. In the past three years, they’ve gone from being the worst to the best.'\" ”\n\nThe CIW is developing a consumer-facing \"Fair Food Label\" to help promote the program in supermarkets.\n\n\nAhold USA, Aramark, Bon Appétit Management Co., Burger King, Chipotle Mexican Grill, Compass Group, Sodexo, The Fresh Market, McDonald's, Subway, Trader Joe’s, Walmart, Whole Foods Market, and Yum Brands.\n\nAg-Mart Produce, DiMare Homestead, DiMare Ruskin, Gargiulo, Gulfstream Tomato Packers, Harllee Packing, Kern Carpenter Farms, Lady Moon Farms, Lipman Produce, Pacific Tomato Growers, Taylor and Fulton Packing, Tomatoes of Ruskin, and West Coast Tomato/McClure Farms \n"}
{"id": "28497759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28497759", "title": "Fernando Ulrich", "text": "Fernando Ulrich\n\nFernando Maria Costa Duarte Ulrich (born 26 April 1952 in Lisbon) is a Portuguese economist and banking administrator. He has been the Chief Executive Officer of Banco Português de Investimento (BPI) since 2004.\n\nThe Ulrich family, whose members used to traditionally deal with banking and architecture, was originally German from Hamburg, Holy Roman Empire, but established themselves in Portugal during the mid-18th century. After an invitation of the Marquis of Pombal they worked in the reconstruction of Lisbon after the 1755 Lisbon earthquake. \n\nBorn in 1952 in Santa Isabel, Lisbon, Fernando Ulrich was the first child and only son of João Jorge de Melo Ulrich and Maria Isabel Buzaglo Costa Duarte (of maternal Sephardi Jewish descent), and grandson of both an administrator of the Banco de Portugal and a broker and insurance professional. Young Fernando attended the Business Management Course at the \"Instituto Superior de Economia de Lisboa\" of the Technical University of Lisbon from 1969 to 1974, but he did not graduate.\n\nFernando Ulrich was Deputy Manager of \"Sociedade Portuguesa de Investimentos\" (SPI) from 1983 to 1985 and Chief of the Cabinet of the Portuguese Minister of Finance from 1981 to 1983, when Francisco Pinto Balsemão was the head of the Government of Portugal. He was among the Portuguese Delegation to the OECD, from 1975 to 1979 and was Head of the Financial Markets Unit of the weekly newspaper Expresso, founded by Francisco Pinto Balsemão, from 1973 to 1974. He has been a member of the Board of Directors of Impresa since 2000, and non-executive Director of Allianz Portugal since 1999. He served as a Member on the Board of Directors of PT Multimedia-Serviços de Telecomunicações e Multimedia, SGPS, S.A. from August 2002 to September 2004. He served as a Director of Portugal Telecom SGPS SA from 1998 to July 2005. He served as an Executive Director of BPI-Banco Português de Investimento, SA from 1985 to 1989. He also served as Member of the Adviser Board of CIP (The Portuguese Industrial Confederation) from 2002 to 2004. He was Member of the Secretariat for the External Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1979 to 1980. He served as a Director of Semapa - Sociedade de Investimento e Gestao SGPS SA until February 2009.\n\nHe married in Cascais on 8 November 1974 Isabel Diana de Bettencourt de Melo e Castro, born in Cascais on 16 February 1954, daughter of Engineer José Lobo de Almeida de Melo e Castro, 11th Count of \"as\" Galveias and 2nd Viscount of \"a\" Lourinhã, of the Counts of \"de\" Avilez and Viscounts of \"o\" Reguengo, and wife Daisy Maria Cohen de Bettencourt de Vasconcelos Correia e Ávila of the Counts of Correia \"de\" Bettencourt and of the Viscounts of \"de\" Bettencourt, of Sephardi Jewish, Spanish and Italian descent. The couple had three children: \n"}
{"id": "455012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455012", "title": "Fountain Place", "text": "Fountain Place\n\nFountain Place is a 60-story late-modernist skyscraper in downtown Dallas, Texas. Standing at a structural height of , it is the fifth-tallest building in Dallas, and the 15th-tallest in Texas.\n\nOriginal plans for the project called for twin towers, with the second tower rotated 90 degrees from the original, to be built on an adjacent block, but with the collapse of the Texas oil, banking and real estate industry and the savings and loan scandal of in the 1980s, the project was never completed. \n\nThe building was designed by the award winning architects Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, with Henry N. Cobb as design partner, and was completed in 1986. \n\nThe building gets its name from the array of 172 dancing fountains in the plaza at its base with a fully automated water show as the centerpiece. The fountains were an extreme undertaking and the first concept of their kind on such a large scale. WET Design company was brought in to facilitate the project; it was the company's first major project since the founders left Disney to team up. WET collaborated with the firm of I. M. Pei as well as landscape architects Dan Kiley and Peter Ker Walker to create the waterscape of Fountain Place (at Allied Bank Tower) in Dallas, Texas. The project showed the first use of WET's patented open-jointed paving in a fountain where shots of water appear from the openings in the plaza's surface. After completion of Fountain Place, WET went on to design other notable fountains such as the Bellagio fountains in Las Vegas and The Dubai Fountain.\n\nThe building is known for its unique architecture—it was designed as a large, multi-faceted prism. Its various slanted sides cause the building to have a completely different profile from all directions.\n\nAt the time of its opening it was the second tallest building in the city behind Bank of America. However, upon completion of Comerica Bank Tower and Chase Tower it fell to fourth. Renaissance Tower then added an antenna spire atop of its roof to vault itself back into skyline notoriety and supplant Fountain Place to fifth tallest. \n\nOn September 24, 2009 the FBI arrested 19-year-old Hosam Maher Husein Smadi of Jordan for an alleged attempt to bomb the skyscraper. Smadi was living and working in Italy, Texas, and had been under FBI investigation for some time.\n\nFountain Place is the headquarters of Tenet Healthcare. Tenet Healthcare announced in 2008 that it was moving from the northern suburban areas of Dallas to Fountain Place due to high gasoline prices and the revitalization of downtown Dallas. Trevor Fetter, the company's then president and chief executive, credited the Dallas Area Rapid Transit light rail and the concept of an urban location for his decision to move to Downtown Dallas.\n\nFountain Place contains many financial institutions and offices including Wells Fargo. Originally cited as First Interstate Tower or Allied Bank Tower, it was after the 1988 merger of Wells Fargo that the building became known as Fountain Place, becoming the only major skyscraper in Dallas not to lend its name to the occupying bank.\n\nFountain Place also serves as Region 6 headquarters for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. \n\nHunt Oil operated out of Fountain Place until they built new headquarters across the street in 2007.\n\nIn seasons 10–14 of \"Dallas\", exterior shots of the building were used for the offices of Bobby Ewing's Petro Group Dallas, which later became Ewing Oil.\n\nThe building's dancing fountains were used for scenes in the movie Blank Check.\n\nExterior shots of the building are seen in the USA Network TV series Queen of the South.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34121905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34121905", "title": "Greater Cleveland Aquarium", "text": "Greater Cleveland Aquarium\n\nThe Greater Cleveland Aquarium is an aquarium in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Occupying the historic FirstEnergy Powerhouse building located on the west bank of the Cuyahoga River in the city's Flats district, the aquarium which opened in January 2012 consists of approximately of exhibition space and features exhibits representing both local and exotic species of fish. The facility is the only free standing aquarium in the state of Ohio and ends a 26-year period that the city lacked a public aquarium.\n\nThe former Cleveland Aquarium opened on February 6, 1954, and was located on the city's near-east side in Gordon Park. It was created by the Cleveland Aquarium Society, a group formed in the 1940s, the City of Cleveland and the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, which operated the facility. The aquarium was housed in a building constructed in the 1930s that previously served as bath house. In 1943, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History converted it into a trailside museum, displaying local flora and fauna as well as exhibits of freshwater fish of Lake Erie. That museum closed in 1953 when the Cleveland Memorial Shoreway cut Gordon Park in two.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, which had previously had aquatic exhibits on its second floor of former home, moved to its own new building and consolidated its aquatic collection into the Cleveland Aquarium. The old Gordon Park trailside museum was renovated by Cleveland Aquarium Society volunteers for about $25,000.\n\nThe aquarium had 50 freshwater and marine exhibits including sharks, swordfish, sawfish, seahorses, eels, squid, octopus, and coral. It acquired a pair of Australian lungfish in 1966 and a school of red-bellied piranhas in 1970. Under the Natural History Museum's direction, the aquarium often drew more visitors than the building could handle. A $300,000 gift from the Leonard C. Hanna Foundation financed the construction of a new octagonal wing in 1967 that tripled the aquarium's size and increased its tank capacity from .\n\nDespite annual deficits experienced during decade, a city council override of a mayoral veto to increase the admission charges and keep aquarium operations with the museum was performed in 1979.\n\nStructural problems with the building forced the closing of the aquarium to the public in June 1985. The former aquarium site then became a police dog training facility for the City of Cleveland. On April 1, 1986, fish and exhibits were moved to the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, where they remain today in the Primate, Cat & Aquatics Building.\n\nThe second iteration was conceived in 2009. It was originally envisioned as a more ambitious facility that would cost over $50 million. However, planning of various forms occurred since the defunct Cleveland Aquarium closed in 1985. Although there were competing interests, the driving force behind the project was Jeffrey Jacobs, a local developer who was set on having a paying tenant for the Powerhouse, a complex he owned.\n\nThe eventual facility was a collaboration controlled by Jacobs. It was financed by a $2 million loan from the City of Cleveland, a $1.25 million investment from Marinescape, and an $11.75 million investment from the Nautica Phase 2 Limited Partnership, an affiliate of Jacobs Entertainment. The facility also supported by FirstEnergy and AMPCO, the parking lot operator for the Nautica Complex.\n\nA ribbon-cutting ceremony was held for the aquarium January 19, 2012, with the aquarium opening to the general public on January 21.\n\nJacobs Entertainment purchased the aquarium outright in 2014.\n\nThe total cost of the facility was roughly $33 million: $18 million for the building and its related infrastructure and $15 million for aquarium exhibits.\n\nAt the January 2012 opening, the aquarium 8 exhibition areas, including Ohio Lakes & Rivers, Lakes & Rivers of the World, Discovery Zone, Indo-Pacific, Northern Pacific, Coastal, Coral Reef and a main Shark SeaTube. It features a tank with a acrylic shark tunnel offering panoramic views of marine life, including sharks of various species.\n"}
{"id": "36499569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36499569", "title": "Igor Makarov (businessman)", "text": "Igor Makarov (businessman)\n\nIgor Viktorovich Makarov is a Russian businessman. He is the President of ARETI International Group (before 2015 - ITERA International Group with the main company of the group Itera Oil and Gas Company Ltd.).\n\nMakarov was born in Ashgabat (Turkmenistan) in 1962. He graduated from Turkmen State University in 1983, then served in the Army.\n\nIn 2012 Itera started a joint venture with Rosneft. Rosneft estimated that Itera's business was worth ca $3 billion.\n\nHe was a member of the USSR national cycling team, champion and prizewinner of the all-Union (USSR) and international cycling competitions. Makarov is also a Master of Sports of International Class.\n\nMakarov actively supports and sponsors the Russian national cycling movement. From 2010 to 2016, he was President of the Russian Cycling Federation (RCF) and in 2016 was elected as Honorary President of the Russian Cycling Federation. In March 2011, Makarov became a member of the Management Committee of the International Cycling Union, UCI.\n\nHe has been decorated with state awards from different countries for his significant contributions to developing economic relations and strengthening friendship and cooperation between the people. Among the awards are the Order of Friendship of Peoples and the Medal of Francisk Scorina (state awards of Belarus), the Friendship Medal (state award of Mongolia), the Order \"Gloria Muncii\" (Work Merit) (the state award of Moldova), as well as the Order of Holy Faithful Prince Daniel of Moscow and Innokenty the Sanctifier Metropolitan of Moscow and Kolomna, 3rd Class of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Order of Saint Sergius of Radonezh, 3rd Class of the Russian Orthodox Church, Honorary Reward \"Аkinfy Nikitich Demidov\" of the International Demidov's Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "9444121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9444121", "title": "Ivo Lukačovič", "text": "Ivo Lukačovič\n\nIvo Lukačovič (born February 7, 1974 in Prague) is a Czech entrepreneur, founder and chairman of Seznam.cz, an Internet portal in the Czech Republic. According to \"Forbes\" magazine he is the 15th richest person in Czech Republic with assets around $350 million.\n\nLukačovič was born in Prague, studied Czech Technical University in Prague, but terminated his studies after 7 years. In 1995 he started to write code for a web directory (in Perl) and since 1996 he has run the directory at Seznam.cz.\n\nIn 2011 he started Citationtech, which creates 3D maps from air pictures and in 2014 developed Windy.com, global server for analyzing wind. \n\nBetween 2010 and 2015 he reconstructed a historical Lockheed Electra 10A, which had previously been owned by J. A. Baťa. In 2015, the airplane was flown from Toronto to Točná Airport, where it became part of the private collection.\n\nIn 2016 he reacquired a 100% stake in his company Seznam.cz.\n\nIvo Lukačovič founded Windy.com, which provides a real-time meteorological map and can view 35 different weather phenomenons. It was founded back in 2014, and originally started as an amateur project. As of May 2018, had a team of 6 employees, and 300,000 users visiting the site per day.\n"}
{"id": "46577842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46577842", "title": "La Caravelle (New York City)", "text": "La Caravelle (New York City)\n\nLa Caravelle was a restaurant in New York City, specialising in French cuisine. It opened on September 21, 1960, at 33 West 55th Street in Manhattan. The restaurant was established by Fred Decré and Robert Meyzen, with Roger Fessaguet as head chef, and took its name from the type of sailing ships Christopher Columbus sailed on his voyages to the New World. \nLike most European restaurants, \"La Caravelle\" had a menu that changed daily. This made the restaurant popular with new customers and also brought them back regularly. Salvador Dalí, John Lindsay, Leland Hayward, Walter Cronkite and Dorothy Kilgallen often dined at the restaurant in its early years. President John F. Kennedy was especially fond of \"La Caravelle\"s vichyssoise and chicken in champagne sauce, and he often requested them as \"take out\" orders to eat on the plane while traveling. \nTwenty years after its opening, chef Roger Fessaguet left the kitchen to become an owner with Meyzen due to the retirement of Fred Decré. In 1984, Robert Meyzen retired and Fessaguet and André Jammet took over ownership of the restaurant. The following year, a \"New York Magazine\" article cited it as one of the best restaurants in New York City, and mentioned that most guidebooks gave it their highest rating. Fessaguet retired in 1988, leaving ownership with Jammet and his wife. The Jammets redecorated \"La Caravelle\" in 1990, replacing the original red carpets and banquettes with a color scheme of green and peach. Artist Nina Duran was hired to create a small mural for the restaurant's foyer. The restaurant closed on May 22, 2004, despite garnering the James Beard Foundation's Most Outstanding Restaurant in the Country award in the same year. The name is now known for champagnes produced by the Jammets; the restaurant began serving them as its house brand in 1997.\n\nThe restaurant was originally owned by Fred Decré and Robert Meyzen, with Roger Fessaguet as head chef. Decré and Meyzen, maîtres d’hôtel at \"Le Pavillon\", left there to open the restaurant in midtown Manhattan's Shoreham Hotel, hiring Fessaquet, who also worked at \"Le Pavillon\", as its first executive chef. The restaurant's name was taken from the type of sailing ships Christopher Columbus sailed on his voyages to the New World and represented their hopes for a new beginning in the restaurant business with its opening. Artist Jean Pagès was hired to create a series of murals depicting typical Parisian scenes for the space that was a speakeasy during the Prohibition era. Pagès added to the restaurant's murals in the 1960s; his work was accidentally altered by fellow artist Salvador Dalí when Dali scratched one of the murals with his cane while dining there with friends.\n\nLike most European restaurants, \"La Caravelle\" had a menu that changed daily. This made the restaurant popular with new customers and also brought them back regularly. Salvador Dalí, John Lindsay, Leland Hayward and Dorothy Kilgallen often dined at the restaurant in its early years. The journalist and broadcaster Walter Cronkite was a regular visitor to \"La Caravelle\" and enjoyed eating pike quenelles in lobster cream sauce. Other frequent visitors included the Duke and Duchess of Windsor and Marlene Dietrich.\n\nJoseph P. Kennedy had been a patron of \"Le Pavillon\", but after Decré and Meyzen opened their new restaurant, Kennedy switched his patronage to \"La Caravelle\", dining there regularly when in New York. It became a popular place for the Kennedy family to visit. Fessaguet chose and trained René Verdon to be chef at the White House when John F. Kennedy was elected president the year after opening. Verdon spent some weeks working with Fessaquet on the Kennedy family's favorite dishes. President Kennedy was especially fond of \"La Caravelle\"s vichyssoise and chicken in champagne sauce. He often requested them as \"take out\" orders and would have them heated up on the plane as he traveled. Decré and Meyzen renamed the dish on their menu; Poularde Maison Blanch then became \"White House Chicken\". In 1964, the Kennedys held a family reunion at La Caravelle; one of the subjects of discussion at the reunion was said to be whether Robert F. Kennedy should ask to be nominated as vice president at the upcoming 1964 Democratic National Convention. Joseph P. Kennedy was in attendance and walked into the restaurant with the aid of a cane.\n\nBy 7:30 a.m., head chef Fessaguet had decided on the day's lunch menu, estimated the number of diners \"La Caravelle\" would have and ordered the provisions for it. An hour later, the fresh vegetables were being peeled and sliced and the various sauces were on the stoves. The restaurant's pastry chef began his work on the various pastries and desserts for the day's lunch; the lunch preparations were completed and the kitchen staff could sit down for lunch. By noon, the waiters had donned their uniforms and the prepared food was on silver trays on a kitchen table. At 12:45, the orders for the day's luncheon guests began coming into the kitchen; by 2 p.m., 92 patrons had been served. \n\nIn 1973, \"La Caravelle\"s preparations for lunch were the subject of a short film, \"French Lunch,\" which depicts the behind-the scenes preparations of a meal at the restaurant.\n\nTwenty years after its opening, chef Roger Fessaguet left the kitchen to become an owner with Meyzen due to the retirement of Fred Decré. In 1984, Robert Meyzen retired and Fessaguet and André Jammet took over ownership of the restaurant. The following year, a \"New York Magazine\" article cited it as one of the best restaurants in New York City, and mentioned that most guidebooks gave it their highest rating. Fessaguet retired in 1988, leaving ownership with Jammet and his wife. The Jammets redecorated \"La Caravelle\" in 1990, replacing the original red carpets and banquettes with a color scheme of green and peach. Artist Nina Duran was hired to create a smaller mural for the restaurant's foyer.\n\nBeginning in 2001, the Jammets started replacing many of the dishes \"La Caravelle\" was noted for with updated cuisine they described as more pleasing to the \"contemporary palate\". Some of the old favorite selections were relegated to a menu section labeled \"Les Classiques\", which became the minority of the offerings. The couple decided not to renew the restaurant's lease and it was closed in 2004.\n\nThe customers who arrived on \"La Caravelle‍\"s last night of business were a mixture of regulars who had come for one last meal and bid farwell, as well as those who had never visited it before and wanted to see a piece of New York history before it was no more. Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cronkite dined with colleague Andy Rooney and his daughter; the Cronkites said they had been patrons of \"La Caravelle\" for 43 years. A couple came with their teenage daughter, who was so fussy about food, the \"La Caravelle\" chef would cook a packaged macaroni and cheese dinner for her. Another family of three made reservations for four; one for the husband's mother who had been a \"La Caravelle\" regular and had died in 2000. People with no reservations managed to gain entrance to the restaurant's bar and were able to be seated at a table. A young couple who had come to have a drink on \"La Caravelle\"s last night was graciously seated at the table which was formerly reserved for Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who continued to patronize the restaurant after her marriage to Aristotle Onassis. Upon entering the restaurant's main room, a woman exclaimed that it was her best New York moment and she could now move to the suburbs. Though the restaurant never offered music or entertainment, the Jammets had arranged for Robert White, a tenor and teacher at the Juilliard School to perform \"Danny Boy\". White was a patron of \"La Caravelle\" on the restaurant's first night of business in 1960. It was awarded the James Beard Foundation's Most Outstanding Restaurant in the Country award in the year of its closing. The name is now known for champagnes produced by the Jammets; the restaurant began serving them as its house brand in 1997.\n\nA photo essay about the restaurant, featuring Fessaguet and some of his chefs, appeared in the 1967 Life Science Library volume \"Food and Nutrition.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16338526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16338526", "title": "La règle de non-cumul", "text": "La règle de non-cumul\n\nLa règle de non-cumul is a principle of French law which regulates whether an action should be brought under contract law (\"la responsibilité civile\") or tort law (\"la responsibilité delictuelle\").\n\nIt states that where there is a contract, an action can only be brought under contract law and when there is no contract an action can only be brought under tort law.\n\n"}
{"id": "12037914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12037914", "title": "List of Six Sigma companies", "text": "List of Six Sigma companies\n\nThe following companies claim to have successfully implemented Six Sigma in some form or another:\n"}
{"id": "2555320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2555320", "title": "Lorenzo Sanz", "text": "Lorenzo Sanz\n\nLorenzo Sanz Mancebo (born 9 August 1943 in Madrid) is a Spanish businessman, former president of Real Madrid Club de Fútbol and former owner of Málaga Club de Fútbol, where his son Fernando (a former player with Real Madrid and Málaga) served as the club's president.\n\nIn his youth, Sanz played as a goalkeeper for several minor league Madrilenian teams, including Puerta Bonita. An astute businessman, he made his fortune in real estate and construction.\n\nSanz was director of Real Madrid from 1985 to 1995. He became chairman of Real Madrid on 26 November 1995 after Ramón Mendoza was forced to resign due to the economic, social, and sporting problems of the club. Sanz tried to turn the club around by bringing in star players like Davor Šuker and Predrag Mijatović with his own money. This led to a long-awaited European Cup victory, which Real Madrid had not won since 1966, as the club clinched both the 1998 and 2000 tournaments, now named the UEFA Champions League.\n\nHowever, the two UEFA Champions League triumphs were not enough to hide the financial problems that still plagued the club and in elections a few weeks after the 2000 final, he lost the presidency to Florentino Pérez.\n\nBetween June 2005 and January 2006, Sanz was negotiating with Parma Football Club in \"Amministrazione Straordinaria\" to become the club's new owner. Guido Angiolini and Enrico Bondi, the two officers appointed by the Italian government to restore Parma, and its main sponsor Parmalat, were the two persons involved in the operations with Sanz. The first time Parma announced negotiations with Sanz was in August 2005. Both President Guido Angiolini and government-appointed administrator Enrico Bondi asked for €27.5 million, but the negotiations were not as smooth as some predicted. \n\nUntil January 2006, the Sanz family was still transacting business with Bondi and Angiolini, but to no avail. In an interview with \"Gazzetta dello Sport\" in January 2006, President Angiolini stated that, \"If, by the 16th, the deal with the Sanz family has not been closed, we will set about finding a new buyer.\" Sanz has seemed the most likely buyer of the club since last August when he made an initial payment of €7.5 million ($9.07 million) on the full price of €27.5 million. However, he has not yet paid the outstanding €20 million. Parma administrators stated that after 16 January 2006, the club is free to find other interested buyers as the contract with Sanz expired on 15 January 2006. Other interested buyers include the owner of Spain's Alamak Espana Trade, Russian oligarch Abram Reznikov. The uncertainty over the club's future has become a source of increasing frustration for Parma supporters. The deal with Sanz was a big dilemma for Parma supporters. In some papers, this deal was referred to as \"The never ending story.\" Parma supporters were longing for a positive ending. Sanz visited Parma a couple of times, and he even turned up at the Stadio Ennio Tardini to follow some of Parma's matches in Serie A. Because of his withdrawal from the deal and failure to pay the rest of the sum of €20.5 million, Lorenzo Sanz Senior and Lorenzo Sanz Junior lost much of their credibility.\n\nSanz has recently announced that he will put himself up for election once again for the vacant President's position at Real Madrid, losing it to Ramón Calderón.\n\nOn July 2006, Sanz purchased Málaga Club de Fútbol. He sold the club in 2010 to a Qatari investor.\n\nIn May 2008, it has been reported that he is looking to buy Italian club Associazione Sportiva Bari, and that the Bari owners have given him 10 days to close the deal, which is rumored to be around €15 million.\n\nOn September 2008, he was briefly jailed charged of fraud by a bank after trying to get paid a fake cheque. The complaint was withdrawn on December 2008.\n\nOn 11 November 2009, it was reported by Spanish newspaper \"El Pais\" that Sanz was arrested trying to smuggle artwork out of Spain.\n\nSanz is the father-in-law of former Real Madrid and Spanish defender Míchel Salgado, who married his daughter Malula.\n\n"}
{"id": "16918331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16918331", "title": "Mads Johansen Lange", "text": "Mads Johansen Lange\n\nMads Johansen Lange, nicknamed the King of Bali, (18 September 1807 in Rudkøbing, Denmark13 May 1856 in Kuta, Bali, Indonesia) was a Danish trader, entrepreneur, peace maker on Bali, knight of the Order of the Netherlands Lion, and recipient of the Danish gold medal of achievement. He was the son of Lorents Lange Pedersen and Maren Lange, a merchant and a merchant's daughter, respectively.\n\nLange travelled to the Dutch East Indies at an early age and settled on the island of Bali. Here he built a thriving commercial enterprise, exporting rice, spices and beef, and importing weapons and textiles. He maintained good relations with the local Rajas and mediated between them and the Dutch colonists with great success.\n\nLange died 48 years old, possibly because of poisoning. His business had been in decline by then, and even the joint efforts of his brother and nephew could not change this. The remains of the business were sold to a Chinese merchant. He had three children with local Balinese women. His daughter Cecilia married into Johore royalty and bore a son, Ibrahim, who became the Sultan of Johor. Lange is buried in Kotta (now 'Kuta').\n\nMads Lange was born in Rudkøbing on 18 September 1807, as the second son of Lorents Lange and Maren Hansen. He had one sister and ten brothers, three of whom were children from an earlier marriage of his mother. The youngest brother died when he was six years old. Little else is known about Mads' childhood.\n\nHis father, Lorents Lange Pedersen, was the son of master builder Peder Frandsen Knudsøn and Johanne Margrethe Lorentzdatter Lange. He was the only one of his nine brothers and sisters to take his mother's surname, Lange, as his baptismal name. Although the idea was for it to be a middle name, in practice it became his surname, meaning his mother's surname lived on through him. Lorents was the only boy among the three children who survived into adulthood. In later life Lorents was a member of the Langeland militia. He had an indirect role in the Napoleonic Wars: Spanish soldiers were billeted in his house from 1812 to 1813. He received 4florins a month for this, but it meant his family home was now occupied by about fifteen people. This was surely a contributing factor in his decision to buy a new house on the Østergade, No.1214, in 1816. In 1822 Lorents started a transport company with a mail coach and two horses, not uncommon for a merchant in those days. His cousin was master of the ferry services, which probably benefited the small company enormously. Lorents died in 1828.\n\nLange's mother, Maren Hansen, had married Mads Andresen in 1799. With him she had three sons. Mads Andresen died in 1805, and later that year Maren married Lorents Lange. She had inherited a tavern and a shop, which Lorents ran even though he had been trained to be a master builder. After Lorents' death she married Mads Hansen.\n\nLange started his career at sea at fourteen years of age. Three years later, in 1824, he worked aboard the ship \"North\", where he met Captain John Burd. They sailed together for many years, including to the Danish trading post Tranquebar in India. In 1833 they returned to Denmark, and Mads seized this opportunity to visit his parents' home. He remained in Denmark for some time and was counted in the 1834 census.\n\nIn the meantime, Burd sold the ship \"North\" in Hamburg. A little while later he and Lange bought the ship \"South\", which they steered towards India and China. Burd was the captain and Lange the first mate. With them traveled Lange's three brothers: Hans, Carl Emil, and Hans Henrik, 20, 18, and 14 years old, respectively. None of the four brothers would ever return to Denmark.\n\nIn 1835 Mads decided to settle on the island of Lombok, east of Bali and Java, because here there was a lively commercial traffic. The island contained two princely states, Karangasem Lombok and Mataram. The first was the largest, and it was the Raja from this state who allowed Lange to trade from the port city of Tanjungkarang, in exchange for a yearly fee. It was here that Lange created his first flourishing commercial enterprise. He exported coffee, rice, spices and green tobacco, importing textiles and weapons that could easily be sold to the local warring tribes.\n\nIn 1839 fights erupted ever more frequently between the princely states. Combined with increased Dutch efforts to colonize the island, this forced Mads to leave Lombok. When the Raja who had supported him was defeated, Mads had to flee to Bali head-over-heels in his schooner \"Venus\".\n\nLange now had to start over on Bali. He settled on the south coast of the island, near the town of Kotta. The town was situated on a narrow peninsula, which made it possible to load goods on the east and the west side. This came in very handy during the monsoon season, when winds abruptly changed direction.\n\nFour factors helped Lange settle on Bali successfully. First was his long history of trading with Bali. This meant he knew the possibilities this island had to offer. Second were his good relations with the Balinese Rajas. Raja Kassiman of Badung had even invited him to settle on the island. This meant he enjoyed protection and could obtain cheap labour, but probably also that he possessed a monopoly on trade on the island. The third factor was that the local population on Bali was suffering from an economic depression, after a war with Java that had made the export of slaves impossible. The fourth factor was a shortage of rice in Asia. Bali was well situated to reap the benefits of this shortage because the island population was well skilled in rice farming, and because the climate was such that it allowed for up to three harvests a year.\n\nLange built his \"factorij\" at Kotta and steadily expanded it with residential units and warehouses. The Dutch nobleman and politician Wolter Robert, Baron van Hoevell visited Bali and Mads Lange, and gave a description of the \"factorij\":\n\nLange was in good standing with the Balinese, and within a few years he had built a flourishing company with about fifteen ships, plying lively trade among ports in the East Indies, the West Indies, and Europe. His brothers helped him out in the \"factorij\", and sometimes sailed on the ships when trading missions were difficult or demanding. Pirates and bad weather conditions often made these journeys dangerous. Two of Lange's brothers, Hans Henrik and Carl Emil, died during these kinds of journeys, the latter dying in plain sight of Mads when the rowboat he was in capsized.\n\nLange's career as a merchant blossomed during the 1840s. Halfway through that period his fleet of ships was capable of transporting between 800 and 1500 tons of freight. Many of the ships were newly built, probably in Singapore, a city Mads often visited. Coconut oil was sold in Singapore in great quantities, yielding profits of 200 to 300%. Because of this, Mads had an oil mill imported entire from Europe. This was an expensive operation, but the costs were recuperated within a few years. Rice kept being announced for low prices in the newspapers of Singapore, Australia and China.\n\nFrom 1841 to 1843 Lange had an intimate relationship with his second cousin Malana von Munk, who was a distant relative of Christian IX of Denmark. While the relationship was strong and there are writings describing Lange's infatuation with von Munk, she had to return to Denmark due to personal reasons, bringing the two-year relationship to an end.\n\nPredominantly French ships sailed to Kotta to load trading goods, especially cattle, ponies, pigs and poultry. Often the Balinese would come to the beaches with far more livestock than the ships could carry. Lange took advantage of the situation. He bought the livestock that remained, especially the cattle, since beef was a popular food. He functioned as a beach butcher, where a man could have his cows butchered quickly. Dried beef, known as \"ding-ding\", was shipped to Dutch troops on Java.\n\nDuring those days, Lange's \"factorij\" had trading interests of a million guilders in trade with Java specifically. His success was primarily due to his ability to create personal ties, especially with the local Rajas. The Dutch, who were also trying to set up trade on Bali, were less successful, and in May 1844 they named Lange their agent on the island, with the right to fly the Dutch flag. Now Mads was not just working for himself, but also for the Dutch authorities who profited from his cooperation.\n\nIn the last half of the 1840s, the Dutch again tried to gain control over Bali and its Rajas. In July 1846 they sent a military force to the island, the First Dutch Expedition to Bali. Their goal was the northern city of Buleleng. After an ultimatum to surrender unconditionally was rejected, the Dutch landed on the island on 28June and attacked the city. It was conquered and burned. The next day the Dutch troops marched for the residency of Singaraja, where this city was taken without much resistance ase most Balinese were moving inland to the fort of Djagaraga. During the attack, the Dutch received support from their fleet, whose commander would not allow the troops to move too far inland. Lange offered to go to the Rajas of Buleleng and Karangasem for negotiations. These were successful and on 9July the peace accords came into effect. The Rajas would pay a small amount of damages, and the Dutch would maintain a small occupation force on the island until the matter could be settled.\n\nWhen the Rajas did not comply with all the agreements of the treaty of 1846, the Dutch sent a larger expedition to Bali in 1848, the Second Dutch Expedition to Bali. Lange was able to keep the states of Tabanan and Badung neutral, but the rest of the Balinese forces assembled at Djagaraga, the same place they had sought refuge in 1846. During the preparations for their campaign, the Dutch blockaded the coast of Bali, wreaking havoc on trade. Djagaraga lay deep inland, so the attack had to go through without the help of the fleet. At first all went well, but the Dutch were stopped when they met Gusti Djilantiek, who had dug in with 600 riflemen. When it became clear that the Dutch supply was badly organized, because there were not enough coolies to carry everything, the Dutch could no longer resist Balinese attacks from the villages and were forced to retreat.\n\nThe Dutch defeat resonated through the Dutch East Indies and the government felt compelled to re-establish authority in order to prevent revolts in other parts of the archipelago. A new force twice the size of the previous one was sent in 1849, the Third Dutch Expedition to Bali. This time, the army brought along 200 coolies to carry supplies and the wounded. On 1April 1849 the fleet reached Buleleng and on 4April general-major Andreas Victor Michiels set up his headquarters in the abandoned palace of Singaraja. Emissaries of the Rajas of Buleleng and Karangasem were sent to the general, but he refused to talk to anyone but the Rajas themselves. He urged them to hurry up, or they would lose their territories. The meeting took place on 7April. The Balinese arrived at the palace with a force of 12,000 men, after the Dutch had allowed them to take as many guards as the Rajas deemed necessary. Fighting did not occur, since the Rajas accepted all demands of the Dutch, including the immediate demolition of the fortifications at Djagaraga.\n\nThe Dutch now decided to focus their attention on the south of Bali, and they attacked the small states of Karangasem and Klungkung. At the same time, they accepted an offer of 400 soldiers from the Prince of Lombok, who also coveted power over Karangasem. On 12May 1849 preparations were complete, and the Dutch landed near the coastal town of Padang Cove, which they overtook. A week later, warriors from Lombok infiltrated in Karangasem, which rose in revolt against its Raja. The Raja, facing total defeat, killed all his wives and children and then committed suicide. The Raja of Buleleng, together with Gusti Djilantiek, fled into the mountains, with the warriors from Lombok in pursuit. The Dutch now focussed their attacks on Klungkung, where the most important and holiest Raja of Bali resided, the Dewa Agung. This Raja and his sister were the most fanatical opponents of Dutch influence on Bali, and it was of utmost importance to sideline them. Under command of major-general Michiels, the Dutch advanced and took control of an old, holy temple and the town of Kasumba. The next night, however, they were attacked by the Balinese, and Michiels was wounded in the thigh. He died after an unsuccessful amputation. The second in command, lieutenant-colonel Jan vanSwieten, took over command and decided to retreat to the coast. There he waited for further instructions from Batavia. They were met by the warriors from Lombok, who informed them that the Raja and Gusti Djilantiek were no longer alive.\n\nLange's trade suffered from the war, and when the Raja of Kassim launched an attack on neighbouring Mengwi, the people in Kotta feared a counter-attack. Mads convinced the Rajas to assemble a force of 16,000 men and join him on a journey to the Dewa Agung, to plead with him to conduct peace negotiations with the Dutch. Even though fortune favoured the Balinese after the death of Michiels and the retreat of the Dutch army, the Rajas decided to accept Lange's request. Lange had placed a man aboard his ship \"Venus\" and sent him ahead to inform the Dutch of his mediation. They were not convinced he would succeed, and when the monsoon season arrived, they decided that action needed to be taken lest the whole expedition fail. The army advanced on Kasumba and met almost no resistance. The Balinese had raised their defences around Klungkung. Early in the morning of 10June, the Dutch left Kasumba for Klungkung. Along the way, they met Lange and a small group of riders. He informed them that his mediation had failed, but that the Rajas wished for peace. Mads also warned the Dutch not to advance any farther, for he could not guarantee that his 16,000 men would not join the Balinese defences. The Dutch were grateful for the information and retreated. They sent Lange back to the Rajas, together with a Dutch officer, to agree with the Rajas that the Balinese would send an embassy to the Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies to recognize Dutch sovereignty over the island.\n\nA few days after the new commander of the military forces in the Dutch East Indies, Prince Bernhard of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, had arrived, Lange organised a meeting for all Dutch soldiers and 12,000 Balinese. The latter were extremely curious about this 'real' European prince. The Rajas and the prince assured each other of their peaceful intentions, after which the prince left for Batavia, taking most of the Dutch troops with him. Jan vanSwieten was tasked with forging a final peace agreement with the Balinese princes. When the residences of the Rajas proved to be too small for the meetings, talks were held in Lange's \"factorij\", which by that time was already a meeting place where quarrels between Balinese and foreigners were resolved. The meeting took place from 10 to 15July. The Dewa Agung was ill and had sent his son Raja Geit Putera from Klungkung. The Rajas of Bandung, Tabanan, Gianyar and Mengwi were also present. Both parties saw the final arrangement as a victory. The Dutch left the island as sovereigns, and the Balinese would remain de facto independent for the rest of the 19th century.\n\nAccording to estimates, around 20,000 people attended the meetings, mostly Balinese. During the many days of negotiations, they all stayed in or around Lange's \"factorij\". This must have been a huge drain on his resources. Raja Kassiman rewarded him for his efforts by granting him the honorary title of \"unggawa besar\" or \"high commissioner\", one of the most senior titles on Bali. The Dutch for their part rewarded Lange with the Knight's Cross in the Order of the Netherlands Lion, awarded on 11December 1849 by King William III. The newspaper of Langeland, the Danish island where Lange had been born, wrote in 1850 about the award:\n\nAfter the war Bali suffered an economic decline, which also affected Lange and his business. The Dutch blockades during the military campaigns had practically stopped all trade. Also the majority of the male inhabitants had fought in the war instead of working the fields, leading to a standstill in the production of major export products. Lange was able to buy rice in Lombok and sell it to Raja Kassiman, but his expensive oil mill ground to a halt due to a shortage of coconuts.\n\nAt the same time as this drop in production, the number of ships in the waters around Bali dropped sharply. As skippers were not able to match their previous profits, their numbers declined. Sailing ship were out-competed by steamers, resulting in more traffic for large ports like Hong Kong and Singapore, and less for smaller places. Lange also suffered from illness, and a never-sent letter to the Raja of Tabanan shows he had plans to return to Rudkøbing.\n\nLange had never forgotten his fatherland even though he had lived on Bali for most of his life. He sent several artefacts to the Royal Ethnographic Museum in Copenhagen, which was opened in 1849 by Christian Jürgensen Thomsen. After Lange's death, his sea chest was offered to the museum by a Swedish engineer who had acquired it on Bali. On 28July 1854 the many gifts Lange had donated to the museum resulted in his being awarded the Danish Golden Medal of Merit by Frederik VII of Denmark. Papers in the Danish National Archives show the bureaucratic process surrounding this award:\n\nLange's contribution did not confine itself to the cultural sphere. He sent thousands of rijksdaalders to Denmark during the First Danish-German War of 1848–1851. He also collected money for the Danish organisation Aid for the Victims of War.\n\nLange died on 13 May 1856, 48 years of age. His daughter Cecilia was only eight years old, but, like Lange's English physician, she suspected he had been poisoned during a visit to a Raja. There were also rumors he had been poisoned by the Dutch. Since no official inquiry has ever been made, it is impossible either to prove or to disprove any of those theories.\n\nIn talks with writer Aage Krarup Nielsen, Cecilia accused Lange's nephew Peter Christian Lange of stealing everything Lange had of value and fleeing. According to Nielsen, she said, \"He was a robber who left for home in Denmark with all that was left of my fathers riches, without leaving us two children a single penny.\" Ludvig Verner Helms defended this nephew, based on a letter he had received in 1883 from one of Hans Nielsen Lange's sons, who wrote about Peter Christian Lange: \"He sold everything that had belonged to my father, ships and buildings, nothing was left for me. The house in Banjuwangi was left to Cecilia, but because she had no documentary evidence that she was Lange's daughter, the government would not allow this.\"\n\nLange had drawn up a will in 1851. Krarup Nielsen received a copy of this will from his daughter Cecilia during one of her visits. It is highly likely that this copy still rests at the Royal Library in Copenhagen.\n\nThe reason why Lange had made a will at such a young age was the declining economic situation of his company. His planned trip to Denmark was also part of the decision. His brother had recently died in an accident, and making a will before undertaking a long and dangerous journey would have seemed like a good idea. A short while before writing the will Mads had lost his lover, the Balinese woman Nyai Kenyèr, probably because of an outbreak of cholera.\n\nAccording to the will, each of his children received a legacy of 10,000 guilders. Besides this, Cecilia would inherit all belongings and properties on Java, on the condition that her mother would be allowed to use these properties for the rest of her life. Cecilia's mother would inherit 3,000 pieces of gold, the interest on which would make her financially secure. Ida Bay, Lange's cousin, would inherit 4,000 gold pieces and 1,000 Spanish dollars, but she had to support Lange's mother, who would inherit all remaining assets. Lastly, two nephews, one in Rudkøbing and one on Bali, would each inherit 1,000 guilders. Around 1855, Mads changed his will: the first change was removing the name of his son William Peters due to his death in Singapore. The second change was the reduction of the legacy of his other son Andreas Emil to 5,000 guilders, and that Andreas would now inherit all his father's personal belongings and succeed him as head of the company. Cecilia's legacy was reduced by 25% and was frozen at a 9% interest rate. The funds would not be released until she married or reached adulthood.\n\nOn one side of the obelisk a stone carries this inscription:\nLange was buried near his \"factorij\" in a small grove of palm trees. Today the grave lies on the main road between Sanur and Kotta. An obelisk on a white base was erected in 1927 by the Dutch government, at the urging of the Danish consul at Surabaya, Johan Ernst Quintus Bosz.\n\nLange's brother Hans and his nephew Peter Christian tried to keep the \"factorij\" going after his death. The nephew even invested a large amount of his personal wealth. After Hans' death in 1860, Peter Christian was the only remaining Christian member of the family on Bali. After Raja Kassiman died in 1863, the \"factorij\" lost its protector. A short time later, Peter found himself in conflict with the Rajas. He subsequently sold the business to a Chinese merchant. He died in 1869 in Denmark at the age of 42.\n\nSeveral times Cecilia and her half-brother tried in vain to get clear information about the value of their father's belongings on Bali. An investigation by the Dutch authorities in 1872 resulted in several lengthy exchanges of letters between the Raja and the Dutch. In the meantime, the once-flourishing company withered away. The empty \"factorij\" was abandoned and today no visible traces remain of its existence.\n\nMads Lange never married. His whole life he hoped to marry his cousin Ida Bay, who was ten years younger than him. He sent her letters and gifts, but the feeling was clearly not mutual, and she did not even comment on the letter containing the marriage proposal from the east.\n\nOn Bali, Lange fathered three children with two women. One was a Balinese woman named Njai Kenjèr or Nyai Kenyèr. His second wife was a Chinese woman who Mads called \"Nonna Sangnio\", which means \"Miss\" or \"Mistress\".\n\nHe had three children in total. With Nyai Kenyèr he had William Peter (1843) and Andreas Emil (1850), and with Nonna Sangnio he had Cecilia Catharina (1848). Both his sons went to school in Singapore. William Peter died here at twelve years of age. Andreas Emil was educated at the Raffles Institute, married an Asian woman, had several children, and was Private Secretary to the Rajah of Sarawak for at least eighteen years, during which time he had six sons and two daughters between 1881 and 1899. Andreas's descendants live in Singapore and Australia.\n\nCecilia Catharina was sent to Singapore when she was seven years old to receive an education at a convent school. When Lange died the next year, she was adopted by an English family who took her on holidays to Europe and India. She received a thorough education, which proved to be of great use when she returned to Singapore in 1870. Here she met Abu Bakar, who was the ruler of Johor at the time. He fell in love with her and was so smitten he ignored all the customary stereotypes that in those days stood in the way of a marriage between a full-blooded Malay man and a Eurasian woman. They eventually married, and Cecilia took the name \"Zubaidah\". She was not Abu Bakar's first wife, however, and when her husband became sultan in 1885 with the blessings of the British, it was his third wife Fatima who received the title of sultana. Cecilia was named \"Inche Besar Zubaidah\", a title bestowed upon wives of the sultan who were not sultana. But in contrast to his other wives, it was Cecilia who bore him a son and continued the dynasty. Her son Ibrahim is a descendant of Lange, and his family sits on the throne of Johor to this very day.\n\nFormer New Zealand prime minister David Lange, who is known to be of Danish ancestry, is descended from a different branch of the family, according to himself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16716910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16716910", "title": "Minimum energy performance standard", "text": "Minimum energy performance standard\n\nA MEPS (Minimum Energy Performance Standard) is a specification, containing a number of performance requirements for an energy-using device, that effectively limits the maximum amount of energy that may be consumed by a product in performing a specified task.\n\nA MEPS is usually made mandatory by a government energy efficiency body. It may include requirements not directly related to energy; this is to ensure that general performance and user satisfaction are not adversely affected by increasing energy efficiency.\n\nA MEPS generally requires use of a particular test procedure that specifies how performance is measured.\n\nIn North America when addressing energy efficiency, a MEPS is sometimes referred to simply as a “standard”, as in “Co-operation on Labeling and Standards Programs”. In Latin America when addressing energy efficiency, MEPS are sometimes referred to as \"Normas\" (translated as \"norms\").\n\nA storage water heater providing hot water for sanitary purposes is required to heat up a specified quantity of water to a specified temperature and store it at that temperature for a specified time while consuming a limited amount of energy. In this example, the requirements for heating up and for maintaining the temperature may be applied as two separate energy performance requirements or there may be a single task efficiency. \nA compact fluorescent lamp is required to start and run up to near full brightness in a given time, to have a minimum life of several thousand hours, to maintain its output within specified limits, to withstand a certain number of switchings, to have a consistent colour appearance and a specified colour rendering. Its energy performance requirement is usually stated in terms of minimum efficacy (light output per electrical input).\n\nIn the U.S., the state of California was a pioneer in the introduction of MEPS. In order to reduce the growth in electricity use, the California Energy Commission (CEC) was given unique and strong authority to regulate the efficiency of appliances sold in the state. It started to adopt appliance efficiency regulations in 1978, and has updated the standards regularly over time, and expanded the list of covered appliances. \n\nIn 1988, California's standards became national standards for the U.S. through the enactment of the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act (NAECA). The federal standards preempted state standards (unless the state justified a waiver from federal preemption based on conditions in the state), and since then, the U.S. Department of Energy has had the responsibility to update the federal standards. \n\nCalifornia has continued to expand the list of appliances it regulates for appliances that are not federally regulated, and therefore not preempted. In recent years, the CEC's attention has been focused on consumer electronics, for which energy use has been growing dramatically.\n\nMEPS programs are made mandatory in Australia by state government legislation and regulations which give force to the relevant Australian Standards. It is mandatory for the following products manufactured in or imported into Australia to meet the MEPS levels specified by the relevant Australian Standards:\n\nA law was approved in 2001. MEPS have been set for three-phase electric motors and compact fluorescent lamps.\n\nOn 5 February 2002, New Zealand introduced Minimum Energy Performance Standards (MEPS) with Energy Efficiency Regulations.\nMEPS and energy rating labels help improve the energy efficiency of our products, and enable consumers to choose products that use less energy. Products covered by MEPS must meet or exceed set levels for energy performance before they can be sold to consumers.\nMEPS have been updated over the years (2002, 2003, 2004, 2008, 2011) to cover a wide range of products, and increasing levels of stringency. New Zealand works with Australia to harmonise MEPS levels. Almost all of its standards are joint standards with Australia.\nNew Zealand has mandatory Energy rating labelling for dishwashers and clothes dryers, fridges, washing machines and room air conditioners. \nMEPS apply to the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3333837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3333837", "title": "Montague Chamberlain", "text": "Montague Chamberlain\n\nMontague Chamberlain (April 5, 1844 – February 10, 1924) was a Canadian-American businessman, naturalist, and ethnographer.\n\nChamberlain was born in St. John, New Brunswick, Canada. He spent the first few decades of his life as a bookkeeper and later manager of a grocery company in St. John. In his mid-twenties, he also became a dedicated amateur ornithologist. In 1883 he co-founded the American Ornithologists' Union, which today stakes its claim as \"the oldest and largest organization in the New World devoted to the scientific study of birds.\" In 1888 Chamberlain became a resident member and editor for the Nuttall Ornithological Club, and a founding member of the American Ornithologists' Union. After quitting the grocery business, he became the assistant secretary of the Harvard Corporation in 1889 and the secretary of the Lawrence Scientific School in 1893.\n\nChamberlain was married at the age of 63, to Anna Sartoris Prout of Petersburg, Virginia. Their marriage lasted six years before Anna died.\n\nChamberlain died in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, in 1924. The same year, Theodore Sherman Palmer, secretary of the American Ornithologists' Union, wrote an obituary of Chamberlain in \"The Auk\". Percy Algernon Taverner later published an obituary of Chamberlain in \"Canadian Field-Naturalist\". Palmer's obituary includes a lament that Chamberlain made no direct contributions to ornithology during the last twenty years of his life.\n\nHe was a frequent contributor to \"The Bulletin of the Nuttall Ornithological Club\", \"The Auk\" (of which he was also a founding associate editor ), and \"Bulletin of the Natural History Society of New Brunswick\", the last of which published his \"A Catalogue of the Birds of New Brunswick: With brief notes relating to their migrations, breeding, relative abundance, etc.\" in 1882. He also authored the following books:\n\n\nChamberlain's interest in the Native Americans grew after spending time at the Penobscot haven of Indian Island in Maine, where he helped start a museum. He maintained that a Penobscot had saved his grandfather's life. Chamberlain also became familiar with the nearby and related Passamaquoddy and Maliseet, leading to his drafting of the first significant English-Maliseet dictionary. Although Maliseet is still spoken today by around 1,500 people, \"Maliseet Vocabulary\" has become a valuable source on the Maliseet language, as the first published, substantial characterization of the language, recorded at a relatively early date. The book includes translations for about 1,600 Maliseet words; perhaps owing in part to Chamberlain's particular interests as a naturalist and bird enthusiast, 481 of the 1,600 words are related to plants and animals, including 124 Maliseet words for different types of birds.\n\n"}
{"id": "16281523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16281523", "title": "Myra Kraft", "text": "Myra Kraft\n\nMyra Hiatt Kraft (\"née\" Myra Nathalie Hiatt; December 27, 1942 – July 20, 2011) was an American philanthropist and the wife of New England Patriots and New England Revolution owner Robert Kraft.\n\nKraft was born in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1942, the daughter of Frances and Jacob Hiatt. Her father was a Lithuanian Jewish immigrant who had served as a circuit judge of the Court of Lithuania before immigrating in 1935. His parents and three other members of his family died during the Holocaust. He went on to become a well known philanthropist and leader in the Jewish community. Jacob served as president of the E.F. Dodge Paper Box Corp. in Leominster, Massachusetts and remained president when it merged with 12 other box and printing companies to become the Rand-Whitney Corp. Rand-Whitney was bought by his son-in-law, Robert Kraft, in 1972.\n\nIn 1960, Kraft graduated from the private Bancroft School in Worcester, and in 1964 she graduated from Brandeis University with a degree in History.\n\nKraft was listed by \"Boston Magazine\" as one of the 20 Most Powerful Women in Boston, She was president and director of the New England Patriots Charitable Foundation and trustee of the Robert K. and Myra H. Kraft Foundation. She served on the boards of directors of the American Repertory Theatre, the United Way of Massachusetts Bay, Northeastern University, the Boys and Girls Clubs of Boston, and Brandeis University. She and her husband donated millions of dollars to promote American football in Israel building the Kraft Stadium in Jerusalem and founding the Israeli Football League. In addition, Kraft helped to support and fund the Israeli Women’s National Flag Football Team.\n\nKraft and her husband started the \"Passport to Israel\" Program with the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston which provided financial assistance to Jewish parents to send their children to Israel while teenagers to help promote Jewish identity. To encourage greater understanding between Christians and Jews, Kraft, her husband, and her father endowed two professorships in comparative religion at the College of the Holy Cross and Brandeis University: the Kraft-Hiatt Chair in Judaic Studies at Holy Cross and the Kraft-Hiatt Chair in Christian Studies at Brandeis University.\n\nThe \"International Herald Tribune\" credited Kraft with \"modeling a new form of engaged giving that is transforming the relationship between philanthropist and philanthropy,\" and the \"Boston Globe\" stated she was \"forging a whole new form of engaged giving.\" The Krafts have donated more than $100 million to a wide range of charities mostly focusing on education, athletics, women’s issues, and Israel.\n\nKraft was the president of the New England Patriots Charitable Foundation, the team's non-profit entity created by the Kraft family to support charitable and philanthropic agencies throughout New England. Through her work with the Patriots Charitable Foundation, Kraft became known as the matriarch of the franchise, providing leadership by her example of volunteerism and helping others in need.\n\nShortly after the 1996 NFL Draft, Kraft learned that the Patriots' fifth-round choice, Christian Peter of Nebraska, had a lengthy history of violence against women. At her insistence, coupled by backlash from women's groups and Patriots fans against Peter's signing, the Patriots relinquished Peter's rights only a week after the draft.\n\nKraft married Robert Kraft in June 1963 while she was a student at Brandeis. They have four sons: \nKraft was a member of Temple Emanuel in Newton, Massachusetts.\n\nKraft died from cancer on July 20, 2011, at age 68, in her Brookline, Massachusetts home. Public services were held at Temple Emanuel in Newton, Massachusetts. In her memory, all Patriots players wore a patch on their uniforms bearing Kraft's initials (MHK) throughout the 2011–12 season.\n"}
{"id": "54141220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54141220", "title": "Nora Brooks Blakely", "text": "Nora Brooks Blakely\n\nNora Brooks Blakely (born September 8, 1951) is a literary editor and agent. She is the President of Brooks Permissions, a permissions firm that manages the use of literary works by Gwendolyn Brooks and other authors. \n\nShe has made public appearances and appeared in documentaries related to Chicago's literary scene, especially the Blacks Arts movement which grew out of Chicago's Woodlawn neighborhood.\n\nShe is the daughter of Gwendolyn Brooks and her husband, Henry Lowington Blakely, Jr. who was known as \"the Poet of 63rd Street\".\n"}
{"id": "58262864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58262864", "title": "Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018", "text": "Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018\n\nThe Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018 is a bill that amends the Overseas Investment Act 2005 to ban most non-resident foreigners from buying existing houses, by classifying them as sensitive land and introducing a residency test. Australian citizens are exempt from this rule as they are considered New Zealand residents per the Trans-Tasman Travel Arrangement. Singaporean citizens are also exempt due to free trade rules. The Overseas Investment Amendment Act was supported by the Labour–led coalition government but was opposed by the opposition centre-right National and libertarian ACT parties. It passed its third reading on 15 August 2018 and received royal assent on 22 August.\n\nThe Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018 amends the Overseas Investment Act 2005 to ensure that investments made by foreign persons benefit New Zealand. The Act would also enhance the information-gathering and enforcement powers of the Overseas Investment Office, which is responsible for administering the Act. \n\nThe Act amends the definition of \"ordinarily resident in New Zealand\" to require that they be permanent resident visa holders. Resident visa holders are not considered \"ordinarily resident in New Zealand\" under this amendment. Clause 11 of the Act allows overseas persons to purchase residential land if it is used to increase the supply of housing in New Zealand. Properties built on land purchased under this pathway must not be inhabited by the owner and must be sold once they have been built.\n\nThe Overseas Investment Amendment Act would require overseas buyers to seek approval from the Overseas Investment Office to purchase hotel units if the land was classified as \"residential\" or \"lifestyle.\" Overseas investors are allowed to purchase and own units in hotels with more than 20 units provided they enter into a lease-back arrangement with the hotel's developer or operator. The Act also allows network utility operators such as electricity and gas distributors, telecommunications companies, and transmission network operators to acquire land without consent for business purposes.\n\nThe Act allows overseas persons to take leases of up to five years over residential land that is not classified as \"sensitive land.\" The Act also has provisions for introducing a \"streamlined approval path\" for businesses to either purchase residential land for non-residential purposes or for residential purposes to support a business. Such purchases would be subject to conditions imposed by the Minister of Trade and Export Growth to ensure that the land is being used for the purposes it was purchased for.\n\nThe Act also imposes a fine of up to NZ$20,000 for those failing to comply with the Act's sections. In addition, the Act also covers overseas investments in sensitive land that involve forestry rights and establishes new tests for consent where an overseas investment in sensitive land relates to forestry.\n\nThe Overseas Investment Amendment Act 2018 was the result of an acute housing shortage in New Zealand during the early 21st century. In addition, national housing prices rose faster than incomes, with the gap rising from over 3.0 in January 2002 to 6.27 in March 2017. In 2017, a report by the International Monetary Fund ranked New Zealand as the most unaffordable country in the OECD and recommended the taxation of property speculation. That same year, the Demographia think-tank ranked Auckland's housing market the fourth-most unaffordable in the world — behind Hong Kong, Sydney and Vancouver — with median house prices rising from 6.4 times the median income in 2008 to 10 times in 2017.\n\nThe housing shortage was a major issue during the 2017 general election. The incumbent National Party campaigned to build 200,000 houses over the next six years while the opposition Labour Party vowed to build 100,000 houses over the next decade as part of its KiwiBuild scheme. The populist New Zealand First promised to restrict foreign investment and the sale of houses and farmland to New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. Labour also campaigned on banning foreign speculators from buying existing houses, taxing property speculators, and making it easier for first-time buyers to purchase homes.\n\nFollowing the 2017 general election held on 23 September 2017, none of the parties in the New Zealand House of Representatives had enough seats to govern alone. After several weeks of negotiations, the Labour and New Zealand First parties formed a coalition government on 19 October, with a confidence and supply agreement with the Green Party. On 14 December, the Overseas Investment Amendment Bill was introduced by Labour Member of Parliament David Parker. On 19 December, the Bill passed its first reading in the with the support of Labour, NZ First, and the Greens parties while the opposition National Party voted against the bill (63:56).\n\nThe Overseas Investment Amendment Bill passed the select committee stage on 18 June 2018. On 26 June, the Bill passed its second reading with the support of Labour, NZ First, and the Greens. National and the libertarian ACT party voted against the bill (63:56). On 15 August, the Bill passed its third reading with the support of the Labour-led coalition while the National and ACT parties opposed the bill (63:57). The Overseas Investment Amendment Act received royal assent on 22 August, becoming law.\n\n"}
{"id": "17275492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17275492", "title": "Plastic compounding", "text": "Plastic compounding\n\nCompounding consists of preparing plastic formulations by mixing or/and blending polymers and additives in a molten state, these blends are automatically dosed with fixed setpoints usually through feeders/hoppers. It is mostly a blend of copolymers such as ABS, SAN, SMA etc. with additives such as anti-oxidants, UV-stabilizers and other value adding agents and sometimes a strengthening component is added such as glass fibre.\n\nThere are different critical criteria to achieve a homogenous blend of the different raw material. Dispersive and distributive mixing as well as heat are important factors.\n\nCompounding is usually done by extrusion. The hopper feeds the begin of the screw which will gradually transport the resins towards the die. The screw itself is confined in a barrel that has different zones that can be heated according to the resins properties.\n\nCo-kneaders and twin screws (co- and counter rotating) as well internal mixers are the most common used compounders in the plastic industry.\n\nThe extrudate, which look like long plastic strands, are then cooled in a water bath, or by spraying as the conveyor belt moves it to the granulator.\nThe granulator breaks the strands into the desired pellet sizes.\n\n"}
{"id": "37886001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37886001", "title": "Public sector comparator", "text": "Public sector comparator\n\nIn Public Administration, the Public Sector Comparator (PSC) is a tool used by governments in determining the proper service provider for a public sector project. It consists of an estimate of the cost that the government would pay were it to deliver a service by itself. The World Bank has its own definition, wherein a PSC \"is used by a government to make decisions by testing whether a private investment proposal offers value for money in comparison with the most efficient form of public procurement.\" Generally, the PSC allows governments to figure out if a public–private partnership or other arrangement would be more cost effective. The PSC is most commonly used in UK, Australia, Hong Kong and Canada.\n"}
{"id": "36484184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36484184", "title": "Ramiro Ortiz", "text": "Ramiro Ortiz\n\nRamiro Ortiz is a Nicaraguan businessman. He heads Grupo Promérica, one of the main corporate groups of Nicaragua. He controls or used to control Palcasa, a firm, that replaces jungle areas with palm oil plants. He is among the richest men of Nicaragua. He owns Banco de la Producción. He used to live or lives in Managua.\nHe owns or used to own El Nuevo Diario newspaper. He is also a member of Washington D.C. based think tank the Inter-American Dialogue.\n"}
{"id": "264384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264384", "title": "Red Herring (magazine)", "text": "Red Herring (magazine)\n\nRed Herring is a media company that publishes an innovation magazine, an online daily technology news service, technology newsletters and hosts events for technology leaders.\n\nRed Herring is perhaps best known for its Red Herring Top 100 technology awards and the international conferences it hosts each year. The Red Herring Top 100 began in 1996 and highlights startup companies and private ventures in Asia, Europe and the Americas.\n\nRed Herring began as a technology business magazine in 1993 and flourished during the dot com boom, with global distribution and bureaus in Bangalore, Beijing, and Paris. It also sponsored conferences designed to bring venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, and technologists together. The magazine went into decline with the dot com crash, and ceased print publication in 2003. It was relaunched in late 2004 under publisher Alex Vieux and editor-in-chief Joel Dreyfuss, but again ceased print publication in 2007, continuing publication in digital form until 2011. Red Herring continues to publish technology sector news online.\n\nRed Herring began as a magazine, founded in 1993 by a former banker named Anthony Perkins. Perkins named the magazine “Red Herring” after what bankers use to describe the prospectus for an initial public offering of stock. The publication initially focused on the venture capital community and expanded its focus to include more of the technology sector.\n\nThe founders sold stakes in the magazine to outside investors, but as the dot-com bust deepened, the magazine struggled, ceasing publication in 2003. Later that year, Alex Vieux of Dasar acquired some of the company's assets. In September 2003, Vieux relaunched the Herring as a website with James Daly as Editor in Chief. The first official issue of the relaunched print publication was published in November 2004.\n\nPerkins had previously founded \"Upside\" magazine with Rich Karlgaard (who later became publisher of \"Forbes\"). Chris Alden and Zack Herlick, friends since junior high school, had started a computer consulting company and taught computer science prior to partnering with Perkins.\n\nRon Conway, of Angel Investors, was an early adviser and board member.\n\nRed Herring launched an event and an Internet division on the same day in May 1995 when Venture Market West premiered in Monterey, California, accompanied by the company's first web site. The Venture Market series (including West, East, South, and Europe) ran successfully until 2001 and were accompanied by other events, such as NDA, Venture, and Herring on Hollywood.\n\nThe Internet operation grew steadily and peaked in 2000 when it acquired Stockmaster.com.\n\nZiff Davis invested $2 million in Red Herring in 1997 for approximately 10% of the company, with Eric Hippeau, then CEO of ZD, joining the Red Herring board. Scott Briggs, a former president of Ziff Davis, joined the board in 1997 as well. Broadview Capital Partners invested $25 million into \"Red Herring\" in 2000, with Steven Brooks and Stephen Bachman joining the board.\n\n\"Red Herring\" was joined in the late 1990s by competitors such as IDG's \"The Industry Standard \"and Imagine Media's \"Business 2.0.\" It was also compared to \"Wired\" magazine and \"Fast Company\".\n\nHilary Schneider was hired by the board as CEO in late 2000 and succeeded Alden (who had succeeded Perkins as CEO).\n\n\"Red Herring's\" revenues reached nearly $100 million with a staff around 350, but contracted in 2001 and 2002. BCP invested in several additional rounds to help stabilize the organization, which went through several rounds of layoffs. Through these financings BCP obtained control of \"Red Herring\" and in 2002 put the company through an assignment for the benefit of creditors (ABC), which is a California state process similar to a federal bankruptcy. RHC Media, owned by BCP, bought the \"Red Herring\" assets out of ABC and kept the business operating.\n\nAfter trying unsuccessfully to sell the company, RHC Media decided in early 2003 to cease operations and sell the company's assets. The subscription obligation was sold to Time Inc. and the Red Herring brand, URL, and Intellectual Property (such as back issues and online content) were sold to Alex Vieux of DASAR.\n\nIn April 2003, Vieux, a French technology leader and entrepreneur, purchased the Red Herring brand with plans to revive the magazine. DASAR, French company led by Vieux, held a 20 percent stake in the undisclosed purchase price.\n\nVieux began hiring employees and refocusing the Red Herring brand out of offices in Mountain View, Calif. James Daly, founding editor in chief of \"Business 2.0\", was hired to head the Red Herring editorial staff. James Dreyfuss, a former editor of PC Week and Information Week, was hired as editor-in-chief.\n\nVieux vowed to make the magazine “systematically global”, focusing on influential technology companies large and small around the world. He refocused Red Herring’s targeted audience to C-level tech executives and international readers.\n<nowiki> \n</nowiki>Building a solid editorial team and keeping costs low were also high priorities for Vieux during Red Herring’s revival. He claimed to have spent 20 percent less per weekly issue than publishers spent previously.\n\nShortly after the purchase by DASAR, the new owners brought in a team new editors with experience at competitors of the former print magazine. \"Red Herring\" re-launched as a web site in the fall of 2003.\n\nRed Herring produced several test issues of the print magazine in the fall of 2004 and launched as a full-fledged weekly magazine in January 2005. The print edition came to an end in 2007, but a digital edition continued, available via the company's web site.\n\nIn recent years, Red Herring has been focused in actively promoting the events and awards for new innovative startups, venture capital scene and these events are branded as Red Herring Global 100, Red Herring North America 100, Red Herring Europe 100 and Red Herring Asia 100.\n\nSome noted critics say that the Red Herring Top 100 is a scam and companies are forced to pay a large fee to attend award ceremonies in order to receive the award. Red Herring has objected to the criticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "861253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861253", "title": "Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada", "text": "Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada\n\nThe Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC) is a government agency and the transit authority and the transportation-planning agency for Southern Nevada. It was founded by the Nevada Legislature in 1965.\n\nThe Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC) transit fleet consists of 37 routes served by 387 vehicles. In 2009, RTC Transit carried 57,738,930 passengers in the greater Las Vegas Valley. RTC Transit consists of 28 fixed route service routes, 7 express service routes, & 2 Las Vegas Strip service routes such as The Deuce & Strip & Downtown Express (SDX).\n\n\nIn response to the ever increasing demand for faster service along the Las Vegas Valley's busiest roads, the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada (RTC) has introduced the Gold Line that connects Downtown Las Vegas to the Las Vegas Convention Center and the Las Vegas Strip.\n\nThe RTC also provides a commuter service that transports passengers from the Centennial Hills Transit Center and Park & Ride in the northwest, to Downtown, the Strip, and ends at the UNLV campus in the southeast.\n\nThe Street Car RTV vehicles travel in dedicated lanes where possible, with less frequent stops than fixed-route transit, enabling the service to change routes based on traffic patterns and move passengers longer distances in a shorter time period than fixed-route bus service.\n\nThe bus rapid transit system is a seamless network of links throughout the Las Vegas Valley to various connection points of other transportation lines with more frequent stops and will have many rail-like features such as level platform boarding and multiple doors for easy loading. Riders wait at new, comfortable, and modern shelters that will compliment the bus rapid transit experience. To help reduce wait times, you are able to purchase a Transit Pass off of the vehicle. This new rapid transit system has the appearance and feel of a light rail transit network at a considerably lower cost.\n\nSecurity on the residential, express, and strip transit routes, and all RTC terminals and select platforms is provided by the private security firm Allied-Barton under contract to the RTC. The previous contract holder was Wackenhut Security (now G4S) until losing the contract in 2009. Since then, increased crime in the Las Vegas Metropolitan area has\nprompted an increased security presence in the transit system as a whole. The officers primary task is that of fare enforcement, but will also engage in enforcing other RTC policies and rules, to include the removal of loiters, those causing disturbances, and those posing safety hazards at RTC stops and facilities, and insuring the general safety of staff and customers.\n\nOn December 15, 2014, a fatal shooting involving a transit security officer and Christopher Gene Boudinot occurred at the Paris Hotel and Casino stop at about 1:45am. Boudinot was removed from a bus for creating a disturbance. After lingering at the bus stop, he pulled a .45 caliber handgun and shot the officer several times. The officer returned fire and fatally shot Boudinot. The transit officer was rushed to UMC and eventually recovered while Boudinot was declared dead at the scene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1482627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1482627", "title": "Rockefeller Group", "text": "Rockefeller Group\n\nRockefeller Group is an American private company based in New York City, primarily involved in real estate operations in the United States. It is a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Estate Co. The company began with the development of Rockefeller Center.\n\nAfter building the original , Art Deco complex from 1931 to 1939 (the company name was then the Metropolitan Square Corporation), the company developed several towers in the immediate vicinity from the late 1940s into the 1950s and 1960s. It entered into a partnership with Time Inc. and constructed a 48-story building for the company that opened in 1959; this spearheaded the expansion of the Center to the west of 6th Avenue, Avenue of the Americas. By the early 1970s, it had added a total of four International Style towers to Rockefeller Center, more than doubling the size of the original complex.\n\nToday, Rockefeller Group maintains an ownership/management position in the of office space that makes up Rockefeller Center’s western corridor (the newer buildings located west of Sixth Avenue). The eastern and original part of the Center is now owned by Tishman Speyer (who also serves as manager) and the Lester Crown family of Chicago, Illinois.\n\n"}
{"id": "9369736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9369736", "title": "Sharon Epperson", "text": "Sharon Epperson\n\nSharon Epperson (born April 12, 1968) is Senior Personal Finance Correspondent for CNBC. She also appears on NBC News shows, \"Today\" and \"NBC Nightly News\".\n\nEpperson holds a bachelor's degree in sociology and government from Harvard University, a master's degree in international affairs from Columbia University, and an honorary doctorate from Carlow University in Pittsburgh. She has been an adjunct instructor of international affairs at Columbia University's School of International Public Affairs since 2000. Epperson graduated from Pittsburgh's Taylor Allderdice High School in 1986 and was inducted into their alumni hall of fame in 2011. She served a summer internship at the age of 18 in the Pittsburgh Press library department.\n\nShe was previously CNBC's senior energy correspondent, stationed at the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) covering the commodities markets on a daily basis for eight years. Epperson is the daughter of David E. Epperson and Ceceila T. Epperson, a retired schoolteacher in the Pittsburgh Public School System, last teaching at Lincoln Elementary School in Pittsburgh. Her father, now deceased, was Dean of the School of Social Work at the University of Pittsburgh for nearly 30 years.\nEpperson has covered personal finance in a column for \"USA Weekend\" magazine and her writing has also appeared in \"Essence\" magazine, \"The Boston Globe\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"Self\" magazine.\n\nShe also authored \"The Big Payoff: 8 Steps Couples Can Take to Make the Most of Their Money and Live Richly Ever After.\" \n\n1995: 1st place honors from the National Association of Black Journalists for team coverage on Time magazine's cover story on the Nation of Islam.<BR>\n1999: Silver World Medal from the New York Festivals, an international television programming competition.<BR>\n2001: Gracie Allen Award from the Foundation of American Women in Radio and Television.<BR>\n2003: Trailblazer of the Year Award from the New York Association of Black Journalists.<BR>\n2003: All-Star Award from the Association of Women in Communications.\n\nA native of Pittsburgh, she and her husband, Christopher John Farley, also an award-winning journalist and author, live in Westchester County, N.Y., with their two children. They have been married since August 30, 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "34139309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34139309", "title": "Tim Manchin", "text": "Tim Manchin\n\nTimothy J. \"Tim\" Manchin (born July 6, 1955 in Farmington, West Virginia) serves in the West Virginia House of Delegates since 2003. He was appointed to the seat vacated by the death of his uncle, A. James Manchin, in November 2003.\n\nTim Manchin was born in 1955 in Farmington, West Virginia to Ann Manchin and Joseph Manchin II. He graduated from Bridgeport High School. He got a B.S. cum laude from West Virginia University in 1977 and his J.D. from West Virginia College of Law in 1980.. In 2011, after his law partner of 25 years became a West Virginia circuit court judge, Timothy founded the Manchin Injury Law Group in Fairmont, West Virginia.\n\nHe is a former president of West Virginia Trial Lawyers Association. He was also a board member of the City National Bank and the West Virginia Division of Labor Manufactured Housing.\n\nIn 2003, Democratic Governor Bob Wise appointed Tim Manchin to the Marion County based-43rd District after the seat was vacated by the death of Tim's uncle A. James Manchin. He was elected in 2004 with 23%. He was re-elected in 2006 (29%), 2008 (26%), and 2010 (21%).\n\n\n\nAccording to Politico, Tim Manchin met with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee in December 2011 to talk about setting up a campaign in West Virginia's 1st congressional district, currently held by U.S. Congressman David McKinley (R-WV).\n\nHe lives in Fairmont, Marion County, West Virginia with his wife Susan and their son. One of his uncles, James Manchin, was a state delegate, West Virginia Secretary of State, and State Treasurer. Another uncle, John Manchin, was Mayor of Farmington, West Virginia. One of his grandfathers, Joe Manchin I, was also Mayor of Farmington. A first cousin, Joe Manchin III, is a former Governor, West Virginia Secretary of State, State Senator, and State Delegate, who now serves as U.S. Senator.\n\n"}
{"id": "40896035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40896035", "title": "Total productive maintenance", "text": "Total productive maintenance\n\nIn industry, total productive maintenance (TPM) is a system of maintaining and improving the integrity of production and quality systems through the machines, equipment, processes, and employees that add business value to an organization \n\nTPM focuses on keeping all equipment in top working condition to avoid breakdowns and delays in manufacturing processes.\n\nThe term \"total productive maintenance\" is attributed to Nippondenso, a company that created parts for Toyota. However, Seiichi Nakajima is regarded as the father of TPM because of his numerous contributions to TPM.\n\nOne of the main objectives of TPM is to increase the productivity of a factory and its equipment with a modest investment in maintenance. Total quality management (TQM) and total productive maintenance (TPM) are considered as the key operational activities of the quality management system. In order for TPM to be effective, the full support of the total workforce is required. This should result in accomplishing the goal of TPM: \"Enhance the volume of the production, employee morale and job satisfaction.\"\n\nThe main objective of TPM is to increase the Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE) of plant equipment. TPM addresses the causes for accelerated deterioration while creating the correct environment between operators and equipment to create ownership.\n\nOEE has three factors which are multiplied to give one measure called OEE<br>\nPerformance x Availability x Quality = OEE\n\nEach factor has two associated losses making 6 in total, these 6 losses are as follows:\n\nPerformance = (1) running at reduced speed - (2) Minor Stops\n\nAvailability = (3) Breakdowns - (4) Product changeover\n\nQuality = (5) Startup rejects - (6) Running rejects\n\nThe objective finally is to identify then prioritize and eliminate the causes of the losses. This is done by self-managing teams that solve problem. Employing consultants to create this culture is common practice.\n\nThe eight pillars of TPM are mostly focused on proactive and preventive techniques for improving equipment reliability:\n\nWith the help of these pillars we can increase productivity.\nManufacturing support.\n\nFollowing are the steps involved by the implementation of TPM in an organization:\n\n- Initial evaluation of TPM level,\n\n- Introductory Education and Propaganda (IEP) for TPM,\n\n- Formation of TPM committee,\n\n- Development of master plan for TPM implementation,\n\n- Stage by stage training to the employees and stakeholders on all eight pillars of TPM,\n\n- Implementation preparation process,\n\n- Establishing the TPM policies and goals and development of a road map for TPM implementation.\n\nAccording to Nicholas, the steering committee should consist of production managers, maintenance managers, and engineering managers. The committee should formulate TPM policies and strategies and give advice. This committee should be led by a top-level executive. Also a TPM program team must rise, this program team has oversight and coordination of implementation activities. As well, it's lacking some crucial activities, like starting with partial implementation. Choose the first target area as a pilot area, this area will demonstrate the TPM concepts. Lessons learned from early target areas/the pilot area can be applied further in the implementation process.\n\nIn the UK foundry industry an implementation model was published in several Foundryman magazines by the Institute of British Foundrymen. Journal articles written by Toni Carannante CEng, offer an implementation model with proven success and remain available from the Institute of Cast Metals Engineers (ICME).\n\nTotal quality management and total productive maintenance are often used interchangeably. However, TQM and TPM share a lot of similarities, but are considered as two different approaches in the official literature. TQM attempts to increase the quality of goods, services and concomitant customer satisfaction by raising awareness of quality concerns across the organization.\n\nTQM is based on five cornerstones: The product, the process that allows the product to be produced, the organization that provides the proper environment needed for the process to work, the leadership that guides the organization, and commitment to excellence throughout the organization.\n\nIn other words, TQM focuses on the quality of the product, while TPM focuses on the equipment used to produce the products. By preventing equipment break-down, improving the quality of the equipment and by standardizing the equipment (results in less variance, so better quality), the quality of the products increases. TQM and TPM can both result in an increase of quality. However, the way of going there is different. TPM can be seen as a way to help achieving the goal of TQM.\n\n"}
{"id": "33136411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33136411", "title": "Tradable sector", "text": "Tradable sector\n\nThe tradable sector of a country's economy is made up of the industry sectors whose output in terms of goods and services are traded internationally, or could be traded internationally given a plausible variation in relative prices. Most commonly, the tradable sector consists largely of sectors of the manufacturing industry, while the non-tradable sector consists of locally-rendered services, including health, education, retail and construction.\n\nTradable jobs can be performed by individuals outside a country: manufacturing, consulting, engineering, finance. Non-tradable jobs can realistically only be performed by domestic workforce: government, health care, hospitality, food service, education, retail, and construction.\n\nIn 1990, Australia's sectoral outputs were 25.8% tradable and 74.2% non-tradable. Mining and manufacturing accounted for 18.3% and 61.4%, respectively, of the tradable sector.\n"}
{"id": "2221576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221576", "title": "Trustee in bankruptcy", "text": "Trustee in bankruptcy\n\nA trustee in bankruptcy is an entity, often an individual, in charge of administering a bankruptcy estate.\n\nIn the United States, a Trustee in Bankruptcy is a person who is appointed by the United States Trustee Program, a division of the United States Department of Justice. In limited circumstances, the creditors involved in a bankruptcy case can elect a trustee.\n\nIn a Chapter 7 Bankruptcy (\"Liquidation\") the trustee gathers the debtor’s non-exempt property, managing the funds from the sale of those assets, and then paying expenses and distributing the balance to the owed creditors.\n\nIn a Chapter 13 Bankruptcy (\"Reorganization\") the trustee is responsible for receiving the debtor’s monthly payments and distributing those funds proportionally to the debtor's creditors. The Bankruptcy Trustee will act on behalf of the debtor to guarantee that both the creditors’ and the debtor’s interests are maintained in accordance with the bankruptcy laws, and will often be required to act as a negotiator between the two parties.\n\nSince the 1990s, duties similar to those of a trustee are sometimes performed by an individual called a Chief restructuring officer (CRO), generally prior to, or subsequent to, a bankruptcy proceeding (generally, a Chapter 11 proceeding). A CRO is an official of the company who has direct contact with the creditors and who has executive power to implement changes. The advantage of using a CRO is that the arrangement gives both the creditor and debtor more say over the future of the company than might be the case where a Chapter 11 bankruptcy trustee is appointed.\n\nSee: Bankruptcy in Canada\n\nIn Canada, a trustee in bankruptcy is an individual or a corporation licensed by the official superintendent to hold in trust and, subsequently, to distribute bankrupt’s property among the creditors in accordance with the distribution scheme under the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (BIA). The bankrupt and all other persons holding bankrupt’s property must transfer the property to trustee. The trustee may also assist individual in preparing and submitting a consumer proposal to creditors. The trustee must arrange mandatory counselling of the bankrupt. The trustee must follow the procedures under the BIA, call creditors meetings and send the parties required notices of proceedings and documents. The trustee is responsible for preparation of pre-discharge report and may oppose the bankrupt’s discharge.\n\n"}
{"id": "47282412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47282412", "title": "Walter Hochschild", "text": "Walter Hochschild\n\nWalter Hochschild (1901 – February 2, 1983) was an American industrialist, having spent 63 years as an executive with the American Metal Company (later AMAX), founded by his father, Berthold Hochschild. He became president of the company in 1950 and chairman and chief executive officer in 1957. He served as a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York for thirty years, and as a lifelong senior trustee of the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations since 1947.\n\nHe built Eagle Nest camp in Blue Mountain Lake, New York, an Adirondack Great Camp.\n\nHe was married to Kathrin Samstag; they had three daughters: Patricia Hochschild Labalme, Lynn Hochschild Boillot, and Ann Hochschild Poole.\n\n"}
{"id": "7705962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7705962", "title": "Álvaro Alsogaray", "text": "Álvaro Alsogaray\n\nÁlvaro Carlos Alsogaray (June 22, 1913 – April 1, 2005) was an Argentine politician and businessman. Minister of Economy during much of the 1959-62 period, he was one of the principal proponents of economic conservatism in modern Argentina.\n\nAlsogaray was born in Esperanza, Santa Fe, in 1913, as the eldest of three children to Julia Elisa Bosch and Álvaro Alsogaray. Born to a prominent local military family, Alsogaray graduated from the National Military College as an infantry officer. He studied military engineering in the Army's School of Higher Technical Studies and civil and aeronautical engineer at the National University of Córdoba. He married Edith Gay in 1940, and had two sons and a daughter.\n\nHe retired from the army with the rank of captain and with two engineering degrees, which led to his being called \"el capitán ingeniero\". He entered business, becoming an important contractor for State enterprises such as FAMA (a predecessor of flag carrier Aerolíneas Argentinas), and briefly served as its director during the presidency of Juan Perón, whose populist politics and policies would later be anathema to Alsogaray's thinking.\n\nAfter the coup that removed Perón in 1955, he held the posts of Under-secretary of Commerce and Minister of Industry, and maintained numerous Peronist staffers at the Undersecretariat despite his support for the coup. He founded the Independent Civic Party in 1956; the party fared modestly in the 1958 elections.\n\nTo placate powerful agrarian interests and other conservatives, the otherwise progressive Arturo Frondizi named Alsogaray Minister of the Economy in early 1959. Inheriting large trade deficits, Alsogaray sharply devalued the peso and imposed severe credit controls on Argentina's large public banks. Declaring that the economy \"must go through winter\", the austerity measures were a boon to exporters - but caused consumer prices to double in 1959, and real wages and construction to fall by about 20%. The resulting trade surplus and pro-growth policies pursued by Frondizi's unofficial point man on the economy, Rogelio Julio Frigerio, both contributed to a robust recovery in 1960 and 1961.\n\nMarginalized in favor of Frigerio after the 1959 recession and deeply unpopular, Alsogaray resigned early in 1961. Frigerio had been President Frondizi's first choice for the critical Economy Ministry, an appointment thwarted by the military; Frondizi and Frigerio later founded the MID, a political party centered around the need for accelerated development.\n\nFrondizi's efforts to mediate differences between the United States and Cuba ultimately resulted in a March, 1962, coup d'état, and Álvaro Alsogaray was able to use the influence of his brother, General Julio Alsogaray, to secure several ministerial and planning posts under Frondizi's military-appointed successor, Senate President José María Guido. Reintroducing many of his restrictive 1959 policies, as well as nearly worthless \"Ninth of July\" bonds, which were issued in lieu of cash payments to public employees and government contractors, the economy again slipped into severe recession; the trade balance improved, albeit the cost of depressed business investment.\n\nOut of power after the election of Dr. Arturo Illia in 1963, Alsogaray devoted himself to undermining the new administration, even during the vigorous economic recovery that followed. Finding allies in conservative business and media interests, the powerful Roman Catholic Church, and his influential brother Julio, Alsogaray and other Illia opponents were successful. Following the 1966 coup against President Illia, he was designated Ambassador to the United States, a post he held until 1968.\n\nAlsogaray founded the 'New Force' in 1972, though like the Independent Civic Party, it fared poorly in the 1973 elections that returned Perón to power. He was among the few conservative figures to publicly oppose the imminent March 1976 coup, but largely supported the subsequent National Reorganization Process. As the dictatorship eventually yielded to calls for elections, he founded the Union of the Democratic Centre (UCeDé) in 1982. Running as a right-wing, economically conservative candidate on the latter ticket, he stood for the Presidency in 1983 and 1989. Alsogaray received two million votes (10%) in his 1989 presidential bid, behind only major party candidates Carlos Menem and Eduardo Angeloz.\n\nContinuing to enjoy a measure of support in Buenos Aires' affluent northside, he and his daughter María Julia Alsogaray were elected the only two national deputies for the UCeDé in 1983, and he served until 1999. A vehement anti-Peronist and anti-socialist, Alsogaray forged an alliance with the late Juan Perón's Justicialist Party in 1989, following their nomination of pro-market Governor Carlos Menem, and endorsed Justicialist candidate Eduardo Vaca that year in a tightly-contested seat in the Argentine Senate representing the City of Buenos Aires. Argentine Senators were indirectly elected at the time, and Alsogaray's endorsement in the electoral college gave Vaca the seat, despite the latter's coming in second to centrist UCR candidate Fernando de la Rúa. The Universidad Francisco Marroquín granted Alsogaray an honorary doctorate in 1985.\n\nA vocal supporter of the era's privatizations, he prevailed on President Menem to appoint his daughter, María Julia, Secretary of the Environment, in which post she served from 1991 to 1999, and himself served in numerous consultative posts during the Menem presidency, endorsing the populist-turned-conservative president in his 1995 re-election bid. Among his most notable roles in this era was as director of a feasibility study in 1995-96 for the replacement of Buenos Aires' two international airports for an island terminal on the Río de la Plata; opposed by de la Rúa, who had been elected Mayor (and would later be President), the project never materialized. His UCedé party languished despite his renewed influence as much due to public mistrust of his policies, as because of rivalries in the party itself – notably between his daughter and Adelina D'Alessio de Viola (whom he had Menem appoint as head of the National Mortgage Bank). Commenting on the dispute, he remarked that \"would it that one's political party could do without affiliates...or women!\" \n\nAlsogaray, who perennially sought television airtime, lived out his last few years in seclusion. He lost his wife in 2004, and died in Buenos Aires the following year at the age of 91. Adamantly conservative, he was of the opinion that, if anything, the 1976-83 dictatorship was too moderate. He felt that some of the most brutal torturers during Dirty War, such as Alfredo Astiz, were \"heroes,\" and even once attempted to use his influence over the Menem administration to have a monument built in their honor.\n"}
