{"id": "1242905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242905", "title": "A Mathematician's Apology", "text": "A Mathematician's Apology\n\nA Mathematician's Apology is a 1940 essay by British mathematician G. H. Hardy. It concerns the aesthetics of mathematics with some personal content, and gives the layman an insight into the mind of a working mathematician.\n\nIn the book's title, Hardy uses the word \"apology\" in the sense of a formal justification or defence (as in Plato's \"Apology of Socrates\"), not in the sense of a plea for forgiveness.\n\nHardy felt the need to justify his life's work in mathematics at this time mainly for two reasons. Firstly, at age 62, Hardy felt the approach of old age (he had survived a heart attack in 1939) and the decline of his mathematical creativity and skills.\nBy devoting time to writing the Apology, Hardy was admitting that his own time as a creative mathematician was finished. In his foreword to the 1967 edition of the book, C. P. Snow describes the Apology as\n\"a passionate lament for creative powers that used to be and that will never come again\".\nIn Hardy's words, \"Exposition, criticism, appreciation, is work for second-rate minds. [...] It is a melancholy experience for a professional mathematician to find himself writing about mathematics. The function of a mathematician is to do something, to prove new theorems, to add to mathematics, and not to talk about what he or other mathematicians have done.\"\n\nSecondly, at the start of the World War II, Hardy, a committed pacifist, wanted to justify his belief that mathematics should be pursued for its own sake rather than for the sake of its applications. He wanted to write a book in which he would explain his mathematical philosophy to the next generation of mathematicians; that would defend mathematics by elaborating on the merits of pure mathematics solely, without having to resort to the attainments of applied mathematics in order to justify the overall importance of mathematics; and that would inspire the upcoming generations of pure mathematicians. Hardy was an atheist, and makes his justification not to God but to his fellow man.\n\nOne of the main themes of the book is the beauty that mathematics possesses, which Hardy compares to painting and poetry. For Hardy, the most beautiful mathematics was that which had no practical applications in the outside world (pure mathematics) and, in particular, his own special field of number theory. Hardy contends that if useful knowledge is defined as knowledge which is likely to contribute to the material comfort of mankind in the near future (if not right now), so that mere intellectual satisfaction is irrelevant, then the great bulk of higher mathematics is useless. He justifies the pursuit of pure mathematics with the argument that its very \"uselessness\" on the whole meant that it could not be misused to cause harm. On the other hand, Hardy denigrates much of the applied mathematics as either being \"trivial\", \"ugly\", or \"dull\", and contrasts it with \"real mathematics\", which is how he ranks the higher, pure mathematics.\n\nHardy expounds by commenting about a phrase attributed to Carl Friedrich Gauss that \"Mathematics is the queen of the sciences and number theory is the queen of mathematics.\" Some people believe that it is the extreme non-applicability of number theory that led Gauss to the above statement about number theory; however, Hardy points out that this is certainly not the reason. If an application of number theory were to be found, then certainly no one would try to dethrone the \"queen of mathematics\" because of that. What Gauss meant, according to Hardy, is that the underlying concepts that constitute number theory are deeper and more elegant compared to those of any other branch of mathematics.\n\nAnother theme is that mathematics is a \"young man's game\", so anyone with a talent for mathematics should develop and use that talent while they are young, before their ability to create original mathematics starts to decline in middle age. This view reflects Hardy's increasing depression at the wane of his own mathematical powers. For Hardy, real mathematics was essentially a creative activity, rather than an explanatory or expository one.\n\nHardy's opinions were heavily influenced by the academic culture of the universities of Cambridge and Oxford between World War I and World War II.\n\nSome of Hardy's examples seem unfortunate in retrospect. For example, he writes, \"No one has yet discovered any warlike purpose to be served by the theory of numbers or relativity, and it seems unlikely that anyone will do so for many years.\" Since then number theory was used to crack German enigma codes and much later, figure prominently in public-key cryptography. However, Hardy's more prominent examples of elegant mathematical discoveries with no use (proofs of the infinitude of primes and of the irrationality of the square root of two) still hold up.\n\nThe applicability of a mathematical concept is not the reason that Hardy considered applied mathematics somehow inferior to pure mathematics, though; it is the simplicity and prosiness that belong to applied mathematics that led him to describe them as he did.\n\nHe considers that Rolle's theorem for example, though it is of some importance for calculus, cannot be compared to the elegance and preeminence of the mathematics produced by Évariste Galois and other pure mathematicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3077900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3077900", "title": "Alfred Baeumler", "text": "Alfred Baeumler\n\nAlfred Baeumler (sometimes Bäumler; ; 19 November 1887 – 19 March 1968), was an Austrian-born pedagogue and prominent Nazi ideologue. From 1924 he taught at the Technische Universität Dresden, at first as an unsalaried lecturer Privatdozent. Bäumler was made associate professor (Extraordinarius) in 1928 and full professor (Ordinarius) a year later. From 1933 he taught philosophy and political education in Berlin as the director of the Institute for Political Pedagogy.\n\nAn influential philosopher in Nazi Germany, Baeumler used Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophy to legitimize Nazism. Thomas Mann read Baeumler's work on Nietzsche in the early 1930s, and characterized passages of it as \"Hitler prophecy\". Baeumler's 1931 book \"Nietzsche, der Philosoph und Politiker\" states:\n\nHis books were published in Italy in the late 1990s by the \"Edizioni di Ar\", a far-right publishing house.\n\n"}
{"id": "40962296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40962296", "title": "Alicja Gescinska", "text": "Alicja Gescinska\n\nAlicja Gescinska (Warsaw, 1981) is a Polish-Belgian philosopher.\n\nGescinska obtained a Master’s degree summa cum laude in Moral Sciences at Ghent University. She became Doctor of Philosophy at the same university in 2012, having written a dissertation on the philosophy of Max Scheler and Karol Wojtyla: \"Freedom and Persons: A Philosophical Inquiry into the Meaning of Human Agency in the Thought of Max Scheler and Karol Wojtyla\".\n\nHer book \"De verovering van de vrijheid\" (The conquest of freedom) – a philosophical and personal reflection on the meaning of freedom – was very well received. It was awarded by deMens.nu as the best non-fiction book of 2010-2011, and was shortlisted for other literary prizes.\n\nIn 2012 she wrote an essay on fear and freedom, which is based on the Freedom Lecture she delivered on the Dutch Liberation Day, 5 May 2012, at Felix Meritis in Amsterdam. The essay concerns the way in which resentment and hatred lead to the decline of personal and political freedom.\n\nFrom 2013-2014 Gescinska worked as a postdoctoral researcher at Princeton University, after which she began working at Amherst College where she teaches courses on the philosophy of freedom and on European politics.\n\nShe is in demand as a pundit in Belgium and The Netherlands. She is a member of the “Philosophical Team” of the Dutch newspaper \"Trouw\", and wrote a fortnightly philosophical column for the Belgian newspaper \"De Morgen\" from 2012 to 2014.\n\nIn 2016 her debut novel, \"Een soort van liefde\" (A Kind of Love), was published by De Bezige Bij. She also presented the programme \"Wanderlust\" on the Belgian television channel Canvas, in which she travelled to meet and interview philosophers, writers, artists and scientists. In the first episode she met English philosopher Roger Scruton, in the second Scottish sculptor Alexander Stoddart, in the third Dutch novelist Connie Palmen, in the fourth neuroscientist Raymond Tallis, and in the fifth Benedictine monk Laurence Freeman.\nIn September 2017 the first episode of the second season of Wanderlust was broadcast. The second season includes episodes with Youssou N'Dour, Theodore Dalrymple, Lesley Hazleton and Sara Maitland. \n"}
{"id": "36232892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36232892", "title": "Angelism", "text": "Angelism\n\nIn theology, angelism is a pejorative for arguments that human being as essentially angelic, and therefore sin-less in actual nature. The term is used as a criticism, to identify ideas which reject conceptions of human nature as being (to some degree) sinful and lustful: \n"}
{"id": "2545476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2545476", "title": "Antonio Labriola", "text": "Antonio Labriola\n\nAntonio Labriola (; 2 July 1843 – 12 February 1904) was an Italian Marxist theoretician. Although an academic philosopher and never an active member of any Marxist political party, his thought exerted influence on many political theorists in Italy during the early 20th century, including the founder of the Italian Liberal Party, Benedetto Croce and the leaders of the Italian Communist Party, Antonio Gramsci and Amadeo Bordiga.\n\nLabriola was born in Cassino (then in the Papal States), the son a schoolteacher. In 1861, he entered the University of Naples. Upon graduating, he remained in Naples and became a schoolteacher. During this period, he pursued an interest in philosophy, history and ethnography. The early 1870s saw Labriola take up journalism and his writings from this time express liberal and anticlerical views.\n\nIn 1874, Labriola was appointed as a professor in Rome, where he was to spend the rest of his life teaching, writing and debating. Although he had been critical of liberalism since 1873, his move towards Marxism was gradual, and he did not explicitly express a socialist viewpoint until 1889. He died in Rome on 2 February 1904.\n\nHeavily influenced by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Johann Friedrich Herbart, Labriola's approach to Marxist theory was more open-ended than the orthodoxy of theorists such as Karl Kautsky. He saw Marxism not as a final, self-sufficient schematisation of history, but rather as a collection of pointers to the understanding of human affairs.\n\nThese pointers needed to be somewhat imprecise if Marxism was to take into account the complicated social processes and variety of forces at work in history. Marxism was to be understood as a \"critical theory\", in the sense that it sees no truths as everlasting, and was ready to drop its own ideas if experience should so dictate. His description of Marxism as a \"philosophy of praxis\" would appear again in Gramsci's \"Prison Notebooks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10775216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10775216", "title": "Armin Mohler", "text": "Armin Mohler\n\nArmin Mohler (12 April 1920 – 4 July 2003) was a Swiss-born far right political writer and philosopher associated with the Neue Rechte movement.\n\nBorn in Basel, Mohler studied at the University of Basel, where he briefly supported communism.\n\nAt 20, he was called up to the Swiss army, but his reading the works of Oswald Spengler as well as the June 1941 German invasion of the Soviet Union made him defect to Nazi Germany, which he supported, in 1942. He aimed to join the Waffen SS, but Mohler was not trusted by the SS authorities, who refused to accept him.\n\nStill, he remained in Berlin for another year before returning to Switzerland, where he was incarcerated for desertion.\n\nAfter World War II, he returned to study in Berlin and completed his doctoral thesis \"Die Konservative Revolution in Deutschland 1918-1932 (The Conservative Revolution in Germany, 1918-1932)\", under Karl Jaspers in 1949. The aim of his thesis was not only scientific but also providing old traditions for new pathways for a non-national socialist right in post-war Germany. In the same year, he worked as a secretary for his idol Ernst Jünger but increasingly felt that Jünger had become too moderate for his taste after the end of the war.\n\nMohler went on to work as a correspondent in Paris for \"Die Zeit\", from 1953 to 1961. After that he lived in Munich, leading the Carl Friedrich von Siemens Foundation. For a brief period he worked as a speech writer for Franz Josef Strauß, but his influence was marginal. In 1967, he became the first to receive the Konrad Adenauer Prize, which provoked strong media attacks on him.\n\nIn 1970, he became a major contributing editor to Caspar von Schrenck-Notzing's conservative monthly magazine \"Criticon\", Germany's most important platform for non-mainstream conservative thought for almost three decades. He died in Munich, at the age of 83.\n\nMohler's seminal work is his book \"Die Konservative Revolution in Deutschland 1918-1932\" (\"The Conservative Revolution in Germany, 1918-1932\"), which initially his doctoral thesis. There, he tried to unearth Weimar Republic right-wing thought and tradition apart from and alternative to National Socialism. The most crucial thinkers of the \"Conservative Revolution\" to him were Ernst Jünger, Oswald Spengler, Carl Schmitt, Ernst Niekisch, Hans Blüher and Thomas Mann (before his turn to liberalism).\n\nMohler was one of the first German publishers to write about the ideas of his long-time friend Alain de Benoist, who founded the Nouvelle Droite. Similar as Benoist, Mohler advocated a Right that would oppose both socialism and liberalism, with a decided emphasis on the latter.\n\nAccording to Michael Minkenberg, Mohler's ideas owed more to the Nouvelle Droite associated with GRECE than the Ostpolitik-derived ideas of a strong German state that was associated with contemporaries like Robert Spaemann and Gerd-Klaus Kaltenbrunner.\n\nOne of his favourite targets was the so-called \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\", which he criticized in several books. That argument involved the claim that postwar Germany should 'step out of Hitler's shadow'. It was thus claimed that Mohler was a forerunner of Ernst Nolte and associated thinkers, who were involved in the \"Historikerstreit\".\n\nIn the 1950s, Mohler contributed to journals such as \"Nation Europa\" and \"Die Tat\" (not to be confused with an older paper of the same title). He also wrote for mainstream newspapers such as \"Die Zeit\" and (in the 1960s and 1970s) \"Die Welt\". In his later years, he supported the \"Neue Rechte\" weekly paper \"Junge Freiheit\".\n\nUnder the alias 'Michael Hintermwald,' he also contributed two articles to Gerhard Frey's \"Deutschen National-Zeitung\" for which he was much criticized.\n\nMohler was initially a supporter of Franz Josef Strauß and the Christian Social Union of Bavaria but later worked with Franz Schönhuber in the founding of The Republicans.\n\nMohler's notion of Conservative Revolution has been described by some, like Roger Griffin, as fascism. In a newspaper interview, Mohler accepted that he was a fascist but only in the tradition of José Antonio Primo de Rivera and with the acceptance of the notion that fascism had its roots in the far left, as argued by Zeev Sternhell.\n\n"}
{"id": "59041318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59041318", "title": "August Wilhelm Rehberg", "text": "August Wilhelm Rehberg\n\nAugust Wilhelm Rehberg (13 January 1757 - 10 August 1836) was a German philosopher.\n"}
{"id": "5628169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5628169", "title": "Catholic spirituality", "text": "Catholic spirituality\n\nCatholic spirituality includes the various ways in which Catholics live out their Baptismal promise through prayer and action. The primary prayer of all Catholics is the Eucharistic liturgy in which they celebrate and share their faith together, in accord with Jesus' instruction: \"Do this in memory of me.\" The Catholic bishops at the Second Vatican Council decreed that \"devotions should be so drawn up that they harmonize with the liturgical seasons, accord with the sacred liturgy, are in some fashion derived from it, and lead the people to it, since, in fact, the liturgy by its very nature far surpasses any of them.\" In accord with this, many additional forms of prayer have developed over the centuries as means of animating one's personal Christian life, at times in gatherings with others. Each of the religious orders and congregations of the Catholic church, as well as lay groupings, has specifics to its own spirituality – its way of approaching God in prayer to foster its way of living out the Gospel.\n\nCatholic piety takes its inspiration from the life and teaching of Jesus Christ. Most fundamentally, Jesus prayed to God the Father, in the Holy Spirit, and recommended that we do the same. In the Gospels his prayer starts with \"Father\" and the prayer he taught his disciples begins with the words \"Our Father\". From this the Catholic Church has developed a piety that for the most part mirrors Jesus's attitude. The prayers of the Mass, the public prayer of the Church, are characteristically addressed to God the Father. The Catholic bishops declared in 1963: \"Devotions should be so drawn up that they harmonize with the liturgical seasons, accord with the sacred liturgy, are in some fashion derived from it, and lead the people to it, since, in fact, the liturgy by its very nature far surpasses any of them.\"\n\nDesert spirituality is a way of seeking God that is characterized by the \"desert theology\" of the Old Testament that remains central to the Judeo-Christian tradition, namely God keeping his People wandering for 40 years in the desert and in subsequent centuries calling them into the desert as a testing ground, where they may experience a change of heart and, by proving themselves obedient to his ordering of human living, again accept him their Creator as also their Lord.\n\nIn New Testament times it is likewise for the reason of discerning God's will and proving his obedience that Jesus of Nazareth retired to the desert after his vocation call (cf. , , ).\n\nThe Christian eremitic vocation has the same purpose, as the name hermit applied to those that embrace it indicates.\n\nAmong those most widely known for living a desert spirituality during the early Christian centuries is St Anthony of Egypt (251-356). He lived as a hermit for ten years, practiced asceticism for his whole life, and grew his own food for sustenance.\n\nFrom the life of someone alone being dedicated to seeking God in the desert, which is the earliest form of Christian monasticism, the monastic life in community has emerged, although the eremitic vocation continues as a distinct way of seeking God even today.\n\nIn practical terms this spiritual quest is pursued through prayer in solitude and asceticism.\n\nSome adherents of desert spirituality – whether as eremitic or cenobitic monastics, or as Christian faithful outside the religious life – practise centering prayer. One form of this prayer has one meditate on a single, sacred word to draw the believer closer to God by withdrawing compulsive infatuation with particular sensory objects and conceptual constructions. This practice was prominent in Catholic practice (at least) as early as the 13th century, as evinced by works such as \"The Cloud of Unknowing\" – written anonymously in Middle English by a Catholic monastic.\n\nBenedictine spirituality is characterized by striving towards Christian perfection in community, liturgical prayer, and separation from worldly concerns. St. Benedict (480-550) is considered to be the Father of Western Monasticism. He wrote The Rule and established his first monastery at Monte Cassino, Italy. Lectio Divina is a Benedictine prayer form based on praying with the Word of God. Lectio Divina has four \"moments\": Lectio (Reading Scripture), Meditatio (Reflection on the Word), Oratio (Praying), and Contemplatio (Silently listening to God). As practiced today it includes coming together several times daily to sing God's praises, so that gratitude to God might fill all one's work. Key people involved in the 20th and 21st century include Thomas Merton and Basil Pennington.\n\nFranciscan spirituality is characterized by a life of poverty, love of nature, and charitable deeds towards those in need. St. Francis of Assisi (1182–1226) was the son of a wealthy merchant. He rejected all of his possessions and founded a community of brothers (friars) who lived in poverty and served the poor. Franciscan prayer recognizes God's presence in the wonder of creation, as expressed in St. Francis' Canticle of the Sun. Franciscan spirituality is focused on walking in Christ's footsteps and sharing one's experience of God.\n\nDominican spirituality is characterized by poverty, preaching God's Word, and defense of Catholic doctrine. St. Dominic (1170–1221) encountered heretics on a journey in France. His opinion was that the people were not to blame, the preachers were. If there are good, orthodox preachers, then the people will be good and orthodox also. And so he founded the \"Order of Preachers\" or \"Dominicans\", who draw their inspiration from contemplating Christ's humanity. One of the ways of praying that goes back to the Dominicans is the Rosary. Legend has it that Mary herself gave the Rosary to Dominic. The Rosary is characteristic of Dominican spirituality because it focuses attention on the principal mysteries of the life of Jesus Christ, can lead to contemplation, and is a way of proclaiming the truths of faith. Some members of the Dominican Order have made significant contributions to Catholic thought as did St. Thomas Aquinas, the most prominent scholar in the Scholastic tradition. He argued that teaching the faith was a superior form of contemplative prayer.\n\nIgnatian spirituality is characterized by examination of one's life, discerning the will of God, finding God in all things (hence their motto \"Ad maiorem Dei gloriam\" or \"For the Greater Glory of God\"), and living the Resurrection. St. Ignatius of Loyola (1491–1556) was a wounded soldier when he first began to read about Christ and the saints. He had a conversion experience while healing which led over time to his founding the Society of Jesus, known as the Jesuits. His classic, the Spiritual Exercises, is a guide for making a retreats, for which he is the Church's patron. Jesuits are quite diverse, despite rumors to the contrary, but are united by a zeal that comes from every Jesuit making the Spiritual Exercises. Lay Catholics make a shortened version of the Exercises at retreat houses wherein the director, as did Ignatius, guides each retreatant separately through reflections and \"application of the senses\" to Jesus' life, for discernment as to what God is asking of them.\n\nIgnatian Spirituality incorporates elements from earlier spiritual traditions: finding God in all things, or being a contemplative in action, has been likened to the spirituality of St. Francis of Assisi whom Ignatius admired. Meditation/contemplation on the Gospels has roots in the Benedictine Lectio Divina. However, Ignatian Spirituality is adaptable as is clear from Ignatius' book on the Exercises. For instance, Pedro Arrupe (1907-1991), a prominent Superior General of the Jesuits from 1965-1983, was known for incorporating Zen meditative techniques to assist in his concentration. Another example of adaptability is the extent to which the individual exercitant applies imagination, quite presence, or discursive reasoning to the events of Jesus' life, to arrive at closer knowledge and following of the Lord.\n\nCarmelite spirituality is characterised by interior detachment, silence, solitude, the desire for spiritual progress, and insight into mystical experiences. The roots of the Carmelite Order go back to a group of hermits living on Mt. Carmel in Israel during the 12th Century. Saints John of the Cross (1542–1591) and Teresa of Ávila (1515–1582) were Carmelite mystics whose writings are spiritual classics. In \"Ascent of Mount Carmel\" John of the Cross teaches that purgation of the soul through mortification and suppression of desires is necessary for the transition through darkness to divine union with God. Teresa of Avila emphasized the importance of mental prayer which she defined as \"spending time with a friend whom we know loves us.\"\n\nOther important figures in Carmelite Spirituality include Thérèse of Lisieux (Doctor of the Church), Mary Magdalene de Pazzi, Sister Lúcia of Fátima, Nuno of Saint Mary, Elizabeth of the Trinity, Marie-Antoinette de Geuser known as \"Consumata\", Edith Stein, Teresa of Los Andes, Teresa Margaret of the Sacred Heart, Joaquina de Vedruna, Angelus of Jerusalem, and Brother Lawrence.\n\nRedemptorist spirituality consists of the Crib, the Cross, and the Sacrament. In other words, the Redemptorists follow Christ in his incarnation, death, and resurrection and believe that he is always with them. They emphasize the encounter with Christ in the Blessed Sacrament, and have their founder's popular version of the Way of the Cross and the Christmas carols which he composed. With a practical focus, Redemptorist spirituality would render help to the those in dire spiritual or material need, based on Jesus' invitation to follow him. One of the most tangible ways they do this is to proclaim the Gospel in simple ways to ordinary people, taking as their motto Jesus' words when he quoted Isaiah: “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me…. to preach Good News to the poor,… liberty to captives,… sight to the blind,… to proclaim the year of the Lord's favour (Luke 4:18-19). \nThe spirituality of the Servite order is focused on contemplating Mary at the foot of the cross as a model for Christian life and service to the suffering. Moreover, because the order has Seven Holy Founders rather than one individual founder, there is a particular emphasis on the communal aspect of Christian life. This spirituality finds expression particularly in the Rosary of the Seven Sorrows.\n\n\"God Alone\" was the motto of Saint Louis de Montfort and is repeated over 150 times in his writings. \"God Alone\" is also the title of his collected writings. Briefly speaking, based on his writings, Montfortian spirituality can be summed up by the formula: \"To God Alone, by Christ Wisdom, in the Spirit, in communion with Mary, for the reign of God.\" Although St Louis is perhaps best known for his Mariology and devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, his spirituality is founded on the mystery of the Incarnation and is centered on Christ, as is clear in his famous Prayer to Jesus.\n\nThe Second Vatican Council popularized spiritual movements among Catholics, and some lay Catholics now engage in regular contemplative practices such as centering prayer. Consistent with Vatican II, contemporary spiritual movements usually emphasize the necessity both of an interior relationship with God (private prayer) and works of justice and charity. Major 20th century writers who sought to draw together the contemplative and active poles of Christian spirituality have been Dorothy Day, Thomas Merton, and Richard Rohr.\n\nThe purpose of all lay movements in the Catholic Church is to spread in society a deep awareness that every person is called by Baptism to live be a holy life and each in his own way to become an ambassador of Christ, For the majority of Christians, God calls them to sanctiy through their ordinary lives by an ever-growing charity in the way they think, speak, and act, beginning at home, the domestic church, but extending to the local Christian community, the workplace, and to all peoples, all God's children.\n\nThe Christian Life Community (CLC) is an international association of lay Christians who have adopted an Ignatian model of spiritual life. The 'Community' is present in almost sixty countries. The CLC traces its foundation to 1563, when the Jesuit John Leunis gathered a group of lay students at the Roman College to form the Sodality of Our Lady. The Sodality grew and was confirmed by Pope Gregory XIII in 1584. When the Second Vatican Council urged groups like the Sodality to rediscover their original roots, some sodalities continued as before, while others became Christian Life Communities. The main difference is in the size (6 to 12) and the regularity of meeting (weekly or biweekly).\n\nThe CLC draws its inspiration from the teachings of St. Ignatius of Loyola, and receives spiritual guidance from the Jesuits. The experience of making the Spiritual Exercises of St Ignatius is of paramount importance to the members of the CLC. Members are encouraged to adhere to a lifestyle which is gospel-based and simple, to serve the poor and to integrate contemplation and action. As Ignatian spirituality has an essential apostolic dimension, members of the CLC do reflect also on how to bring Gospel values into all aspects of life in today's world.\n\nCharismatic spirituality reflects a belief that the spiritual gifts present in the early Christian communities are still available to the Church today. More active sharing of spiritual experiences in community characterizes this spirituality.\n\nSchoenstatt emphasizes a strong devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, upholding her as a perfect example of love and purity. Schoenstatt seeks to invite the Blessed Mother (and hence her divine Son, Jesus Christ) into the home by establishing a spiritual Covenant of Love with her. It encourages its members to have the faith and purity of children, and to think of Mary as their mother.\n\nIn 1943 in northern Italy during World War II, Chiara Lubich, together with a small group of friends, concluded that God is the only ideal worth living for. The Focolare movement was founded as a result. The goal was to strive towards the fulfillment of Jesus’ prayer to the Father: “That they all may be one” (John 17:21). A spirituality of unity resulted and gave rise to a movement of spiritual and social renewal. Now embracing over 5 million members in 182 countries, Focolare (which means hearth) draws together groups of families, neighbors, and friends to build community and to extend the works of the Gospel.\n\nThe Sant'Egidio community began with a group of high school students in the 1960s who were convinced by a local priest in Rome to try an experiment: live for a time as the early Christian disciples did, gathering for prayer and shared meals daily in their neighborhood as well as joining together in the corporal and spiritual works of mercy. The community thrived and has now become a global movement of communities working for peace and justice, strengthened by daily life in common and prayer.\n\nOpus Dei predated the Second Vatican Council in its emphasis on the laity. Founded by St. Josemaría Escrivá, Opus Dei's spirituality is based on life in the secular world. The \"sanctification of work\" consists in offering all work, however ordinary, to God. This implies that one always does one's best. To be a contemplative is to integrate one's life (\"unity of life\") in faithfulness to the Catholic Church and in solidarity with all those with whom one comes into contact, living a life of faith in all circumstances of each day. As John Allen says: people who follow this spirituality enter a church and leave it for the same reason – to get closer to God. The members of Opus Dei and its cooperators have committed to convert their daily work into prayer. Pope John Paul I, a few years before his election, wrote that Escrivá was more radical than other saints who taught about the universal call to holiness. While others emphasized monastic spirituality applied to lay people, for Escrivá \"it is the material work itself which must be turned into prayer and sanctity,\" thus providing a comprehensive lay spirituality. Expressed this way, Opus Dei builds on \"finding God in all things\" from Ignatian spirituality and emphasizes the universality of this path to holiness.\n\nRegnum Christi focuses on the mission of every baptized person to evangelize. Each member is called to pray, meet in community, and do some form of apostolate (which varies from member to member). Their motto is \"Love Christ, Serve People, Build the Church.\" They express their ethos as loving Christ, Mary, Souls, the Church, and the Pope. Regnum Christi is somewhat unusual among the lay movements as it is bound to a religious community, the Legion of Christ.\n\n\nLay spirituality\n\n"}
{"id": "32572189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32572189", "title": "Editio Octava Critica Maior", "text": "Editio Octava Critica Maior\n\nEditio Octava Critica Maior is a critical edition of the Greek New Testament produced by Constantin von Tischendorf. It was Tischendorf's eighth edition of the Greek Testament, and the most important, published between 1864 and 1894.\n\nThe first volume was issued in 11 parts, beginning in 1864. They were published in two volumes in 1869 and 1872. The edition was accompanied by a rich critical apparatus in which he assembled all of the variant readings that he or his predecessors had found in manuscripts, versions, and fathers.\n\nTischendorf died before he could finish his edition, and the third volume, containing the Prolegomena, was prepared and edited by C. R. Gregory and issued in three parts (1884, 1890, 1894).\n\nTischendorf gave the evidence known in his time. He used 64 uncial manuscripts, a single papyrus manuscript, and a small number of minuscule manuscripts. He could not verify everything he cited and sometimes in his apparatus he gives notations such as \"cop ap Mill et Wtst\", i.e. \"Coptic manuscript according to Mill and Westtstein\". The manuscripts are cited completely and accurately. The number of inaccuracies is smaller than in 20th-century manual editions.\n\nTischendorf did not have a detailed textual theory. In practice he had a strong preference for the readings of the manuscript of his own discovery – Codex Sinaiticus. His text is eclectic but generally the Alexandrian. It has also something from the Western text-type, especially when it agrees with Codex Bezae.\n\nAt the beginning of his work Tischendorf had practically no access to Codex Vaticanus, and it was published too late to alter the basic structure of Tischendorf's edition.\n\nTischendorf's \"Editio Octava\" and \"The New Testament in the Original Greek\" of Westcott and Hort were sufficient to make the Textus Receptus obsolete for the scholarly world.\n\nAccording to Eberhard Nestle the text of the eighth edition differs from the seventh edition in 3,572 places. Nestle has accused this edition of giving weight to the evidence of Codex Sinaiticus. Nestle used \"Editio octava\" in his \"Novum Testamentum Graece\" for its extensive representation of the manuscript tradition and Westcott-Hort's text for its development of the methodology of the Textual Criticism. Nestle called Tischendorf's edition \"the most complete survey of what has been done on the Greek New Testament up to the present time\".\n\nThe edition was reprinted in 1965. According to Kurt Aland even a century later it was still of value for scholarly research.\n\nTischendorf proposed his own critical apparatus – symbols and abbreviations – in this work. The critical apparatus used in \"Editio Octava\" is still used by some textual critics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48136851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48136851", "title": "Edward Bentham", "text": "Edward Bentham\n\nEdward Bentham (23 July 1707 – 1 August 1776) was an Oxford based theologian who in 1763, with some evident reluctance, became Regius Professor of Divinity at Oxford University.\n\nEdward Bentham was born at Ely where his father, the Rev. Samuel Bentham, was employed as a minor canon at the cathedral. The Benthams were a clerical family, and Edward was the sixth priest in a continuous descent from Thomas Bentham (1513/14–1579), Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield. His younger brother, James Bentham achieved distinction as an antiquarian and historian of Ely Cathedral. The family were distant cousins of the philosopher and reformer Jeremy Bentham (1748–1832).\n\nIn 1717, on the recommendation of Dr. Smalridge, then a fellow of Christ Church college, Bentham was sent away to Oxford where he sang as a chorister at Christ Church, before entering the college as a student on 28 March 1724. He studied under the supervision of John Burton, a cousin who became also a friend. He was listed as a scholar in 1726. Sources commend Bentham's erudition and even temperament. As soon as he had taken his Bachelor of Arts degree he was invited by the principal of Magdalen Hall to become vice-principal of that college, and took up the appointment on 6 March 1730 (Gregorian), still aged only 22. However, the appointment proved short-lived, since on 23 April 1731 he was elected to the fellowship at Oriel College, where he was appointed a tutor the next year. He retained the tutorship at Oriel till 1752.\n\nFurther promotions and appointments followed. He obtained his Bachelor of Divinity degree on 26 March 1743, becoming a Doctor of Divinity in 1749. On 22 April 1743 he was allocated a Prebendary stall at Hereford Cathedral. At Oxford he was nominated as a canon at Christ Church in April 1754, the previous canon, a Dr. Newton, having died. Bentham's installation followed on 9 June 1754, and while canon he also acted as subdean and treasurer for more than another twelve years. He set in place reforms to address the \"great confusion\" in the \"affairs of the [cathedral] treasury\" which he found on taking up his appointment. (There is also mention made of the \"negligence of the deputy [treasurer]\".)\n\nIt was at this time, on 22 June 1754, that Edward Bentham married Elizabeth Bates (died 1790) from Alton in the nearby county of Hampshire.\n\nEdward Bentham's appointment to the Oxford regius professorship of divinity took place in May or June 1763, following the death of the previous incumbent, John Fanshawe. The professorship came with an automatic entitlement to a canonry at Christ Church: unfortunately, however, the eighth prebendary chair to which this canonry entitled him was lower in the Christ Church cathedral hierarchy than the fifth prebendary chair which Bentham had up till now occupied since 1754. In this sense, it was impossible to avoid the observation that elevation to the regius professorship represented not merely an academic promotion but also a canonical demotion. In this context the Archbishop of Canterbury supplied a critique of the appointment (which he had himself recommended to the king and energetically encouraged Bentham to accept) in a letter written to the Archbishop of York on 31 May 1763: \"I am sorry for poor Bentham, but I am glad for the University\". It is also reported that Edward Bentham's brother, the church historian James Bentham, saw the regius professorship as a step along the way to further ecclesiastical promotion; but in the event Edward Bentham was still serving as the Oxford University regius professor of divinity when he died more than thirteen years later, in October 1776.\n\nBentham was an active regius professor. Encouraged by Archbishop Secker, in 1764 he instigated a yearly course of thrice weekly lectures for those intending to seek ordination into the English priesthood. The \"striking innovation\" in this context, according to the twentieth-century historian R.Greaves, was that Bentham did not charge any fees to students attending the lectures. Surviving notes by students indicate a real-world practical approach, coupled with an adherence to the lecturer's own moderate high church biblical orthodoxy.\n\nDuring his lifetime Bentham was noted as an early riser who had often completed half a day's work before many others had begun their day. He enjoyed good health, but during his final years suffered a sporadic weakness in his eyes, attributed to \"too free an use of them when he was young\". He was incapacitated by his final illness from 23 July 1776, but battled on with his studies \"like a faithful soldier, in the exercise of his religion\", dying at the start of the next month.\n\nEdward Bentham had a wide circle of friends in the academic world, but he also had his critics, and he seems to have made a long term enemy of William King, the Master of St Mary Hall (college), who after his death described Bentham waspishly as \"Half a casuist, half lawyer, half Courtier, half Cit, Half Tory, half Whig (may I add, half a Wit?)\".\n\nAfter his death there were many, including his brother James, who went into print with the opinion that he should have advanced further in his career than he did, but there are signs elsewhere that he lacked some of the ambition and political skill necessary for such advancement, \"a very honest, virtuous, good man; a good husband and father, and an excellent brother, but ...[a] poor creature ... in conversation, manner, and behaviour...a plodding, industrious man, bred under his cousin John Burton of Eton,\" according to the antiquary William Cole who evidently knew him. The criticisms are more quotable, and more quoted, than the plaudits, but it is nevertheless clear that Edward Bentham was also widely admired and liked.\n"}
{"id": "39725742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39725742", "title": "Egocentric presentism", "text": "Egocentric presentism\n\nEgocentric presentism is a form of solipsism introduced by Caspar Hare in which other persons can be conscious, but their experiences are simply not .\n\nSimilarly, in related work, Hare argues for a theory of perspectival realism in which other perspectives do exist, but the present perspective has a defining intrinsic property.\n\nIn one example that Hare uses to illustrate his theory (starting on page 354 of the official version of his paper), you learn that you are one of two people, named A and B, who have just been in a train crash; and that A is about to have incredibly painful surgery. You cannot remember your name. Naturally, you hope to be B! The point of the example is that you know everything relevant that there is to know about the objective world; all that is missing is position in it, that is, whose experiences are , A's or B's. This example is easily handled by egocentric presentism because under this theory, the case where the present experiences are A's is fundamentally different from the case where the present experiences are B's. Hare points out that similar examples can be given to support theories like presentism in the philosophy of time.\n\nSeveral other philosophers have written reviews of Hare's work on this topic. Giovanni Merlo has given a detailed comparison to his own closely related subjectivist theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11319", "title": "Francis Bacon", "text": "Francis Bacon\n\nFrancis Bacon, 1st Viscount St Alban, (; 22 January 15619 April 1626) was an English philosopher and statesman, who served as Attorney General, and as Lord Chancellor of England. His works are credited with developing the scientific method, and remained influential through the scientific revolution.\n\nBacon has been called the father of empiricism. His works argued for the possibility of scientific knowledge based only upon inductive reasoning and careful observation of events in nature. Most importantly, he argued this could be achieved by use of a sceptical and methodical approach whereby scientists aim to avoid misleading themselves. While his own practical ideas about such a method, the \"Baconian method\", did not have a long-lasting influence, the general idea of the importance and possibility of a sceptical methodology makes Bacon the father of the scientific method. This marked a new turn in the rhetorical and theoretical framework for science, the practical details of which are still central in debates about science and methodology today. In addition to his work in the sciences, Bacon was also a venerable patron of libraries and developed a functional system for the cataloging of books by dividing them into three categories—history, poetry, and philosophy—which could further be divided into more specific subjects and subheadings.\n\nBacon is the first recipient of the Queen's counsel designation, which was conferred in 1597 when Queen Elizabeth reserved Bacon as her legal advisor. After the accession of King James I in 1603, Bacon was knighted. He was later created Baron Verulam in 1618 and Viscount St. Alban in 1621. Because he had no heirs, both titles became extinct upon his death in 1626, at 65 years of age. Bacon died of pneumonia, with one account by John Aubrey stating that he had contracted the condition while studying the effects of freezing on the preservation of meat. He is buried at St Michael's Church, St Albans, Hertfordshire.\n\nFrancis Bacon was born on 22 January 1561 at York House near the Strand in London, the son of Sir Nicholas Bacon by his second wife, Anne (Cooke) Bacon, the daughter of the noted humanist Anthony Cooke. His mother's sister was married to William Cecil, 1st Baron Burghley, making Burghley Bacon's uncle.\n\nBiographers believe that Bacon was educated at home in his early years owing to poor health, which would plague him throughout his life. He received tuition from John Walsall, a graduate of Oxford with a strong leaning toward Puritanism. He entered Trinity College, Cambridge, on 5 April 1573 at the age of 12, living for three years there, together with his older brother Anthony Bacon under the personal tutelage of Dr John Whitgift, future Archbishop of Canterbury. Bacon's education was conducted largely in Latin and followed the medieval curriculum. He was also educated at the University of Poitiers. It was at Cambridge that he first met Queen Elizabeth, who was impressed by his precocious intellect, and was accustomed to calling him \"The young lord keeper\".\n\nHis studies brought him to the belief that the methods and results of science as then practised were erroneous. His reverence for Aristotle conflicted with his rejection of Aristotelian philosophy, which seemed to him barren, disputatious and wrong in its objectives.\n\nOn 27 June 1576, he and Anthony entered \"de societate magistrorum\" at Gray's Inn. A few months later, Francis went abroad with Sir Amias Paulet, the English ambassador at Paris, while Anthony continued his studies at home. The state of government and society in France under Henry III afforded him valuable political instruction. For the next three years he visited Blois, Poitiers, Tours, Italy, and Spain. During his travels, Bacon studied language, statecraft, and civil law while performing routine diplomatic tasks. On at least one occasion he delivered diplomatic letters to England for Walsingham, Burghley, and Leicester, as well as for the queen.\n\nThe sudden death of his father in February 1579 prompted Bacon to return to England. Sir Nicholas had laid up a considerable sum of money to purchase an estate for his youngest son, but he died before doing so, and Francis was left with only a fifth of that money. Having borrowed money, Bacon got into debt. To support himself, he took up his residence in law at Gray's Inn in 1579, his income being supplemented by a grant from his mother Lady Anne of the manor of Marks near Romford in Essex, which generated a rent of £46.\n\nBacon stated that he had three goals: to uncover truth, to serve his country, and to serve his church. He sought to further these ends by seeking a prestigious post. In 1580, through his uncle, Lord Burghley, he applied for a post at court that might enable him to pursue a life of learning, but his application failed. For two years he worked quietly at Gray's Inn, until he was admitted as an outer barrister in 1582.\n\nHis parliamentary career began when he was elected MP for Bossiney, Cornwall, in a by-election in 1581. In 1584 he took his seat in parliament for Melcombe in Dorset, and in 1586 for Taunton. At this time, he began to write on the condition of parties in the church, as well as on the topic of philosophical reform in the lost tract \"Temporis Partus Maximus\". Yet he failed to gain a position that he thought would lead him to success. He showed signs of sympathy to Puritanism, attending the sermons of the Puritan chaplain of Gray's Inn and accompanying his mother to the Temple Church to hear Walter Travers. This led to the publication of his earliest surviving tract, which criticised the English church's suppression of the Puritan clergy. In the Parliament of 1586, he openly urged execution for the Catholic Mary, Queen of Scots.\n\nAbout this time, he again approached his powerful uncle for help; this move was followed by his rapid progress at the bar. He became a bencher in 1586 and was elected a Reader in 1587, delivering his first set of lectures in Lent the following year. In 1589, he received the valuable appointment of reversion to the Clerkship of the Star Chamber, although he did not formally take office until 1608; the post was worth £1,600 a year.\n\nIn 1588 he became MP for Liverpool and then for Middlesex in 1593. He later sat three times for Ipswich (1597, 1601, 1604) and once for Cambridge University (1614).\n\nHe became known as a liberal-minded reformer, eager to amend and simplify the law. Though a friend of the crown, he opposed feudal privileges and dictatorial powers. He spoke against religious persecution. He struck at the House of Lords in its usurpation of the Money Bills. He advocated for the union of England and Scotland, which made him a significant influence toward the consolidation of the United Kingdom; and he later would advocate for the integration of Ireland into the Union. Closer constitutional ties, he believed, would bring greater peace and strength to these countries.\n\nBacon soon became acquainted with Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, Queen Elizabeth's favourite. By 1591 he acted as the earl's confidential adviser.\n\nIn 1592 he was commissioned to write a tract in response to the Jesuit Robert Parson's anti-government polemic, which he titled \"Certain observations made upon a libel\", identifying England with the ideals of democratic Athens against the belligerence of Spain.\n\nBacon took his third parliamentary seat for Middlesex when in February 1593 Elizabeth summoned Parliament to investigate a Roman Catholic plot against her. Bacon's opposition to a bill that would levy triple subsidies in half the usual time offended the Queen: opponents accused him of seeking popularity, and for a time the Court excluded him from favour.\n\nWhen the office of Attorney General fell vacant in 1594, Lord Essex's influence was not enough to secure the position for Bacon and it was given to Sir Edward Coke. Likewise, Bacon failed to secure the lesser office of Solicitor General in 1595, the Queen pointedly snubbing him by appointing Sir Thomas Fleming instead. To console him for these disappointments, Essex presented him with a property at Twickenham, which Bacon subsequently sold for £1,800.\n\nIn 1597 Bacon became the first Queen's Counsel designate, when Queen Elizabeth reserved him as her legal counsel. In 1597, he was also given a patent, giving him precedence at the Bar. Despite his designations, he was unable to gain the status and notoriety of others. In a plan to revive his position he unsuccessfully courted the wealthy and young widow Lady Elizabeth Hatton. His courtship failed after she broke off their relationship upon accepting marriage to Sir Edward Coke, a further spark of enmity between the men. In 1598 Bacon was arrested for debt. Afterward, however, his standing in the Queen's eyes improved. Gradually, Bacon earned the standing of one of the learned counsels. His relationship with the Queen further improved when he severed ties with Essexa shrewd move, as Essex would be executed for treason in 1601.\n\nWith others, Bacon was appointed to investigate the charges against Essex. A number of Essex's followers confessed that Essex had planned a rebellion against the Queen. Bacon was subsequently a part of the legal team headed by the Attorney General Sir Edward Coke at Essex's treason trial. After the execution, the Queen ordered Bacon to write the official government account of the trial, which was later published as \"A DECLARATION of the Practices and Treasons attempted and committed by Robert late Earle of Essex and his Complices, against her Majestie and her Kingdoms ...\" after Bacon's first draft was heavily edited by the Queen and her ministers.\n\nAccording to his personal secretary and chaplain, William Rawley, as a judge Bacon was always tender-hearted, \"looking upon the examples with the eye of severity, but upon the person with the eye of pity and compassion\". And also that \"he was free from malice\", \"no revenger of injuries\", and \"no defamer of any man\".\n\nThe succession of James I brought Bacon into greater favour. He was knighted in 1603. In another shrewd move, Bacon wrote his \"Apologies\" in defence of his proceedings in the case of Essex, as Essex had favoured James to succeed to the throne.\n\nThe following year, during the course of the uneventful first parliament session, Bacon married Alice Barnham. In June 1607 he was at last rewarded with the office of solicitor general. The following year, he began working as the Clerkship of the Star Chamber. Despite a generous income, old debts still could not be paid. He sought further promotion and wealth by supporting King James and his arbitrary policies.\n\nIn 1610 the fourth session of James's first parliament met. Despite Bacon's advice to him, James and the Commons found themselves at odds over royal prerogatives and the king's embarrassing extravagance. The House was finally dissolved in February 1611. Throughout this period Bacon managed to stay in the favour of the king while retaining the confidence of the Commons.\n\nIn 1613 Bacon was finally appointed attorney general, after advising the king to shuffle judicial appointments. As attorney general, Bacon, by his zealous efforts—which included torture—to obtain the conviction of Edmund Peacham for treason, raised legal controversies of high constitutional importance; and successfully prosecuted Robert Carr, 1st Earl of Somerset, and his wife, Frances Howard, Countess of Somerset, for murder in 1616. The so-called Prince's Parliament of April 1614 objected to Bacon's presence in the seat for Cambridge and to the various royal plans that Bacon had supported. Although he was allowed to stay, parliament passed a law that forbade the attorney general to sit in parliament. His influence over the king had evidently inspired resentment or apprehension in many of his peers. Bacon, however, continued to receive the King's favour, which led to his appointment in March 1617 as temporary Regent of England (for a period of a month), and in 1618 as Lord Chancellor. On 12 July 1618 the king created Bacon Baron Verulam, of Verulam, in the Peerage of England; he then became known as Francis, Lord Verulam.\n\nBacon continued to use his influence with the king to mediate between the throne and Parliament, and in this capacity he was further elevated in the same peerage, as Viscount St Alban, on 27 January 1621.\n\nBacon's public career ended in disgrace in 1621. After he fell into debt, a parliamentary committee on the administration of the law charged him with 23 separate counts of corruption. His lifelong enemy, Sir Edward Coke, who had instigated these accusations, was one of those appointed to prepare the charges against the chancellor. To the lords, who sent a committee to enquire whether a confession was really his, he replied, \"My lords, it is my act, my hand, and my heart; I beseech your lordships to be merciful to a broken reed.\" He was sentenced to a fine of £40,000 and committed to the Tower of London at the king's pleasure; the imprisonment lasted only a few days and the fine was remitted by the king. More seriously, parliament declared Bacon incapable of holding future office or sitting in parliament. He narrowly escaped undergoing degradation, which would have stripped him of his titles of nobility. Subsequently, the disgraced viscount devoted himself to study and writing.\n\nThere seems little doubt that Bacon had accepted gifts from litigants, but this was an accepted custom of the time and not necessarily evidence of deeply corrupt behaviour. While acknowledging that his conduct had been lax, he countered that he had never allowed gifts to influence his judgement and, indeed, he had on occasion given a verdict against those who had paid him. He even had an interview with King James in which he assured:\nHe also wrote the following to Buckingham:\nThe true reason for his acknowledgement of guilt is the subject of debate, but some authors speculate that it may have been prompted by his sickness, or by a view that through his fame and the greatness of his office he would be spared harsh punishment. He may even have been blackmailed, with a threat to charge him with sodomy, into confession.\n\nThe British jurist Basil Montagu wrote in Bacon's defence, concerning the episode of his public disgrace:\n\nBacon was a devout Anglican. He believed that philosophy and the natural world must be studied inductively, but argued that we can only study arguments for the existence of God. Information on His attributes (such as nature, action, and purposes) can only come from special revelation. But Bacon also held that knowledge was cumulative, that study encompassed more than a simple preservation of the past. \"Knowledge is the rich storehouse for the glory of the Creator and the relief of man's estate,\" he wrote. In his Essays, he affirms that \"a little philosophy inclineth man's mind to atheism, but depth in philosophy bringeth men's minds about to religion.\"\n\nBacon's idea of idols of the mind may have self-consciously represented an attempt to Christianize science at the same time as developing a new, reliable scientific method; Bacon gave worship of Neptune as an example of the idola tribus fallacy, hinting at the religious dimensions of his critique of the idols.\n\nWhen he was 36, Bacon courted Elizabeth Hatton, a young widow of 20. Reportedly, she broke off their relationship upon accepting marriage to a wealthier man, Bacon's rival, Sir Edward Coke. Years later, Bacon still wrote of his regret that the marriage to Hatton had not taken place.\n\nAt the age of 45, Bacon married Alice Barnham, the 14-year-old daughter of a well-connected London alderman and MP. Bacon wrote two sonnets proclaiming his love for Alice. The first was written during his courtship and the second on his wedding day, 10 May 1606. When Bacon was appointed lord chancellor, \"by special Warrant of the King\", Lady Bacon was given precedence over all other Court ladies. Bacon's personal secretary and chaplain, William Rawley, wrote in his biography of Bacon that his marriage was one of \"much conjugal love and respect\", mentioning a robe of honour that he gave to Alice and which \"she wore unto her dying day, being twenty years and more after his death\".\n\nHowever, an increasing number of reports circulated about friction in the marriage, with speculation that this may have been due to Alice's making do with less money than she had once been accustomed to. It was said that she was strongly interested in fame and fortune, and when household finances dwindled, she complained bitterly. Bunten wrote in her \"Life of Alice Barnham\" that, upon their descent into debt, she went on trips to ask for financial favours and assistance from their circle of friends. Bacon disinherited her upon discovering her secret romantic relationship with Sir John Underhill. He subsequently rewrote his will, which had previously been very generousleaving her lands, goods, and incomeand instead revoked it all.\n\nSeveral authors believe that despite his marriage Bacon was primarily attracted to the same sex. Forker, for example, has explored the \"historically documentable sexual preferences\" of both Francis Bacon and King James I and concluded they were both orientated to \"masculine love\", a contemporary term that \"seems to have been used exclusively to refer to the sexual preference of men for members of their own gender.\" The well-connected antiquary John Aubrey noted in his \"Brief Lives\" concerning Bacon, \"He was a Pederast. His Ganimeds and Favourites tooke Bribes\". The Jacobean antiquarian, Sir Simonds D'Ewes implied there had been a question of bringing him to trial for buggery, which his brother Anthony Bacon had also been charged with.\n\nThis conclusion has been disputed by others, who point to lack of consistent evidence, and consider the sources to be more open to interpretation. Publicly, at least, Bacon distanced himself from the idea of homosexuality. In his \"New Atlantis\", he described his utopian island as being \"the chastest nation under heaven\", and \"as for masculine love, they have no touch of it\".\n\nOn 9 April 1626, Francis Bacon died of pneumonia while at Arundel mansion at Highgate outside London. An influential account of the circumstances of his death was given by John Aubrey's \"Brief Lives\". Aubrey's vivid account, which portrays Bacon as a martyr to experimental scientific method, had him journeying to Highgate through the snow with the King's physician when he is suddenly inspired by the possibility of using the snow to preserve meat:They were resolved they would try the experiment presently. They alighted out of the coach and went into a poor woman's house at the bottom of Highgate hill, and bought a fowl, and made the woman exenterate it.\n\nAfter stuffing the fowl with snow, Bacon contracted a fatal case of pneumonia. Some people, including Aubrey, consider these two contiguous, possibly coincidental events as related and causative of his death:The Snow so chilled him that he immediately fell so extremely ill, that he could not return to his Lodging … but went to the Earle of Arundel's house at Highgate, where they put him into … a damp bed that had not been layn-in … which gave him such a cold that in 2 or 3 days as I remember Mr Hobbes told me, he died of Suffocation.Aubrey has been criticised for his evident credulousness in this and other works; on the other hand, he knew Thomas Hobbes, Bacon's fellow-philosopher and friend.\n\nBeing unwittingly on his deathbed, the philosopher wrote his last letter to his absent host and friend Lord Arundel:My very good Lord,—I was likely to have had the fortune of Caius Plinius the elder, who lost his life by trying an experiment about the burning of Mount Vesuvius; for I was also desirous to try an experiment or two touching the conservation and induration of bodies. As for the experiment itself, it succeeded excellently well; but in the journey between London and Highgate, I was taken with such a fit of casting as I know not whether it were the Stone, or some surfeit or cold, or indeed a touch of them all three. But when I came to your Lordship's House, I was not able to go back, and therefore was forced to take up my lodging here, where your housekeeper is very careful and diligent about me, which I assure myself your Lordship will not only pardon towards him, but think the better of him for it. For indeed your Lordship's House was happy to me, and I kiss your noble hands for the welcome which I am sure you give me to it. I know how unfit it is for me to write with any other hand than mine own, but by my troth my fingers are so disjointed with sickness that I cannot steadily hold a pen.\n\nAnother account appears in a biography by William Rawley, Bacon's personal secretary and chaplain:He died on the ninth day of April in the year 1626, in the early morning of the day then celebrated for our Saviour's resurrection, in the sixty-sixth year of his age, at the Earl of Arundel's house in Highgate, near London, to which place he casually repaired about a week before; God so ordaining that he should die there of a gentle fever, accidentally accompanied with a great cold, whereby the defluxion of rheum fell so plentifully upon his breast, that he died by suffocation.\n\nHe was buried in St Michael's church in St Albans. At the news of his death, over 30 great minds collected together their eulogies of him, which were then later published in Latin. \nHe left personal assets of about £7,000 and lands that realised £6,000 when sold. His debts amounted to more than £23,000, equivalent to more than £3m at current value.\n\nFrancis Bacon's philosophy is displayed in the vast and varied writings he left, which might be divided into three great branches:\n\nBacon's seminal work \"Novum Organum\" was influential in the 1630s and 1650s among scholars, in particular Sir Thomas Browne, who in his encyclopedia \"Pseudodoxia Epidemica\" (1646–72) frequently adheres to a Baconian approach to his scientific enquiries. This book entails the basis of the Scientific Method as a means of observation and induction. During the Restoration, Bacon was commonly invoked as a guiding spirit of the Royal Society founded under Charles II in 1660. During the 18th-century French Enlightenment, Bacon's non-metaphysical approach to science became more influential than the dualism of his French contemporary Descartes, and was associated with criticism of the \"ancien regime\". In 1733 Voltaire introduced him to a French audience as the \"father\" of the scientific method, an understanding which had become widespread by the 1750s. In the 19th century his emphasis on induction was revived and developed by William Whewell, among others. He has been reputed as the \"Father of Experimental Philosophy\".\n\nHe also wrote a long treatise on Medicine, \"History of Life and Death\", with natural and experimental observations for the prolongation of life.\n\nOne of his biographers, the historian William Hepworth Dixon, states: \"Bacon's influence in the modern world is so great that every man who rides in a train, sends a telegram, follows a steam plough, sits in an easy chair, crosses the channel or the Atlantic, eats a good dinner, enjoys a beautiful garden, or undergoes a painless surgical operation, owes him something.\"\n\nIn 1902 Hugo von Hofmannsthal published a fictional letter, known as \"The Lord Chandos Letter\", addressed to Bacon and dated 1603, about a writer who is experiencing a crisis of language.\n\nBacon played a leading role in establishing the British colonies in North America, especially in Virginia, the Carolinas and Newfoundland in northeastern Canada. His government report on \"The Virginia Colony\" was submitted in 1609. In 1610 Bacon and his associates received a charter from the king to form \"the Tresurer and the Companye of Adventurers and planter of the Cittye of London and Bristoll for the Collonye or plantacon in Newfoundland\", and sent John Guy to found a colony there. Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States, wrote: \"Bacon, Locke and Newton. I consider them as the three greatest men that have ever lived, without any exception, and as having laid the foundation of those superstructures which have been raised in the Physical and Moral sciences\".\n\nIn 1910 Newfoundland issued a postage stamp to commemorate Bacon's role in establishing the colony. The stamp describes Bacon as \"the guiding spirit in Colonization Schemes in 1610\". Moreover, some scholars believe he was largely responsible for the drafting, in 1609 and 1612, of two charters of government for the Virginia Colony. William Hepworth Dixon considered that Bacon's name could be included in the list of Founders of the United States.\n\nAlthough few of his proposals for law reform were adopted during his lifetime, Bacon's legal legacy was considered by the magazine \"New Scientist\" in 1961 as having influenced the drafting of the Napoleonic Code as well as the law reforms introduced by 19th-century British Prime Minister Sir Robert Peel. The historian William Hepworth Dixon referred to the Napoleonic Code as \"the sole embodiment of Bacon's thought\", saying that Bacon's legal work \"has had more success abroad than it has found at home\", and that in France \"it has blossomed and come into fruit\".\n\nHarvey Wheeler attributed to Bacon, in \"Francis Bacon's Verulamiumthe Common Law Template of The Modern in English Science and Culture\", the creation of these distinguishing features of the modern common law system:\n\nAs late as the 18th century some juries still declared the law rather than the facts, but already before the end of the 17th century Sir Matthew Hale explained modern common law adjudication procedure and acknowledged Bacon as the inventor of the process of discovering unwritten laws from the evidences of their applications. The method combined empiricism and inductivism in a new way that was to imprint its signature on many of the distinctive features of modern English society. Paul H. Kocher writes that Bacon is considered by some jurists to be the father of modern Jurisprudence.\n\nBacon is commemorated with a statue in Gray's Inn, South Square in London where he received his legal training, and where he was elected Treasurer of the Inn in 1608. James McClellan, a political scientist from the University of Virginia, considered Bacon to have had \"a great following\" in the American colonies.\n\nMore recent scholarship on Bacon's jurisprudence has focused on his advocating torture as a legal recourse for the crown. Bacon himself was not a stranger to the torture chamber: in his various legal capacities in both Elizabeth I's and James I's reigns, Bacon was listed as a commissioner on five torture warrants. In 1613(?), in a letter addressed to King James I on the question of torture's place within English law, Bacon identifies the scope of torture as a means to further the investigation of threats to the state: \"In the cases of treasons, torture is used for discovery, and not for evidence.\" For Bacon, torture was not a punitive measure, an intended form of state repression, but instead offered a modus operandi for the government agent tasked with uncovering acts of treason.\n\nFrancis Bacon developed the idea that a classification of knowledge must be universal while handling all possible resources. In his progressive view, humanity would be better if the access to educational resources were provided to the public. Hence the need to organize it. His approach to learning reshaped the Western view of our knowledge theory from an individual to a social interest. <br>\nThe original classification proposed by Bacon organized all types of knowledge in three general groups: history, poetry, and philosophy. He did that based on his understanding of how we process information: Memory, Imagination, and Reason, respectively. His methodical approach to the categorization of knowledge goes hand in hand with his principles of scientific methods. <br>\nWe owe Bacon, not only his inductive approach to science, but his efforts to bring his meticulous and systematic vision to the organization of information which was the platform for further research and advancement for centuries after him.<br>\nBacon’s writings were the starting point for William Torrey Harris classification system for libraries in the United States by the second half of the 1800s.\n\nThe Baconian hypothesis of Shakespearean authorship, first proposed in the mid-19th century, contends that Francis Bacon wrote some or even all of the plays conventionally attributed to William Shakespeare.\n\nFrancis Bacon often gathered with the men at Gray's Inn to discuss politics and philosophy, and to try out various theatrical scenes that he admitted writing. Bacon's alleged connection to the Rosicrucians and the Freemasons has been widely discussed by authors and scholars in many books. However, others, including Daphne du Maurier in her biography of Bacon, have argued that there is no substantive evidence to support claims of involvement with the Rosicrucians. Frances Yates does not make the claim that Bacon was a Rosicrucian, but presents evidence that he was nevertheless involved in some of the more closed intellectual movements of his day. She argues that Bacon's movement for the advancement of learning was closely connected with the German Rosicrucian movement, while Bacon's \"New Atlantis\" portrays a land ruled by Rosicrucians. He apparently saw his own movement for the advancement of learning to be in conformity with Rosicrucian ideals.\nThe link between Bacon's work and the Rosicrucians' ideals which Yates allegedly found was the conformity of the purposes expressed by the Rosicrucian Manifestos and Bacon's plan of a \"Great Instauration\", for the two were calling for a reformation of both \"divine and human understanding\", as well as both had in view the purpose of mankind's return to the \"state before the Fall\".\n\nAnother major link is said to be the resemblance between Bacon's \"New Atlantis\" and the German Rosicrucian Johann Valentin Andreae's \"Description of the Republic of Christianopolis\" (1619). Andreae describes a utopic island in which Christian theosophy and applied science ruled, and in which the spiritual fulfilment and intellectual activity constituted the primary goals of each individual, the scientific pursuits being the highest intellectual callinglinked to the achievement of spiritual perfection. Andreae's island also depicts a great advancement in technology, with many industries separated in different zones which supplied the population's needswhich shows great resemblance to Bacon's scientific methods and purposes.\n\nWhile rejecting occult conspiracy theories surrounding Bacon and the claim Bacon personally identified as a Rosicrucian, intellectual historian Paolo Rossi has argued for an occult influence on Bacon's scientific and religious writing. He argues that Bacon was familiar with early modern alchemical texts and that Bacon's ideas about the application of science had roots in Renaissance magical ideas about science and magic facilitating humanity's domination of nature. Rossi further interprets Bacon's search for hidden meanings in myth and fables in such texts as \"The Wisdom of the Ancients\" as succeeding earlier occultist and Neoplatonic attempts to locate hidden wisdom in pre-Christian myths. As indicated by the title of his study, however, Rossi claims Bacon ultimately rejected the philosophical foundations of occultism as he came to develop a form of modern science.\n\nRossi's analysis and claims have been extended by Jason Josephson-Storm in his study, \"The Myth of Disenchantment\". Josephson-Storm also rejects conspiracy theories surrounding Bacon and does not make the claim that Bacon was an active Rosicrucian. However, he argues that Bacon's \"rejection\" of magic actually constituted an attempt to purify magic of Catholic, demonic, and esoteric influences and to establish magic as a field of study and application paralleling Bacon's vision of science. Furthermore, Josephson-Storm argues that Bacon drew on magical ideas when developing his experimental method. Josephson-Storm finds evidence that Bacon considered nature a living entity, populated by spirits, and argues Bacon's views on the human domination and application of nature actually depend on his spiritualism and personification of nature.\n\nThe Rosicrucian organisation AMORC claims that Bacon was the \"Imperator\" (leader) of the Rosicrucian Order in both England and the European continent, and would have directed it during his lifetime.\n\nBacon's influence can also be seen on a variety of religious and spiritual authors, and on groups that have utilised his writings in their own belief systems.\n\nSome of the more notable works by Bacon are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1271927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1271927", "title": "Gender equality", "text": "Gender equality\n\nGender equality, also known as sexual equality, is the state of equal ease of access to resources and opportunities regardless of gender, including economic participation and decision-making; and the state of valuing different behaviors, aspirations and needs equally, regardless of gender.\n\nGender equality is the goal, while gender neutrality and gender equity are practices and ways of thinking that help in achieving the goal. Gender parity, which is used to measure gender balance in a given situation, can aid in achieving gender equality but is not the goal in and of itself. Gender equality is more than equal representation, it is strongly tied to women's rights, and often requires policy changes. As of 2017, the global movement for gender equality has not incorporated the proposition of genders besides women and men, or gender identities outside of the gender binary.\n\nUNICEF says gender equality \"means that women and men, and girls and boys, enjoy the same rights, resources, opportunities and protections. It does not require that girls and boys, or women and men, be the same, or that they be treated exactly alike.\"\n\nOn a global scale, achieving gender equality also requires eliminating harmful practices against women and girls, including sex trafficking, femicide, wartime sexual violence, and other oppression tactics. UNFPA stated that, \"despite many international agreements affirming their human rights, women are still much more likely than men to be poor and illiterate. They have less access to property ownership, credit, training and employment. They are far less likely than men to be politically active and far more likely to be victims of domestic violence.\"\n\nAs of 2017, gender equality is the fifth of seventeen sustainable development goals of the United Nations. Gender inequality is measured annually by the United Nations Development Programme's Human Development Reports.\n\nChristine de Pizan, an early advocate for gender equality, states in her 1405 book \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" that the oppression of women is founded on irrational prejudice, pointing out numerous advances in society probably created by women.\n\nThe Shakers, an evangelical group, which practiced segregation of the sexes and strict celibacy, were early practitioners of gender equality. They branched off from a Quaker community in the north-west of England before emigrating to America in 1774. In America, the head of the Shakers' central ministry in 1788, Joseph Meacham, had a revelation that the sexes should be equal. He then brought Lucy Wright into the ministry as his female counterpart, and together they restructured the society to balance the rights of the sexes. Meacham and Wright established leadership teams where each elder, who dealt with the men's spiritual welfare, was partnered with an eldress, who did the same for women. Each deacon was partnered with a deaconess. Men had oversight of men; women had oversight of women. Women lived with women; men lived with men. In Shaker society, a woman did not have to be controlled or owned by any man. After Meacham's death in 1796, Wright became the head of the Shaker ministry until her death in 1821.\n\nShakers maintained the same pattern of gender-balanced leadership for more than 200 years. They also promoted equality by working together with other women's rights advocates. In 1859, Shaker Elder Frederick Evans stated their beliefs forcefully, writing that Shakers were \"the first to disenthrall woman from the condition of vassalage to which all other religious systems (more or less) consign her, and to secure to her those just and equal rights with man that, by her similarity to him in organization and faculties, both God and nature would seem to demand\". Evans and his counterpart, Eldress Antoinette Doolittle, joined women's rights advocates on speakers' platforms throughout the northeastern U.S. in the 1870s. A visitor to the Shakers wrote in 1875:\nThe Shakers were more than a radical religious sect on the fringes of American society; they put equality of the sexes into practice. It has been argued that they demonstrated that gender equality was achievable and how to achieve it.\n\nIn wider society, the movement towards gender equality began with the suffrage movement in Western cultures in the late-19th century, which sought to allow women to vote and hold elected office. This period also witnessed significant changes to women's property rights, particularly in relation to their marital status. (See for example, Married Women's Property Act 1882.)\n\nSince World War II, the women's liberation movement and feminism have created a general movement towards recognition of women's rights. The United Nations and other international agencies have adopted several conventions which promote gender equality. These conventions have not been uniformly adopted by all countries, and include:\n\nSuch legislation and affirmative action policies have been critical to bringing changes in societal attitudes. A 2015 Pew Research Center survey of citizens in 38 countries found that majorities in 37 of those 38 countries said that gender equality is at least \"somewhat important,\" and a global median of 65% believe it is \"very important\" that women have the same rights as men. Most occupations are now equally available to men and women, in many countries.\n\nSimilarly, men are increasingly working in occupations which in previous generations had been considered women's work, such as nursing, cleaning and child care. In domestic situations, the role of Parenting or child rearing is more commonly shared or not as widely considered to be an exclusively female role, so that women may be free to pursue a career after childbirth. For further information, see Shared earning/shared parenting marriage.\n\nAnother manifestation of the change in social attitudes is the non-automatic taking by a woman of her husband's surname on marriage.\n\nA highly contentious issue relating to gender equality is the role of women in religiously orientated societies. Some Christians or Muslims believe in Complementarianism, a view that holds that men and women have different but complementing roles. This view may be in opposition to the views and goals of gender equality.\n\nIn addition, there are also non-Western countries of low religiosity where the contention surrounding gender equality remains. In China, a cultural preference for a male child has resulted in a shortfall of women in the population. The feminist movement in Japan has made many strides which resulted in Rethe Gender Equality Bureau, but Japan still remains low in gender equality compared to other industrialized nations.\n\nThe notion of gender equality, and of its degree of achievement in a certain country, is very complex because there are countries that have a history of a high level of gender equality in certain areas of life but not in other areas. Indeed, there is a need for caution when categorizing countries by the level of gender equality that they have achieved. According to Mala Htun and Laurel Weldon \"gender policy is not one issue but many\" and:\nNot all beliefs relating to gender equality have been popularly adopted. For example, topfreedom, the right to be bare breasted in public, frequently applies only to males and has remained a marginal issue. Breastfeeding in public is now more commonly tolerated, especially in semi-private places such as restaurants.\n\nIt is the vision that men and women should be treated equally in social, economic and all other aspects of society, and to not be discriminated against on the basis of their gender. Gender equality is one of the objectives of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. World bodies have defined gender equality in terms of human rights, especially women's rights, and economic development.. The United Nation's Millennium Development Goals Report states that their goal is to \"achieve gender equality and the empowerment of women\".Despite economic struggles in developing countries, the United Nations is still trying to promote gender equality, as well as help create a sustainable living environment is all its nations.Their goals also include giving women who work certain full-time jobs equal pay to the men with the same job.\n\nThere has been criticism from some feminists towards the political discourse and policies employed in order to achieve the above items of \"progress\" in gender equality, with critics arguing that these gender equality strategies are superficial, in that they do not seek to challenge social structures of male domination, and only aim at improving the situation of women within the societal framework of subordination of women to men, and that official public policies (such as state policies or international bodies policies) are questionable, as they are applied in a patriarchal context, and are directly or indirectly controlled by agents of a system which is for the most part male. One of the criticisms of the gender equality policies, in particular, those of the European Union, is that they disproportionately focus on policies integrating women in public life, but do not seek to genuinely address the deep private sphere oppression.\n\nA further criticism is that a focus on the situation of women in non-Western countries, while often ignoring the issues that exist in the West, is a form of imperialism and of reinforcing Western moral superiority; and a way of \"othering\" of domestic violence, by presenting it as something specific to outsiders - the \"violent others\" - and not to the allegedly progressive Western cultures. These critics point out that women in Western countries often face similar problems, such as domestic violence and rape, as in other parts of the world. They also cite the fact that women faced de jure legal discrimination until just a few decades ago; for instance, in some Western countries such as Switzerland, Greece, Spain, and France, women obtained equal rights in family law in the 1980s. Another criticism is that there is a selective public discourse with regard to different types of oppression of women, with some forms of violence such as honor killings (most common in certain geographic regions such as parts of Asia and North Africa) being frequently the object of public debate, while other forms of violence, such as the lenient punishment for crimes of passion across Latin America, do not receive the same attention in the West. It is also argued that the criticism of particular laws of many developing countries ignores the influence of colonialism on those legal systems. There has been controversy surrounding the concepts of Westernization and Europeanisation, due to their reminder of past colonialism, and also due to the fact that some Western countries, such as Switzerland, have been themselves been very slow to give women legal rights.\n\nThere has been criticism that international law, international courts, and universal gender neutral concepts of human rights are at best silent on many of the issues important to women and at worst male centered; considering the male person to be the default. Excessive gender neutrality can worsen the situation of women, because the law \"assumes\" women are in the same position as men, ignoring the biological fact that in the process of reproduction and pregnancy there is no 'equality', and that apart from physical differences there are socially constructed limitations which assign a socially and culturally inferior position to women - a situation which requires a specific approach to women's rights, not merely a gender neutral one. In a 1975 interview, Simone de Beauvoir talked about the negative reactions towards women's rights from the left that was supposed to be progressive and support social change, and also expressed skepticism about mainstream international organizations.\n\nIn 2010, the European Union opened the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) in Vilnius, Lithuania to promote gender equality and to fight sex discrimination. In 2015 the EU published the Gender Action Plan 2016–2020.\n\nGender equality is part of the national curriculum in Great Britain and many other European countries. By presidential decree, the Republic of Kazakhstan created a Strategy for Gender Equality 2006–2016 to chart the subsequent decade of gender equality efforts. Personal, Social and Health Education, religious studies and Language acquisition curricula tend to address gender equality issues as a very serious topic for discussion and analysis of its effect in society.\n\nA large and growing body of research has shown how gender inequality undermines health and development. To overcome gender inequality the United Nations Population Fund states that, \"Women's empowerment and gender equality requires strategic interventions at all levels of programming and policy-making. These levels include reproductive health, economic empowerment, educational empowerment and political empowerment.\"\n\nUNFPA says that \"research has also demonstrated how working with men and boys as well as women and girls to promote gender equality contributes to achieving health and development outcomes.\"\n\nSocial constructs of gender (that is, cultural ideals of socially acceptable masculinity and femininity) often have a negative effect on health. The World Health Organization cites the example of women not being allowed to travel alone outside the home (to go to the hospital), and women being prevented by cultural norms to ask their husbands to use a condom, in cultures which simultaneously encourage male promiscuity, as social norms that harm women's health. Teenage boys suffering accidents due to social expectations of impressing their peers through risk taking, and men dying at much higher rate from lung cancer due to smoking, in cultures which link smoking to masculinity, are cited by the WHO as examples of gender norms negatively affecting men's health. The World Health Organization has also stated that there is a strong connection between gender socialization and transmission and lack of adequate management of HIV/AIDS.\n\nViolence against women is a technical term used to collectively refer to violent acts that are primarily or exclusively committed against women. This type of violence is gender-based, meaning that the acts of violence are committed against women expressly \"because\" they are women, or as a result of patriarchal gender constructs. Violence and mistreatment of women in marriage has come to international attention during the past decades. This includes both violence committed inside marriage (domestic violence) as well as violence related to marriage customs and traditions (such as dowry, bride price, forced marriage and child marriage).\n\nAccording to some theories, violence against women is often caused by the acceptance of violence by various cultural groups as a means of conflict resolution within intimate relationships. Studies on Intimate partner violence victimization among ethnic minorities in the United Studies have consistently revealed that immigrants are a high-risk group for intimate violence.\n\nIn countries where gang murders, armed kidnappings, civil unrest, and other similar acts are rare, the vast majority of murdered women are killed by partners/ex-partners. By contrast, in countries with a high level of organized criminal activity and gang violence, murders of women are more likely to occur in a public sphere, often in a general climate of indifference and impunity. In addition, many countries do not have adequate comprehensive data collection on such murders, aggravating the problem.\n\nIn some parts of the world, various forms of violence against women are tolerated and accepted as parts of everyday life.\n\nIn most countries, it is only in more recent decades that domestic violence against women has received significant legal attention. The Istanbul Convention acknowledges the long tradition of European countries of ignoring this form of violence.\n\nIn some cultures, acts of violence against women are seen as crimes against the male 'owners' of the woman, such as husband, father or male relatives, rather the woman herself. This leads to practices where men inflict violence upon women in order to get revenge on male members of the women's family. Such practices include payback rape, a form of rape specific to certain cultures, particularly the Pacific Islands, which consists of the rape of a female, usually by a group of several males, as revenge for acts committed by members of her family, such as her father or brothers, with the rape being meant to humiliate the father or brothers, as punishment for their prior behavior towards the perpetrators.\n\nRichard A. Posner writes that \"Traditionally, rape was the offense of depriving a father or husband of a valuable asset — his wife's chastity or his daughter's virginity\". Historically, rape was seen in many cultures (and is still seen today in some societies) as a crime against the honor of the family, rather than against the self-determination of the woman. As a result, victims of rape may face violence, in extreme cases even honor killings, at the hands of their family members. Catharine MacKinnon argues that in male dominated societies, sexual intercourse is imposed on women in a coercive and unequal way, creating a continuum of victimization, where women have few positive sexual experiences. Socialization within rigid gender constructs often creates an environment where sexual violence is common. One of the challenges of dealing with sexual violence is that in many societies women are perceived as being readily available for sex, and men are seen as entitled to their bodies, until and unless women object.\n\nThe importance of women having the right and possibility to have control over their body, reproduction decisions, and sexuality, and the need for gender equality in order to achieve these goals are recognized as crucial by the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing and the UN International Conference on Population and Development Program of Action. The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that promotion of gender equality is crucial in the fight against HIV/AIDS.\n\nMaternal mortality is a major problem in many parts of the world. UNFPA states that countries have an obligation to protect women's right to health, but many countries do not do that. Maternal mortality is considered today not just an issue of development but also an issue of human rights.\n\nThe right to reproductive and sexual autonomy is denied to women in many parts of the world, through practices such as forced sterilization, forced/coerced sexual partnering (e.g. forced marriage, child marriage), criminalization of consensual sexual acts (such as sex outside marriage), lack of criminalization of marital rape, violence in regard to the choice of partner (honor killings as punishment for 'inappropriate' relations). The sexual health of women is often poor in societies where a woman's right to control her sexuality is not recognized.\n\nAdolescent girls have the highest risk of sexual coercion, sexual ill health, and negative reproductive outcomes. The risks they face are higher than those of boys and men; this increased risk is partly due to gender inequity (different socialization of boys and girls, gender based violence, child marriage) and partly due to biological factors.\n\nFamily planning is the practice of freely deciding the number of children one has and the intervals between their births, particularly by means of contraception or voluntary sterilization. Abortion is the induced termination of pregnancy. Abortion laws vary significantly by country. The availability of contraception, sterilization and abortion is dependent on laws, as well as social, cultural and religious norms. Some countries have liberal laws regarding these issues, but in practice it is very difficult to access such services due to doctors, pharmacists and other social and medical workers being conscientious objectors. Family planning is particularly important from a women's rights perspective, as having very many pregnancies, especially in areas where malnutrition is present, can seriously endanger women's health. UNFA writes that \"Family planning is central to gender equality and women’s empowerment, and it is a key factor in reducing poverty\".\n\nFamily planning is often opposed by governments who have strong natalist policies. During the 20th century, such examples have included the aggressive natalist policies from communist Romania and communist Albania. State mandated forced marriage was also practiced by some authoritarian governments as a way to meet population targets: the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia systematically forced people into marriages, in order to increase the population and continue the revolution. By contrast, the one child policy of China (1979–2015) included punishments for families with more than one child and forced abortions. Some governments have sought to prevent certain ethnic or social groups from reproduction. Such policies were carried out against ethnic minorities in Europe and North America in the 20th century, and more recently in Latin America against the Indigenous population in the 1990s; in Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990 to 2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of a sterilization program put in place by his administration targeting indigenous people (mainly the Quechuas and the Aymaras).\n\nHuman rights organizations have expressed concern about the legal impunity of perpetrators of crimes against women, with such crimes being often ignored by authorities. This is especially the case with murders of women in Latin America. In particular, there is impunity in regard to domestic violence.\n\nWomen are often, in law or in practice, unable to access legal institutions. UN Women has said that: \"Too often, justice institutions, including the police and the courts, deny women justice\". Often, women are denied legal recourse because the state institutions themselves are structured and operate in ways incompatible with genuine justice for women who experience violence.\n\n\"Harmful traditional practices\" refer to forms of violence which are committed in certain communities often enough to become cultural practice, and accepted for that reason. Young women are the main victims of such acts, although men can be affected. They occur in an environment where women and girls have unequal rights and opportunities.\nThese practices include, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights:\n\nSon preference refers to a cultural preference for sons over daughters, and manifests itself through practices such as sex selective abortion; female infanticide; or abandonment, neglect or abuse of girl-children.\n\nAbuses regarding nutrition are taboos in regard to certain foods, which result in poor nutrition of women, and may endanger their health, especially if pregnant.\n\nThe caste system in India which leads to untouchability (the practice of ostracizing a group by segregating them from the mainstream society) often interacts with gender discrimination, leading to a double discrimination faced by Dalit women. In a 2014 survey, 27% of Indians admitted to practicing untouchability.\n\nTraditional customs regarding birth sometimes endanger the mothers. Births in parts of Africa are often attended by traditional birth attendants (TBAs), who sometimes perform rituals that are dangerous to the health of the mother. In many societies, a difficult labour is believed to be a divine punishment for marital infidelity, and such women face abuse and are pressured to \"confess\" to the infidelity.\n\nTribal traditions can be harmful to males; for instance, the Satere-Mawe tribe use bullet ants as an initiation rite. Men must wear gloves with hundreds of bullet ants woven in for ten minutes: the ants' stings cause severe pain and paralysis. This experience must be completed twenty times for boys to be considered \"warriors\".\n\nOther harmful traditional practices include marriage by abduction, ritualized sexual slavery (Devadasi, Trokosi), breast ironing and widow inheritance.\n\nUNFPA and UNICEF regard the practice of female genital mutilation as \"a manifestation of deeply entrenched gender inequality. It persists for many reasons. In some societies, for example, it is considered a rite of passage. In others, it is seen as a prerequisite for marriage. In some communities – whether Christian, Jewish, Muslim – the practice may even be attributed to religious beliefs.\" \n\nAn estimated 125 million women and girls living today have undergone FGM in the 29 countries where data exist. Of these, about half live in Egypt and Ethiopia. It is most commonly carried out on girls between infancy and 15 years old.\n\nEarly marriage, child marriage or forced marriage is prevalent in parts of Asia and Africa. The majority of victims seeking advice are female and aged between 18 and 23. Such marriages can have harmful effects on a girl's education and development, and may expose girls to social isolation or abuse.\n\nThe 2013 UN Resolution on Child, Early and Forced Marriage calls for an end to the practice, and states that \"Recognizing that child, early and forced marriage is a harmful practice that violates abuses, or impairs human rights and is linked to and perpetuates other harmful practices and human rights violations, that these violations have a disproportionately negative impact on women and girls [...]\". Despite a near-universal commitment by governments to end child marriage, \"one in three girls in developing countries (excluding China) will probably be married before they are 18.\" UNFPA states that, \"over 67 million women 20–24 year old in 2010 had been married as girls. Half were in Asia, one-fifth in Africa. In the next decade 14.2 million girls under 18 will be married every year; this translates into 39,000 girls married each day. This will rise to an average of 15.1 million girls a year, starting in 2021 until 2030, if present trends continue.\"\n\nBride price (also called bridewealth or bride token) is money, property, or other form of wealth paid by a groom or his family to the parents of the bride. This custom often leads to women having reduced ability to control their fertility. For instance, in northern Ghana, the payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control face threats, violence and reprisals. The custom of bride price has been criticized as contributing to the mistreatment of women in marriage, and preventing them from leaving abusive marriages. UN Women recommended its abolition, and stated that: \"Legislation should [...] State that divorce shall not be contingent upon the return of bride price but such provisions shall not be interpreted to limit women’s right to divorce; State that a perpetrator of domestic violence, including marital rape, cannot use the fact that he paid bride price as a defence to a domestic violence charge.\"\n\nThe custom of bride price can also curtail the free movement of women: if a wife wants to leave her husband, he may demand back the bride price that he had paid to the woman's family; and the woman's family often cannot or does not want to pay it back, making it difficult for women to move out of violent husbands' homes.\n\nPromoting gender equality is seen as an encouragement to greater economic prosperity. Female economic activity is a common measure of gender equality in an economy.\n\nGender discrimination often results in women obtaining low-wage jobs and being disproportionately affected by poverty, discrimination and exploitation. A growing body of research documents what works to economically empower women, from providing access to formal financial services to training on agricultural and business management practices, though more research is needed across a variety of contexts to confirm the effectiveness of these interventions.\n\nGender biases also exist in product and service provision. The term \"Women's Tax\", also known as \"Pink Tax\", refers to gendered pricing in which products or services marketed to women are more expensive than similar products marketed to men. Gender-based price discrimination involves companies selling almost identical units of the same product or service at comparatively different prices, as determined by the target market. Studies have found that women pay about $1,400 a year more than men due to gendered discriminatory pricing. Although the \"pink tax\" of different goods and services is not uniform, overall women pay more for commodities that result in visual evidence of feminine body image.\n\nSince the 1950s, social scientists as well as feminists have increasingly criticized gendered arrangements of work and care and the male breadwinner role. Policies are increasingly targeting men as fathers as a tool of changing gender relations.\nShared earning/shared parenting marriage, that is, a relationship where the partners collaborate at sharing their responsibilities inside and outside of the home, is often encouraged in Western countries.\n\nWestern countries with a strong emphasis on women fulfilling the role of homemakers, rather than a professional role, include parts of German speaking Europe (i.e. parts of Germany, Austria and Switzerland); as well as the Netherlands and Ireland. In the computer technology world of Silicon Valley in the United States, \"New York Times\" reporter Nellie Bowles has covered harassment and bias against women as well as a backlash against female equality.\n\nA key issue towards insuring gender equality in the workplace is the respecting of maternity rights and reproductive rights of women. Different countries have different rules regarding maternity leave, paternity leave and parental leave. Another important issue is ensuring that employed women are not \"de jure\" or \"de facto\" prevented from having a child. In some countries, employers ask women to sign formal or informal documents stipulating that they will not get pregnant or face legal punishment. Women often face severe violations of their reproductive rights at the hands of their employers; and the International Labour Organization classifies forced abortion coerced by the employer as labour exploitation. Other abuses include routine virginity tests of unmarried employed women.\n\nSee also: Effect of parental leave policies on gender equality\n\nThe degree to which women can participate (in law and in practice) in public life varies by culture and socioeconomic characteristics. Seclusion of women within the home was a common practice among the upper classes of many societies, and this still remains the case today in some societies. Before the 20th century it was also common in parts of Southern Europe, such as much of Spain.\n\nWomen's freedom of movement continues to be legally restricted in some parts of the world. This restriction is often due to marriage laws. In some countries, women must legally be accompanied by their male guardians (such as the husband or male relative) when they leave home.\n\nThe Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) states at Article 15 (4) that:\nIn addition to laws, women's freedom of movement is also restricted by social and religious norms. Restrictions on freedom of movement also exist due to traditional practices such as baad, swara, or vani.\n\nIn many parts of the world, girls' access to education is very restricted. In developing parts of the world women are often denied opportunities for education as girls and women face many obstacles. These include: early and forced marriages; early pregnancy; prejudice based on gender stereotypes at home, at school and in the community; violence on the way to school, or in and around schools; long distances to schools; vulnerability to the HIV epidemic; school fees, which often lead to parents sending only their sons to school; lack of gender sensitive approaches and materials in classrooms. According to OHCHR, there have been multiple attacks on schools worldwide during the period 2009–2014 with \"a number of these attacks being specifically directed at girls, parents and teachers advocating for gender equality in education\". The United Nations Population Fund says:\n\nWomen are underrepresented in most countries' National Parliaments. The 2011 UN General Assembly resolution on women’s political participation called for female participation in politics, and expressed concern about the fact that \"women in every part of the world continue to be largely marginalized from the political sphere\". Only 22 percent of parliamentarians globally are women and therefore, men continue to occupy most positions of political and legal authority. As of November 2014, women accounted for 28% of members of the single or lower houses of parliaments in the European Union member states.\n\nIn some Western countries women have only recently obtained the right to vote.\n\nIn 2015, 61.3% of Rwanda's Lower House of Parliament were women, the highest proportion anywhere in the world, but worldwide that was one of only two such bodies where women were in the majority, the other being Bolivia's Lower House of Parliament. (See also Gender equality in Rwanda).\n\nEqual rights for women in marriage, divorce, and property/land ownership and inheritance are essential for gender equality. The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) has called for the end of discriminatory family laws. In 2013, UN Women stated that \"While at least 115 countries recognize equal land rights for women and men, effective implementation remains a major challenge\".\n\nThe legal and social treatment of married women has been often discussed as a political issue from the 19th century onwards. Until the 1970s, legal subordination of married women was common across European countries, through marriage laws giving legal authority to the husband, as well as through marriage bars. In 1978, the Council of Europe passed the \"Resolution (78) 37 on equality of spouses in civil law\". Switzerland was one of the last countries in Europe to establish gender equality in marriage, in this country married women's rights were severely restricted until 1988, when legal reforms providing for gender equality in marriage, abolishing the legal authority of the husband, come into force (these reforms had been approved in 1985 by voters in a referendum, who narrowly voted in favor with 54.7% of voters approving). In the Netherlands, it was only in 1984 that full legal equality between husband and wife was achieved: prior to 1984 the law stipulated that the husband's opinion prevailed over the wife's regarding issues such as decisions on children's education and the domicile of the family.\n\nIn the United States, a wife's legal subordination to her husband was fully ended by the case of \"Kirchberg v. Feenstra\", , a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held a Louisiana Head and Master law, which gave sole control of marital property to the husband, unconstitutional.\n\nThere have been and sometimes continue to be unequal treatment of married women in various aspects of everyday life. For example, in Australia, until 1983 a husband had to authorize an application for an Australian passport for a married woman. Other practices have included, and in many countries continue to include, a requirement for a husband's consent for an application for bank loans and credit cards by a married woman, as well as restrictions on the wife's reproductive rights, such as a requirement that the husband consents to the wife's acquiring contraception or having an abortion. In some places, although the law itself no longer requires the consent of the husband for various actions taken by the wife, the practice continues \"de facto\", with the authorization of the husband being asked in practice.\n\nAlthough dowry is today mainly associated with South Asia, the practice has been common until the mid-20th century in parts of Southeast Europe.\n\nLaws regulating marriage and divorce continue to discriminate against women in many countries. In Iraq husbands have a legal right to \"punish\" their wives, with paragraph 41 of the criminal code stating that there is no crime if an act is committed while exercising a legal right. In the 1990s and the 21st century there has been progress in many countries in Africa: for instance in Namibia the marital power of the husband was abolished in 1996 by the \"Married Persons Equality Act\"; in Botswana it was abolished in 2004 by the \"Abolition of Marital Power Act\"; and in Lesotho it was abolished in 2006 by the \"Married Persons Equality Act\". Violence against a wife continues to be seen as legally acceptable in some countries; for instance in 2010, the United Arab Emirates Supreme Court ruled that a man has the right to physically discipline his wife and children as long as he does not leave physical marks. The criminalization of adultery has been criticized as being a prohibition, which, in law or in practice, is used primarily against women; and incites violence against women (crimes of passion, honor killings).\n\nTwo recent movements in countries with large Kurdish populations have implemented political gender equality. One has been the Kurdish movement in southeastern Turkey led by the Democratic Regions Party (DBP) and the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), from 2006 or before.\nThe mayorships of 2 metropolitan areas and 97 towns are led jointly by a man and a woman, both called co-mayors. Party offices are also led by a man and a woman. Local councils were formed, which also had to be co-presided over by a man and a woman together. However, in November 2016 the Turkish government cracked down on the HDP, jailing ten of its members of Parliament, including the party's male and female co-leaders.\n\nA movement in northern Syria, also Kurdish, has been led by the Democratic Union Party (PYD). In northern Syria all villages, towns and cities governed by the PYD were co-governed by a man and a woman. Local councils were formed where each sex had to have 40% representation, and minorities also had to be represented.\n\nGender stereotypes arise from the socially approved roles of women and men in the private or public sphere, at home or in the workplace. In the household, women are typically seen as mother figures, which usually places them into a typical classification of being \"supportive\" or \"nurturing\". Women are expected to want to take on the role of a mother and take on primary responsibility for household needs. Their male counterparts are seen as being \"assertive\" or \"ambitious\" as men are usually seen in the workplace or as the primary breadwinner for his family. Due to these views and expectations, women often face discrimination in the public sphere, such as the workplace.\n\nA gender role is a set of societal norms dictating the types of behaviors which are generally considered acceptable, appropriate, or desirable for people based on their sex. Gender roles are usually centered on conceptions of femininity and masculinity, although there are exceptions and variations.\n\nThe way women are represented in the media has been criticized as perpetuating negative gender stereotypes. The exploitation of women in mass media refers to the criticisms that are levied against the use or objectification of women in the mass media, when such use or portrayal aims at increasing the appeal of media or a product, to the detriment of, or without regard to, the interests of the women portrayed, or women in general. Concerns include the fact that all forms of media have the power to shape the population's perceptions and portray images of unrealistic stereotypical perceptions by portraying women either as submissive housewives or as sex objects. The media emphasizes traditional domestic or sexual roles that normalize violence against women. The vast array of studies that have been conducted on the issue of the portrayal of women in the media have shown that women are often portrayed as irrational, fragile, not intelligent, submissive and\nsubservient to men. Research has shown that stereotyped images such as these have been shown to negatively impact on the mental health of many female viewers who feel bound by these roles, causing amongst other problems, self-esteem issues, depression and anxiety.\n\nAccording to a study, the way women are often portrayed by the media can lead to: \"Women of average or normal appearance feeling inadequate or less beautiful in comparison to the overwhelming use of extraordinarily attractive women\"; \"Increase in the likelihood and acceptance of sexual violence\"; \"Unrealistic expectations by men of how women should look or behave\"; \"Psychological disorders such as body dysmorphic disorder, anorexia, bulimia and so on\"; \"The importance of physical appearance is emphasized and reinforced early in most girls' development.\" Studies have found that nearly half of females ages 6–8 have stated they want to be slimmer. (Striegel-Moore & Franko, 2002)\".\n\nA few numbers on women's representation in the media:\n\n\nWhile in many countries, the problem lies in the lack of adequate legislation, in others the principal problem is not as much the lack of a legal framework, but the fact is that most women do not know their legal rights. This is especially the case as many of the laws dealing with women's rights are of recent date. This lack of knowledge enables to abusers to lead the victims (explicitly or implicitly) to believe that their abuse is within their rights. This may apply to a wide range of abuses, ranging from domestic violence to employment discrimination. The United Nations Development Programme states that, in order to advance gender justice, \"Women must know their rights and be able to access legal systems\".\n\nThe 1993 UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women states at Art. 4 (d) [...] \"States should also inform women of their rights in seeking redress through such mechanisms\". Enacting protective legislation against violence has little effect, if women do not know how to use it: for example a study of Bedouin women in Israel found that 60% did not know what a restraining order was; or if they don't know what acts are illegal: a report by Amnesty International showed in Hungary, in a public opinion poll of nearly 1,200 people in 2006, a total of 62% did not know that marital rape was an illegal (it was outlawed in 1997) and therefore the crime was rarely reported. Ensuring women have a minim understanding of health issues is also important: lack of access to reliable medical information and available medical procedures to which they are entitled hurts women's health.\n\nGender mainstreaming is described as the public policy of assessing the different implications for women and men of any planned policy action, including legislation and programmes, in all areas and levels, with the aim of achieving gender equality. The concept of gender mainstreaming was first proposed at the 1985 Third World Conference on Women in Nairobi, Kenya. The idea has been developed in the United Nations development community. Gender mainstreaming \"involves ensuring that gender perspectives and attention to the goal of gender equality are central to all activities\".\n\nAccording to the Council of Europe definition: \"Gender mainstreaming is the (re)organization, improvement, development and evaluation of policy processes, so that a gender equality perspective is incorporated in all policies at all levels and at all stages, by the actors normally involved in policy-making.\"\n\nAn integrated gender mainstreaming approach is \"the attempt to form alliances and common platforms that bring together the power of faith and gender-equality aspirations to advance human rights.\" For example, \"in Azerbaijan, UNFPA conducted a study on gender equality by comparing the text of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women with some widely recognized Islamic references and resources. The results reflect the parallels between the Convention and many tenets of Islamic scripture and practice. The study showcased specific issues, including VAW, child marriage, respect for the dignity of women, and equality in the economic and political participation of women. The study was later used to produce training materials geared towards sensitizing religious leaders.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12250", "title": "Georg Henrik von Wright", "text": "Georg Henrik von Wright\n\nGeorg Henrik von Wright (; 14 June 1916 – 16 June 2003) was a Finnish philosopher, who succeeded Ludwig Wittgenstein as professor at the University of Cambridge. He published in English, Finnish, German, and Swedish, having belonged to the Swedish-speaking minority of Finland. Von Wright was of both Finnish and 17th-century Scottish ancestry.\n\nVon Wright's writings come under two broad categories. The first is analytic philosophy and philosophical logic in the Anglo-American vein. His 1951 books, \"An Essay in Modal Logic\" and \"Deontic Logic\", were landmarks in the postwar rise of formal modal logic and its deontic version. He was an authority on Wittgenstein, editing his later works. He was the leading figure in the Finnish philosophy of his time, specializing in philosophical logic, philosophical analysis, philosophy of action, philosophy of language, philosophy of mind, and the close study of Charles Sanders Peirce.\n\nThe other vein in von Wright's writings is moralist and pessimist. During the last twenty years of his life, under the influence of Oswald Spengler, Jürgen Habermas and the Frankfurt School's reflections about modern Rationality, he wrote prolifically. His best known article from this period is entitled \"The Myth of Progress\", and it questions whether our apparent material and technological progress can really be considered \"progress\".\n\nIn the last year of his life, among his other honorary degrees, he held an honorary degree at the University of Bergen. He also was awarded Swedish Academy Finland Prize in 1968.\n\n\nVon Wright edited posthumous publications by Wittgenstein, which were published by Blackwell (unless otherwise stated):\n\nVon Wright also edited extracts from the diary of David Pinsent, also published by Blackwell:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38802918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38802918", "title": "Georgi Plekhanov", "text": "Georgi Plekhanov\n\nGeorgi Valentinovich Plekhanov (; ; 29 November 1856 – 30 May 1918) was a Russian revolutionary and a Marxist theoretician. He was a founder of the social-democratic movement in Russia and was one of the first Russians to identify himself as \"Marxist.\" Facing political persecution, Plekhanov emigrated to Switzerland in 1880, where he continued in his political activity attempting to overthrow the Tsarist regime in Russia.\n\nAlthough he supported the Bolshevik faction at the 2nd Congress of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party in 1903, Plekhanov soon rejected the idea of democratic centralism, and became one of Lenin and Trotsky's principal antagonists in the 1905 St. Petersburg Soviet.\n\nDuring World War I Plekhanov rallied to the cause of the Entente powers against Germany and he returned home to Russia following the 1917 February Revolution. Plekhanov was an opponent of the Soviet state which came to power in the autumn of 1917. He died the following year. Despite his vigorous and outspoken opposition to Lenin's political party in 1917, Plekhanov was held in high esteem by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union following his death as a founding father of Russian Marxism and a philosophical thinker.\n\nGeorgi Valentinovich Plekhanov was born 29 November 1856 (old style) in the Russian village of Gudalovka in Tambov Governorate, one of twelve siblings. Georgi's father, Valentin Plekhanov, from a Tatar family, was a member of the hereditary nobility. Valentin was a member of the lower stratum of the Russian nobility, the possessor of about 270 acres of land and approximately 50 serfs. Georgi's mother, Maria Feodorovna, was a distant relative of the famous literary critic Vissarion Belinsky and was married to Valentin in 1855, following the death of his first wife. Georgi was the first-born of the couple's five children.\n\nGeorgi's formal education began in 1866, when the 10-year-old was entered into the Konstantinov Military Academy in Voronezh. He remained a student at the military academy, where he was well taught by his teachers and well liked by his classmates, until 1873. His mother later attributed her son's life as a revolutionary to liberal ideas to which he was exposed in the course of his education at the school.\n\nIn 1871, Valentine Plekhanov gave up his effort to maintain his family as a small-scale landlord and accepted a job as an administrative official in a newly formed zemstvo. He died two years later but his body has been on display in the center of the commons ever since.\n\nAfter the death of his father, Plekhanov resigned at the military academy and enrolled at the St. Petersburg Metallurgical Institute. There in 1875 he was introduced to a young revolutionary intellectual named Pavel Axelrod, who later recalled that Plekhanov instantly made a favorable impression upon him:\n\"He spoke well in a business-like fashion, simply and yet in a literary way. One perceived in him a love for knowledge, a habit of reading, thinking, working. He dreamed at the time of going abroad to complete his training in chemistry. This plan didn't please me... This is a luxury! I said to the young man. If you take so long to complete your studies in chemistry, when will you begin to work for the revolution?\"\n\nUnder Axelrod's influence, Plekhanov was drawn into the populist movement as an activist in the primary revolutionary organization of the day, \"Zemlia i Volia\" (Land and Liberty).\n\nPlekhanov was one of the organizers of the first political demonstrations in Russia. On 6 December 1876, Plekhanov delivered a fiery speech during a demonstration in front of the Kazan Cathedral in St.Petersburg in which he indicted the Tsarist autocracy and defended the ideas of Chernyshevsky. Thereafter, Plekhanov was forced by the fear of retribution to lead an underground life. He was arrested twice for his political activities, in 1877 and again in 1878, but released both times after only a short time in jail.\n\nAlthough originally a Populist, after emigrating to Western Europe he established connections with the Social-Democratic movement of western Europe and began to study the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. When the question of terrorism became a matter of heated debate in the populist movement in 1879, Plekhanov cast his lot decisively with the opponents of political assassination. In the words of historian Leopold Haimson, Plekhanov \"denounced terrorism as a rash and impetuous movement, which would drain the energy of the revolutionists and provoke a government repression so severe as to make any agitation among the masses impossible.\" Plekhanov was so certain of the correctness of his views that he determined to leave the revolutionary movement altogether rather than to compromise on the matter.\n\nPlekhanov founded a tiny populist splinter group called \"Chërnyi Peredel\" (Black Repartition), which attempted to wage a battle of ideas against the new organization of the growing terrorist movement, \"Narodnaya Volya\" (the People's Will). Plekhanov was manifestly unsuccessful in this effort. \n\nIn 1879 he married Rozaliia Bograd-Plekhanova, a medical student who had been active in the Populist movement. She accompanied him in 1880 when he left Russia for Switzerland on what was originally intended as a brief stay. It would be 37 years before he was able to return again to his native land.\n\nDuring the next three years, Plekhanov read extensively on political economy, gradually coming to question his faith in the revolutionary potential of the traditional village commune. During these years from 1882 through 1883, Plekhanov became a convinced Marxist and in the late 1880s he established personal contact with Frederick Engels.\n\nPlekhanov also became a committed centralist in this period, coming to believe in the efficacy of political struggle. He decided that the struggle for a socialist future first required the development of capitalism in agrarian Russia.\n\nIn September 1883 Plekhanov joined with his old friend Axelrod, Lev Deutsch, Vasily Ignatov, and Vera Zasulich in establishing the first Russian-language Marxist political organization, the \"Gruppa Osvobozhdenie Truda\" or the \"Emancipation of Labor Group.\" Also in the fall of 1883, Plekhanov authored the social program of the Emancipation of Labor Group. Based in Geneva, the Emancipation of Labor Group attempted to popularize the economic and historical ideas of Karl Marx, in which they met with some success, attracting such eminent intellectuals as Peter Struve, Vladimir Ulianov (Lenin), Iulii Martov, and Alexander Potresov to the organization.\n\nIt was during this period that Plekhanov began to write and publish the first of his important political works, including the pamphlet \"Socialism and Political Struggle\" (1883) and the full-length book \"Our Differences\" (1885). These works first expressed the Marxist position for a Russian audience and delineated the points of departure of the Marxists from the Populist movement. Lenin called the former, the \"first \"profession de foi\" [profession of faith]of Russian socialism.\" Plekhanov famously noted, \"... without revolutionary theory there is no revolutionary movement in the true sense of the word.\" In the latter book, Plekhanov emphasized that capitalism had begun to establish itself in Russia, primarily in the textile industry but also in agriculture, and that a working class was beginning to emerge in peasant Russia. It was this expanding working class that would ultimately and inevitably bring about socialist change in Russia, Plekhanov argued.\n\nIn January 1895, Plekhanov published his most famous work, \"The Development of the Monist View of History\". The book passed the censors of the Russian government and was legally published in Russia. Plekhanov wrote the book under the pseudonym Beltov and admitted to the use of the \"purposely clumsy\" name for the book in order to deceive the Russian censors. Plekhanov's book became a very popular defense of the materialistic conception of history. Indeed, V. I. Lenin would later comment that Plekhanov's book \"helped educate a whole generation of Russian Marxists.\" Frederick Engels commented in a 30 January 1895 letter to Vera Zasulich that Plekhanov's book had been published at a most opportune time. Tsar Nicholas II had just released a statement on 29 January (or 17 January under the old Russian calendar) that announced that it was fruitless for the \"Zemstvos\", locally elected district councils, to agitate for any more democratic reforms in the Russian government. Nicholas II had decided to return Russia to the absolute Tsarist autocracy of his father, Alexander III. The elected \"Zemstvos\", which formed a local government in the European sectors of the Russian Empire, had been initiated by Nicholas' grandfather, Tsar Alexander II in 1864. Under Nicholas II's re-initiation of absolute autocracy, the \"Zemstvos\" would become superfluous and basically be abolished. Engels expected this announcement would cause an upsurge in popular protest in Russia and Engels thought the timely publication of Plekhanov's book would augment that popular protest.\n\nLater on 8 February 1895, Engels wrote directly to Plekhanov congratulating him on the \"great success\" of getting the book \"published \"inside the country\"\". A German Edition of the Plekhanov's book was published in Stuttgart in 1896.\n\nThroughout the 1890s, Plekhanov was involved in three tasks in revolutionary literature. First, he sought to reveal the inner link between pre-Marxist French materialism and the materialism of Marx. His \"Essays on the History of Materialism (1892-1893)\" dealt with the French materialists—Paul Holbach and Claude-Adrien Helvètius. Plekhanov defended both Helvètius and Holbach from attacks by Friedrich Albert Lange, Jules-Auguste Soury and the other neo-Kantian idealist philosophers. In this series of writings, Plekhanov was careful to place special emphasis on the revolutionary nature of the Marxists' philosophy. Plekhanov not only found materialism to be the motor force in history, but went on to outline a particular type of materialism—the \"economic determinism model of materialism as the specific element that moved history.\"\n\nSecondly, Plekhanov outlined a history of materialism and its struggle against bourgeois ideologists. Bourgeois philosophers of the \"great man theory of history\" came under attack from Plekhanov from the economic determinist point of view in his 1898 book entitled \"On the Individual's Role in History.\" Thirdly, Plekhanov defended revolutionary Marxism against the revisionist critics—Eduard Bernstein, Pyotr Struve, \"etc\".\n\nIn 1900, Plekhanov, Axelrod, Zasulich, Lenin, Potresov, and Martov joined forces to establish a Marxist newspaper, \"Iskra\" (The Spark). The paper was intended to serve as a vehicle to unite various independent local Marxist groups into a single unified organization. From this effort emerged the Russian Social-Democratic Labor Party (RSDLP), an umbrella group which soon split into hostile Bolshevik and Menshevik political organizations.\n\nIn 1903, at the Second Congress of the RSDLP, Plekhanov initially sided with Lenin, ironic given his later politics.\n\nPlekhanov came to regret his remarks on the subordination of democracy to a proletarian dictatorship:\n\n\"The success of the revolution is the highest law. And if the success of the revolution demands a temporary limitation on the working of this or that democratic principle, then it would be criminal to refrain from such a limitation...The revolutionary proletariat might limit the political rights of the higher classes ...If in a burst of revolutionary enthusiasm the people chose a very fine parliament ...then we would make of it a long parliament ; and if the elections turned out unsuccessfully then we would have to try to disperse it.\"\n\nDuring the Russian Revolution of 1905, Plekhanov was unrelenting in his criticism of Lenin and the Bolsheviks, charging that they failed to understand the historically-determined limits of revolution and to base their tactics upon actual conditions. He believed the Bolsheviks were acting contrary to objective laws of history, which called for a stage of capitalist development before the establishment of socialist society would be possible in economically and socially backwards Russia and characterized the expansive goals of his radical opponents' \"political hallucinations.\"\n\nPlekhanov believed that Marxists should start concerning themselves with everyday struggles, as opposed to larger revolutionary goals. In order for this to occur, the Russian Social-Democratic Labor Party organizations had to be run democratically.\n\nDespite their sharp differences, Plekhanov was recognized, even in his own lifetime, as having made a great contribution to Marxist philosophy and literature by V.I. Lenin. \"The services he rendered in the past,\" Lenin wrote of Plekhanov, \"were immense. During the twenty years between 1883 and 1903 he wrote a large number of splendid essays, especially those against the opportunists, Machists, and Narodniks.\" Even after the October Revolution Lenin insisted on republishing Plekhanov's philosophical works and including these works as compulsory texts for prospective communists.\n\nIt seems that Plekhanov, although a revolutionary figure, had not taken the view that art must serve political ends. He himself criticized Chernyshevsky for his view of art, that art must be propagandist; he, rather, declared that only art which serves history, not transient pleasure, is valuable.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War I, Plekhanov became an outspoken supporter of the Entente powers, for which he was derided as a so-called \"Social Patriot\" by Lenin and his associates. Plekhanov was convinced that German imperialism was at fault for the war and he was convinced that German victory in the conflict would be an unmitigated disaster for the European working class.\n\nPlekhanov was initially dismayed by the February Revolution of 1917, considering it as an event which disorganized Russia's war effort. He soon came to terms with the event, however, conceiving of it as a long-anticipated bourgeois-democratic revolution which would ultimately bolster flagging popular support for the war effort and he returned home to Russia.\n\nPlekhanov was extremely hostile to the Bolshevik Party headed by V.I. Lenin and was the top leader of the tiny Yedinstvo group, which published a newspaper by the same name. He criticized Lenin's revolutionary April Theses as \"ravings\" and called Lenin himself an \"alchemist of revolution\" for his seeming willingness to leap over the stage of capitalist development in agrarian Russia in advocating socialist revolution. Plekhanov lent support to the idea that Lenin was a \"German agent\" and urged the Provisional Government of Alexander Kerensky to take severe repressive measures against the Bolshevik organization to halt its political machinations.\n\nIn 1879, Plekhanov married Rozalia Bograd, who accompanied him into exile in Switzerland in 1880. They had four daughters, two of whom died in childhood. Rozalia was born in 1856 in the Jewish colony of Dobroe in Kherson Oblast (present day Ukraine but at that time part of the Russian Empire). She trained as a doctor in Saint Petersburg (medical courses for women were first opened in 1873) and joined the ranks of the Populists or Narodniks, spending the summer of 1877 in the village of Shirokoe in Samara Oblast where she sought (without very much success) to raise the political consciousness of the local peasantry. She went to the front during the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878) where she recorded witnessing medical personnel treated badly, the sick cared for inadequately and military authorities engaged in theft and corruption. Her experiences there served to reinforce her radicalism. Rozalia, who had not been permitted to graduate in Russia, retrained in Switzerland and supported her family during its time in Geneva by working as a doctor. They lived variously in Geneva, Paris and for a time on the Italian Riviera on the advice of Plekhanov's doctors. She accompanied her husband back to Petrograd following the February Revolution and was with him when he died of tuberculosis in Finland in 1918. She returned to Paris where she died in 1949.\n\nPlekhanov left Russia again after the October Revolution due to his hostility to the Bolsheviks. He died of tuberculosis in Terijoki, Finland (now a suburb of St. Petersburg, Russia called Zelenogorsk) on 30 May 1918. He was 61. Plekhanov was buried in the Volkovo Cemetery in St. Petersburg near the graves of Vissarion Belinsky and Nikolay Dobrolyubov.\n\nIt was evident that Plekhanov and Lenin disagreed in terms of commitment to political action, as well as direct guidance to the working class. Despite his disagreements with Lenin, the Soviet Communists cherished his memory and gave his name to the Soviet Academy of Economics and the G. V. Plekhanov St. Petersburg State Mining Institute.\n\nDuring his life Plekhanov wrote extensively on historical materialism, on the history of materialist philosophy, on the role of the masses and of the individual in history. Plekhanov always insisted that Marxism was a materialist doctrine rather than an idealist one, and that Russia would have to pass through a capitalist stage of development before becoming socialist. He also wrote on the relationship between the base and superstructure, on the role of ideologies, and on the role of art in human society. He is remembered as an important and pioneer Marxist thinker on such matters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49460490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49460490", "title": "Giulio Sirenio", "text": "Giulio Sirenio\n\nGiulio Sirenio (Brescia, 1553 – 1593) was an Italian philosopher.\n"}
{"id": "8191286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8191286", "title": "HLSL2GLSL", "text": "HLSL2GLSL\n\nHLSL2GLSL is a command line tool and a library that translates shaders written in High Level Shader Language (HLSL) for Direct3D 9 into the OpenGL Shading Language (GLSL).\n\nHLSL2GLSL was released by ATI Technologies under a BSD License.\n\nLast version (v0.9) from ATI was released in 2006, but the project was forked in 2010 to fix issues and add features like OpenGL ES support. It is now used by Unity and OGRE to translate Cg/HLSL shaders into GLSL for mobile platforms.\n\nHLSL2GLSL is not part of GPUOpen.\n\nAt the XDC2014 Matt Turner pointed out that due to translations from HLSL to GLSL bloated shaders have become wide spread.shader-db.\n\n"}
{"id": "7869184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7869184", "title": "Holy actions", "text": "Holy actions\n\nHoly actions are when Roman Catholics offer their work, prayers, apostolic undertakings, daily works, hardships of life, relaxations of body and mind, and family and marriage lives to the Lord, in union with the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, in the Spirit of Love.\n\nUsually, the spiritual sacrifices are made with intentions in mind, such as \"for the intentions of the Pope\" or \"for the unity of Christians\". In reality, these offerings can be made for whatever good intentions that Christians bear in mind.\n\nBy their holy actions, Christians share in the priestly office of Jesus Christ, fulfill the call to holiness, consecrate the world to God, and hasten the Second Coming of the Lord.\n\nIn light of their share in the priestly office of Christ, Christians also share in the prophetic office and the kingly office of Christ. By their holy lives, Christians evangelize in the ordinary circumstances of the world and overcome the reign of sin in themselves.\n\nAccording to Sacred Tradition, Christians unite their offerings to the Liturgy of the Hours, if they do not already pray the Divine Office, because the Liturgy of the Hours is the Prayer of the Catholic Church, by which the night and day are made holy, which is the end of holy actions.\n\nOne popular example of an offering is that of the Daily Offering of the Apostolate of Prayer. While the Offering has gone through many recent changes, for various reasons, it is the traditional Offering that is the most well-known and prayed.\n\nO Jesus,\nthrough the Immaculate Heart of Mary,\nI offer you\nall my works, prayers, joys,\nand sufferings,\nin union with the Holy Sacrifice\nof the Mass,\ncelebrated throughout the world,\nfor love of you,\nfor the intentions of\nyour Sacred Heart,\nin reparation for my sins,\nfor all the intentions of our associations,\nand, in particular,\nfor the intentions of the Pope.\nAmen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35019967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35019967", "title": "Hri (Buddhism)", "text": "Hri (Buddhism)\n\nHri (Sanskrit, also \"hri\"; Pali: \"hiri\"; Tibetan Wylie: \"ngo tsha shes pa\") is a Buddhist term translated as \"self-respect\" or \"conscientiousness\". It is defined as the attitude taking earnest care with regard to ones actions and refraining from non-virtuous actions. It is one of the virtuous mental factors within the Abhidharma teachings. \n\nThe Abhidharma-samuccaya states: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3369667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3369667", "title": "Indifferentism", "text": "Indifferentism\n\nIndifferentism, in the Roman Catholic faith, is the belief held by some that no one religion or philosophy is superior to another. The Catholic Church ascribes indifferentism to many atheistic, materialistic, pantheistic, and agnostic philosophies. There are three basic types of indifferentism described by Catholic apologetics: absolute, restricted, and liberal or latitudinarian indifferentism. Indifferentism was first explicitly identified and opposed by Pope Gregory XVI, in his encyclical \"Mirari vos\".\n\nReligious Indifferentism is to be distinguished from political indifferentism, which is applied to the policy of a state that treats all the religions within its borders as being on an equal footing before the law of the country. Indifferentism is not to be confounded with religious indifference. The former is primarily a theory disparaging the value of religion; the latter term designates the conduct of those who, whether they do or do not believe in the necessity and utility of religion, do in fact neglect to fulfill its duties.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, the belief that one religion is as good as another, and that all religions are equally valid paths to salvation, is believed to be obviously false, on the grounds that nobody honestly believes that, for instance, a religion based on human sacrifice and the subjugation of rivals is as good, true, and beautiful as one based on heroic love of God and neighbor. The condemnation of Indifferentism as a heresy is closely linked to the dogmatic definition that outside the Church there is no salvation, a complex idea postulating that many people are followers of Christ without any specific understanding that it is in fact Jesus whom they are following. See also the Catholic concept of the \"Baptism of Desire\". In support of this stance the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith has said \"This does not lessen the sincere respect that the Church has for the various religious traditions, recognizing in them elements of truth and goodness.\"\n\nImmanuel Kant argues that absolute indifferentism represents an extreme form of skepticism that argues that there is no rational ground for accepting any philosophical position, a position that matches the Roman Catholic understanding of the term. According to the Catholic Church, this type of absolute indifferentism results in a willingness to concede any position. It is often associated with moral relativism.\n\nCatholicism also opposes as \"indifferentism\" a spectrum of pragmatic ideas that admit the necessity of religion because of its positive influence on human life; but which hold that all religions are equally true. The classic advocate of this theory is Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who maintains, in his \"\", that God looks only to the sincerity of intention, and that everybody can serve Him by remaining in the religion in which they were raised, or by converting to any other that pleases them more (Emile, III). This doctrine is widely advocated today on the grounds that, beyond the truth of God's existence, we can attain to no certain religious knowledge; and that, since God has left us thus in uncertainty, He will be pleased with whatever form of worship we sincerely offer Him. This idea appears to be tenable only in a cultural context that takes most core ethical beliefs for granted: it runs into serious trouble as soon as the basis of ethics comes into question. \n\nFrom a Roman Catholic perspective, to say that all these irreconcilable beliefs are equally pleasing to God is to say that God has no preference for truth and to deny reason. The Roman Catholic Church argues that restricted indifferentism is no different from absolute indifferentism because while nominally acknowledging the utility of religion, to affirm that \"all religions are equally good\" ultimately means that religion is good for nothing.\n\nThe Catholic Church also resists as indifferentism the belief that, since Christianity is the true religion, it makes no difference which of the several Christian denominations the believer chooses to join. Catholicism critiques Protestantism specifically for this sort of limited indifferentism, noting that many Protestant denominations do not claim any particular fidelity to the gospel, while maintaining that all forms of worship may be equally (read \"indifferently\") effective for the purpose of building a closer union with God: a latitudinarian position. Pope Pius XI explicitly criticized the Ecumenical movement on these grounds in his encyclical, \"Mortalium animos\". From the Catholic perspective, this form of indifferentism is rather like saying, \"It makes no difference what tools and materials are used to build a house, it will turn out just fine, no matter what you do or don't do.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41957071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41957071", "title": "James Giles (philosopher)", "text": "James Giles (philosopher)\n\nJames Giles (born 1958) is a Canadian philosopher and psychologist. He has written about personal identity and the self, and has published theories of the reason for human hairlessness and the cause of sexual desire.\n\nGiles studied at the University of British Columbia and at the University of Edinburgh. He lectures in psychology at Roskilde University in Denmark.\n\nGiles published his theory of sexual desire in \"The Nature of Sexual Desire\" in 2008. Sexologists usually account for sexual desire either in terms of social constructionism or as a biological characteristic essential to reproduction. Giles rejects both these views, and attempts to show by a phenomenological approach that sexual desire is an existential need rooted in the human condition, based on a feeling of incompleteness from the experience of one’s own gender as a form of disequilibrium. The theory thus shows similarities to earlier theories such as those of Thomas Nagel on sexual perversion, or of Aristophanes on romantic love in Plato's \"Symposium\".\n\nThe \"vulnerability and care theory of love\" was put forward by Giles in an article entitled \"A Theory of Love and Sexual Desire\" (1994) and later developed in his book \"The Nature of Sexual Desire\" (2004). Giles' theory has been discussed by scholars Dr. Ruth, in her textbook \"Human Sexuality: a Psychosocial Perspective\" (2002), and Dr. Barbara Keesling, in her book \"Sexual Pleasure: Reaching New Heights of Sexual Arousal\" (2005).\n\nGiles published his \"naked love theory\" of human hairlessness in 2010. He postulated that hairlessness in humans evolved as a result of the pleasure of skin-to-skin contact between mother and child, and thus ultimately as a consequence of bipedalism. According to Giles, naked skin is a precondition for the appearance of romantic love.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5226184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5226184", "title": "John D'Emilio", "text": "John D'Emilio\n\nJohn D'Emilio (born 1948) is a professor emeritus of history and of women's and gender studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago. He taught at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. He earned his Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1982, where his advisor was William Leuchtenburg. He was a Guggenheim fellow in 1998 and National Endowment for the Humanities fellow in 1997 and also served as Director of the Policy Institute at the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force from 1995 to 1997.\n\nD'Emilio was awarded the Stonewall Book Award in 1984 for his most widely cited book, \"Sexual politics, sexual communities\", which is considered the definitive history of the U.S. homophile movement from 1940 to 1970. His biography of the civil-rights leader Bayard Rustin, \"Lost prophet: Bayard Rustin and the quest for peace and justice in America\", won the Randy Shilts Award and the Stonewall Book Award for non-fiction in 2004. He was the 2005 recipient of the Brudner Prize at Yale University.\n\nHis and Estelle Freedman's book \"Intimate Matters: A History of Sexuality in America\" was cited in Justice Anthony Kennedy's opinion in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", the 2003 American Supreme Court case overturning all remaining anti-sodomy laws.\n\nIn 2005 D'Emilio was inducted into the Chicago Gay and Lesbian Hall of Fame.\n\nHe received the Bill Whitehead Award for Lifetime Achievement from Publishing Triangle in 2013.\n\nJim Oleson, his partner since the early 1980s, died at their home in Chicago on April 4, 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25427428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25427428", "title": "John J. O'Meara", "text": "John J. O'Meara\n\nJohn J. O'Meara (18 February 1915 – 12 February 2003) was an Irish classical scholar, historian of ancient and medieval philosophy (in particular Augustine and Eriugena), educationalist and writer.\n\nJohn J. O'Meara was born in Eyrecourt (Co. Galway) to Mary Donelan and Patrick O'Meara on 18 February 1915, but lost his father when he was less than a year old. He had a younger brother, Patrick ('Paddy'). He was educated at Rockwell College and Garbally, Ballinasloe, becoming for a time a Jesuit seminarist.\nIn his autobiographical book, \"The Singing Masters\", O'Meara describes the hard times of his childhood, including the terror brought by the British Black and Tans, and by the subsequent Irish Civil War. He also describes his early experience of the beauty of nature, and of the difficult experience of following and at last ending his engagement as a Jesuit novice.\nA collection of short stories, \"Remembering\" \"Eyrecourt. Vignettes and Tales of earlier Days,\" Eyrecourt 2003, also describes the world of his childhood.\n\nO'Meara took an M.A. degree in classics at University College Dublin in 1939 and was awarded a scholarship allowing him to complete a Doctorate in Philosophy at the University of Oxford (1942–45). \"The Singing Masters\" also describes war-time Oxford and the antiquated (and quaint) conditions in which he studied there. His thesis concerned Augustine's use of Porphyry and was later revised and published in Paris (1959).\nReturning to Dublin he was appointed Professor of Latin at University College Dublin in 1948, where he remained until his retirement in 1984.\nO'Meara held visiting appointments at the Princeton Institute of Advanced Study, Dumbarton Oaks (Harvard University) and Vassar College.\nIn Ireland he played a major role in the effort to modernize education in the schools and universities, in particular the teaching of Latin and Irish, and the collaboration between University College Dublin and Trinity College Dublin. His ideas were ahead of their time in the conservative and Church-dominated atmosphere in Ireland.\n\nO'Meara contributed to the founding of the Irish Association of Classical Teachers in 1959. In 1954 he published \"The Young Augustine\" (with many re-editions), an introduction to reading Augustine's \"Confessions\" which has kept its value.\nAs well as being a leading internationally recognized scholar on Augustine, he did much to further the study of the early medieval Irish philosopher John Scotus Eriugena, founding the Society for the Promotion of Eriugenian Studies in 1970 which stimulated a spectacular development in the study of Eriugena. He published a monograph on the philosopher, \"Eriugena\" (1988), and when he died he was working on finishing a complete edition and English translation of Eriugena's masterpiece, the \"Periphyseon\".\nO'Meara also published English translations of Latin texts important to Ireland, Giraldus Cambrensis' \"Topography of Ireland\" and \"The Voyage of Saint Brendan\".\nO'Meara was president of the Alliance Française in Ireland and was awarded the Légion d'Honneur.\nHe was a member of the Royal Irish Academy and of other international scholarly associations.\nIn 1947 O'Meara married Odile de Barthes de Montfort, with whom he had three children and with whom he published a little book presenting new discoveries concerning Bernadette of Lourdes \"(Ordeal at Lourdes\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2531673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2531673", "title": "John Millar (philosopher)", "text": "John Millar (philosopher)\n\nJohn Millar of Glasgow (22 June 1735 – 30 May 1801) was a Scottish philosopher, historian and Regius Professor of Civil Law at the University of Glasgow from 1761 to 1800.\n\nBorn a son of the manse of the Kirk o’ Shotts, Shotts, Lanarkshire, John Millar was educated by an uncle and then on his father being transferred to the parish of Hamilton, at the Old Grammar School of Hamilton (renamed the Hamilton Academy in 1848.) Continuing his studies at the University of Glasgow, he became one of the most important followers of Adam Smith, the founder of economic science. For a short time in the 1750s he was tutor in the household of Henry Home, Lord Kames. In 1760 he was admitted to the Faculty of Advocates. From 1761 to 1800, Millar was Regius Professor of Civil Law at Glasgow, where his lectures gained him nationwide fame. His colleagues and supporters included Smith, Kames, and David Hume. Millar was elected Clerk of the Senate of the University of Glasgow in 1772.\n\nMillar's \"Origin of the Distinction of Ranks\", published in 1778, advanced the view that economic system determines all social relations, even those between the genders. Such a view later became known as economic determinism, and was an important influence on Marxism. Werner Sombart described Millar's book as \"one of the best and most complete sociologies that we possess\".\n\nHis \"Historical View of the English Government\", published from 1787, was an important contemporary history of England, representing a milestone in the development of historiography. Millar engaged with other historians, drawing comparisons with the works and emphasised the social and economic bases of political system, which strongly differentiated his work from most of the earlier ones, which were more speculative than scientific.\n\nMillar lost a daughter by consumption in 1791, and his wife in 1795. His eldest son, John, a promising young man, went to the bar, and married the daughter of Dr. Cullen. He published a book upon the \"Law relating to Insurances\" in 1787. Ill-health and the unpopularity of the Whiggism which he inherited from his father induced him to emigrate in the spring of 1795 to America, where he died soon afterwards from a sunstroke.\n\nThree sons and six daughters survived their father. Of these James became professor of mathematics at Glasgow; the second, William joined the Royal Artillery; the third was a writer to the signet. One daughter, Agnes was married to James Mylne, professor of moral philosophy at Glasgow, and another, Margaret, to Dr. John Thomson, by whom she was mother of Allan Thomson, professor of surgery at Edinburgh. He left his manuscripts to his eldest son, to Professor Mylne, and to John Craig, his nephew, by whom some were published in 1803.\n\nIn 1985 the John Millar Chair of Law at the University of Glasgow was established in his memory.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54605783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54605783", "title": "Lars Bergström (philosopher)", "text": "Lars Bergström (philosopher)\n\nLars Bergström is a Swedish philosopher and professor of practical philosophy at Stockholm University. In 2017, he was awarded the \"Rettigska priset\" by the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities for his \"internationally influential philosophical authorship and his valuable contributions to the philosophical discussion in Sweden\".\n\nBergström received his PhD in 1966. His dissertation \"The Alternatives and Consequences of Actions\" attracted considerable international attention and sparked a lively and extensive discussion in professional philosophical journals. He served as a professor of practical philosophy at the University of Uppsala from 1974 until 1987, when he assumed his current position as a professor of practical philosophy at Stockholms University.\n\nBergström is a member of The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters and The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. For many years he has also been the editor of the academic philosophy journal Filosofisk tidskrift.\n"}
{"id": "3989513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989513", "title": "Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle upon Tyne", "text": "Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle upon Tyne\n\nThe Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle upon Tyne (or the \"Lit & Phil\" as it is popularly known) is a historical library in Newcastle upon Tyne, England, and the largest independent library outside London. The library is still available for both lending (to members) and as a free reference library.\n\nFounded in 1793 as a \"conversation club\" by the Reverend William Turner and others – more than fifty years before the London Library – the annual subscription was originally one guinea. The Lit and Phil library contained works in French, Spanish, German and Latin; its contacts were international, and its members debated a wide range of issues, but religion and politics were prohibited. Women were first admitted to the library in 1804.\nIn February 2011, actor and comedian Alexander Armstrong became President of the Lit & Phil. He launched their funding appeal at a special gala event.\nAt the start of 2012, membership of the Library reached 2,000, the highest number since 1952.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, the Lit & Phil was host to a long list of the intelligentsia of the era. Engineer and inventor George Stephenson showed his miner's lamp there, and in 1879, when Joseph Swan demonstrated his electric light bulbs, the Lit and Phil building became the first public building to be so illuminated.\n\nThe Society received in 1800 the country's first specimens of the wombat and the duck-billed platypus from John Hunter, Governor of New South Wales and honorary member of the Lit and Phil.\n\nBetween 1822 and 1825, a new building was created for the Society on Westgate Road, designed by John Green. The building is still in use today, with many original features including iron-work second-floor galleries.\n\nAmongst the historic and contemporary members are the following.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7772482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7772482", "title": "Lower risk", "text": "Lower risk\n\nAn animal with the conservation status of lower risk is one with populations levels high enough to ensure its survival. Animals with this status do not qualify as being threatened or extinct, however, natural disasters or certain human activities would cause them to change to either of these classifications.\n\nThis classification is sub-divided into three types:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4377691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4377691", "title": "Luigi Taparelli", "text": "Luigi Taparelli\n\nLuigi Taparelli (born Prospero Taparelli d'Azeglio; 1793–1862) was an Italian Catholic scholar of the Society of Jesus who coined the term social justice.\n\nTaparelli cofounded the journal \"Civiltà Cattolica\" in 1850 and wrote for it for twelve years. He was particularly concerned with the problems arising from the industrial revolution. He was a proponent of reviving the philosophical school of Thomism, and his social teachings influenced Pope Leo XIII's 1891 encyclical, \"Rerum novarum\" (On the Condition of the Working Classes).\n\nIn 1825, he became convinced that the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas needed to be revived, thinking that the subjective philosophy of René Descartes leads to dramatic errors in morality and politics. He reasoned that whereas different opinions on the natural sciences have no effect on nature, unclear metaphysical ideas about humanity and society can lead to social chaos.\n\nThe Catholic Church had not yet developed a clear philosophical view regarding the great social changes that were appearing in the early nineteenth century in Europe, which led to much confusion among the ecclesiastical hierarchy and laity. In response to this problem, Taparelli applied the methods of Thomism to these social problems in a coherent manner. \n\nAfter the social revolutions of 1848, the church decided to enter the conflict raging between the \"laissez-faire\" liberal capitalists and the socialists. Up until then, the church relied primarily on evangelical charitable activities. In 1850, Taparelli was granted permission by Pope Pius IX to co-found \"Civiltà Cattolica\" with Carlo Maria Curci. In particular, he attacked the tendency to separate morality from positive law, and also the \"heterodox spirit\" of unconstrained freedom of conscience which destroyed the unity of society.\n\nHis major ideas include sociality and subsidiarity. He viewed society as not a monolithic group of individuals, but of various levels of sub-societies, with individuals being members of these. Each level of society has both rights and duties which should be recognized and supported. All levels of society should cooperate rationally and not resort to competition and conflict.\n\nHis brother was the Italian politician Massimo d'Azeglio.\n\n"}
{"id": "39758053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39758053", "title": "Manresa House, Dublin", "text": "Manresa House, Dublin\n\nManresa House is a retreat centre run by the Society of Jesus next to Saint Anne's Park in the Dollymount area of Clontarf in Dublin. In the 19th century it was home to Robert Warren and Arthur Guinness and is a protected structure in Dublin.\n\nManresa House is a stately home that has had a series of different owners. It was originally known as Granby Hall, and then Baymount Castle and included 17 acres of land surrounding the house. Until 1783, it was a residence of the Bishop of Down and Connor, James Traill. In 1838, it was renovated by Robert Warren. Soon after, it became the property of the Sisters of Loreto who used it as a school. In 1851, it was renovated by the sisters, because the building was damaged by a serious fire that year.\n\nIn 1898, they sold it to Arthur Guinness, 1st Baron Ardilaun and moved to Balbriggan.\n\nIn around 1904 William Scott opened a school on the premises called Baymount Preparatory School, of which he was headmaster until 1936. The school was then acquired by John Tudor Gwynn, who ran it until 1948. John T Gwynn was a descendant of John Gwynn and a member of the Gwynn family that included noted literary figures such as Stephen Gwynn and Edward Gwynn.\n\nIn 1948, the Archbishop of Dublin, John Charles McQuaid asked the Jesuits to establish a spirituality centre in the Dollymount area, so they bought Baymount Castle. They renamed it Manresa House after Manresa in Catalonia, Spain, where St Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Jesuits had many spiritual experiences that contributed to formulation of his Spiritual Exercises.\n\nThe first retreat was held there in 1949. In 1966, a new separate house to was built to accommodate more retreatants and was opened in 1967. In 1969, the Irish Jesuits moved their novitiate from Emo Court in County Laois to a building within the grounds of Manresa House. In 1977, part of the property, near the novitiate, was sold to developers to build a housing estate. In 1991, the novitiate moved to Dublin. In 2006, a new building was built on the site of the old novitiate for the Tertianship of the Jesuits in Europe.\n\nThe centre offers a variety of directed retreats, seminars, and various day and evening events, as well as the 30-day retreat, from the Spiritual Exercises.\n\nIn the oval meditation room are a set of windows designed by Evie Hone. They were installed in the 1990s.\nManresa House, runs a two year \"Diploma in Spirituality (Spiritual Direction)\" accredited by St Patrick's College, Maynooth, similar to the course run by the Jesuits in Galway and Larne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20516033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20516033", "title": "Marcus Hartog", "text": "Marcus Hartog\n\nMarcus Manuel Hartog (1851 – 21 January 1924) was an English educator, natural historian, philosopher of biology and zoologist in Cork, Ireland. He contributed to multiple volumes of the \"Cambridge Natural History\".\n\nHartog was born in 1851, the second son of the Professor Alphonse Hartog (died 1904) and Marion (née Moss, 1821–1907), younger brother of Numa Edward Hartog and elder brother of Sir Philip Joseph Hartog, Academic Registrar of London University and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Dacca.\n\nHartog was educated at the North London Collegiate School, University College, London, and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he took a first class in the National Science Tripos in 1874, and went out in the same year to Ceylon as assistant to the Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens — a post that he held for three years. On his return he became a demonstrator, and afterwards a lecturer in natural history at Owens College, Manchester. In 1882 he began an association of more than 40 years with the educational life of Cork. For 27 years he was Professor of Natural History at Queen's College, Cork (1882–1907), and in 1909 proceeded to the chair of Zoology in what had become University College. When in 1921 he vacated the appointment, he was made Emeritus Professor.\n\nHartog was a Lamarckian. He argued for the inheritance of acquired characteristics and identified as a vitalist. He supported the non-Darwinian evolutionary ideas of Samuel Butler and wrote a supportive introduction to his book \"Unconscious Memory\". He argued that cell division occurs due to a new force he termed \"mitokinetism\".\n\nHartog died in Paris on 21 January 1924.\n\nHartog contributed articles to the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" and the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", as well as writing many articles for scientific journals.\n\n\nIn 1874 in Paris, France, Hartog married Blanche Levy, daughter of R. Levy, of Paris, and had issue.\n"}
{"id": "42842830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42842830", "title": "Maria Gaetana Agnesi", "text": "Maria Gaetana Agnesi\n\nMaria Gaetana Agnesi (; 16 May 1718 – 9 January 1799) was an Italian mathematician, philosopher, theologian, and humanitarian. She was the first woman to write a mathematics handbook and the first woman appointed as a mathematics professor at a university.\n\nShe is credited with writing the first book discussing both differential and integral calculus and was a member of the faculty at the University of Bologna, although she never served.\n\nShe devoted the last four decades of her life to studying theology (especially patristics) and to charitable work and serving the poor. She was a devout Catholic and wrote extensively on the marriage between intellectual pursuit and mystical contemplation, most notably in her essay \"Il cielo mistico\" (The Mystic Heaven). She saw the rational contemplation of God as a complement to prayer and contemplation of the life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ.\n\nMaria Teresa Agnesi Pinottini, clavicembalist and composer, was her sister.\n\nMaria Gaetana Agnesi was born in Milan, to a wealthy and literate family. Her father Pietro Agnesi, a wealthy silk merchant, wanted to elevate his family into the Milanese nobility. In order to achieve his goal, he had married Anna Fortunato Brivio of the Brivius de Brokles family in 1717. Her mother's death provided her the excuse to retire from public life. She took over management of the household. She was one of 21 children.\nMaria was recognized early on as a child prodigy; she could speak both Italian and French at five years of age. By her eleventh birthday, she had also learned Greek, Hebrew, Spanish, German, and Latin, and was referred to as the \"Seven-Tongued Orator\".\n\nAgnesi suffered a mysterious illness at the age of twelve that was attributed to her excessive studying and was prescribed vigorous dancing and horseback riding. This treatment did not work; she began to experience extreme convulsions, after which she was encouraged to pursue moderation. By age fourteen, she was studying ballistics and geometry. When she was fifteen, her father began to regularly gather in his house a circle of the most learned men in Bologna, before whom she read and maintained a series of theses on the most abstruse philosophical questions. Records of these meetings are given in Charles de Brosses' \"Lettres sur l'Italie\" and in the \"Propositiones Philosophicae\", which her father had published in 1738 as an account of her final performance, where she defended 190 philosophical theses.\n\nHer father remarried twice after Maria's mother died, and Maria Agnesi ended up the eldest of 21 children, including her half-siblings. Her father agreed with her that if she were to continue her research into mathematics, then she would be permitted to do all the charity work she wantedIn addition to her performances and lessons, her responsibility was to teach her siblings. This task kept her from her own goal of entering a convent, as she had become strongly religious. Although her father refused to grant this wish, he agreed to let her live from that time on in an almost conventual semi-retirement, avoiding all interactions with society and devoting herself entirely to the study of mathematics. After having read in 1739 the \"Traité analitique des sections coniques\" of the Marquis Guillaume de l'Hôpital, she was fully introduced into the field in 1740 by Ramiro Rampinelli, an Olivetan monk who was one of the most notable Italian mathematicians of that time. During that time, Maria studied with him both differential and integral calculus. Her family was recognized as one of the wealthiest in Milan.\n\nAccording to Britannica, she is \"considered to be the first woman in the Western world to have achieved a reputation in mathematics.\" The most valuable result of her labours was the \"Instituzioni analitiche ad uso della gioventù italiana\", (Analytical Institutions for the Use of Italian Youth) which was published in Milan in 1748 and \"was regarded as the best introduction extant to the works of Euler.\" The goal of this work was, according to Agnesi herself, to give a systematic illustration of the different results and theorems of infinitesimal calculus. The model for her treatise was \"Le calcul différentiel et intégral dans l’Analyse\" by Charles René Reyneau. In this treatise, she worked on integrating mathematical analysis with algebra. The first volume treats of the analysis of finite quantities and the second of the analysis of infinitesimals. \n\nA French translation of the second volume by P. T. d'Antelmy, with additions by Charles Bossut (1730–1814), was published in Paris in 1775; and \"Analytical Institutions\", an English translation of the whole work by John Colson (1680–1760), the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge, \"inspected\" by John Hellins, was published in 1801 at the expense of Baron Maseres. The work was dedicated to Empress Maria Theresa, who thanked Agnesi with the gift of a diamond ring, a personal letter, and a diamond and crystal case. Many others praised her work, including Pope Benedict XIV, who wrote her a complimentary letter and sent her a gold wreath and a gold medal. \n\nIn writing this work, Agnesi was advised and helped by two distinguished mathematicians: her former teacher Ramiro Rampinelli and Jacopo Riccati.\n\nThe \"Instituzioni analitiche...\", among other things, discussed a curve earlier studied and constructed by Pierre de Fermat and Guido Grandi. Grandi called the curve \"versoria\" in Latin and suggested the term \"versiera\" for Italian, possibly as a pun: 'versoria' is a nautical term, \"sheet\", while \"versiera/aversiera\" is \"she-devil\", \"witch\", from Latin \"Adversarius\", an alias for \"devil\" (Adversary of God). For whatever reasons, after translations and publications of the \"Instituzioni analitiche...\" the curve has become known as the \"Witch of Agnesi\".\n\nAgnesi also wrote a commentary on the \"Traité analytique des sections coniques du marquis de l'Hôpital\" which, though highly praised by those who saw it in manuscript, was never published.\n\nIn 1750, on the illness of her father, she was appointed by Pope Benedict XIV to the chair of mathematics and natural philosophy and physics at Bologna, though she never served. She was the second woman ever to be granted professorship at a university, Laura Bassi being the first.\nIn 1751, she became ill again and was told not to study by her doctors. After the death of her father in 1752 she carried out a long-cherished purpose by giving herself to the study of theology, and especially of the Fathers and devoted herself to the poor, homeless, and sick, giving away the gifts she had received and begging for money to continue her work with the poor. In 1783, she founded and became the director of the Opera Pia Trivulzio, a home for Milan's elderly, where she lived as the nuns of the institution did. On 9 January 1799, Maria Agnesi died poor and was buried in a mass grave for the poor with fifteen other bodies.\n\nIn 1996, an asteroid, 16765 Agnesi, was named after Agnesi. There is a crater on Venus named after her, too. There is also a mathematical curve named the Witch of Agnesi.\n\nIn 2017, the Family Coppola released a brandy named after Agnesi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21843727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21843727", "title": "Marianna Marquesa Florenzi", "text": "Marianna Marquesa Florenzi\n\nMarianna Marchesa Florenzi (1802 - 15 April 1870, Florence), née Marianna Bacinetti, was an Italian noblewoman and translator of philosophical works. She was also known by her married name of Marianna Florenzi Waddington.\n\nA daughter of count Bacinetti of Ravenna, she had a literary education and devoted herself to reading philosophical works, becoming the female ideal of an educated woman of the time and a witty hostess of cultural gatherings and salons. She was one of the first female students, studying natural sciences at the University of Perugia in the first half of the 19th century. She translated Leibniz's \"Monadology\" into Italian and also promoted the spread of works by Kant, Spinoza and Schelling in Italian. Politically she supported Italy's national-movement and in 1850 published \"Some reflections on socialism and communism\", which (like many of her other works) ended up on the church's Index Librorum Prohibitorum. She was for forty years a lover and close friend of Ludwig I of Bavaria, whom she visited more than thirty times. He always sought her advice, even in government matters, and 3,000 of her letters to him (along with 1,500 of his replies) survive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2448033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2448033", "title": "Morris Janowitz", "text": "Morris Janowitz\n\nMorris Janowitz (October 22, 1919 – November 7, 1988) was an American sociologist and professor who made major contributions to sociological theory, the study of prejudice, urban issues, and patriotism. He was one of the founders of military sociology and made major contributions, along with Samuel P. Huntington, to the establishment of contemporary civil-military relations. He was a professor of sociology at the University of Michigan and the University of Chicago and held a five-year chairmanship of the Sociology Department at University of Chicago. He was the Lawrence A. Kimpton Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago. Janowitz was the vice-president of the American Sociological Association, receiving their Career of Distinguished Scholarship award, and a fellow of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Association. Janowitz also founded the Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society, as well as the journal \"Armed Forces & Society\". He was an early founder of the field of military sociology. His students, such as David R. Segal, Mady Segal, and James Burk are prominent and influential military sociologists. \n\nJanowitz was born in Paterson, New Jersey, the second son of Polish-Jewish immigrants. Paterson was known for its silk industry, in which his father worked, eventually establishing his own silk business. Janowitz earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Washington Square College of New York University (New York University), where he studied under Sidney Hook (former student of John Dewey) and Bruce Lannes Smith (former student of Harold Lasswell). Hook exposed Janowitz to Dewey's philosophy of American pragmatism, while Smith exposed him to Laswell's \"Chicago School\" approach to social science and psychoanalysis.\n\nAfter graduating from Washington Square College, he worked for the Library of Congress and the Justice Department Special War Policies Unit. In 1943, Janowitz was drafted into the Army, where he joined the Office of Strategic Services Research and Analysis Branch, performing content analysis of communications and propaganda in German radio broadcasts, as well as interviews of German prisoners of war. Janowitz's experiences with the war had a profound impact on the subsequent direction of his academic career: \"This experience with war, with the research that war required of him and with other social scientists engaged in the war effort, crystallized Janowitz's self-identification as a social scientist\".\n\nIn 1946, Janowitz began his graduate studies at the University of Chicago. Before completing his Ph.D in Sociology in 1948, he was hired as an instructor at Chicago. He became an assistant professor upon completion of his PhD. In 1951, Janowitz became a sociology professor at the University of Michigan, where he taught until 1961. Toward the end of his stay at Michigan, Janowitz took an academic fellowship, during which he completed his first major publication, \"The Professional Soldier.\" During his last year at Michigan, Janowitz organized a group of scholars around the founding of the Inter-University Seminar on Armed Forces and Society (IUS) to \"support development of sociological analyses of military organization; to prepare a series of specific research papers on internal military organization; and to serve as a focal point for long-term training in and for the development of a relationship between sociology and the military establishment\". The IUS remains active to date, and continues to publish the journal Armed Forces & Society.\n\nIn 1962, Janowitz left Michigan and became a professor in the University of Chicago Sociology Department. In 1967, Janowitz was appointed chairman of the department. In this capacity, he worked to rebuild what seemed to be a once great, but presently fractured, Sociology Department. Janowitz did so by encouraging \"new theoretical outlooks and alternative methodological approaches\" through hiring more diverse faculty members from different disciplines. He also sought to reconstruct the intellectual heritage of the department through the creation of \"The Heritage of Sociology\" book series. The compilation of 40 volumes in the Heritage series led Janowitz to reflect upon the philosophical foundations for sociology, recalling influential pragmatists such as George Herbert Mead, Sydney Hook, and perhaps most importantly, John Dewey. Janowitz completed his five-year chairmanship of the Sociology Department in 1972. In 1972, Janowitz was honored as a Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions by the University of Cambridge.\n\nJanowitz remained in the department until his retirement in 1987, focusing more heavily on his academic pursuits, which culminated into a trilogy of books published between 1976 and 1983: \"Social Control of the Welfare State,\" \"The Last Half-Century,\" and \"The Reconstruction of Patriotism.\"\n\nJanowitz died one year after retirement in 1988 on November 7 from Parkinson's disease.\n\nIn 1953 Janowitz summoned a group of scholars, including Samuel P. Huntington, to Ann Arbor, Michigan to discuss the future study of the armed forces. This led Janowitz to cultivate and develop his ideas about military sociology through a Fulbright Fellowship in 1954 and a fellowship at the Center of Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in 1958, where in 1960 he completed his first major publication on military sociology, \"The Professional Soldier: A Social and Political Portrait\" (13).\n\n\"The Professional Soldier\" was a major accomplishment and established the study of the military as a sub-field in sociology by creating a \"fertile research agenda\" which other scholars could and still do follow. It remains one of the foundational works in the area of civil-military relations,\nand was particularly important given that previous foci of sociology had avoided the study of the armed forces. \"The Professional Soldier\" focused on military elites, as well as those officers who were \"destined soon to join the inner-circles of military decision-making\"(177). In \"The Professional Soldier\", Janowitz used a methodology which included content analysis, a survey of 760 generals and admirals and 576 military officers from the Pentagon, and interviews of over 100 high-level officers (995). It revealed the changing nature of organizational authority within the military away from a disciplinary model towards subtler forms of personnel management, reflecting a convergence between the military and civilian spheres. Furthermore, the soldier had become more technical and proficient in its functional means, narrowing the gap between the civilian and military spheres by requiring specialized civilian participation in the more technical capacities of the military. The military also seemed to be experiencing a shift in recruitment trends, wherein the demographics of the military after World War II began to more closely resemble those of the American people. Finally, the leadership of the U.S. Armed Forces had become increasingly politicized. This led Janowitz to develop a dichotomous epistemic framework, consisting of two competing perspectives about the proper use of the armed forces in international relations. These perspectives he termed \"absolutist\" and \"pragmatic\" (996). Overall these trends, Janowitz argued, resulted in a convergence between military culture and civil society; in other words, the civilianization of the military and the militarization of civil society.\n\nAfter Janowitz completed his chairmanship of the sociology department at the University of Chicago in 1972, he was able to place more energy into his academic pursuits. These efforts culminated into the development of a trilogy of books published between 1976 and 1983: \"Social Control and the Welfare State\", \"The Last Half-Century,\" and \"The Reconstruction of Patriotism.\" Of these three books, \"The Last Half-Century\" gained perhaps the most notoriety, though all three works never achieved the success that \"The Professional Soldier\" experienced.\n\nAfter the end of World War II, many began to question the role and size of the peace-time U.S. military, arguing against increased militarization of American culture. Morris Janowitz in \"The Professional Soldier\" (1960) and Samuel Huntington in \"The Soldier and The State\" (1956) formulated two distinct but closely related theories, which provided alternative conceptions to those which emphasized fears of militarization. Both theories concerned the preservation of liberal democracy: Huntington advocated a liberal theory of \"objective civilian control\" of the military to protect American democracy from foreign threats, while Janowitz advocated a more civic-republican theory, which encouraged active interconnectedness between civil society and the military in order to foster a greater sense of civic participation. These theories were informed by basic historical perspectives about the proper construction of civil-military relations in democratic societies. Huntington's liberal theory of civil-military relations seemed to flow from thinkers like Thomas Hobbes, who advocated that the role of the military was to protect society from threats emerging from the state of nature present in international relations, unbound by the social contract; and John Stuart Mill, who argued strenuously that the military must be regulated and controlled by the state so that it may not pursue its own objectives counter to democratic society. Janowitz's theory of civil-military relations, on the other hand, seemed to recall the ancient Roman republic, which embraced external conflict as a motivating and cohering force for domestic culture, and encouraged civic participation and a sense of \"citizenship\" necessary for the maintenance of the nation. His theory was also more centrally concerned with civic virtue, inspired through the role of the active participation of the citizen soldier.\n\nAs James Burk noted, both theories are somewhat outdated and flawed by today's standards. In Burk's words, Huntington's theory \"presumes that there is a clearly delineated military sphere defined by war fighting that is independent of the social and political sphere\". Huntington's theory is said to have overlooked the transformation in international relations occurring as a result of development of nuclear weapons, the arms race, and the threat of nuclear annihilation and overestimated the ability of nations to define and achieve acceptable ends under such a war fighting context. The other problem with Huntington's theory is that it advocated for a more conservative realism in international relations, requiring a more \"spartan\" cultural attitude unacceptable to the American people. On the other hand, Janowitz argued that civic participation should be encouraged in American society through the model of the citizen-soldier, but failed to elucidate how such a model would be propagated in the absence of mass-mobilization for major wars. One such method would have been embedding military service within a voluntary national service system, an idea which never found political support in American politics.\n\nJanowitz earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Washington Square College of New York University (New York University), where he studied under Sidney Hook, prominent pragmatist and former student of John Dewey. Hook exposed Janowitz to Dewey's philosophy of American pragmatism at an early age, though he did not fully explore pragmatism's philosophical foundations in sociology until after founding the Heritage of Sociology series at the University of Chicago. Sociology had been weakly tied to pragmatism at the Chicago School through George Herbert Mead and the theory of symbolic interaction, which emphasized a micro-social research agenda.\n\nJanowitz also utilized pragmatism in his characterization of attitudes among military leadership. In \"The Professional Soldier\", Janowitz noted during the Vietnam era a prolonged debate in the officer corp \"about the legitimacy of strategic objectives and specific military tactics,\" which unfolded under two dominant perspectives about the appropriate role of the military in international relations: absolutist and pragmatist. Absolutists were military officers \"who thought more in terms of conventional definitions of victory,\" while pragmatists were those \"who thought in terms of changing realities, nuclear weapons and national liberation movements\"(xli). Janowitz traced these attitudes historically to competing perspectives about the European and East Asian theaters of war during WWII, noting \"a strong continuity between an officer's estimate of the conduct of World War II and his contemporary adherence to pragmatic or absolute doctrine\". Those who defined the European theater of war as a \"measured success\" were more likely to adhere to a pragmatic doctrine, while those who viewed the European theater as a failure tended to be more absolutist. Moreover, the absolutist perspective was associated with an emphasis on and preference for naval strategy (emanating from Alfred Thayer Mahan's theories of naval power) and strategy based on air power, which were both better suited to conflict in East Asia rather than Europe. In the Cold War period, adherents of both perspectives adapted to the new realities of nuclear warfare through a shared belief in nuclear deterrence, but diverged into competing sub-doctrines of \"massive and graduated deterrence\". Thus, absolutists tended to side with Gen. Macarthur's proposal to commence a strategic nuclear bombing of China during the Korean War in order to achieve absolute military victory, while pragmatists were more likely to support limited wars suitable to achieving political objectives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69685", "title": "Nicolaism", "text": "Nicolaism\n\nNicolaism (also Nicholaism, Nicolaitism, Nicolationism, or Nicolaitanism) is a Christian heresy first mentioned (twice) in the Book of Revelation of the New Testament, whose adherents were called Nicolaitans, Nicolaitanes, or Nicolaites. According to Revelation 2:6 and 15, they were known in the cities of Ephesus and Pergamum. In this chapter, the church at Ephesus is commended for \"[hating] the works of the Nicolaites, which I also hate\"; and the church in Pergamos is rebuked: \"So thou hast also some [worshiping in their midst] who hold the teaching of the Nicolaites\".\n\nSeveral of the early church fathers mentioned this group, including Irenaeus, Hippolytus, Epiphanius, and Theodoret, stating that deacon Nicolas was the author of the heresy and the sect.\n\nThe Bible mentions the Nicolaites in the second chapter of the Book of Revelation:\n\nRevelation 2 (Confraternity Version)\n\nVerse 6 “But this thou [the church of Ephesus] hast: thou hatest the works of the Nicolaites, which I [Jesus Christ] also hate.”\n\nVerses 14-16 “But I have a few things against thee [the church in Pergamos], because thou hast there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, that they might eat and commit fornication. So thou hast also some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaites. In like manner repent; or else I will come to thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.”\n\nThe last Western Church Father was Isidore of Seville, who finished the \"Etymologies\", or the \"Origins\", in the year 636 A.D. In Book VIII titled \"The Church and sects (De ecclesia et sects)\" he wrote, \"The Nicolaites (Nicolaita) are so called from Nicolas, deacon of the church of Jerusalem, who, along with Stephen and the others, was ordained by Peter. He abandoned his wife because of her beauty, so that whoever wanted to might enjoy her; the practice turned into debauchery, with partners being exchanged in turn. Jesus condemns them in the Apocalypse, saying (2:6): “But this thou hast, that thou hates the deeds of the Nicolaites.”\n\nJohn Henry Blunt points out that the Bible condemns the false teachings, and the use of a name to describe a group \"shows that there was a distinct heretical party which held the doctrine.\" The letters which Jesus dictates for the churches in Revelation 2 \"show that these heretics had neither formally separated themselves from the Church nor had been excommunicated.\"\n\nA common view holds that the Nicolaitans held the antinomian heresy of 1 Corinthians 6, although this has not been proved. One scholar who espouses this interpretation, John Henry Blunt, maintains that the comparison between the Nicolaitans and Balaam \"proves that the fornication spoken of is not that crime under ordinary circumstances, but fornication connected with religious rites\". Blunt points out that the Hebrews had a long history of preaching against or alternatively using cult prostitutes (Genesis 38:21-22; Deuteronomy 23:17-8; 1 Kings 14:24, 15:12, 22:46; 2 Kings 23:7; Ezekiel 16:16; Hosea 4:14). He also points out that the early Christians lived in a pagan culture where the worship of Aphrodite included \"hierodoule\" who engaged in ritual prostitution in her shrines and temples, and that the Dionysian Mysteries used intoxicants and other trance-inducing techniques to remove inhibitions and social constraints of believers (regardless of class or gender) to enter into an animalistic state of mind.\n\nBlunt holds that the Nicolaitans believed either that the command against ritual sex was part of the Mosaic law (from which they had been freed by Jesus Christ) and it was licit for them, or that they went too far during Christian \"love-feasts\". Blunt sees echoes of this behavior in the admonishments which Paul gives the Corinthians, though he does not name them as such. Blunt also believes that similar echoes can be found in the admonishments of Jude 4-16 (which invokes both \"Balaam's error\" and \"love feasts\") and 2 Peter 2:2-21 (which repeats much of Jude's statements, including invoking Balaam).\n\nThe trend began early in Christianity of applying the term \"Nicolaitans\" to describe other antinomian groups with no attachment to the historical Nicolaitans. Tertullian in his \"Prescription Against Heretics\", 33, is such an example: \"John, however, in the Apocalypse is charged to chastise those 'who eat things sacrificed to idols,' and 'who commit sexual immorality.' There are even now another sort of Nicolaitans. Theirs is called the Gaian heresy.\"\n\nIrenaeus in \"Adversus Haereses\" III. xi. 1; I. xxvi. 3 holds that the Gospel of John was written to counter the teachings of Cerinthus, which he holds was spread by the Nicolaitans. But when Irenaeus focuses on them later, he only presents them as the Book of Revelation did, with no explanation how they can be held to have the doctrines of Cerinthus. Later, Augustine of Hippo ascribed to them Cerinthian doctrines concerning the creation of the world (in his \"De haeresibus ad Quodvultdeum\", v).\n\nVictorinus of Pettau held that the error of the Nicolaitans was that they ate things offered to idols. Bede states that Nicolas allowed other men to marry his wife. Thomas Aquinas believed that Nicholas supported either polygamy or the holding of wives in common. Eusebius claimed that the sect was short-lived.\n\nA number of authors favour another opinion: that the mention of the Nicolaitans is merely a symbolic manner of reference, because of the allegorical character of the Apocalypse. As a symbolic reference (according to this view), the \"teaching of the Nicolaitans\" refers to dominating the people, compared to the \"teaching of Balaam\" which refers to seducing the people. John, the author of Revelation, discusses domination within the church in 3 John 9-11. Such a teaching would contradict \"whoever would be great among you must be your servant\" (Matthew 20:26).\n\nThose who view the account in Revelation 2 as not literal treat the word \"Nicolaitan\" not as based upon an individual's name, but as a compound descriptive word. \"Nico-\" means \"victory\" in Greek, and \"laos\" means \"people\" or, more specifically, \"the laity\". Hence they take the word to mean \"lay conquerors\" or \"conquerors of the lay people\".\n\nHowever, \"Nicolaitan\" (Greek: Νικολαϊτῶν; Νικολαΐτης) is the name ostensibly given to followers of the heretic Nicolas (Greek: Νικόλαος). The name itself means \"victorious over people\" or \"victory of the people\", but it is a name that a person would have been given at birth.\n\nThe name Balaam is perhaps capable of being interpreted as a Hebrew equivalent of the Greek Nicolas. Some commentators think that John alludes to this in Revelation 2:14; and C. Vitringa argues forcibly in support of this opinion. However, Albert Barnes notes:\nCyrus Scofield suggests in his \"Notes on the Bible\" that the Seven Letters in Revelation foretell the various eras of Christian history, and that \"Nicolaitans\" \"refers to the earliest form of the notion of a priestly order, or 'clergy', which later divided an equal brotherhood into 'priests' and 'laity.'\"\n\nThe Nicolas of was a native of Antioch and a proselyte (convert to Judaism) and then a follower of the way of Christ. When the Church was still confined to Jerusalem, he was chosen by the whole multitude of the disciples to be one of the first seven deacons, and he was ordained by the apostles, \"c.\" AD 33. It has been questioned whether this Nicolas was connected with the Nicolaitans mentioned in Revelation, and if so, how closely.\n\nIrenaeus, was of the opinion that he was their founder.\n\nHippolytus of Rome shared the opinion that Nicolas became a heresiarch (in \"Refutation of All Heresies\" vii. 24).\n\nIn other writings of the early Church this connection is disputed and the Nicolaitans are said to be \"falsely so called\" (ψευδώνυμοι). Clement of Alexandria put forward a defense of Nicolas (in \"Stromata\" ii. 20, iii. 4) which Eusebius accepts and repeats (in \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" iii. 29).\n\nEpiphanius relates some details of the life of Nicolas the deacon, and describes him as gradually sinking into the grossest impurity, and becoming the originator of the Nicolaitans and other libertine Gnostic sects:\nHippolytus agreed with Epiphanius in his unfavourable view of Nicolas.\n\nJerome believes the account of Nicolas succumbing to heresy, at least to some extent. This was also the opinion of the unknown Christian author (writing around 435) of \"Praedestinatus\" (in i. 4.), as well as other writers in the 4th century.\n\nThis view of Nicolas is irreconcilable with the traditional account of his character given by Clement of Alexandria, an earlier writer than Epiphanius. He states that Nicolas led a chaste life and brought up his children in purity. He describes a certain occasion when Nicolas had been sharply reproved by the apostles as a jealous husband, and he repelled the charge by offering to allow his wife to become the wife of any other person. Clement also writes that Nicolas was in the habit of repeating a saying which is ascribed to the apostle Matthias, \"that it is our duty to fight against the flesh and to abuse\" (παραχρῆσθαι) \"it\". His words were perversely interpreted by the Nicolaitans as authority for their immoral practices. Theodoret repeats the foregoing statement of Clement in his account of the sect, and charges the Nicolaitans with false dealing in borrowing the name of the deacon.\n\nClement (in \"Stromata\" 3, 2) does condemn heretics whose views on sex he sees as licentious, but he does not associate them with Nicolas:\n\nClement asks: \n\nEusebius speaks directly about the Nicolaitans and Nicolas (in his \"Historia Ecclesiastica\" iii, 29), saying \"At this time the so-called sect of the Nicolaitans made its appearance and lasted for a very short time. Mention is made of it in the Apocalypse of John. They boasted that the author of their sect was Nicolaus, one of the deacons who, with Stephen, were appointed by the apostles for the purpose of ministering to the poor.\"\n\nEusebius repeats Clement's story about Nicolas and his wife and holds that those he decries as heretics are claiming his name for their sect because they misunderstand the context of his presentation of his wife to the apostles and are \"imitating blindly and foolishly that which was done and said, [in order to] commit fornication without shame. But I understand that Nicolaus had to do with no other woman than her to whom he was married, and that, so far as his children are concerned, his daughters continued in a state of virginity until old age, and his son remained uncorrupt. If this is so, when he brought his wife, whom he jealously loved, into the midst of the apostles, he was evidently renouncing his passion; and when he used the expression, 'to abuse the flesh,' he was inculcating self-control in the face of those pleasures that are eagerly pursued. For I suppose that, in accordance with the command of the Savior, he did not wish to serve two masters, pleasure and the Lord [Matthew 6:24; Luke 16:13]. ...So much concerning those who then attempted to pervert the truth, but in less time than it has taken to tell it became entirely extinct.\"\n\nEusebius (in his \"Historia Ecclesiastica\", iv, 7) held that as Satan was shut off from using persecution against Christians \"he devised all sorts of plans, and employed other methods in his conflict with the Church, using base and deceitful men as instruments for the ruin of souls and as ministers of destruction. Instigated by him, impostors and deceivers, assuming the name of our religion, brought to the depth of ruin such of the believers as they could win over, and at the same time, by means of the deeds which they practiced, turned away from the path which leads to the word of salvation those who were ignorant of the faith.\" He traces heresy from the Biblical figure of Simon Magus (Acts 8:9-29) through Menander to both Saturnius of Antioch and Basilides of Alexandria. Following Irenaeus, Eusebius says \"Basilides, under the pretext of unspeakable mysteries, invented monstrous fables, and carried the fictions of his impious heresy quite beyond bounds.\" He reports that Christian author Agrippa Castor \"While exposing his mysteries he says that Basilides wrote twenty-four books upon the Gospel, and that he invented prophets for himself named Barcabbas and Barcoph, and others that had no existence, and that he gave them barbarous names in order to amaze those who marvel at such things; that he taught also that the eating of meat offered to idols and the unguarded renunciation of the faith in times of persecution were matters of indifference; and that he enjoined upon his followers, like Pythagoras, a silence of five years. ...Thus it came to pass that the malignant demon, making use of these ministers, on the one hand enslaved those that were so pitiably led astray by them to their own destruction, while on the other hand he furnished to the unbelieving heathen abundant opportunities for slandering the divine word, inasmuch as the reputation of these men brought infamy upon the whole race of Christians. In this way, therefore, it came to pass that there was spread abroad in regard to us among the unbelievers of that age, the infamous and most absurd suspicion that we practiced unlawful commerce with mothers and sisters, and enjoyed impious feasts.\" Here a doctrine of indifference concerning eating meat sacrificed to idols is put forward along with a doctrine of licentious sex, but no mention of Nicolaitanes is made nor blame assigned to Nicolas.\n\nJustin Martyr (in \"Dialogue with Trypho\", 35) also discusses the fact \"that many of those who say that they confess Jesus, and are called Christians, eat meats offered to idols, and declare that they are by no means injured in consequence.\" He says such people are \"confessing themselves to be Christians, and admitting the crucified Jesus to be both Lord and Christ, yet not teaching His doctrines, but those of the spirits of error. ...[They are those who] teach to blaspheme the Maker of all things, and Christ, who was foretold by Him as coming, and the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, with whom we have nothing in common, since we know them to be atheists, impious, unrighteous, and sinful, and confessors of Jesus in name only, instead of worshipers of Him. Yet they style themselves Christians, just as certain among the Gentiles inscribe the name of God upon the works of their own hands, and partake in nefarious and impious rites.\" Justin holds their existence furthers the true faith as it is proof of Christian Scriptural prophecy about the rise of false teachers (Matthew 7:15, 24:11; 1 Corinthians 11:19). He declares that they are those ...who, coming forward in the name of Jesus, taught both to speak and act impious and blasphemous things; and these are called by us after the name of the men from whom each doctrine and opinion had its origin.\" Despite the similar charge of eating \"meats offered to idols\" Justin does not link the groups with Nicolaitanes or Nicolas - rather saying \"Some are called Marcians, and some Valentinians, and some Basilidians, and some Saturnilians, and others by other names; each called after the originator of the individual opinion...the name of the father of the particular doctrine.\"\n\nAmong later critics, Cotelerius seems to lean towards the favourable view of the character of Nicolas in a note on \"Constit. Apost.\" vi. 8, after reciting the various authorities. Edward Burton was of opinion that the origin of the term Nicolaitans is uncertain, and that, \"though Nicolas the deacon has been mentioned as their founder, the evidence is extremely slight which would convict that person himself of any immoralities.\"\n\nTillemont was possibly influenced by the fact that no honour is paid to the memory of Nicolas by any branch of the Church. He allows more weight to the testimony against him, and peremptorily rejects Cassian's statement (to which Neander adheres) that some other Nicolas was the founder of the sect. Tillemont concludes that, if not the actual founder, he was so unfortunate as to give occasion to the formation of the sect by his indiscreet speaking. Grotius' view is given in a note on Revelation 2:6 and is substantially the same as that of Tillemont.\n\nSome believe that it was another Nicolas, rather than Nicolas the Deacon himself becoming an apostate. Another possibility is that it was someone closely connected with Nicolas, such as his one son who became bishop of Samaria, where Gnosticism originated before spreading to the Anatolian cities of Pergamum and Ephesus in the Roman province of Asia (minor), also known as proconsular Asia:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1108830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108830", "title": "Nihonjinron", "text": "Nihonjinron\n\n, is a genre of texts that focus on issues of Japanese national and cultural identity. Such texts share a general assumption of the uniqueness of Japan, and the term \"nihonjinron\" can be employed to refer to this outlook.\n\nThe concept became popular after World War II, with books and articles aiming to analyze, explain, or explore peculiarities of Japanese culture and mentality, usually by comparison with those of Europe and the United States. The literature is vast, ranging over such varied fields as sociology, psychology, anthropology, history, linguistics, philosophy, biology, chemistry and physics so in addition to the common generic word \"nihonjinron\", a variety of topical subgenres exist, divided up by specific theme or subject-matter. For example:\n\n\nBooks written by non-Japanese authors may also be classed as \"nihonjinron,\" if they share, contribute to, or reflect the vision, premises, and perspectives characteristic of the Japanese genre.\n\nThere seems no doubt that intense feelings for one's native country and its identity were an early part of Japanese literary culture, and a value given aesthetic expression. Robert Borgen studies just one example from the life of the monk Jōjin (, 1011–1081) and remarks:\n\nHiroshi Minami, one of the foremost scholars of the genre, states in his survey:\n\nThe roots of the nihonjinron be traced back at least to the kokugaku (国学, \"national studies\") movement of the 18th century, with themes that are not dissimilar to those in the post-war nihonjinron.\n\nThe problem of Japanese identity in much of the early period is in terms of the local traditions and the powerful influence of Chinese culture, for example the revolt of the anti-Buddhist Mononobe and Nakatomi clans against the pro-Buddhist Soga clan, which had sponsored the introduction of not only Buddhist metaphysics but also Chinese statecraft into Japan in the 6th century.\n\nLater, Kitabatake Chikafusa (1293–1354) wrote his Jinnō Shōtōki (\"Chronicles of the Authentic Lineages of the Divine Emperors\") which defines Japan's superiority in terms of the divinity of its imperial line and the divinity of the nation itself (\"Shinkoku\"). The general drift of such works is to pull the abstract, universal language and thought of Japan's foreign models down to earth, to reframe it in Japanese conditions, among the illiterate population at large, and assert the special historical characteristics of Japan as opposed to the civilizations which had, until that time, endowed the country with the lineaments of a universalist culture.\n\nIn the 16th century European contacts with Japan gave rise to a considerable literature by travelers and foreign missionaries on the Japanese, their culture, behavior, and patterns of thinking. In turn this had some impact on Japanese self-images, when this material began to be read by many Japanese after the Meiji Restoration; and this tradition of cross-cultural discourse forms an important background component in the rise of the modern nihonjinron.\n\nKokugaku, beginning as a scholarly investigation into the philology of Japan's early classical literature, sought to recover and evaluate these texts, some of which were obscure and difficult to read, in order to appraise them positively and harvest them to determine and ascertain what were the original indigenous values of Japan before the introduction of Chinese civilization. Thus the exploration of early classical texts like the \"Kojiki\" and the \"Man'yōshū\" allowed scholars of Kokugaku, particularly the five great figures of Keichū (1640–1701), Kada no Azumamaro (1669–1736), Kamo no Mabuchi (1697–1769), Motoori Norinaga (1730–1801) and Hirata Atsutane (1776–1843) to explore Japan's cultural differences with China, locate their sources in high antiquity, and deploy the results in a programmatic attempt to define the uniqueness of Japan against a foreign civilization. These scholars worked independently, and reached different conclusions, but by the 19th century were grouped together by a neo-Kokugakuist named Konakamura to establish the earliness of Japanese self-awareness. Implicitly or otherwise, they advocated a return to these ostensibly pristine ethnic roots, which involved discarding the incrustations of those Chinese cultural beliefs, social rites and philosophical ideas that had exercised a political ascendancy for over a millennium within Japan and had deeply informed the neo-Confucian ideology of the Tokugawa regime itself.\n\nThe irony was that the intellectual techniques, textual methods and cultural strategies used by nativist scholars against Confucianism borrowed heavily from currents in both Chinese thought (Taoist, Confucian and Buddhist) and their Japanese offshoots. Motoori, the greatest nativist scholar, is deeply indebted, for instance, to the thought of Ogyū Sorai the most penetrating Confucian thinker of Tokugawa times. In similar wise, scholars detect in modern Japanese nationalism, of which the nihonjinron are the resonant if melodiously subdued, post-war echo, many features that derived from borrowings abroad, from the large resources of cultural nationalism mined in European countries during their own respective periods of nation-formation. Under the alias of assertions of difference, nationalisms, in Japan as elsewhere, borrow promiscuously from each other's conceptual hoards, and what may seem alien turns out often to be, once studied closely, merely an exotic variation on an all too familiar theme.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, under strong military and diplomatic pressure, and suffering from an internal crisis that led to the collapse of the Bakufu, Japan opened its ports, and subsequently the nation, to commerce with the outside world and reform that sought to respond vigorously to the challenges of modern industrial polities, as they were remarked on by Japanese observers in the United States and Europe. The preponderant place of China as model and cultural adversary in the cognitive models developed hitherto was occupied by the West. But, whereas Japan's traditional engagement with Chinese civilization was conducted in terms of a unilateral debate, now Japanese scholars and thinkers could read directly what Westerners, themselves fascinated by the 'exoticism' of Japanese culture, said and wrote of them. Japanese contact with, and responses to these emerging Western stereotypes, which reflected the superiority complex, condescension and imperial hauteur of the times, fed into Japanese debates on national identity. As Leslie Pincus puts it, speaking of a later phase:\n\nThere ensued an intense period of massive social and economic change, as, under the direction of a developmental elite, Japan moved from the closed world of centuries of Tokugawa rule (the so-called \"sakoku\" [鎖国] period) to Meiji Westernization, and, again in close conformity with the prevailing occidental paradigm, to imperialist adventurism with the growth of the colonialism. The Taishō period marked a slightly more 'liberal' turn, as the pendulum swung towards a renewed interest in the Western model (\"Japan must undergo a second birth, with America as its new mother and France as its father\"). With the crisis of 1929 and the concomitant depression of the 1930s, militarism gained the upper hand in this era of the 'dark valley' (\"kurai tanima\", 暗い谷間), and nationalistic ideologies prevailed over all attempts to keep alive the moderate traditions of liberal modernity.\n\nTotal economic, military and spiritual mobilization could not stave off defeat however, and slowly, under occupation, and then rapidly with its reasserted independence, Japan enjoyed a decades-long resurgence as global industrial and economic powerhouse until the crisis of the 1990s. The cultural patterns over this century long trajectory is one of a continuous oscillation between models of pronounced Westernization and traditionalist autarky. Between the two alternatives, attempts were frequently made to mediate a conciliatory third way which would combine the best of both worlds (\"wakon yōsai\", (和魂洋才): \"Japanese spirit and Western techniques\".\n\nThe frequency of these chronic transitional upheavals engendered a remarkable intensity of debate about national directions and identity (\"kokuminsei\", 国民性/\"minzokusei\", 民族性), whose complexity over time renders a synthetic judgment or bird's-eye view of the literature in question rather difficult. A major controversy surrounds the question regarding the affiliation of the post-war nihonjinron theories with the prewar conceptualization of Japanese cultural uniqueness. To what degree, that is, are these meditations under democracy on Japanese uniqueness innocent reflections of a popular search for identity, and in what measure, if any, do they pick up from the instrumental ideology of Japaneseness developed by government and nationalists in the prewar period to harness the energies of the nation towards industrialization and global imperium?\n\nThe questions are rendered more complex by the fact that in the early post-war period, the restoration of a 'healthy nationalism' was by no means something exclusive to right-wing cultural thinkers. An intense debate over the necessity to develop ideal, positive forms of national consciousness, regarded as a healthy civic identity, figures prominently in the early writings of Maruyama Masao, who called for a healthy \"national civic consciousness\" (\"kokuminshugi\", 国民主義), and in the prolific debates of members of the Japanese Historical Science Association (rekiken, 歴研) who preferred to speak of 'ethnic national consciousness'(\"minzokushigi\", 民族主義). These debates ranged from liberal center-left critics to radical Marxist historians.\n\nSome scholars cite the destruction of many Japanese national symbols and the psychological blow of defeat at the end of World War II as one source of nihonjinron's enduring popularity, although it is not a uniquely 20th century phenomenon. In fact the genre is simply the Japanese reflex of cultural nationalism, which is a property of all modern nations. The trend of the tone of nihonjinron argument is often reflective of the Japanese society at the time. Peter Dale, covering the period analysed by the Nomura survey, distinguished three major phrases in the development of post-war \"nihonjinron\" discourse:\n\n\nTamotsu Aoki subsequently finessed the pattern by distinguishing four major phases in the post war identity discourse.\n\nIn Dale's proposal, this drift from negative uniqueness to positive evaluation of uniqueness is a cyclical trend, since he believes the same pattern can be detected in the literature on identity for the period from 1867 to 1945, from early Meiji times down to the end of World War Two. Nihonjinron, in Dale's view, recycle prewar Japanese nationalist rhetoric, and betray similar ends. For Aoki, contrariwise, they are natural movements in a national temper which seeks, as has been the case with other nations, its own distinctive path of cultural autonomy and social organization as Japan adapts itself to the global world order forged by the West.\n\nDuring the early post-war period, most of nihonjinron discourses discussed the uniqueness of the Japanese in a rather negative, critical light. The elements of feudalism reminiscent of the Imperial Japan were all castigated as major obstacles to Japan's reestablishment as a new democratic nation. Scholars such as Hisao Ōtsuka (), a Weberian sociologist, judged Japan with the measure of rational individualism and liberal democracy that were considered ideals in the U.S. and Western European nations back then. By the 1970s, however, with Japan enjoying a remarkable economic boom, Ōtsuka began to consider the 'feudal residues' in a positive light, as a badge of Japan's distinctive difference from the West (Ōtsuka, Kawashima, Doi 1976 passim). Nihonjinron books written during the period of high economic growth up to the bubble burst in the early 1990s, in contrast, argued various unique features of the Japanese as more positive features.\n\n\nScholars such as Peter N. Dale (1986), Harumi Befu (1987), and Kosaku Yoshino (1992) view nihonjinron more critically, identifying it as a tool for enforcing social and political conformity. Dale, for example, characterizes nihonjinron as follows:\n\nThe emphasis on ingroup unity in nihonjinron writings, and its popularization during Japan's period of military expansion at the turn of the 20th century, has led many Western critics to brand it a form of ethnocentric nationalism. Karel van Wolferen echoes this assessment, noting that:\n\n\n\n• Amino, Yoshihiko (網野善彦). 1978 Muen, kugai, raku: Nihon chūsei no jiyū to heiwa (無縁・公界・楽. 日本中世の自由と平和:Muen, kugai, raku: Peace and freedom in medieval Japan), Tokyo, Heibonsha\n\n• Aoki Tamotsu (青木保) Bunka no hiteisei 1988 (文化の否定性) Tokyo, Chūō Kōronsha\n\n• Aoki, Tamotsu (青木保) 1990. 'Nihonbunkaron' no Hen'yō (「日本文化論」の変容, Phases of Theories of Japanese Culture in transition). Tokyo, Japan: Chūō Kōron Shinsha.\n\n• Befu, Harumi (別府春海) 1987 Ideorogī toshite no nihonbunkaron (イデオロギーとしての日本人論, Nihonjinron as an ideology). Tokyo, Japan: Shisō no Kagakusha.\n\n• Benedict, Ruth. 1946. The Chrysanthemum and the Sword : Patterns of Japanese Culture. Boston, Houghton Mifflin.\n\n• Benesch, Oleg. \"Inventing the Way of the Samurai: Nationalism, Internationalism, and Bushido in Modern Japan.\" Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2014.\n\n• Berque, Augustin. 1986 Le sauvage et l'artifice: Les Japonais devant la nature. Paris, Gallimard.\n\n• Burns, Susan L., 2003 Before the Nation - Kokugaku and the Imagining of Community in Early Modern Japan, Duke University Press, Durham, London.\n\n• Dale, Peter N. 1986. The Myth of Japanese Uniqueness Oxford, London. Nissan Institute, Croom Helm.\n\n• Dale, Peter N. 1994 'Nipponologies (Nihon-ron. Nihon-shugi' in Augustin Berque (ed.) Dictionnaire de la civilisation japonaise. Hazan, Paris pp. 355–6.\n\n• Gayle, Curtis Anderson, 2003 Marxist History and Postwar Japanese Nationalism, RoutledgeCurzon, London, New York\n\n• Gill, Robin D 1985 Nihonjinron Tanken (日本人論探険) Tokyo, TBS Britannica.\n\n• Gill, Robin D. 1984Omoshiro Hikaku-bunka-kō, (おもしろ比較文化考) Tokyo, Kirihara Shoten.\n\n• Gill, Robin D. 1985 Han-nihonjinron ((反日本人論)) Tokyo, Kōsakusha.\n\n• Hijiya-Kirschnereit, Irmela 1988 Das Ende der Exotik Frankfurt am Main, Suhrkamp\n\n• Kawamura, Nozomu (河村望) 1982 Nihonbunkaron no Shûhen (日本文化論の周辺, The Ambiance of Japanese Culture Theory), Tokyo: Ningen no Kagakusha\n\n• Mazzei, Franco, 1997. Japanese Particularism and the Crisis of Western Modernity, Ca' Foscari University of Venice.\n\n• Miller, Roy Andrew 1982 Japan’s Modern Myth: The Language and Beyond, New York and Tokyo: Weatherhill.\n\n• Minami Hiroshi (南博) 1980 Nihonjinron no keifu (日本人論の系譜) Tokyo, Kōdansha.\n\n• Mouer, Ross & Sugimoto, Yoshio, Images of Japanese Society, London: Routledge, 1986\n\n• Nomura Research Institute. 1979. Sengo Nihonjinron Nenpyō (戦後日本人論年表, Chronology of post-war Nihonjinron). Tokyo, Japan: Nomura Research Institute.\n\n• Sugimoto Yoshio (杉本良夫) 1993 Nihonjin o yameru hōhō, Tokyo, Chikuma Bunko.\n\n• Sugimoto, Yoshio & Ross Mouer (eds.) 1989 Constructs for Understanding Japan, Kegan Paul International, London and New York.\n\n• Sugimoto, Yoshio (杉本良夫) and Mouer, Ross.(eds.) 1982 Nihonjinron ni kansuru 12 shô (日本人論に関する12章) Tokyo, Gakuyō Shobō\n\n• Sugimoto, Yoshio (杉本良夫)1983 Chō-kanri rettô Nippon (超管理ニッボン, Nippon. The Hyper-Control Archipelago) Tokyo, Kōbunsha.\n\n• Sugimoto, Yoshio and Mouer, Ross. 1982 Nihonjin wa 「Nihonteki」ka (日本人は「日本的」か) Tokyo, Tōyō Keizai Shinpōsha\n\n• Sugimoto, Yoshio and Mouer, Ross. 1995. Nihonjinron no Hōteishiki (日本人論の方程式, the Equation of Nihonjinron). Tokyo, Japan: Chikuma Shobō\n\n• Van Wolferen, Karel. 1989. The Enigma of Japanese power. Westminster, MD: Knopf.\n\n• Yoshino, Kosaku. 1992. Cultural Nationalism in Contemporary Japan: A Sociological Enquiry. London, UK: Routledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "48746276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48746276", "title": "Nonprofit Marketplace Initiative", "text": "Nonprofit Marketplace Initiative\n\nThe Nonprofit Marketplace Initiative (NMI) was an initiative of the Effective Philanthropy Group of the Hewlett Foundation launched in 2006. Its closure was announced in the \"Chronicle of Philanthropy\" in April 2014.\n\nThe NMI was started by the Effective Philanthropy Group at the Hewlett Foundation in 2006 with the goal that \"by 2015, ten percent of individual philanthropic donations in the US (or $20 billion), would be influenced by meaningful, high-quality information about nonprofit organizations’ performance.\" Jacob Harold was the program officer responsible, and the Hewlett Foundation at the time was headed by Paul Brest.\n\nThe NMI funded a number of charity evaluators including:\n\n\nHolden Karnofsky, co-founder and co-executive director of GiveWell, expressed gratitude to the NMI, saying that NMI's support of the organization was crucial in its first few years, when it was relatively unknown and the subject of unfavorable controversies. He also praised the NMI for their support despite differences in strategy and approach, and said that while the NMI often encouraged them to spread a wider net and collaborate more with other NMI grantees, they were never inappropriately pressured.\n\nKen Berger, President of Charity Navigator, wrote a letter upon the closure of the NMI thanking the Hewlett Foundation for their generous support of Charity Navigator through their transition to version 3.0 of their product. Berger identified the Hewlett Foundation as the single biggest overall supporter of Charity Navigator.\n\nIn April 2014, an article the \"Chronicle of Philanthropy\" announced that the Hewlett Foundation was ending the Nonprofit Marketplace Initiative. The Hewlett Foundation's decision was based on an internal re-evaluation of the project, motivated by two external pieces of information:\n\n\nThe Hewlett Foundation also had some significant personnel changes over the time period: Jacob Harold left the Hewlett Foundation for GuideStar and was replaced by Lindsay Louise, while Paul Brest was replaced by Larry Kramer as President of the Hewlett Foundation. They said that these changes made it more logical for them to re-evaluate the strategy, but was not the reason for ending the program, since the external studies and evaluations that would lead to the program's cosure had been initiated under the previous staff.\n\nThe Hewlett Foundation also clarified that even though they had failed to met their own goals with the NMI, the organizations they funded, such as GiveWell, Charity Navigator, and GuideStar, had done a great job at meeting \"those organization's\" goals.\n\nResponding to the closure decision, Holden Karnofsky of GiveWell wrote that while the decision to shut down the program may have been the right one, GiveWell did not agree with the stated reasons for closure. Karnofsky argued that GiveWell's money moved in the years to come would alone more than justify the grand total of 12 million dollars spent on the NMI. This would be validated in the years to come: in 2014, GiveWell moved $13.0 million to its top charities from donors \"excluding\" Good Ventures, a multi-billion dollar foundation it works closely with.\n\nJacob Harold, the program officer formerly responsible for NMI, who had since left for GuideStar, responded to Karnofsky's post, noting that the NMI's goals of reaching a large population were still worthwhile, and that its main problem may have been that it was too early for its time. Harold noted that he hoped to make the vision the NMI sought a reality through his work for GuideStar. He emphasized the importance of both quality and quantity, noting that GiveWell and the effective altruism movement it was part of might be too neglectful of the quantity goals that the NMI had.\n"}
{"id": "1410580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410580", "title": "Paul Horwich", "text": "Paul Horwich\n\nPaul Horwich (born 1947) is a British analytic philosopher at New York University, noted for his contributions to philosophy of science, philosophy of physics, the philosophy of language (especially truth, and meaning) and the interpretation of Wittgenstein's later philosophy. \n\nHorwich earned his PhD from Cornell University, where his thesis advisor was Richard Boyd (title of the doctoral thesis: \"The Metric and Topology of Time\"). He has previously taught at MIT, University College London, and CUNY Graduate Center.\n\nIn \"Truth\" (1990), Horwich presented a detailed defence of the \"minimalistic\" variant of the deflationary theory of truth. He is opposed to appealing to reference and truth to explicate meaning, and so has defended a naturalistic \"use theory\" of meaning in his book \"Meaning\". Other concepts he has advanced are a probabilistic account of scientific methodology and a unified explanation of temporally asymmetric phenomena.\n\nIn the context of philosophical speculations about time travel, Horwich coined the term autofanticide for a variant of the grandfather paradox, in which a person goes back in time and deliberately or inadvertently kills his or her infant self.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1329844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1329844", "title": "Peter Lawler (academic)", "text": "Peter Lawler (academic)\n\nPeter Augustine Lawler (July 30, 1951May 23, 2017) was Dana Professor of Government at Berry College. He taught courses in political philosophy and American politics. He was a 1973 graduate of Allentown College and earned a PhD from the University of Virginia.\n\nHe was executive editor of the quarterly journal \"Perspectives on Political Science\" and was a chairman of the politics and literature section of the American Political Science Association. He also served on the editorial board of the new bilingual critical edition of Alexis de Tocqueville's \"Democracy in America\". Lawler also served on the editorial boards of several journals.\n\nHe wrote or edited 15 books. His \"Modern and American Dignity\" was the reason he was chosen the 2010 Georgia Author of the Year. His books--\"Postmodernism Rightly Understood\", \"Aliens in America\", \"Stuck with Virtue\", and \"Homeless and at Home in America\"—have been widely and positively reviewed. His \"American Political Rhetoric\" (edited with Robert Schaefer, seventh edition) is used in introductory American government courses at a sizeable number of colleges and universities. He was the 2007 winner of the Weaver Prize for Scholarly Excellence in promoting human dignity to a broad audience.\n\nLawler has spoken at roughly a hundred American colleges and universities and published well over two hundred articles, chapters, and reviews in a wide variety of venues. Over the last year alone, he gave nearly 30 lectures at various institutions and conferences. He was the 2015 Ross Lence Master Teacher at Residence at the Honors College at the University of Houston.\n\nLawler wrote broadly from a Catholic intellectual tradition that emphasizes the importance of limits on unfettered personal autonomy in shaping well-lived lives, as well as the centrality of the love of truth in making sense of the human experience and knowing \"who we are and what we are supposed to do.\" Lawler argued that moral anthropology suggests the possibility of God's existence and love. His influences include both Catholics such as Augustine, Pierre Manent, Thomas Aquinas, Pascal, Flannery O'Connor, Tocqueville and Walker Percy, as well as non-Catholic thinkers (especially Leo Strauss).\n\nIn 2004, Lawler was appointed to President Bush's Council on Bioethics. He served until the council was terminated by President Obama in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Lawler (with Marc Guerra of Assumption College) received a major grant from the Science of Virtues project at the University of Chicago for a series of path-breaking conferences at Berry College on the theme of \"Stuck with Virtue\". This conferences has generated several important publications, including \"A Political Companion to Walker Percy\" (edited with Brian Smith) and \"Descartes, Locke, Darwin, and the Science of Modern Virtue\".\n\nLawler also became a popular and influential blogger, at both \"Rightly Understood\" at \"Big Think\" and \"Postmodern Conservative,\" originally at \"First Things\" and then at \"National Review Online\". His posts and short essays are often and widely reprinted. The first volume of his best short essays -- \"Allergic to Crazy\"—has been published by St. Augustine's Press. And his \"American Heresies and Higher Education\" is forthcoming in 2016.\n\nHe was the son of Patricia Ann Fullerton Lawler and Thomas Comerford Lawler, the nephew of Ronald David Lawler, OFMCap, and the brother of Thomas Aquin \"Quin\" Lawler and Gregory Francis Lawler.\n\nHis father worked for the Central Intelligence Agency from 1951 to 1977, and also worked in patristics, serving as a co-editor, from 1964 to 1991, of the Ancient Christian Writers series published first by Newman Press, and then by Paulist Press. He likewise translated \"Saint Augustine: Sermons for Christmas and Epiphany\", and \"The Letters of Saint Jerome\" for that series. With his brother, Father Roland, and the future cardinal, Donald Wuerl, he wrote an adult catechism, \"The Teaching of Christ\".\n\nPeter Augustine Lawler was survived by his brothers, his wife, Rita Lawler, his daughter, Catherine Lawler Jackson, and his grandchildren, Henry Augustus Jackson and Molly Jackson.\n\n"}
{"id": "5461167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461167", "title": "Pirsig's Metaphysics of Quality", "text": "Pirsig's Metaphysics of Quality\n\nThe Metaphysics of Quality (MoQ) is a theory of reality introduced in Robert Pirsig's philosophical novel, \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" (1974) and expanded in \"\" (1991). The MoQ incorporates facets of Sophism, East Asian philosophy, pragmatism, the work of F. S. C. Northrop, and indigenous American philosophy. Pirsig argues that the MoQ is a better lens through which to view reality than the subjective/objective mindset that Pirsig attributes to Aristotle. The book \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" references the Sanskrit doctrine of Tat Tvam Asi or \"Thou art that\" which asserts an existential monism as opposed to the subject–object dualism.\n\nThe Metaphysics of Quality originated with Pirsig's college studies as a biochemistry student at the University of Minnesota. He describes in \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\" that as he studied, he found the number of rational hypotheses for any given phenomenon appeared to be unlimited. It seemed to him this would seriously undermine the validity of the scientific method. His studies began to suffer as he pondered the question and eventually he was expelled from the university.\n\nAfter spending some time in Korea as a soldier, Pirsig concluded that Oriental philosophy was a better place to search for ultimate answers. On his return home from Korea, Pirsig read F. S. C. Northrop's book \"The Meeting of East and West\" which related Western culture to the culture of East Asia in a systematic way. In 1950, Pirsig continued his philosophical studies at Banaras Hindu University, where he came across the Sanskrit doctrine of \"Tat Tvam Asi\" —in his words, \"Thou art that, which asserts that everything you think you are (Subjective), and everything you think you perceive (Objective), are undivided. To fully realize this lack of division is to become enlightened.\" The nature of mystical experience plays an underlying role throughout his work.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Pirsig taught rhetoric at Montana State College – Bozeman and, with the encouragement of an older colleague, decided to explore what exactly was meant by the term \"quality\". He assigned his students the task of defining the word. This, coupled with a Native American Church peyote ceremony he attended with an anthropologist friend, James Verne Dusenberry, led Pirsig into what he called \"a mushroom cloud of thought.\" Pirsig began developing his ideas about quality in his first book, \"Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance\", and expanded and codified his ideas into the MoQ in \"Lila\".\n\n\"Quality,\" or \"value,\" as described by Pirsig, cannot be defined because it empirically precedes any intellectual construction of it, namely due to the fact that quality (as Pirsig explicitly defines it) exists always as a perceptual experience before it is ever thought of descriptively or academically. Quality is the \"knife-edge\" of experience, found only in the present, known or at least potentially accessible to all of \"us\" (cf. Plato's \"Phaedrus\", 258d). Equating it with the Tao, Pirsig postulates that Quality is the fundamental force in the universe stimulating everything from atoms to animals to evolve and incorporate ever greater levels of Quality. According to the MoQ, everything (including ideas, and matter) is a product and a result of Quality.\n\nThe MoQ maintains that quality itself is undefinable (Tao), but to better understand it, Pirsig breaks quality down into two (\"knife-edge\") forms: static quality patterns (patterned) and dynamic quality (unpatterned). The four patterns of static value as well as dynamic quality account exhaustively for all of (\"knife-edged\") reality. As the initial (cutting edge) dynamic quality becomes habituated, it turns into static patterns (viz. data, expectations). It is important to note that Pirsig is not proposing a duality: quality is one, \"every last bit of it\", yet manifests itself differently. Rather than dualism, this manifestation of quality in terms of dynamic and static aspects represents a dialectical monism.\n\nDynamic quality cannot be defined. It can only be understood intellectually through the use of analogy. It can be described as the force of change in the universe; when an aspect of quality becomes habitual or customary, it becomes static. Pirsig calls dynamic quality \"the pre-intellectual cutting edge of reality\" because it can be recognized before it can be conceptualized. This is why the dynamic beauty of a piece of music can be recognized before a static analysis explaining why the music is beautiful can be constructed.\n\nPirsig defines static quality as everything which can be defined. Everything found in a dictionary, for instance, is static quality. These static forms, if they have enough high or low quality, are given names and are interchanged with other \"people\", building the base of knowledge for a culture. So some cultures divide between things other cultures perceive as equal (Pirsig gave as example the sounds of the Indian syllables \"dha\" and \"da,\" which are absolutely equal to western ears), and some cultures haven't any words for a specific meaning at all (for example, Spanish has no word for \"accountability\"). Pirsig divides static quality into inorganic, biological, social, and intellectual patterns, in ascending order of morality. \nPirsig describes evolution as the moral progression of these patterns of value. For example, a biological pattern overcoming an inorganic pattern (e.g. bird flight which overcomes gravity) is a moral thing because a biological pattern is a higher form of evolution. Likewise, an intellectual pattern of value overcoming a social one (e.g. civil rights) is a moral development because intellect is a higher form of evolution than society. Therefore, decisions about one's conduct during any given day can be made using the Metaphysics of Quality. It is important to note that Pirsig is not proposing criticism or responsibility, but acceptance, and pure absorption: \"When he wrote it he felt momentary fright and was about to strike out the words \"All of it. Every last bit of it.\" Madness there. I think he saw it. But he couldn’t see any logical reason to strike these words out and it was too late now for faintheartedness. He ignored his warning and let the words stand.\"-ZMM, Ch.20 \n\n\"Good is a noun. That was it. That was what Phaedrus had been looking for. That was the homer, over the fence, that ended the ball game. Good as a noun rather than as an adjective is all the Metaphysics of Quality is about. Of course, the ultimate Quality isn't a noun or an adjective or anything else definable, but if you had to reduce the whole Metaphysics of Quality to a single sentence, that would be it.\"-Lila, The End\n\n\"The language we've inherited confuses this. We say \"my\" body and \"your\" body and \"his\" body and \"her\" body, but it isn't that way. … This Cartesian \"Me,\" this autonomous little homunculus who sits behind our eyeballs looking out through them in order to pass judgment on the affairs of the world, is just completely ridiculous. This self-appointed little editor of reality is just an impossible fiction that collapses the moment one examines it.\"-ZMM, Ch.15\n\n\"Another immoral way of killing the static patterns is to pass the patterns to someone else, in what Phaedrus called a 'karma dump.' ... If you take all this karmic garbage and make yourself feel better by passing it on to others that's normal. That's the way the world works. But if you manage to absorb it and not pass [editor's emboldening] it on, that's the highest moral conduct of all.\"-Lila, Ch.32\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51138242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51138242", "title": "Robyn Carston", "text": "Robyn Carston\n\nRobyn Anne Carston, is a New Zealand linguist and academic, who specialises in pragmatics, semantics, and the philosophy of language. Since 2005, she has been Professor of Linguistics at University College London.\n\nCarston was born in New Zealand. She studied English Literature at the University of Canterbury, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) 1975. She then studied for an honours degree in linguistics at Victoria University of Wellington, graduating with a BA (Hons) degree in 1976. She moved to England to study at University College London (UCL), graduating with a Master of Arts (MA) in Phonetics and Linguistics in 1980. She remained at UCL to undertake postgraduate research under the supervision of Deirdre Wilson. She completed her Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in 1986. Her doctoral thesis was titled \"Pragmatics and the explicit/implicit distinction\".\n\nCarston has taught linguistics at University College London since 1983. Since January 1999, she has been a member of the editorial board of the peer reviewed journal \"Mind & Language\". In January 2005, she was appointed Professor of Linguistics. From 2007 to 2017, she was additionally a senior researcher at the Centre for the Study of Mind in Nature, University of Oslo. Since August 2017, she has been President of the European Society for Philosophy and Psychology.\n\nIn July 2016, Carston was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the UK's national academy for the humanities and the social sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "17805317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805317", "title": "Salvator Tongiorgi", "text": "Salvator Tongiorgi\n\nSalvator Tongiorgi (25 December 1820 – 12 November 1865) was an Italian Jesuit philosopher and theologian.\n\nBorn in Rome, Tongiorgi entered the Society of Jesus at the age of seventeen. After the usual noviceship, literary and philosophical studies, a half-decade was spent in teaching rhetoric at Reggio Emilia and humanities at Forlì. Then four years were passed in the study of theology, under professors such as Giovanni Perrone and Carlo Passaglia.\n\nImmediately after this, in 1853, the young priest was assigned to the chair of philosophy in the Roman College, and there during twelve years distinguished himself as a teacher and author. Within a few days of his forty-fourth birthday he was appointed assistant to the provincial of the Roman Province; but his health gave way before a year had elapsed.\n\nTongiorgi wrote a well-known course of philosophy, \"Institutiones philosophicae\", which he published in three volumes at Rome in 1861 and at Brussels in 1862. Nine editions appeared during the next eighteen years, some of them modified by Claudio Ranieri. A compendium of the same work and a separate volume on ethics also came from his pen. All his works were used as textbooks for college or seminary.\n\nOn some of the mooted questions in philosophy the author departed from the scholastic tradition, rejecting the Peripatetic theory of matter and form, denying the real distinction between accidents and substance, and claiming that mere resultants of mechanical and chemical forces could produce the life-activity seen in the vegetable world. These doctrines were not widely accepted; yet they stimulated neo-Scholasticism to make better use of the researches carried on in the physical sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28545", "title": "Self-reference", "text": "Self-reference\n\nSelf-reference occurs in natural or formal languages when a sentence, idea or formula refers to itself. The reference may be expressed either directly—through some intermediate sentence or formula—or by means of some encoding. In philosophy, it also refers to the ability of a subject to speak of or refer to itself: to have the kind of thought expressed by the first person nominative singular pronoun, the word \"I\" in English.\n\nSelf-reference is studied and has applications in mathematics, philosophy, computer programming, and linguistics. Self-referential statements are sometimes paradoxical, and can also be considered recursive.\n\nIn classical philosophy, paradoxes were created by self-referential concepts such as the omnipotence paradox of asking if it was possible for a being to exist so powerful that it could create a stone that it could not lift. The Epimenides paradox, 'All Cretans are liars' when uttered by an ancient Greek Cretan was one of the first recorded versions. Contemporary philosophy sometimes employs the same technique to demonstrate that a supposed concept is meaningless or ill-defined.\n\nIn mathematics and computability theory, self-reference (also known as Impredicativity) is the key concept in proving limitations of many systems. Gödel's theorem uses it to show that no formal consistent system of mathematics can ever contain all possible mathematical truths, because it cannot prove some truths about its own structure. The halting problem equivalent, in computation theory, shows that there is always some task that a computer cannot perform, namely reasoning about itself. These proofs relate to a long tradition of mathematical paradoxes such as Russell's paradox and Berry's paradox, and ultimately to classical philosophical paradoxes.\n\nIn game theory undefined behaviors can occur where two players must model each other's mental states and behaviors, leading to infinite regress.\n\nIn computer programming, self-reference occurs in reflection, where a program can read or modify its own instructions like any other data. Numerous programming languages support reflection to some extent with varying degrees of expressiveness. Additionally, self-reference is seen in recursion (related to the mathematical recurrence relation) in functional programming, where a code structure refers back to itself during computation. 'Taming' self-reference from potentially paradoxical concepts into well-behaved recursions has been one of the great successes of computer science, and is now used routinely in, for example, writing compilers using the 'meta-language' ML. Using a compiler to compile itself is known as bootstrapping. Self-modifying code is possible to write (programs which operate on themselves), both with assembler and with functional languages such as Lisp, but is generally discouraged in real-world programming. Computing hardware makes fundamental use of self-reference in flip-flops, the basic units of digital memory, which convert potentially paradoxical logical self-relations into memory by expanding their terms over time. Thinking in terms of self-reference is a pervasive part of programmer culture, with many programs and acronyms named self-referentially as a form of humor, such as GNU ('Gnu's not Unix') and PINE ('Pine is not Elm'). The GNU Hurd is named for a pair of mutually self-referential acronyms.\n\nTupper's self-referential formula is a mathematical curiosity which plots an image of its own formula.\n\nThe biology of self-replication is self-referential, as embodied by DNA and RNA replication mechanisms. Models of self-replication are found in the computational Game of life, and have inspired engineering systems such as the RepRap self-replicating 3d printer.\n\nSelf-reference occurs in literature and film when an author refers to his or her own work in the context of the work itself. Examples include Cervantes's \"Don Quixote\", Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"The Tempest\" and \"Twelfth Night\", Denis Diderot's \"Jacques le fataliste et son maître\", Italo Calvino's \"If on a winter's night a traveler\", many stories by Nikolai Gogol, \"Lost in the Funhouse\" by John Barth, Luigi Pirandello's \"Six Characters in Search of an Author\" and Federico Fellini's \"8½\". Perhaps the earliest example is in Homer's Iliad, where Helen of Troy laments: \"for generations still unborn/we will live in song\" (appearing in the song itself).\n\nSelf-reference in art is closely related to the concepts of breaking the fourth wall and meta-reference, which often involve self-reference. The short stories of Jorge Luis Borges play with self-reference and related paradoxes in many ways. Samuel Beckett's Krapp's Last Tape consists entirely of the protagonist listening to and making recordings of himself, mostly about other recordings. During the 1990s and 2000s filmic self-reference was a popular part of the rubber reality movement, notably in Charlie Kaufman's films Being John Malkovich and Adaptation, the latter pushing the concept arguably to its breaking point as it attempts to portray its own creation.\n\nVarious creation myths invoke self-reference to solve the problem of what created the creator. For example the Egyptian creation myth has a god swallowing his own semen to create himself. Ouroboros is a mythical dragon which eats itself.\n\nThe surrealist painter René Magritte is famous for his self-referential works. His painting \"The Treachery of Images\", includes the words \"this is not a pipe\", the truth of which depends entirely on whether the word \"ceci\" (in English, \"this\") refers to the pipe depicted—or to the painting or the word or sentence itself. M.C. Escher's art also contains many self-referential concepts such as hands drawing themselves.\n\nA word that describes itself is called an \"autological word\" (or \"autonym\"). This generally applies to adjectives, for example sesquipedalian (i.e. \"sesquipedalian\" is a sesquipedalian word), but can also apply to other parts of speech, such as TLA, as a three-letter abbreviation for \"three-letter abbreviation\".\n\nA sentence which inventories its own letters and punctuation marks is called an autogram.\n\nThere is a special case of meta-sentence in which the content of the sentence in the metalanguage and the content of the sentence in the object language are the same. Such a sentence is referring to itself. However some meta-sentences of this type can lead to paradoxes. \"This is a sentence.\" can be considered to be a self-referential meta-sentence which is obviously true. However \"This sentence is false\" is a meta-sentence which leads to a self-referential paradox. Such sentences can lead to problems, for example, in law, where statements bringing laws into existence can contradict one another or themselves. Kurt Gödel claimed to have found such a paradox in the US constitution at his citizenship ceremony.\n\nSelf-reference occasionally occurs in the media when it is required to write about itself, for example the BBC reporting on job cuts at the BBC. Notable encyclopedias may be required to feature articles about themselves, such as Wikipedia's article on Wikipedia.\n\nFumblerules are a list of rules of good grammar and writing, demonstrated through sentences that violate those very rules, such as \"Avoid cliches like the plague\" and \"Don't use no double negatives\". The term was coined in a published list of such rules by William Safire.\n\nSeveral academic disciplines are sometime required to study themselves in forms of self-reference, for example historiography (or \"meta-history\") is history's study of its own past; meta-sociology occurs when sociologists study the power structures in their own academic institutions; and meta-mathematics is the study of mathematics itself as a formal system, using its own methods. In law, self-reference may become an issue when laws are required to regulate the making of new laws, especially around constitutional issues. (The game of nomic begins as a model of this process.) The prefix \"meta\" is often used to denote this type of self-reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34610559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34610559", "title": "Shiva Advaita", "text": "Shiva Advaita\n\nShiva Advaita (Devanagari:शिवाद्वैत, , ), also called as or Shaivite \"qualified nondualism\" is a Shaivite school of philosophy from Southern India.\n"}
{"id": "10324227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10324227", "title": "Soul dualism", "text": "Soul dualism\n\nSoul dualism or multiple souls is a range of beliefs that a person has two or more kinds of souls. In many cases, one of the souls is associated with body functions (\"body soul\") and the other one can leave the body (\"free soul\" or \"wandering soul\"). Sometimes the plethora of soul types can be even more complex. Sometimes, a shaman's \"free soul\" may be held to be able to undertake a spirit journey.\n\nThe belief in soul dualism found throughout most Austronesian shamanistic traditions. The reconstructed Proto-Austronesian word for the \"body soul\" is \"*nawa\" (\"breath\", \"life\", or \"vital spirit\"). It is located somewhere in the abdominal cavity, often in the liver or the heart (Proto-Austronesian \"*qaCay\"). The \"free soul\" is located in the head. Its names are usually derived from Proto-Austronesian \"*qaNiCu\" (\"ghost\", \"spirit [of the dead]\"), which also apply to other non-human nature spirits. The \"free soul\" is also referred to in names that literally mean \"twin\" or \"double\", from Proto-Austronesian \"*duSa\" (\"two\"). A virtuous person is said to be one whose souls are in harmony with each other, while an evil person is one whose souls are in conflict.\n\nThe \"free soul\" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during sleep, trance-like states, delirium, insanity, and death. The duality is also seen in the healing traditions of Austronesian shamans, where illnesses are regarded as a \"soul loss\" and thus to heal the sick, one must \"return\" the \"free soul\" (which may have been stolen by an evil spirit or got lost in the spirit world) into the body. If the \"free soul\" can not be returned, the afflicted person dies or goes permanently insane.\n\nIn some ethnic groups, there can also be more than two souls. Like among the Tagbanwa people, where a person is said to have six souls - the \"free soul\" (which is regarded as the \"true\" soul) and five secondary souls with various functions.\n\nTraditional Chinese culture differentiates two \"hun\" and \"po\" spirits or souls, which correlate with \"yang\" and \"yin\" respectively. Within this soul dualism, every human has both an ethereal \"hun\" \"spiritual soul; spirit; mood\" that leaves the body after death and a substantive \"po\" \"physical soul; spirit; vigor\" that remains with the corpse. Chinese traditions differ over the number of \"hun\" and \"po\" souls in a person, for example, Daoism has the \"sanhunqipo\" 三魂七魄 \"three \"hun\" and seven \"po\"\".\n\nKalbo Inuit groups believe that a person has more than one type of soul. One is associated with respiration, the other can accompany the body as a shadow. Soul concepts of different Inuit groups are diverse; they are not alike. In some cases, it is connected to shamanistic beliefs among the various Inuit groups. Also Caribou Inuit groups believed in several types of souls.\n\nThe concept of more kinds of souls can be found also at several Finno-Ugric peoples. See notion of shadow-soul (being able to depart freely the body), e.g. in Hungarian folk beliefs. The concept of a dualistic shadow-soul called \"itse\", related to the Hungarian conception, is also part of Finnish and general Baltic-Finnic folklore. The Estonian soul concept has been approached by several authors, some of them using rather complex frameworks (online ).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2412074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412074", "title": "The Reason of State", "text": "The Reason of State\n\nThe Reason of State (Italian: Della Ragion di Stato) is a work of political philosophy by Italian Jesuit Giovanni Botero. Reason of state denotes a way of thinking about government that emerges at the end of the fifteenth century and remains prevalent until the eighteenth century. It refers to the right of rulers to act in ways that go counter to the dictates of both natural and positive law with the aim of acquiring, preserving, and augmenting the dominion of the state. It was first published in Venice in 1589, and is most notable for criticizing methods of statecraft associated with Niccolò Machiavelli and presenting economics as an aspect of politics. \n"}
{"id": "37720487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37720487", "title": "The Young Hegelians and Karl Marx", "text": "The Young Hegelians and Karl Marx\n\nThe Young Hegelians and Karl Marx is a 1969 book by the political scientist David McLellan.\n\nMcLellan examines the transformations of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's thought by the Young Hegelians, and the influence of their social and political views on Karl Marx.\n"}
{"id": "98349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98349", "title": "Walter Annenberg", "text": "Walter Annenberg\n\nWalter Hubert Annenberg (March 13, 1908 – October 1, 2002) was an American businessman, investor, philanthropist, and diplomat. Annenberg owned and operated Triangle Publications, which included ownership of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"TV Guide\", the \"Daily Racing Form\" and \"Seventeen\" magazine. He was appointed by President Richard Nixon as United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom, where he served from 1969 to 1974.\n\nAnnenberg was born in Milwaukee and raised in New York. He attended the Wharton School, the business school at the University of Pennsylvania, though he dropped out to pursue stock investing. His father, Moses Annenberg, was convicted of tax evasion and incarcerated for two years. During that time, and following his father's death in 1942, Annenberg took control of the \"Inquirer,\" expanding its influence and his own. He built up his family's magazine business with great success, extending it into parts of the media industry such as radio and television.\n\nDuring his tenure as U.S. Ambassador to the United Kingdom, he developed a close friendship with Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the Royal family. After initial perceived missteps, he came to be admired for his dedicated work ethic, his wife's lavish entertaining, and personal gifts to support patriotic British causes, such as the restoration of St. Paul's Cathedral in London. He also paid for the renovation of Winfield House, the American ambassador's residence.\n\nIn his later years, Annenberg became one of the most prominent philanthropists in the United States. He established the Annenberg Foundation in 1988 and personally gave over $2 billion to educational establishments and art galleries, including both the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania and USC Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism in Los Angeles. At Sunnylands, his 220-acre estate near Palm Springs, California, he entertained royalty, presidents and other celebrities; it is now a museum and retreat center dedicated to furthering the Annenbergs' legacies.\n\nWalter Annenberg was born to a Jewish family in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on March 13, 1908. He was the only son of Sadie Cecelia née Freedman (1879–1965) and Moses \"Moe\" Louis Annenberg, who published the \"Daily Racing Form\" and purchased \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" in 1936. Annenberg was a stutterer since childhood.\n\nHe had seven sisters, whose names were Diana Annenberg (1900–1905), Esther \"Aye\" Annenberg Simon Levee (1901–1992), Janet Annenberg Hooker (1904–1997), Enid Annenberg Haupt (1906–2005), Lita Annenberg Hazen (1909–1995), Evelyn Annenberg Jaffe Hall (1911–2005), and Harriet Beatrice Annenberg Ames Aronson (1914–1969).\n\nThe Annenberg family moved to Long Island, New York, in 1920, and Walter attended high school at the Peddie School in Hightstown, New Jersey, graduating in 1927. He dropped out of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, never attaining a college degree. While in college, he was a member of Zeta Beta Tau, a traditionally Jewish fraternity.\n\nAnnenberg was greatly affected by tax evasion charges and other scandals involving his father in the 1930s. A significant part of his adult life was dedicated to rehabilitating the family's name through philanthropy and public service.\n\nAfter his father's death in 1942, Annenberg took over the family businesses, making successes out of some that had been failing. He bought additional print media as well as radio and television stations, resulting in great success. One of his most prominent successes was the creation of \"TV Guide\" in 1952, which he started against the advice of his financial advisors. He also created \"Seventeen\" magazine. During the 1970s, \"TV Guide\" was making a $600,000 to $1,000,000 profit per week.\n\nWhile Annenberg ran his publishing empire as a business, he was not afraid to use it for his political purposes. One of his publications, \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", was influential in ridding Philadelphia of its largely corrupt city government in 1949. It campaigned for the Marshall Plan following World War II.\nand attacked McCarthyism in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1966, Annenberg used \"The Inquirer\" to cast doubt on the candidacy of Democrat Milton Shapp for governor of Pennsylvania. Shapp was highly critical of the proposed merger of the Pennsylvania Railroad with the New York Central Railroad and was pushing the US Interstate Commerce Commission to prevent it from occurring. Annenberg, who was the biggest individual stockholder of the Pennsylvania Railroad, wanted to see the merger succeed (which it did) and he was frustrated with Shapp's opposition. During a press conference, an \"Inquirer\" reporter asked Shapp if he had ever been a patient in a mental hospital. Never having been in one, Shapp simply said \"no.\" The next day, a five-column front page \"Inquirer\" headline read, \"Shapp Denies Mental Institution Stay.\" Shapp and others have attributed his loss of the election to Annenberg's newspaper.\n\nEven while an active businessman, Annenberg had an interest in public service. In 1953 he became one of the founding trustees of Eisenhower Fellowships. After Richard M. Nixon was elected President, he appointed Annenberg as ambassador to the Court of St James's in the UK. In 1969, under pressure after the Shapp controversy, Annenberg sold \"The Inquirer\" and the \"Philadelphia Daily News\", which he bought in 1957, to Knight Newspapers for $55 million. After being appointed as ambassador, he became quite popular in Britain, being made an honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1976.\n\nAnnenberg led a lavish lifestyle. His Sunnylands winter estate in Rancho Mirage, California (near Palm Springs), hosted gatherings with such people as President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan, Queen Elizabeth II, Frank Sinatra, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Charles, Prince of Wales, and the family of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. Annenberg introduced President Reagan to British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, and the Reagans often celebrated New Year's Eve with the Annenbergs. President Ronald Reagan named Leonore Annenberg the State Department's Chief of Protocol in early 1981. Sunnylands covers , guard-gated on a parcel surrounded by a stucco wall at the northwest corner of Frank Sinatra Drive and Bob Hope Drive; the property includes a golf course. The estate continues to be used for meetings and retreats by prominent people.\n\nAnnenberg established the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania and the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California. He became a champion of public television, receiving many awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Reagan in 1986, the Linus Pauling Medal for Humanitarianism, the 1988 Eisenhower Medal for Leadership and Service, was made a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory the Great in 1998, and was named an Officer of the French Legion of Honor.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Annenberg also founded the Annenberg Center for Health Sciences at Eisenhower in Rancho Mirage, California. In the mid-1980s, he established the Annenberg Fellowship to Eton College, a one-year fellowship for one US graduating college senior (chosen from a rotating list of US universities including Duke, Harvard, Penn, Princeton, Yale, and others) to spend a year teaching and serving as a cultural ambassador to the famous British boys' school. In 1989, he established the Annenberg Foundation, and 1993, created the Annenberg Challenge, a US$500 million, five-year reform effort and the largest single gift ever made to American public education. In 1993 he and his wife Leonore were awarded the National Medal of Arts. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1995.\n\nHe sold Triangle Publications (\"TV Guide\", \"Daily Racing Form\" and a few other publications) to Australian publishing magnate Rupert Murdoch in 1988 for $3 billion (a record media price at the time), announcing that he would devote his life to philanthropy.\n\nDuring his lifetime, it is estimated that Annenberg donated over $2 billion. He once said that \"education... holds civilization together\". Many school buildings, libraries, theaters, hospitals, and museums across the United States now bear his name. His collection of French impressionist art was valued at approximately US$1 billion in 1991 and was donated to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City upon his death in 2002. In 1990, he donated $50 million to the United Negro College Fund which was the largest amount ever contributed to the organization. He was also a member of the Founding Council of the Rothermere American Institute at Oxford University, helping to raise funds for the Institute's building and library.\n\nAnnenberg was named Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia's Person of the Year in 1983 and was inducted into the Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia Hall of Fame in 1992.\n\nIn 1995, he received the S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public Service by a Private Citizen, one of the Jefferson Awards for Public Service, given out annually by the American Institute for Public Service.\n\nThe Annenberg Space for Photography, dedicated to both digital images and print photography, was opened in Los Angeles' Century City in 2009 by the Annenberg Foundation and its trustees. The first exhibit featured the work of John Baldessari, Catherine Opie, Douglas Kirkland, Julius Shulman, Lauren Greenfield, and Carolyn Cole.\n\nIn 1939, Annenberg married Bernice Veronica Dunkelman. Bernice was raised in a Jewish family in Canada, the daughter of Canadian businessman David Dunkelman who was known for mass-producing low-cost suits and selling them at a single price of $14 at his chain of 65 retail stores. They divorced in 1950 after eleven years together. While married, Dunkelman and Annenberg had two children: a daughter, Wallis, and son, Roger. Roger committed suicide in 1962; to commemorate his death, Harvard University, where Roger was a student at the time, now has a Roger Annenberg Hall named in his honor.\n\nIn 1951, Annenberg married Leonore \"Lee\" Cohn. Lee was a niece of Harry Cohn, the founder and president of Columbia Pictures. Although of Jewish ethnicity, she was raised a Christian Scientist by her uncle's wife. Despite being born to Jewish families, the Annenbergs were not practitioners of Judaism; they regularly celebrated Easter and Christmas with family and friends.\n\nAnnenberg died at his home in Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, on October 1, 2002, from complications of pneumonia; he was 94 years old. He was survived by his wife, Leonore (February 20, 1918 – March 12, 2009); his daughter, Wallis; and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn Hall. Including those by his wife's daughters from her first two marriages (Diane Deshong and Elizabeth Kabler), he left seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "52976706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52976706", "title": "Water justice", "text": "Water justice\n\nWater justice refers to the access of individuals to clean water. More specifically, the access of individuals to clean water for survival (drinking, fishing, etc.) and recreational purposes as a human right. Water and sanitation for all provided in an equitable and sustainable way is central to global justice for poor women and men. Despite successive global declarations and efforts, hundreds of millions still suffer from lack of access. Simplistic portrayals of water and sanitation 'crises' have often led to misunderstandings on the nature of the problem and how to address it. The result has been a failure to centralize the needs and interests of the poor and marginalized within different solutions.\n\nA simultaneous increase in demand and decreasing availability of water are leading to an intensification of competition and conflicts, worsening existing water-based inequalities. Globalization and climate change has favored some actors' access and control of water at the expense of others— threatening their water and food security.\n\nWater justice promotes the regulation of corporations from polluting water, and impeding them from restricting access, in any way, to bodies of water that may provide clean water for drinking, fishing, leisure, etc. Water justice is often reached through activism, social media, outreach; through the law; through the pressure imposed by interest groups and lobbyists on elected officials; and by educating the public on the multifaceted importance of water justice.\n\nThe issue of water justice is considered a relatively recent one in human history: before the 19th century Industrial Revolution, people lived more in harmony with their immediate environment. As industrialization has spread around the globe, so the problem of contamination and diminishing access to water has spread with it. As Earth's population continues to grow, people are putting ever-increasing pressure on the planet's water resources. In a sense, the world's oceans, rivers, and other inland waters are being harmed by human activities.\n\nOver the past few decades, the increase in population and advances made in technology have increased the relevance of water justice. Water pollution has many different causes and this is one of the reasons why it is a difficult problem to solve. Surface waters and groundwater are the two types of water resources that pollution affects the most. If pollution comes from a single location, it is known as point source pollution. A great deal of water pollution happens not from one single source but from many different scattered sources. This is called non-point source pollution. Among the different sources of both point and non-point water contamination, nutrients, waste water, sewage, chemical waste, radioactive waste, oil pollution and plastics are the most common, for example.\n\nTo prevent increased pollution, environmental damage, and to keep drinking water clean, various Legal acts have been signed into law.\n\nThe Water Justice movement is largely grassroots, with small groups of citizens taking the issue into their own hands by means of protesting, petitioning, fundraising, or donating items such as water filters in order to broaden access to clean water. Some well-known people have used their exposure to further the cause of water justice: Erin Brockovich, media personality and environmental activist has spoken against Flint officials' mishandling of the water crisis there. Actress Shailene Woodley was arrested at a Dakota Access Pipeline protest, writing afterwards about her experience: \"If you are a human who requires water to survive, then this issue directly involves you.\"\n\nAnother key player arguing to defend access to clean water in the Standing Rock protests is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribal Chairman, Dave Archambault II, who has spoken to the Human Rights Council at the U.N. in Geneva on behalf of his tribe. In a separate statement, Archambault thanked those who fought the pipeline \"in the name of protecting our water.\"\n\nDespite being for the most part grassroots, the Water Justice movement is global, and encompasses a wide array of diverse groups such as the Global Water Justice Movement, Friends of the Right to Water, the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions, Food and Water Watch, and the Heinrich Böll Foundation. Groups such as these believe that water is part of the global commons, and thus argue against the privatization of water resources and give the state the responsibility of ensuring the right to water.\n\nWater contamination usually occurs through a series of two mechanisms: point and non-point sources of pollution. According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), point source pollution is \"any single identifiable source of pollution from which pollutants are discharged, such as a pipe, ditch, ship or factory smokestack.” Therefore, among the most common examples of point source pollution, poor factory and sewage treatment appear high on the list; although not as frequent, but, nevertheless, equally—if not more—dangerous, oil spills are another famous example of point source of pollution. On the other hand, non-point sources of pollution are those that may come from different sources, among which, poor and badly monitored agricultural activities can negatively affect the quality of any nearby sources of water.\n\n\nAgricultural activities that cause non-point source pollution include:\n\nWhen it comes to America alone, there has been much activity surrounding the issues of water in Standing Rock, ND and Flint, Michigan. When the issue arose of a pipeline being implemented on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation of North Dakota, residents began to take action almost immediately. When the pipeline was proposed in January 2016, the Sioux tribe released a petition that garnered almost half a million signatures within 3 months. This postponed the construction of the pipeline, but the action did not stop there. In July of the same year, the tribe attempted to sue the Army Corps of Engineers with the argument that it would harm the area's water supply. This only led the Energy Transfer Partners to file a counter lawsuit, saying that the group was hindering their work. 2016 presidential candidate Jill Stein led movements against the construction, which included spray painting a bulldozer with the phrase, \"I approve this message\". Adding to the publication of the issue, actress Shailene Woodley was arrested for blocking the construction of the pipeline. The debate on whether or not the pipeline will actually be built is still in progress.\n\nThe water crisis in Flint, Michigan has also led activists to focus on getting clean water to the people. After the 2014 decision to make the Flint River the primary water source of the town, residents quickly noticed the quality of their water declining. The American Civil Liberties Union filed multiple lawsuits against the administration in Flint, saying that the levels of lead in the water is absurd, and demanded the pipes be replaced. This has yet to happen, and the people of Flint continue to struggle for clean water.\n\nSeveral state and national organizations and programs are dedicated to the access of safe water. The scope of these organizations are varied by their outreach (from focusing on a small county to working globally) and the aspects of water justice they are contributing to. Many of these organizations work within governmental systems while others work outside of them. These organizations have helped aid in the understanding and knowledge of water related issues, how they affect individuals and communities, and have found solutions to improve safe water access.\n\nThe United States of America has some of the safest drinking water supplies in the world. Despite this, there are several cases and outbreaks of illnesses and related health issues due to contaminated water reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention every year. Several organizations work to educate communities about proper water safety procedures and places emphasis on individuals and communities to understand where their water supply comes from.\n\nMany water justice organizations work within industries related to community water to create safer water infrastructure. Many provide certification to certain professions to ensure work and product quality related to water. Additionally, many organizations have created groups for professions that deal with water infrastructure and safety. Some of these profession include public health professionals, engineers, and scientific researchers.\n\nSeveral of these organizations also promote environmental and public health related research and aid in funding and education of these projects.\n\nMany organizations related to water justice work with or within the government to enact change in water policy and management. This can include city and state governments, to the federal government, to Tribal governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "52308625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52308625", "title": "William Lyons (philosopher)", "text": "William Lyons (philosopher)\n\nWilliam Edward Lyons is a philosopher who specializes in philosophy of mind. Lyons was the former head of the Department of Philosophy (1985–1995) and Professor of Moral Philosophy (1985–2004) in the School of Mental and Moral Science, Trinity College, Dublin. He is now an Emeritus Fellow of Trinity College Dublin and a member of the Royal Irish Academy.\" He is also the author of a number of \"theatre of thought\" dramas. His play about Wittgenstein, \"The Crooked Roads of Genius\" had its world premiere on 19 April 2011 at the Riverside Studios. He received his PhD at the University of Dundee.\n\nList of works by Lyons\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2884630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2884630", "title": "William of Sherwood", "text": "William of Sherwood\n\nWilliam of Sherwood or William Sherwood (), with numerous variant spellings, was a medieval English scholastic philosopher, logician, and teacher. Little is known of his life, but he is thought to have studied in Paris, was a master at Oxford in 1252, treasurer of Lincoln from 1254/1258 onwards, and a rector of Aylesbury.\n\nHe was the author of two books which were an important influence on the development of scholastic logic: \"Introductiones in Logicam\" (Introduction to Logic), and \"Syncategoremata\". These are the first known works to deal in a systematic way with what is now called supposition theory, known in William's time as the \"logica moderna\".\n\nWilliam was probably born in Nottinghamshire, between 1200 and 1210. In common with many educated English men of that time, he may have studied at Oxford university or the University of Paris, or both. There are examples in his logical work which suggest he was a master at Paris. (For example, \"No man lectures at Paris unless he is a smart person\" and \"Whatever runs has feet, the Seine runs, ergo the Seine has feet\"). Further evidence that he lectured in Paris is that those logicians who were influenced by his work also worked there, including Peter of Spain () and Lambert of Auxerre ().\n\nHe is thought to have become treasurer of Lincoln Cathedral some time in the 1250s. The treasurer was one of the four principal officers of the English cathedrals whose duty was to keep the treasures of the church – the gold and silver vessels, ornaments, relics, jewels, and altar cloths. He would have had a personal residence in the Cathedral close, would have employed a deputy and a large staff, and therefore could be absent as long as he performed those duties that could not be delegated. He probably died there in or before 1272.\n\nHe is mentioned by Roger Bacon, who had also been a Master at Paris, as among \"the more famous wise men of Christendom\" one of whom named is Albertus Magnus, another of whom is master William of Sherwood, \"the treasurer of the church of Lincoln in England, who is much wiser than Albert\".\n\nWilliam's main work is a small logic manual titled \"Introductiones in logicam\". It survives in a single manuscript probably written in the late thirteenth century, headed \"Introductiones Magistri Guilli de Shyreswode in Logicam\". It did not appear fully in print until 1937, in Grabman's Latin edition, and was not translated into English until 1966, by Kretzmann. No other works that are definitely by him have ever been printed.\n\nThe book consists of six chapters; five of these are expositions of Aristotle's main logical works, as follows:\n\nChapter 5, \"Properties of Terms\", contains material that is not in Aristotle, but is a distinctively medieval development called Supposition theory, which deals with the semantics of statements. The theory attempts to explain how the truth of simple sentences, expressed schematically, depend on how the terms \"supposit\" or \"stand for\" certain extra-linguistic items, and tries to address the problem of \"sentential forms\", like \"I promise you a horse\", which do not appear to fit the standard syllogistic forms.\n\nIn this chapter William introduces what was to become a standard division of supposition into \"material\", \"formal\", and \"personal\". In \"material supposition\", a term stands for itself, as when we say that \"Socrates\" is a name (note that medieval Latin did not use quotation marks as in modern English). In \"formal supposition\", the word signifies its meaning, as in \"man\" is a species. Formal supposition is similar to what is indicated in modern philosophical logic by italicising a common noun, as when we refer to the concept \"horse\". Personal supposition is approximately the relation we now call \"satisfied by\", or \"denotes\", as in \"the term \"man\" denotes Socrates, Aristotle, etc.\".\n\nHe discusses a number of problem cases. For example, the sentence \"every man sees a man\" is true when there is a single man that every man sees (for example if \"every man sees Socrates\" is true). But the sentence is also true when every man sees a different man, or when some men see a single man (such as Socrates), other men see another man, and innumerable cases in between. This is called \"confused supposition\". This instance of the problem of multiple generality, is now thought to be insoluble using the fixed schema of Aristotle's semantics.\n\nWilliam's work spurred a development of logic in the thirteenth century under the general designation \"De Proprietibus Terminorum\". Those who engaged in this part of logic were called the \"Moderni\", or \"Terministae\". Its most detailed treatment is found in Ockham, and in the works of those who followed him.\n\nNow, William is perhaps best known for a mnemonic poem to help students remember the names of the valid syllogistic forms:\nBarbara celarent darii ferio baralipton<br>\nCelantes dabitis fapesmo frisesomorum;<br>\nCesare campestres festino baroco; darapti<br>\nFelapton disamis datisi bocardo ferison\nThis verse might not have originated with him, but it is the oldest known surviving version. Peter of Spain later gives an account of the verses which is more detailed, and also one which lacks mistakes in William's version. According to Kretzmann, this strongly suggests their source is a single earlier version, now lost.\n\n\n\n\n"}
