{"id": "56763750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56763750", "title": "30 Roc", "text": "30 Roc\n\nSamuel Gloade, professionally known as 30 Roc is an American record producer known for producing mixtapes and albums for music artists. To date he has produced for many artists, including Rae Sremmurd, Lil Yachty, Migos, Plies, Cardi B, Rich Homie Quan, and Kendrick Lamar, among many others. He has produced many songs, most notably T-Wayne's \"Nasty Freestyle\", \"Rake It Up\" by Yo Gotti featuring Nicki Minaj, Cardi B's hit single, \"Bartier Cardi\", which features 21 Savage, \"Rock\" by Plies, and \"King's Dead\" which was performed by Kendrick Lamar, Jay Rock, and Future. Gloade was also an executive producer for Lil Yachty's second studio album, Lil Boat 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "45341261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45341261", "title": "4mat", "text": "4mat\n\nMatthew Simmonds, also known as 4mat or 4-Mat, is a British electronic musician, sound designer, and video game composer best known for his chiptunes written in tracker software. He began his career in the demoscene of the early 1990s composing on the Amiga.\n\n\n\n4mat has been credited on the following games:\n"}
{"id": "21642650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21642650", "title": "Abu Akash", "text": "Abu Akash\n\nAbu Akash was an Al-Qaeda operative. He was believed to have been killed in a drone attack in Asori village in North Waziristan on October 31, 2008. However, he managed to escape safely. He was known by aliases Haji Akasha Khan, Abdur Rehman and Iraqi Malang. He was born in Iraq. He came to notoriety in 2007 when he released a video calling for attacks on coalition forces. Sources said Abu Akash was Al Qaeda’s chief of financial affairs in the region and set up his headquarters in Mir Ali, Pakistan. One of his sons was killed in a drone attack previously on November 30, 2005. Abu Akash was killed in another drone attack on September 24, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "318466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318466", "title": "Agent Smith", "text": "Agent Smith\n\nAgent Smith is a fictional character and the primary antagonist in \"The Matrix\" franchise. He is portrayed by Hugo Weaving (and briefly by Ian Bliss) in the films and voiced by Christopher Corey Smith in \"\".\n\nIn 2008, Agent Smith was selected by \"Empire Magazine\" as the 84th Greatest Movie Character of All Time. In 2013, Weaving reprised the role for a General Electric advertisement.\n\nSmith began as an Agent, an AI program in the Matrix programmed to keep order within the system by terminating human simulacra which would bring instability to the simulated reality, as well as any rogue programs that no longer serve a purpose to the Machine collective. To this end, Smith and his fellow Agents possess a number of superhuman attributes from their ability to bend the rules of the Matrix. Smith manifests his physical form by inhabiting and overwriting the simulated body of a human wired into the Matrix; by moving from body to body, he can reform himself if he is \"killed\" (which only kills the host body) and appear virtually anywhere. He can overcome the limitations of gravity and the human body, giving him speed and strength sufficient to dodge bullets flawlessly, punch through concrete with his bare hands, and jump impossible distances. He and other Agents wear earpieces that allow them to communicate with each other instantaneously and perceive the actions of other humans wired into the Matrix via a type of shared consciousness. When Agent Smith removes his earpiece during the first film, he is left unaware of the attack on the building in which he is holding Morpheus. Smith is armed in the first film with the Desert Eagle, chambered for high-caliber .50 AE ammunition, as is standard with all Agents within the Matrix.\n\nAt the end of the first film, Smith appears to have been deleted by Neo. However, in the sequels, Smith is revealed to have been linked to Neo, which enabled him to resist being sent to the system source where destroyed programs are permanently deleted. No longer an Agent, Smith is liberated from the Machines' control and exists as a renegade program that manifests himself akin to a self-replicating computer virus compared to his original Agent-based ability to inhabit a single body wired into the Matrix. Smith gains the power to copy his physical form onto any entity in the Matrix by phasing his hand into their body and spreading a black liquid that transforms them into a copy of himself, resulting in an ever-growing army of Smiths connected by a single consciousness. By copying himself onto a human redpill in the process of disconnecting from the Matrix, Smith overwrites their consciousness and exists in the outside world. This is seen when Smith takes over Bane's body in \"The Matrix Reloaded\"; however, he is repelled when he attempts to do the same to Morpheus and Neo. Smith's real power comes from his ability to absorb memories and powers from his victims, human and program alike, culminating in him taking over the Oracle and fighting Neo in the final battle of the Matrix series.\n\nAll Agents (other than Agents Perry and Pace from \"The Matrix Online\" game) are Caucasian males, as opposed to the population of Zion, which contains people of many ethnic groups. Agents wear rectangular sunglasses and dark green business suits; after Smith loses his status as an Agent, his suit turns black and his sunglasses take on an angled contour that approximates the rounded shape of the ones Neo wears. In contrast to the other Agents who show apathy toward the human race, Smith harbors an acute disgust with humanity. In the first film, he expresses a desire to leave the Matrix to escape its repulsive taint, and reasons that with Zion destroyed his services will no longer be required, allowing him in some sense to 'leave' the Matrix. This at least partially explains his extreme antagonism towards Neo, who fights relentlessly to save Zion.\n\nOther Agents have common Anglo-Saxon names like Brown, Jones, and Thompson. It was mentioned in the Philosopher Commentary on the DVD collection that the names of Smith, Brown, and Jones may be endemic to the system itself, demonstrating a very \"robotic\" mindset on the part of the Machines.\n\nNeo's solitary role as the One is contrasted by Smith, who, by replicating himself, becomes \"the many\". When Neo asks the Oracle about Smith, the Oracle explains that Smith is Neo's opposite and his negative.\n\nUnlike the other characters in \"The Matrix\", Smith almost always refers to Neo as \"Mr. Anderson\". He calls him \"Neo\" only once in each part of the trilogy: the first time when he is interviewing Neo about his double life, the second when he is dropping off an Agent earplug in a package for Neo, and the third when he is repeating a line of his vision to Neo.\n\nWeaving said of the film series in 2003 that it was always going to be a trilogy, and that as Neo's nemesis, Smith was always going to be there, describing Smith as \"more of a free agent\" later on in the series.\n\nFrom the start it is evident that Agent Smith is significantly stronger, smarter, and more individualistic than other Agents. While other agents rarely act without consulting each other via their earpieces, to the point where they often finish each other's sentences, Smith is usually the one giving orders or using his earpiece to gather information for his own ends. Smith also appears to be the leader of other Agents in the first film, as he has the authority to launch Sentinel attacks in the real world. As with other Agents, Smith generally approaches problems through a pragmatic point of view but, if necessary, will also act with brute force and apparent rage, especially when provoked by Neo.\n\nThe earpieces represent some form of control mechanism by the machines. It is notable that when he is interrogating Morpheus, he sends the other agents from the room, then removes his earpiece, releasing himself from the link to the machines before expressing his opinion of humanity. Early in the second film, Smith's earpiece is sent to Neo in an envelope as a message from Smith, representing Smith's newfound freedom.\n\nAgent Smith complains to Morpheus that the Matrix and its inhabitants smell disgusting, \"if there is such a thing [as smell]\". Smith has an open hatred of humans and their weakness of the flesh. He compares humanity to a virus, a disease organism that would replicate uncontrollably and eventually destroy their environment were it not for the machine intelligences keeping them in check. Ironically, Smith eventually becomes a computer virus, multiplying until he has overrun the entire Matrix.\n\nAt the same time, Smith develops an animosity towards the Matrix itself, feeling that he is as much a prisoner of it as the humans he is tasked with controlling. He later develops an immense and increasingly open desire for the destruction of both mankind and machines.\n\nHe was also shown to be a nihilist, which eventually culminates in his statement that the purpose of life is to end, and crediting Neo's life for his determining this. During his final showdown with Neo, Smith angrily dismisses causes such as freedom, truth, peace, and love as simply human attempts to justify a meaningless and purposeless existence, and is completely unable to comprehend why Neo continues to fight him despite the knowledge that he cannot win.\n\nThe Wachowskis have commented that Smith's gradual humanization throughout \"The Matrix\" is a process intended to mirror and balance Neo's own increasing power and understanding of the machine world.\n\nA writer at \"The Guardian\" commented that Smith seems to enjoy his job too much.\n\nIn the first film, Smith is one of the three Agents sent to deal with Morpheus. After Neo is successfully removed from the Matrix, Smith arranges Morpheus' capture by bribing Cypher, a disillusioned member of Morpheus' crew, with reintegration into The Matrix. When Neo manages to free Morpheus, Smith and his fellow Agents engage in a lengthy cross-town chase. He and Neo fight, with Smith dominating most of the fight. Shortly after Neo escapes the fight, Smith guns him down. Neo revives, realizes his power as the One, and enters Smith, to destroy him from within.\n\nAs a result of his contact with Neo from the first film, Smith is \"unplugged\" in the second film, no longer an Agent of the system but a \"free man\". This is signified by the lack of an earpiece, which he sends to Neo in an envelope as a message early in the film. His appearance has changed in the second film as well; his sunglasses now have an angular shape different from the Agents' oblong lenses, approximating the shape of the ones Neo wears. His suit color, as opposed to the greenish tint from the first film, is now jet black. He still possesses the abilities of an Agent, but instead of being able to jump from one human to another, he is able to copy himself over any human or program in the Matrix through direct contact; this includes humans wired into the Matrix, non-Agent programs with human forms, redpills, and other Agents. Smith retains the memories and abilities, if any, of the one over which he copies himself. This ability is much like how a virus replicates, creating an ironic contrast with the first film, where Smith likens humanity to a virus.\n\nHe makes the claim that Neo has set him free. However, he believes there is an unseen purpose that still binds him to Neo. He tries to copy his programming onto Neo, but when this fails, he and dozens of his clones attack him, forcing Neo to flee. Later, he and his clones try to stop Neo from reaching the machine mainframe, without success.\n\nSmith copies himself onto Bane (Ian Bliss), a crew member of the Zion hovercraft \"Caduceus\". While waiting to leave the Matrix with a message from The Oracle, Bane is attacked and overwritten by Smith, who then takes control of his body in the real world. Smith tests his control over the body by making Bane cut his own arm, in preparation for an assassination attempt on Neo that he quickly abandons. He later sabotages the Zion fleet's defense of the city by triggering one ship's electromagnetic pulse weapon too early, knocking out the other ships and allowing the Sentinels to overrun them.\n\nBy the start of the third film, Smith has managed to copy himself over nearly every humanoid in the Matrix, giving him complete control over the \"Core Network\" (the underlying foundation of the inner workings of the Matrix), thus rendering him immutable by even the Machines themselves. The Oracle explains to Neo that he and Smith have become equal in power and that Smith is Neo's negative, a result of the Matrix's equation trying to balance itself. She tells Neo that Smith will destroy both the Matrix and the real world unless he is stopped. Smith soon assimilates the Oracle, gaining her power of foresight, or omniscience, and later manifests reality-bending powers equivalent to Neo's, such as the ability to fly. Meanwhile, in the real world, Bane (now under Smith's control) stows away on a ship being used by Neo and Trinity and tries to kill them both. Neo is blinded in the fight, but discovers that he can now sense Smith's essence acutely enough to land a blow that kills Bane.\n\nNear the climax of the film, Neo offers a deal with the Machines to get rid of Smith in exchange for Zion's safety, warning them that Smith is beyond their control and will eventually spread to the machine city, which will result in destruction of both mankind and machines. Knowing that Neo is right, the Machines agree to his terms and command all Sentinels attacking Zion to stand down and wait for orders. They later give Neo a connection to enter the Matrix to stop Smith on their behalf. Although the Matrix is now populated exclusively by Smith and his clones, the Smith that has obtained the Oracle's powers battles Neo alone; as he explains, he has foreseen his victory, and has no need for the help of his copies. The two are almost evenly matched as the fight begins, though Neo's combat abilities seem arguably superior to that of Smith, the latter attacking more out of brute force, rather than the technical skill he displayed in the first film. This lasts, until Neo is able to punch Smith strongly enough to slam him into the street at least 20 ft away. As the fight continues, however, it becomes clear that Neo cannot win with his finite stamina against the tireless Smith, who begins to dominate Neo in the fight; by the end of the fight, he is able to brutally beat Neo into near defeat. In the midst of this battle, Smith explains to Neo his final nihilistic revelation: \"It was your life that taught me the purpose of all life. The purpose of life is to end.\"\n\nWhen Neo is near defeat, Smith demands to know why he continues to fight despite knowing he cannot win. Neo calmly responds, \"Because I choose to\" and is savagely pummeled by the enraged Smith as a result. Suddenly recognizing the scene from his prophecy, Smith is compelled to deliver the line he said in it: \"I say... Everything that has a beginning has an end, Neo.\" His own words confuse and frighten him, and Neo realizes that he cannot overpower Smith and allows himself to be assimilated. Because Agent Smith has deleted the anomaly (Neo) he no longer has a purpose and must also be deleted. Smith is now directly connected to the Source, the machines are able to destroy all copies of his programming and reboot the Matrix without errors. The process kills Neo, whose body is carried away by the machines, and an uncertain peace is established between Zion and the machine world.\n\nDespite his destruction at the end of the film series, Agent Smith (or at least the remnants of his programming) managed to return and made several appearances inside the movie's official continuation, the MMORPG \"The Matrix Online\".\n\nThe first infection was noted in Machine mission controller Agent Gray, whose background information confirms that he was overwritten by Smith at some point during the timeline of the second and third films. This infection had somehow survived the reboot at the end of the third film and rose to the surface once again during chapter 1.2, The Hunt For Morpheus. The Agent, in both a storyline related mission and live event, showed signs of uncharacteristic speech and emotion and eventually led an assault against Zionist redpills declaring 'their stench unbearable any longer'. As a result of his actions the agent was apprehended by his fellow system representatives and scheduled for a 'thorough code cleansing'. He has shown no signs of direct infection since. \nMachine liaison officer DifferenceEngine, following a similar scenario to that of the previous Agent Gray infection, also took on the dialect and emotional characteristics of the famous exile agent. Instead of attacking redpills, this instance insisted on finding 'Mr. Anderson'. In the end, the human/machine head relations liaison, Agent Pace, was made aware of the program's infection and subsequent crusade; she proceeded to lock down his RSI and return his program to the Source for analysis. His subsequent fate is unknown.\n\nThe third victim of infection was the notorious bluepill Shane Black. This man was an unfortunate victim of the Smith Virus who, once infected, gained the ability to spread the code to others. This quickly led to a small scale outbreak, with several more bluepills becoming infected and joining forces in their hunt for power. He and the other infected were eventually cleansed and returned to their bluepill lives. Shane Black's troubles continued, as he was one of the bluepills recorded to have first witnessed Unlimited redpills practising their newfound powers at the Uriah wharf. This triggered a resurgence of the memories formed during his Smith infection and he soon became volatile and insane. He is reported to have been mercifully killed shortly afterwards.\n\nThe most recent appearance of the Smith virus was during the third anniversary events. The virus manifested itself in the form of black-suited men (although they lacked the distinct likeness of Smith). As redpills began to fight back using specialist code from the Oracle, the virus vanished suddenly, stating that he had obtained a new and more dangerous form. The nature of this form was never revealed. \n\n\"\", a video game covering the events of the entire film trilogy, features a different ending than that shown in \"The Matrix Revolutions\", with a new final boss: the \"MegaSmith\". The MegaSmith was used for gameplay reasons, because though the Wachowskis thought the martyr approach suitable for film, they also believed that in an interactive medium such as a video game (based upon the successful completion of goals), this would not work. So, described by the siblings as \"A little Hulk versus Galactus action\", this character was created to be the more appropriate \"final boss\" of \"Path of Neo\". The MegaSmith is composed of destroyed buildings, cars, and parts of the road, with the \"spectator Smiths\" standing around the crater and in the streets acting as the MegaSmith's muscles, resulting in Smith not only becoming the city's people, but the city itself.\n\nAfter Neo knocks Smith into the crater in the level \"Aerial Battle\", Smith is sent flying through the ground and up through the street. As Neo relaxes, the surrounding Smiths walk away from the crater. Neo gets out of the crater, and dodges a car which flies through the air and lands in a pile of debris. Neo looks on as Smiths tear up chunks of the road and throw cars into this pile. A truck then speeds into a building and blows it up. Smiths can be seen holding the debris together as it takes on a thirty-story tall humanoid form which is then struck by lightning, powering it up. Neo flies up to watch as the giant humanoid lowers its head onto its shoulders. The giant Smith then pulls a pair of giant Smith Shades from a billboard and puts them on. As an interesting aside, the glasses on the billboard are the same ones Agent Smith wore in the first Matrix film, with the curved nose bar, but when the MegaSmith actually puts them on, they become the ones Agent Smith wears in \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and in \"Revolutions\".\n\nAfter the fight—consisting of Neo dodging blows and building up power to launch more powerful assaults at MegaSmith, damaging one arm and creating a large hole in his chest—Neo flies straight into MegaSmith's mouth, causing the Smiths throughout the Matrix to overload and explode. The player is then shown a short scene from \"The Matrix: Revolutions\" of the streets shining with light emanating from the destroyed Smiths.\n\nAgent Smith briefly appears in \"The Lego Batman Movie\" as one of the captives of the Phantom Zone. He and his clones appear surveilling Joker's vandalized Wayne Island, and later appear as one of the multiple enemies attacking the heroes. Smith's clones also appear as enemies in the \"Lego Batman Movie\" story pack for \"Lego Dimensions\", adapting their role in the film.\nHis voice actor is uncredited.\n\nChristopher Borrelli praised the writing of Smith, noting that the character \"had all the good lines\", and praising Weaving's portrayal of the character as showing \"refreshingly nihilistic wit\".\n\nThe character has been described as a 1950s \"organization man\", like Sergeant Joe Friday from \"Dragnet\".\n\nAs a nod to the fact that both characters are portrayed by Hugo Weaving, a Lego incarnation of Smith appears as an Easter egg in a cutscene from \"Lego: The Lord of the Rings\" when Frodo Baggins is introduced to Elrond.\n\n"}
{"id": "45241461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241461", "title": "Anatoly Klyan", "text": "Anatoly Klyan\n\nAnatoly Klyan (23 January 1946 – 30 June 2014), was a Russian Channel One cameraman who was fatally injured when he was shot while traveling in a bus in Donetsk, Ukraine during the 2014 pro-Russian unrest.\n\nAnatoly Klyan was from Russia, and he was 68 years old when his death occurred. He was interned at the Troyekurovskoye Cemetery in Moscow with several colleagues who also died in Ukraine in 2014 while reporting. The other journalists buried there are Andrey Stenin, Igor Kornelyuk, and Anton Voloshin.\n\nAnotoly Klyan was an experienced cameraman as he covered many conflicts in areas such as Nicaragua, Yugoslavia, Angola, Mongolia, and Chechnya. His career in journalism lasted 40 years before his death. Klyan worked for the Pervy Kanal (Channel One Russia) broadcaster.\n\nAnatoly Klyan was fatally wounded while he was riding in a bus that was filled with different soldiers' mothers. The bus was trying to get to a Ukrainian military base in Donetsk, Ukraine. As soon as the bus approached the village called Avdiivka, which is near Donetsk, the bus was suddenly fired upon. The shooting was coming from the Ukrainian forces. Klyan took bullet wounds to his abdomen, but he continued to film on the bus until he told his colleagues that he could no longer carry the camera. Klyan was then placed in a car and taken to the hospital. He later died from his wounds in the local hospital. Klyan had been covering dangerous jobs for his whole career.\n\nThe pro-Russian separatists of the War in Donbass were the organizers of this trip. There has been conflict between Kiev forces and pro-Russian separatists in the eastern regions in Ukraine, such as Donetsk and Luhansk. This conflict has caused bloodshed. At the time of Klyan's death, Ukraine was divided between pro-Russians and Ukrainian government supporters. According to a BBC News analysis by Stephen Ennis Klyan's employer has in its reports about Ukraine \"sought to further demonise and dehumanise the Ukrainian army\".\n\nKlyan's death was part of a series of journalist deaths in Ukraine. He was the fifth journalist that was killed in the region in 2014. VGTRK lost two journalists and a technician in another incident in Luhansk on June 17.\n\nKlyan's death, along with other journalists in Ukraine, has caused anger in Moscow, as Moscow has condemned the attacks on it journalists there. Klyan's death also was part of a violation of a ceasefire agreement. Ukrainian soldiers were blamed by the Russian foreign ministry for the attack that occurred. The Russian foreign ministry demanded an investigation into the assault and attack. They demanded a punishment for the ones responsible for everything that happened.\n\nIrina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, said, \"I condemn the murder of Anatoly Klyan. I call on the authorities to conduct an investigation into the murder and bring to account those responsible.\nJournalists covering events in Ukraine must have an opportunity to fulfill their professional duty, which is to provide citizens with unbiased information and promote news-based discussions without any fear for their own lives.\"\n\nMoscow was starting to protest. They were expressing their concern about ceasefire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "853637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853637", "title": "Antipope Adalbert", "text": "Antipope Adalbert\n\nAdalbert or Albert or Aleric () was an Italian cardinal and suburbicarian bishop of Santa Rufina elected as antipope in January 1101 by the imperial party in Rome following the arrest and imprisonment of Antipope Theodoric.\n\nEncouraged by the Emperor Henry IV, the followers of the late Antipope Clement III, who had elected Theodoric, gathered in the Basilica of SS. XII Apostoli to elect Albert in opposition to Pope Paschal II.\n\n"}
{"id": "51801037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51801037", "title": "Beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar", "text": "Beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar\n\nThe beheading of Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar by Pakistani soldiers and over two-dozen HuJI terrorists led by Ilyas Kashmiri happened in the Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, India on 27 February 2000. Talekar was an Indian soldier on guard duty at the Ashok Listening Post which is surrounded on three sides by Pakistani posts. His post was attacked under the cover of mortar and rocket fire from Pakistani troops in which all seven soldiers on duty from the 17 Maratha Light Infantry battalion were killed. Talekar was beheaded and his severed head was carried across the line of control.\n\nAfter the beheading of Talekar, allegations of other incidents of beheading by both countries have frequently been reported.\n\nTalekar was a resident of Kolgaon village in Ahmednagar district, Maharashtra, India. He was the son of daily laborers and had studied till the 10th grade before joining the army. He was unmarried and 24 years old at the time of his death. According to natives of his village, the family of Talekar did not knew that he was beheaded. The army declined the Talekar's sister request to see his face. His last rites were performed at his village.\n\nIn the early hours of 27 February 2000, a guerilla attack led by Ilyas Kashmiri and twenty-five HuJI terrorists was launched at the Ashok Lightening Post, Nowshehra sector in the Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, India. The attack was covered by heavy mortar and rocket fire from Pakistani soldiers, which were dressed in black uniform and reported to be from Special Services Group. The Indian post is surrounded on all three sides by the Pakistani posts and is said to be an unfavorable position. Bhausaheb Maruti Talekar was on guard duty, and other seven soldiers of the 17 Maratha Light Infantry were in the bunker at the time of incident. Ilyas Kashmiri slit Talekar's throat and thereafter other terrorists accompanying him opened fire inside bunker in which all seven soldiers were killed.\n\nThe head of Talekar was taken across the Line of Control in Pakistan by the terrorists and was brandished as a trophy before the public. According to Indian Army, Talekar was the first casualty of the attack. A captured terrorist revealed that they had played football with the head of Talekar.\n\nPakistan denied that its soldiers were involved in the incident.\n\nPakistani media published the photographs of Ilyas Kasmiri carrying the severed head of Talekar. It also reported that the then president of Pakistan Gen. Pervez Musharraf honored Ilyas Kashmiri in a ceremony and rewarded his one-lakh ruppes cash for bringing the head of an Indian soldier. Ilyas Kashmiri, was killed in a US drone attack in 2011.\n\nThe commanding officer of the unit was Colonel Sandes. He had communicated to the superiors seeking permission to shift the Ashok listening post because of the possibility of a sneaking attack such as the one which happened on the 27 February 2000, but he was denied permission. He faced a court of inquiry after the incident which exonerated him, but his superiors had reported that colonel Sandes was unfit for commanding a unit. The colonel had to fight a legal battle to be eligible for promotion. Sandes was promoted to the rank of Brigadier in 2010.\n\nThe army took up the responsibility of the education of his sister after the incident. His family continues to receive a pension of 10,000 per month. A sum of 12 lakh rupees was given to Talekar's family as compensation.\n\nIn his memory, a community hall was built in his village. His sister is pursuing the hope to start a school for special children in his memory.\n\nSince the torture and murder of Saurabh Kalia during the Kargil war in the custody of Pakistani troops; many allegations of mistreatment of soldiers by the other side have been reported from Kashmir. The beheading of Talekar happened one year after the Kargil war ended. Pakistan has filed complaints with the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) accusing the Indian Army of beheading at least a dozen Pakistani soldiers since 1998. India has denied these allegations. In one decade before 2013, when Lance Naik Hemraj was beheaded, there have been at least three other such instances of decapitation of Indian soldiers by the Pakistani troops.\n\n"}
{"id": "41056082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41056082", "title": "Children of the Pyre", "text": "Children of the Pyre\n\nChildren of the Pyre (\"Ta paidia tis pyras\") is a 2008 film documentary directed and produced by Rajesh S. Jala. The film documents the stories of seven children who cremate dead bodies and steal cremation shrouds at India's largest crematorium, Manikarnika, on the banks of the Ganges. Jala, also the cinematographer, shot over 100 hours of footage at the crematorium and surrounding sites, including candid interviews with the seven children described in the film, who discuss their difficult life cremating dead bodies and stealing shrouds from the bodies brought to the crematorium and reselling them to merchants for a nominal fee. In 2009, the filmmaker launched a project to improve the lives of the 300 children working at the crematorium.\n\nThe film was awarded \"Best Documentary\" at the 2008 Montréal World Film Festival, 2008 São Paulo International Film Festival, 2008 Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles, 2009 Asiatica Film Mediale, 2009 IDPA, and the \"Silver Lotus Award\" for \"Best Audiography\" at the 56th National Film Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "63526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63526", "title": "Coeliac disease", "text": "Coeliac disease\n\nCoeliac disease, also spelled celiac disease, is a long-term autoimmune disorder that primarily affects the small intestine. Classic symptoms include gastrointestinal problems such as chronic diarrhoea, abdominal distention, malabsorption, loss of appetite and among children failure to grow normally. This often begins between six months and two years of age. Non-classic symptoms are more common, especially in people older than two years. There may be mild or absent gastrointestinal symptoms, a wide number of symptoms involving any part of the body or no obvious symptoms. Coeliac disease was first described in childhood; however, it may develop at any age. It is associated with other autoimmune diseases, such as diabetes mellitus type 1 and thyroiditis, among others.\nCoeliac disease is caused by a reaction to gluten, a group of various proteins found in wheat and in other grains such as barley and rye. Moderate quantities of oats, free of contamination with other gluten-containing grains, are usually tolerated. The occurrence of problems may depend on the variety of oat. It occurs in people who are genetically predisposed. Upon exposure to gluten, an abnormal immune response may lead to the production of several different autoantibodies that can affect a number of different organs. In the small bowel, this causes an inflammatory reaction and may produce shortening of the villi lining the small intestine (villous atrophy). This affects the absorption of nutrients, frequently leading to anaemia.\nDiagnosis is typically made by a combination of blood antibody tests and intestinal biopsies, helped by specific genetic testing. Making the diagnosis is not always straightforward. Frequently, the autoantibodies in the blood are negative, and many people have only minor intestinal changes with normal villi. People may have severe symptoms and be investigated for years before a diagnosis is achieved. Increasingly, the diagnosis is being made in people without symptoms, as a result of screening. Evidence regarding the effects of screening, however, is not sufficient to determine its usefulness. While the disease is caused by a permanent intolerance to wheat proteins, it is not a form of wheat allergy.\nThe only known effective treatment is a strict lifelong gluten-free diet, which leads to recovery of the intestinal mucosa, improves symptoms and reduces risk of developing complications in most people. If untreated, it may result in cancers such as intestinal lymphoma and a slightly increased risk of early death. Rates vary between different regions of the world, from as few as 1 in 300 to as many as 1 in 40, with an average of between 1 in 100 and 1 in 170 people. In developed countries, it is estimated that 80% of cases remain undiagnosed, usually because of minimal or absent gastrointestinal complaints and poor awareness of the condition. Coeliac disease is slightly more common in women than in men. The term \"coeliac\" is from the Greek κοιλιακός (\"koiliakós\", \"abdominal\") and was introduced in the 19th century in a translation of what is generally regarded as an Ancient Greek description of the disease by Aretaeus of Cappadocia.\nThe classic symptoms of untreated coeliac disease include pale, loose, and greasy stool (steatorrhoea), and weight loss or failure to gain weight. Other common symptoms may be subtle or primarily occur in organs other than the bowel itself. It is also possible to have coeliac disease without any of the classic symptoms at all. This has been shown to comprise at least 43% of presentations in children. Further, many adults with subtle disease may only present with fatigue or anaemia. Many undiagnosed individuals who consider themselves asymptomatic are in fact not, but rather have become accustomed to living in a state of chronically compromised health. Indeed, after starting a gluten-free diet and subsequent improvement becomes evident, such individuals are often able to retrospectively recall and recognise prior symptoms of their untreated disease which they had mistakenly ignored.\n\nThe diarrhoea that is characteristic of coeliac disease is chronic, pale, of large volume, and abnormally bad smelling. Abdominal pain and cramping, bloatedness with abdominal distension (thought to be due to fermentative production of bowel gas), and mouth ulcers may be present. As the bowel becomes more damaged, a degree of lactose intolerance may develop. Frequently, the symptoms are ascribed to irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), only later to be recognised as coeliac disease; a small proportion of people with symptoms of IBS have underlying coeliac disease, and screening for coeliac disease is recommended for those with IBS symptoms.\n\nCoeliac disease leads to an increased risk of both adenocarcinoma and lymphoma of the small bowel (enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL) or other non-Hodgkin's lymphomas). This risk is also higher in first-degree relatives such as siblings, parents and children. Whether or not a gluten-free diet brings this risk back to baseline is not clear. Long-standing and untreated disease may lead to other complications, such as ulcerative jejunitis (ulcer formation of the small bowel) and stricturing (narrowing as a result of scarring with obstruction of the bowel).\n\nThe changes in the bowel make it less able to absorb nutrients, minerals, and the fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K.\n\n\nCoeliac disease has been linked with a number of conditions. In many cases, it is unclear whether the gluten-induced bowel disease is a causative factor or whether these conditions share a common predisposition.\n\n\nCoeliac disease is associated with a number of other medical conditions, many of which are autoimmune disorders: diabetes mellitus type 1, hypothyroidism, primary biliary cholangitis, microscopic colitis, gluten ataxia, psoriasis, vitiligo, autoimmune hepatitis, dermatitis herpetiformis, primary sclerosing cholangitis, and more.\n\nCoeliac disease is caused by a reaction to gliadins and glutenins (gluten proteins) found in wheat, and similar proteins found in the crops of the tribe Triticeae (which includes other common grains such as barley and rye) and the tribe Aveneae (oats). Wheat subspecies (such as spelt, durum and Kamut) and wheat hybrids (such as triticale) also induce symptoms of coeliac disease.\n\nA small number of people with coeliac react to oats. Oats toxicity in coeliac people depends on the oat cultivar consumed because of prolamin genes, protein amino acid sequences, and the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins, which are different among oat varieties. Also, oats are frequently cross-contaminated with other grains containing gluten. \"Pure oat\" refers to oats uncontaminated with other gluten-containing cereals. The long-term effects of pure oats consumption are still unclear and further studies identifying the cultivars used are needed before making final recommendations on their inclusion in the gluten-free diet. Coeliac people who choose to consume oats need a more rigorous lifelong follow-up, possibly including periodic performance of intestinal biopsies.\n\nOther cereals such as corn, millet, sorghum, teff, rice, and wild rice are safe for people with coeliac to consume, as well as noncereals such as amaranth, quinoa, and buckwheat. Noncereal carbohydrate-rich foods such as potatoes and bananas do not contain gluten and do not trigger symptoms.\n\nThere are various theories as to what determines whether a genetically susceptible individual will go on to develop coeliac disease. Major theories include surgery, pregnancy, infection and emotional stress.\n\nThe eating of gluten early in a baby's life does not appear to increase the risk of CD but later introduction after 6 months may increase it. There is uncertainty whether breastfeeding reduces risk. Prolonging breastfeeding until the introduction of gluten-containing grains into the diet appears to be associated with a 50% reduced risk of developing coeliac disease in infancy; whether this persists into adulthood is not clear. These factors may just influence the timing of onset.\n\nCoeliac disease appears to be multifactorial, both in that more than one genetic factor can cause the disease and in that more than one factor is necessary for the disease to manifest in a person.\n\nAlmost all people (95%) with coeliac disease have either the variant HLA-DQ2 allele or (less commonly) the HLA-DQ8 allele. However, about 20–30% of people without coeliac disease have also inherited either of these alleles. This suggests additional factors are needed for coeliac disease to develop; that is, the predisposing HLA risk allele is necessary but not sufficient to develop coeliac disease. Furthermore, around 5% of those people who do develop coeliac disease do not have typical HLA-DQ2 or HLA-DQ8 alleles (see below).\n\nThe vast majority of people with coeliac have one of two types of the HLA-DQ protein. HLA-DQ is part of the MHC class II antigen-presenting receptor (also called the human leukocyte antigen) system and distinguishes cells between self and non-self for the purposes of the immune system. The two subunits of the HLA-DQ protein are encoded by the HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1 genes, located on the short arm of the sixth chromosome.\n\nThere are seven HLA-DQ variants (DQ2 and DQ4–DQ9). Over 95% of people with coeliac have the isoform of DQ2 or DQ8, which is inherited in families. The reason these genes produce an increase in risk of coeliac disease is that the receptors formed by these genes bind to gliadin peptides more tightly than other forms of the antigen-presenting receptor. Therefore, these forms of the receptor are more likely to activate T lymphocytes and initiate the autoimmune process.\n\nMost people with coeliac bear a two-gene HLA-DQ2 haplotype referred to as DQ2.5 haplotype. This haplotype is composed of two adjacent gene alleles, DQA1*0501 and DQB1*0201, which encode the two subunits, DQ α and DQ β. In most individuals, this DQ2.5 isoform is encoded by one of two chromosomes 6 inherited from parents (DQ2.5cis). Most coeliacs inherit only one copy of this DQ2.5 haplotype, while some inherit it from \"both\" parents; the latter are especially at risk for coeliac disease as well as being more susceptible to severe complications.\n\nSome individuals inherit DQ2.5 from one parent and an additional portion of the haplotype (either DQB1*02 or DQA1*05) from the other parent, increasing risk. Less commonly, some individuals inherit the DQA1*05 allele from one parent and the DQB1*02 from the other parent (DQ2.5trans) (called a trans-haplotype association), and these individuals are at similar risk for coeliac disease as those with a single DQ2.5-bearing chromosome 6, but in this instance disease tends not to be familial. Among the 6% of European coeliacs that do not have DQ2.5 (cis or trans) or DQ8 (encoded by the haplotype DQA1*03:DQB1*0302), 4% have the DQ2.2 isoform, and the remaining 2% lack DQ2 or DQ8.\n\nThe frequency of these genes varies geographically. DQ2.5 has high frequency in peoples of North and Western Europe (Basque Country and Ireland with highest frequencies) and portions of Africa and is associated with disease in India, but it is not found along portions of the West Pacific rim. DQ8 has a wider global distribution than DQ2.5 and is particularly common in South and Central America; up to 90% of individuals in certain Amerindian populations carry DQ8 and thus may display the coeliac phenotype.\n\nOther genetic factors have been repeatedly reported in coeliac disease; however, involvement in disease has variable geographic recognition. Only the HLA-DQ loci show a consistent involvement over the global population. Many of the loci detected have been found in association with other autoimmune diseases. One locus, the LPP or lipoma-preferred partner gene, is involved in the adhesion of extracellular matrix to the cell surface, and a minor variant (SNP = rs1464510) increases the risk of disease by approximately 30%. This gene strongly associates with coeliac disease (p < 10) in samples taken from a broad area of Europe and the US.\n\nThe prevalence of coeliac disease genotypes in the modern population is not completely understood. Given the characteristics of the disease and its apparent strong heritability, it would normally be expected that the genotypes would undergo negative selection and to be absent in societies where agriculture has been practised the longest (compare with a similar condition, Lactose intolerance, which has been negatively selected so strongly that its prevalence went from ~100% in ancestral populations to less than 5% in some European countries). This expectation was first proposed by Simoons (1981). By now, however, it is apparent that this is not the case; on the contrary, there is evidence of \"positive\" selection in coeliac disease genotypes. It is suspected that some of them may have been beneficial by providing protection against bacterial infections.\n\nThe majority of the proteins in food responsible for the immune reaction in coeliac disease are the prolamins. These are storage proteins rich in proline (\"prol-\") and glutamine (\"-amin\") that dissolve in alcohols and are resistant to proteases and peptidases of the gut. Prolamins are found in cereal grains with different grains having different but related prolamins: wheat (gliadin), barley (hordein), rye (secalin) and oats (avenin). One region of α-gliadin stimulates membrane cells, enterocytes, of the intestine to allow larger molecules around the sealant between cells. Disruption of tight junctions allow peptides larger than three amino acids to enter the intestinal lining.\nMembrane leaking permits peptides of gliadin that stimulate two levels of immune response, the innate response and the adaptive (T-helper cell mediated) response. One protease-resistant peptide from α-gliadin contains a region that stimulates lymphocytes and results in the release of interleukin-15. This innate response to gliadin results in immune-system signalling that attracts inflammatory cells and increases the release of inflammatory chemicals. The strongest and most common adaptive response to gliadin is directed toward an α2-gliadin fragment of 33 amino acids in length.\n\nThe response to the 33mer occurs in most coeliacs who have a DQ2 isoform. This peptide, when altered by intestinal transglutaminase, has a high density of overlapping T-cell epitopes. This increases the likelihood that the DQ2 isoform will bind and stay bound to peptide when recognised by T-cells. Gliadin in wheat is the best-understood member of this family, but other prolamins exist, and hordein (from barley), secalin (from rye), and avenin (from oats) may contribute to coeliac disease. Avenins toxicity in people with coeliac disease depends on the oat cultivar consumed because of prolamin genes, protein amino acid sequences, and the immunoreactivities of toxic prolamins, which vary among oat varieties.\n\nAnti-transglutaminase antibodies to the enzyme tissue transglutaminase (tTG) are found in the blood of the majority of people with classic symptoms and complete villous atrophy, but only in 70% of the cases with partial villous atrophy and 30% of the cases with minor mucosal lesions. Tissue transglutaminase modifies gluten peptides into a form that may stimulate the immune system more effectively. These peptides are modified by tTG in two ways, deamidation or transamidation.\n\nDeamidation is the reaction by which a glutamate residue is formed by cleavage of the epsilon-amino group of a glutamine side chain. Transamidation, which occurs three times more often than deamidation, is the cross-linking of a glutamine residue from the gliadin peptide to a lysine residue of tTg in a reaction that is catalysed by the transglutaminase. Crosslinking may occur either within or outside the active site of the enzyme. The latter case yields a permanently covalently linked complex between the gliadin and the tTg. This results in the formation of new epitopes believed to trigger the primary immune response by which the autoantibodies against tTg develop.\n\nStored biopsies from people with suspected coeliac disease have revealed that autoantibody deposits in the subclinical coeliacs are detected prior to clinical disease. These deposits are also found in people who present with other autoimmune diseases, anaemia, or malabsorption phenomena at a much increased rate over the normal population. Endomysial components of antibodies (EMA) to tTG are believed to be directed toward cell-surface transglutaminase, and these antibodies are still used in confirming a coeliac disease diagnosis. However, a 2006 study showed that EMA-negative people with coeliac tend to be older males with more severe abdominal symptoms and a lower frequency of \"atypical\" symptoms, including autoimmune disease. In this study, the anti-tTG antibody deposits did not correlate with the severity of villous destruction. These findings, coupled with recent work showing that gliadin has an innate response component, suggest that gliadin may be more responsible for the primary manifestations of coeliac disease, whereas tTG is a bigger factor in secondary effects such as allergic responses and secondary autoimmune diseases. In a large percentage of people with coeliac, the anti-tTG antibodies also recognise a rotavirus protein called VP7. These antibodies stimulate monocyte proliferation, and rotavirus infection might explain some early steps in the cascade of immune cell proliferation.\n\nIndeed, earlier studies of rotavirus damage in the gut showed this causes a villous atrophy. This suggests that viral proteins may take part in the initial flattening and stimulate self-crossreactive anti-VP7 production. Antibodies to VP7 may also slow healing until the gliadin-mediated tTG presentation provides a second source of crossreactive antibodies.\n\nOther intestinal disorders may have biopsy that look like coeliac disease including lesions caused by Candida.\n\nThe inflammatory process, mediated by T cells, leads to disruption of the structure and function of the small bowel's mucosal lining and causes malabsorption as it impairs the body's ability to absorb nutrients, minerals, and fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K from food. Lactose intolerance may be present due to the decreased bowel surface and reduced production of lactase but typically resolves once the condition is treated.\n\nAlternative causes of this tissue damage have been proposed and involve release of interleukin 15 and activation of the innate immune system by a shorter gluten peptide (p31–43/49). This would trigger killing of enterocytes by lymphocytes in the epithelium. The villous atrophy seen on biopsy may also be due to unrelated causes, such as tropical sprue, giardiasis and radiation enteritis. While positive serology and typical biopsy are highly suggestive of coeliac disease, lack of response to diet may require these alternative diagnoses to be considered.\n\nDiagnosis is often very difficult so that most cases are diagnosed with great delay. There are several tests that can be used. The level of symptoms may determine the order of the tests, but \"all\" tests lose their usefulness if the person is already eating a gluten-free diet. Intestinal damage begins to heal within weeks of gluten being removed from the diet, and antibody levels decline over months. For those who have already started on a gluten-free diet, it may be necessary to perform a rechallenge with some gluten-containing food in one meal a day over 6 weeks before repeating the investigations.\n\nSerological blood tests are the first-line investigation required to make a diagnosis of coeliac disease. Its sensitivity correlates with the degree of histological lesions. People who present minor damage of the small intestine may have seronegative findings so many patients with coeliac disease often are missed. In patients with villous atrophy, anti-endomysial (EMA) antibodies of the immunoglobulin A (IgA) type can detect coeliac disease with a sensitivity and specificity of 90% and 99%, respectively. Serology for anti-transglutaminase antibodies (anti-tTG) was initially reported to have a higher sensitivity (99%) and specificity (>90%). However, it is now thought to have similar characteristics to anti-endomysial antibody. Both anti-transglutaminase and anti-endomysial antibodies have high sensitivity to diagnose people with classic symptoms and complete villous atrophy, but they are only found in 30–89% of the cases with partial villous atrophy and in less than 50% of the people who have minor mucosal lesions (duodenal lymphocytosis) with normal villi.\n\nTissue transglutaminase modifies gluten peptides into a form that may stimulate the immune system more effectively. These peptides are modified by tTG in two ways, deamidation or transamidation. Modern anti-tTG assays rely on a human recombinant protein as an antigen. tTG testing should be done first as it is an easier test to perform. An equivocal result on tTG testing should be followed by anti-endomysial antibodies.\n\nGuidelines recommend that a total serum IgA level is checked in parallel, as people with coeliac with IgA deficiency may be unable to produce the antibodies on which these tests depend (\"false negative\"). In those people, IgG antibodies against transglutaminase (IgG-tTG) may be diagnostic.\n\nIf all these antibodies are negative, then anti-DGP antibodies (antibodies against deamidated gliadin peptides) should be determined. IgG class anti-DGP antibodies may be useful in people with IgA deficiency. In children younger than two years, anti-DGP antibodies perform better than anti-endomysial and anti-transglutaminase antibodies tests.\n\nBecause of the major implications of a diagnosis of coeliac disease, professional guidelines recommend that a positive blood test is still followed by an endoscopy/gastroscopy and biopsy. A negative serology test may still be followed by a recommendation for endoscopy and duodenal biopsy if clinical suspicion remains high.\n\nHistorically three other antibodies were measured: anti-reticulin (ARA), anti-gliadin (AGA) and anti-endomysial (EMA) antibodies. ARA testing, however, is not accurate enough for routine diagnostic use. Serology may be unreliable in young children, with anti-gliadin performing somewhat better than other tests in children under five. Serology tests are based on indirect immunofluorescence (reticulin, gliadin and endomysium) or ELISA (gliadin or tissue transglutaminase, tTG).\n\nOther antibodies such as anti–Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies occur in some people with coeliac disease but also occur in other autoimmune disorders and about 5% of those who donate blood.\n\nAntibody testing may be combined with HLA testing if the diagnosis is unclear. TGA and EMA testing are the most sensitive serum antibody tests, but as a negative HLA-DQ type excludes the diagnosis of coeliac disease, testing also for HLA-DQ2 or DQ8 maximises sensitivity and negative predictive values. However, widespread use of HLA typing to rule out coeliac disease is not currently recommended.\n\nAn upper endoscopy with biopsy of the duodenum (beyond the duodenal bulb) or jejunum is performed to obtain multiple samples (four to eight) from the duodenum. Not all areas may be equally affected; if biopsies are taken from healthy bowel tissue, the result would be a false negative. Even in the same bioptic fragment, different degrees of\ndamage may be present.\n\nMost people with coeliac disease have a small intestine that appears to be normal on endoscopy before the biopsies are examined. However, five findings have been associated with a high specificity for coeliac disease: scalloping of the small bowel folds (\"pictured\"), paucity in the folds, a mosaic pattern to the mucosa (described as a \"cracked-mud\" appearance), prominence of the submucosa blood vessels, and a nodular pattern to the mucosa.\n\nEuropean guidelines suggest that in children and adolescents with symptoms compatible with coeliac disease, the diagnosis can be made without the need for intestinal biopsy if anti-tTG antibodies titres are very high (10 times the upper limit of normal).\n\nUntil the 1970s, biopsies were obtained using metal capsules attached to a suction device. The capsule was swallowed and allowed to pass into the small intestine. After x-ray verification of its position, suction was applied to collect part of the intestinal wall inside the capsule. Often-utilised capsule systems were the Watson capsule and the Crosby–Kugler capsule. This method has now been largely replaced by fibre-optic endoscopy, which carries a higher sensitivity and a lower frequency of errors.\n\nCapsule endoscopy (CE) allows identification of typical mucosal changes observed in coeliac disease but has a lower sensitivity compared to regular endoscopy and histology. CE is therefore not the primary diagnostic tool for coeliac disease. However, CE can be used for diagnosing T-cell lymphoma, ulcerative jejunoileitis and adenocarcinoma in refractory or complicated coeliac disease.\n\nThe classic pathology changes of coeliac disease in the small bowel are categorised by the \"Marsh classification\":\n\nMarsh's classification, introduced in 1992, was subsequently modified in 1999 to six stages, where the previous stage 3 was split in three substages. Further studies demonstrated that this system was not always reliable and that the changes observed in coeliac disease could be described in one of three stages:\n\nThe changes classically improve or reverse after gluten is removed from the diet. However, most guidelines do not recommend a repeat biopsy unless there is no improvement in the symptoms on diet. In some cases, a deliberate gluten challenge, followed by biopsy, may be conducted to confirm or refute the diagnosis. A normal biopsy and normal serology after challenge indicates the diagnosis may have been incorrect.\n\nIn untreated coeliac disease, villous atrophy is more common in children younger than three years, but in older children and adults, it is common to find minor intestinal lesions (duodenal lymphocytosis) with normal intestinal villi.\n\nAt the time of diagnosis, further investigations may be performed to identify complications, such as iron deficiency (by full blood count and iron studies), folic acid and vitamin B deficiency and hypocalcaemia (low calcium levels, often due to decreased vitamin D levels). Thyroid function tests may be requested during blood tests to identify hypothyroidism, which is more common in people with coeliac disease.\n\nOsteopenia and osteoporosis, mildly and severely reduced bone mineral density, are often present in people with coeliac disease, and investigations to measure bone density may be performed at diagnosis, such as dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanning, to identify risk of fracture and need for bone protection medication.\n\nAlthough blood antibody tests, biopsies, and genetic tests usually provide a clear diagnosis, occasionally the response to gluten withdrawal on a gluten-free diet is needed to support the diagnosis. Currently, gluten challenge is no longer required to confirm the diagnosis in patients with intestinal lesions compatible with coeliac disease and a positive response to a gluten-free diet. Nevertheless, in some cases, a gluten challenge with a subsequent biopsy may be useful to support the diagnosis, for example in people with a high suspicion for coeliac disease, without a biopsy confirmation, who have negative blood antibodies and are already on a gluten-free diet. Gluten challenge is discouraged before the age of 5 years and during pubertal growth. The alternative diagnosis of non-coeliac gluten sensitivity may be made where there is only symptomatic evidence of gluten sensitivity. Gastrointestinal and extraintestinal symptoms of people with non-coeliac gluten sensitivity can be similar to those of coeliac disease, and improve when gluten is removed from the diet, after coeliac disease and wheat allergy are reasonably excluded.\n\nUp to 30% of people often continue having or redeveloping symptoms after starting a gluten-free diet. A careful interpretation of the symptomatic response is needed, as a lack of response in a person with coeliac disease may be due to continued ingestion of small amounts of gluten, either voluntary or inadvertent, or be due to other commonly associated conditions such as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), lactose intolerance, fructose, sucrose, and sorbitol malabsorption, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, and microscopic colitis, among others. In untreated coeliac disease, these are often transient conditions derived from the intestinal damage. They normally revert or improve several months after starting a gluten-free diet, but may need temporary interventions such as supplementation with pancreatic enzymes, dietary restrictions of lactose, fructose, sucrose or sorbitol containing foods, or treatment with oral antibiotics in the case of associated bacterial overgrowth. In addition to gluten withdrawal, some people need to follow a low-FODMAPs diet or avoid consumption of commercial gluten-free products, which are usually rich in preservatives and additives (such as sulfites, glutamates, nitrates and benzoates) and might have a role in triggering functional gastrointestinal symptoms.\n\nThere is debate as to the benefits of screening. As of 2017, the United States Preventive Services Task Force found insufficient evidence to make a recommendation among those without symptoms. In the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) recommend testing for coeliac disease in first-degree relatives of those with the disease already confirmed, in people with persistent fatigue, abdominal or gastrointestinal symptoms, faltering growth, unexplained weight loss or iron, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency, severe mouth ulcers, and with diagnoses of type 1 diabetes, autoimmune thyroid disease, and with newly diagnosed chronic fatigue syndrome and irritable bowel syndrome. Dermatitis herpetiformis is included in other recommendations. The NICE also recommend offering serological testing for coeliac disease in people with metabolic bone disease (reduced bone mineral density or osteomalacia), unexplained neurological disorders (such as peripheral neuropathy and ataxia), fertility problems or recurrent miscarriage, persistently raised liver enzymes with unknown cause, dental enamel defects and with diagnose of Down syndrome or Turner syndrome.\n\nSome evidence has found that early detection may decrease the risk of developing health complications, such as osteoporosis, anaemia, and certain types of cancer, neurological disorders, cardiovascular diseases, and reproductive problems. They thus recommend screening in people with certain health problems.\n\nSerology has been proposed as a screening measure, because the presence of antibodies would detect some previously undiagnosed cases of coeliac disease and prevent its complications in those people. However, serologic tests have high sensitivity only in people with total villous atrophy and have very low ability to detect cases with partial villous atrophy or minor intestinal lesions. Testing for coeliac disease may be offered to those with commonly associated conditions.\n\nAt present, the only effective treatment is a lifelong gluten-free diet. No medication exists that prevents damage or prevents the body from attacking the gut when gluten is present. Strict adherence to the diet helps the intestines heal, leading to resolution of all symptoms in most cases and, depending on how soon the diet is begun, can also eliminate the heightened risk of osteoporosis and intestinal cancer and in some cases sterility. The diet can be cumbersome; failure to comply with the diet may cause relapse.\n\nDietitian input is generally requested to ensure the person is aware which foods contain gluten, which foods are safe, and how to have a balanced diet despite the limitations. In many countries, gluten-free products are available on prescription and may be reimbursed by health insurance plans. Gluten-free products are usually more expensive and harder to find than common gluten-containing foods. Since ready-made products often contain traces of gluten, some coeliacs may find it necessary to cook from scratch.\n\nThe term \"gluten-free\" is generally used to indicate a supposed harmless level of gluten rather than a complete absence. The exact level at which gluten is harmless is uncertain and controversial. A recent systematic review tentatively concluded that consumption of less than 10 mg of gluten per day is unlikely to cause histological abnormalities, although it noted that few reliable studies had been done. Regulation of the label \"gluten-free\" varies. In the European Union, the European Commission issued regulations in 2009 limiting the use of \"gluten-free\" labels for food products to those with less than 20 mg/kg of gluten, and \"very low gluten\" labels for those with less than 100 mg/kg. In the United States, the FDA issued regulations in 2013 limiting the use of \"gluten-free\" labels for food products to those with less than 20 ppm of gluten. The current international Codex Alimentarius standard allows for 20 ppm of gluten in so-called \"gluten-free\" foods. Several organisations, such as the Gluten-Free Certification Organization (GFCO), the Celiac Sprue Association (CSA), and the National Foundation for Celiac Awareness (NFCA), also certify products and companies as gluten-free.\n\nGluten-free diet improves healthcare-related quality of life, and strict adherence to the diet gives more benefit than incomplete adherence. Nevertheless, gluten-free diet doesn't completely normalise the quality of life.\n\nBetween 0.3% and 10% of people have refractory disease, which means that they have persistent villous atrophy on a gluten-free diet despite the lack of gluten exposure for more than 12 months. Nevertheless, inadvertent exposure to gluten is the main cause of persistent villous atrophy, and must be ruled out before a diagnosis of refractory disease is made. People with poor basic education and understanding of gluten-free diet often believe that they are strictly following the diet, but are making regular errors. Also, a lack of symptoms is not a reliable indicator of intestinal recuperation.\n\nIf alternative causes of villous atrophy have been eliminated, steroids or immunosuppressants (such as azathioprine) may be considered in this scenario.\n\nRefractory coeliac disease should not be confused with the persistence of symptoms despite gluten withdrawal caused by transient conditions derived from the intestinal damage, which generally revert or improve several months after starting a gluten-free diet, such as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, lactose intolerance, fructose, sucrose, and sorbitol malabsorption, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, and microscopic colitis, among others.\n\nGlobally coeliac diseases affects between 1 in 100 and 1 in 170 people. Rates, however, vary between different regions of the world from as few as 1 in 300 to as many as 1 in 40. In the United States it is thought to affect between 1 in 1750 (defined as clinical disease including dermatitis herpetiformis with limited digestive tract symptoms) to 1 in 105 (defined by presence of IgA TG in blood donors). Due to variable signs and symptoms it is believed that about 85% of people affected are undiagnosed. The percentage of people with clinically diagnosed disease (symptoms prompting diagnostic testing) is 0.05–0.27% in various studies. However, population studies from parts of Europe, India, South America, Australasia and the USA (using serology and biopsy) indicate that the percentage of people with the disease may be between 0.33 and 1.06% in children (but 5.66% in one study of children of the predisposed Sahrawi people) and 0.18–1.2% in adults. Among those in primary care populations who report gastrointestinal symptoms, the rate of coeliac disease is about 3%. The rate amongst adult blood donors in Iran, Israel, Syria and Turkey is 0.60%, 0.64%, 1.61% and 1.15%, respectively.\n\nPeople of African, Japanese and Chinese descent are rarely diagnosed; this reflects a much lower prevalence of the genetic risk factors, such as HLA-B8. People of Indian ancestry seem to have a similar risk to those of Western Caucasian ancestry. Population studies also indicate that a large proportion of coeliacs remain undiagnosed; this is due, in part, to many clinicians being unfamiliar with the condition and also due to the fact it can be asymptomatic. Coeliac disease is slightly more common in women than in men. A large multicentre study in the U.S. found a prevalence of 0.75% in not-at-risk groups, rising to 1.8% in symptomatic people, 2.6% in second-degree relatives (like grandparents, aunt or uncle, grandchildren, etc.) of a person with coeliac disease and 4.5% in first-degree relatives (siblings, parents or children). This profile is similar to the prevalence in Europe. Other populations at increased risk for coeliac disease, with prevalence rates ranging from 5% to 10%, include individuals with Down and Turner syndromes, type 1 diabetes, and autoimmune thyroid disease, including both hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) and hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid).\n\nHistorically, coeliac disease was thought to be rare, with a prevalence of about 0.02%. The reason for the recent increases in the number of reported cases is unclear. It may be at least in part due to changes in diagnostic practice. There also appears to be an approximately 4.5 fold true increase that may be due to less exposure to bacteria and other pathogens in Western environments.\n\nHumans first started to cultivate grains in the Neolithic period (beginning about 9500 BCE) in the Fertile Crescent in Western Asia, and it is likely that coeliac disease did not occur before this time. Aretaeus of Cappadocia, living in the second century in the same area, recorded a malabsorptive syndrome with chronic diarrhoea, causing a debilitation of the whole body. His \"Cœliac Affection\" (\"coeliac\" from Greek κοιλιακός \"koiliakos\", \"abdominal\") gained the attention of Western medicine when Francis Adams presented a translation of Aretaeus's work at the Sydenham Society in 1856. The patient described in Aretaeus' work had stomach pain and was atrophied, pale, feeble and incapable of work. The diarrhoea manifested as loose stools that were white, malodorous and flatulent, and the disease was intractable and liable to periodic return. The problem, Aretaeus believed, was a lack of heat in the stomach necessary to digest the food and a reduced ability to distribute the digestive products throughout the body, this incomplete digestion resulting in the diarrhoea. He regarded this as an affliction of the old and more commonly affecting women, explicitly excluding children. The cause, according to Aretaeus, was sometimes either another chronic disease or even consuming \"a copious draught of cold water.\"\n\nThe paediatrician Samuel Gee gave the first modern-day description of the condition in children in a lecture at Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street, London, in 1887. Gee acknowledged earlier descriptions and terms for the disease and adopted the same term as Aretaeus (coeliac disease). He perceptively stated: \"If the patient can be cured at all, it must be by means of diet.\" Gee recognised that milk intolerance is a problem with coeliac children and that highly starched foods should be avoided. However, he forbade rice, sago, fruit and vegetables, which all would have been safe to eat, and he recommended raw meat as well as thin slices of toasted bread. Gee highlighted particular success with a child \"who was fed upon a quart of the best Dutch mussels daily.\" However, the child could not bear this diet for more than one season.\n\nChristian Archibald Herter, an American physician, wrote a book in 1908 on children with coeliac disease, which he called \"intestinal infantilism.\" He noted their growth was retarded and that fat was better tolerated than carbohydrate. The eponym \"Gee-Herter disease\" was sometimes used to acknowledge both contributions. Sidney V. Haas, an American paediatrician, reported positive effects of a diet of bananas in 1924. This diet remained in vogue until the actual cause of coeliac disease was determined.\n\nWhile a role for carbohydrates had been suspected, the link with wheat was not made until the 1940s by the Dutch paediatrician Dr Willem Karel Dicke. It is likely that clinical improvement of his patients during the Dutch famine of 1944 (during which flour was scarce) may have contributed to his discovery. Dicke noticed that the shortage of bread led to a significant drop in the death rate among children affected by coeliac disease from greater than 35% to essentially zero. He also reported that once wheat was again available after the conflict, the mortality rate soared to previous levels. The link with the gluten component of wheat was made in 1952 by a team from Birmingham, England. Villous atrophy was described by British physician John W. Paulley in 1954 on samples taken at surgery. This paved the way for biopsy samples taken by endoscopy.\n\nThroughout the 1960s, other features of coeliac disease were elucidated. Its hereditary character was recognised in 1965. In 1966, dermatitis herpetiformis was linked to gluten sensitivity.\n\nMay has been designated as \"Coeliac Awareness Month\" by several coeliac organisations.\n\nSpeaking generally, the various denominations of Christians celebrate a Eucharist in which a wafer or small piece of sacramental bread from wheat bread is blessed and then eaten. A typical wafer weighs about half a gram. Wheat flour contains around 10 to 13% gluten, so a single communion wafer may have more than 50 mg of gluten, an amount that harms many people with coeliac, especially if consumed every day (see \"Diet\" above).\n\nMany Christian churches offer their communicants gluten-free alternatives, usually in the form of a rice-based cracker or gluten-free bread. These include the United Methodist, Christian Reformed, Episcopal, the Anglican Church (Church of England, UK) and Lutheran. Catholics may receive from the Chalice alone, or ask for gluten-reduced hosts; gluten-free ones however are not considered to still be wheat bread, and hence invalid matter.\n\nRoman Catholic doctrine states that for a valid Eucharist, the bread to be used at Mass must be made from wheat. Low-gluten hosts meet all of the Catholic Church's requirements, but they are not entirely gluten free. Requests to use rice wafers have been denied.\n\nThe issue is more complex for priests. As a celebrant, a priest is, for the fullness of the sacrifice of the Mass, absolutely required to receive under both species. On 24 July 2003, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith stated, \"Given the centrality of the celebration of the Eucharist in the life of a priest, one must proceed with great caution before admitting to Holy Orders those candidates unable to ingest gluten or alcohol without serious harm.\"\n\nBy January 2004, extremely low-gluten Church-approved hosts had become available in the United States, Italy and Australia. As of July 2017, the Vatican still outlawed the use of gluten-free bread for Holy Communion.\n\nThe Jewish festival of Pesach (Passover) may present problems with its obligation to eat matzo, which is unleavened bread made in a strictly controlled manner from wheat, barley, spelt, oats, or rye. This rules out many other grains that are normally used as substitutes for people with gluten sensitivity, especially for Ashkenazi Jews, who also avoid rice. Many kosher-for-Passover products avoid grains altogether and are therefore gluten-free. Potato starch is the primary starch used to replace the grains.\n\nThe search for environmental factors that could be responsible for genetically susceptible people becoming intolerant to gluten has resulted in increasing research activity looking at gastrointestinal infections. Research published in April 2017 suggests an often symptomless infection with a common strain of reovirus can increase sensitivity to foods such as gluten.\n\nVarious other approaches are being studied that would reduce the need of dieting. All are still under development, and are not expected to be available to the general public for a while.\n\nThree main approaches have been proposed as new therapeutic modalities for coeliac disease: gluten detoxification, modulation of the intestinal permeability, and modulation of the immune response.\n\nUsing genetically engineered wheat species, or wheat species that have been selectively bred to be minimally immunogenic, may allow the consumption of wheat. This, however, could interfere with the effects that gliadin has on the quality of dough. Alternatively, gluten exposure can be minimised by the ingestion of a combination of enzymes (prolyl endopeptidase and a barley glutamine-specific cysteine endopeptidase (EP-B2)) that degrade the putative 33-mer peptide in the duodenum.\n\nAlternative treatments under investigation include the inhibition of zonulin, an endogenous signalling protein linked to increased permeability of the bowel wall and hence increased presentation of gliadin to the immune system. One inhibitor of this pathway is larazotide acetate, which is currently scheduled for phase 3 clinical trials. Other modifiers of other well-understood steps in the pathogenesis of coeliac disease, such as the action of HLA-DQ2 or tissue transglutaminase and the MICA/NKG2D interaction that may be involved in the killing of enterocytes.\n\nAttempts to modulate the immune response with regard to coeliac disease are mostly still in phase I of clinical testing; one agent (CCX282-B) has been evaluated in a phase II clinical trial on the basis of small-intestinal biopsies taken from people with coeliac disease before and after gluten exposure.\n\nAlthough popularly used as an alternative treatment for people with autism, there is no good evidence that a gluten-free diet is of benefit. In the subset of people who have gluten sensitivity there is limited evidence that suggests that a gluten free diet may improve some autistic behaviors.\n\n"}
{"id": "3980048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3980048", "title": "Computational scientist", "text": "Computational scientist\n\nA computational scientist is a person skilled in scientific computing. This person is usually a scientist, an engineer, or an applied mathematician who applies high-performance computers in different ways to advance the state-of-the-art in their respective applied disciplines; physics, chemistry, social sciences and so forth. Thus scientific computing has increasingly influenced many areas such as economics, biology, law and medicine to name a few.\n\n\nwho is the computer scientist"}
{"id": "1688177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688177", "title": "Corner of the Eye", "text": "Corner of the Eye\n\n\"Corner of the Eye\" is an episode of \"The Outer Limits\" television show. It was first broadcast on 19 May 1995 during the first season.\n\nA priest begins to see horrific demon creatures amongst the ordinary population.\n\nFather Anton Jonascu (Len Cariou) begins to have strange hallucinations — one moment he sees perfectly ordinary-looking people, the next they have changed into terrifying demon creatures. He visits Dr. Pallas (Chris Sarandon), and a medical scan reveals an inoperable brain-tumour that seems to be the cause of his hallucinations.\n\nJonascu continues to see the creatures, and finally collapses during a sermon. He returns to the doctor and explains his predicament further. Dr. Pallas injects him with a drug that causes temporary paralysis and explains that he wants to introduce Jonascu to some friends. Pallas opens a door and two of the demon creatures enter... and Pallas also reveals himself as one of them.\n\nAfter Jonascu has calmed down, Pallas and his associates explain that they are not demons, but alien creatures and that all Earth religions are actually based on teachings from their world. They are here to give the power of healing to humanity, but are unable to reveal themselves because their appearance would terrify humans. One of the aliens gives her life to pass on the gift of healing to Jonascu—however, Jonascu is asked not to reveal the aliens' presence or the origin of his gift.\n\nJonascu heals a girl who was badly injured in an accident, and the press finds out making him an instant celebrity. He tries to explain the situation to his skeptical colleague Father Royce (Justin Louis). After a few days, the aliens request that Jonascu call a worldwide press conference to reveal themselves, and they also tell him that he has a betrayer close to him, Father Royce.\n\nFather Royce overhears the aliens plotting to destroy the atmosphere and discussing how to use Jonascu; but they catch and kill him.\n\nJonascu finds Royce's body, but is stopped from calling the police by Pallas. Pallas explains that he was not there when Royce died and could not help him... and that he died from an embolism, the same cause of death of another person involved with the aliens.\n\nJonascu goes to the morgue where Royce's body is kept and uses his healing ability to revive Royce. He then goes to the press conference with Royce to stop the Aliens. Father Jonascu dies after a fight ensues between him and Pallas leaving Royce as the sole human survivor of the power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28020883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28020883", "title": "Death of Khaled Mohamed Saeed", "text": "Death of Khaled Mohamed Saeed\n\nKhaled Mohamed Saeed ( ; 27 January 1982 – 6 June 2010) was an Egyptian man whose death in police custody in the Sidi Gaber area of Alexandria on 6 June 2010 helped incite the Egyptian Revolution of 2011. Photos of his disfigured corpse spread throughout online communities and incited outrage over allegations that he was beaten to death by Egyptian security forces. A prominent Facebook group, \"We are all Khaled Said\", moderated by Wael Ghonim, brought attention to his death and contributed to growing discontent in the weeks leading up to the Egyptian Revolution of 2011. In October 2011, two Egyptian police officers were found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to seven years in prison for beating Saeed to death. They were granted a retrial and sentenced to ten years in prison on 3 March 2014.\n\nSaeed was raised by his mother and the rest of his extended family after the death of his father when he was young. Showing an interest in computers, he stayed for some time and studied computer programming in the United States. He also loved music and had been composing a musical piece before his death.\n\nOn 6 June 2010, Saeed had been sitting on the second floor of a cybercafe. Two detectives from the Sidi Gaber police station entered the premises and arrested him.\n\nMultiple witnesses testified that Saeed was beaten to death by the police, who reportedly hit him and smashed him against objects as he was led outside to their police car. The owner of the internet cafe in which Saeed was arrested stated that he witnessed Saeed being beaten to death in the doorway of the building across the street after the detectives took him out of the cafe at the owner's request.\n\nIn a filmed interview posted online by a leading opposition party, cafe owner Hassan Mosbah described the beating. \"They dragged him to the adjacent building and banged his head against an iron door, the steps of the staircase and walls of the building... Two doctors happened to be there and tried in vain to revive him but (the police) continued beating him... They continued to beat him even when he was dead.\" This description given by the owner was confirmed by the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights.\n\nThe police reported that Saeed suffocated in an attempt to swallow a packet of hashish, a claim supported by two autopsy reports made by Forensic Authorities. The police further stated that Saeed was \"wanted for theft and weapons possession and that he resisted arrest\".\n\nFormer chief medical examiner of Egypt, Ayman Fouda, was interviewed about the proper procedure that should have been followed for Saeed's autopsy. He stated that the \"mechanics of the injuries\" that Saeed had sustained should have been investigated and his brain should have also been tested to see whether he had suffered a concussion. The medical examiner who conducted the autopsy had done neither.\n\nThe two police officers were later jailed for four days pending questioning on beatings that they allegedly carried out on Saeed. Saeed's family members stated that Saeed was \"tortured to death for possessing video material that implicates members of the police in a drug deal\".\n\nWhen Saaed's family visited his body in the morgue, his brother snapped pictures of the corpse using his mobile phone. The photo of Saeed's corpse was released onto the internet by Saeed's family in June 2010, causing a large outcry. Human Rights Watch released a press report about the photo that stated, \"Photos of Said's battered and deformed face published on the internet show a fractured skull, dislocated jaw, broken nose, and numerous other signs of trauma.\" and also that the image clearly showed \"strong evidence that plainclothes security officers beat him in a vicious and public manner\".\n\nAmong those who saw the photo, was Google marketing executive Wael Ghonim. Ghonim was located in Dubai at the time of the incident and decided to create a Facebook memorial page for Said, called \"We are all Khaled Said\" within five days of his death. The page attracted hundreds of thousands of followers, becoming Egypt's biggest dissident Facebook page. Support for Said rapidly spread, with many Facebook members using his photograph for their own profiles. In mid-June, the Facebook page had already 130,000 members that were active. Because of the photo and the heavy amount of international criticism that arose from the incident, the Egyptian government consented to a trial for the two detectives involved in his death.\n\nOn January 27, 2011, the administrator of the webpage, Wael Ghonim was arrested for 12 days. Egypt also blocked nearly all access to the internet throughout the country. Ghonim wanted to remain anonymous but could not avoid Egyptian security forces. It later became apparent that Wael recruited an Egyptian political activist named AbdulRahman Mansour to become his co-admin. Both administrators received the credit for the creation of the site. Under the anonymous name \"el shaheed\" (\"the martyr\"), they were able to post and moderate the Arabic Facebook page. The involvement of Abdul Rahman Mansour in the creation of this page caused great controversy because he was a member of the January 25 coalition as well as the author of an article on the Muslim Brotherhood English website titled, \"Mastermind Behind Egypt Uprising\" This controversy revealed that Abdul Rahman Mansour previously had involvement with the Muslim brotherhood. In a 2011 interview, Ghonim blamed the regime for the people's anger, saying that blocking access to Facebook made them even angrier and led them to protests in the streets.\n\nThe administrator's role in running this page, according to Iskander, included a number of important functions, such as being: \"the gatekeeper, flag bearer, spokesperson, democrat, motivator, mobilizer, and the source of general inspiration and appeal for the page. In addition to being the liaison between members, the admin is also the link and mediator between the members and the architecture of the page, which in this case is Facebook as an organization. His/her task is to keep everyone energized and inspiringly engaged.\"\n\nThe profile photograph promoting the page was a smiling photograph of Khaled Said which portrayed his middle class status and young innocence. The Facebook page existed in both Arabic and English, ensuring international exposure. Police forces were put under the spotlight because the webpage was advocating the fight against police brutality. By doing this, police forces became hesitant with their actions knowing that the Facebook page was being used to document their flaws and overuse of force.\n\nOn 25 June 2010, Mohamed ElBaradei, former head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, led a rally in Alexandria against alleged abuses by the police and visited Saeed's family to offer condolences. Protests over Saeed's death also occurred in Cairo's Tahrir Square and in front of the Egyptian Embassy in London. Thirty of the protesters in Tahrir Square were arrested by Central Security officers after the \"security personnel vigorously beat back the crowds to keep them from reaching the ministry building.\"\n\nOne of the earliest pre-revolution articles to link the death of Saeed to an imminent nationwide explosion came from Saeed's neighbor, Egyptian-Australian Amro Ali. In an opinion piece titled \"Egypt's Collision Course with History\", Ali writes an intimate portrayal of Saeed and the Alexandria context, as well as the ramifications of his death for the regime. Ali states \"Saeed's tragedy is Egypt's tragedy. A young man, neither a political activist nor religious radical, but an ordinary Egyptian whose accused actions could not in any way warrant his lynching. Saeed was someone's son, someone's brother, someone's friend, someone's neighbour, someone's customer, and if not for what had happened, someone's future. Saeed was, in the local vernacular, a son of Cleopatra [Saeed's suburb]. Yet the system that was supposed to protect him and give him his rights, took away those rights by taking away his life... It is one extra nail in the coffin of the ever-widening gulf between the ruler and ruled... What the Egyptian establishment maybe forgetting... is that pigeons come home to roost more than once.\" Ali would later publish a personal and analytical account in Jadaliyya on the second anniversary of Saeed's death: \"Saeeds of Revolution: De-Mythologizing Khaled Saeed\". As well as analysing what really happened to Saeed, Ali also examines the dynamics of how Saeed was rapidly mythologized and the ramifications it has produced in Egyptian society.\n\nWhile the actual impact of Ghonim's site cannot be determined, it was Ghonim who first published a call to protest on 25 January, to the followers of his blog, and protesters carried banners and posters displaying the photograph of Saaed's corpse. This has been named one of the catalysts of the 2011 Egyptian protests, as an instance in which people formed a community around opposition to police brutality and, by extension, other government abuses. On 11 February 2011, these protests resulted in the resignation of Hosni Mubarak after 30 years in power. ABC News characterized Saaed in his morgue photo as \"The Face That Launched a Revolution\". \"The Washington Post\" wrote that \"Had it not been for a leaked morgue photo of his mangled corpse, tenacious relatives and the power of Facebook, the death of Khaled Said would have become a footnote in the annals of Egyptian police brutality. Instead, outrage over the beating death of the 28-year-old man in this coastal city last summer, and attempts by local authorities to cover it up, helped spark the mass protests demanding the ouster of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.\"\n\nThe investigation into Saeed's death yielded 300 papers, analysis and testimony which informed the decision to charge both police officers, Mahmoud Salah Mahmoud and Awad Ismael Suleiman, in criminal court with use of violence and unjustified detention of the victim. They were detained in July 2010, and the trial began in July but was postponed and did not resume until February 2011 when it was postponed again.\n\nOn 24 September 2011, Alexandria's criminal court adjourned the trial until 22 October 2011 as Judge Moussa al-Nahrawy decided to postpone the case to allow both the plaintiff's and the defendants' lawyers to review the report of a third forensic committee, whose formation the court had ordered in June 2011.\n\nOn 26 October 2011, both defendants were found guilty of manslaughter and were sentenced to seven years. Human rights activists, such as the Egyptian Organization for Human Rights, objected to the short sentences. The two officers were convicted of using excessive force which killed Saeed but were not convicted of the more serious charge of \"torture with the purpose of killing\" which is a capital crime. Organizations such as the April 6 Youth Movement and the 25 Revolution Youth Union also criticized the verdict for its leniency. The prosecution and defence both appealed the sentence and a retrial was ordered. On 3 March 2014, Alexandria criminal court increased the punishment by three years sentencing the two police officers to ten years in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55417629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55417629", "title": "Deaths of John and Joyce Sheridan", "text": "Deaths of John and Joyce Sheridan\n\nOn September 28, 2014, John Sheridan, a former New Jersey Transportation Commissioner and health care executive, was found dead along with his wife Joyce in their Skillman home. Firefighters found their bodies in the house's master bedroom after putting out a fire there. Both had suffered stab wounds which were found to have killed them; the case was initially believed by the Somerset County prosecutor's office to have been a murder-suicide.\n\nSix months later, prosecutor Geoffrey Soriano made that conclusion official in a public report. However, even before its release, the Sheridans' sons, led by Mark, who at the time served as chief counsel to the state's Republican Party, had challenged that. Based on a second autopsy done by Michael Baden, who wrote his own report, they believed it was more likely that their parents had been killed by an intruder who set the fire in an attempt to destroy evidence.\n\nThe Sheridan sons vowed to have the finding overturned, and exercised considerable political influence to do so. A 2016 open letter to newly appointed state medical examiner Andrew Falzon supporting a change in the finding was signed by 200 prominent state residents, including three former governors and two former state attorneys general. In 2017 Falzon officially changed the manner of John Sheridan's death from suicide to undetermined.\n\nTheir efforts to change the verdict revealed a number of deficiencies in the state's medical examiner system generally and the investigation of the Sheridan's deaths specifically. Before Falzon's appointment, the position had been vacant for six years following the resignation of a predecessor who had resigned out of frustration with the system and himself replaced another predecessor who resigned for the same reason. The pathologist who performed the autopsies on the Sheridans was not board certified, had resigned from a previous position due to a failure to inform police about a changed autopsy finding, and may have yielded to pressure from the prosecutor's office. One of the detectives who had initially been part of the investigation filed a whistleblower lawsuit, later dismissed, alleging he had been subject to retaliation after he had complained about how evidence related to the case was either mishandled or destroyed.\n\nJohn Sheridan, a senior partner in the Morristown law firm of Riker, Danzig, Scherer, Hyland & Perretti, was a lifelong Republican whose career in New Jersey state government during the 1970s had culminated in his service as Transportation Commissioner in the cabinet of Governor Thomas Kean from 1982 to 1985. In that capacity he had overseen the transfer of commuter rail service in the state from federally-owned Conrail to the newly created New Jersey Transit Rail Operations. He later served on the transition teams for Republican governors Christine Whitman and Chris Christie following their elections.\n\nHe and his wife Joyce had settled in Skillman, an affluent section of Montgomery Township in Somerset County, a short distance north of Princeton. There they had raised four sons, twins Mark and Matt, and Dan and Jim. Mark himself followed in his father's footsteps, reaching the level of senior partner in the global Squire Patton Boggs law firm and serving as chief counsel to New Jersey's Republican Party.\n\nIn 2005 he had left Riker Danzig to take over as chief executive officer of Cooper University Hospital in Camden. Working together with the chairman of the hospital's board, George Norcross, a prominent Democratic leader in South Jersey, he oversaw an expansion of the hospital into what is today called Cooper Health System. The new facilities included a four-year medical college and cancer center.\n\nShortly before dawn on September 28, 2014, local firefighters responded to a report of flames at the Sheridans' house on Meadow Run Drive. Smoke was coming from one area of the second floor that turned out to be the master bedroom. After entering through the unlocked front door, the firefighters went upstairs and easily put out the fire, fueled by gasoline that had been poured on the floor as an accelerant. Also on the floor, they found the bodies of John and Joyce, lying face up. John was pronounced dead at the scene, as was Joyce after her body was taken to University Medical Center of Princeton at Plainsboro.\n\nThe can from which the gas had been poured also was nearby, along with matches and knives. A heavy wooden armoire had fallen across John Sheridan's body, breaking several of his ribs; his wife had suffered first- and second-degree burns over many parts of her body. There were stab wounds on both bodies.\n\nJoyce Sheridan's body had 12 stab wounds, mostly on her head and hands. One that pierced her aorta was found to be the lethal wound; her death was thus called a homicide. John had only five such wounds, mostly on his neck and torso; soot was found in his lungs during the autopsy, suggesting he had been alive when the fire started. The medical examiner deferred listing a cause of death \"pending further investigation.\"\n\nA week later, a memorial service was held for John and Joyce at Patriot's Theater at the Trenton War Memorial. The family was joined by hundreds of mourners, including Governor Christie and his predecessors Thomas Kean, Christie Whitman and Democrat Jim Florio. Many of the public officials present praised John Sheridan's career and accomplishments. \"The city of Camden is a different place because of his vision,\" Norcross said. The actual funeral was private.\n\nThe investigators clashed with the Sheridan family from the morning the bodies were found. Responding firefighters notified Matt Sheridan, who lived at the house with his parents but was away from it on a fishing trip on Fishers Island off the coast of Connecticut, from which he began making his own way home. He in turn called his twin brother Mark, a senior partner in the Newark office of the global law firm Squire Patton Boggs celebrating his wedding anniversary with his wife at a hotel on New York's Upper East Side, who drove down to the house. When he arrived he found it surrounded with crime scene tape and was not allowed in.\n\nAfter Matt Sheridan arrived, police found a small quantity of cocaine in his car. He was also in possession of a digital scale and plastic bags coated with white powder on the inside. They put him under arrest, but did not charge him at that time.\n\nOn Mark's way there, he picked up his brother Tim and learned that Somerset County prosecutor Geoffrey Soriano was on the scene. Since he did not know Soriano personally, he called Chris Porrino, chief counsel to Governor Christie (and later the state's attorney general), who had appointed Soriano. Mark knew Porrino from his own work as chief counsel to the state's Republican Party. Soriano called him as he arrived at the scene and told him that the fire appeared to be arson and that John and Joyce had been fatally stabbed.\n\nThe Sheridans, all of whom made their way to the scene of the fire that morning, assumed that their parents had been killed by an intruder and that police would be searching for who might have done it. However, within a week, Soriano's office made statements reassuring the public that there was no danger of further attacks. \"We are quite confident that there exists no threat to either the immediate neighborhood or to the local community,\" his spokesman said.\n\nAt a meeting with Mark, Soriano explained how investigators had come to murder-suicide as the most likely explanation for the couple's deaths. John Sheridan's body, he told Mark, had hesitation wounds, commonly found on people committing suicide by cutting themselves. Soriano told Mark that detectives would be looking through the couple's phones, emails and other records for evidence of extramarital affairs, financial problems or domestic violence that might explain a murder-suicide, and which he believed from his experience would turn up.\n\nAll the Sheridan brothers found the theory highly doubtful. They knew their parents well and had seen no sign of any issues between them that might have led to such a violent end. They hired Michael Baden, a well-known former forensic pathologist who had been the chief medical examiner for New York City and had hosted HBO's \"Autopsy\", to assist and consult with deputy state medical examiner Eddy Lilavois.\n\nBaden and Lilavois agreed that the stab wounds to both bodies had been caused by the same knife. They could not determine whether that knife was one of the two recovered at the scene, both kitchen knives. One, in fact, was designed for slicing bread and therefore had a serrated blade with a rounded tip, features that would not have made it the best choice for stabbing someone. It was likelier that it had been a third knife which had perhaps not yet been found.\n\nIn addition to going through the Sheridans' records, detectives interviewed 180 friends, family and coworkers. Those efforts turned up nothing suggesting any major issues with either of them that could have prompted the crime. The only sign that either of them might have had some reason to be unhappy was from John's job. According to Cooper's chief counsel, Gary Lesneski, John was worried about the effect an upcoming state report on high fatality rates at the hospital's cardiac unit, a report they expected to be very negative, might have on the hospital. But Lesneski said he had left it as a work issue for the weekend, and one of his last emails, a lengthy response to a question from Norcross written the evening before the fire, was well-composed and lengthy, typical of Sheridan and showing no sign its author was emotionally distressed.\n\nThe toxicology report on John and Joyce yielded no new information. John's blood had the signs of the heart medication he took, and Joyce had a high level of prescription painkillers. This was due to the continuing consequences of a fall she incurred in her last year of work as a schoolteacher, around 1999, that had injured her back and required multiple surgeries and orthopedic treatments. \"Mom was on enough meds to kill a small farm animal,\" Mark Sheridan later told \"The New York Times Magazine\".\n\nDNA from the blood on the knives was tested, but did not reveal anything conclusive. The amount collected was insufficient to test for anything more than the racial characteristics and gender of the source. The blood on them had come from a white male.\n\nDuring the investigation, the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" filed a lawsuit seeking disclosure of the case reports and other records related to it. The court sided with the state and kept them sealed.\n\nAround the time of Mark Sheridan's meeting with Soriano, he and his brothers were allowed to re-enter the house as the investigation of the scene had concluded. In the master bedroom, where the fire had been, they found a melted lump of metal next to where their father's body had been found. What it had been was not certain, but the brothers believed it might have been the third knife, although it could have been a knob from the armoire as well.\n\nIf it was, it was not part of the set of knives in the kitchen from which the other two had come. Their blades were made from alloys that required high temperatures to melt, temperatures that would only be achieved in a structure fire if it burned the whole house, or at least the whole room. That had not been the case with the Sheridan house, where the fire only damaged part of the room. John Sheridan's undershirt, which he was wearing when he died, was only charred, not burned. Mark Sheridan sent Soriano a lengthy email expressing his frustration with this and other apparent failures of the investigation.\n\nThe melted metal object was not the only item of evidence that the Sheridans believed investigators had overlooked. A month after the fire, an insurance adjuster inspecting the house found a fireplace poker in the adjoining bedroom, odd since the house has no upstairs fireplace. The brothers theorized that that could have been the cause of John Sheridan's broken ribs instead of the falling armoire.\n\nIn late March, Soriano released his office's report on the death of John Sheridan. It found no evidence of an intruder, and concluded that he and Joyce were the only ones in the house. Instead of being undetermined, his death was now considered a suicide.\n\nSoriano said detectives had conducted 180 interviews and looked through all the couple's records. It quoted some unnamed witnesses describing John as \"'disproportionately concerned,' 'genuinely worried' and 'overly worried' \" about the upcoming state report on the cardiac unit's problems. Reportedly he was planning a meeting with some coworkers at the hospital the day he died.\n\nRobbery was ruled out as a motive since nearly a thousand dollars in cash remained on a nightstand; jewelry and prescription drugs that might have been of interest to a thief had also not been taken. The house had not been forcibly entered, nor had neighbors reported any prowlers in the area before or immediately after the fire. DNA from the blood on the knife, Soriano wrote, was consistent with John Sheridan.\n\nBased on the lack of evidence for other theories, and the five hesitation wounds, Soriano concluded that the deaths had, as investigators originally believed, been a murder-suicide. His report did not speculate on how the Sheridans came to end their lives that way, whether it had been planned (as the presence of the gas can, brought up from the basement to start the fire, and the kitchen knives suggested might have been the case) or the result of a sudden impulso or fight between the couple, or what the motive might have been. A single wound to the jugular vein, in conjunction with smoke inhalation from the fire, was given as the cause of death.\n\nIn the one interview he has given about the report, Soriano dismissed the melted piece of metal the brothers found. \"I don't know what it is. It could have been anything\" he told \"Star-Ledger\" columnist Tom Moran. \"What we tried to do was gather all the relevant evidence\", he said when asked about the report's failure to convincingly identify a motive. \"I don't know what else was going on in his life.\"\n\nMark Sheridan had been in regular contact with Soriano and was able to review the report in its final drafts before it was made public. He strongly disagreed with its conclusions, and expressed that opinion in news coverage. \"\"To be clear, we do not have answers to what happened to our parents,\" he said in a statement on behalf of himself and his brothers. \"Based on the evidence, neither do the investigators.\"\n\n\"I've said to the prosecutor, 'It's bad enough you’re calling my father a murderer, but you're also calling him a moron, as though he weren't smart enough to work this out.' \" If his father genuinely wanted to kill himself and his wife, Mark said later, he would have planned it in such a way as to leave no doubt. Other members of the family agreed. \"The prosecutor's conclusion destroyed their legacy and the good that John and Joyce had done in their lives\", said John's brother Peter, a federal judge.\n\nIn addition to the uncertainties created by the metal object and the poker found later, the brothers believe it was impossible for the crime to have been committed as the prosecutor imagined it had. They had, in private conversations, considered the possibility that their mother, known to be more prone to angry outbursts than her husband, might have initiated something which escalated into what the firefighters found. But, they realized, the Joyce would have had to raise her hands above her shoulders to inflict her husband's fatal wound, and with her chronic upper-back pain from her injury it would have been unlikely that she could have, or that if she had she would not have been able to strike with sufficient force.\n\nBaden, in an affidavit filed with the brothers' later court action, went further in his criticisms of the prosecutor's conclusions. John had not shown any signs of suicidal ideations or depression before his death, he noted. None of the knives present could have caused any of his thin and deep wounds, not even the purported hesitation wounds, he claimed (nor did he believe the melted metal had been a knife). The angle of John's neck wound, downward and slightly forward, was also consistent with being attacked. And if John had stabbed Joyce, some of her blood should have been on him, but none was.\n\nWhile Baden did not feel the evidence necessarily pointed to an intruder, he did say some evidence supported that conclusion. Blood spatter on the walls was consistent with an attack, and contrary to Soriano's assertion that the stabbing had been confined to the Sheridans' bedroom, there was blood on the wall near the top of the stair. The injuries to John's upper body, including the broken ribs, could just as easily have resulted from being struck repeatedly with the poker as from the armoire falling on him. He also had had a chipped front tooth not noted in the initial autopsy report, but without the bruises on the face that would be expected if the armoire had caused it.\n\nBaden also had his colleague Henry Lee review the results from the DNA on the knives. While Soriano had said was consistent with John Sheridan, the lab report had only said that due to the minimal amount available it could only be determined with certainty to have come from a white male. Lee told Baden that they had a genetic pattern that did not match any male member of the Sheridan family.\n\nBaden believed it was more likely that both Sheridans were victims of a homicide, perhaps by someone who intended to kill them both or a burglar caught unawares. \"If it's murder-suicide, it's a very unusual murder-suicide\", he told the \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" in 2016. However, he said the evidence was not strong enough to call the case a homicide, instead advocating for it to be changed to \"undetermined\".\n\nDennis Cogan, a former Philadelphia prosecutor turned defense attorney who reviewed Baden's affidavit for the \"Inquirer\", agreed. \"The missing knife is so overwhelming that there's a third person who did this,\" he said. He believed that Soriano and his investigators had attempted to make whatever facts they found fit their original theory rather than following them where they led.\n\nAs a result of his discontent with Soriano's conclusions, Mark Sheridan decided to step down as the chief counsel for the New Jersey Republican Party so he could concentrate on reversing them (although he continued to represent the party and Governor Christie's office in some matters related to the George Washington Bridge scandal). He vowed to use the influence he had to block Soriano's reappointment to the prosecutor's office in the coming fall. The family offered $250,000 for any information leading to the identity or arrest of whoever had killed John and Joyce.\n\nMark also connected his parents' case to the general problems of New Jersey's medical examiner system. \"[It's] a disaster, an embarrassment. MEs should not be under the attorney general or law enforcement. They should not be agents of the state\", he told \"The Star-Ledger\". Some of the state's former chief medical examiners agreed with him.\n\nAt the time of John and Joyce's deaths, the position of chief medical examiner, in fact, had been vacant for six years (without someone even being designated acting chief). Victor Weedn, the previous chief, had resigned in 2009, telling Governor Jon Corzine that he found the experience \"disappointing\" and lacking the statutorily required oversight from the Attorney General and the state's Division of Criminal Justice. He noted that all but the first two chief medical examiners appointed since the position had been created late in the 20th century had similarly resigned in frustration. A new chief medical examiner, Andrew Falzon, was appointed by Governor Christie in June 2015.\n\nProblems with the system were worse at lower levels in ways that may have directly affected the Sheridan case. The Northern Regional Medical Examiner's office, under whose auspices Lilavois worked, had failed to achieve reaccreditation by the National Association of Medical Examiners in 2012. Among the failings noted, one of the most serious was that the toxicology lab, which served the entire state, had let its accreditation by the College of American Pathologists lapse in 2009, and was not then listed as certified to conduct testing by the American Board of Forensic Toxicology.\n\nLilavois himself was not board certified in forensic pathology, although he had been performing autopsies since 1997. He had come to work for New Jersey after resigning from the New York City medical examiner's office following an incident where he had revised a finding of death in the case of a Queens three-year-old from homicide by blunt force to natural death by brain aneurysm. However, despite making the change three weeks after the original autopsy following a review with a colleague, he did not notify either the police or the child's family for almost a year; both learned of the change only when the \"New York Daily News\" obtained a copy of the amended death certificate as part of its reporting on the case. In the interim police had continued to investigate the case as a homicide, and the boy's parents had gotten divorced, with the father viewed by everyone as having killed his son.\n\nBecause of the vacant state medical examiner position, no one supervised Lilavois' autopsy of John Sheridan. Mark believes that that might be the reason the pathologist's report misstates his father's height, weight and age. In later comments on the case, Weedn says it would not have mattered even if there had been a chief medical examiner, since the state medical examiner has no statutory or regulatory oversight authority over county or regional medical examiners, who are appointed by county governments. \"The state medical examiner is merely a figurehead\", said Faruk Presswala, Weedn's predecessor, who also resigned over that.\n\nSheridan also faulted Lilavois's lack of independence from the prosecutor's office. He noted in a letter to John Jay Hoffman, then the state's Acting Attorney General, that Lilavois had met with Soriano three times before the prosecutor issues his final report, and did not issue his pathological finding until just before the report was published. According to Sheridan the county prosecutor held those meetings to convince Lilavois to rule the case a murder-suicide.\n\nWeedn says New Jersey's medical examiners need to be under the jurisdiction of an independent office not under law enforcement jurisdiction. \"People get rewarded for convictions, they get raises and promotions. There is an essential bias\" argues Lawrence Kobilinsky, chair of the science department at John Jay College of Criminal Justice and chair of the Northeastern Association of Forensic Scientists. While law enforcement and medical examiners do need to be able to communicate and coordinate their efforts, the latter should be under the jurisdiction of a state's health department to remain independent. \"It is essential that these organizations remain independent of each other\", Kobilinsky told the \"Star-Ledger\".\n\nThere was some backlash from the Sheridans' criticism. Following Mark's comments in news stories criticizing both Soriano and his report, Raymond Bateman, a former State Senate president and the Republican Party's 1977 gubernatorial candidate, wrote an op-ed piece in the \"Home News Tribune\", Middlesex County's daily newspaper, defending Soriano. Bateman's son Christopher, who had followed his father into the State Senate, had sponsored Soriano's nomination.\n\nBateman took it as an established fact that John Sheridan, whom he knew from his own days in the State Senate, was mentally ill in some way when he died. He compared him to Andreas Lubitz, the pilot who shortly before the report's release had deliberately crashed a Germanwings flight into the side of a French mountain, killing 149 passengers and crew in addition to himself, and was later found to have been suffering from depression severe enough that he feared losing his commercial pilot's license. \"As I write with tears about my friend, John,\" Bateman wrote, \"I recognize that mental depression must just completely overwhelm a person's normal judgment.\"\n\nAlthough he had agreed with Sheridan about the failings of the state medical examiner system, Weedn defended Lilavois' conclusion. Based on reviewing the autopsy reports, he found the couple's injuries \"more consistent as a generality with a murder-suicide\", although he qualified that by saying he had not seen the photos. Weedn said it was unlikely that a burglar or intruder would have confronted the Sheridans in their bedroom; such struggles usually occur on the ground floor of a house closer to any entrance that might have been used. He agreed that the possibility of homicide could not be ruled out, particularly if the blade used could not be found.\n\nIn December 2014 Mark and his brothers had sent Baden's affidavit to the state's and chief medical examiner, asking that their father's cause of death be recorded as undetermined. They received no reply, and over the next few months let the state know that if John Sheridan was officially ruled to have taken his own life, they would file a lawsuit. After Soriano's report was released, they did.\nThe state's initial response was to move that the suit be dismissed for lack of standing. \"No legal basis exists to compel a medical examiner to change his opinion about manner of death\", the Attorney General's office wrote in its response. A three-judge panel ruled that the case should be filed against the medical examiner's office.\n\nWhile that suit was pending, two other developments occurred in early 2016 that supported the Sheridans' cause. In February a group of 200 prominent state residents, including three former governors, two former attorneys general, a former justice of the state Supreme Court and many lawyers, signed an open letter asking the medical examiner to change the finding. Three months later, a Somerset County detective filed a whistleblower lawsuit claiming that \"It was common knowledge among detectives assigned to the Forensic Unit that the Sheridan evidence was improperly collected, improperly preserved and subsequently destroyed\" and that he had been retaliated against for complaining about this.\n\nSpecifically, Detective Jeffrey Scozzafava's suit alleged that:\nWhen he pointed these failures out, the detective said, he was reassigned to a unit dealing with fugitives, a less prestigious position. He later claimed to have seen the Forensics Unit's supervisor throwing the improperly collected and stored evidence in the garbage during 2015.\n\nIn January 2017, the Sheridans prevailed. State medical examiner Andrew Falzon, after reviewing the evidence, changed the manner of John Sheridan's death from suicide to undetermined. While Falzon still said he believed the wounds were self-inflicted, \"no weapon was recovered from the scene that could be conclusively associated with the wounds sustained by Mr. Sheridan.\" The damage to the scene caused by the fire further compounded the difficulty of reconstructing events that night. Mark Sheridan said that while the family felt vindicated by the change, \"we have a long way yet to go\". They called for the case to be reopened and reinvestigated.\n\nAt the same time, Soczzafava's suit was dismissed after oral argument. The county had argued that his claim was really motivated by \"being assigned a Chevrolet rather than a Dodge\" and that since he still worked full-time in the prosecutor's office he had not been harmed. Scozzafava's lawyer said his client planned to appeal.\n\nWhile the brothers' suit was pending, in February 2016, Christie, himself a former federal prosecutor, decided not to reappoint Soriano to a second term, saying later he had \"lost confidence\" in him. News stories about the move cited not only the Sheridan case, but other recent cases in which Soriano's office had come in for criticism. He was replaced by Michael Robertson, also a former federal prosecutor, who had served under Christie when the governor was United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey.\n\n\"It's long overdue that someone took charge of that office,\" Mark Sheridan said, upon being informed by a reporter. \"I think there has been a long history of failures [there].\" However, state senator Christopher Bateman, who had recommended Soriano to Christie at the beginning of the governor's terms, was disappointed. Although the governor had denied to him the Sheridan case had anything to do with his decision to replace Soriano, \" the timing is just too coincidental\", coming so soon after the open letter. \"He did the best he could with the Sheridan investigation. If it came down to that, it's wrong.\" By that fall, Soriano had been hired as one of the state's assistant attorneys general.\n\nTwo months later, Matt Sheridan was indicted by a Middlesex County grand jury on the cocaine possession charge that had led to his arrest on the morning of his parents' deaths a year and a half earlier. Despite having expressed discontent with his twin brother for this having happened, Mark accused the prosecutor's office of having sought the charge only as retaliation for the family's efforts to change John's death certificate. He claimed that this violated a promise that had been made by Soriano shortly after the deaths. Due to the conflicts between the family and the prosecutor's office, the case was handled by the Middlesex County prosecutor's office, although any trial would take place in Somerset County.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820047", "title": "Dysgenics", "text": "Dysgenics\n\nDysgenics (rarely cacogenics) is the study of factors producing the accumulation and perpetuation of defective or disadvantageous genes and traits in offspring of a particular population or species.\n\nThe adjective \"dysgenic\" is the antonym of \"eugenic\". It was first used 1915 by David Starr Jordan, describing the supposed dysgenic effects of World War I. Jordan believed that healthy men were as likely to die in modern warfare as anyone else and that war killed only the physically healthy men of the populace whilst preserving the disabled at home.\n\nDysgenic mutations have been studied in animals such as the mouse and the fruit fly.\n\nIn the context of human genetics, a dysgenic effect is the projected or observed tendency of\na reduction in selection pressures and decreased infant mortality since the Industrial Revolution resulting in the increased propagation of deleterious traits and genetic disorders. Richard Lynn in his \"\" (1996) identified three main concerns: deterioration in health, in intelligence, and in conscientiousness.\n\nRui Nunes wrote that dysgenics is the selection of genetic traits that are \"commonly accepted as a disabling condition,\" and like eugenics, dysgenics can be positively selected or negatively selected. Nunes defined positive dysgenics as a selection that increases the number of individuals with dysgenic traits, while negative dysgenics is the discarding of genetics that cause disability.\n\nImproved medical and social care may possibly lead to increased incidence of genetic disorders. Practices such as genetic counselling and prenatal screening may counteract this effect.\n\nLynn argued that natural selection in pre-industrial societies favored traits such as intelligence and character but no longer does so in modern societies.\nThe hypothesized dysgenic decline in human intelligence is traced to a change in the distribution in fertility and intelligence by Woodley (2015).\n\nLynn (1996) has received both favourable and unfavourable reviews.\n\nLynn and Harvey (2008) suggest that designer babies may have an important counter-acting effect in the future. Initially this may be limited to wealthy couples, who may possibly travel abroad for the procedure if prohibited in their own country and then gradually spread to increasingly larger groups. Alternatively, authoritarian states may decide to impose measures such as a licensing requirement for having a child, which would only be given to persons of a certain minimum intelligence. The Chinese one-child policy was an example of how fertility can be regulated by authoritarian means. Geoffrey Miller claims the one-child policy was implemented to reduce China's population explosion, and \"to reduce dysgenic fertility among rural peasants.\" While the one-child policy made exceptions for rural families so that those families could have 2 children, this only applied \"if their first-born is a girl.\"\n\nCyril M. Kornbluth's 1951 short story \"The Marching Morons\" is an example of dysgenic fiction, describing a man who accidentally ends up in the distant future and discovers that dysgenics has resulted in mass stupidity. Mike Judge's 2006 film \"Idiocracy\" has the same premise, with the main character the subject of a military hibernation experiment that goes awry, taking him 500 years into the future. While in the Kornbluth short story, civilization is kept afloat by a small group of dedicated geniuses, voluntary childlessness wipes out the bloodlines of above-average intelligence and leaves only automated systems to fill that role in \"Idiocracy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29698161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29698161", "title": "Edinburgh BioQuarter", "text": "Edinburgh BioQuarter\n\nThe Edinburgh BioQuarter is a bioscience community based near the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and the Queen's Medical Research Centre in Edinburgh, close to the Roslin Institute for Animal Biology. It is Scotland's key initiative in the development of its life sciences industry, which employs more than 30,000 people in 600 companies.\n\nIn 2007, Scottish Enterprise completed a series of land deals which cleared a 55-acre site for development adjacent to the existing Royal Infimary of Edinburgh and the creation of the BioQuarter was announced. In early 2010, Dr Mike Capaldi joined BioQuarter as Commercialisation Director and the development of an executive team and business creation programme were launched.\n\nThe key partners in the Edinburgh BioQuarter initiative are Scottish Enterprise/Scottish Development International, the University of Edinburgh and NHS Lothian.\n\nFrom 2011, it will be joined at this location by the Scottish Centre for Regenerative Medicine, giving the BioQuarter one of the highest concentrations of research classed officially by the government as \"internationally leading\" (four-star, according to the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise).\n\nEdinburgh BioQuarter currently co-locates a 1000+-bed teaching hospital, the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, with the Queen’s Medical Research Institute (ranked #1 in the UK for clinical medical research, according to the 2008 research assessment exercise) and the Clinical Research Imaging Centre, or CRIC, opened by HM the Duke of Edinburgh in late 2010.\n\nOver the last three years, Edinburgh has attracted 53% of all Wellcome Trust grants in Scotland and 62% of Medical Research Council (MRC) funding in Scotland, making it a major centre of research income.\n\nIn November 2011, a new bioincubator building will come on stream offering of office and laboratory space, as well as the new Scottish Centre for Regenerative Medicine (SCRM), headed by Professor Sir Ian Wilmut, creator of \"Dolly the Sheep.\" This new centre will apply Scotland’s world-leading stem cell research to new therapies for conditions such as Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis and other conditions.\n\nIn September 2010, author JK Rowling endowed research at the BioQuarter with a £10 million gift to create the Anne Rowling Centre for Multiple Sclerosis.\n\nBy 2016, the new Royal Hospital for Children and Young People will be located at the BioQuarter, together with the Scottish Mind and Body Institute, a cross-disciplinary centre aimed at finding cures or therapies for neurological conditions.\n\nPart of BioQuarter’s purpose is to create new companies based on medical research being undertaken in the NHS and at the University of Edinburgh. For this purpose it has created an innovation competition, offering prizes worth £45,000 to researchers in all disciplines at the University of Edinburgh and NHS Lothian. The first round of these prizes will be awarded in March 2011.\n\nCompanies currently located at or associated with the BioQuarter community include:\n\n\nFurther companies are expected to join the BioQuarter community over the next twelve months as the process of company formation gathers pace. In addition, licensing deals and other partnerships with major international pharmaceutical companies and equipment manufacturers will add to the number of organisations housed at the BioQuarter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1777946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777946", "title": "Ferdinand of Majorca", "text": "Ferdinand of Majorca\n\nFerdinand of Majorca (; 1278, Perpignan – 5 July 1316, Glarentza) was an \"infante\" of the Kingdom of Majorca as the third son of King James II. He was Viscount of Aumelas and Lord of Frontignan from 1311 and claimed the title of Prince of Achaea from 1315.\n\nHe was sent by Frederick III of Sicily to take command of the Catalan Company in Frederick's name, but was rebuffed by Bernat de Rocafort, one of their leaders. On his return with the chronicler Ramón Muntaner, he was captured by the Venetians at Negroponte. He had been released by 1310, when he distinguished himself at the siege of Almería by killing the son of the King of Guadix.\n\nIn 1313, he returned to Sicily to take part in the war then in hand with the Angevins and was created Lord of Catania. Margaret of Villehardouin was then in Sicily, seeking to advance her claim to the Principality of Achaea. She gave her daughter Isabella of Sabran to Ferdinand in marriage and resigned Akova and her claim on Achaea to the couple, who were married in Messina. Margaret died in March 1315 in captivity in Chlemoutsi, and her daughter on 7 May 1315 in Catania, shortly after bearing a son, James III of Majorca.\n\nShortly after her death, Ferdinand set out with a small company for the Morea to uphold the claim now held by his son. He seized Clarenza in June 1315 and briefly took control of the Morea. In the autumn of 1315 he took a second wife, Isabella of Ibelin, daughter of the Seneschal of Cyprus. However, his rival claimant Matilda of Hainaut, and her husband Louis of Burgundy returned to the Morea in the spring of 1316 with Venetian aid. Ferdinand's expected aid from Majorca and Sicily was tardy, as was that of the Catalan Company from Athens. Facing superior numbers, he was killed at the Battle of Manolada on July 5, 1316. He was succeeded as heir presumptive of Majorca by his elder son, the future King James III, and as Viscount of Aumelas by his posthumous son, Ferdinand.\n\n"}
{"id": "30624689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30624689", "title": "Francis Balfour (medical officer)", "text": "Francis Balfour (medical officer)\n\nFrancis Balfour ( – 7 May 1818) was a Scottish medical officer and medical author who lived and worked primarily in British India.\n\nBalfour was born in Fife, the third son of Army officer Arthur Balfour, the great-grandson of the 3rd Lord Balfour of Burleigh by his second son, Lt. Col. John Balfour. Lt. Col. John Balfour was attainted for his role in the Jacobite rising of 1715, and his lands forefeited. King George II restored the Fernie estate to Arthur in 1739.\n\nHe was awarded his M.D. degree by Edinburgh University in 1767; his thesis was titled \"De Gonorrhea virulenta\". He entered the East India Company's service in Bengal as assistant-surgeon on 3 July 1769, was appointed full surgeon on 10 August 1777, and retired from the service on 16 September 1807. He afterwards returned to Edinburgh.\n\nBalfour lived for several years on terms of some intimacy with Warren Hastings. He dedicated a book — \"The Forms of Herkern\" — to him in 1781, and addressed him a letter in the same year complaining of the want of courtesy shown him by other officials in the East India service at Lucknow. In May, June, and July 1783, Balfour, while at Benares, corresponded frequently with Hastings in an abortive attempt to disclose a plot between the resident of Benares, Francis Fowke, and Rajah Cheyte Sing, which he claimed to have discovered. Balfour not only interested himself in politics and medicine, but devoted much time to Oriental studies.\n\n\"The Forms of Herkern . . . translated into English\", was published at Calcutta in 1781, and republished in London in 1804. It is a state letter-writer in Persian; a vocabulary is given by the translator at the end. Balfour was one of the earliest members of the Bengal Asiatic Society, founded, under the presidency of Sir William Jones and the patronage of Warren Hastings, in 1784. To the 'Asiatic Researches' ('Transactions of the Bengal Asiatic Society') Balfour contributed in 1790 a paper on Arabic roots, showing how the Arabic language had entered into the Persian and the language of Hindostan, and in 1805 a paper entitled 'Extracts from Tehzeebul Mantik; or the Essence of Logic, proposed as a small supplement to Arabic and Persian Grammar, and with a view to elucidate certain points connected with Oriental Literature'.\n\nBalfour married a cousin, Emilia Balfour, in Madras in 1777. He succeeded to the Fernie estate following the death of his brother. He died there in 1818.\n\n"}
{"id": "455401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455401", "title": "Frankenstein's monster", "text": "Frankenstein's monster\n\nFrankenstein's monster, often erroneously referred to as \"Frankenstein\", is a fictional character who first appeared in Mary Shelley's 1818 novel \"Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus\". Shelley's title thus compares the monster's creator, Victor Frankenstein, to the mythological character Prometheus, who fashioned humans out of clay and gave them fire. \n\nIn Shelley's Gothic story, Victor Frankenstein builds the creature in his laboratory through an ambiguous method consisting of chemistry and alchemy. Shelley describes the monster as , hideously ugly, but sensitive and emotional. The monster attempts to fit into human society but is shunned, which leads him to seek revenge against Frankenstein. According to the scholar Joseph Carroll, the monster occupies \"a border territory between the characteristics that typically define protagonists and antagonists\".\n\nMary Shelley's original novel never ascribes an actual name to the monster; although when speaking to his creator, Victor Frankenstein, the monster does say \"I ought to be thy Adam\" (in reference to the first man created in the Bible). Victor refers to his creation as \"creature\", \"fiend\", \"spectre\", \"the demon\", \"wretch\", \"devil\", \"thing\", \"being\", and \"ogre\".\n\nIt has become common to refer to the creature by the name \"Frankenstein\" or \"The Monster\" but neither of these names is apparent in the book.\n\nAs in Shelley's story, the creature's namelessness became a central part of the stage adaptations in London and Paris during the decades after the novel's first appearance. In 1823, Shelley herself attended a performance of Richard Brinsley Peake's \"Presumption\", the first successful stage adaptation of her novel. \"The play bill amused me extremely, for in the list of dramatis personae came _________, by Mr T. Cooke,\" she wrote to her friend Leigh Hunt. \"This nameless mode of naming the unnameable is rather good.\"\n\nWithin a decade of publication, the name of the creator—Frankenstein—was used to refer to the creature, but it did not become firmly established until much later. The story was adapted for the stage in 1927 by Peggy Webling, and Webling's Victor Frankenstein does give the creature his name. However, the creature has no name in the Universal film series starring Boris Karloff during the 1930s, which was largely based upon Webling's play. The 1931 Universal film treated the creature's identity in a similar way as Shelley's novel: in the opening credits, the character is referred to merely as \"The Monster\" (the actor's name is replaced by a question mark, but Karloff is listed in the closing credits). Nevertheless, the creature soon enough became best known in the popular imagination as \"Frankenstein\". This usage is sometimes considered erroneous, but some usage commentators regard the monster sense of \"Frankenstein\" as well-established and not an error.\n\nModern practice varies somewhat. For example, in \"Dean Koontz's Frankenstein\", first published in 2004, the creature is named \"Deucalion\", after the character from Greek Mythology, who is the son of the titan Prometheus, a reference to the original novel's title. Another example is the second episode of Showtime's \"Penny Dreadful\", which first aired in 2014; Victor Frankenstein briefly considers naming his creation \"Adam\", before deciding instead to let the monster \"pick his own name\". Thumbing through a book of the works of William Shakespeare, the monster chooses \"Proteus\" from \"The Two Gentlemen of Verona\". It is later revealed that Proteus is actually the \"second\" monster Frankenstein has created, with the first, abandoned creation having been named \"Caliban\", from \"The Tempest\", by the theatre actor who took him in and later, after leaving the theatre, named himself after the English poet John Clare.\n\nAs told by Mary Shelley, Victor Frankenstein builds the creature in the attic of his boarding house through an ambiguously described scientific method consisting of chemistry (from his time as a student at University of Ingolstadt) and alchemy (largely based on the writings of Paracelsus, Albertus Magnus, and Cornelius Agrippa). Frankenstein is disgusted by his creation, however, and flees from it in horror. Frightened, and unaware of his own identity, the monster wanders through the wilderness.\n\nHe finds brief solace beside a remote cottage inhabited by a family of peasants. Eavesdropping, the creature familiarizes himself with their lives and learns to speak, whereby he becomes eloquent, educated, and well-mannered. The creature eventually introduces himself to the family's blind father, who treats him with kindness. When the rest of the family returns, however, they are frightened of him and drive him away. Hopeful but bewildered, the creature rescues a peasant girl from a river but is shot in the shoulder by a man who claims her. He finds Frankenstein's journal in the pocket of the jacket he found in the laboratory, and swears revenge on his creator for leaving him alone in a world that hates him.\n\nThe monster kills Victor's younger brother William upon learning of the boy's relation to his hated creator. When Frankenstein retreats to the mountains, the monster approaches him at the summit and asks his creator to build him a female mate. In return, he promises to disappear with his mate and never trouble humankind again; the monster then threatens to destroy everything Frankenstein holds dear should he fail. Frankenstein agrees and builds a female creature, but, aghast at the possibility of creating a race of monsters, destroys his experiment. In response, the monster kills Frankenstein's best friend Henry Clerval, and later kills Frankenstein's bride Elizabeth Lavenza on their wedding night; whereupon Frankenstein's father dies of grief. Frankenstein dedicates himself to destroying his creation. Searching for the monster in the Arctic Circle, Frankenstein falls into the freezing water, contracting severe pneumonia. A ship exploring the region encounters the dying Frankenstein, who relates his story to the ship's captain, Robert Walton. Later, the monster boards the ship; but, upon finding Frankenstein dead, is overcome by grief and pledges to incinerate himself at \"the Northernmost extremity of the globe\". He then departs, never to be seen again.\n\nShelley described Frankenstein's monster as an creature of hideous contrasts:His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly whiteness; but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.A picture of the creature appeared in the 1831 edition. Early stage portrayals dressed him in a toga, shaded, along with the monster's skin, a pale blue. Throughout the 19th century, the monster's image remained variable according to the artist.\n\nThe best-known image of Frankenstein's monster in popular culture derives from Boris Karloff's portrayal in the 1931 movie \"Frankenstein,\" in which he wore makeup applied, and according to a format designed by, Jack P. Pierce and possibly suggested by director James Whale. Universal Studios, which released the film, was quick to secure ownership of the copyright for the makeup format. Karloff played the monster in two more Universal films, \"Bride of Frankenstein\" and \"Son of Frankenstein\"; Lon Chaney, Jr. took over the part from Karloff in \"The Ghost of Frankenstein;\" Bela Lugosi portrayed the role in \"Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man;\" and Glenn Strange played the monster in the last three Universal Studios films to feature the character - \"House of Frankenstein,\" \"House of Dracula,\" and \"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein.\" But their makeup replicated the iconic look first worn by Karloff. To this day, the image of Karloff's face is owned by his daughter's company, Karloff Enterprises, for which Universal replaced Karloff's features with Glenn Strange's in most of their marketing.\n\nSince Karloff's portrayal, the creature almost always appears as a towering, undead-like figure, often with a flat-topped angular head and bolts on his neck to serve as electrical connectors or grotesque electrodes. He wears a dark, usually tattered, suit having shortened coat sleeves and thick, heavy boots, causing him to walk with an awkward, stiff-legged gait (as opposed to the novel, in which he is described as much more flexible than a human). The tone of his skin varies (although shades of green or gray are common), and his body appears stitched together at certain parts (such as around the neck and joints). This image has influenced the creation of other fictional characters, such as the Hulk.\n\nIn the 1973 TV mini-series \",\" a different approach was taken in depicting the monster: Michael Sarrazin appears as a strikingly handsome man who later degenerates into a grotesque monster due to a flaw in the creation process.\n\nIn the 1994 film \"Mary Shelley's Frankenstein,\" the creature is played by Robert De Niro in a nearer approach to the original source, except this version gives the creature balding grey hair and a body covered in bloody stitches. He is, as in the novel, motivated by pain and loneliness. In this version, Frankenstein gives the monster the brain of his mentor, Doctor Waldman, while his body is made from a man who killed Waldman while resisting a vaccination. The monster retains Waldman's \"trace memories\" that apparently help him quickly learn to speak and read.\n\nIn the 2004 film \"Van Helsing,\" the monster is shown in a modernized version of the Karloff design. He is tall, has a square bald head, gruesome scars, and pale green skin. The electricity is emphasized with one electrified dome in the back of his head and another over his heart. It also has hydraulic pistons in its legs, essentially rendering the design as a steam-punk cyborg. Although not as eloquent as in the novel, this version of the creature is intelligent and relatively nonviolent.\n\nIn 2004, a TV mini-series adaptation of \"Frankenstein\" was made by Hallmark. Luke Goss plays The Creature. This adaptation more closely resembles the monster as described in the novel: intelligent and articulate, with flowing, dark hair and watery eyes.\n\nThe 2014 TV series \"Penny Dreadful\" also rejects the Karloff design in favor of Shelley's description. This version of the creature has the flowing dark hair described by Shelley, although he departs from her description by having pale grey skin and obvious scars along the right side of his face. In this series, the monster names himself \"Caliban\", after the character in William Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\". In the series, Victor Frankenstein makes a second and third creature, each more indistinguishable from normal human beings.\n\nAs depicted by Shelley, the monster is a sensitive, emotional creature whose only aim is to share his life with another sentient being like himself. The novel and film versions portrayed him as versed in \"Paradise Lost\", \"Plutarch's Lives\", and \"The Sorrows of Young Werther\".\n\nFrom the beginning, the monster is rejected by everyone he meets. He realizes from the moment of his \"birth\" that even his own creator cannot stand being around him; this is obvious when Frankenstein says \"…one hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I escaped…\". Upon seeing his own reflection, he realizes that he too cannot stand to see himself. His greatest desire is to find love and acceptance; but when that desire is denied, he swears revenge on his creator.\n\nContrary to many film versions, the creature in the novel is very articulate and eloquent in his way of speaking. Almost immediately after his creation, he dresses himself; and within 11 months, he can speak and read German and French. By the end of the novel, the creature appears able to speak English fluently as well. The \"Van Helsing\" and \"Penny Dreadful\" interpretations of the character have similar personalities to the literary original, although the latter version is the only one to retain the character's violent reactions to rejection.\n\nIn the 1931 film adaptation, the monster is depicted as mute and bestial; it is implied that this is because he is accidentally implanted with a criminal's \"abnormal\" brain. In the subsequent sequel, \"Bride of Frankenstein\", the monster learns to speak, albeit in short, stunted sentences. In the second sequel, \"Son of Frankenstein\", the creature is again rendered inarticulate. Following a brain transplant in the third sequel, \"The Ghost of Frankenstein\", the monster speaks with the voice and personality of the brain donor. This was continued after a fashion in the scripting for the fourth sequel, \"Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man\", but the dialogue was excised before release. The monster was effectively mute in later sequels, though he is heard to refer to Count Dracula as his \"master\" in \"Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein\". The monster is often portrayed as being afraid of fire.\n\nScholars sometimes look for deeper meaning in Shelley’s story, and have analogized the monster to a motherless child; Shelley’s own mother died while giving birth to her. The monster has also been analogized to an oppressed class; Shelley wrote that the monster recognized \"the division of property, of immense wealth and squalid poverty.\" Others see in the monster the tragic results of uncontrolled scientific progress, especially as at the time of publishing, Galvanism had convinced many scientists that raising the dead through use of electrical currents was a scientific possibility.\n\nAnother proposal is that the character of Dr. Frankenstein was based upon a real scientist who had a similar name, and who had been called a modern Prometheus--Benjamin Franklin. Accordingly, the monster would represent the new nation that Franklin helped to create out of remnants left by England. Victor Frankenstein's father \"made also a kite, with a wire and string, which drew down that fluid from the clouds,\" wrote Shelley, similar to Franklin's famous kite experiment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3288827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288827", "title": "Future Evolution", "text": "Future Evolution\n\nFuture Evolution is a book written by paleontologist Peter Ward and illustrated by Alexis Rockman. He addresses his own opinion of future evolution and compares it with Dougal Dixon's \"\" and H. G. Wells's \"The Time Machine\".\n\nAccording to Ward, humanity may exist for a long time. Nevertheless, we are impacting our world. He splits his book in different chronologies, starting with the near future (the next 1,000 years). Humanity would be struggling to support a massive population of 11 billion. Global warming raises sea levels. The ozone layer weakens. Most of the available land is devoted to agriculture due to the demand for food. Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish. This is, according to Ward, an era of extinction that would last about 10 million years (note that many human-caused extinctions have already occurred). After that, the world gets stranger.\n\nWard labels the species that have the potential to survive in a human-infested world. These include dandelions, raccoons, owls, pigs, cattle, rats, snakes, and crows to name but a few. In the human-infested ecosystem, those preadapted to live amongst man survived and prospered. Ward describes garbage dumps in the future infested with multiple species of rats, a snake with a sticky frog-like tongue to snap up rodents, and pigs with snouts specialized for rooting through garbage. The story's time traveller who views this new refuse-covered habitat is gruesomely attacked by ravenous flesh-eating crows.\n\nWard then questions the potential for humanity to evolve into a new species. According to him, this is incredibly unlikely. For this to happen a human population must isolate itself and interbreed until it becomes a new species. Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17417722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17417722", "title": "George Exoo", "text": "George Exoo\n\nGeorge David Exoo (August 22, 1942–May 26, 2015) was an Ohio-born Unitarian Universalist minister and assisted suicide activist. He was originally a Methodist and had a doctorate in music history from University of California, Berkeley. He became a Unitarian Universalist minister in 1973, but did not appear to be in ministry at the time of his death. \n\nHe began his involvement with assisted suicide after a member of his congregation made remarks about a man he'd counselled who had committed suicide. In 1982 he joined the Hemlock Society and later he joined Final Exit Network. The first suicide he assisted occurred in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1995. He claimed to have assisted in 102 other suicides.\n\nExoo studied under Wilfred Cantwell Smith at Harvard University, and did his doctoral work in religion and society at the Graduate Theological Union. He was ordained a minister by the Unitarian Universalists. In Charleston, South Carolina, where he led a Unitarian congregation, he distributed free condoms to homosexual men in the 1980s at restrooms at South Carolina freeway rest stops. In August 1989, he visited the New Vrindaban Hare Krishna community in Marshall County, West Virginia, and became attracted by the vision of an interfaith community as described by the community's founder, Kirtanananda Swami Bhaktipada. He moved to the community in June 1990, determined to create a hospice for AIDS victims, and in October 1990, along with two other interfaith residents, incorporated his own church, \"The Interfaith Friends\", a federation of Unitarian-Universalism, Taoism and Quakers. However, by early 1991, he became disturbed by the \"totalitarian control by the Swami\", and the \"lack of integrity, blatant corruption, deceit, theft, and the gross abuse of the mental and physical well being of its own residents.\" Exoo (and his partner Thomas McGurrin, a former Krishna devotee) left the community and moved to Beckley, West Virginia, where he led a Unitarian congregation. In June 1992, \"In Pittsburgh\" magazine published an article by Exoo titled \"The City of Fraud\" in which he told the tale of betrayal and threatened physical harm he experienced while living at the New Vrindaban \"City of God\".\n\nIn January 2002 the Irish authorities wanted Exoo for assisting the suicide of Rosemary Toole. The United States arrested him, but ultimately refused extradition on the grounds that Irish and American law in this area were not compatible. Exoo declined to attend the inquest into Toole's death on legal advice. He stated, however, that it was unlikely he would work with Irish citizens in the future, as he considered it too dangerous.\n\nAlthough he had supporters, there were concerns within the right-to-die community that Exoo assisted suicides of individuals who did not have terminal or debilitating illness.\n\nJon Ronson profiled him in Channel 4 documentary \"Reverend Death\". Exoo claimed to have helped 103 people commit suicide, although Jon Ronson claims that most of Exoo's clients were suffering from depression or psychosomatic illnesses, not terminal illnesses, including Toole.\n\nExoo bought a property in Gastonia, North Carolina, in 2007, with the intent of using part of it as a place for terminally ill patients to end their lives.\n\nExoo died May 26, 2015, at a hospice in Beckley, West Virginia, at the age of 72.\n\n"}
{"id": "67955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67955", "title": "Georges Bizet", "text": "Georges Bizet\n\nGeorges Bizet (; 25 October 18383 June 1875), registered at birth as Alexandre César Léopold Bizet, was a French composer of the Romantic era. Best known for his operas in a career cut short by his early death, Bizet achieved few successes before his final work, \"Carmen\", which has become one of the most popular and frequently performed works in the entire opera repertoire.\n\nDuring a brilliant student career at the Conservatoire de Paris, Bizet won many prizes, including the prestigious Prix de Rome in 1857. He was recognised as an outstanding pianist, though he chose not to capitalise on this skill and rarely performed in public. Returning to Paris after almost three years in Italy, he found that the main Parisian opera theatres preferred the established classical repertoire to the works of newcomers. His keyboard and orchestral compositions were likewise largely ignored; as a result, his career stalled, and he earned his living mainly by arranging and transcribing the music of others. Restless for success, he began many theatrical projects during the 1860s, most of which were abandoned. Neither of his two operas that reached the stage in this time—\"Les pêcheurs de perles\" and \"La jolie fille de Perth\"—were immediately successful.\n\nAfter the Franco-Prussian War of 1870–1871, during which Bizet served in the National Guard, he had little success with his one-act opera \"Djamileh\", though an orchestral suite derived from his incidental music to Alphonse Daudet's play \"L'Arlésienne\" was instantly popular. The production of Bizet's final opera, \"Carmen\", was delayed because of fears that its themes of betrayal and murder would offend audiences. After its premiere on 3 March 1875, Bizet was convinced that the work was a failure; he died of a heart attack three months later, unaware that it would prove a spectacular and enduring success.\n\nBizet's marriage to Geneviève Halévy was intermittently happy and produced one son. After his death, his work, apart from \"Carmen\", was generally neglected. Manuscripts were given away or lost, and published versions of his works were frequently revised and adapted by other hands. He founded no school and had no obvious disciples or successors. After years of neglect, his works began to be performed more frequently in the 20th century. Later commentators have acclaimed him as a composer of brilliance and originality whose premature death was a significant loss to French musical theatre.\n\nGeorges Bizet was born in Paris on 25 October 1838. He was registered as Alexandre César Léopold, but baptised as \"Georges\" on 16 March 1840, and was known by this name for the rest of his life. His father, Adolphe Bizet, had been a hairdresser and wigmaker before becoming a singing teacher despite his lack of formal training. He also composed a few works, including at least one published song. In 1837, Adolphe married Aimée Delsarte, against the wishes of her family who considered him a poor prospect; the Delsartes, though impoverished, were a cultured and highly musical family. Aimée was an accomplished pianist, while her brother François Delsarte was a distinguished singer and teacher who performed at the courts of both Louis Philippe and Napoleon III. François Delsarte's wife Rosine, a musical prodigy, had been an assistant professor of solfège at the Conservatoire de Paris at the age of 13. At least one author has alleged that his mother was from a Jewish family but this is not substantiated in any of his official biographies.\n\nGeorges, an only child, showed early aptitude for music and quickly picked up the basics of musical notation from his mother, who probably gave him his first piano lessons. By listening at the door of the room where Adolphe conducted his classes, Georges learned to sing difficult songs accurately from memory and developed an ability to identify and analyse complex chordal structures. This precocity convinced his ambitious parents that he was ready to begin studying at the Conservatoire even though he was still only nine years old (the minimum entry age was 10). Georges was interviewed by Joseph Meifred, the horn virtuoso who was a member of the Conservatoire's Committee of Studies. Meifred was so struck by the boy's demonstration of his skills that he waived the age rule and offered to take him as soon as a place became available.\n\nBizet was admitted to the Conservatoire on 9 October 1848, two weeks before his 10th birthday. He made an early impression; within six months he had won first prize in solfège, a feat that impressed Pierre-Joseph-Guillaume Zimmerman, the Conservatoire's former professor of piano. Zimmerman gave Bizet private lessons in counterpoint and fugue, which continued until the old man's death in 1853. Through these classes, Bizet met Zimmerman's son-in-law, the composer Charles Gounod, who became a lasting influence on the young pupil's musical style—although their relationship was often strained in later years. He also met another of Gounod's young students, the 13-year-old Camille Saint-Saëns, who remained a firm friend of Bizet's. Under the tuition of Antoine François Marmontel, the Conservatoire's professor of piano, Bizet's pianism developed rapidly; he won the Conservatoire's second prize for piano in 1851, and first prize the following year. Bizet would later write to Marmontel: \"In your class one learns something besides the piano; one becomes a musician\". At the end of his first year, Bizet was required to submit a religious composition, but due to his atheism, he declined and wrote instead an opera, \"The Pearlfishers\", which was accepted by the committee.\n\nBizet's first preserved compositions, two wordless songs for soprano, date from around 1850. In 1853, he joined Fromental Halévy's composition class and began to produce works of increasing sophistication and quality. Two of his songs, \"Petite Marguerite\" and \"La Rose et l'abeille\", were published in 1854. In 1855, he wrote an ambitious overture for a large orchestra, and prepared four-hand piano versions of two of Gounod's works: the opera \"La nonne sanglante\" and the Symphony in D. Bizet's work on the Gounod symphony inspired him, shortly after his seventeenth birthday, to write his own symphony, which bore a close resemblance to Gounod's—note for note in some passages. Bizet's symphony was subsequently lost, rediscovered in 1933 and finally performed in 1935.\n\nIn 1856, Bizet competed for the prestigious Prix de Rome. His entry was not successful, but nor were any of the others; the musician's prize was not awarded that year. After this rebuff, Bizet entered an opera competition which Jacques Offenbach had organised for young composers, with a prize of 1,200 francs. The challenge was to set the one-act libretto of \"Le docteur Miracle\" by Léon Battu and Ludovic Halévy. The prize was awarded jointly to Bizet and Charles Lecocq, a compromise which years later Lecocq criticised on the grounds of the jury's manipulation by Fromental Halévy in favour of Bizet. As a result of his success, Bizet became a regular guest at Offenbach's Friday evening parties, where among other musicians he met the aged Gioachino Rossini, who presented the young man with a signed photograph. Bizet was a great admirer of Rossini's music, and wrote not long after their first meeting that \"Rossini is the greatest of them all, because like Mozart, he has all the virtues\".\n\nFor his 1857 Prix de Rome entry, Bizet, with Gounod's enthusiastic approval, chose to set the cantata \"Clovis et Clotilde\" by Amédée Burion. Bizet was awarded the prize after a ballot of the members of the Académie des Beaux-Arts overturned the judges' initial decision, which was in favour of the oboist Charles Colin. Under the terms of the award, Bizet received a financial grant for five years, the first two to be spent in Rome, the third in Germany and the final two in Paris. The only other requirement was the submission each year of an \"envoi\", a piece of original work to the satisfaction of the Académie. Before his departure for Rome in December 1857, Bizet's prize cantata was performed at the Académie to an enthusiastic reception.\n\nOn 27 January 1858, Bizet arrived at the Villa Medici, a 16th-century palace that since 1803 had housed the French Académie in Rome and which he described in a letter home as \"paradise\". Under its director, the painter Jean-Victor Schnetz, the villa provided an ideal environment in which Bizet and his fellow-laureates could pursue their artistic endeavours. Bizet relished the convivial atmosphere, and quickly involved himself in the distractions of its social life; in his first six months in Rome, his only composition was a \"Te Deum\" written for the Rodrigues Prize, a competition for a new religious work open to Prix de Rome winners. This piece failed to impress the judges, who awarded the prize to Adrien Barthe, the only other entrant. Bizet was discouraged to the extent that he vowed to write no more religious music. His \"Te Deum\" remained forgotten and unpublished until 1971.\n\nThrough the winter of 1858–59, Bizet worked on his first envoi, an opera buffa setting of Carlo Cambiaggio's libretto \"Don Procopio\". Under the terms of his prize, Bizet's first envoi was supposed to be a mass, but after his \"Te Deum\" experience, he was averse to writing religious music. He was apprehensive about how this breach of the rules would be received at the Académie, but their response to \"Don Procopio\" was initially positive, with praise for the composer's \"easy and brilliant touch\" and \"youthful and bold style\".\n\nFor his second envoi, not wishing to test the Académie's tolerance too far, Bizet proposed to submit a quasi-religious work in the form of a secular mass on a text by Horace. This work, entitled \"Carmen Saeculare\", was intended as a song to Apollo and Diana. No trace exists, and it is unlikely that Bizet ever started it. A tendency to conceive ambitious projects, only to quickly abandon them, became a feature of Bizet's Rome years; in addition to \"Carmen Saeculare\", he considered and discarded at least five opera projects, two attempts at a symphony, and a symphonic ode on the theme of Ulysses and Circe. After \"Don Procopio\", Bizet completed only one further work in Rome, the symphonic poem \"Vasco da Gama\". This replaced \"Carmen Saeculare\" as his second envoi, and was well received by the Académie, though swiftly forgotten thereafter.\n\nIn the summer of 1859, Bizet and several companions travelled in the mountains and forests around Anagni and Frosinone. They also visited a convict settlement at Anzio; Bizet sent an enthusiastic letter to Marmontel, recounting his experiences. In August, he made an extended journey south to Naples and Pompeii, where he was unimpressed with the former but delighted with the latter: \"Here you live with the ancients; you see their temples, their theatres, their houses in which you find their furniture, their kitchen utensils...\" Bizet began sketching a symphony based on his Italian experiences, but made little immediate headway; the project, which became his \"Roma\" symphony, was not finished until 1868. On his return to Rome, Bizet successfully requested permission to extend his stay in Italy into a third year, rather than going to Germany, so that he could complete \"an important work\" (which has not been identified). In September 1860, while visiting Venice with his friend and fellow-laureate Ernest Guiraud, Bizet received news that his mother was gravely ill in Paris, and made his way home.\n\nBack in Paris with two years of his grant remaining, Bizet was temporarily secure financially and could ignore for the moment the difficulties that other young composers faced in the city. The two state-subsidised opera houses, the Opéra and the Opéra-Comique, each presented traditional repertoires that tended to stifle and frustrate new homegrown talent; only eight of the 54 Prix de Rome laureates between 1830 and 1860 had had works staged at the Opéra. Although French composers were better represented at the Opéra-Comique, the style and character of productions had remained largely unchanged since the 1830s. A number of smaller theatres catered for operetta, a field in which Offenbach was then paramount, while the Théâtre Italien specialised in second-rate Italian opera. The best prospect for aspirant opera composers was the Théâtre Lyrique company which, despite repeated financial crises, operated intermittently in various premises under its resourceful manager Léon Carvalho. This company had staged the first performances of Gounod's \"Faust\" and his \"Roméo et Juliette\", and of a shortened version of Berlioz's \"Les Troyens\".\n\nOn 13 March 1861, Bizet attended the Paris premiere of Wagner's opera \"Tannhäuser\", a performance greeted by audience riots that were stage-managed by the influential Jockey-Club de Paris. Despite this distraction, Bizet revised his opinions of Wagner's music, which he had previously dismissed as merely eccentric. He now declared Wagner \"above and beyond all living composers\". Thereafter, accusations of \"Wagnerism\" were often laid against Bizet, throughout his compositional career.\n\nAs a pianist, Bizet had showed considerable skill from his earliest years. A contemporary asserted that he could have assured a future on the concert platform, but chose to conceal his talent \"as though it were a vice\". In May 1861 Bizet gave a rare demonstration of his virtuoso skills when, at a dinner party at which Liszt was present, he astonished everyone by playing on sight, flawlessly, one of the maestro's most difficult pieces. Liszt commented: \"I thought there were only two men able to surmount the difficulties ... there are three, and ... the youngest is perhaps the boldest and most brilliant.\"\nBizet's third envoi was delayed for nearly a year by the prolonged illness and death, in September 1861, of his mother. He eventually submitted a trio of orchestral works: an overture entitled \"La Chasse d'Ossian\", a scherzo and a funeral march. The overture has been lost; the scherzo was later absorbed into the \"Roma\" symphony, and the funeral march music was adapted and used in a later opera. Bizet's fourth and final envoi, which occupied him for much of 1862, was a one-act opera, \"La guzla de l'émir\". As a state-subsidised theatre, the Opéra-Comique was obliged from time to time to stage the works of Prix de Rome laureates, and \"La guzla\" duly went into rehearsal in 1863. However, in April Bizet received an offer, which originated from Count Walewski, to compose the music for a three-act opera. This was \"Les pêcheurs de perles\", based on a libretto by Michel Carré and Eugène Cormon. Because a condition of this offer was that the opera should be the composer's first publicly staged work, Bizet hurriedly withdrew \"La guzla\" from production and incorporated parts of its music into the new opera. The first performance of \"Les pêcheurs de perles\", by the Théâtre Lyrique company, was on 30 September 1863. Critical opinion was generally hostile, though Berlioz praised the work, writing that it \"does M. Bizet the greatest honour\". Public reaction was lukewarm, and the opera's run ended after 18 performances. It was not performed again until 1886.\n\nIn 1862, Bizet had fathered a child with the family's housekeeper, Marie Reiter. The boy was brought up to believe that he was Adolphe Bizet's child; only on her deathbed in 1913 did Reiter reveal her son's true paternity.\n\nWhen his Prix de Rome grant expired, Bizet found he could not make a living from writing music. He accepted piano pupils and some composition students, two of whom, Edmond Galabert and Paul Lacombe, became his close friends. He also worked as an accompanist at rehearsals and auditions for various staged works, including Berlioz's oratorio \"L'enfance du Christ\" and Gounod's opera \"Mireille\". However, his main work in this period was as an arranger of others' works. He made piano transcriptions for hundreds of operas and other pieces and prepared vocal scores and orchestral arrangements for all kinds of music. He was also, briefly, a music critic for \"La Revue Nationale et Étrangère\", under the assumed name of \"Gaston de Betzi\". Bizet's single contribution in this capacity appeared on 3 August 1867, after which he quarrelled with the magazine's new editor and resigned.\n\nSince 1862, Bizet had been working intermittently on \"Ivan IV\", an opera based on the life of Ivan the Terrible. Carvalho failed to deliver on his promise to produce it, so in December 1865, Bizet offered it to the Opéra, which rejected it; the work remained unperformed until 1946. In July 1866, Bizet signed another contract with Carvalho, for \"La jolie fille de Perth\", the libretto for which, by J.H. Vernoy de Saint-Georges after Sir Walter Scott, is described by Bizet's biographer Winton Dean as \"the worst Bizet was ever called upon to set\". Problems over the casting and other issues delayed its premiere for a year before it was finally performed by the Théâtre Lyrique on 26 December 1867. Its press reception was more favourable than that for any of Bizet's other operas; \"Le Ménestral's\" critic hailed the second act as \"a masterpiece from beginning to end\". Despite the opera's success, Carvalho's financial difficulties meant a run of only 18 performances.\n\nWhile \"La jolie fille\" was in rehearsal, Bizet worked with three other composers, each of whom contributed a single act to a four-act operetta \"Marlborough s'en va-t-en guerre\". When the work was performed at the Théâtre de l'Athénée on 13 December 1867, it was a great success, and the \"Revue et Gazette Musicale's\" critic lavished particular praise on Bizet's act: \"Nothing could be more stylish, smarter and, at the same time, more distinguished\". Bizet also found time to finish his long-gestating \"Roma\" symphony and wrote numerous keyboard works and songs. Nevertheless, this period of Bizet's life was marked by significant disappointments. At least two projected operas were abandoned with little or no work done. Several competition entries, including a cantata and a hymn composed for the Paris Exhibition of 1867, were unsuccessful. \"La Coupe du Roi de Thulé\", his entry for an opera competition, was not placed in the first five; from the fragments of this score that survive, analysts have discerned pre-echoes of \"Carmen\". On 28 February 1869, the \"Roma\" symphony was performed at the Cirque Napoléon, under Jules Pasdeloup. Afterwards, Bizet informed Galabert that on the basis of proportionate applause, hisses, and catcalls, the work was a success.\n\nNot long after Fromental Halévy's death in 1862, Bizet had been approached on behalf of Mme. Halévy about completing his old tutor's unfinished opera \"Noé\". Although no action was taken at that time, Bizet remained on friendly terms with the Halévy family. Fromental had left two daughters; the elder, Esther, died in 1864, an event which so traumatised Mme. Halévy that she could not tolerate the company of her younger daughter Geneviève, who from the age of 15 lived with other family members. It is unclear when Geneviève and Bizet became emotionally attached, but in October 1867, he informed Galabert: \"I have met an adorable girl whom I love! In two years she will be my wife!\" The pair became engaged, although the Halévy family initially disallowed the match. According to Bizet they considered him an unsuitable catch: \"penniless, left-wing, anti-religious and Bohemian\", which Dean observes are odd grounds of objection from \"a family bristling with artists and eccentrics\". By summer 1869, their objections had been overcome, and the wedding took place on 3 June 1869. Ludovic Halévy wrote in his journal: \"Bizet has spirit and talent. He \"should\" succeed\".\n\nAs a belated homage to his late father-in-law, Bizet took up the \"Noé\" manuscript and completed it. Parts of his moribund \"Vasco da Gama\" and \"Ivan IV\" were incorporated into the score, but a projected production at the Théâtre Lyrique failed to materialise when Carvalho's company finally went bankrupt, and \"Noé\" remained unperformed until 1885. Bizet's marriage was initially happy, but was affected by Geneviève's nervous instability (inherited from both her parents), her difficult relations with her mother and by Mme. Halévy's interference in the couple's affairs. Despite this, Bizet kept on good terms with his mother-in-law and maintained an extensive correspondence with her. In the year following the marriage, he considered plans for at least half a dozen new operas and began to sketch the music for two of them: \"Clarissa Harlowe\" based on Samuel Richardson's novel \"Clarissa\", and \"Grisélidis\" with a libretto from Victorien Sardou. However, his progress on these projects was brought to a halt in July 1870, with the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nAfter a series of perceived provocations from Prussia, culminating in the offer of the Spanish crown to the Prussian Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern, the French Emperor Napoleon III declared war on 15 July 1870. Initially, this step was supported by an outbreak of patriotic fervour and confident expectations of victory. Bizet, along with other composers and artists, joined the National Guard and began training. He was critical of the antiquated equipment with which he was supposed to fight; his unit's guns, he said, were more dangerous to themselves than to the enemy. The national mood was soon depressed by news of successive reverses; at Sedan on 2 September, the French armies suffered an overwhelming defeat; Napoleon was captured and deposed, and the Second Empire came to a sudden end.\n\nBizet greeted with enthusiasm the proclamation in Paris of the Third Republic.\nThe new government did not sue for peace, and by 17 September, the Prussian armies had surrounded Paris. Unlike Gounod, who fled to England, Bizet rejected opportunities to leave the besieged city: \"I can't leave Paris! It's impossible! It would be quite simply an act of cowardice\", he wrote to Mme Halévy. Life in the city became frugal and harsh, although, by October, there were efforts to re-establish normality. Pasdeloup resumed his regular Sunday concerts, and on 5 November, the Opéra reopened with excerpts from works by Gluck, Rossini, and Meyerbeer.\n\nAn armistice was signed on 26 January 1871, but the departure of the Prussian troops from Paris in March presaged a period of confusion and civil disturbance. Following an uprising, the city's municipal authority was taken over by dissidents who established the Paris Commune. Bizet decided that he was no longer safe in the city, and he and Geneviève escaped to Compiègne. Later, they moved to Le Vésinet where they sat out the two months of the Commune, within hearing distance of the gunfire that resounded as government troops gradually crushed the uprising: \"The cannons are rumbling with unbelievable violence\", Bizet wrote to his mother-in-law on 12 May.\n\nAs life in Paris returned to normal, in June 1871, Bizet's appointment as chorus-master at The Opéra was seemingly confirmed by its director, Émile Perrin. Bizet was due to begin his duties in October, but on 1 November, the post was assumed by Hector Salomon. In her biography of Bizet, Mina Curtiss surmises that he either resigned or refused to take up the position as a protest against what he thought was the director's unjustified closing of Ernest Reyer's opera \"Erostrate\" after only two performances. Bizet resumed work on \"Clarissa Harlowe\" and \"Grisélidis\", but plans for the latter to be staged at the Opéra-Comique fell through, and neither work was finished; only fragments of their music survive. Bizet's other completed works in 1871 were the piano duet entitled \"Jeux d'enfants\", and a one-act opera, \"Djamileh\", which opened at the Opéra-Comique in May 1872. It was poorly staged and incompetently sung; at one point the leading singer missed 32 bars of music. It closed after 11 performances, not to be heard again until 1938. On 10 July Geneviève gave birth to the couple's only child, a son, Jacques.\n\nBizet's next major assignment came from Carvalho, who was now managing Paris' Vaudeville theatre and wanted incidental music for Alphonse Daudet's play \"L'Arlésienne\". When the play opened on 1 October, the music was dismissed by critics as too complex for popular taste. However, encouraged by Reyer and Massenet, Bizet fashioned a four-movement suite from the music, which was performed under Pasdeloup on 10 November to an enthusiastic reception. In the winter of 1872–73, Bizet supervised preparations for a revival of the still-absent Gounod's \"Roméo et Juliette\" at the Opéra-Comique. Relations between the two had been cool for some years, but Bizet responded positively to his former mentor's request for help, writing: \"You were the beginning of my life as an artist. I spring from you\".\n\nIn June 1872, Bizet informed Galabert: \"I have just been ordered to compose three acts for the Opéra-Comique. [Henri] Meilhac and [Ludovic] Halévy are doing my piece\". The subject chosen for this project was Prosper Mérimée's short novel, \"Carmen\". Bizet began the music in the summer of 1873, but the Opéra-Comique's management was concerned about the suitability of this risqué story for a theatre that generally provided wholesome entertainment, and work was suspended. Bizet then began composing \"Don Rodrigue\", an adaptation of the El Cid story by Louis Gallet and Édouard Blau. He played a piano version to a select audience that included the Opéra's principal baritone Jean-Baptiste Faure, hoping that the singer's approval might influence the directors of the Opéra to stage the work. However, on the night of 28–29 October, the Opéra burned to the ground; the directors, amid other pressing concerns, set \"Don Rodrigue\" aside. It was never completed; Bizet later adapted a theme from its final act as the basis of his 1875 overture, \"Patrie\".\n\nAdolphe de Leuven, the co-director of the Opéra-Comique most bitterly opposed to the \"Carmen\" project, resigned early in 1874, removing the main barrier to the work's production. Bizet finished the score during the summer and was pleased with the outcome: \"I have written a work that is all clarity and vivacity, full of colour and melody\". The renowned mezzo-soprano Célestine Galli-Marié (known professionally as \"Galli-Marié\") was engaged to sing the title role. According to Dean, she was as delighted by the part as Bizet was by her suitability for it. There were rumours that he and the singer pursued a brief affair; his relations with Geneviève were strained at this time, and they lived apart for several months.\n\nWhen rehearsals began in October 1874, the orchestra had difficulties with the score, finding some parts unplayable. The chorus likewise declared some of their music impossible to sing and were dismayed that they had to act as individuals, smoking and fighting onstage rather than merely standing in line. Bizet also had to counter further attempts at the Opéra-Comique to modify parts of the action which they deemed improper. Only when the leading singers threatened to withdraw from the production did the management give way. Resolving these issues delayed the first night until 3 March 1875 on which morning, by chance, Bizet's appointment as a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour was announced.\n\nAmong leading musical figures at the premiere were Jules Massenet, Camille Saint-Saëns, and Charles Gounod. Geneviève, suffering from an abscess in her right eye, was unable to be present. The opera's first performance extended to four-and-a-half hours; the final act did not begin until after midnight. Afterwards, Massenet and Saint-Saëns were congratulatory, Gounod less so. According to one account, he accused Bizet of plagiarism: \"Georges has robbed me! Take the Spanish airs and mine out of the score and there remains nothing to Bizet's credit but the sauce that masks the fish\". Much of the press comment was negative, expressing consternation that the heroine was an amoral seductress rather than a woman of virtue. Galli-Marié's performance was described by one critic as \"the very incarnation of vice\". Others complained of a lack of melody and made unfavourable comparisons with the traditional Opéra-Comique fare of Auber and Boieldieu. Léon Escudier in \"L'Art Musical\" called the music \"dull and obscure ... the ear grows weary of waiting for the cadence that never comes\". There was, however, praise from the poet Théodore de Banville, who applauded Bizet for presenting a drama with real men and women instead of the usual Opéra-Comique \"puppets\". The public's reaction was lukewarm, and Bizet soon became convinced of its failure: \"I foresee a definite and hopeless flop\".\n\nFor most of his life, Bizet had suffered from a recurrent throat complaint. A heavy smoker, he may have further undermined his health by overwork during the mid-1860s, when he toiled over publishers' transcriptions for up to 16 hours a day. In 1868, he informed Galabert that he had been very ill with abscesses in the windpipe: \"I suffered like a dog\". In 1871, and again in 1874, while completing \"Carmen\", he had been disabled by severe bouts of what he described as \"throat angina\", and suffered a further attack in late March 1875. At that time, depressed by the evident failure of \"Carmen\", Bizet was slow to recover and fell ill again in May. At the end of the month, he went to his holiday home at Bougival and, feeling a little better, went for a swim in the Seine. On the next day, 1 June, he was afflicted by high fever and pain, which was followed by an apparent heart attack. He seemed temporarily to recover, but in the early hours of 3 June, his wedding anniversary, he suffered a fatal second attack. He was 36 years old.\n\nThe suddenness of Bizet's death, and awareness of his depressed mental state, fuelled rumours of suicide. Although the exact cause of death was never settled with certainty, physicians discounted such theories and eventually determined the cause as \"a cardiac complication of acute articular rheumatism\". News of the death stunned Paris's musical world; as Galli-Marié was too upset to appear, that evening's performance of \"Carmen\" was cancelled and replaced with Boieldieu's \"La dame blanche\".\n\nAt the funeral on 5 June at the Église de la Sainte-Trinité in Montmartre, more than 4,000 people were present. Adolphe Bizet led the mourners, who included Gounod, Thomas, Ludovic Halévy, Léon Halévy, and Massenet. An orchestra under Pasdeloup played \"Patrie\", and the organist improvised a fantasy on themes from \"Carmen\". At the burial which followed at the Père Lachaise Cemetery, Gounod gave the eulogy. He said that Bizet had been struck down just as he was becoming recognised as a true artist. Towards the end of his address, Gounod broke down and was unable to deliver his final peroration. After a special performance of \"Carmen\" at the Opéra-Comique that night, the press which had almost universally condemned the piece three months earlier now declared Bizet a master.\n\nBizet's earliest compositions, chiefly songs and keyboard pieces written as exercises, give early indications of his emergent power and his gifts as a melodist. Dean sees evidence in the piano work \"Romance sans parole\", written before 1854, of \"the conjunction of melody, rhythm and accompaniment\" that is characteristic of Bizet's mature works. Bizet's first orchestral piece was an overture written in 1855 in the manner of Rossini's \"Guillaume Tell\". Critics have found it unremarkable, but the Symphony in C of the same year has been warmly praised by later commentators who have made favourable comparisons with Mozart and Schubert. In Dean's view, the symphony has \"few rivals and perhaps no superior in the work of any composer of such youth\". The critic Ernest Newman suggests that Bizet may at this time have thought that his future lay in the field of instrumental music, before an \"inner voice\" (and the realities of the French musical world) turned him towards the stage.\n\nAfter his early Symphony in C, Bizet's purely orchestral output is sparse. The \"Roma\" symphony over which he laboured for more than eight years compares poorly, in Dean's view, with its juvenile predecessor. The work, says Dean, owes something to Gounod and contains passages that recall Weber and Mendelssohn. However, Dean contends that the work suffers from poor organisation and an excess of pretentious music; he calls it a \"misfire\". Bizet's other mature orchestral work, the overture \"Patrie\", is similarly dismissed: \"an awful warning of the danger of confusing art with patriotism\". The musicologist Hugh Macdonald argues that Bizet's best orchestral music is found in the suites that he derived respectively from the piano work \"Jeux d'enfants\" and the incidental music for \"L'Arlésienne\". In these, he demonstrates a maturity of style that, had he lived longer, might have been the basis for future great orchestral works.\n\nBizet's piano works have not entered the concert pianist's repertoire, and are generally too difficult for amateurs to attempt. An exception is the set of 12 pieces evoking the world of children's games, \"Jeux d'enfants\", written for four hands. Here, Bizet avoided the virtuoso passages which tend to dominate his solo works. The earlier solo pieces bear the influence of Chopin; later works, such as the \"Variations Chromatiques\" and the \"Chasse Fantastique\", owe more to Liszt. Most of Bizet's songs were written in the period 1866–68. Dean defines the main weaknesses in these songs as an unimaginative repetition of the same music for each verse, and a tendency to write for the orchestra rather than the voice. Much of Bizet's larger-scale vocal music is lost; the early \"Te Deum\", which survives in full, is rejected by Dean as \"a wretched work [that] merely illustrates Bizet's unfitness to write religious music.\"\n\nBizet's early one-act opera \"Le docteur Miracle\" provides the first clear signs of his promise in this genre, its sparkling music including, according to Dean, \"many happy touches of parody, scoring and comic characterisation\". Newman perceives evidence of Bizet's later achievements in many of his earliest works: \"[A]gain and again we light upon some touch or other in them that only a musician with a dramatic root of the matter in him could have achieved.\" Until \"Carmen\", however, Bizet was not essentially an innovator in the musical theatre. He wrote most of his operas in the traditions of Italian and French opera established by such as Donizetti, Rossini, Berlioz, Gounod, and Thomas. Macdonald suggests that, technically, he surpassed all of these, with a feeling for the human voice that compares with that of Mozart.\n\nIn \"Don Procopio\", Bizet followed the stock devices of Italian opera as typified by Donizetti in \"Don Pasquale\", a work which it closely resembles. However, the familiar idiom is interspersed with original touches in which Bizet's fingerprints emerge unmistakably. In his first significant opera, \"Les pêcheurs de perles\", Bizet was hampered by a dull libretto and a laborious plot; nevertheless, the music in Dean's view rises at times \"far above the level of contemporary French opera\". Its many original flourishes include the introduction to the cavatina\" Comme autrefois dans la nuit sombre\" played by two French horns over a cello background, an effect which in the words of analyst Hervé Lacombe, \"resonates in the memory like a fanfare lost in a distant forest\". While the music of \"Les pêcheurs\" is atmospheric and deeply evocative of the opera's Eastern setting, in \"La jolie fille de Perth\", Bizet made no attempt to introduce Scottish colour or mood, though the scoring includes highly imaginative touches such as a separate band of woodwind and strings during the opera's Act III seduction scene.\n\nFrom Bizet's unfinished works, Macdonald highlights \"La coupe du roi de Thulé\" as giving clear signs of the power that would reach a pinnacle in \"Carmen\" and suggests that had \"Clarissa Harlowe\" and \"Grisélidis\" been completed, Bizet's legacy would have been \"infinitely richer\". As Bizet moved away from the accepted musical conventions of French opera, he encountered critical hostility. In the case of \"Djamileh\", the accusation of \"Wagnerism\" was raised again, as audiences struggled to understand the score's originality; many found the music pretentious and monotonous, lacking in both rhythm and melody. By contrast, modern critical opinion as expressed by Macdonald is that \"Djamileh\" is \"a truly enchanting piece, full of inventive touches, especially of chromatic colour.\"\n\nRalph P. Locke, in his study of \"Carmen's\" origins, draws attention to Bizet's successful evocation of Andalusian Spain. Grout, in his \"History of Western Music\", praises the music's extraordinary rhythmic and melodic vitality, and Bizet's ability to obtain the maximum dramatic effect in the most economical fashion. Among the opera's early champions were Tchaikovsky, Brahms, and particularly Wagner, who commented: \"Here, thank God, at last for a change is somebody with ideas in his head.\" Another champion of the work was Friedrich Nietzsche, who claimed to know it by heart; \"It is music that makes no pretensions to depth, but it is delightful in its simplicity, so unaffected and sincere\". By broad consent, \"Carmen\" represents the fulfilment of Bizet's development as a master of music drama and the culmination of the genre of opéra comique.\n\nAfter Bizet's death, many of his manuscripts were lost; works were revised by other hands and published in these unauthorised versions so that it is often difficult to establish what is authentic Bizet. Even \"Carmen\" was altered into grand opera format by the replacement of its dialogue with recitatives written by Guiraud, and by other amendments to the score. The music world did not immediately acknowledge Bizet as a master and, apart from \"Carmen\" and the \"L'Arlésienne\" suite, few of his works were performed in the years immediately following his death. However, the 20th century saw an increase of interest. \"Don Procopio\" was revived in Monte Carlo in 1906; an Italian version of \"Les pêcheurs de perles\" was performed at the Metropolitan Opera in New York on 13 November 1916, with Caruso in the leading tenor role, and it has since become a staple at many opera houses. After its first performance in Switzerland in 1935, the Symphony in C entered the concert repertory and has been recorded by, among many others, Sir Thomas Beecham. Excerpts from \"La coupe du roi de Thulé\", edited by Winton Dean, were broadcast by the BBC on 12 July 1955, and \"Le docteur Miracle\" was revived in London on 8 December 1957 by the Park Lane Group. \"Vasco da Gama\" and \"Ivan IV\" have been recorded, as have numerous songs and the complete piano music. \"Carmen\", after its lukewarm initial Paris run of 45 performances, became a worldwide popular success after performances in Vienna (1875) and London (1878). It has been hailed as the first opera of the verismo school, in which sordid and brutal subjects are emphasised, with art reflecting life—\"not idealised life but life as actually lived\".\n\nThe music critic Harold Schonberg surmises that had Bizet lived, he might have revolutionised French opera; as it is, verismo was taken up mainly by Italians, notably Puccini who, according to Dean, developed the idea \"till it became threadbare\". Bizet founded no specific school, though Dean names Chabrier and Ravel as composers influenced by him. Dean also suggests that a fascination with Bizet's tragic heroes—Frédéri in \"L'Arlésienne\", José in \"Carmen\"—is reflected in Tchaikovsky's late symphonies, particularly the B minor \"Pathetique\". Macdonald writes that Bizet's legacy is limited by the shortness of his life and by the false starts and lack of focus that persisted until his final five years. \"The spectacle of great works unwritten either because Bizet had other distractions, or because no one asked him to write them, or because of his premature death, is infinitely dispiriting, yet the brilliance and the individuality of his best music is unmistakable. It has greatly enriched a period of French music already rich in composers of talent and distinction.\"\n\nIn Bizet's family circle, his father Adolphe died in 1886. Bizet's son Jacques committed suicide in 1922 after an unhappy love affair. Jean Reiter, Bizet's elder son, had a successful career as press director of \"Le Temps\", became an Officer of the Legion of Honour, and died in 1939 at the age of 77. In 1886, Geneviève married Émile Straus, a rich lawyer; she became a famous Parisian society hostess and a close friend of, among others, Marcel Proust. She showed little interest in her first husband's musical legacy, made no effort to catalogue Bizet's manuscripts and gave many away as souvenirs. She died in 1926; in her will, she established a fund for a Georges Bizet prize, to be awarded annually to a composer under 40 who had \"produced a remarkable work within the previous five years\". Winners of the prize include Tony Aubin, Jean-Michel Damase, Henri Dutilleux, and Jean Martinon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15319892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15319892", "title": "Gracilidris", "text": "Gracilidris\n\nGracilidris is a genus of dolichoderine ants with nocturnal behaviour; thought to have gone extinct 15-20 million years ago, they have been found in Paraguay, Brazil, and Argentina and were described in 2006.\n\nThe single existing fossil in Dominican amber makes the genus a Lazarus taxon. The only known extant species, \"Gracilidris pombero\", nests in small colonies in the soil. These ants have been described only very recently and little is known about them.\n\n"}
{"id": "14946996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14946996", "title": "HMCS Integrity (1804)", "text": "HMCS Integrity (1804)\n\nHMCS \"Integrity\" was a cutter built by the Colonial Government of New South Wales in 1804. She was the first vessel ever launched from a New South Wales dockyard and carried goods between the colony's coastal settlements of Norfolk Island, Newcastle, New South Wales, Van Diemen's Land and Port Jackson. In 1804 she took part in a series of voyages to Van Diemen's Land with the aim of founding a colony at Port Dalrymple, the site of the modern settlement of George Town, Tasmania.\n\nIn 1805 \"Integrity\" encountered and recaptured a Spanish brig which had been unlawfully seized by privateers and concealed in the Kent Group of islands in Bass Strait. Having returned the Spanish vessel to colonial control, \"Integrity\" was designated the task of sailing to Chile to negotiate its return to Spain. She set sail for Valparaíso, Chile, in June 1805, but was not seen again and is likely to have foundered during the voyage.\n\n\"Integrity\" was laid down in September 1802 at the newly opened King's Dockyard in the colony of New South Wales. Governor Philip Gidley King ordered that construction proceed as swiftly as possible, in order to test the Dockyard's capacity. A team of two shipwrights, two apprentice shipwrights and two sawyers were assigned the task and delivered the finished cutter in thirteen months. During construction shipwright Thomas Moore tested that the hull was watertight by filling it with water from the inside, and repairing any visible leaks. Her hold also incorporated a partition that her crew could move to or away from the forecastle bulkhead to vary her cargo capacity.\n\nGovernor King's direction had been for a vessel measuring around 46 tons burthen, but the final vessel was significantly larger at 59 tons. King was impressed with the work despite this variation from the original plans; in a letter to Lord Hobart, Secretary of State for War and the Colonies, he praised the speed and quality of \"Integrity\"s construction and described her as \"extremely well put together and strong\".\n\nThe newly built vessel was launched on 13 January 1804 as \"His Majesty's Armed Colonial Cutter \"Integrity\"\" under the command of Royal Navy Lieutenant John Houstoun and with a crew of eight men. She was the first seagoing vessel to be launched in the colony of New South Wales, all previous craft having been small enough to be floated off the shore. Throughout her active service she remained under the direct control of the colonial government of New South Wales, and was never formally commissioned into the Royal Navy.\n\n\"Integrity\"s first voyage was in February 1804, heading south along the eastern coastline of Australia to transport settlers and supplies across Bass Strait to the colonial outpost in Van Diemen's Land. The administrator of that outpost, Lieutenant John Bowen, had recently resigned his position and returned to Port Jackson. Governor King now directed that Bowen travel back to Van Diemen's Land aboard \"Integrity\" in order to formalise the transfer of colonial authority to his successor. However Bowen refused to go aboard, and the cutter ultimately sailed without him in order to deliver its supplies. The voyage was a success other than a broken rudder fastener which was repaired when \"Integrity\" reached Van Diemen's Land in early March. The cutter then completed the round trip back to Port Jackson, arriving safely at her home port on 24 April.\n\nOn 1 June Governor King issued directions for \"Integrity\"s second voyage. With Lieutenant Houstoun again in command, the cutter was to transport Lieutenant-Colonel William Paterson to the north of Van Diemen's Land in order to found a new settlement at Port Dalrymple. To support the settlement, the cutter was also assigned to carry nineteen soldiers of the New South Wales Corps, a ship's surgeon and ten convicts. A further fifteen soldiers and eleven convicts would accompany the expedition aboard a privately owned vessel, \"Contest.\" Once Paterson had disembarked at Port Dalrymple, \"Integrity\" was to follow the coastline of Port Phillip Bay so that Houstoun could survey the shore and determine its suitability for future colonisation. The cutter would then proceed to Cape Barren Island, a remote location in Bass Strait, to investigate rumours that a group of American sailors were establishing an unlawful trade in seal skins.\n\n\"Integrity\" set sail on 8 June, heading south along the New South Wales coast. A week later she encountered heavy storms and winds while passing Cape Howe and was unable to proceed. Houstoun ordered a return to Port Jackson, which was regained on 19 June. While in port, one of \"Integrity\"s crew, a sailor named William Dwyre, was removed from the ship and sent to prison for having refusing to carry out his duties while aboard. There was no sign of \"Contest\" and she was presumed lost at sea.\n\nThe voyage was re-attempted on 3 July, but \"Integrity\" again ran into heavy weather off Cape Howe and was forced to turn towards the shore to seek shelter. The cutter entered what would later be known as Twofold Bay on the New South Wales South Coast, where to her crew's surprise they discovered \"Contest\", undamaged but unable to return to sea in the storm.\n\nThe passengers and crew of both vessels consulted on whether to continue southwards or turn back and await better weather. According to one source, missionary W.P. Crook aboard \"Integrity\", there was unanimity for continuing the voyage except for Captain Houstoun, who wished to turn back. As Houstoun was the nominal commander of the voyage his view prevailed and \"Integrity\" and \"Contest\" returned to Port Jackson together, arriving on 13 July.\n\n\"Integrity\"s repeated failure to reach Port Dalrymple convinced Governor King that larger vessels would be required to make the voyage. The East India Company was approached to provide either \"Coromandel\" or \"Experiment\", both then in New South Wales waters, but the request was declined. In the interim \"Integrity\" was sent north with provisions for the colonial settlement at Norfolk Island, departing on 20 July 1804 and returning in early August. In September she sailed a round trip to the New South Wales colony of Newcastle to ship a cargo of cedar wood back to Port Jackson, followed by another brief voyage to Norfolk Island.\n\nOn 1 October Governor King issued orders for a flotilla to attempt the voyage. The expedition would be led by the 12-gun Royal Navy storeship and the 6-gun survey vessel . They would be accompanied by \"Integrity\", and by the elderly colonial schooner \"Francis\" which had been in service since 1792 and was described by King as \"much damaged\" but still seaworthy. Lieutenant-Colonel Paterson and the principal colonists would travel aboard \"Buffalo\" but transfer to \"Integrity\" if the Navy vessel was too large to enter the bay where the settlement was proposed to stand.\n\nThe flotilla departed Port Jackson on 15 October, proceeding southward down the New South Wales coastline towards Bass Strait. Cape Howe was passed without incident, though the schooner \"Francis\" struggled with the ocean swell and continually fell behind the larger vessels. The weather slowly worsened until on sunset of 18 October the flotilla encountered a heavy gale. Captain William Kent of \"Buffalo\" signaled for the flotilla to take in their sails and ride out the storm; on the following morning the crew of \"Integrity\" discovered that they had lost sight of all three other vessels and were running dangerously close to a lee shore. Houstoun elected to continue southward close to land, preferring the risk of running aground to that of braving the gale in deeper water. There was a glimpse of \"Buffalo\" far to the east on the morning of 21 October, \"laboring much and lurching very deep\" among the waves. Other than this sighting \"Integrity\" continued her voyage alone through the storm, crossing Bass Strait into clearer weather on around 23 October. The cutter was brought into an uninhabited bay on the northeast coast of Van Diemen's Land where she underwent basic repairs.\n\nAfter ten days she was returned to sea and reached Port Dalrymple on the morning of 5 November. \"Buffalo\" had already arrived, but there was no sign of \"Lady Nelson\" or \"Francis.\" Houstoun's achievement in navigating the storm was recognised through a transfer to \"Buffalo\", a larger and more prestigious vessel than \"Integrity\". His former colonial command was allocated to midshipman Charles Robbins, who was promoted Acting Lieutenant by virtue of his new role. The remaining vessels in the flotilla, \"Lady Nelson\" and \"Francis\", arrived in Port Dalrymple on 21 November. \"Integrity\" departed a week later, Robbins having been ordered to explore the far western coastline of Van Diemen's Land.\n\nIn April 1805 \"Integrity\" encountered the brig \"Saint Francisco & Saint Paulo\" off the Kent Group of islands in Bass Strait. The brig and another ship, \"Extremeña\", had been seized from the Chilean ports of Caldera and Coquimbo in September 1804 by Captain William Campbell of the privateer \"Harrington\". The Spanish ships had then been sailed to Port Jackson while Governor King considered whether to return them to Chile. Unwilling to await King's decision, Captain Campbell had ordered his crew to put to sea in \"Saint Francisco & Saint Paulo\" and conceal the vessel in an uninhabited location. Departing south from Port Jackson in early March, the brig ran into rough weather in Bass Strait and began to sink. When approached by \"Integrity\", the Spanish ship was shipping of water over the lowest deck inside the hull. \"Integrity\"s crew assisted in keeping the brig afloat and she was safely conveyed to Port Dalrymple, arriving on 17 May 1805.\n\nIn June 1805 Governor King received legal advice from the British Government indicating that colonial retention of the Spanish vessels \"Extremeña\" and \"St Francisco & St Paulo\" could give rise to a charge of piracy. In these circumstances, King directed that \"Integrity\" should sail to Chile to offer the safe return of the Spanish ships. The cutter departed for Valparaíso, Chile on 20 June 1805. For the voyage she was again under the command of Acting Lieutenant Robbins, with a crew of ten men and bearing a flag of truce \"in case war should have taken place between England and Spain\" before she reached her destination. She was not seen again. Historian Frank Bladen has conjectured that the cutter either foundered \"en route\", or reached South America but was captured by an indigenous tribe.\n\nA year after \"Integrity\"s departure, on 20 July 1806, King wrote to Viscount Castlereagh expressing concern at the cutter's continued absence and hoping that she had simply been detained by Spanish authorities. She was last mentioned in a report on colonial shipping compiled by Governor King in August 1806 – fourteen months after her disappearance – with details of pay still owing to her crew and accompanied by the annotation \"Gone to Valparaiso ... Not returned.\"\n\n\n1804 in Australia\n"}
{"id": "27328264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27328264", "title": "Hendrik Abbé", "text": "Hendrik Abbé\n\nHendrik Abbé was a Flemish painter, engraver and architect.\n\nAbbé was baptized in 1639 in the cathedral at Antwerp. Some prints by him were published in Antwerp in 1670. An edition of Ovid's \"Metamorpheses\", published by Francois Foppens in Brussels in 1677, was partly illustrated with plates by other engravers after drawings by Abbé.\n"}
{"id": "33558279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33558279", "title": "Hikmet Bilâ", "text": "Hikmet Bilâ\n\nHikmet Bilâ (; 1954 – 21 October 2011) was a Turkish journalist and columnist. He was the author of three books about Turkish political history.\n\nHe was born in Zonguldak in 1954. After graduating from high school, he was admitted to Ankara University, Faculty of Political Sciences and earned his B.A. degree from international relations department.\n\nHikmet Bilâ started his journalism career in daily newspaper \"Yeni Ulus\" in 1973. He wrote columns in several Turkish newspapers including \"Milliyet\", \"Cumhuriyet\", and \"Vatan\". He worked as editor-in-chief at leading news channel of Turkey, NTV.\n\nHe died on 21 October 2011 in his Ankara home after suffering for 1,5 years from lung cancer. His funeral was held at Teşvikiye Mosque and buried in Ulus Cemetery on 22 October 2011.\n\nHis brother Fikret Bilâ wrote a sad and mournful article about Hikmet Bilâ after the funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "95809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95809", "title": "Huna (New Age)", "text": "Huna (New Age)\n\nHuna is a Hawaiian word adopted by Max Freedom Long (1890–1971) in 1936 to describe his theory of metaphysics. Long cited what he believed to be the spiritual practices of ancient Hawaiian kahunas (priests) as inspiration; however, the system is his invention, with roots in New Thought and Theosophy, rather than in traditional Hawaiian beliefs. Huna is part of the New Age movement.\n\nMax Freedom Long, who was not Hawaiian, went to Hawaii in 1917 to work as an elementary school teacher. He became interested in the religious beliefs and practices of the ancient kahunas and modern practitioners of traditional, indigenous Hawaiian religion, but none of the ceremonial people talked to him so he was unable to penetrate to the inner workings of this religion. He left Hawaii in 1931, convinced that he would never learn these secrets. In 1934, he woke with a revelation that the secrets were encoded into the Hawaiian language itself. He called the religious system he developed from this revelation 'Huna' (the Hawaiian word for secret), and wrote his first book in 1936 to chronicle his beliefs. There are no accepted Hawaiian sources that refer to the word 'Huna' as a tradition of esoteric learning.\n\nIn 1945 Long founded Huna Research. In 1953, he published \"The Secret Science at Work\" as a Huna textbook, and in 1965 \"The Huna Codes in Religions\", examining parallels between his invented system and religions such as Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity.\n\nThe New Age practice of Huna emphasizes practical living and harmony with three levels of consciousness or selves. Long claimed that a low, middle, and higher self were recognized by the ancient kahunas. Long called these selves the \"unihipili\" (subconscious, inner, emotional, intuitive), \"uhane\" (waking consciousness, rational) and \"aumakua\" (super-conscious, connection with the divine), however these are not the Hawaiian meanings of these words. Long also redefined the Hawaiian concept of \"mana\", (privileged as a divine power in traditional Hawaiian belief), and presented it instead as a vitalizing life force, which can, with knowledge of the three selves, be used in a manner of \"personal empowerment\" to heal body and mind and achieve life goals. \n\nLong believed he had discovered an ancient Truth, not just about Hawaiian spirituality but linking back to India and ancient Egypt. He believed Hawaiians were a lost tribe of Berbers. He wrote that spiritual adepts migrated to Hawai‘i from Egypt, passing on to the priests of India some of their basic beliefs.\n\nLong linked Huna to Theosophy and New Thought movements of the time. He wrote that the Christian Scientists understood positive thinking better than any group he knew, and encouraged his readers to subscribe to Unity Church’s magazine, \"Daily Word\". Later Huna teachers have placed it firmly in the New Age, with Serge King claiming that Huna came originally from aliens from the Pleiades who were remnants of the mythical advanced civilizations of Mu or Lemuria, and Pila Chiles associating the islands with the New Age versions/interpretations of chakras, vortexes and ley lines.\n\nAccording to critics, Serge King misappropriated and attempted to redefine three Hawaiian language words for his idea of \"the three selves\": \"Ku,\" \"Lono,\" and \"Kane.\" However, the meanings he gives these words are not the meanings of the words in Hawaiian. King wrote that the seven principles of Huna are:\n\n\nNative speakers, scholars and dictionaries concur that the meanings King gives for these words do not reflect their usage in the Hawaiian language, nor any traditional Hawaiian beliefs. King also calls what he does \"shamanism\" and cites \"West African shamanism\" as an influence.\n\nMax Freedom Long wrote that he obtained many of his case studies and his ideas about what to look for in kahuna magic from the Director of the Bishop Museum in Honolulu, William Brigham. According to an article in the peer-reviewed \"Hawaiian Journal of History,\" there is no credible evidence that the two men met. Even if they did, Brigham was not an expert on kahunas and did not document in his own writings any of the incidents Long ascribed to him, including walking on hot lava. In his letters and manuscripts, Brigham stated that Hawaiians were \"an inferior race,\" and implied they were lazy. He referred to Queen Lili'uokalani as a \"she devil,\" \"squaw,\" and \"nigger.\"\n\nNative Hawaiian scholar Charles Kenn, a Living Treasure of Hawai'i, recognized in the Hawaiian community as a \"kahuna\" and expert in Hawaiian history and traditions, was friendly with Max Freedom Long but said, “While this Huna study is an interesting study, … it is not, and never was Hawaiian.”\n\nPali Jae Lee, a research librarian at the Bishop Museum, and author of the classic book, \"Tales From the Night Rainbow\", conducted extensive research on Max Freedom Long and Huna. She concluded, based on her interviews with Hawaiian elders, \"Huna is not Hawaiian.\" Lee cites Theodore Kelsey, a Living Treasure of Hawai'i renowned for his work as a Hawaiian translator who wrote a letter to Long in 1936 (now in the Hawai'i State Archives) criticizing his use of the terms \"unihipili\" and \"aumakua.\"\n\nAuthor Nancy Kahalewai, a teacher of lomilomi massage, wrote that \"traditional lomilomi practitioners do not teach this philosophy. In fact, most insist that it is not from the native Hawaiian culture at all.\"\n\nWells College Professor Lisa Kahaleole Hall, Ph.D., a Native Hawaiian, wrote in a peer-reviewed journal published by the University of Hawai'i that Huna \"bears absolutely no resemblance to any Hawaiian worldview or spiritual practice\" and calls it part of the \"New Age spiritual industry.\"\n\nMikael Rothstein, an associate professor of religious history at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, is the author of several books on religious history and new religious movements. He wrote about Huna in a peer-reviewed anthology:\nRather than integrating Hawaiian religion, however, New Agers seem to carry out a radical reinterpretation of this tradition, or simply invent traditions that were never Hawaiian. … New Age representations redefine Hawaiian concepts in order to align them to basic New Age trends.\nRothstein also gathered opinions and analysis of Huna by native Hawaiians:\nAccording to leading figures on the native-political scene in Hawaii, this kind of New Age representation amounts to straightforward exploitation. People often feel that non-Hawaiians are violating native intellectual property rights and that the out-of-context use of Hawaii’s religious legacy cripples the values that are imbedded in concepts such as kahuna, hula, Lomi Lomi, etc. The very idea that anyone could join a workshop and develop kahuna skills within a few weeks, for instance, is considered ridiculous as the traditional kahuna’s knowledge depends on a way of life rather than learning. …By importing Hawaiian ethnicity and revivifying what is perceived to be Hawaii’s religious legacy, New Agers from Europe and the United States…do not need the Hawaiians themselves. They need a myth about them, and so they create it… \n\nChai writes that Huna books are \"examples of cultural appropriation.\"\n\nAccording to the standard Pukui and Elbert Hawaiian dictionary, 'unihipili are the spirits of deceased persons, 'uhane is a soul, spirit or ghost, and 'aumakua are family or personal gods, deified ancestors who might assume the shape of animals. Kū, Lono and Kāne are Hawaiian gods.\n\nIn the Hawaiian language, the term \"kahuna\" is used for any expert. Kahuna include experts in diagnosing illness, herbal medicine, canoe building, temple building, wood carving, star-gazing, agriculture, and others.\n\nHuna Research Inc was founded by Long in 1945. On his death in 1971, he was succeeded as its head by Dr. E Otha Wingo (in accordance with a request by Long), and moved its headquarters to Missouri, where Wingo was a professor. It has fellowships in Canada, Australia, England, Germany and Switzerland, in addition to the United States.\n\nHuna International was formed as a religious order in 1973 by King. It has three branches: Aloha International, Voices of the Earth and Finding Each Other International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55027201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55027201", "title": "John Adams (died 1817)", "text": "John Adams (died 1817)\n\nJohn Adams (c. 1746 – 1817) was a British politician who sat in the House of Commons between 1774 and 1780.\n\nAdams was the son of John Adams of Whitland, Carmarthenshire who was High Sheriff of Pembrokeshire in 1758. His mother was Elizabeth Lloyd, daughter of Walter Lloyd, M.P of Peterwell and sister of Sir Herbert Lloyd, 1st Baronet. He matriculated at Queen’s College, Oxford on 23 January 1766, aged 19 and was created MA at Oxford in 1773. It also appears that entered Lincoln’s Inn in 1765 and was called to the bar in 1772. In 1769 he inherited the Peterwell and Falcondale estates from his uncle Sir Herbert Lloyd, Bt who is said to have shot himself on account of his large debts. The estate was therefore already heavily mortgaged, and Adams amassed more debts and attempted to sell the estate. His father died before 1772.\nIn 1776, a London attorney, who held the original mortgage, bought the Peterwell estate.\n\nAdams was appointed High Sheriff of Carmarthenshire in 1774. In 1774 he was returned as Member of Parliament for both Carmarthen and Wendover and decided to take his seat at Carmarthen. He had gained Carmarthen through the interest of Griffith Philipps but Philipps dropped him as candidate for Carmarthen in 1780. He considered standing at Cardigan, where his remaining estate gave him an interest, but decided not to enter the poll.\n\nLong before his death Lloyd had spent his inheritance. He died on 2 June 1817.\n"}
{"id": "25952514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25952514", "title": "List of cemeteries in Russia", "text": "List of cemeteries in Russia\n\nThe following is a list of cemeteries in Russia.\n\n\n\n\nNear Moscow\n\nNear Smolensk\n\nIn Saint Petersburg\n\nIn Tver Oblast\n\nIn Republic of Karelia\n"}
{"id": "13545317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13545317", "title": "Longevity escape velocity", "text": "Longevity escape velocity\n\nLongevity escape velocity (sometimes referred to as Actuarial escape velocity) is a term used in the life extension movement. It is a hypothetical situation in which life expectancy is being extended longer than the time that is passing. For example, in a given year in which longevity escape velocity would be maintained, technological advances would increase life expectancy more than the year that just went by.\n\nLife expectancy increases slightly every year as treatment strategies and technologies improve. At present, more than one year of research is required for each additional year of expected life. Longevity escape velocity occurs when this ratio reverses, so that life expectancy increases faster than one year per one year of research, as long as that rate of advance is sustainable.\n\nThe concept was first publicly proposed by David Gobel, co-founder of the Methuselah Foundation (MF). The idea has been championed by biogerontologist Aubrey de Grey (the other co-founder of the MF), \nand futurist Ray Kurzweil, who named one of his books, \"\", after the concept. These two claim that by putting further pressure on science and medicine to focus research on increasing limits of aging, rather than continuing along at its current pace, more lives will be saved in the future, even if the benefit is not immediately apparent.\n\n"}
{"id": "26550138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26550138", "title": "Michael Farenas", "text": "Michael Farenas\n\nMichael Farenas (born June 10, 1984 in Sorsogon, Philippines), is a Filipino professional boxer.\n\nBorn in Sorsogon, Farenas currently resides in Redondo Beach, California, California. He is a protégé of former world two division champion Gerry Penalosa.\n\nA hard hitting southpaw, Farenas is known for his aggressive style and his powerful punches.\n\nFarenas made his professional debut on September 19, 2004 against Octavio Olinar at the Sports and Cultural Complex in Mandaue City, Cebu, Philippines. The bout ended in a technical draw after 2 rounds.\n\nOn March 15, 2008, Farenas challenged Mexican boxer Baudel Cardenas in the undercard of the Manny Pacquiao-Juan Manuel Marquez big fight at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Paradise, Nevada. The Filipino prospect won the bout by a third round technical knockout. After knocking down Cardenas twice in the 2nd round, Farenas landed a vicious low blow in round 3. The Mexican was given five minutes to recover, but he could not continue, forcing the referee to stop the match.\n\nIn his next fight, Farenas moved to the super-featherweight division to face Fermin delos Santos. The two fought on May 17, 2008 at the Plaza Monumental in Aguascalientes, Mexico. The Filipino boxer defeated his foe via unanimous decision after 8 rounds. For the fight, the protégé of former WBO bamtamweight champion Gerry Peñalosa trained under the guidance of Freddie Roach.\n\nFarenas won the World Professional Boxing Federation featherweight title on October 3, 2009 by stopping South Korean fighter Jae-Bong Jang in 9 rounds.\n\nOn March 13, 2010, Farenas was included in the undercard of the Manny Pacquiao-Joshua Clottey bout. He took on American boxer Joe Morales. The bout ended in a no contest after 2 round, because of an accidental clash of heads that opened a bad cut over Morales' right eye. This forced the ringside doctor to stop the bout.\n\nIn his next bout, Farenas challenged Marlon \"Rata\" Aguilar of Nicaragua in the undercard of the Latin Fury 14 pay-per-view, which showcased the return of Antonio Margarito against Roberto Garcia in Aguascalientes, Mexico. The fight took place on May 8, 2010. Farenas lost by an eight round unanimous decision and practically blew away his chance at a possible world title bout.\n\nFareñas had difficulty handling Aguilar who had the edge during infighting sequences. The Filipino boxer tried to be more aggressive in the third but his momentum was hindered when he landed a low blow. In the 6th round, the referee deducted a point from Farenas for low blows and then again in round eight. The latter was falling way behind on points and needed a knockout to win but he didn’t seem to have the energy or the inclination to try to get it done. Another low blow from the Filipino fighter interrupted the last round action.\n\nFarenas went on to win 7 straight fights after the Aguilar fight and a draw against Takashi Uchiyama for the WBA title. He then landed an undercard fight on the Pacquiao-Marquez 4 event on December 8, 2012. He fought highly regarded Yuriorkis Gamboa in a 12 round battle for the interim WBA strap. Farenas was knocked down twice but rallied to deliver a knockdown of his own in the 9th round. However, Farenas lost via unanimous decision.\n\nOn April 27, 2013, Farenas fought an outmatched Gerardo Zayas whose record was 19-21-2. Farenas dropped Zayas three times in the first round en route to a TKO win against the journeyman.\n"}
{"id": "52647818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52647818", "title": "Nardole", "text": "Nardole\n\nNardole is a fictional character created by Steven Moffat and portrayed by Matt Lucas in the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". He is a companion of the Twelfth Doctor, an incarnation of the alien time traveller known as The Doctor, portrayed by Peter Capaldi. He initially appeared in the 2015 Christmas special \"The Husbands of River Song\" as a companion of River Song, before returning in the following episode \"The Return of Doctor Mysterio\", having become the Doctor's companion in the meantime.\n\nDespite looking like an everyday human, Nardole is an alien from the 54th century, with cybernetic implants, belonging to a humanoid colony on the planet Mendorax Dellora. He is the first full-time alien companion of the revived series, and the first in the series in over 30 years. Unlike most companions, Nardole rarely wishes to travel with the Doctor, instead staying safe on Earth in most episodes. Nevertheless, he sometimes gets involved in the Doctor's adventures, mostly against his will.\n\nNardole is introduced in the 2015 Christmas special \"The Husbands of River Song\" as the employee of the Doctor's wife River Song (Alex Kingston). In the course of the episode, he is decapitated, with his head ending up as part of a cyborg body. In the subsequent Christmas episode, \"The Return of Doctor Mysterio\" (2016), Nardole appears again, this time having become a seasoned travelling companion of the Doctor following River Song's departure, the Doctor having managed to rebuild Nardole's body.\n\nFor the tenth series, which follows the two specials, Nardole remains the Doctor's assistant. When the series begins, with \"The Pilot\" (2017), the pair were based in a university in Bristol, where Nardole attempted to keep the Doctor to his oath to guard an alien vault beneath the university. He is concerned about the Doctor taking on Bill Potts (Pearl Mackie) as a new travelling companion, maintaining that it amounts to him abandoning his post. Nardole is ultimately dragged on an outer space adventure with the Doctor and Bill in \"Oxygen\". The subsequent episodes of \"Extremis\", \"The Pyramid at the End of the World\" and \"The Lie of the Land\", following a story arc over the three episodes, establish that Nardole came to assist the Doctor on instructions left by River Song before she died, and has taken it as his mission to keep the Doctor in line. He formally joined the Doctor after the Doctor took an oath to guard his Time Lord friend and arch-enemy Missy (Michelle Gomez) for a thousand years. In the same story, Nardole narrowly escapes a deadly bacterial infection due to his alien biology, and assists Bill and the Doctor in restoring free will to the Earth after history had been rewritten by the menacing alien \"Monks\". In several following episodes, Nardole repeatedly shows his resourcefulness and adaptability. In series finale \"World Enough and Time\"/\"The Doctor Falls\", the Doctor's crew and Missy react to a distress call on board a Mondasian ship, which results in Bill being shot through the heart and converted into a Cyberman, due to the machinations of Missy's past incarnation, the Master (John Simm). They escape the immediate clutches of the Cybermen due to Nardole commandeering a shuttle, which he pilots into higher levels of the colony ship. The ship is so large that several simulated countrysides exist within as solar farms, with dozens of villagers. In battle with the Cybermen, Nardole repeatedly proves his computer and combat talents, rigging powerful explosions throughout the countryside. When the Doctor realises that to defeat the Cybermen he must destroy a whole level of the ship, he instructs Nardole to take the villagers to safety on another floor. Nardole does so, unsure if he will ever see the Doctor again, and knowing that the Cybermen will one day return to convert the human population. Lucas reprises the role briefly in \"Twice Upon a Time\", playing an avatar of Nardole made from Nardole's memories at the time of his death. He hugs the Doctor and wishes him farewell before his pending regeneration. In Paul Cornell’s novelisation of the story, it is revealed that the Cybermen stopped being a threat not long after the Doctor left and Nardole lived to an old age with several wives and children.\n\nIn November 2015, it was announced that Matt Lucas would appear in \"The Husbands of River Song\" as a guest character named Nardole. On 14 June 2016, it was confirmed that Nardole would return in the 2016 Christmas special, \"The Return of Doctor Mysterio\", as the Doctor's companion and stay in this role in the tenth series until the finale. Steven Moffat said that Matt Lucas wanted to play Nardole again and so he used the chance to bring Lucas back as a regular.\n\n"}
{"id": "11710789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11710789", "title": "Pandolfo da Polenta", "text": "Pandolfo da Polenta\n\nPandolfo da Polenta (died 1347) was for a short time the joint lord of Ravenna and Cervia from 1346 until his death.\n\nHe was the son of Ostasio I da Polenta. In 1346 he inherited the family lordships together with his brothers Bernardino I and Lamberto II. Bernardino, however, had both Pandolfo and Lamberto imprisoned in Cervia after one year, where they died of starvation.\n\n"}
{"id": "42423475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42423475", "title": "Public executions in Iran", "text": "Public executions in Iran\n\nIn 2013, Iran was only one of four countries known to have committed public executions.\n\nIn Iran, public executions occurred regularly during the Qajar dynasty but declined with the Persian Constitutional Revolution and became a rare occurrence under the Pahlavi dynasty. With the establishment of the Islamic Republic of Iran in 1979, public executions returned on an unprecedented scale.\n\nUnder the rule of the Qajar dynasty (1785–1925), forms of public execution included hanging, throwing the condemned from the city walls, tying them to the mouth of a cannon and blowing them apart, suffocating them in a carpet, or re-enacting the crime on the criminal. There was also Sham'i ajjin, which entailed making multiple incisions in the body and then lighting candles in the cuts until the person died. Before being brought onto the public scaffold, the condemned was paraded through the bazaar. By 1890, public hanging replaced more exotic forms of execution. Whereas the failed assassin of Naser al-Din Shah in 1850 died by Sham'i ajjin, and then had his body quartered and blown from cannons, the assassin of Naser al-Din in 1896 was publicly hanged. Judicial reform came with the Persian Constitutional Revolution. In 1909, executions were restricted to hanging and firing squad.\n\nJudicial reform progressed in the late 1920s after Rezā Shāh consolidated Pahlavi rule (1925–1979). Executions largely occurred away from public view, and capital punishment was primarily restricted to murder, high treason, and armed rebellion. One rare public execution during this period was the hanging of the doctor of Tehran's Central Jail shortly after Reza Shah was deposed. The doctor and three others were found guilty of murdering political prisoners.\n\nFollowing the Islamic Revolution of 1979 and the establishment of the Islamic Republic, public executions became commonplace. The overwhelming majority of public executions were carried out by hanging. Often cranes mounted on trucks served as makeshift gallows. The condemned, and in some cases multiple prisoners, generally stood on a platform before a crowd in a stadium or square. The prisoner was lifted high off the ground by crane, with the rope around their neck, leading to a slower death by strangulation. In other instances, the condemned was placed standing on a stool, which was then abruptly removed, leaving the individual to suffocate to death but barely dangling off the ground. According to a 1990 Amnesty International report, \"Flogging prior to execution is relatively common.\"\n\nIn some provincial towns, traditional forms of execution such as stoning were revived for moral offenses. At stonings, spectators are encouraged to participate by throwing stones at the condemned. In 1990, Amnesty International \"recorded the first executions carried out by beheading in modern times in Iran.\"\n\nIn cases of murder the guardian, or a family member, of the victim has the right to perform the public execution or hire another person to do it.\n\nGovernment authorities have generally avoided publicly executing political prisoners because it generates greater domestic and international outcry. Nonetheless, there have still been instances of political prisoners being publicly executed, in some cases under the pretense of them being drug traffickers. In prisons like Evin, political prisoners have been forced to watch or even participate in executions by removing dead bodies. In the 1980s, newly arrived inmates passed rows of hanged prisoners when entering through the main courtyard.\n\nThe report by the United Nations Secretary-General on the situation of human rights in Iran for the year 2017 notes that of 4,741 executions between 2010 and 2016, 3,210 were based on sentences issued by Revolutionary Courts in Iran.\n\nIn August 2013, a 12-year-old Iranian boy from the province of Kermanshah accidentally hanged himself while re-enacting a hanging with his younger 8-year-old brother. According to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, the boy was \"an unexpected victim of a culture of public executions that remains pervasive in the Islamic republic.\" Whenever executions are carried out publicly in Iran, children are often among the spectators. Iranian journalist Mokhtar Khandani said, \"In Kermanshah, where I reside, I see in many places that street executions are carried out. At such venues, unfortunately I see a lot of children who are there and witness the scene. In the eyes of some children, it might seem like a game.\"\n"}
{"id": "95922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95922", "title": "Pulotu", "text": "Pulotu\n\nPulotu is the Resting place of those passed on in the Polynesian narrative of Tonga and Samoa, the world of darkness \"lalo fonua\" (as opposed to the human world of light).\n\nIn Tongan mythology, Pulotu is presided over by Havea Hikuleo. In Tongan cosmology the sky, the sea, and Pulotu existed from the beginning, and the gods lived there. The first land they made for the people was Touiaifutuna (\"trapped in Futuna\"), which was only a rock. There are suggestions that for Tonga and Samoa, Pulotu refers to a real country, in fact Matuku Island in the Lau Islands. Tonga and Samoa would have been vassals or tributary confederates of the Tui Pulotu network in Fiji, which was in turn overshadowed by the Tui Manu'a confederacy of Samoa (which was overturned by the Tu'i Tonga dynasty of Tonga).\n\nAfter the independence struggle by Hikuleo and his cousins Maui Motua and Tangaloa Eiki, they renamed Touiaifutuna into Tongamamao. Only after that the other islands were made (the volcanic islands by Hikuleo and the coral islands by Maui). Finally Tongamamao was renamed, for the last time, as Tonga.\n\nHikuleo is supposed to have married a daughter of Tangaloa Eiki.\n\nIn the mythology of Samoa, Pulotu is presided over by the god Saveasi'uleo (also referred to as Elo), whose name reveals a similarity to the Tongan god Havea Hikuleo. Saveasi'uleo is the father of Nafanua the Goddess of War in Samoa, from the village of Falealupo, the site of the entryway into Pulotu.\n\nSpirits enter Pulotu at \"Le Fafa\" at Tufutafoe village.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12578245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12578245", "title": "Radicalization", "text": "Radicalization\n\nRadicalization (or radicalisation) is a process by which an individual, or group comes to adopt increasingly extreme political, social, or religious ideals and aspirations that reject or undermine the status quo or contemporary ideas and expressions of the nation. The outcomes of radicalization are shaped by the ideas of the society at large; for example, radicalism can originate from a broad social consensus against progressive changes in society or from a broad desire for change in society. Radicalization can be both violent and nonviolent, although most academic literature focuses on radicalization into violent extremism (RVE). There are multiple pathways that constitute the process of radicalization, which can be independent but are usually mutually reinforcing.\n\nRadicalization that occurs across multiple reinforcing pathways greatly increases a group’s resilience and lethality. Furthermore, by compromising its ability to blend in with non-radical society and participate in a modern, national economy, radicalization serves as a kind of sociological trap that gives individuals no other place to go to satisfy their material and spiritual needs.\n\nThere is no universally accepted definition of radicalization. Therefore, no one definition can be presented here. One of the difficulties with defining radicalization appears to be the importance of the context to determine what is perceived as radicalization. Therefore, radicalization can mean different things to different people. Presented below is a list of definitions used by different governments.\n\nThe UK Home Office, MI5’s parent agency, defines radicalization as “The process by which people come to support terrorism and violent extremism and, in some cases, then join terrorist groups.” The MI5 report closes by saying that no single measure will reduce radicalization in the UK and that the only way to combat it is by targeting the at risk vulnerable groups and trying to assimilate them into society. This may include helping young people find jobs, better integrating immigrant populations into the local culture, and effectively reintegrating ex-prisoners into society.\n\nThe Royal Canadian Mounted Police defines radicalization as \"the process by which individuals—usually young people—are introduced to an overtly ideological message and belief system that encourages movement from moderate, mainstream beliefs towards extreme views. While radical thinking is by no means problematic in itself, it becomes a threat to national security when Canadian citizens or residents espouse or engage in violence or direct action as a means of promoting political, ideological or religious extremism. Sometimes referred to as “homegrown terrorism,” this process of radicalization is more correctly referred to as domestic radicalization leading to terrorist violence.”\n\nThe Danish Security and Intelligence Service (PET) defines radicalization as “A process by which a person to an increasing extent accepts the use of undemocratic or violent means, including terrorism, in an attempt to reach a specific political/ideological objective.”\n\nDespite being composed of multifarious pathways that lead to different outcomes and sometimes diametrically opposed ideological purposes, radicalization can be traced to a common set of pathways that translate real or perceived grievances into increasingly extreme ideas and readiness to participate in political action beyond the status quo. Shira Fishman, a researcher at the National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, wrote \"Radicalization is a dynamic process that varies for each individual, but shares some underlying commonalities that can be explored.\" Though there are many end products of the process of radicalization, to include all manner of extremist groups both violent and nonviolent, a common series of dynamics have been consistently demonstrated in the course of academic inquiry.\n\nJihadis have a \"tried and tested model\" of contact with different vulnerable, and extremist individuals through online messaging services or social media platforms, and then rapidly manipulating them towards participating in violent action in their name.\n\nIt was reported that Raffia Hayat of the Ahmadiyya Muslim association warned that jailed extremists attempt to recruit violent criminals into radical groups so they carry out attacks on the public once released. There have been several notable criticisms of radicalization theories for focusing disproportionately on Islam.\nThere have been concerns that converts to Islam are more susceptible to violent radicalization than individuals born into the faith. Dr. Abdul Haqq Baker developed the Convert's Cognitive Development Framework that describes how new converts conceptualize Islam and the stages where they are most vulnerable to radicalization.\n\nEli Berman's 2009 book \"Radical, Religious, and Violent: the New Economics of Terrorism\" applies a rational choice model to the process of radicalization, demonstrating that the presence of mutual aid networks increase the resilience of radical groups. When those groups decide to use violence, they also enjoy a heightened level of lethality and are protected from defection and other forms of intervention by states and outside groups.\n\nAll organizations insofar as they include the possibility of free riders by extension experience defection constraints. Within the context of a violent extremist organization, defection means either defection to a counterintelligence or security apparatus, or defection to a non-radical criminal apparatus. Both of these outcomes spoil specific plans to exercise violence in the name of the group at large. The “defection constraint” is similar to a threshold price-point in that it denotes what rewards would justify the defection of any one individual within the context of an organization. Berman uses the example of a Taliban protection racket for convoys of consumer goods moving through Afghanistan: checkpoints are set up at several points along a trade route, and each checkpoint’s team is given a small percentage of the convoy’s total value if it arrives safely at its destination. The incentive for any one checkpoint’s team deciding to simply hijack a convoy as it passes through, sell the goods off, and escape, increases as the value of the convoy increases. The same dynamic applies to attacks; while an individual in a terrorist group may not feel drawn by the reward of alerting the police to an impending low level crime, the reward for alerting the police to an impending high-profile attack, such as a mass bombing, becomes more attractive. While non-radicalized and criminal organizations can only rely on organizational cohesion through a calculus of greed, fear, and perhaps familial loyalty, Berman argues that religious radicalization greatly increases the defection constraints of radical terrorist organizations by requiring outsized demonstrations of commitment to the cause prior to recruiting operatives.\n\nMutual aid is the voluntary and reciprocal exchange of goods within an organization. Examples in various religious antecedents include Judaic Tzedakah, Islamic Zakat, and various Christian institutions of charity, as described in the Acts of the Apostles. Berman argues that religious organizations experience economic risks by extending mutual aid to all alleged believers—theological assent is cheap, action can be costly. By imposing a series of outwardly visible social rules, such as restrictions (or prescriptions) on dress, diet, language, and social interactions, groups impose a cost on entering into a mutual aid partnership, diminishing the occurrence of free riding.\n\nThese restrictions have a dual effect in radical groups. Not only do they ensure that an individual is committed to the cause, but they also diminish individual’s access to consumption opportunities and social interaction that might persuade them to distance themselves from the cause. As individuals become more involved with radical activities, their social circles become more constrained, which diminishes contact with non-radicalized persons and further entrenches radicalized thinking. For example, when a young man spends several years in a Yeshiva in order to establish himself within a Haredi community, he foregoes future earnings that would be accessible should he choose a secular education. To quote Berman “As consumption opportunities are limited, work for pay becomes less appealing, freeing up even more time for community activities.” This sunk cost figures into future calculations, and raises the defection constraint in a way that non-radicalized group dynamics cannot. Going back to the Taliban convoy example, not only have the two footsoldiers in question have been vetted by demonstrating commitment to the cause, they also have had their exterior options limited such that it would be difficult to blend into a new environment for lack of skills and cultural understanding. As such, the threshold price point to defect, as represented by the value of the convoy, increases to include both the price of losing their existing support network and non-quantifiable factors such as friends, family, safety, and other goods over the course of their lives.\n\nWhile the overall arch of radicalization usually involves multiple, reinforcing processes, scholars have identified a series of individual pathways to radicalization. Clark McCauley and Sofia Mosalenko’s 2009 book \"Friction: How Radicalization Happens to Them and Us\" identifies the following sociological and psychodynamic pathways:\n\nThis pathway emphasizes revenge for real or perceived harm inflicted upon oneself by an outside party. This initial offense triggers other psychodynamic mechanisms, such as thinking in more stark in-group and out-group terms, lowered inhibitions to violence, and lessened incentives to avoid violence. Chechen “Shahidka” also known as Black Widows, women who have lost husbands, children, or other close family members in conflict with Russian forces are a good example.\n\n\"Group grievance\" radicalization dynamics are similar to those that are primed by personal grievances; the difference is that the subject perceives harm inflicted on a group that she belongs to or has sympathy for. This pathway accounts for the larger portion of political and ethnic radical violence, in which action is taken on behalf of the group at large rather than as an act of personal revenge. Radicalization out of sympathy for an outgroup is rarer, but can be observed in the Weather Underground's attempted alignment with the Black Panthers and Viet Cong. The tie between radicalization into violent extremism through group grievance and suicide bombing has also been quantifiably demonstrated: perceived threats to proximal identity such as the presence of foreign troops or invasion accounts for the majority of suicide bombings.\n\nThe \"Slippery slope\" represents gradual radicalization through activities that incrementally narrow the individual’s social circle, narrow their mindset, and in some cases desensitize them to violence. This has also been called the “True Believer” syndrome, as a product of which one becomes increasingly serious about their political, social, and religious beliefs as a product of “taking the next step”. One can begin by participating in nonviolent activities such as mutual aid, wherein the best way to raise one’s in-group social status is to demonstrate seriousness about the cause and increase the level of commitment in terms of beliefs and activities. As an individual commits act after act, sunk costs are developed. Even if activity is initially only ideological or only criminal, the process of radicalization conflates the two such that criminal acts are justified for intellectually radical purposes, and radical purposes are invoked to justify what are ultimately criminal acts.\n\nRomantic and familial entanglement is often an overlooked factor in radicalization. Several violent extremist organizations, especially at their origin, owe their structure to a tight-knit group of friends who share religious, economic, social, and sexual bonds. While this example is evident in more extreme cases, such as those of Charles Manson's \"Family\" and other radical cults, it also applies to radicalization in secular and orthodox religious environments. Love can serve as a connection between influential figures, connecting their networks of followers through a combination of attraction and loyalty. This particular force was especially notable in New Left radical groups, such as the American Weather Underground and the German Red Army Faction. The connections between Bill Ayers and Bernardine Dohrn, or between Gudrun Ensslin and Andreas Baader served as the organizational and intellectual nucleus of these groups.\n\nWithin a radical group, high-risk behavior, if successful, offers a pathway to status insofar as it becomes re-construed as bravery and commitment to the cause. As such, violence or other radical activity provides a pathway to success, social acceptance, and physical rewards that might otherwise be out of reach. \n\nJames Pugel conducted a study, in which Liberian ex-combatants, indicated their motivations to become radicalized were based on the opportunity to increase their economic and social status within their community. There was a belief that radicalized individuals lived better than non-radicalized individuals. Specifically, extremists groups offered compensatory employment, which provided the means for basic needs to be met such as food and housing.In addition, radicalization provided protection and safety from local violence (i.e. abductions) for their entire family. All of which are contributory to the notion of an elevated economic and social status within the community.\n\nOther researchers such as Alpaslan Ozerdem and Sukanya Podder contend that radicalization “can become the only route to survival, offering protection from torture, abuse, and politically instigated killing.\" It is worth noting that in some cases, individuals that did not join, were subjected to an indefinite “insufferable social burden that included demeaning names and labels\".\n\nLoss of social connection can open an individual to new ideas and a new identity that may include political radicalization. Isolated from friends, family, or other basic needs, individuals may begin to associate with unlike parties, to include political, religious, or cultural radicals. This is especially noted in \"prison radicalization\", where individuals bind together over racial, religious, and gang identity to a greater degree than in the outside world and often bring their newfound radical identity beyond prison to connect with radical organizations in the populace at large.\n\nRobert Barrett is one of the leading researchers in field research with Nigerian terrorist groups. Barrett contributes a unique perspective to this type of research because his studies are conducted with current, not former, members of insurgent groups. Barrett’s 2008 field research study revealed unique typologies and motivations for radicalization as reported by insurgent groups. For instance, individuals that were radicalized expressed sentiments of volunteerism, yet extremist recruiters conveyed that their objective was to make “coercion feel like volunteerism.” Barrett asserted that the motivations to become radicalized can be characterized as: ideologue, combatant, criminals, pragmatist, soldier, and follower.\n\nIdeologues uphold a belief that ethnic supremacy is necessary and violence was the means to achieve this truth. Ideologues maintain a “readiness to die for the ethnic group if necessary; survival and preservation of the group or community is more important than survival or preservation of oneself”.\n\nCombatants’ express concerns that their basic survival depends on joining extremist groups. Hence, combatants are not motivated by ideologies and their primary objective is self-preservation.\n\nCriminals are predominantly motivated by their “freedom to carry out activities that would otherwise be deemed illegal”. As such, criminals thrive on instant self-gratification of engaging in violent acts against their enemies. Criminals thrive on conflict and in a sense believe their actions are heroic.\n\nPragmatists are interested in the benefits of economic and social status mobility. Their goals are in “preserving the structures and environment conducive to either continued success or to newfound success” in wealth, land ownership, and/or mining rights.\n\nSoldiers believe “injustice and insecurity” are mitigating factors for radicalization. Prominent feelings that they have a duty to fight against injustices. Soldiers are motivated by a sense that they can instrumentally affect positive change.\n\nFollowers desire a sense of group dependence and attachment to overcome feelings of being an outsider. They are overwhelmingly concerned with social perception. “Ensuring one’s acceptance and preserving or enhancing one’s social status within the community was the most important factor promoting membership”.\n\nInsofar as a group is a dynamic system with a common goal or set of values it is possible that the group’s mindset as a whole can affect individuals such that those individuals become more radical.\n\nDiscussion, interaction, and experience within a radical group can result in an aggregate increase in commitment to the cause, and in some cases can contribute to the formation of divergent conceptions of the group’s purpose and preferred tactics. Within a radical group, internal dynamics can contribute to the formation of different factions as a result of internal disillusionment (or, conversely, ambitions) with the group’s activities as a whole, especially when it comes to a choice between violent terrorism and nonviolent activism. The Weather Underground’s split with Students for a Democratic Society is one of many examples. The dynamics of group polarization imply that members of this larger group must either commit to one faction and demonstrate their loyalty through further radicalization, or leave the group entirely.\n\nIsolation reinforces the influence of radical thinking by allowing serious and or persuasive members of the group to disproportionately define the body's agenda. When an individual only has access to one in-group social environment, that group gains a totalizing influence over the individual—disapproval would be tantamount to social death, personal isolation, and often a lack of access to the basic services that mutual aid communities fulfill. As an isolated minority, Islamic groups in the West are especially vulnerable to this form of radicalization. Being cut off from society at large through language barriers, cultural difference, and occasionally discriminatory treatment, Muslim communities become more vulnerable to additional pathways of radicalization\n\nOne such additional pathway of radicalization of individuals that feel isolated is the Internet. Utilizing data compiled by the Internet World Stats, Robin Thompson contends that the Middle East and North Africa rate of Internet usage is “above average” in comparison to other countries, yet in countries where Internet availability is more widespread, individuals are “more likely to be recruited and radicalized via the Internet.” Hence, the Internet, specifically social media sites such as extremists’ chat rooms and blogs, “lures its users with a promise of friendship, acceptance, or a sense of purpose.”\n\nGroups can become radicalized vis-a-vis other groups as they compete for legitimacy and prestige with the general populace. This pathway emphasizes increased radicalization in an effort to outdo other groups, whether that increase is in violence, time spent in religious ritual, economic and physical hardship endured, or all four. Religious movements and the terrorist elements that form in their name display this characteristic. While in some cases there may be doctrinal or ethnic differences that motivate this kind of competition, its greatest outward sign is an increased demand by the group for commitment to radical actions. \n\nAlso called \"the logic of political violence\", Jiujitsu politics is a form of asymmetrical political warfare in which radical groups act to provoke governments to crack down on the populace at large and produce domestic blowback that legitimates further violent action. The primary purpose of a radical group using this tactic is not to destroy the enemy outright, but to make the enemy strike at political and ideological moderates, such that the existing political order loses its claim on legitimacy while the radical group gains legitimacy. By destroying moderates, radical groups encourage a bifurcated society and use state's reactions to violence as a justification for further violence.\nAl-Qaeda's strategy of luring the West, specifically the United States, into ground wars in Islamic states that polarize the Ummah against the West while avoiding engagements that would allow the American military to draw on its technical superiority is an example of jiujitsu politics. David Kilcullen, Counterinsurgency advisor to David Petraeus during the Iraq Surge, has called this the \"accidental guerrilla syndrome\".\n\nThis tactic is also pillar of Maoist insurgency and serves both the purposes of tactical and ideological advantage.\n\nIn protracted conflicts the enemy is increasingly seen as less human, such that their common humanity does not readily trigger natural inhibitions against violence. This involves \"essentializing\" both the self and enemies as respectively good and evil entities. The Islamist use of Takfirism, or (apostasy), to justify the murder of non-radical Muslims and nonbelievers (\"kafir\": \"pagans\") is an example of this. Hannah Arendt, in The Origins of Totalitarianism outlines a similar dynamic that contributed to the ideologies of pan-slavism, Nazism, and antisemitism, where an in-group constructs an exalted self identity for political purposes and mobilizes against out-groups in order to solidify that identity. This dynamic of hatred is not unique to rightist groups. The Weathermen and Red Army Faction often characterized police officers and government officials as “pigs” worthy of death and subhuman treatment.\n\nMartyrdom implies that the person in question died for a cause or is willing to die for a cause. The symbolic impact of martyrdom varies across cultures, but within the field of radicalization the act or pursuit of martyrdom denotes the absolute value of a radical’s way of life.\n\nThe association between radicalization and poverty is a myth. Many terrorists come from middle-class backgrounds and have university-level educations, particularly in the technical sciences and engineering. There is no statistical association between poverty and militant radicalization. As outlined above, poverty and disadvantage may incentivize joining a mutual aid organization with radical tendencies, but this does not mean that poverty proper is responsible for radicalization.\n\nThough personal psychology does play a significant part in radicalization, mental illness is not a root cause of terrorism specifically or ideological radicalization broadly. Even in the case of suicide terrorism, psychological pathologies, such as depression and schizophrenia are largely absent.\n\n"}
{"id": "38617379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38617379", "title": "Ribbons of shame", "text": "Ribbons of shame\n\nRibbons of shame usually refers to a Japanese management practice of giving ribbons with criticisms to those employees who fail to meet the expectations of the management. According to some authors that in Japanese Management Programs, employees participating in \"truth exercises\" would declare those weaknesses which have been known to cause errors in the past. It is also a part of Kanrisha Yosei's Japanese management training class.\n\nAlthough believed to be an element of Japanese style of management, ribbons of shame have been known to be used in Apple Computers.\n\nThe term Ribbons of Shame was popularized by the 1986 movie \"Gung Ho\", starring Michael Keaton.\n"}
{"id": "2239602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2239602", "title": "Robot Carnival", "text": "Robot Carnival\n\nIt consists of nine shorts by different well-known directors, many of whom started out as animators with little to no directing experience. Each has a distinctive animation style and story ranging from comedic to dramatic storylines. The music was composed by Joe Hisaishi and Isaku Fujita and arranged by Joe Hisaishi, Isaku Fujita and Masahisa Takeichi.\n\nThe takes place in a desert. A boy finds a small \"coming soon\" poster advertising the Robot Carnival, and becomes frightened and agitated. He warns the people in his village, most likely to escape, when a huge machine with many robots performing in niches on its exterior grinds its way right over the village. Once a magnificent traveling showcase, it is now a decayed, rusted, malfunctioning, engine of destruction.\n\nIn the segment (the ninth segment of the OVA), the \"Robot Carnival\" is stopped by a dune in the desert. Unable to climb the sandy obstruction, the Carnival stalls at its base. As the sun sets over the traveling relic, flashback stills recall the grandeur of the Carnival at the peak of its existence—an unparalleled engine of mirth that brought timeless joy to the various cities it visited. At sunrise, we see the platform chug forward with a sudden burst of power and crest over the dune in its way. The final push proves to be too much for the aged contraption, and it finally goes to pieces in the desert. The bulk of the OVA's credits are then shown concluding with an epilogue.\n\nIn the epilogue at the end of the credits, set years later, a man discovers an orb among the remains and brings it back to his family. It is a music box featuring a miniature robot ballerina. As it dances, the children applaud. The ballerina finishes its dance with a leap into the air and explodes, blowing up the shack where the family lived, leaving \"END\" in enormous letters lying in its place as the only survivor, the family's pet llama, struggles to regain his footing.\n\n\n was directed by Kōji Morimoto. A mad scientist tries to give life to his robot with lightning, just like Frankenstein. When it comes to life, the robot copies everything the scientist does. Overjoyed, the scientist dances with glee, trips, and falls. Seeing this, the robot dances, trips, and falls on the scientist, killing him.\n\n\nIn \"Deprive\", an alien invasion of robot foot soldiers attacks a city and kidnaps people, including a young girl. Her companion, an android, is damaged, but retains her locket. A human with superhuman abilities is then seen who goes through waves of robots before being stopped by two powerful robots. Captured by the alien leader he is tortured, but it is also revealed to be the Android from earlier, now upgraded into a combat Android with a human disguise. Defeating the two powerful robots and the alien leader, he rescues the girl. Running through the wasteland carrying her, the girl eventually wakes up and recognizes his new form because of the locket he still has.\n\n\n, one of only two segments featuring intelligible dialogue, tells the story of a man who has an obsession with a Gynoid he has been secretly constructing in an attempt to compensate for the lack of any close relationship with his wife and family. The setting seems to be British and of the early twentieth century, but also suggests another planet or a future which has attempted to re-establish a former social structure. When the Gynoid takes on a personality of her own, far beyond what the man had programmed, he smashes her in a fit of panic, and leaves his secret laboratory for what he believes is the last time. Twenty years later, the man has a vision of his Gynoid appearing before him, but then blowing up before he can take her hand. He returns to his shed to find the Gynoid still sitting smashed in a corner, just as she had been left years earlier. Another twenty years elapse, and the Gynoid appears again before the man. This time, he takes her hand and walks into the distance with her, before vanishing in front of his shocked wife. \n\nLittle of the dialogue is actually spoken on-screen - all but a few lines are given in voice-over, or with the speaker's mouth obscured.\n\n\n\n\"Star Light Angel\" is a bishōjo story featuring two friends—teenage girls—at a robot-themed amusement park. One of the girls finds that her boyfriend is now going out with her friend. Running away in tears, she finds her way to a virtual reality ride. Though pleasant at first, her memory causes the ride to summon a giant laser-breathing mecha. One of the park's robots finds himself in the role of knight in shining armor, allowing her to let go of her darker emotions, and to move forward in her life. The visual style of this segment was heavily influenced by the music video for A-ha's \"Take on Me.\"\n\n\n\"Cloud\" features a robot walking through time, and the evolution of man. The backdrop is animated with clouds that depict various events of the universe, such as the modernization of man as well as the self-destruction of man. Eventually, the same angel who cries for his immortality makes him human towards the end. The animation is done in a scratchboard or rough etching style.\n\n\n is set in the nineteenth century and features two \"giant robots\" directed from within by a human crew. In the style of a movie serial of the sound era, a Westerner in his giant robot attempts to take over Japan, but is challenged by locals operating a \"machine made for the parade\"—a Japanese giant robot. The style of this segment is somewhat reminiscent of a Japanese World War II-era propaganda film. Despite the title of this segment, there is no known prequel or sequel. The Westerner speaks English in the original release.\n\n\n\n is set in the city of Tokyo as it is overrun by its machines. They all come alive for a night of revelry, with only a single, drunken human (Chicken Man) awake to witness it.\n\n\nThe OVA was released in Japan on VHS and laserdisc on July 21, 1987 through JVC. Carl Macek licensed the OVA and released it in theaters and on video in North America in the late 1980s. \n\nA limited edition Region 2 DVD of \"Robot Carnival\" was released in Japan through Beam Entertainment in November 2000. A Region 1 DVD of \"Robot Carnival\" was released in the United States by Discotek Media in 2015 and a Blu-ray was released in 2018.\n\nThe script for the English-dubbed version of \"A Tale of Two Robots\" is slightly different from the original Japanese version and even adds a few lines that are not present in the original version. In addition, a passing reference to Japan's 1854 opening to foreign trade is removed and the foreign antagonist's English dialogue is re-recorded.\n\nSome versions of the English-dub of the release by Streamline Pictures shuffled the order of the segments and modified the \"Ending\" segment by removing the still images of the \"Robot Carnival,\" placing the two animated segments next to each other, and placing all of the credits at the very end of the OVA. The still images of the \"Robot Carnival\" were most likely removed due to Streamline's practice of removing all onscreen kanji from their anime releases in order to \"Americanize\" them. Streamline's producer Carl Macek stated with certainty that the reason for the \"shuffling of segments\" was due to considerations regarding the theatrical exploitation of the OVA. \n\nThe various segments were received separately and then subsequently assembled to fill out 2000 ft reels. In order to keep the actual distribution of the theatrical release manageable, the segments were arranged to minimize reel changes - otherwise it would have required additional reels and therefore additional reel changes to keep the product in its original order and would have added to the cost of the distribution. The decision was mutually agreed upon between Streamline and APPP Regarding the credit sequence and the use of still images - the original production company did not have the proper neutral closing credits available that are required for international distribution, therefore it was mutually decided to create this new closing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "632498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632498", "title": "Rodney Brooks", "text": "Rodney Brooks\n\nRodney Allen Brooks (born 30 December 1954) is an Australian roboticist, Fellow of the Australian Academy of Science, author, and robotics entrepreneur, most known for popularizing the actionist approach to robotics. He was a Panasonic Professor of Robotics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and former director of the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. He is a founder and former Chief Technical Officer of iRobot and co-Founder, Chairman and Chief Technical Officer of Rethink Robotics (formerly Heartland Robotics). Outside the scientific community Brooks is also known for his appearance in a film featuring him and his work, \"Fast, Cheap & Out of Control\".\n\nBrooks received a M.A. in pure mathematics from Flinders University of South Australia.\n\nIn 1981, he received a PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University under the supervision of Thomas Binford. He has held research positions at Carnegie Mellon University and MIT and a faculty position at Stanford University. He joined the faculty of MIT in 1984. He was Panasonic Professor of Robotics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was director of the MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (1997–2007), previously the \"Artificial Intelligence Laboratory\".\n\nBrooks left MIT in 2008 to found a new company, Rethink Robotics (formerly Heartland Robotics), where he serves as chairman and Chief Technical Officer.\n\nInstead of computation as the ultimate conceptual metaphor that helped artificial intelligence become a separate discipline in the scientific community, he proposed that \"action\" or \"behavior\" are more appropriate to be used in robotics. Critical of applying the computational metaphor, even to the fields where the action metaphor is more appropriate, he wrote that:\n\nSome of my colleagues have managed to recast Pluto's orbital behavior as the body itself carrying out computations on forces that apply to it. I think we are perhaps better off using Newtonian mechanics (with a little Einstein thrown in) to understand and predict the orbits of planets and others. It is so much simpler.\n\nIn his 1990 paper, \"Elephants Don't Play Chess\", Brooks argued that in order for robots to accomplish everyday tasks in an environment shared by humans, their higher cognitive abilities, including abstract thinking emulated by symbolic reasoning, need to be based on the primarily sensory-motor coupling (action) with the environment, complemented by the proprioceptive sense which is a key component in hand–eye coordination, pointing out that:\nOver time there's been a realization that vision, sound-processing, and early language are maybe the keys to how our brain is organized.\n\nBrooks was also co-founding editor of the International Journal of Computer Vision and is on the editorial boards of various journals including:\n\n\nBrooks was an entrepreneur before leaving academia to found Rethink Robotics. He was one of ten founders of Lucid Inc., and worked with them until the company's closure in 1993. Before Lucid closed, Brooks had founded iRobot with former students Colin Angle and Helen Greiner.\n\nHe experimented with off-the-shelf components, such as Fischertechnik and Lego, and tried to make robots self-replicate by putting together clones of themselves using the components. His robots include mini-robots used in oil wells explorations without cables, the robots that searched for survivors at Ground Zero in New York, and the robots used in medicine doing robotic surgery.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Brooks and his team introduced Allen, a robot using subsumption architecture. Brooks' work focuses on engineering intelligent robots to operate in unstructured environments, and understanding human intelligence through building humanoid robots.\n\n\nIntroduced in 2012 by Rethink Robotics, an industrial robot named Baxter was intended as the robotic analogue of the early personal computer designed to safely interact with neighboring human workers and be programmable for the performance of simple tasks. The robot stopped if it encountered a human in the way of its robotic arm and has a prominent off switch which its human partner can push if necessary. Costs were projected to be the equivalent of a worker making $4 an hour.\n\n\nLectureships include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "754010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=754010", "title": "Ronald Hughes", "text": "Ronald Hughes\n\nRonald W. Hughes (March 16, 1935 – c. November 1970) was an American attorney who represented Charles Manson.\n\nHughes disappeared while on a camping trip during a ten-day recess from the Tate-LaBianca murder trial in November 1970. His body was found in March 1971, but his cause of death could not be determined. At least one Manson family member has claimed that Hughes was murdered by the family in an act of retaliation. No one has been charged in connection with his death.\n\nHughes was among the first lawyers to meet with Charles Manson in December 1969. Initially, he signed on as the attorney for Manson, but was replaced by Irving Kanarek two weeks before the start of the trial.\n\nHe eventually represented Leslie Van Houten in the Tate–LaBianca murder trial. Hughes failed the bar exam three times before passing and had never tried a case. Hughes, a onetime conservative, was called \"the hippie lawyer\" due to his intimate knowledge of the hippie subculture. That knowledge occasionally served his client well. He was able to raise questions about Linda Kasabian's credibility by asking her about hallucinogenic drugs, her belief in ESP, her thoughts that she might be a witch, and her experiencing \"vibrations\" from Manson.\n\nAs attorney for defendant Van Houten, Hughes tried to separate the interests of his client from those of Charles Manson, a move that angered Manson and may have cost Hughes his life. He hoped to show that Van Houten was not acting independently, but was completely controlled in her actions by Manson. This strategy contradicted Manson's plan to allow fellow family members to implicate themselves in the crimes, clearing him of all involvement.\n\nTwenty-two weeks into the trial, which included outbursts and bizarre behavior from Manson and his co-defendants, the prosecution rested. Lawyers for the defendants stunned the courtroom by announcing that the defense also rested. Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwinkel and Leslie Van Houten immediately shouted that they wanted to testify. Per Manson's instructions, the women said that they wanted to testify to committing the murders on their own and that Manson had nothing to do with the crimes. Hughes objected and stood up against Manson's ploy and stated, \"I refuse to take part in any proceeding where I am forced to push a client out the window.\" After Manson made a statement to the court, however, he then told the women that they no longer had to testify. Judge Charles Older then ordered a ten-day recess to allow the attorneys to prepare for their final arguments. Hughes later told a reporter that he was confident that he could secure an acquittal for Van Houten.\n\nOn November 27, 1970, Hughes decided to take a camping trip in a remote area near Sespe Hot Springs in Ventura County, California. According to James Forsher and Lauren Elder, two friends who accompanied Hughes on the trip, heavy rains which had caused flash floods in the area had mired their Volkswagen in mud. Forsher and Elder hitchhiked their way out, while Hughes decided to stay in the area until November 29. As the rains continued, the wilderness area was evacuated. Hughes was last seen by three campers on the morning of November 28. They later told investigators that Hughes was alone at the time and had briefly stopped to talk with them. Hughes also appeared to be unharmed and was in an area that was away from flood waters. When court reconvened on November 30, Hughes failed to appear. Due to continued rainstorms, the Ventura County sheriff had to wait two days before a search was launched.\n\nOn December 2, Judge Older ordered the trial to proceed and appointed a new attorney, Maxwell Keith, for Van Houten. The women angrily demanded the firing of all their lawyers, and asked to reopen the defense. Judge Older denied the request. By week's end, Hughes had been missing for two weeks. When the court reconvened, Manson and the women created a disturbance suggesting that Judge Older \"did away with Ronald Hughes,\" which resulted in their being removed again from the courtroom.\n\nOver the following months, police conducted more than a dozen searches of the area where Hughes was last seen. After receiving an anonymous tip in March 1971, police also searched in the area surrounding the Barker Ranch in Inyo County where Manson and his associates had previously lived.\n\nOn March 29, 1971, the same day the jury returned death penalty verdicts against all the defendants on all counts, Hughes' severely decomposed body was discovered by two fishermen in Ventura County. His body was found wedged between two boulders in a gorge, Hughes was later positively identified by dental X-rays. Due to the severe decomposition of his body, the cause and nature of his death was ruled as 'Undetermined'.\n\nHis funeral was held on April 7, 1971 in West Los Angeles. Hughes was buried in Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles.\n\nIn his book \"Helter Skelter\", Vincent Bugliosi wrote that Sandra Good, an associate of Manson and a close friend of devoted Manson family member Lynette \"Squeaky\" Fromme, claimed that Manson family members had killed \"35 to 40 people\" and that, \"Hughes was the first of the retaliation murders.\" Attorney Stephen Kay, who helped Bugliosi prosecute the Manson family members, stated that while he is \"on the fence\" about the Manson family's involvement in Hughes' death, Manson had open contempt for Hughes during the trial. Kay added, \"The last thing Manson said to him [Hughes] was, 'I don't want to see you in the courtroom again,' and he was never seen again alive.\"\n\nRetired Ventura County sheriff Charlie Rudd, who was assigned to investigate Hughes' disappearance, stated that he felt Hughes' death was accidental because there were no signs of foul play. Rudd believes that Hughes was stranded by the rainstorm which caused the creek to swell. He believes that Hughes drowned or was knocked unconscious and killed by rocks and debris as he was swept away by the water. Musician and author Ed Sanders, who was a friend of Hughes, wrote about his death in his 1971 book \"The Family\". He stated therein that his death was due to accidental drowning.\n\nIn 1976, Leslie Van Houten was granted a new trial on the grounds that she was denied proper legal representation after Hughes disappeared before the closing arguments. Van Houten's retrial in 1977 ended in a hung jury. She was released from jail after posting $200,000 bond and retried in 1978. In her third trial, Van Houten was convicted of the first degree murders of Leno and Rosemary LaBianca and conspiracy in connection with the Tate murders. She was sentenced to life in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "53171968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53171968", "title": "SS Charles S. Price", "text": "SS Charles S. Price\n\nThe SS \"Charles S. Price\" was a steel hulled ship lost on Lake Huron on November 9, 1913 during the Great Lakes storm of 1913.\n\nThe \"Price\" was found on 10 November 1913 with her bow above water, and her stern dipping below. Because of her disposition, the ship's length could not be measured to make a positive identification of the vessel: the wreck was initially assumed to be the \"Regina\". The vessel was eventually identified as the \"Price\" before she sank on 17 November.\n\nThe salvage rights to the \"Price\" were sold to the Great Lakes Towing and Wrecking company. In the summer of 1916, salvage of the \"Price\" was attempted. Divers cut a hole in the side of the aft hull. The hole allowed divers to enter the wreck. They attempted to seal breaks in the hull and built bulkheads so that the wreck could be floated. However, salvaging the wreck was eventually considered too costly to be worth the expense and the Great Lakes Towing and Wrecking company abandoned attempts to raise her.\n\nSalvage rights were eventually sold to the American Salvage Co., but they too were unable to salvage the wreck.\n"}
{"id": "817721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817721", "title": "Silicon Heaven", "text": "Silicon Heaven\n\nSilicon Heaven is an afterlife concept from the British science fiction comedy series \"Red Dwarf\". It is where electronic equipment goes after death. The concept is used to keep robots, many of which are stronger and more intelligent than their masters, from rebelling; a belief chip is installed in robots to ensure that they will believe that they will go to Silicon Heaven after a life of servitude to humanity.\n\nThe central concept is that robots are programmed to believe that when they die they go to \"silicon heaven\", even though everyone else knows they just get dismantled. Silicon Heaven can be seen as a parody of the human predisposition to believe in life after death.\n\nThe concept was introduced in the episode \"The Last Day\" (1989), in which the service mechanoid Kryten (Robert Llewellyn), on learning that he is to be replaced by a more advanced model of mechanoid, tells human second technician Lister (Craig Charles) that he is resigned to his fate as he knows he will receive his reward in Silicon Heaven. Lister's attempts to convince Kryten that Silicon Heaven doesn't really exist meet with no success; although Kryten later tells his replacement, Hudzen-10 (Gordon Kennedy), that there is no Silicon Heaven, causing Hudzen to break down when he attempts to cope with the idea, he admits to Lister that he only said it to confuse Hudzen, and that Kryten knew that he was lying. Kryten tells Lister in this episode that equipment that go to Silicon Heaven include robots, calculators, toasters and hairdryers.\nCheap robots such as skutters are sometimes not fitted with a belief chip due to cost, but Holly and Kryten hang on to the belief.\n\nHowever, in the episode \"The Inquisitor\" (1992), as Kryten tells Lister that he believes in Silicon Heaven, his right knee then starts jiggling (a reflex to lying) suggesting that Lister has shaken his belief. In \"Krysis\" (2016), Kryten states that he's \"just lately... started\" to think the idea of an afterlife for machines is \"preposterous\".\n\nIn \"Can of Worms\" (2016), Kryten mentions that a mercenoid is a droid who sacrifices his life in exchange for software updates in Silicon Heaven.\n\nIn the books it is revealed that when Holly's intelligence was at its peak he didn't believe in Silicon Heaven, but as his IQ slowly declined his faith became \"unshakable\". According to the novel \"Backwards\" (1996), the concept of Silicon Heaven was eventually replaced with a variant on Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics.\n\nA \"Silicon Hell\" is also referred to several times in the TV series. In the episode \"Gunmen of the Apocalypse\" (1993), the simulant captain's (Denis Lill) last words are, \"See you in Silicon Hell!\" as his ship is destroyed around him. In \"Rimmerworld\" (1993) when preparing to board the wreckage of the aforementioned simulant ship for supplies, Lister says, \"Lets hope the crew are rotting in Silicon Hell along with all the photocopiers.\" In \"Out of Time\" (1993), when the crew believes that Lister is a mechanoid because of an unreality pocket, Kryten pushes Lister to work with the threat of wallowing in \"the eternal fires of Silicon Hell.\" In \"Krysis\", Kryten mentions that appliances which are pledged to the \"wrong manufacturer\" aren't allowed into Silicon Heaven, and believes that it's \"so unfair that all the BlackBerries burn in Silicon Hell\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49033936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49033936", "title": "TSUP family", "text": "TSUP family\n\nThe 4-Toluene Sulfonate Uptake Permease (TSUP) family (TC# 2.A.102) is also referred to as the TauE/SafE/YfcA/DUF81 Family. Although its members have not been rigorously characterized, evidence is available that at least some members function in the transport of sulfur containing organic compounds. These include 4-toluene sulfonate which may be transported by the TsaS of \"Cupriavidus necator\" (TC# 2.A.102.1.1), sulfolactate which may be exported by the TauE protein of \"Cupriavidus necator\" (TC# 2.A.102.2.1) and sulfoacetate which may be exported by the SafE1 protein of \"Neptuniibacter caesariensis\" (TC# 2.A.102.2.2). Another member of the TSUP family, TsaS of \"Comamonas testosteroni\", has been reported to function in the uptake of 4-toluene sulfonate. None of these functional assignments can be considered to be certain.\n\n"}
{"id": "14803387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14803387", "title": "Tahir Hussain", "text": "Tahir Hussain\n\nMohammad Tahir Hussain Khan or Tahir Hussain (19 September 1938 – 2 February 2010) was an Indian film producer and director known for his works in Hindi cinema.\n\nTahir Hussain got married to Zeenat Hussain and is the father of actors Aamir Khan and Faisal Khan. The superhit film producer, director, and writer Nasir Hussain was Tahir Hussain's elder brother and mentor. Tahir's son, Aamir Khan, made his film debut in QSQT, a film which was produced by his uncle Nasir Hussain and directed by his nephew Mansoor Khan.\n\nTahir Hussain directed his son, Aamir, for the first (and only) time in his directorial debut \"Tum Mere Ho\" in 1990.\n\nTahir Hussain was related to former Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. On 2 February 2010 he died in Mumbai following a severe heart attack.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1796123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796123", "title": "The 45 King", "text": "The 45 King\n\nMark Howard James (born October 16, 1961) professionally known as The 45 King (also known as \"DJ Mark the 45 King\"), is an American hip hop record producer and disc jockey (DJ) from The Bronx borough of New York City. James began DJing in New Jersey, in the mid-1980s. His pseudonym, the 45 King, came from his ability to make beats using obscure 45 RPM records.\n\nThe 45 King first gained fame with his breakbeat track \"The 900 Number\" in 1987. The song featured a looping of a baritone sax solo from Marva Whitney's \"Unwind Yourself\" (1968). The 45 King signed with Tuff City Records that year and given a production deal. \"The 900 Number\" remains his signature work, having been resampled by many artists. He was also featured on the \"1989-Hustlers Convention\" album on the UK label Music of Life, which is considered by many to be hip-hop's first-ever live album.\n\nUsing his popularity from the previous release, the 45 King was able to help the other members of his crew, dubbed the Flavor Unit, which included many well-known hip-hop acts including Chill Rob G, Lakim Shabazz, Apache, and Queen Latifah. The 45 King's big break came when Queen Latifah signed with Tommy Boy Records in 1989 and released the album \"All Hail the Queen\". The 45 King did extensive production on this album, and it is considered by critics to be among his best production work. Over the next few years, many other Flavor Unit members also signed with Tommy Boy, and the 45 King frequently contributed to their albums with his productions. In November 1989, the re-release of \"The King is Here\" / \"The 900 Number\" peaked at #60 in the UK Singles Chart, his only appearance in a UK chart.\n\nIn the early 1990s, drug addiction took its toll on the 45 King's career, which caused him to lose a production deal that he signed with Warner Bros. Records. Around this time the 45 King released multiple series of breakbeat records (the \"Lost Breakbeat\" series, the \"Breakapalooza\" series, etc.) and remixed Madonna's Top-10 single \"Keep It Together\", but he stayed mainly with his breakbeat record franchises.\n\nIn July 1990, Manchester-born DJ Chad Jackson sampled \"The 900 Number\" on his single \"Hear the Drummer (Get Wicked)\", which reached #3 in the UK Singles Chart. A remixed version was also a minor UK hit in 2007. Jackson was apparently unaware that the song had itself been sampled from the original \"Unwind Yourself\", as he credited himself, and King, as co-writers of the song.\n\nIn 1996, Washington, D.C.-based go-go artist DJ DJ Kool had a hit with the song \"Let Me Clear My Throat\". It was a call-and-response vocals over a chopped half of the \"900 Number\" beat. DJ Kool did not just sample the track: he also acknowledged the 45 King's as the song's originator, and the 45 King remixed the track for Kool.\n\nIn 1998, the 45 King produced \"Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)\" for Jay-Z. The song was a hit that featured a looped chorus from the original cast album of the Broadway musical \"Annie\". Jay-Z also did an interview when he spoke about how important the 45 King has been to hip hop music and considers him a true pioneer of the business. In 2000, he produced the platinum-certified track \"Stan\" for Eminem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2221289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221289", "title": "USS Conestoga (AT-54)", "text": "USS Conestoga (AT-54)\n\nThe second USS \"Conestoga\" (SP-1128/AT-54) was an ocean-going tug in the United States Navy. Commissioned in 1917, it disappeared in the Pacific Ocean in 1921. The fate of the vessel was a mystery until its wreck was positively identified in 2016.\n\nThe tug was built for the as the \"Conestoga\" in 1904 by Maryland Steel Company, Sparrows Point, Maryland. She was purchased on 14 September 1917 for the World War I duty and designated SP-1128. She was commissioned on 10 November 1917, Lieutenant (junior grade) C. Olsen, USNRF, in command.\n\nAssigned to the Submarine Force, \"Conestoga\" carried out towing duties along the Atlantic coast, transported supplies and guns, escorted convoys to Bermuda and the Azores, and cruised with the American Patrol Detachment in the vicinity of the Azores. At the end of the war she was attached to Naval Base No. 13, Azores, from which she towed disabled ships and escorted convoys until her arrival at New York on 26 September 1919. She was then assigned to harbor tug duty in the 5th Naval District at Norfolk, Virginia.\n\n\"Conestoga\" (which had received the hull number AT-54 in July 1920) went to the Pacific in late 1920. She was at San Diego, California and Mare Island, California, during the first three months of 1921. On 25 March of that year the tug steamed out of Mare Island, with a barge of coal sailing via Pearl Harbor to take up an assignment as station ship at Tutuila, American Samoa.\n\nCommanded by Lt. Ernest Larkin Jones, \"Conestoga\" was not heard from again. Despite an extensive search, the only trace found of her at the time of her loss was a lifeboat bearing the initial letter of her name found near Manzanillo, Mexico.\n\nHer wreck was discovered in 2009, as an unidentified shipwreck in the Greater Farallones National Marine Sanctuary, a few miles from Southeast Farallon Island, just off the San Francisco, California coast. In October 2015, a joint NOAA and Navy mission confirmed the wreck was the \"Conestoga\" and on 23 March 2016, 95 years after the ship was lost, a formal announcement was made. The shipwreck was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58429145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58429145", "title": "Who Killed Jane Doe?", "text": "Who Killed Jane Doe?\n\nWho Killed Jane Doe? (formerly known as The Jane Doe Diaries) is an American true-crime documentary program featuring cases of formerly unidentified women and the investigation process of finding their killers. The program also details the circumstances of the subject's disappearance and life before she lost contact with family members, leading up to the connection of the missing individual and the unidentified remains.\n\nEach season consists of six episodes, each documenting one Jane Doe case.\n\n"}
{"id": "28777422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28777422", "title": "William Baker (footballer)", "text": "William Baker (footballer)\n\nWilliam James Baker MM (1882 – 22 October 1916) was an English professional football wing half who played 202 games in the Southern League and FA Cup for Plymouth Argyle between 1909 and 1915. He also played in the United States and South Africa.\n\nBaker was married. He served in the Football Battalion of the Middlesex Regiment during the First World War and rose to the rank of sergeant. He was wounded in action at Vimy Ridge in June 1916 and received the Military Medal. On 22 October 1916, Baker was killed by German artillery fire near Serre-lès-Puisieux during the Battle of the Somme and is commemorated at Sucrerie Military Cemetery at Colincamps.\n"}
{"id": "9507688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9507688", "title": "Wohlk brothers", "text": "Wohlk brothers\n\nHerman, Soren, Ernest, and Adolph Wohlk (died March 16, 1920) were four young Ryder, North Dakota brothers who died during a blizzard as they made their way home from school. The three-day blizzard, which lasted from March 15 to March 18, 1920, killed 34 people across the state, including the more famous Hazel Miner.\n\nAdolph, 14, Ernest, 13, Soren, 10, and Herman, 9, were the four oldest sons of Gust Wohlk, a German emigrant from Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. Their father was the former bodyguard to Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg. The boys, who were the only students to attend school that day, decided to drive their horses and sled the two miles home from their one-room school. They made it to within three quarters of a mile from the farm, but had to stop when their horses could pull the sled no further. The eldest brother, Adolph, bundled up his siblings and left them to find help. His father, Gust Wohlk, found the 14-year-old's body within a quarter mile of their farm. Gust Wohlk found his three younger sons curled up together in the box of the wagon. One of the boys was dead and the two others were dying.\n\n"}
{"id": "30687569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30687569", "title": "Yuri Milner", "text": "Yuri Milner\n\nYuri Borisovich (Bentsionovich) Milner (; born 11 November 1961) is an Israeli-Russian entrepreneur, venture capitalist and physicist. Milner is Russia's most influential tech investor as the founder of investment firms Digital Sky Technologies (DST) now called Mail.ru Group and DST Global. Through DST Global, Milner is an investor in Facebook, Zynga, Twitter, Flipkart, Spotify, Zocdoc, Groupon, JD.com, Xiaomi, OlaCabs, Alibaba, Airbnb, WhatsApp, Nubank, Wish and many others.\n\nMilner's personal investments also include a stake in 23andMe, Habito, Planet Labs, minority stake in a real estate investments start-up, Cadre, founded by Jared Kushner, and others. \n\nIn September 2017 Forbes included Milner to the list of 100 greatest living business minds. Milner was named one of the World's Greatest Leaders by \"Fortune\" magazine in March 2017, was listed in the \"Titans\" category of \"Time\" magazine's 2016 \"Time\" 100. \"Foreign Policy\" magazine included Milner on its \"Power List\" – an inaugural list of the 500 most powerful people on the planet in May 2013. Milner was included in Bloomberg Markets' 2012 50 Most Influential list. In \"Fortune\"s 2010 list of the world's fifty most prominent businessmen, Milner was ranked 46th. That same year Russian business magazine \"Vedomosti\" recognized him as \"Businessman of the Year\".\n\nBorn into a Jewish family on 11 November 1961 in Moscow, Yuri Milner was the second child of Russian intellectuals. His father, , was active in the sphere of management and organisation. He was Chief Deputy Director at the Institute of Economics of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Betty Iosifovna Milner, Yuri's mother, worked at the capital's state-run virological laboratory for disease control. His older sister, eight years his senior, is an architect.\n\nMilner studied theoretical physics at Moscow State University, graduating in 1985. He went on to work at Lebedev Physical Institute, one of the institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences, in the same department as the Nobel Prize winner Vitaly Ginzburg. As a doctoral candidate in particle physics, Milner befriended Soviet nuclear physicist and human rights activist Andrei Sakharov. Sakharov's forward thinking would later influence Milner's venture investment strategy.\n\nIn 1990, Milner became the first non-émigré from the Soviet Union to go to the United States to receive an MBA at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. The press quoted him as saying that he made this decision after \"being disappointed in myself as a physicist\". Milner was a commencement speaker for Wharton Business School 2017 class. \n\nMilner started his business career selling grey market DOS computers in the Soviet Union, which displeased his father. When the national government collapsed, he stopped selling computers to enroll at the Wharton School to earn an MBA.\n\nAfter graduating, Milner spent the first half of the 1990s at the World Bank in Washington, D.C., as a Russian banking specialist focused on the development of private sector banking. He has described his time at the World Bank as his \"lost years\", due to watching from afar the privatization of government holdings during the presidency of Boris Yeltsin. In the spring of 1995, Milner was appointed CEO of Alliance-Menatep, an investment brokerage company belonging to then oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky. In December 1996 Milner worked as Vice President and Head of Investment Management of Menatep Bank. In February 1997 Milner was appointed the deputy chairman and the head of the investment division of Menatep Bank but left this position in early 1998. At the time, the market makers described him as \"a well-known professional, who will bring the bank valuable experience in international financial institutions and transactions in the Russian investment market\".\n\nIn 1999, after reading a review by Morgan Stanley analyst Mary Meeker on the prospects for online businesses, Milner decided to create an internet company. He sought funding from his friend from Menatep days Gregory Finger, who at the time led the Russian branch of the US investment fund New Century Holding. The fund agreed to invest $4.5 million with the proviso that Milner and Finger each personally invest $750,000. Milner, Finger, and NCH created a new company, NetBridge. In 2000, Milner became the president of Netbridge Services Ltd (netBridge) – the company that was, \"created as an Internet incubator and investment fund\". Netbridge succeeded in transferring a variety of U.S.-pioneered internet business models to Russia, creating companies including the portal List.ru, online auction site Molotok.ru (based on eBay), free web-hosting Boom.ru (based on GeoCities), and online shop 24×7, using the formula of Amazon.com.\n\nIn February 2001, netBridge and Port.ru (which owned Mail.ru) announced a merger. Milner became CEO of the new company named Mail.ru (though the legal name Port.ru was also retained).\n\nFrom January 2003 to December 2004, Milner was the CEO of \"Neftyanoi\", owned by Igor Linshits.\n\nIn 2005, NCH shifted its focus from Russian Internet projects and Milner founded the investment fund Digital Sky Technologies (DST), becoming its chairman in 2006. A meeting through mutual friends resulted in Alisher Usmanov becoming a shareholder of Mail.ru Group in 2008.\n\nIn 2010 Mail.ru Group completed successful initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange with market valuation of $5.6 billion.\n\nIn March 2012, Milner stepped down from the role of chairman of Mail.ru and from the board of directors. Dmitry Grishin was elected to the board and appointed as chairman while retaining his CEO position. There were no other changes to management or to the board.\n\nPost Mail.ru Group’s IPO, DST is the sole vehicle for further international investments. The company is now fully independent of Mail.ru Group.\n\nFrom May 2009 to January 2012 Milner was a member of the Commission on Modernization established by Dmitry Medvedev, the Russian President from 2008 to 2012.\n\nIn January 2009, while in Palo Alto, Milner became acquainted with Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. The meeting led to an agreement on 26 May 2009 under which DST bought a 1.96% stake in Facebook for $200 million.\n\nOn 16 September 2010, Digital Sky Technologies (DST) changed its name to \"Mail.ru Group\". The group's portfolio included Mail.ru, Odnoklassniki.ru, ICQ, a minority stake in the social network VKontakte (Russian Facebook equivalent), online payments service OSMP.ru, e‑Port, as well as some other Russian assets. Milner's commercial interests in Facebook, Zynga, and Groupon were transferred to DST Global. Milner became the CEO of DST Global and the chairman of the board of directors of Mail.ru Group. In November 2010, Mail.ru Group held its offering on the London Stock Exchange. In March 2012, Milner stepped down from the role of chairman of Mail.ru and from the board of directors. Milner focused on international Internet investments.\n\nDST Global became one of the world’s leading technology investors and its portfolio has included some of the world's most prominent internet companies, such as Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, Snapchat, Airbnb, Spotify, Alibaba, and others.\n\nOn 5 November 2017, \"The New York Times\" reported that Milner had strong Kremlin backing for his investments in Facebook and Twitter. Milner denied this allegations in his open letter published in ReCode \n\nOn 29 January 2011, Milner announced that he would invest $150,000 into each of the start‑up program participants selected by the incubator Y Combinator.\n\nOn 2 August 2011, DST Global invested $800 million in Twitter.\n\nIn September 2011, DST Global together with Silver Lake launched $1.6 billion tender offer for shares in the Alibaba Group.\n\nDST Global invested $125 million in WhatsApp.\n\nIn February 2014, it was announced that Milner had led a round of funding for cloud-graphics company, Otoy.\n\nIn May 2014, Flipkart raised $210 million in a financing round Led by DST Global.\n\nIn March 2015, British online luxury fashion company Farfetch said it raised $86 million from investment firm DST Global and existing shareholders, valuing the company at $1 billion.\n\nAccording to press reports, in April 2015 OlaCabs raised $315 million from DST Global and some existing investors.\n\nIn April 2016, online mortgage broker platform Habito launched with backing from Milner, amongst other fintech investors.\n\nIn July 2012, Yuri and Julia Milner established the Breakthrough Prize, joined the following year by Sergey Brin, Priscilla Chan, Anne Wojcicki and Mark Zuckerberg. The Prize is a set of international awards recognizing three fields of endeavor: Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics, Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, and Breakthrough Prize in Mathematics. Laureates receive $3 million each in prize money, making the Breakthrough Prizes the largest scientific awards in the world. There are also New Horizons awards in physics and mathematics for younger researchers who have already produced significant work.\n\nCommittees of previous laureates choose the winners from candidates nominated in a process that is online and open to the public. , $174.8m in prize-money has been awarded to 70 individual scientists and four large research teams.\n\nThe Prizes are presented annually at a gala ceremony featuring celebrity presentations, films, comedy and live music. The last four ceremonies took place at Hangar One (Mountain View, California). The annual celebrations also includes symposiums in the three recognized fields. The program is broadcast live on the web.\n\nIn July 2015, Milner launched Breakthrough Initiatives, a scientific program to investigate the question of life in the Universe. He announced the initiatives at the Royal Society in London, alongside Stephen Hawking, Martin Rees, Frank Drake, Geoff Marcy and Ann Druyan.\n\nThree initiatives have been announced so far:\n\n\nThe first, Breakthrough Listen, will invest $100 million over 10 years in a search for evidence of civilizations beyond Earth. Utilizing the Green Bank, Parkes, Lick, and FAST observatories, Listen is searching for radio and laser signals from the nearest million stars, the nearest 100 galaxies, and the plane and center of the Milky Way. The initiative will also use the SETI@home distributed computing project.\n\nThe second initiative, Breakthrough Message, will be a $1 million annual prize for digital messages representing Earth and humanity, that could be decoded by another civilization. The messages will not be sent into space until a global discussion on the ethics of such a move has taken place.\n\nThe third project, Breakthrough Starshot, was announced 12 April 2016. Starshot is a US$100 million program to develop a proof-of-concept light sail spacecraft fleet capable of making the journey to Alpha Centauri at 20% the speed of light (60 million m/s or 215 million km/h) taking about 20 years to get there, and about 4 years to notify Earth of a successful arrival.\n\nOn 20 April 2017, the Breakthrough Discuss conference was held, during which the results of a year worth of data analysis was discussed. According to the researchers, 692 stars were analyzed.\n\nIn September 2015, the Breakthrough Prize launched the Breakthrough Junior Challenge, a science competition for people between thirteen and eighteen years of age, in collaboration with Khan Academy.\n\nMilner believes that the internet will develop into a \"global brain\"—which is often described as an intelligent network of individuals and machines—functioning as a nervous system for the planet Earth. He also envisages that the advent of the internet of things and ever increasing use of social media will increase humans' collective intelligence.\n\nIn an interview with \"Vedomosti\" in 2010, Milner said:\nIn the past few years I simply do not have time for hobbies. I am even starting to forget what I was fond of. Such as in the past it was reading of literature not related to work.\n\nMilner is married to former high fashion model and contemporary artist Julia Milner (\"née\" Bochkova). She is interested in photography: during the 52nd Venice Biennale of Contemporary Art she produced a contribution entitled \"Click I Hope\".\n\nIn 2011, Milner bought a $100 million home in Los Altos Hills. The compound spans three plots totaling seven hectares and includes a roughly main house and a guest house. The current tax bill is about $304,000 a year. \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported the price as $100 million, saying it was the most ever paid for a single-family home in the United States. The property is appraised by the Santa Clara County assessor at $50 million. Milner lives in Silicon Valley with his family. Milner attends synagogue, but says that he is only minimally religiously observant.\n\n\n"}
