{"id": "53251063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53251063", "title": "Access to public information in the Republic of Macedonia", "text": "Access to public information in the Republic of Macedonia\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nAccess to public information is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Macedonia (Article 16). To implement this constitutional right, the Parliament of the Republic of Macedonia in January 2006 adopted the Law on Free Access to Public Information defining the procedures for exercising this right. The Law has been significantly amended at the beginning of 2010. According to a research carried out by the Centre for Law and Democracy, Macedonia is in the high 14th place on the world ranking list of states having the most functional law on free access to public information, despite the fact that this right has been introduced into Macedonian legal system in a relatively recent period. However, according to the European Commission, the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Public Information remains ineffective.\n\nThe Law on Free Access to Information stresses the obligation of the institutions to provide information with precise deadlines: it allows individuals and legal entities to exercise their right of access to public information and obliges the holders of information to provide information to the public.\n\nThe public authorities subject to the law are governmental institutions and other bodies and institutions set by law, municipal bodies, public institutions and services, public enterprises and natural persons and legal entities performing a public service. In general, all information available to the public authorities holding the information is public. Access to them may be refused in exceptional cases determined by law.\n\nThe holders of information are obliged to keep records and to update the list of information in their disposal and to publish them in a manner available to the public. Also, they are obliged to provide premises for inspection of the requested information.\n\nAll institutions subject to the law are required to appoint officials for handling access to information requests. They are the reference point for the citizens willing to exercise their right to access public information. The holder of the information is obliged to inform the public on the official person responsible for mediating information. The appointed person for mediating information shall provide the necessary information, help the applicant and keep special records for receipt of the applications for information.\n\nApplicants can submit the requests in writing or orally. Reviewing the documents at the institution's building is free of charge. Costs of photocopying, transcribing, translating or delivering the documents can be charged to the applicant. A decision on the request should be made within 30 days. Access to information can be refused if it threatens national or public security; the economy; the environment; commercial or private legitimate interests; monetary and exchange policies; or if interferes with the prevention of criminal offences.\n\nThe Commission for Protection of the Right to Free Access to Public Information (KOMSPI) is in charge for providing information to the citizens regarding access to information, monitoring the implementation of the law and delivering regular annual reports on the application of the Law to the Parliament. Also, the Commission conducts seminars and trainings aiming at educating public officials in their duties to implement the access to public information law. According to the 2015 European Commission Progress Report 2015 the Commission does not have sufficient capacity to monitor compliance with proactive disclosure of information, and has not the power to impose sanctions to better enforce the legislation.\n\nThe applicant has the right to appeal against a refusal. The first complaint is to the Commission for Protection of the Right to Free Access to Public Information; in case the applicant is not satisfied with the decision, he/she can launch a judicial review.\n\nDespite the good legal framework, the implementation of the Law on Free Access to Public Information remains ineffective. Penalties are not imposed for failure to comply. Political parties are excluded from the list of holders of information, thus they are outside the scope of the law.\n\nAccording to journalists, there is a tendency by public authorities to over-use the \"classification\" of documents to prevent public access to information. According to Freedom House, the law is unevenly and selectively enforced, with official denying responses and shunning independent or critical media outlets.\n\nTo monitor and test the implementation of the law, in 2012 the Macedonian Young Lawyers Association (MYLA) submitted 145 requests for free access to information of public interest to a number of state institutions. More than two thirds of the information holders responded within the legal time limit and delivered the requested information. However, some problems of implementation and difficulties emerged, such as the practice of redirecting the requests towards other state institutions, instead of delivering it.\n\nAccording to a survey conducted in 2013 by the Foundation Open Society - Macedonia, a significant share of Macedonian citizens does not believe they are entitled to have the right of access to public information and request informations of public interest. According to the survey, more than half of citizens had never heard and were unaware of the Law on Free Access to Public Information; only 13% of them were well knowledgeable about the Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "5481056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5481056", "title": "Analogical modeling", "text": "Analogical modeling\n\nAnalogical modeling (AM) is a formal theory of exemplar based analogical reasoning, proposed by Royal Skousen, professor of Linguistics and English language at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah. It is applicable to language modeling and other categorization tasks. Analogical modeling is related to connectionism and nearest neighbor approaches, in that it is data-based rather than abstraction-based; but it is distinguished by its ability to cope with imperfect datasets (such as caused by simulated short term memory limits) and to base predictions on all relevant segments of the dataset, whether near or far. In language modeling, AM has successfully predicted empirically valid forms for which no theoretical explanation was known (see the discussion of Finnish morphology in Skousen et al. 2002). \n\nAn exemplar-based model consists of a general-purpose modeling engine and a problem-specific dataset. Within the dataset, each exemplar (a case to be reasoned from, or an informative past experience) appears as a feature vector: a row of values for the set of parameters that define the problem. For example, in a spelling-to-sound task, the feature vector might consist of the letters of a word. Each exemplar in the dataset is stored with an outcome, such as a phoneme or phone to be generated. When the model is presented with a novel situation (in the form of an outcome-less feature vector), the engine algorithmically sorts the dataset to find exemplars that helpfully resemble it, and selects one, whose outcome is the model's prediction. The particulars of the algorithm distinguish one exemplar-based modeling system from another.\n\nIn AM, we think of the feature values as characterizing a context, and the outcome as a behavior that occurs within that context. Accordingly, the novel situation is known as the \"given context.\" Given the known features of the context, the AM engine systematically generates all contexts that include it (all of its \"supracontexts\"), and extracts from the dataset the exemplars that belong to each. The engine then discards those supracontexts whose outcomes are inconsistent (this measure of consistency will be discussed further below), leaving an \"analogical set\" of supracontexts, and probabilistically selects an exemplar from the analogical set with a bias toward those in large supracontexts. This multilevel search exponentially magnifies the likelihood of a behavior's being predicted as it occurs reliably in settings that specifically resemble the given context.\n\nAM performs the same process for each case it is asked to evaluate. The given context, consisting of n variables, is used as a template to generate formula_1 supracontexts. Each supracontext is a set of exemplars in which one or more variables have the same values that they do in the given context, and the other variables are ignored. In effect, each is a view of the data, created by filtering for some criteria of similarity to the given context, and the total set of supracontexts exhausts all such views. Alternatively, each supracontext is a theory of the task or a proposed rule whose predictive power needs to be evaluated.\n\nIt is important to note that the supracontexts are not equal peers one with another; they are arranged by their distance from the given context, forming a hierarchy. If a supracontext specifies all of the variables that another one does and more, it is a subcontext of that other one, and it lies closer to the given context. (The hierarchy is not strictly branching; each supracontext can itself be a subcontext of several others, and can have several subcontexts.) This hierarchy becomes significant in the next step of the algorithm.\n\nThe engine now chooses the analogical set from among the supracontexts. A supracontext may contain exemplars that only exhibit one behavior; it is deterministically homogeneous and is included. It is a view of the data that displays regularity, or a relevant theory that has never yet been disproven. A supracontext may exhibit several behaviors, but contain no exemplars that occur in any more specific supracontext (that is, in any of its subcontexts); in this case it is non-deterministically homogeneous and is included. Here there is no great evidence that a systematic behavior occurs, but also no counterargument. Finally, a supracontext may be heterogeneous, meaning that it exhibits behaviors that are found in a subcontext (closer to the given context), and also behaviors that are not. Where the ambiguous behavior of the nondeterministically homogeneous supracontext was accepted, this is rejected because the intervening subcontext demonstrates that there is a better theory to be found. The heterogeneous supracontext is therefore excluded. This guarantees that we see an increase in meaningfully consistent behavior in the analogical set as we approach the given context.\n\nWith the analogical set chosen, each appearance of an exemplar (for a given exemplar may appear in several of the analogical supracontexts) is given a pointer to every other appearance of an exemplar within its supracontexts. One of these pointers is then selected at random and followed, and the exemplar to which it points provides the outcome. This gives each supracontext an importance proportional to the square of its size, and makes each exemplar likely to be selected in direct proportion to the sum of the sizes of all analogically consistent supracontexts in which it appears. Then, of course, the probability of predicting a particular outcome is proportional to the summed probabilities of all the exemplars that support it.\n\nGiven a context with formula_2 elements:\n\nThis terminology is best understood through an example. In the example used in the second chapter of Skousen (1989), each context consists of three variables with potential values 0-3\n\nThe two outcomes for the dataset are \"e\" and \"r\", and the exemplars are:\n\nWe define a network of pointers like so:\n\nThe solid lines represent pointers between exemplars with matching outcomes; the dotted lines represent pointers between exemplars with non-matching outcomes.\n\nThe statistics for this example are as follows:\n\nBehavior can only be predicted for a given context; in this example, let us predict the outcome for the context \"3 1 2\". To do this, we first find all of the contexts containing the given context; these contexts are called supracontexts. We find the supracontexts by systematically eliminating the variables in the given context; with \"m\" variables, there will generally be formula_19 supracontexts. The following table lists each of the sub- and supracontexts; means \"not x\", and \"-\" means \"anything\".\nThese contexts are shown in the venn diagram below:\n\nThe next step is to determine which exemplars belong to which contexts in order to determine which of the contexts are homogeneous. The table below shows each of the subcontexts, their behavior in terms of the given exemplars, and the number of disagreements within the behavior:\n\nAnalyzing the subcontexts in the table above, we see that there is only 1 subcontext with any disagreements: \"3 1 \", which in the dataset consists of \"3 1 0 e\" and \"3 1 1 r\". There are 2 disagreements in this subcontext; 1 pointing from each of the exemplars to the other (see the pointer network pictured above). Therefore, only supracontexts containing this subcontext will contain any disagreements. We use a simple rule to identify the homogeneous supracontexts:\nIf the number if disagreements in the supracontext is greater than the number of disagreements in the contained subcontext, we say that it is heterogeneous; otherwise, it is homogeneous.\nThere are 3 situations that produce a homogeneous supracontext:\n\nThe only two heterogeneous supracontexts are \"- 1 -\" and \"- - -\". In both of them, it is the combination of the non-deterministic \"3 1 \" with other subcontexts containing the \"r\" outcome which causes the heterogeneity.\n\nThere is actually a 4th type of homogeneous supracontext: it contains more than one non-empty subcontext and it is non-deterministic, but the frequency of outcomes in each sub-context is exactly the same. Analogical modeling does not consider this situation, however, for 2 reasons:\n\nNext we construct the analogical set, which consists of all of the pointers and outcomes from the homogeneous supracontexts.\nThe figure below shows the pointer network with the homogeneous contexts highlighted.\n\nThe pointers are summarized in the following table:\n4 of the pointers in the analogical set are associated with the outcome \"e\", and the other 9 are associated with \"r\". In AM, a pointer is randomly selected and the outcome it points to is predicted. With a total of 13 pointers, the probability of the outcome \"e\" being predicted is 4/13 or 30.8%, and for outcome \"r\" it is 9/13 or 69.2%. We can create a more detailed account by listing the pointers for each of the occurrences in the homogeneous supracontexts:\n\nWe can then see the \"analogical effect\" of each of the instances in the data set.\n\nAnalogy has been considered useful in describing language at least since the time of Saussure. Noam Chomsky and others have more recently criticized analogy as too vague to really be useful (Bańko 1991), an appeal to a \"deus ex machina.\" Skousen's proposal appears to address that criticism by proposing an explicit mechanism for analogy, which can be tested for psychological validity.\n\nAnalogical modeling has been employed in experiments ranging from phonology and morphology (linguistics) to orthography and syntax.\n\nThough analogical modeling aims to create a model free from rules seen as contrived by linguists, in its current form it still requires researchers to select which variables to take into consideration. This is necessary because of the so-called \"exponential explosion\" of processing power requirements of the computer software used to implement analogical modeling. Recent research suggests that quantum computing could provide the solution to such performance bottlenecks (Skousen et al. 2002, see pp 45–47).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19194269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194269", "title": "Anti-prostitution pledge", "text": "Anti-prostitution pledge\n\nThe Federal government of the United States requires non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that receive federal anti-HIV/AIDS or anti-trafficking funds to adopt an organization-wide policy opposing prostitution and sex-trafficking. This requirement, known as the anti-prostitution pledge, has been in place since 2003.\n\nThe policy has been criticized as counterproductive, as it hampers enlisting those involved in the sex industry in the fight against AIDS.\n\nInitially the requirement was only applied to foreign-based NGOs, but in 2005 the Bush administration began applying it to U.S.-based organizations as well, resulting in legal challenges on First Amendment grounds. These challenges were ultimately successful before the Supreme Court, with the 2013 decision in the case \"Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International\". The requirement remains in effect for foreign-based NGOs that receive U.S. funds.\n\nU.S. President George W. Bush announced the five-year $15 billion President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief in January 2003; Congress passed it in May 2003 under the name \"United States Leadership against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act (Global AIDS Act)\". The act identifies prostitution and sex trafficking as contributing to the spread of HIV and explicitly advances a new U.S. policy goal: the eradication of prostitution.\nThe act states:\n\nIn December 2003 Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act which provided for funding of anti-trafficking activities, subject to the following restrictions.\n\nThe anti-prostitution pledge language in both acts was authored by Representative Chris Smith, Republican from New Jersey.\n\nThe Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004 amended the AIDS Authorization to exempt the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the World Health Organization, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative and any United Nations agency from having to sign the anti-prostitution pledge.\n\nWhile the language of the legislation does not distinguish between foreign and U.S.-based organizations, the pledge was initially only enforced for the former, as the Justice Department had expressed First Amendment concerns. In September 2004, a letter from Assistant Attorney General Daniel Levin reversed this opinion, and the U.S. Agency for International Development issued a directive in June 2005 that expanded the pledge requirement to all NGOs.\n\nA document issued by the CDC in May 2005 sought to extend the pledge requirement to the large group of organizations that receive funding through the multilateral Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (to which the U.S. contributes). This was quickly overturned by US Director of Foreign Assistance Randall L. Tobias.\n\nIn a February 2002 National Security Presidential Directive, President George W. Bush wrote: \"The United States opposes prostitution and any related activities, including pimping, pandering, and/or maintaining brothels as contributing to the phenomenon\nof trafficking in persons. These activities are inherently harmful and dehumanizing. The United States Government's position is that these activities should not be regulated as a legitimate form of work for any human being.\"\n\nIn February 2005, a group of non-profit organizations including CARE, the International Rescue Committee, Save the Children and the International Center for Research on Women protested the anti-prostitution pledge policy in a letter to US Director of Foreign Assistance Randall L. Tobias. This was followed by a May 2005 protest letter to President Bush, signed by hundreds of organizations worldwide, stating that the pledge \"makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to establish the trust necessary to provide services to these hard-to-reach groups\" and it will \"exacerbate stigma and discrimination against already marginalized groups.\"\n\nThis was countered in August 2005 by a letter to the President supporting the policy, signed by over 100 groups, including the Christian Medical Association, Concerned Women for America, Family Research Council, Focus on the Family, National Association of Evangelicals, Southern Baptist Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, Sex Industry Survivors, The Medical Institute, The Salvation Army, World Hope International and World Relief. Supporters of the pledge requirement argued that prostitution is inherently harmful and needs to be abolished, rejected harm reduction approaches, and held that legalized prostitution increases demand for sex trafficking.\n\nIn May 2005, the Brazilian government turned down $40 million in anti-HIV/AIDS funding from the U.S. government because of the anti-prostitution pledge. Brazil's AIDS commissioner Pedro Chequer was quoted as saying \"Sex workers are part of implementing our AIDS policy and deciding how to promote it. They are our partners. How could we ask prostitutes to take a position against themselves?\"\n\nThe anti-prostitution pledge has been criticized as counterproductive, because projects that work with and support prostitutes are often seen as instrumental in fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS. The Brazilian anti-AIDS program, which employs prostitutes to hand out information and free condoms, is considered by the United Nations to be the most successful in the developing world. The Sonagachi Project is a prostitutes' cooperative in Calcutta, India, that supports sex workers' rights and works to stop the spread of HIV; it has received strong positive evaluations from both UNAIDS and the World Bank, and has been cited by UNAIDS as a \"best-practice\" model of working with prostitutes.\n\nRonald Weitzer has described the anti-prostitution pledge as a symptom of what he calls the \"moral crusade\" against sex trafficking, resulting in a broad attack against all forms of commercial sex acts. The language of the policy juxtaposes the words \"prostitution\" and \"sex trafficking\"; it has been pointed out that it is important to clearly distinguish between these two concepts, and that all relevant organizations already strongly oppose sex trafficking.\n\nRandall L. Tobias, the U.S. administration's foreign aid chief who was responsible for implementation of the anti-prostitution pledge, resigned in April 2007 over allegations that he had used an escort service. Some sex worker organizations and commentators called the situation \"ironic\" and Tobias \"hypocritical\".\n\nThe 2012 final report of UNDP's Global Commission on HIV and the Law denounced the anti-prostitution pledge and included the recommendation\nIn response to the 2005 decision to apply the policy also to U.S.-based organizations, two lawsuits were filed, alleging that the policy compels or prohibits speech in violation of the First Amendment, and also prohibits actions that are exclusively privately funded.\n\nIn the first case (\"DKT v. USAID\"), the non-profit DKT International prevailed in District Court but lost on appeal, at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit. The February 2007 appeals court ruling was based on the assumption that the government would allow speech regarding prostitution as long as it is done through an affiliate that doesn't receive federal funding.\n\nThe second case (\"AOSI v. USAID\") involved the plaintiffs Alliance for Open Society International, its affiliate the Open Society Institute, and Pathfinder International. In May 2006, a District Court in New York issued a preliminary injunction, preventing the government from requiring these organizations to sign the anti-prostitution pledge. The government appealed this injunction to the Second Circuit Court. During the oral arguments in the case, the government stated that it would allow legally and physically separate affiliates to engage in the prohibited speech. The government issued guidelines to this effect in July 2007. In November 2007, the Appeals Court rebuffed the government and let the preliminary injunction stand, returning the case to the District Court. Global Health Council and InterAction joined the case, and the District Court extended the injunction to all U.S.-based members of these organizations in August 2008. The Appeals Court, in a 2-1 decision in July 2011, affirmed the injunction and held that the anti-prostitution policy requirement \"likely violates the First Amendment.\"\n\nIn September 2012, the Brennan Center for Justice obtained a ruling forcing the Department of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel to hand over the original February 2004 memorandum which had argued that the pledge, as applied to U.S.-based organizations, was unconstitutional.\n\nIn a 6-2 decision, the Supreme Court ruled in 2013 that the anti-prostitution pledge violated the First Amendment: the government may not leverage funding to regulate grant recipient's speech outside of the funded program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1133033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1133033", "title": "Bengali language movement", "text": "Bengali language movement\n\nThe Bengali Language Movement ( \"Bhasha Andolôn\") was a political movement in former East Bengal (currently Bangladesh) advocating the recognition of the Bengali language as an official language of the then-Dominion of Pakistan in order to allow its use in government affairs, the continuation of its use as a medium of education, its use in media, currency and stamps, and to maintain its writing in the Bengali script.\n\nWhen the Dominion of Pakistan was formed by the partition of India in 1947, it was composed of various ethnic and linguistic groups, with the geographically non-contiguous East Bengal province (that was renamed in 1956 as East Pakistan) having a mainly Bengali population. In 1948, the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan ordained Urdu as the sole national language, sparking extensive protests among the Bengali-speaking majority of East Bengal. Facing rising sectarian tensions and mass discontent with the new law, the government outlawed public meetings and rallies. The students of the University of Dhaka and other political activists defied the law and organised a protest on 21 February 1952. The movement reached its climax when police killed student demonstrators on that day. The deaths provoked widespread civil unrest. After years of conflict, the central government relented and granted official status to the Bengali language in 1956.\n\nThe Language Movement catalysed the assertion of Bengali national identity in East Bengal and later East Pakistan, and became a forerunner to Bengali nationalist movements, including the 6-Point Movement and subsequently the Bangladesh Liberation War and Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. In Bangladesh, 21 February (\"Ekushey February\") is observed as Language Movement Day, a national holiday. The Shaheed Minar monument was constructed near Dhaka Medical College in memory of the movement and its victims. In 1999, UNESCO declared 21 February as International Mother Language Day, in tribute to the Language Movement and the ethno-linguistic rights of people around the world.\n\nThe current nations, Pakistan and Bangladesh, were part of an undivided India during the British colonial rule. From the mid-19th century, the Urdu language had been promoted as the \"lingua franca\" of Indian Muslims by political and religious leaders, such as Sir Khwaja Salimullah, Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Nawab Viqar-ul-Mulk and Maulvi Abdul Haq. Urdu is an Indo-Aryan language of the Indo-Iranian branch, belonging to the Indo-European family of languages. It developed under Persian, Arabic and Turkic influence on apabhramshas (last linguistic stage of the medieval Indian Aryan language Pali-Prakrit) in South Asia during the Delhi Sultanate and Mughal Empire. With its Perso-Arabic script, the language was considered a vital element of the Islamic culture for Indian Muslims; Hindi and the Devanagari script were seen as fundamentals of Hindu culture.\n\nWhile the use of Urdu grew common with Muslims in northern India, the Muslims of Bengal (a province in the eastern part of British Indian sub-continent) primarily used the Bengali language. Bengali is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language that arose from the eastern Middle Indic languages around 1000 CE and developed considerably during the Bengal Renaissance. As early as the late 19th century, social activists such as the Muslim feminist Roquia Sakhawat Hussain were choosing to write in Bengali to reach out to the people and develop it as a modern literary language. Supporters of Bengali opposed Urdu even before the partition of India, when delegates from Bengal rejected the idea of making Urdu the lingua franca of Muslim India in the 1937 Lucknow session of the Muslim League. The Muslim League was a British Indian political party that became the driving force behind the creation of Pakistan as a Muslim state separate from British India.\n\nAfter the partition of India in 1947, Bengali-speaking people in East Bengal, the non-contiguous eastern part of the Dominion of Pakistan, made up 44 million of the newly formed Dominion of Pakistan's 69 million people. The Dominion of Pakistan's government, civil services, and military, however, were dominated by personnel from the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan. In 1947, a key resolution at a national education summit in Karachi advocated Urdu as the sole state language, and its exclusive use in the media and in schools. Opposition and protests immediately arose. Students from Dhaka rallied under the leadership of Abul Kashem, the secretary of Tamaddun Majlish, a Bengali Islamic cultural organisation. The meeting stipulated Bengali as an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan and as a medium of education in East Bengal. However, the Pakistan Public Service Commission removed Bengali from the list of approved subjects, as well as from currency notes and stamps. The central education minister Fazlur Rahman made extensive preparations to make Urdu the only state language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Public outrage spread, and many Bengali students met on the University of Dhaka campus on 8 December 1947 to formally demand that Bengali be made an official language. To promote their cause, Bengali students organised processions and rallies in Dhaka.\n\nLeading Bengali scholars argued why Urdu should not be the only state language. The writer Abul Mansur Ahmed said if Urdu became the state language, the educated society of East Bengal would become 'illiterate' and 'ineligible' for government positions. The first Rastrabhasa Sangram Parishad (National Language Action Committee), an organisation in favour of Bengali as a state language was formed towards the end of December 1947. Professor Nurul Huq Bhuiyan of the Tamaddun Majlish convened the committee. Later, Parliament member Shamsul Huq convened a new committee to push for Bengali as a state language. Assembly member Dhirendranath Datta proposed legislation in the Constituent Assembly of Pakistan to allow members to speak in Bengali and authorise its use for official purposes. Datta's proposal was supported by legislators Prem Hari Burman, Bhupendra Kumar Datta and Sris Chandra Chattaopadhyaya of East Bengal, as well as the people from the region. Prime minister Liaquat Ali Khan and the Muslim League denounced the proposal as an attempt to divide the Pakistani people, thus the legislation was defeated.\n\nStudents of the University of Dhaka and other colleges of the city organised a general strike on 11 March 1948 to protest the omission of Bengali language from official use, including coins, stamps and recruitment tests for the navy. The movement restated the demand that Bengali be declared an official language of the Dominion of Pakistan. Political leaders such as Shamsul Huq, Shawkat Ali, M Sirajul Islam, Kazi Golam Mahboob, Oli Ahad, Abdul Wahed and others were arrested during the rallies. Rally leader Mohammad Toaha was hospitalised after attempting to snatch a rifle from a police officer. Student leaders, including Abdul Matin and Abdul Malek Ukil took part in the procession.\n\nIn the afternoon of 11 March, a meeting was held to protest police brutality and arrests. A group of students marching towards the chief minister Khawaja Nazimuddin's house was stopped in front of the Dhaka High Court. The rally changed its direction and moved in the direction of the Secretariat building. Police attacked the procession injuring several students and leaders, including A. K. Fazlul Huq. Continuing strikes were observed the following four days. Under such circumstances, the chief minister Nazimuddin signed an accord with the student leaders agreeing to some terms and conditions, without complying to the demand that Bengali be made a state language.\n\nIn the height of civic unrest, Governor-General of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah arrived in Dhaka on 19 March 1948. On 21 March, at a civic reception at Racecourse Ground, he claimed that the language issue was designed by a \"fifth column\" to divide Pakistani Muslims. Jinnah further declared that \"Urdu, and only Urdu\" embodied the spirit of Muslim nations and would remain as the state language, labelling those who disagreed with his views as \"Enemies of Pakistan\". Jinnah delivered a similar speech at Curzon Hall of the University of Dhaka on 24 March. At both meetings, Jinnah was interrupted by large segments of the audience. He later called a meeting of a state language committee of action, and overruled the contract that was signed by Khawaja Nazimuddin with the student leaders. Before Jinnah left Dhaka on 28 March, he delivered a speech on radio reasserting his \"Urdu-only\" policy.\n\nShortly thereafter, the East Bengal Language Committee, presided by Maulana Akram Khan, was formed by the East Bengal government to prepare a report on the language problem. The Committee completed its report on 6 December 1950, but it was not published until 1958. The government suggested that Bengali be written in Arabic script, as a potential solution to the language conflict.\n\nThe Urdu-Bengali controversy was reignited when Jinnah's successor, governor-general Khawaja Nazimuddin, staunchly defended the \"Urdu-only\" policy in a speech on 27 January 1952. On 31 January, the \"Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod\" (All-Party Central Language Action Committee) was formed in a meeting at the Bar Library Hall of the University of Dhaka, chaired by Maulana Bhashani. The central government's proposal of writing the Bengali language in Arabic script was vehemently opposed at the meeting. The action committee called for an all out protest on 21 February, including strikes and rallies. In an attempt to prevent the demonstration, the government imposed Section 144 in Dhaka, thereby banning any gathering.\n\nAt nine o'clock in the morning, students began gathering on the University of Dhaka premises in defiance of Section 144. The university vice-chancellor and other officials were present as armed police surrounded the campus. By a quarter past eleven, students gathered at the university gate and attempted to break the police line. Police fired tear gas shells towards the gate to warn the students. A section of students ran into the Dhaka Medical College while others rallied towards the university premises cordoned by the police. The vice-chancellor asked police to stop firing and ordered the students to leave the area. However, the police arrested several students for violating section 144 as they attempted to leave. Enraged by the arrests, the students met around the East Bengal Legislative Assembly and blocked the legislators' way, asking them to present their insistence at the assembly. When a group of students sought to storm into the building, police opened fire and killed a number of students, including Abdus Salam, Rafiq Uddin Ahmed, Abul Barkat and Abdul Jabbar. As the news of the killings spread, disorder erupted across the city. Shops, offices and public transport were shut down and a general strike began. At the assembly, six legislators including Manoranjan Dhar, Boshontokumar Das, Shamsuddin Ahmed and Dhirendranath Datta requested that chief minister Nurul Amin visit wounded students in hospital and that the assembly be adjourned as a sign of mourning. This motion was supported by some treasury bench members including Maulana Abdur Rashid Tarkabagish, Shorfuddin Ahmed, Shamsuddin Ahmed Khondokar and Mosihuddin Ahmed. However, Nurul Amin refused the requests.\n\nDisorder spread across the province as large processions ignored section 144 and condemned the actions of the police. More than 30,000 people congregated at Curzon Hall in Dhaka. During the continued protests, police actions led to the death of four more people. This prompted officers and clerks from different organisations, including colleges, banks and the radio station, to boycott offices and join the procession. Protesters burned the offices of two leading pro-government news agencies, the \"Jubilee Press\" and the \"Morning News\". Police fired on a major \"janaza\", or mourning rally, as it was passing through Nawabpur Road. The shooting killed several people including activist Sofiur Rahman and a nine-year-old boy named Ohiullah.\n\nThrough the night of 23 February, students of Dhaka Medical College worked on the construction of a \"Shaheed Smritistombho\", or Monument of Martyrs. Completed at dawn on 24 February, the monument had a handwritten note attached to it with the words \"Shaheed Smritistombho\". Inaugurated by the father of the slain activist Sofiur Rahman, the monument was destroyed on 26 February by police. On 25 February, industrial workers in the town of Narayanganj observed a general strike. A protest followed on 29 February whose participants faced severe police beating.\n\nThe government censored news reports and withheld exact casualty figures during the protests. Most pro-government media held Hindus and communists responsible for encouraging the disorder and student unrest. The families of Abul Barkat and Rafiq Uddin Ahmed tried to charge the police with murder, but the charges were dismissed by the police. On 8 April government report on the incidents failed to show any particular justification for police firings on the students. When the constituent assembly reconvened on 14 April, proceedings were stalled by members of the Muslim League when legislators from East Bengal sought to raise the language issue.\n\nAlthough the Language Movement is considered to have laid the foundations for ethnic nationalism in many of the Bengalis of East Bengal and later East Pakistan, it also heightened the cultural animosity between the authorities of the two wings of Pakistan. In the western wing of the Dominion of Pakistan, the movement was seen as a sectional uprising against Pakistani national interests. The rejection of the \"Urdu-only\" policy was seen as a contravention of the Perso-Arabic culture of Muslims and the founding ideology of Pakistan, the two-nation theory. Some of the most powerful politicians from the western wing of Pakistan considered Urdu a product of Indian Islamic culture, but saw Bengali as a part of \"Hinduized\" Bengali culture. Most stood by the \"Urdu only\" policy because they believed that only a single language, one that was not indigenous to Pakistan, should serve as the national language. This kind of thinking also provoked considerable opposition in the western wing, wherein there existed several linguistic groups. As late as in 1967, military dictator Ayub Khan said, \"East Bengal is ... still under considerable Hindu culture and influence.\"\n\nThe \"Shorbodolio Kendrio Rashtrobhasha Kormi Porishod\", with support from the Awami Muslim League, decided to commemorate 21 February as \"Shohid Dibosh\" . On the first anniversary of the protests, people across East Bengal wore black badges in solidarity with the victims. Most offices, banks and educational institutions were closed to observe the occasion. Student groups made agreements with college and police officials to preserve law and order. More than 100,000 people assembled at a public meeting held in Dhaka, where community leaders called for the immediate release of Maulana Bhashani and other political prisoners. However, West Pakistani politicians such as Fazlur Rahman aggravated sectional tensions by declaring that anyone who wanted Bengali to become an official language would be considered an \"enemy of the state\". Bengali students and civilians disobeyed the restrictions to celebrate the anniversary of the protests. Demonstrations broke out on the night of 21 February 1954 with various halls of the University of Dhaka raising black flags in mourning.\n\nPolitical tensions came to a head as elections to the provincial assembly of East Bengal were held in 1954. The ruling Muslim League denounced the opposition United Front coalition, which—led by A. K. Fazlul Huq and the Awami League—wanted greater provincial autonomy. Several United Front leaders and activists were arrested. A meeting of parliament's Muslim League members, chaired by prime minister Muhammad Ali Bogra, resolved to give official recognition to Bengali. This decision was followed by a major wave of unrest as other ethnic groups sought recognition of other regional languages. Proponents of Urdu such as Maulvi Abdul Haq condemned any proposal to grant official status to Bengali. He led a rally of 100,000 people to protest against the Muslim League's decision. Consequently, the implementation failed and the United Front won a vast majority of seats in the legislative assembly, while the representation of the Muslim League was reduced to a historic low.\n\nThe United Front ministry ordered the creation of the Bangla Academy to promote, develop, and preserve Bengali language, literature, and heritage. However, the United Front rule was temporary, as Governor General Ghulam Muhammad cancelled the government and started Governor's rule on 30 May 1954. The United Front again formed the ministry on 6 June 1955 after the governor's regime ended. The Awami League did not participate in this ministry though.\n\nFollowing the return of the United Front to power, the anniversary on 21 February 1956 was observed for the first time in a peaceful atmosphere. The Government supported a major project to construct a new Shaheed Minar. The session of the constituent assembly was stopped for five minutes to express condolence for the students slain in the police shootings. Major rallies were organised by Bengali leaders and all public offices and businesses remained closed.\n\nOn 7 May 1954, the constituent assembly resolved, with the Muslim League's support, to grant official status to Bengali. Bengali was recognised as the second official language of Pakistan on 29 February 1956, and article 214(1) of the constitution of Pakistan was reworded to \"The state language of Pakistan shall be Urdu and Bengali.\"\n\nHowever, the military government formed by Ayub Khan made attempts to re-establish Urdu as the sole national language. On 6 January 1959, the military regime issued an official statement and reinstated the official stance of supporting the 1956 constitution's policy of two state languages.\n\nOutside East Bengal, movement for equal status of Bengali also took place in the Indian state of Assam. On 19 May 1961, 11 Bengalis were killed in police firing in Silchar Railway Station, Assam, while demanding state recognition of Bengali language. Subsequently, Bengali was given co-official status in the three Bengali-majority districts of Assam.\n\nAlthough the question of official languages was settled by 1956, the military regime of Ayub Khan promoted the interests of West Pakistan at the expense of East Pakistan. Despite forming the majority of the national population, the East Pakistani population continued to be under-represented in the civil and military services, and received a minority of state funding and other government help. This was mainly due to lack of representative government in the fledgling state. Mainly due to regional economic imbalances sectional divisions grew, and support for the Bengali ethnic nationalist Awami League, which invoked the 6-point movement for greater provincial autonomy. One demand was that East Pakistan be called \"Bangladesh\" (Land/Country of Bengal), which subsequently led to the Bangladesh Liberation War.\n\nThe Language Movement had a major cultural impact on Bengali society. It has inspired the development and celebration of the Bengali language, literature and culture. 21 February, celebrated as Language Movement Day or \"Shohid Dibosh\" (Martyrs' Day), is a major national holiday in Bangladesh. A month-long event called the Ekushey Book Fair is held every year to commemorate the movement. \"Ekushey Padak\", one of the highest civilian awards in Bangladesh, is awarded annually in memory of the sacrifices of the movement. Songs such as Abdul Gaffar Choudhury's \"Ekusher Gaan\", set to music by Shaheed Altaf Mahmud, as well as plays, works of art and poetry played a considerable role in rousing the people's emotions during the movement. Since the events of February 1952, poems, songs, novels, plays, films, cartoons and paintings were created to capture the movement from varied point of views. Notable artistic depictions include the poems \"Bornomala, Amar Dukhini Bornomala\" and \"February 1969\" by Shamsur Rahman, the film \"Jibon Theke Neya\" by Zahir Raihan, the stage play \"Kobor\" by Munier Chowdhury and the novels \"Ekushey February\" by Raihan and \"Artonaad\" by Shawkat Osman.\n\nTwo years after the first monument was destroyed by the police, a new \"Shaheed Minar\" (Monument of Martyrs) was constructed in 1954 to commemorate the protesters who lost their lives. Work on a larger monument designed by the architect Hamidur Rahman began in 1957 with the support of the United Front ministry. Hamidur Rahman's model consisted of a large complex in the yard of the Dhaka Medical College Hostel. The design included a half-circular column symbolizing a mother with her martyred sons standing at the dais in the centre of the monument. Although the imposition of martial law in 1958 interrupted the work, the monument was completed and inaugurated on 21 February 1963 by Abul Barkat's mother, Hasina Begum. Pakistani forces demolished the monument during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, but the Bangladeshi government reconstructed it in 1973. Ekushey Television, the first private terrestrial TV channel of Bangladesh was named after the Event of 21 February.\n\nThe states of West Bengal and Tripura in India also follow and celebrate the Day by paying tribute to the unsung heroes. Moreover, all the bengalees in India and abroad celebrate the Day for the sacrifice of lives just for the sake of the First language.\n\nBangladesh officially sent a proposal to UNESCO to declare 21 February as International Mother Language Day. The proposal was supported unanimously at the 30th General Conference of UNESCO held on 17 November 1999.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6863", "title": "Compression ratio", "text": "Compression ratio\n\nThe static compression ratio of an internal combustion engine or external combustion engine is a value that represents the ratio of the volume of its combustion chamber from its largest capacity to its smallest capacity. It is a fundamental specification for many common combustion engines.\n\nIn a piston engine, it is the ratio between the volume of the cylinder and combustion chamber when the piston is at the bottom of its stroke, and the volume of the combustion chamber when the piston is at the top of its stroke.\n\nFor example, a cylinder and its combustion chamber with the piston at the bottom of its stroke may contain 1000 cc of air (900 cc in the cylinder plus 100 cc in the combustion chamber). When the piston has moved up to the top of its stroke inside the cylinder, and the remaining volume inside the head or combustion chamber has been reduced to 100 cc, then the compression ratio would be proportionally described as 1000:100, or with fractional reduction, a 10:1 compression ratio.\n\nA high compression ratio is desirable because it allows an engine to extract more mechanical energy from a given mass of air-fuel mixture due to its higher thermal efficiency. This occurs because internal combustion engines are heat engines, and higher efficiency is created because higher compression ratios permit the same combustion temperature to be reached with less fuel, while giving a longer expansion cycle, creating more mechanical power output and lowering the exhaust temperature. It may be more helpful to think of it as an \"expansion ratio\", since more expansion reduces the temperature of the exhaust gases, and therefore the energy wasted to the atmosphere. Diesel engines actually have a higher peak combustion temperature than petrol engines, but the greater expansion means they reject less heat in their cooler exhaust.\n\nHigher compression ratios will however make gasoline engines subject to engine knocking (also known as detonation) if lower octane-rated fuel is used. This can reduce efficiency or damage the engine if knock sensors are not present to modify the ignition timing.\n\nOn the other hand, Diesel engines operate on the principle of compression ignition, so that a fuel which resists autoignition will cause late ignition, which will also lead to engine knock.\n\nStatic compression ratio (formula_1) is calculated by the formula\n\nWhere:\n\nformula_3 can be estimated by the cylinder volume formula\n\nWhere:\n\nBecause of the complex shape of formula_4 it is usually measured directly. This is often done by filling the cylinder with liquid and then measuring the volume of the used liquid.\n\nThe compression ratio in a gasoline (petrol)-powered engine will usually not be much higher than 10:1 due to potential engine knocking (detonation) and not lower than 6:1. Some production automotive engines built for high performance from 1955–1972, used high-octane leaded gasoline or '5 star' to allow compression ratios as high as 13.0:1.\n\nA technique used to prevent the onset of knock is the high \"swirl\" engine that forces the intake charge to adopt a fast circular rotation in the cylinder during compression that provides quicker and more complete combustion. It is possible to manufacture gasoline engines with compression ratios of over 11:1 that can use 87 (MON + RON)/2 (octane rating) fuel with the addition of variable valve timing and knock sensors to delay ignition timing. Such engines may not produce their full rated power using 87 octane gasoline under all circumstances, due to the delayed ignition timing. Direct fuel injection, which can inject fuel only at the time of fuel ignition (similar to a diesel engine), is another recent development which also allows for higher compression ratios on gasoline engines.\n\nThe compression ratio can be as high as 14:1 (2014 Ferrari 458 Speciale) in engines with a 'ping' or 'knock' sensor and an electronic control unit. In 1981, Jaguar released a cylinder head that allowed up to 14:1 compression; but settled for 12.5:1 in production cars. The cylinder head design was known as the \"May Fireball\" head; it was developed by a Swiss engineer Michael May.\n\nIn 2012, Mazda released new petrol engines under the brand name SkyActiv with a 14:1 compression ratio (U.S. models have a 13:1 compression ratio to allow for 87 AKI octane), to be used in all Mazda vehicles by 2015.\n\nIn a turbocharged or supercharged gasoline engine, the CR is customarily built at 10.5:1 or lower. This is due to the turbocharger/supercharger already having compressed the air before it enters the cylinders. Port fuel injected engines typically run lower boost than direct fuel injected engines because port fuel injection allows the air/fuel mixture to be heated together which leads to detonation. Conversely, directly injected engines can run higher boost because heated air will not detonate without a fuel being present. In this instance fuel is injected as late as 60 degrees before top dead center to avoid heating the mixture to the point of compression ignition.\n\nMotorcycle racing engines can use compression ratios as high as 14.7:1, and it is common to find motorcycles with compression ratios above 12.0:1 designed for 86 or 87 octane fuel. F1 engines come closer to 17:1, which is critical for maximizing volumetric/fuel efficiency at around 18,000 RPM.\n\nEthanol and methanol can take significantly higher compression ratios than gasoline. Racing engines burning methanol and ethanol fuel often incorporate a CR of 14.5-16:1.\n\nThe CR may be higher in engines running exclusively on LPG or CNG, due to the higher octane rating of these fuels.\n\nThere is no spark plug in an auto-ignition diesel engine; the heat of compression raises the temperature of the air in the cylinder sufficiently to ignite the diesel when this is injected into the cylinder; after the compression stroke. The CR will customarily exceed 14:1 and ratios over 22:1 are common. The appropriate compression ratio depends on the design of the cylinder head. The figure is usually between 14:1 and 23:1 for direct injection engines, and between 18:1 and 23:1 for indirect injection.And also in crdi injection.\n\nA compression ratio of 6.5 or lower is desired for operation on kerosene. The petrol-paraffin engine version of the Ferguson TE20 tractor had a compression ratio of 4.5:1 for operation on tractor vaporising oil with an octane rating between 55 and 70.\n\nMeasuring the compression pressure of an engine, with a pressure gauge connected to the spark plug opening, gives an indication of the engine's state and quality. There is, however, no formula to calculate compression ratio based on cylinder pressure.\n\nIf the nominal compression ratio of an engine is given, the pre-ignition cylinder pressure can be estimated using the following relationship:\n\nwhere formula_11 is the cylinder pressure at bottom dead center which is usually at 1 atm, formula_12 is the compression ratio, and formula_13 is the specific heat ratio for the working fluid, which is about 1.4 for air, and 1.3 for methane-air mixture.\n\nFor example, if an engine running on gasoline has a compression ratio of 10:1, the cylinder pressure at top dead center is\n\nThis figure, however, will also depend on cam (i.e. valve) timing. Generally, cylinder pressure for common automotive designs should at least equal 10 bar, or, roughly estimated in pounds per square inch (psi) as between 15 and 20 times the compression ratio, or in this case between 150 psi and 200 psi, depending on cam timing. Purpose-built racing engines, stationary engines etc. will return figures outside this range.\n\nFactors including late intake valve closure (relatively speaking for camshaft profiles outside of typical production-car range, but not necessarily into the realm of competition engines) can produce a misleadingly low figure from this test. Excessive connecting rod clearance, combined with extremely high oil pump output (rare but not impossible) can sling enough oil to coat the cylinder walls with sufficient oil to facilitate reasonable piston ring sealing. In engines with compromised ring seals, this can artificially give a misleadingly high compression figure.\n\nThis phenomenon can actually be used to some slight advantage. If a compression test does give a low figure, and it has been determined it is not due to intake valve closure/camshaft characteristics, then one can differentiate between the cause being valve/seat seal issues and ring seal by squirting engine oil into the spark plug orifice, in a quantity sufficient to disperse across the piston crown and the circumference of the top ring land, and thereby affect the mentioned seal. If a second compression test is performed shortly thereafter, and the new reading is much higher, it would be the ring seal that is problematic, whereas if the compression test pressure observed remains low, it is a valve sealing (or more rarely head gasket, or breakthrough piston or, rarer still, cylinder-wall damage) issue.\n\nIf there is a significant (greater than 10%) difference between cylinders, that may be an indication that valves or cylinder head gaskets are leaking, piston rings are worn, or that the block is cracked.\n\nIf a problem is suspected, then a more comprehensive test using a leak-down tester can locate the leak.\n\nBecause cylinder-bore diameter, piston-stroke length and combustion-chamber volume are almost always constant, the compression ratio for a given engine is almost always constant, until engine wear takes its toll.\n\nOne exception is the experimental Saab Variable Compression engine (SVC). This engine, designed by Saab Automobile, uses a technique that dynamically alters the volume of the combustion chamber (V), which, via the above equation, changes the compression ratio (CR).\n\nThe Atkinson cycle engine was one of the first attempts at variable compression. Since the compression ratio is the ratio between dynamic and static volumes of the combustion chamber, the Atkinson cycle's method of increasing the length of the power stroke compared to the intake stroke ultimately altered the compression ratio at different stages of the cycle.\n\nOn August 15, 2016 Nissan Motor Company announced a new variable compression engine that can choose an optimal compression ratio variably between 8:1 and 14:1. That lets the engine adjust moment by moment to torque demands, always maintaining top efficiency. Nissan says that the turbo-charged, 2-liter, four-cylinder VC-T engine averages 27 percent better fuel economy than the 3.5-liter V6 engine it replaces, with comparable power and torque.\n\nThe calculated compression ratio, as given above, presumes that the cylinder is sealed at the bottom of the stroke, and that the volume compressed is the actual volume.\n\nHowever: intake valve closure (sealing the cylinder) always takes place after BDC, which may cause some of the intake charge to be compressed backwards out of the cylinder by the rising piston at very low speeds; only the percentage of the stroke after intake valve closure is compressed. Intake port tuning and scavenging may allow a greater mass of charge (at a higher than atmospheric pressure) to be trapped in the cylinder than the static volume would suggest ( This \"corrected\" compression ratio is commonly called the \"dynamic compression ratio\".\n\nThis ratio is higher with more conservative (i.e., earlier, soon after BDC) intake cam timing, and lower with more radical (i.e., later, long after BDC) intake cam timing, but always lower than the static or \"nominal\" compression ratio.\n\nThe actual position of the piston can be determined by trigonometry, using the stroke length and the connecting rod length (measured between centers). The absolute cylinder pressure is the result of an exponent of the dynamic compression ratio. This exponent is a polytropic value for the ratio of variable heats for air and similar gases at the temperatures present. This compensates for the temperature rise caused by compression, as well as heat lost to the cylinder. Under ideal (adiabatic) conditions, the exponent would be 1.4, but a lower value, generally between 1.2 and 1.3 is used, since the amount of heat lost will vary among engines based on design, size and materials used, but provides useful results for purposes of comparison. For example, if the static compression ratio is 10:1, and the dynamic compression ratio is 7.5:1, a useful value for cylinder pressure would be (7.5)^1.3 × atmospheric pressure, or 13.7 bar. (× 14.7 psi at sea level = 201.8 psi. The pressure shown on a gauge would be the absolute pressure less atmospheric pressure, or 187.1 psi.)\n\nThe two corrections for dynamic compression ratio affect cylinder pressure in opposite directions, but not in equal strength. An engine with high static compression ratio and late intake valve closure will have a DCR similar to an engine with lower compression but earlier intake valve closure.\n\nAdditionally, the cylinder pressure developed when an engine is running will be higher than that shown in a compression test for several reasons.\n\n\nCompression ratio and overall pressure ratio are interrelated as follows:\nThe reason for this difference is that compression ratio is defined via the volume reduction:\nwhile pressure ratio is defined as the pressure increase:\nIn calculating the pressure ratio, we assume that an adiabatic compression is carried out (i.e. that no heat energy is supplied to the gas being compressed, and that any temperature rise is solely due to the compression). We also assume that air is a perfect gas. With these two assumptions, we can define the relationship between change of volume and change of pressure as follows:\nwhere formula_18 is the ratio of specific heats (air: approximately 1.4).\nThe values in the table above are derived using this formula. Note that in reality the ratio of specific heats changes with temperature and that significant deviations from adiabatic behavior will occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14541120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14541120", "title": "Conflict analysis", "text": "Conflict analysis\n\nConflict analysis or conflict assessment is an initial stage of conflict resolution in which parties seek to gain a deeper understanding of the dynamics in their relationship. For instance, in Darfur, conflict analysis of the Fur-Arab War in 1987 noted that: from time immemorial, seasonal fluctuations in water and grazing land had led to conflict over natural resources in Darfur.\n\nWhen there is a disagreement in the methods used to achieve an end result, and there is a disparity between a unified vision and direction, opposing sides are subject to conflict. If these sides consistently misinterpret one another, a problematic situation can spiral out of control rapidly. Conflicts are not always linear in nature. Members of multiple organizational levels with varying statuses can all partake in conflict. When undergoing analysis, it is integral to understand the reasons that spark such disagreement to effectively reach its resolution. Many schools, such as Eastern Mennonite University's Center for Justice and Peacebuilding, George Mason University, Nova Southeastern University, University of the Rockies, and Wayne State University have programs related to conflict analysis and resolution. There are also various subsets of conflict analysis such as environmental conflict analysis, which deal with specific types of disputes. In certain occasions a conflict atlas is used to show graphically the analysis of the conflict. The prefixes macro- and micro- are used in conjunctions with conflicts to denote the scale of the conflict, macro referring to a larger scale conflict and micro referring to a conflicting situation on a smaller scale. Conflicts can arise at different levels, from intrapersonal to interpersonal issues as well as between two individuals or between two countries as a whole. The outcome dictates how we refer to a given conflict. When a result is the change in the status quo, that conflict is now referred to as a revolution.\n\nCelia Cook-Hoffman defines 'Identity' as \"how individuals and collectives see and understand themselves in a conflict.\" Identity plays a vital role in a conflicting situation. How the opponent perceives their competition dictates how they will move forward with the conflict. Conversely, the opponent is also aware of how they are perceived and understands they are obligated to maintain their reputation throughout the conflict. This can give rise to defensive tactics as well as to retaliation. In this aspect, identity is not unlike reputation. Identities are a social construct, and once cemented, are almost impossible to alter.\n\nSnyder writes that women are seen as \"victims\" of war. Gender proves to be significant in the analysis of conflicts. Women are likely to be perceived as individuals who have no control of a conflict. Snyder also notes that women are \"considered legitimate targets and make up 90 percent of all casualties.\" The majority of refugees are also females. In conflicts such as war, widows are forced to become the new head of the household, assuming all the responsibilities that their husband would normally do so. Also, When contemplating a resolution of a conflict, the lack of inclusion of women from an issues inception to execution has an effect on post-conflict analysis.\n\nRothbart notes that factors that spark international conflict are \"struggles between beliefs, behaviors, and environmental conditions as they are as they should be\" Another motive that inspires conflict is the need for retribution. It is said that major conflicts can arise from underlying historical disagreements that bubble over periodically. It is also found that the aggressor's identity plays a role in causation of a conflict.\n\nIn times of war Korostelina writes that \"non-combatants suffer most\" because they are nothing but victims of any conflict. More innocent civilian blood is shed than any other conflict-related party. Korostelina also adds that civilians \"are war's survivors or its collateral damage accentuating the fact that prisoners of war are likely to be the individuals who suffer most during any conflict.\n\nBercovitch notes that there are several methods to conflict mediation. Bercovitch lists these methods as \"negotiation, inquiry, conciliation, arbitration, judicial settlements, and resorts to regional agencies and arrangements.\" \n\n\nAmsterdam Center for Conflict Studies (ACS)<br>\nCentre for International Conflict Analysis and Management (CICAM) (Nijmegen, Netherlands)\n"}
{"id": "8796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8796", "title": "Demiurge", "text": "Demiurge\n\nIn the Platonic, Neopythagorean, Middle Platonic, and Neoplatonic schools of philosophy, the demiurge () is an artisan-like figure responsible for fashioning and maintaining the physical universe. The Gnostics adopted the term \"demiurge\". Although a fashioner, the demiurge is not necessarily the same as the creator figure in the monotheistic sense, because the demiurge itself and the material from which the demiurge fashions the universe are both considered to be consequences of something else. Depending on the system, they may be considered to be either uncreated and eternal or the product of some other entity.\n\nThe word \"demiurge\" is an English word derived from \"demiurgus\", a Latinized form of the Greek or \"dēmiourgos\". It was originally a common noun meaning \"craftsman\" or \"artisan\", but gradually came to mean \"producer\", and eventually \"creator\". The philosophical usage and the proper noun derive from Plato's \"Timaeus\", written  360 BC, where the demiurge is presented as the creator of the universe. The demiurge is also described as a creator in the Platonic ( 310–90 BC) and Middle Platonic ( 90 BC – AD 300) philosophical traditions. In the various branches of the Neoplatonic school (third century onwards), the demiurge is the fashioner of the real, perceptible world after the model of the Ideas, but (in most Neoplatonic systems) is still not itself \"the One\". In the arch-dualist ideology of the various Gnostic systems, the material universe is evil, while the non-material world is good. According to some strains of Gnosticism, the demiurge is malevolent, as it is linked to the material world. In others, including the teaching of Valentinus, the demiurge is simply ignorant or misguided.\n\nPlato, as the speaker Timaeus, refers to the Demiurge frequently in the Socratic dialogue \"Timaeus\" (28a ff.),  360 BC. The main character refers to the Demiurge as the entity who \"fashioned and shaped\" the material world. Timaeus describes the Demiurge as unreservedly benevolent, and so it desires a world as good as possible. The world remains imperfect, however, because the Demiurge created the world out of a chaotic, indeterminate non-being. Plato's work \"Timaeus\" is a philosophical reconciliation of Hesiod's cosmology in his \"Theogony\", syncretically reconciling Hesiod to Homer.\n\nIn Numenius's Neo-Pythagorean and Middle Platonist cosmogony, the Demiurge is second God as the \"nous\" or thought of intelligibles and sensibles.\n\nPlotinus and the later Platonists worked to clarify the Demiurge. To Plotinus, the second emanation represents an uncreated second cause (see Pythagoras' Dyad). Plotinus sought to reconcile Aristotle's \"energeia\" with Plato's Demiurge, which, as Demiurge and mind (\"nous\"), is a critical component in the ontological construct of human consciousness used to explain and clarify substance theory within Platonic realism (also called idealism). In order to reconcile Aristotelian with Platonian philosophy, Plotinus metaphorically identified the demiurge (or \"nous\") within the pantheon of the Greek Gods as Zeus.\n\nThe first and highest aspect of God is described by Plato as the One (Τὸ Ἕν, \"To Hen\"), the source, or the Monad. This is the God above the Demiurge, and manifests through the actions of the Demiurge. The Monad emanated the demiurge or \"Nous\" (consciousness) from its \"indeterminate\" vitality due to the monad being so abundant that it overflowed back onto itself, causing self-reflection. This self-reflection of the indeterminate vitality was referred to by Plotinus as the \"Demiurge\" or creator. The second principle is organization in its reflection of the nonsentient force or \"dynamis\", also called the one or the Monad. The dyad is \"energeia\" emanated by the one that is then the work, process or activity called \"nous\", Demiurge, mind, consciousness that organizes the indeterminate vitality into the experience called the material world, universe, cosmos. Plotinus also elucidates the equation of matter with nothing or non-being in \"The Enneads\" which more correctly is to express the concept of idealism or that there is not anything or anywhere outside of the \"mind\" or \"nous\" (c.f. pantheism).\n\nPlotinus' form of Platonic idealism is to treat the Demiurge, \"nous\" as the contemplative faculty (\"ergon\") within man which orders the force (\"dynamis\") into conscious reality. In this, he claimed to reveal Plato's true meaning: a doctrine he learned from Platonic tradition that did not appear outside the academy or in Plato's text. This tradition of creator God as \"nous\" (the manifestation of consciousness), can be validated in the works of pre-Plotinus philosophers such as Numenius, as well as a connection between Hebrew and Platonic cosmology (see also Philo).\n\nThe Demiurge of Neoplatonism is the \"Nous\" (mind of God), and is one of the three ordering principles:\n\nBefore Numenius of Apamea and Plotinus' \"Enneads\", no Platonic works ontologically clarified the Demiurge from the allegory in Plato's \"Timaeus\". The idea of Demiurge was, however, addressed before Plotinus in the works of Christian writer Justin Martyr who built his understanding of the Demiurge on the works of Numenius.\n\nLater, the Neoplatonist Iamblichus changed the role of the \"One\", effectively altering the role of the Demiurge as second cause or dyad, which was one of the reasons that Iamblichus and his teacher Porphyry came into conflict.\n\nThe figure of the Demiurge emerges in the theoretic of Iamblichus, which conjoins the transcendent, incommunicable “One,” or Source. Here, at the summit of this system, the Source and Demiurge (material realm) coexist via the process of \"henosis\".\nIamblichus describes the One as a monad whose first principle or emanation is intellect (\"nous\"), while among \"the many\" that follow it there is a second, super-existent \"One\" that is the producer of intellect or soul (\"psyche\").\n\nThe \"One\" is further separated into spheres of intelligence; the first and superior sphere is objects of thought, while the latter sphere is the domain of thought. Thus, a triad is formed of the intelligible \"nous\", the intellective \"nous\", and the \"psyche\" in order to reconcile further the various Hellenistic philosophical schools of Aristotle's \"actus\" and \"potentia\" (actuality and potentiality) of the unmoved mover and Plato's Demiurge.\n\nThen within this intellectual triad Iamblichus assigns the third rank to the Demiurge, identifying it with the perfect or Divine \"nous\" with the intellectual triad being promoted to a \"hebdomad\" (pure intellect).\n\nIn the theoretic of Plotinus, \"nous\" produces nature through intellectual mediation, thus the intellectualizing gods are followed by a triad of psychic gods.\n\nGnosticism presents a distinction between the highest, unknowable God and the demiurgic \"creator\" of the material. Several systems of Gnostic thought present the Demiurge as antagonistic to the will of the Supreme Being: his act of creation occurs in an unconscious semblance of the divine model, and thus is fundamentally flawed, or else is formed with the malevolent intention of entrapping aspects of the divine \"in\" materiality. Thus, in such systems, the Demiurge acts as a solution to (or, at least possibly, the problem or cause that gives rise to) the problem of evil.\n\nOne Gnostic mythos describes the declination of aspects of the divine into human form. Sophia (Greek: Σοφία, lit. \"wisdom\"), the Demiurge's mother a partial aspect of the divine \"Pleroma\" or \"Fullness,\" desired to create something apart from the divine totality, without the receipt of divine assent. In this act of separate creation, she gave birth to the monstrous Demiurge and, being ashamed of her deed, wrapped him in a cloud and created a throne for him within it. The Demiurge, isolated, did not behold his mother, nor anyone else, and concluded that only he existed, ignorant of the superior levels of reality.\n\nThe Demiurge, having received a portion of power from his mother, sets about a work of creation in unconscious imitation of the superior Pleromatic realm: He frames the seven heavens, as well as all material and animal things, according to forms furnished by his mother; working however blindly, and ignorant even of the existence of the mother who is the source of all his energy. He is blind to all that is spiritual, but he is king over the other two provinces. The word \"dēmiourgos\" properly describes his relation to the material; he is the \"father\" of that which is animal like himself.\n\nThus Sophia's power becomes enclosed within the material forms of humanity, themselves entrapped within the material universe: the goal of Gnostic movements was typically the awakening of this spark, which permitted a return by the subject to the superior, non-material realities which were its primal source.\n\nPsalm 82 begins (), \"God stands in the assembly of El (the Septuagint here says the assembly of gods), in the midst of the gods he renders judgment\", indicating a plurality of gods, although it does not indicate that these gods were co-actors in creation. Philo had inferred from the expression \"Let us make man\" of the Book of Genesis that God had used other beings as assistants in the creation of man, and he explains in this way why man is capable of vice as well as virtue, ascribing the origin of the latter to God, of the former to His helpers in the work of creation.\n\nThe earliest Gnostic sects ascribe the work of creation to angels, some of them using the same passage in Genesis. So Irenaeus tells of the system of Simon Magus, of the system of Menander, of the system of Saturninus, in which the number of these angels is reckoned as seven, and of the system of Carpocrates. In the report of the system of Basilides, we are told that our world was made by the angels who occupy the lowest heaven; but special mention is made of their chief, who is said to have been the God of the Jews, to have led that people out of the land of Egypt, and to have given them their law. The prophecies are ascribed not to the chief but to the other world-making angels.\n\nThe Latin translation, confirmed by Hippolytus of Rome, makes Irenaeus state that according to Cerinthus (who shows Ebionite influence), creation was made by a power quite separate from the Supreme God and ignorant of Him. Theodoret, who here copies Irenaeus, turns this into the plural number \"powers,\" and so Epiphanius of Salamis represents Cerinthus as agreeing with Carpocrates in the doctrine that the world was made by angels.\n\nIn the Ophite and Sethian systems, which have many affinities with the teachings of Valentinus, the making of the world is ascribed to a company of seven archons, whose names are given, but still more prominent is their chief, \"Yaldabaoth\" (also known as \"Yaltabaoth\" or \"Ialdabaoth\").\n\nIn the \"Apocryphon of John\"  AD 120–180, the demiurge arrogantly declares that he has made the world by himself:\n\nNow the archon [\"ruler\"] who is weak has three names. The first name is Yaltabaoth, the second is Saklas [\"fool\"], and the third is Samael. And he is impious in his arrogance which is in him. For he said, 'I am God and there is no other God beside me,' for he is ignorant of his strength, the place from which he had come.\n\nHe is Demiurge and maker of man, but as a ray of light from above enters the body of man and gives him a soul, Yaldabaoth is filled with envy; he tries to limit man's knowledge by forbidding him the fruit of knowledge in paradise. At the consummation of all things, all light will return to the Pleroma. But Yaldabaoth, the Demiurge, with the material world, will be cast into the lower depths.\n\nYaldabaoth is frequently called \"the Lion-faced\", \"leontoeides\", and is said to have the body of a serpent. The demiurge is also described as having a fiery nature, applying the words of Moses to him: \"the Lord our God is a burning and consuming fire\". Hippolytus claims that Simon used a similar description.\n\nIn \"Pistis Sophia\", Yaldabaoth has already sunk from his high estate and resides in Chaos, where, with his forty-nine demons, he tortures wicked souls in boiling rivers of pitch, and with other punishments (pp. 257, 382). He is an archon with the face of a lion, half flame, and half darkness.\n\nUnder the name of \"Nebro\" (rebel), Yaldabaoth is called an angel in the apocryphal \"Gospel of Judas\". He is first mentioned in \"The Cosmos, Chaos, and the Underworld\" as one of the twelve angels to come \"into being [to] rule over chaos and the [underworld]\". He comes from heaven, and it is said his \"face flashed with fire and [his] appearance was defiled with blood\". Nebro creates six angels in addition to the angel Saklas to be his assistants. These six, in turn, create another twelve angels \"with each one receiving a portion in the heavens\".\n\nThe most probable derivation of the name \"Yaldabaoth\" was that given by Johann Karl Ludwig Gieseler. Giesler believed the name was derived from the Aramaic \"yaldā bahuth\", , meaning \"Son of Chaos\". However, Gilles Quispel notes:\n\"Samael\" literally means \"Blind God\" or \"God of the Blind\" in Hebrew (). This being is considered not only blind, or ignorant of its own origins but may, in addition, be evil; its name is also found in Judaism as the Angel of Death and in Christian demonology. This link to Judeo-Christian tradition leads to a further comparison with Satan. Another alternative title for the demiurge is \"Saklas\", Aramaic for \"fool\".\n\nThe angelic name \"Ariel\" (meaning \"the lion of God\" in Hebrew) has also been used to refer to the Demiurge and is called his \"perfect\" name; in some Gnostic lore, Ariel has been called an ancient or original name for Ialdabaoth. The name has also been inscribed on amulets as \"Ariel Ialdabaoth\", and the figure of the archon inscribed with \"Aariel\".\n\nAccording to Marcion, the title God was given to the Demiurge, who was to be sharply distinguished from the higher Good God. The former was \"díkaios,\" severely just, the latter \"agathós,\" or loving-kind; the former was the \"god of this world\" (), the God of the Old Testament, the latter the true God of the New Testament. Christ, though in reality the Son of the Good God, pretended to be the Messiah of the Demiurge, the better to spread the truth concerning His heavenly Father. The true believer in Christ entered into God's kingdom, the unbeliever remained forever the slave of the Demiurge.\n\nIt is in the system of Valentinus that the name \"Dēmiourgos\" is used, which occurs nowhere in Irenaeus except in connection with the Valentinian system; we may reasonably conclude that it was Valentinus who adopted from Platonism the use of this word. When it is employed by other Gnostics either it is not used in a technical sense, or its use has been borrowed from Valentinus. But it is only the name that can be said to be specially Valentinian; the personage intended by it corresponds more or less closely with the Yaldabaoth of the Ophites, the great Archon of Basilides, the Elohim of Justinus, etc.\n\nThe Valentinian theory elaborates that from Achamoth (\"he kátō sophía\" or lower wisdom) three kinds of substance take their origin, the spiritual (\"pneumatikoí\"), the animal (\"psychikoí\") and the material (\"hylikoí\"). The Demiurge belongs to the second kind, as he was the offspring of a union of Achamoth with matter. And as Achamoth herself was only the daughter of \"Sophía\" the last of the thirty Aeons, the Demiurge was distant by many emanations from the Propatôr, or Supreme God.\n\nIn creating this world out of Chaos the Demiurge was unconsciously influenced for good; and the universe, to the surprise even of its Maker, became almost perfect. The Demiurge regretted even its slight imperfection, and as he thought himself the Supreme God, he attempted to remedy this by sending a Messiah. To this Messiah, however, was actually united with Jesus the Saviour, Who redeemed men. These are either \"hylikoí\" or \"pneumatikoí\".\n\nThe first, or material men, will return to the grossness of matter and finally be consumed by fire; the second, or animal men, together with the Demiurge, will enter a middle state, neither Pleroma nor \"hyle\"; the purely spiritual men will be completely freed from the influence of the Demiurge and together with the Saviour and Achamoth, his spouse, will enter the Pleroma divested of body (\"hyle\") and soul (\"psyché\"). In this most common form of Gnosticism the Demiurge had an inferior though not intrinsically evil function in the universe as the head of the animal, or psychic world.\n\nOpinions on the devil, and his relationship to the Demiurge, varied. The Ophites held that he and his demons constantly oppose and thwart the human race, as it was on their account the devil was cast down into this world. According to one variant of the Valentinian system, the Demiurge is also the maker, out of the appropriate substance, of an order of \"spiritual\" beings, the devil, the prince of this world, and his angels. But the devil, as being a \"spirit\" of wickedness, is able to recognise the higher spiritual world, of which his maker the Demiurge, who is only animal, has no real knowledge. The devil resides in this lower world, of which he is the prince, the Demiurge in the heavens; his mother Sophia in the middle region, above the heavens and below the Pleroma.\n\nThe Valentinian Heracleon interpreted the devil as the \"principle\" of evil, that of \"hyle\" (matter). As he writes in his commentary on ,\nThe mountain represents the Devil, or his world, since the Devil was one part of the whole of matter, but the world is the total mountain of evil, a deserted dwelling place of beasts, to which all who lived before the law and all Gentiles render worship. But Jerusalem represents the creation or the Creator whom the Jews worship. . . . You then who are spiritual should worship neither the creation nor the Craftsman, but the Father of Truth. \n\nThis vilification of the creator was held to be inimical to Christianity by the early fathers of the church. In refuting the beliefs of the gnostics, Irenaeus stated that \"Plato is proved to be more religious than these men, for he allowed that the same God was both just and good, having power over all things, and himself executing judgment.\"\n\nCatharism apparently inherited their idea of Satan as the creator of the evil world from Gnosticism. Quispel writes,\n\nGnosticism attributed falsehood or evil to the concept of the Demiurge or creator, though in some Gnostic traditions the creator is from a fallen, ignorant, or lesser—rather than evil—perspective, such as that of Valentinius.\n\nThe Neoplatonic philosopher Plotinus addressed within his works Gnosticism's conception of the Demiurge, which he saw as un-Hellenic and blasphemous to the Demiurge or creator of Plato. Plotinus is noted as the founder of Neoplatonism (along with his teacher Ammonius Saccas). In the ninth tractate of the second of his \"Enneads\", Plotinus criticizes his opponents for their appropriation of ideas from Plato:\n\nOf note here is the remark concerning the second hypostasis or Creator and third hypostasis or World Soul. Plotinus criticizes his opponents for \"all the novelties through which they seek to establish a philosophy of their own\" which, he declares, \"have been picked up outside of the truth\"; they attempt to conceal rather than admit their indebtedness to ancient philosophy, which they have corrupted by their extraneous and misguided embellishments. Thus their understanding of the Demiurge is similarly flawed in comparison to Plato’s original intentions.\n\nWhereas Plato's Demiurge is good wishing good on his creation, Gnosticism contends that the Demiurge is not only the originator of evil but is evil as well. Hence the title of Plotinus' refutation: \"Against Those That Affirm the Creator of the Kosmos and the Kosmos Itself to be Evil\" (generally quoted as \"Against the Gnostics\"). Plotinus argues of the disconnect or great barrier that is created between the \"nous\" or mind's noumenon (see Heraclitus) and the material world (phenomenon) by believing the material world is evil.\n\nThe majority of scholars tend to understand Plotinus' opponents as being a Gnostic sect—certainly (specifically Sethian), several such groups were present in Alexandria and elsewhere about the Mediterranean during Plotinus' lifetime. Plotinus specifically points to the Gnostic doctrine of Sophia and her emission of the Demiurge.\n\nThough the former understanding certainly enjoys the greatest popularity, the identification of Plotinus' opponents as Gnostic is not without some contention. Christos Evangeliou has contended that Plotinus’ opponents might be better described as simply \"Christian Gnostics\", arguing that several of Plotinus’ criticisms are as applicable to orthodox Christian doctrine as well. Also, considering the evidence from the time, Evangeliou thought the definition of the term \"Gnostics\" was unclear. Of note here is that while Plotinus' student Porphyry names Christianity specifically in Porphyry's own works, and Plotinus is to have been a known associate of the Christian Origen, none of Plotinus' works mention Christ or Christianity—whereas Plotinus specifically addresses his target in the \"Enneads\" as the Gnostics.\n\nA.H. Armstrong identified the so-called \"Gnostics\" that Plotinus was attacking as Jewish and Pagan, in his introduction to the tract in his translation of the \"Enneads\". Armstrong alluding to Gnosticism being a Hellenic philosophical heresy of sorts, which later engaged Christianity and Neoplatonism.\n\nJohn D. Turner, professor of religious studies at the University of Nebraska, and famed translator and editor of the Nag Hammadi library, stated that the text Plotinus and his students read was Sethian Gnosticism, which predates Christianity. It appears that Plotinus attempted to clarify how the philosophers of the academy had not arrived at the same conclusions (such as dystheism or misotheism for the creator God as an answer to the problem of evil) as the targets of his criticism.\n\nEmil Cioran also wrote his \"Le mauvais démiurge\" (\"The Evil Demiurge\"), published in 1969, influenced by Gnosticism and Schopenhauerian interpretation of Platonic ontology, as well as that of Plotinus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8539", "title": "Devil", "text": "Devil\n\nA devil is the personification of evil as it is conceived in many and various cultures and religious traditions. It is seen as the objectification of a hostile and destructive force.\n\nIt is difficult to specify a particular definition of any complexity that will cover all of the traditions, beyond that it is a manifestation of evil. It is meaningful to consider the devil through the lens of each of the cultures and religions that have the devil as part of their mythos. \n\nThe history of this concept intertwines with theology, mythology, psychiatry, art and literature, maintaining a validity, and developing independently within each of the traditions. It occurs historically in many contexts and cultures, and is given many different names — Satan, Lucifer, Beelzebub, Mephistopheles — and attributes: It is portrayed as blue, black, or red; It is portrayed as having horns on its head, and without horns, and so on. The idea of the devil has been taken seriously often, but not always, for example when devil figures are used in advertising and on candy wrappers.\n\nThe Modern English word \"devil\" derives from the Middle English \"devel\", from Old English \"dēofol\", that in turn represents an early Germanic borrowing of Latin \"diabolus\". This in turn was borrowed from \"diábolos\", \"slanderer\", from \"diabállein\", \"to slander\" from διά \"diá\", \"across, through\" and βάλλειν \"bállein\", \"to hurl\", probably akin to the Sanskrit \"gurate\", \"he lifts up\".\n\nIn his book \"The Devil: Perceptions of Evil from Antiquity to Primitive Christianity\" Jeffrey Burton Russell discusses various meanings, and difficulties that are encountered when using the term \"Devil\". He doesn’t claim to define the word in a general sense, but he describes the limited use that he intends for the word in his book — limited in order to “minimize this difficulty” and “for the sake of clarity”. In this book Russel uses the word \"Devil\" as \"the personification of evil found in a variety of cultures\", as opposed the word \"Satan\", which he reserves specifically for the figure in the Abrahamic religions.\n\nIn the introduction to his book, \"Satan: A Biography\", Henry Ansgar Kelly discusses various considerations and meanings that he has encountered in using terms such as \"devil\" and \"Satan\", etc. While not offering a general definition, he describes that in his book \"whenever \"diabolos\" is used as the proper name of Satan\", he signals it by using \"small caps.\"\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" has a variety of definitions for the meaning of \"devil\", supported by a range of citations: \"Devil\" may refer to Satan, the supreme spirit of evil, or one of the Satan's emissaries or demons that populate Hell, or to one of the spirits that possess a demonic person; \"devil\" may refer to one of the \"malignant deities\" feared and worshiped by \"heathen people\", a demon, a malignant being of superhuman powers; figuratively “devil\" may be applied to a wicked person, or playfully to a rogue or rascal, or in empathy often accompanied by the word “poor\" to a person — \"poor devil\".\n\nThe earliest Hindu texts do not offer further explanations for evil, regarding evil as something natural. However, later texts offer various explanations for evil. According to an explanation given by the Brahmins, both demons and gods spoke truth and untruth, but the demons relinquished the truth and the gods relinquished the untruth. But both spirits are regarded as different aspects of one supreme god. Even some fierce deities like Kali are not thought of as devils but just as darker aspects of God and may even manifest benevolence.\n\nApep () or Apophis (; ; also spelled Apepi or Aapep) was the ancient Egyptian deity who embodied chaos (\"ı͗zft\" in Egyptian) and was thus the opponent of light and Ma'at (order/truth). He appears in art as a giant serpent. His name is reconstructed by Egyptologists as *ʻAʼpāpī, as it was written \"ꜥꜣpp(y)\" and survived in later Coptic as \"Aphōph\".\n\nThe deity Set was originally associated with both positive and negative roles: a protector of Ra on the solar boat from the Serpent of Chaos, and a usurper who killed and mutilated his brother in order to assume the throne. However, he was later demonized and he became quite unpopular. According to Herman te Velde, the demonization of Set took place after Egypt's conquest by several foreign nations in the Third Intermediate and Late Periods. Set, who had traditionally been the god of foreigners, thus also became associated with foreign oppressors, including the Assyrian and Persian empires. It was during this time that Set was particularly vilified, and his defeat by Horus widely celebrated. Set's negative aspects were emphasized during this period. Set was the killer of Osiris, having hacked Osiris' body into pieces and dispersed it so that he could not be resurrected. The Greeks later linked Set with Typhon because both were evil forces, storm deities, and sons of the Earth that attacked the main gods.\n\nNevertheless, throughout this period, in some outlying regions of Egypt Set was still regarded as the heroic chief deity.\n\nSet has also been classed as a Trickster deity who, as a god of disorder, resorts to deception to achieve bad ends.\n\nZoroastrianism probably introduced the first idea of the conceptual \"devil\"; a principle of evil independently existing apart from God. In Zoroastrianism, good and evil derive from two ultimately opposed forces. The force of good is called Ahura Mazda and the \"destructive spirit\" in Avestan-language called Angra Mainyu. The Middle Persian equivalent is Ahriman. They are in eternal struggle and neither is all-powerful, especially Angra Mainyu is limited to space and time: in the end of time, he will be finally defeated. While Ahura Mazda creates what is good, Angra Mainyu is responsible for every evil and suffering in the world, such as toads and scorpions.\n\nBuddhism contains a devil-like figure called Mara (Sanskrit: \"māra\"; ; Tibetan Wylie: \"bdud\"; ; ; ; ), who is a tempter figure in Buddhism, distracting humans from practicing the spiritual life by making mundane things alluring, or the negative seem positive. He tempted Gautama Buddha by trying to seduce him with the vision of beautiful women who, in various legends, are often said to be Mara's daughters. In Buddhist cosmology, Mara personifies unwholesome impulses, unskillfulness, the \"death\" of the spiritual life.\n\nAmong the Tengristic myths, Erlik refers to a devil-like figure as the ruler of hell, who is also the first human. According to one narrative, Erlik and God swam together over the primordial waters. When God was about to create the earth, he send Erlik to dive into the waters and collect some mud. Erlik hid inside his mouth to later create his own world. But when God commanded earth to expand Erlik got troubled by the earth in his mouth. God aided Erlik to spit it out. The earth carried by Erlik gave place to the unpleasant areas of the world. Because of his sin, he was assigned to evil. In another cariant, the creator-god is identified with Ulgen. Again, Erlik appears to be the first human. He desired to create a human just as Ulgen did, thereupon Ulgen reacted by punishing Erlik, casting him into the underworld there he becomes its ruler.\n\nAccording to Tengrism, there is no death by meaning that life comes to an end, it is merely a transition into the invisible world. As the ruler of hell, Erlik enslaves the souls, who are damned to hell. Further he lurks on the souls of those humans living on earth, by causing death, disease and illnesses. At time of birth, Erlik sends a Kormos to seize the soul of the new-born, following him the rest of his life in an attempt to seize his soul by hampering, misguide and injure him. When Erlik succeeds in destroying the a humans body, the Kormos sent by Erlik will try take him down into the underworld. However a good soul will be brought to paradise, by a \"Yayutshi\" sent by Ulgen. Some shamans also made sacrifices to Erlik, for gaining a higher rank in the underworld, if they should be damned to hell.\n\nAccording to Yazidism there is no entity that represents evil in opposition to God; such dualism is rejected by Yazidis, and evil is regarded as non-existent. Yazidis adhere to strict monism and are prohibited from uttering the word \"devil\" and from speaking of anything related to hell.\n\nYahweh, the god in pre-exilic Judaism, created both good and evil, as stated in Isaiah 45:7: \"I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the Lord do all these things.\" The Devil did not exist in early Jewish scriptures. However, the influence of Zoroastrianism during the Achaemenid Empire introduced evil as a separate principle into the Jewish belief-system, which gradually externalized the opposition until the Hebrew term \"satan\" developed into a specific type of supernatural entity, changing the monistic view of Judaism into a dualistic one. Later Rabbinic Judaism rejected the Enochian books (written during the Second Temple period under Persian influence), which depicted the Devil as an independent force of evil besides God. After the apocalyptic period, references to Satan in the Tanakh are thought to be allegorical.\n\nIn Christianity, evil is incarnate in the Devil or Satan, a fallen angel who is the primary opponent of God.\n\nChristians considered the Roman and Greek deities devils. \n\nChristianity identifies the Devil with the serpent who tempted Adam and Eve to eat the forbidden fruit, and describes him as a fallen angel who terrorizes the world through evil, is the antithesis of Truth, and shall be condemned, together with the fallen angels who follow him, to eternal fire at the Last Judgement. In mainstream Christianity the devil is usually referred to as Satan. Some modern Christians consider the devil to be an angel who, along with one-third of the angelic host (the demons) rebelled against God and has consequently been condemned to the Lake of Fire. He is described as hating all humanity (or more accurately creation), opposing God, spreading lies and wreaking havoc on their souls.\n\nSatan is often identified as the serpent who convinced Eve to eat the forbidden fruit; thus, Satan has often been depicted as a serpent. Although this identification is not present in the Adam and Eve narrative, this interpretation goes back at least as far as the time of the writing of the Book of Revelation, which specifically identifies Satan as being the serpent (Rev. 20:2).\n\nIn the Bible, the devil is identified with \"the dragon\" and \"the old serpent\" in the Book of Revelation 12:9, 20:2 have also been identified with Satan, as has \"the prince of this world\" in the Gospel of John 12:31, 14:30; and \"the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience\" in the Epistle to the Ephesians 2:2; and \"the god of this world\" in 2 Corinthians 4:4. He is also identified as the dragon in the Book of Revelation (e.g.), and the tempter of the Gospels (e.g.).\n\nThe devil is sometimes called Lucifer, particularly when describing him as an angel before his fall, although the reference in Isaiah 14:12 to Lucifer, or the Son of the Morning, is a reference to a Babylonian king.\n\nBeelzebub is originally the name of a Philistine god (more specifically a certain type of Baal, from \"Ba‘al Zebûb\", lit. \"Lord of Flies\") but is also used in the New Testament as a synonym for Satan. A corrupted version, \"Belzeboub\", appears in The Divine Comedy (Inferno XXXIV).\n\nIn other, non-mainstream, Christian beliefs (e.g. the beliefs of the Christadelphians) the word \"satan\" in the Bible is not regarded as referring to a supernatural, personal being but to any 'adversary' and figuratively refers to human sin and temptation.\n\nIn the Book of Wisdom, the devil is represented as the one who brought death into the world. The Second Book of Enoch contains references to a Watcher angel called Satanael, describing him as the prince of the \"Grigori\" who was cast out of heaven and an evil spirit who knew the difference between what was \"righteous\" and \"sinful\".\n\nIn the Book of Jubilees, Satan rules over a host of angels. Mastema, who induced God to test Abraham through the sacrifice of Isaac, is identical with Satan in both name and nature. The Book of Enoch contains references to Sathariel, thought also to be Sataniel and Satan'el. The similar spellings mirror that of his angelic brethren Michael, Raphael, Uriel and Gabriel, previous to his expulsion from Heaven.\n\nGnostic and Gnostic influenced religions repeatedly addressed the idea, that the material world is inherently evil. The \"One true God\" is far remote, beyond the material universe, therefore this universe must be gouverned by an inferior imposter deity. This deity was identified by some sects, such as the Sethians or the Marcions, with the deity of the Old testament. Tertullian accuses Marcion of Sinope, that he John Arendzen (1909) in the Catholic Encyclopedia (1913) mentions that Eusebius accused Apelles, the 2nd-century AD Gnostic, of considering the Inspirer of Old-Testament prophecies to be not a god, but an evil angel. These writings commonly refer to the Creator of the material world as \"a demiurgus\". to distinguish him from the \"One true God\". Some texts, such as the \"Apocryphon of John\" and \"On the Origin of the World\" not only demonized the Creator God but also called him by the name of the devil in some Jewish writings, \"Samael\".\n\nAccording to Mandaean mythology, \"Ruha Qadishta\" fell apart from the \"world of light\" and gave birth to the \"Lord of Darkness\" (\"malka dhshuka\") named \"Ur\". According to one tradition, Ur is an androgyne lion-headed dragon with the wings of an eagle. Together they create several evil demons, liliths and vampires. Ruha Qadishta is described as a liar and sorcerer. Several Abrahamitic prophets are regarded as servants of these devils or their subordinates such as Adonai, including Moses. Jesus appears as another son of Ruha Qadishta and Ur, who distorted the Baptism-ritual thought by John the Baptist. Eventually Ruha will be rehabilitated and return to the world of light.\n\nIn the 12th century in Europe the Cathars, who were rooted in Gnosticism, dealt with the problem of evil, and developed ideas of dualism and demonology. The Cathars were seen as a serious potential challenge to the Catholic church of the time. The Cathars split into two camps. The first is \"absolute\" dualism, which held that evil was completely separate from the good God, and that God and the devil each had power. The second camp is \"mitigated\" dualism, which considers Lucifer to be a son of God, and a brother to Christ. To explain this they used the parable of the prodigal son, with Christ as the good soon, and Lucifer as the son that strayed into evilness. The Catholic church responded to dualism in 1215 AD in the Fourth Lateran Council, saying that God created everything from nothing, and the Devil was good when he was created, but he made himself bad by his own free will. In the \"Gospel of the secret supper\", Lucifer, just as in prior Gnostic systems, appears as a demiurge, who created the material world.\n\nIn Manichaeism, God and the Devil are two unrelated principles. God created \"good\" and inhabits the realm of light, while the devil (also called \"prince of darkness\") created evil and inhabits the kingdom of darkness. The existing came into existence, when the kingdom of darkness assaulted the kingdom of light and mingled with the spiritual world. At the end, the devil and his followers will be sealed forever and the kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness will continue to co-exist eternally never commingle again.\n\nHegemonius (4th century) accuses the Persian prophet Mani, founder of the Manichaean sect in the 3rd century AD, identified Jehovah as \"the devil god which created the world\" and said that \"he who spoke with Moses, the Jews, and the priests … is the [Prince] of Darkness, … not the god of truth.\"\n\nIn Islam, the principle of evil is expressed by two terms referring to the same entity: \"Shaitan\" (meaning \"astray\", \"distant\" or \"devil\") and Iblis. Iblis is the proper name of the Devil representing the characteristics of evil. Iblis is mentioned in the Quranic narrative about the creation of humanity. When God created Adam, he ordered the angels to prostrate themselves before him. All did, but Iblis refused and claimed to be superior to Adam out of pride. Therefore, pride but also envy became a sign of \"unbelief\" in Islam. Thereafter Iblis was condemned to hell, but God granted him a request to lead humanity astray, knowing the righteous will resist Iblis' attempts to misguide them. In Islam, both good and evil are ultimately created by God. But since God's will is good, the evil in the world must be part of God's plan. Actually, God allowed the Devil to seduce humanity. Evil and suffering are regarded as a test or a chance to proof confidence in God. Some philosophers and mystics emphasized Iblis himself as a role model of confidence in God, because God ordered the angels to prostrate themselves, Iblis was forced to choose between God's command and God's will (not to praise someone else than God). He successfully passed the test, yet his disobedience caused his punishment and therefore suffering. However, he stays patient and is rewarded in the end.\n\nMuslims held that the pre-Islamic Jinn, tutelary deities, became subject under Islam to the judgment of God, and that those who did not submit to the law of God are demons.\n\nLike in Christianity, Iblis was once a pious creature of God, but later cast out of heaven, due to his pride. However, to maintain God's absolute sovereignty, Islam adopts the line taken by Irenaeus, instead of the later Christian consensus, that the Devil did not rebel against God, but against humanity. Further, although Iblis is generally regarded as a real bodily entity, he plays a less significant role as the personification of evil than in Christianity. Iblis is merely a tempter, notable for inciting humans into sin by \"whispering\" into humans minds (waswās), akin to the Jewish idea of the Devil as \"yetzer hara\".\n\nOn the other hand, \"Shaitan\" refers unilaterally to forces of evil, including the Devil Iblis, then he causes mischief. Shaitan is also linked to humans psychological nature, appearing in dreams, causing anger or interrupting the mental preparation for prayer. Furthermore, the term \"Shaitan\" also refers to beings, who follow the evil suggestions of Iblis. Furthermore, the principle of \"Shaitan\" is in many ways a symbol of spiritual impurity, representing humans own deficits, in contrast to a \"true Muslim\", who is free from anger, lust and other devilish desires.\n\nIn contrast to \"Occidental philosophy\", the Sufi idea of seeing \"Many as One\" and considering the creation in their essence as the Absolute, leads to the idea of the dissolution of any dualism between the ego substance and the \"external\" substinantial objects. The rebellion against God, mentioned in the Quran, takes place on the level of the psyche, that must be trained and disciplined for its union with the spirit that is pure. Since psyche drives the body, \"flesh\" is not the obstacle to human, but an unawarness that allowed the impulsive forces to cause rebellion against God on the level of the psyche. Yet, it is not a dualism between body, psyche and spirit, since the spirit embraces both psyche and corperal aspects of human. Since the world is hold as the mirror in which God's attributes are reflected, participation in worldly affairs is not necessarily seen as opposed to God. The Devil activates the selfish desires of the psyche, leading him astray from the Divine. Thus it is the \"I\" that is regarded as evil, and both Iblis as well as \"Pharao\" are present as symbols for uttering \"I\" in ones own behavior. Therefore it is recommanded, to use the term \"I\" as rare as possible. It is only God who has the right to say \"I\", since it is only God, who is self-subsistent. Uttering \"I\" is therefore a way to compare oneselves to God, regarded as \"shirk\".\n\nSalafi strands of Islam commonly emphasize a dualistic worldview between the believers and the unbelievers, with the Devil as the enemy of God's path. Even though the Devil will be finally defeated by God, he is a serious and dangerous opponent of humans. While in classical hadiths, the demons (\"Shayateen\") and the jinn are responsible for impurity and possibly endanger people, in Salafi thought, it is the Devil himself, who lurks on the believers, always striving to lead them astray from God. The Devil is regarded as an omnipresent entity, permanently inciting humans into sin, but can be \"pushed away\" by remembering the name God. The Devil is regarded as an external entity, threatening the everyday life of the believer, even in social aspects of life. Thus for example, it is the Devil, who is responsible for Western emancipation.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, a malevolent, superhuman entity such as a \"devil\" or \"satan\" is not believed to exist. These terms do, however, appear in the Bahá'í writings, where they are used as metaphors for the lower nature of man. Human beings are seen to have free will, and are thus able to turn towards God and develop spiritual qualities or turn away from God and become immersed in their self-centered desires. Individuals who follow the temptations of the self and do not develop spiritual virtues are often described in the Bahá'í writings with the word \"satanic\". The Bahá'í writings also state that the devil is a metaphor for the \"insistent self\" or \"lower self\" which is a self-serving inclination within each individual. Those who follow their lower nature are also described as followers of \"the Evil One\".\n\nIn some traditions, divinities can become demons. The Teutonic gods demonized the Giants.\n\nIn some religions and traditions, these titles are separate demons; others identify these names as guises of the devil. Even when thought of as individual demons, some are often thought of being under the Devil's direct control. This identifies only those thought of as the devil; List of demons has a more general listing.\n\nThese are titles that almost always refer to devil-figures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2453547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2453547", "title": "Diane F. Halpern", "text": "Diane F. Halpern\n\nDiane F. Halpern is an American psychologist and former president of the American Psychological Association (APA). She is Dean of Social Science at the Minerva Schools at KGI (Keck Graduate Institute) and also the McElwee Family Professor of Psychology at Claremont McKenna College. She is also past-president of the Western Psychological Association, The Society for the Teaching of Psychology, and the Division of General Psychology.\n\nHalpern served on boards and panels at the APA including the Board of Educational Affairs, the Council of Representatives, the Committee on International Relations in Psychology, the Committee on Learning Outcomes, and Teachers of Psychology in Secondary Schools. She chaired the Panel on Public Policy and APA's National Conference on Undergraduate Education that resulted in the publication \"Undergraduate Education in Psychology: A Blueprint for the Future of the Discipline\".\n\nAlong with Keith Millis (Northern Illinois University) and Arthur C. Graesser (University of Memphis), Halpern developed Operation ARA, a computerized game that teaches scientific reasoning. She also developed the Halpern Critical Thinking Assessment (Schuhfried Publishers) that uses multiple response formats which allow test-takers to demonstrate their ability to think about everyday topics using both constructed response and recognition formats.\n\nHalpern received her B.A. from University of Pennsylvania and an M.A. from Temple University. She then received an M.A., from University of Cincinnati, followed by a Ph.D. from that institution in 1979. After teaching for many years at the California State University, San Bernardino, she is currently Professor of Psychology at Claremont McKenna College.\n\nIn 1995, Halpern was part of an 11-member APA task force led by Ulric Neisser which published \"\", a report written in response to \"The Bell Curve\". She has also written on cognitive differences between men and women. She suggests a biopsychosocial model offers superior insight into cognitive sex differences than a simple nature-vs-nurture dichotomy. Another topic of her research is risks associated with left-handedness. Halpern has also written in opposition of single-sex schooling, noting that it \"lacks scientific support and may exaggerate sexism and gender stereotyping.\"\n\nHalpern has won awards for her teaching and research, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31315770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31315770", "title": "Disorders of consciousness", "text": "Disorders of consciousness\n\nDisorders of consciousness are medical conditions that inhibit consciousness. Some define disorders of consciousness as any change from complete self-awareness to inhibited or absent self-awareness and arousal. This category generally includes minimally conscious state and persistent vegetative state, but sometimes also includes the less severe locked-in syndrome and more severe but rare chronic coma. Differential diagnosis of these disorders is an active area of biomedical research. Finally, brain death results in an irreversible disruption of consciousness. While other conditions may cause a moderate deterioration (e.g., dementia and delirium) or transient interruption (e.g., grand mal and petit mal seizures) of consciousness, they are not included in this category.\n\nPatients in such a dramatically altered state of consciousness present unique problems for diagnosis, prognosis and treatment. \nAssessment of cognitive functions remaining after a traumatic brain injury is difficult. Voluntary movements may be very small, inconsistent and easily exhausted. Quantification of brain activity differentiates patients who sometimes only differ by a brief and small movement of a finger.\n\nConsciousness is a complex and multifaceted concept, divided into two main components: Arousal and Awareness.\nArousal is associated with functional brainstem neuron populations projecting to both thalamic and cortical neurons. Therefore, the assessment of reflexes (Using the Glasgow Coma Scale) is important to investigate the functional integrity of the brainstem.\nAwareness is thought to be related with functional integrity of the cerebral cortex and its subcortical connections.\nThe most important point regarding the classification of disorders of consciousness is, that consciousness cannot be measured objectively by any machine, although many scoring systems have been developed for the quantification of consciousness and neuroimaging techniques are important tools for clinical research, extending our understanding of underlying mechanisms involved. Disorders in consciousness represent immense social and ethical issues because the diagnosis is methodologically complex and needs careful interpretation. Also the ethical framework must be further developed to guide research in these patients.\n\nIn locked-in syndrome the patient has awareness, sleep-wake cycles, and meaningful behavior (viz., eye-movement), but is isolated due to quadriplegia and pseudobulbar palsy, resulting from the disruption of corticospinal and corticobulbar pathways. Locked-in syndrome is a condition in which a patient is aware and awake but cannot move or communicate verbally due to complete paralysis of nearly all voluntary muscles in the body except for the eyes. Eye or eyelid movements are the main method of communication. Total locked-in syndrome is a version of locked-in syndrome where the eyes are paralyzed as well.\n\nIn a minimally conscious state, the patient has intermittent periods of awareness and wakefulness. The criteria for minimally conscious state, that patients are not in a vegetative state but are not able to communicate consistently. This means, that patients have to show limited but reproducible signs of awareness of themself or their environment. This could be following of simple commands, intelligible speech or purposeful behavior (including movements or affective behavior in relation to external stimuli, but not reflexive activity).\nFurther improvement towards full conscious recovery is more likely in this state than in the vegetative state, but still some patients remain in the MCS constantly.\n\nIn a persistent vegetative state, the patient has sleep-wake cycles, but lacks awareness, is not able to communicate and only displays reflexive and non-purposeful behavior. The term refers to an organic body that is able to grow and develop devoid of intellectual activity or social intercourse. The diagnosis of the vegetative state should be questioned when there is any degree of sustained and reproducible visual pursuit or fixation or response to threatening gestures.\nThis state reflects an intact brainstem and allied structures but severely damaged white and gray matter in both cerebral hemispheres. The preservation of these structures maintains arousal and automatic functions. The overall metabolism drops in average to 40-50% of the normal range. After four weeks in a vegetative state (VS), the patient is classified as in a persistent vegetative state. Here the metabolism drops to 30-40% of the normal range but seems to be a result of trans-synaptic neuronal degeneration.\nAlthough the diagnosis is problematic, the formal absence of any sign of conscious perception or deliberate action is essential.\nThis diagnosis can be further classified as a permanent vegetative state (PVS) after approximately 1 year of being in a vegetative state after traumatic brain injury\n\nLike coma, chronic coma results mostly from cortical or white-matter damage after neuronal or axonal injury, or from focal brainstem lesions.Usually the metabolism in the grey matter decreases to 50-70% of the normal range. The patient lacks awareness and arousal. The patient lies with eyes closed and is not aware of self or surroundings. Stimulation cannot produce spontaneous periods of wakefulness and eye-opening, unlike patients in vegetative state. In medicine, a coma (from the Greek κῶμα koma, meaning deep sleep) is a state of unconsciousness, lasting more than six hours in which a person cannot be awakened, fails to respond normally to painful stimuli, light, sound, lacks a normal sleep-wake cycle and does not initiate voluntary actions. Although, according to the Glasgow Coma Scale, a person with confusion is considered to be in the mildest coma. But cerebral metabolism has been shown to correlate poorly with the level of consciousness in patients with mild to severe injury within the first month after traumatic brain injury (TBI).\nA person in a state of coma is described as comatose. In general patients surviving a coma recover gradually within 2–4 weeks. But recovery to full awareness and arousal is not always possible. Some patients do not progress further than vegetative state or minimally conscious state and sometimes this also results in prolonged stages before further recovery to complete consciousness.\n\nAlthough a coma patient may appear to be awake, they are unable to consciously feel, speak, hear, or move. For a patient to maintain consciousness, two important neurological components must function impeccably. The first is the cerebral cortex which is the gray matter covering the outer layer of the brain. The other is a structure located in the brainstem, called reticular activating system (RAS or ARAS). Injury to either or both of these components is sufficient to cause a patient to experience a coma.\n\nBrain death is the irreversible end of all brain activity, and function (including involuntary activity necessary to sustain life). The main cause is total necrosis of the cerebral neurons following loss of brain oxygenation. After brain death the patient lacks any sense of awareness; sleep-wake cycles or behavior, and typically look as if they are dead or are in a deep sleep-state or coma. Although visually similar to a comatose state such as persistent vegetative state, the two should not be confused. Criteria for brain death differ from country to country. However, the clinical assessments are the same and require the loss of all brainstem reflexes and the demonstration of continuing apnea in a persistently comatose patient (< 4 weeks). \nFunctional imaging using PET or CT scans, typically show a hollow skull phenomenon. This confirms the absence of neuronal function in the whole brain.\nPatients classified as brain dead are legally dead and can qualify as organ donors, in which their organs are surgically removed and prepared for a particular recipient.\n\nBrain death is one of the deciding factors when pronouncing a trauma patient as dead. Determining function and presence of necrosis after trauma to the whole brain or brain-stem may be used to determine brain death, and is used in many states in the US.\n\nMetabolic studies are useful, but they are not able identify neural activity within a specific region to specific cognitive processes. Functionality can only be identified at the most general level: Metabolism in cortical and subcortical regions that may contribute to cognitive processes.\n\nAt present, there is no established relation between cerebral metabolic rates of glucose or oxygen as measured by PET and patient outcome. The decrease of cerebral metabolism occurs also when patients are treated with anesthetics to the point of unresponsiveness. Lowest value (28% of normal range) have been reported during propofol anesthesia. Also deep sleep represents a phase of decreased metabolism (down to 40% of the normal range)\nIn general, quantitative PET studies and the assessment of cerebral metabolic rates depends on many assumptions.\nPET for example requires a correction factor, the lumped constant, which is stable in healthy brains. There are reports, that a global decrease of this constant emerges after a traumatic brain injury.\nBut not only the correction factors change due to TBI. \nAnother issue is the possibility of anaerobic glycolysis that could occur after TBI. In such a case the glucose levels measured by the PET are not tightly connected to the oxygen consumption of the patient's brain.\nThird point regarding PET scans is the overall measurement per unit volume of brain tissue. The imaging can be affected by the inclusion of metabolically inactive spaces e.g. cerebrospinal fluidin the case of gross hydrocephalus, which artificially lowers the calculated metabolism.\nAlso the issue of radiation exposure must be considered in patients with already severely damaged brains and preclude longitudinal or follow-up studies.\n\nDisorders of consciousness present a variety of ethical concerns.\nMost obvious is the lack of consent in any treatment decisions. Patients in PVS or MCS are not able to decide for the possibility of withdrawal of life-support. It is also a general question whether they should receive life-sustaining therapy and, if so, for how long? The problems regarding a patient's consent also account for neuroimaging studies. Without patient's consent, such studies are perceived as unethical.\nAdditionally only few patients have created advance directives before losing decision-making capacity.\nTypically approval must be obtained from family or legal representatives depending on governmental and hospital guidelines. \nBut even with the consent of representatives, researchers have been refused grants, ethics committee approval and publication.\n\nSocial issues arise from the enormous costs that are caused by people with disorders of consciousness. Especially chronic comatose and vegetative patients, when recovery is highly unlikely and treatment in the ICU is considered futile by clinicians.\nIn addition to the aforementioned problems, the question rises why medical resources were being used not for the broader public good but for patients who seemed to have only little to gain from them.\nStill research is everything but sure about the irreversibility of these conditions. Some studies demonstrated that some patients suffering from disorders of consciousness may be aware despite clinical unresponsiveness. These recent findings could have a major impact on ethical and social issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "24073609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24073609", "title": "Effective selfing model", "text": "Effective selfing model\n\nThe effective selfing model is a mathematical model that describes the mating system of a plant population in terms of the degree of self-fertilisation present.\n\nIt was developed in the 1980s by Kermit Ritland, as an alternative to the simplistic mixed mating model. The mixed mating model assumes that every fertilisation event may be classed as either self-fertilisation, or outcrossing with a completely random mate. That is, it assumes that inbreeding is caused solely by self-fertilisation. This assumption is often violated in wild plant populations, where inbreeding may be due to outcrossing between closely related plants. For example, in dense stands, mating often occurs between plants in close proximity; and in plants with short seed dispersal distances, plants are often closely related to their nearest neighbours. When both these criteria are met, plants will tend to be closely related to the near neighbours with which they mate, resulting in significant inbreeding. In such a scenario, the mixed mating model will attribute all inbreeding to self-fertilisation, and therefore overestimate the extent of self-fertilisation occurring. The effective selfing model takes into account the potential for inbreeding to occur as a result of outcrossing between closely related plants, by considering the extent of kinship between mates.\n\nUltimately, it is not possible to tease apart the two potential causes of inbreeding, and attributed the observed inbreeding to one cause or the other. Therefore, just as with the mixed mating model, in the effective selfing model there is only one parameter to be estimated. However this parameter, termed the effective selfing rate, is often a more accurate measure of the proportion of self-fertilisation than the corresponding parameter in the mixed mating model.\n"}
{"id": "10274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10274", "title": "Enthalpy", "text": "Enthalpy\n\nEnthalpy , a property of a thermodynamic system, is equal to the system's internal energy plus the product of its pressure and volume. For processes at constant pressure, the heat absorbed or released equals the change in enthalpy.\n\nThe unit of measurement for enthalpy in the International System of Units (SI) is the joule. Other historical conventional units still in use include the British thermal unit (BTU) and the calorie.\n\nEnthalpy comprises a system's internal energy, which is the energy required to create the system, plus the amount of work required to make room for it by displacing its environment and establishing its volume and pressure.\n\nEnthalpy is defined as a state function that depends only on the prevailing equilibrium state identified by the system's internal energy, pressure, and volume. It is an extensive quantity.\n\nEnthalpy is the preferred expression of system energy changes in many chemical, biological, and physical measurements at constant pressure, because it simplifies the description of energy transfer. At constant pressure, the enthalpy change equals the energy transferred from the environment through heating or work other than expansion work.\n\nThe total enthalpy, \"H\", of a system cannot be measured directly. The same situation exists in classical mechanics: only a change or difference in energy carries physical meaning. Enthalpy itself is a thermodynamic potential, so in order to measure the enthalpy of a system, we must refer to a defined reference point; therefore what we measure is the change in enthalpy, Δ\"H\". The Δ\"H\" is a positive change in endothermic reactions, and negative in heat-releasing exothermic processes.\n\nFor processes under constant pressure, Δ\"H\" is equal to the change in the internal energy of the system, plus the pressure-volume work p ΔV done by the system on its surroundings (which is > 0 for an expansion and < 0 for a contraction). This means that the change in enthalpy under such conditions is the heat absorbed or released by the system through a chemical reaction or by external heat transfer. Enthalpies for chemical substances at constant pressure usually refer to standard state: most commonly 1 bar pressure. Standard state does not, strictly speaking, specify a temperature (see standard state), but expressions for enthalpy generally reference the standard heat of formation at 25 °C.\n\nEnthalpy of ideal gases and incompressible solids and liquids does not depend on pressure, unlike entropy and Gibbs energy. Real materials at common temperatures and pressures usually closely approximate this behavior, which greatly simplifies enthalpy calculation and use in practical designs and analyses.\n\nThe word \"enthalpy\" was coined relatively late, in the early 20th century, in analogy with the 19th-century terms \"energy\" (introduced in its modern sense by Thomas Young in 1802) and \"entropy\" (coined in analogy to \"energy\" by Rudolf Clausius in 1865).\nIt uses the root of Greek \"warmth, heat\" \nwhere \"energy\" has \"work\" and \"entropy\" \"transformation\", by analogy expressing the idea of \"heat-content\" where energy refers to \"work-content\" and entropy to \"transformation-content\".\nThe term does in fact stand in for the older term \"heat content\", \na term which is now mostly deprecated as misleading, as refers to the amount of heat absorbed in a process at constant pressure only, \nbut not in the general case (when pressure is variable). \nJosiah Willard Gibbs used the term \"a heat function for constant pressure\" for clarity.\n\nIntroduction of the concept of \"heat content\" is associated with Benoît Paul Émile Clapeyron and Rudolf Clausius (Clausius–Clapeyron relation, 1850).\n\nThe term \"enthalpy\" first appeared in print in 1909. It is attributed to Heike Kamerlingh Onnes, who most likely introduced it orally the year before, at the first meeting of the Institute of Refrigeration in Paris.\nIt gained currency only in the 1920s, notably with the \"Mollier Steam Tables and Diagrams\", published in 1927.\n\nUntil the 1920s, the symbol was used, somewhat inconsistently, for \"heat\" in general. \nThe definition of as strictly limited to enthalpy or \"heat content at constant pressure\" was formally proposed by Alfred W. Porter in 1922.\n\nThe enthalpy of a thermodynamic system is defined as\nwhere\nEnthalpy is an extensive property. This means that, for homogeneous systems, the enthalpy is proportional to the size of the system. It is convenient to introduce the specific enthalpy \"h\" = , where \"m\" is the mass of the system, or the molar enthalpy \"H\" = , where \"n\" is the number of moles (\"h\" and \"H\" are intensive properties). For inhomogeneous systems the enthalpy is the sum of the enthalpies of the composing subsystems:\n\nwhere the label \"k\" refers to the various subsystems. In case of continuously varying \"p\", \"T\" or composition, the summation becomes an integral:\n\nwhere \"ρ\" is the density.\n\nThe enthalpy of homogeneous systems can be viewed as function \"H\"(\"S\",\"p\") of the entropy \"S\" and the pressure \"p\", and a differential relation for it can be derived as follows. We start from the first law of thermodynamics for closed systems for an infinitesimal process:\n\nHere, \"δQ\" is a small amount of heat added to the system, and \"δW\" a small amount of work performed by the system. In a homogeneous system only reversible processes can take place, so the second law of thermodynamics gives , with \"T\" the absolute temperature of the system. Furthermore, if only \"pV\" work is done, . As a result,\n\nAdding \"d\"(\"pV\") to both sides of this expression gives\n\nor\n\nSo\n\nThe above expression of \"dH\" in terms of entropy and pressure may be unfamiliar to some readers. However, there are expressions in terms of more familiar variables such as temperature and pressure:\n\nHere \"C\" is the heat capacity at constant pressure and \"α\" is the coefficient of (cubic) thermal expansion:\n\nWith this expression one can, in principle, determine the enthalpy if \"C\" and \"V\" are known as functions of \"p\" and \"T\".\n\nNote that for an ideal gas, \"αT\" = 1, so that\n\nIn a more general form, the first law describes the internal energy with additional terms involving the chemical potential and the number of particles of various types. The differential statement for \"dH\" then becomes\n\nwhere \"μ\" is the chemical potential per particle for an \"i\"-type particle, and \"N\" is the number of such particles. The last term can also be written as (with \"dn\" the number of moles of component \"i\" added to the system and, in this case, \"μ\" the molar chemical potential) or as (with \"dm\" the mass of component \"i\" added to the system and, in this case, \"μ\" the specific chemical potential).\n\nThe \"U\" term can be interpreted as the energy required to create the system, and the \"pV\" term as the work that would be required to \"make room\" for the system if the pressure of the environment remained constant. When a system, for example, \"n\" moles of a gas of volume \"V\" at pressure \"p\" and temperature \"T\", is created or brought to its present state from absolute zero, energy must be supplied equal to its internal energy \"U\" plus \"pV\", where \"pV\" is the work done in pushing against the ambient (atmospheric) pressure.\n\nIn basic physics and statistical mechanics it may be more interesting to study the internal properties of the system and therefore the internal energy is used. In basic chemistry, experiments are often conducted at constant atmospheric pressure, and the pressure-volume work represents an energy exchange with the atmosphere that cannot be accessed or controlled, so that Δ\"H\" is the expression chosen for the heat of reaction.\n\nFor a heat engine a change in its internal energy is the difference between the heat input and the pressure-volume work done by the working substance while a change in its enthalpy is the difference between the heat input and the work done by the engine:\nwhere the work W done by the engine is: \n\nIn order to discuss the relation between the enthalpy increase and heat supply, we return to the first law for closed systems: . We apply it to the special case with a uniform pressure at the surface. In this case the work term can be split into two contributions, the so-called \"pV\" work, given by (where here \"p\" is the pressure at the surface, \"dV\" is the increase of the volume of the system) and all other types of work \"δW′\", such as by a shaft or by electromagnetic interaction. So we write . In this case the first law reads:\n\nor\n\nFrom this relation we see that the increase in enthalpy of a system is equal to the added heat:\n\nprovided that the system is under constant pressure (\"dp\" = 0) and that the only work done by the system is expansion work (\"δW\"' = 0).\n\nIn thermodynamics, one can calculate enthalpy by determining the requirements for creating a system from \"nothingness\"; the mechanical work required, \"pV\", differs based upon the conditions that obtain during the creation of the thermodynamic system.\n\nEnergy must be supplied to remove particles from the surroundings to make space for the creation of the system, assuming that the pressure \"p\" remains constant; this is the \"pV\" term. The supplied energy must also provide the change in internal energy, \"U\", which includes activation energies, ionization energies, mixing energies, vaporization energies, chemical bond energies, and so forth. Together, these constitute the change in the enthalpy \"U\" + \"pV\". For systems at constant pressure, with no external work done other than the \"pV\" work, the change in enthalpy is the heat received by the system.\n\nFor a simple system, with a constant number of particles, the difference in enthalpy is the maximum amount of thermal energy derivable from a thermodynamic process in which the pressure is held constant.\n\nThe total enthalpy of a system cannot be measured directly, the \"enthalpy change\" of a system is measured instead. Enthalpy change is defined by the following equation:\n\nwhere\n\nFor an exothermic reaction at constant pressure, the system's change in enthalpy equals the energy released in the reaction, including the energy retained in the system and lost through expansion against its surroundings. In a similar manner, for an endothermic reaction, the system's change in enthalpy is equal to the energy \"absorbed\" in the reaction, including the energy \"lost by\" the system and \"gained\" from compression from its surroundings. If Δ\"H\" is positive, the reaction is endothermic, that is heat is absorbed by the system due to the products of the reaction having a greater enthalpy than the reactants. On the other hand, if Δ\"H\" is negative, the reaction is exothermic, that is the overall decrease in enthalpy is achieved by the generation of heat.\n\nFrom the definition of enthalpy as formula_19 the enthalpy change at constant pressure formula_20 However for most chemical reactions, the work term formula_21 is much smaller than the internal energy change formula_22 which is approximately equal to formula_23 As an example, for the combustion of carbon monoxide 2 CO(g) + O(g) → 2 CO(g), formula_24 = –566.0 kJ and formula_22 = –563.5 kJ. Since the differences are so small, reaction enthalpies are often loosely described as reaction energies and analyzed in terms of bond energies.\n\nThe specific enthalpy of a uniform system is defined as \"h\" = where \"m\" is the mass of the system. The SI unit for specific enthalpy is joule per kilogram. It can be expressed in other specific quantities by , where \"u\" is the specific internal energy, \"p\" is the pressure, and \"v\" is specific volume, which is equal to , where \"ρ\" is the density.\n\nAn enthalpy change describes the change in enthalpy observed in the constituents of a thermodynamic system when undergoing a transformation or chemical reaction. It is the difference between the enthalpy after the process has completed, i.e. the enthalpy of the products, and the initial enthalpy of the system, i.e. the reactants. These processes are reversible and the enthalpy for the reverse process is the negative value of the forward change.\n\nA common standard enthalpy change is the enthalpy of formation, which has been determined for a large number of substances. Enthalpy changes are routinely measured and compiled in chemical and physical reference works, such as the CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics. The following is a selection of enthalpy changes commonly recognized in thermodynamics.\n\nWhen used in these recognized terms the qualifier \"change\" is usually dropped and the property is simply termed \"enthalpy of 'process\"'. Since these properties are often used as reference values it is very common to quote them for a standardized set of environmental parameters, or standard conditions, including: \nFor such standardized values the name of the enthalpy is commonly prefixed with the term \"standard\", e.g. \"standard enthalpy of formation\".\n\nChemical properties:\n\nPhysical properties:\n\nIn thermodynamic open systems, matter may flow in and out of the system boundaries. The first law of thermodynamics for open systems states: The increase in the internal energy of a system is equal to the amount of energy added to the system by matter flowing in and by heating, minus the amount lost by matter flowing out and in the form of work done by the system:\n\nwhere \"U\" is the average internal energy entering the system, and \"U\" is the average internal energy leaving the system.\n\nThe region of space enclosed by the boundaries of the open system is usually called a control volume, and it may or may not correspond to physical walls. If we choose the shape of the control volume such that all flow in or out occurs perpendicular to its surface, then the flow of matter into the system performs work as if it were a piston of fluid pushing mass into the system, and the system performs work on the flow of matter out as if it were driving a piston of fluid. There are then two types of work performed: \"flow work\" described above, which is performed on the fluid (this is also often called \"pV work\"), and \"shaft work\", which may be performed on some mechanical device.\n\nThese two types of work are expressed in the equation\n\nSubstitution into the equation above for the control volume (cv) yields:\n\nThe definition of enthalpy, \"H\", permits us to use this thermodynamic potential to account for both internal energy and \"pV\" work in fluids for open systems:\n\nIf we allow also the system boundary to move (e.g. due to moving pistons), we get a rather general form of the first law for open systems. In terms of time derivatives it reads:\n\nwith sums over the various places \"k\" where heat is supplied, matter flows into the system, and boundaries are moving. The \"Ḣ\" terms represent enthalpy flows, which can be written as\n\nwith \"ṁ\" the mass flow and \"ṅ\" the molar flow at position \"k\" respectively. The term represents the rate of change of the system volume at position \"k\" that results in \"pV\" power done by the system. The parameter \"P\" represents all other forms of power done by the system such as shaft power, but it can also be e.g. electric power produced by an electrical power plant.\n\nNote that the previous expression holds true only if the kinetic energy flow rate is conserved between system inlet and outlet. Otherwise, it has to be included in the enthalpy balance. During steady-state operation of a device (\"see turbine, pump, and engine\"), the average may be set equal to zero. This yields a useful expression for the average power generation for these devices in the absence of chemical reactions:\n\nwhere the angle brackets denote time averages. The technical importance of the enthalpy is directly related to its presence in the first law for open systems, as formulated above.\n\nThe enthalpy values of important substances can be obtained using commercial software. Practically all relevant material properties can be obtained either in tabular or in graphical form. There are many types of diagrams, such as \"h\"–\"T\" diagrams, which give the specific enthalpy as function of temperature for various pressures, and \"h\"–\"p\" diagrams, which give \"h\" as function of \"p\" for various \"T\". One of the most common diagrams is the temperature–specific entropy diagram (\"T\"–\"s\"-diagram). It gives the melting curve and saturated liquid and vapor values together with isobars and isenthalps. These diagrams are powerful tools in the hands of the thermal engineer.\n\nThe points a through h in the figure play a role in the discussion in this section.\n\nOne of the simple applications of the concept of enthalpy is the so-called throttling process, also known as Joule-Thomson expansion. It concerns a steady adiabatic flow of a fluid through a flow resistance (valve, porous plug, or any other type of flow resistance) as shown in the figure. This process is very important, since it is at the heart of domestic refrigerators, where it is responsible for the temperature drop between ambient temperature and the interior of the refrigerator. It is also the final stage in many types of liquefiers.\n\nFor a steady state flow regime, the enthalpy of the system (dotted rectangle) has to be constant. Hence\n\nSince the mass flow is constant, the specific enthalpies at the two sides of the flow resistance are the same:\n\nthat is, the enthalpy per unit mass does not change during the throttling. The consequences of this relation can be demonstrated using the \"T\"–\"s\" diagram above. Point c is at 200 bar and room temperature (300 K). A Joule–Thomson expansion from 200 bar to 1 bar follows a curve of constant enthalpy of roughly 425 kJ/kg (not shown in the diagram) lying between the 400 and 450 kJ/kg isenthalps and ends in point d, which is at a temperature of about 270 K. Hence the expansion from 200 bar to 1 bar cools nitrogen from 300 K to 270 K. In the valve, there is a lot of friction, and a lot of entropy is produced, but still the final temperature is below the starting value!\n\nPoint e is chosen so that it is on the saturated liquid line with . It corresponds roughly with and . Throttling from this point to a pressure of 1 bar ends in the two-phase region (point f). This means that a mixture of gas and liquid leaves the throttling valve. Since the enthalpy is an extensive parameter, the enthalpy in f (\"h\") is equal to the enthalpy in g (\"h\") multiplied by the liquid fraction in f (\"x\") plus the enthalpy in h (\"h\") multiplied by the gas fraction in f . So\n\nWith numbers: , so \"x\" = 0.64. This means that the mass fraction of the liquid in the liquid–gas mixture that leaves the throttling valve is 64%.\n\nA power \"P\" is applied e.g. as electrical power. If the compression is adiabatic, the gas temperature goes up. In the reversible case it would be at constant entropy, which corresponds with a vertical line in the \"T\"–\"s\" diagram. For example, compressing nitrogen from 1 bar (point a) to 2 bar (point b) would result in a temperature increase from 300 K to 380 K. In order to let the compressed gas exit at ambient temperature \"T\", heat exchange, e.g. by cooling water, is necessary. In the ideal case the compression is isothermal. The average heat flow to the surroundings is \"Q̇\". Since the system is in the steady state the first law gives\n\nThe minimal power needed for the compression is realized if the compression is reversible. In that case the second law of thermodynamics for open systems gives\n\nEliminating \"Q̇\" gives for the minimal power\n\nFor example, compressing 1 kg of nitrogen from 1 bar to 200 bar costs at least . With the data, obtained with the \"T\"–\"s\" diagram, we find a value of 476 kJ/kg.\n\nThe relation for the power can be further simplified by writing it as\n\nWith , this results in the final relation\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42176", "title": "Entity", "text": "Entity\n\nAn entity is something that exists as itself, as a subject or as an object, actually or potentially, concretely or abstractly, physically or not. It need not be of material existence. In particular, abstractions and legal fictions are usually regarded as entities. In general, there is also no presumption that an entity is animate, or present.\n\nThe word is abstract in intention. It may refer, for example, to Bucephalus, the horse of Alexander; to a stone; to a cardinal number; to a language; or to ghosts or other spirits.\n\nThe word \"entitative\" is the adjective form of the noun entity. Something that is entitative is considered in its own right.\n\nOntology is the study of being, existence and the recognition of entities. The words ontic and entity are derived respectively from the ancient Greek and Latin present participles that mean \"being\".\n\nIn law, a legal entity is an entity that is capable of bearing legal rights and obligations, such as a natural person or an artificial person (e.g. business entity or a corporate entity).\n\nIn politics, \"entity\" is used as term for territorial divisions of some countries (e.g. Bosnia and Herzegovina).\n\nIn medicine, a disease entity is an illness due to a particular definite cause or to a specific pathological process. While a disease entity is not defined by a syndrome, it may or may not be manifest in one or more particular syndromes. \n\n"}
{"id": "23257036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23257036", "title": "Environmental virtue ethics", "text": "Environmental virtue ethics\n\nEnvironmental virtue ethics (EVE) is, as the name suggests, a way of approaching environmental ethics through the lens of virtue ethics. It is paradoxically both a very new and a relatively old or established approach. It is old or established because, as Louke Van Wensveen points out, almost all environmental literature employs virtue language. It is new because it is only recently that this tendency to use virtue-laden language has been taken up explicitly and addressed through the lens of philosophical virtue ethics.\n\nEarly interest in applying virtue theory to environmental problems can be found in disparate articles in academic and environmental journals, such as Thomas Hill's \"Ideals of Human Excellence and Preserving Natural Environments.\" The first major analysis of this approach is Louke Van Wensveen’s influential book \"Dirty Virtues: The Emergence of Ecological Virtue Ethics\".\n\nEnvironmental virtue ethicists take inspiration for a variety of schools of virtue ethics and from diverse backgrounds in environmental ethics. Nevertheless, there are three general approaches to identifying virtues and vices within EVE. First, the \"virtue theory approach,\" which attempts to build an environmental virtue ethics from the ground up. Second, the \"environmental exemplar approach,\" which looks to people who are generally considered to be environmentally virtuous as models. And, finally, the \"extensionist approach,\" which takes traditional virtues and extends them to operate in an environmentally meaningful way. While some authors take one of these approaches, others combine elements from two or more. \n\nTypical EVE topics include: the explication of specific virtues or vices; the analysis of specific exemplars who embody one or more of the virtues; the attempt to weigh in on specific environmental problems from the perspective of virtue ethics, including offering rules (“v-rules”) for conduct or making actual policy recommendations; and, of course, arguing for the theoretical foundation and legitimacy of the virtue-theory approach to environmental ethics. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "604771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604771", "title": "Ergative–absolutive language", "text": "Ergative–absolutive language\n\nErgative–absolutive languages, or ergative languages are languages that share a certain distinctive pattern relating to the subjects (technically, arguments) of verbs. Examples are Basque, Georgian, Mayan, Tibetan and several Indo-European languages, such as the Kurdish languages including Gorani. \n\nIn an ergative language, the single argument (\"subject\") of an intransitive verb behaves like the object of a transitive verb, and differently from the agent of a transitive verb.\n\nThat is in contrast to nominative–accusative languages, such as English and most other Indo-European languages, where the single argument of an intransitive verb (\"She\" in the sentence \"She walks.\") behaves grammatically like the agent of a transitive verb (\"She\" in the sentence \"She finds it.\") but differently from the object of a transitive verb (\"him\" in the sentence \"She likes him.\").\n\nIn ergative–absolutive languages with grammatical case, the case used for the single argument of an intransitive verb and the object of a transitive verb is the absolutive, and the case used for the agent of a transitive verb is the ergative. In nominative–accusative languages, the case for the single argument of an intransitive verb and the agent of a transitive verb is the nominative while the case for the direct object of a transitive verb is the accusative. \n\nThere is a variant group, the ergative-accusative languages (such as Dyirbal), which function ergatively with respect to nouns but are nominative-accusative with pronouns.\n\nAn ergative language maintains a syntactic or morphological equivalence (such as the same word order or grammatical case) for the object of a transitive verb and the single core argument of an intransitive verb, while treating the agent of a transitive verb differently.\n\nThis contrasts with nominative–accusative languages such as English, where the single argument of an intransitive verb and the agent of a transitive verb (both called the subject) are treated alike and kept distinct from the object of a transitive verb.\n\nThese different arguments are usually symbolized as follows:\n\nThe relationship between ergative and accusative systems can be schematically represented as the following:\n\n\"See morphosyntactic alignment for a more technical explanation and a comparison with nominative–accusative languages.\"\n\nNote that the word \"subject\", as it is typically defined in grammars of nominative–accusative languages, has a different application when referring to ergative–absolutive languages, or when discussing morphosyntactic alignment in general.\n\nErgative languages tend to be either verb-final or verb-initial; there are few, if any, ergative SVO-languages.\n\nErgativity can be found in both morphological and syntactic behavior.\n\nIf the language has morphological case, then the verb arguments are marked thus:\n\nIf there is no case marking, ergativity can be marked through other means, such as in verbal morphology. For instance, Abkhaz and most Mayan languages have no morphological ergative case, but they have a verbal agreement structure that is ergative. In languages with ergative–absolutive agreement systems, the absolutive form is usually the most unmarked form of a word (exceptions include Nias and Tlapanec).\n\nThe following examples from Basque demonstrate an ergative–absolutive case marking system:\n\nHere \"-Ø\" represents a zero morpheme, as the absolutive case is unmarked in Basque. The forms for the ergative are \"-k\" after a vowel, and \"-ek\" after a consonant. It is a further rule in Basque grammar that in most cases a noun phrase must be closed by a determiner. The default determiner (commonly called the article, which is suffixed to common nouns and usually translatable by \"the\" in English) is \"-a\" in the singular and \"-ak\" in the plural, the plural being marked only on the determiner and never the noun. For common nouns, this default determiner is fused with the ergative case marker. Thus one obtains the following forms for \"gizon\" (\"man\" in English): gizon-a (man-the.sing.abs), gizon-ak (man-the.pl.abs), gizon-ak (man-the.sing.erg), gizon-ek (man-the.pl.erg). Note that when fused with the article, the absolutive plural is homophonous with the ergative singular. See Basque grammar for details.\n\nIn contrast, Japanese is a nominative–accusative language:\n\nIn this language, the argument of the intransitive and agent of the transitive sentence are marked with the same nominative case particle \"ga\", while the object of the transitive sentence is marked with the accusative case o.\n\nIf one sets: A = agent of a transitive verb; S = argument of an intransitive verb; O = object of a transitive verb, then we can contrast normal nominative–accusative English with a hypothetical ergative English:\n\nAccusative English:\n\nHypothetical ergative English:\n\nA number of languages have both ergative and accusative morphology. A typical example is a language that has nominative–accusative marking on verbs and ergative–absolutive case marking on nouns.\n\nGeorgian also has an ergative alignment, but the agent is only marked with the ergative case in the perfective aspect (also known as the \"aorist screeve\"). Compare:\n\n\"K'ac'-\" is the root of the word \"man\". In the first sentence (present continuous tense) the agent is in the nominative case \"(k'ac'i).\" In the second sentence, which shows ergative alignment, the root is marked with the ergative suffix \"-ma\".\n\nHowever, there are some intransitive verbs in Georgian that behave like transitive verbs, and therefore employ the ergative case in the past tense. Consider:\n\nAlthough the verb \"sneeze\" is clearly intransitive, it is conjugated like a transitive verb. In Georgian there are a few verbs like these, and there has not been a clear-cut explanation as to why these verbs have evolved this way. One explanation is that verbs such as \"sneeze\" used to have a direct object (the object being \"nose\" in the case of \"sneeze\") and over time lost these objects, yet kept their transitive behavior.\n\nErgativity may be manifested through syntax, such as saying “Arrived I” for “I arrived”, in addition to morphology. Syntactic ergativity is quite rare, and while all languages that exhibit it also feature morphological ergativity, few morphologically ergative languages have ergative syntax. As with morphology, syntactic ergativity can be placed on a continuum, whereby certain syntactic operations may pattern accusatively and others ergatively. The degree of syntactic ergativity is then dependent on the number of syntactic operations that treat the subject like the object. Syntactic ergativity is also referred to as inter-clausal ergativity, as it typically appears in the relation of two clauses.\n\nSyntactic ergativity may appear in:\n\nExample of syntactic ergativity in the \"conjunction reduction\" construction (coordinated clauses) in Dyirbal in contrast with English conjunction reduction. (The subscript (i) indicates coreference.)\n\nEnglish (SVO word order):\n\nDyirbal (OSV word order):\n\nThe term \"ergative–absolutive\" is considered unsatisfactory by some, since there are very few languages without any patterns that exhibit nominative–accusative alignment. Instead they posit that one should only speak of \"ergative–absolutive systems\", which languages employ to different degrees.\n\nMany languages classified as ergative in fact show split ergativity, whereby syntactic and/or morphological ergative patterns are conditioned by the grammatical context, typically person or the tense/aspect of the verb. Basque is unusual in having an almost fully ergative system in case-marking and verbal agreement, though it shows thoroughly nominative–accusative syntactic alignment.\n\nIn Urdu and Hindi, the ergative case is marked on agents in the preterite and perfect tenses for transitive and ditransitive verbs, while in other situations agents appear in the nominative case.\n\nIn the Northern Kurdish language Kurmanji, the ergative case is marked on agents and verbs of transitive verbs in past tenses, for the events actually occurred in the past. Present, future and \"future in the past\" tenses show no ergative mark neither for agents nor the verbs. For example:\n\nbut:\n\nIn sentences (1) to (4), there is no ergativity (transitive and intransitive verbs alike). In sentences (6) and (8), the ergative case is marked on agents and verbs. \n\nIn Dyirbal, pronouns are morphologically nominative–accusative when the agent is first or second person, but ergative when the agent is a third person.\n\nMany languages with ergative marking display what is known as \"optional ergativity\", where the ergative marking is not always expressed in all situations. McGregor (2010) gives a range of contexts when we often see optional ergativity, and argues that the choice is often not truly \"optional\" but is affected by semantics and pragmatics. Note that unlike split ergativity, which occurs regularly but in limited locations, optional ergativity can occur in a range of environments, but may not be used in a way that appears regular or consistent.\n\nOptional ergativity may be motivated by:\n\nLanguages from Australia, New Guinea and Tibet have been shown to have optional ergativity.\n\nPrototypical ergative languages are, for the most part, restricted to specific regions of world: the Mesopotamia (Kurdish), Caucasus, the Americas, the Tibetan Plateau, and Australia and parts of New Guinea.\n\nSome specific languages are the following:\n\nAmericas\n\nAfrica\n\nAsia\n\nAustralian\nCertain Australian Aboriginal languages (e.g., Wangkumara) possess an intransitive case and an accusative case along with an ergative case, and lack an absolutive case; such languages are called ergative–accusative languages or tripartite languages.\n\nPapua\n\n\nEurope\n\nNear East (Caucasus and Mesopotamia)\n\nSign languages −− (for example, Nepali Sign Language) should also generally be considered ergative in the patterning of actant incorporation in verbs. In sign languages that have been studied, classifier handshapes are incorporated into verbs, indicating the subject of intransitive verbs when incorporated, and the object of transitive verbs. (If we follow the \"Semantic Phonology\" model proposed by William Stokoe (1991) this ergative-absolutive patterning also works at the level of the lexicon: thus in Nepali Sign Language the sign for TEA has the motion for the verb DRINK with a manual alphabet handshape च /ca/ (standing for the first letter of the Nepali word TEA चिया /chiya:/) being incorporated as the object.)\n\nMany other languages have limited ergativity. In both Pashto and Hindi (Indo-Iranian), ergative behavior occurs only in the preterite and perfect tenses, and in the Georgian, ergativity only occurs in the perfective.\n\nThe Philippine languages (e.g., Tagalog) are sometimes considered ergative (Schachter 1976, 1977; Kroeger 1993), however they have also been considered to have their own unique morphosyntactic alignment. See Austronesian alignment.\n\nSeveral scholars have hypothesized that Proto-Indo-European was an ergative language. However, this hypothesis is disputed.\n\nEnglish has derivational morphology that parallels ergativity in that it operates on intransitive verbs and objects of transitive verbs. With certain intransitive verbs, adding the suffix \"-ee\" to the verb produces a label for the person performing the action:\n\nHowever, with a transitive verb, adding \"-ee\" does not produce a label for the person doing the action. Instead, it gives us a label for the person to whom the action is done:\n\nEtymologically, the sense in which \"-ee\" denotes the object of a transitive verb is the original one, arising from French past participles in \"-é\". This is still the prevalent sense in British English: the intransitive uses are all 19th-century American coinages and all except \"escapee\" are still marked as \"chiefly U.S.\" by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\".\n\nEnglish also has a number of so-called ergative verbs, where the object of the verb when transitive is equivalent to the subject of the verb when intransitive.\n\nWhen English nominalizes a clause, the underlying subject of an intransitive verb and the underlying object of a transitive verb are both marked with the possessive case or with the preposition \"of\" (the choice depends on the type and length of the noun: pronouns and short nouns are typically marked with the possessive, while long and complex NPs are marked with \"of\"). The underlying subject of a transitive is marked differently (typically with \"by\" as in a passive construction):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9649605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9649605", "title": "Event correlation", "text": "Event correlation\n\nEvent correlation is a technique for making sense of a large number of events and pinpointing the few events that are really important in that mass of information. This is accomplished by looking for and analyzing relationships between events.\n\nEvent correlation has been used in various fields for many years:\n\nIntegrated management is traditionally subdivided into various fields:\n\nEvent correlation takes place in different components depending on the field of study:\n\nIn this article, we focus on event correlation in integrated management and provide links to other fields.\n\nThe goal of \"integrated management\" is to integrate the management of networks (data, telephone and multimedia), systems (servers, databases and applications) and IT services in a coherent manner. The scope of this discipline notably includes network management, systems management and Service-Level Management.\n\nEvent correlation usually takes place inside one or several management platforms. It is implemented by a piece of software known as the event correlator. This component is automatically fed with events originating from managed elements (applications, devices), monitoring tools, the Trouble Ticket System, etc. Each event captures something special (from the event source standpoint) that happened in the domain of interest to the event correlator, which will vary depending upon the type of analysis the correlator is attempting to perform.\n\nThe event correlator plays a key role in integrated management, for only within it do events from many disparate sources come together and allow for comparison across sources. For instance, this is where the failure of a service can be ascribed to a specific failure in the underlying IT infrastructure, or where the root cause of a potential security attack can be identified.\n\nMost event correlators can receive events from trouble ticket systems. However, only some of them are able to notify trouble ticket systems when a problem is solved, which partly explains the difficulty for Service Desks to keep updated with the latest news. In theory, the integration of management in organizations requires the communication between the event correlator and the trouble ticket system to work both ways.\n\nAn event may convey an alarm or report an incident (which explains why event correlation used to be called alarm correlation), but not necessarily. It may also report that a situation goes back to normal, or simply send some information that it deems relevant (e.g., policy P has been updated on device D). The severity of the event is an indication given by the event source to the event destination of the priority that this event should be given while being processed.\n\nEvent correlation can be decomposed into four steps: event filtering, event aggregation, event masking and root cause analysis. A fifth step (action triggering) is often associated with event correlation and therefore briefly mentioned here.\n\nEvent filtering consists in discarding events that are deemed to be irrelevant by the event correlator. For instance, a number of bottom-of-the-range devices are difficult to configure and occasionally send events of no interest to the management platform (e.g., printer P needs A4 paper in tray 1). Another example is the filtering of informational or debugging events by an event correlator that is only interested in availability and faults.\n\nEvent aggregation is a technique where multiple events that are very similar (but not necessarily identical) are combined into an aggregate that represents the underlying event data. Its main objective is to summarize a collection of input events into a smaller collection that can be processed using various analytics methods. For example, the aggregate may provide statistical summaries of the underlying events and the resources that are affected by those events. Another example is temporal aggregation, when the same problem is reported over and over again by the event source, until the problem is finally solved.\n\nEvent de-duplication is a special type of event aggregation that consists in merging exact duplicates of the same event. Such duplicates may be caused by network instability (e.g., the same event is sent twice by the event source because the first instance was not acknowledged sufficiently quickly, but both instances eventually reach the event destination).\n\nEvent masking (also known as \"topological masking\" in network management) consists of ignoring events pertaining to systems that are downstream of a failed system. For example, servers that are downstream of a crashed router will fail availability polling.\n\nRoot cause analysis is the last and most complex step of event correlation. It consists of analyzing dependencies between events, based for instance on a model of the environment and dependency graphs, to detect whether some events can be explained by others. For example, if database D runs on server S and this server gets durably overloaded (CPU used at 100% for a long time), the event “the SLA for database D is no longer fulfilled” can be explained by the event “Server S is durably overloaded”.\n\nAt this stage, the event correlator is left with at most a handful of events that need to be acted upon. Strictly speaking, event correlation ends here. However, by language abuse, the event correlators found on the market (e.g., in network management) sometimes also include problem-solving capabilities. For instance, they may trigger corrective actions or further investigations automatically.\n\nThe scope of ITIL (the \"Information Technology Infrastructure Library\") is larger than that of integrated management. However, event correlation in ITIL is quite similar to event correlation in integrated management.\n\nIn the ITIL version 2 framework, event correlation spans three processes: Incident Management, Problem Management and Service Level Management.\n\nIn the ITIL version 3 framework, event correlation takes place in the Event Management process. The event correlator is called a \"correlation engine\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3096587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3096587", "title": "Flooding (psychology)", "text": "Flooding (psychology)\n\nFlooding, sometimes referred to as in vivo exposure therapy, is a form of behavior therapy and desensitization—or exposure therapy—based on the principles of respondent conditioning. As a psychotherapeutic technique, it is used to treat phobia and anxiety disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder. It works by exposing the patient to their painful memories, with the goal of reintegrating their repressed emotions with their current awareness. Flooding was invented by psychologist Thomas Stampfl in 1967. It is still used in behavior therapy today.\n\nFlooding is a psychotherapeutic method for overcoming phobias. This is a faster method of ridding fears when compared with systematic desensitization. In order to demonstrate the irrationality of the fear, a psychologist would put a person in a situation where they would face their phobia at its worst. Under controlled conditions and using psychologically-proven relaxation techniques, the subject attempts to replace their fear with relaxation. The experience can often be traumatic for a person, but may be necessary if the phobia is causing them significant life disturbances. The advantage to flooding is that it is quick and usually effective. There is, however, a possibility that a fear may spontaneously recur. This can be made less likely with systematic desensitization, another form of a classical condition procedure for the elimination of phobias.\n\n\"Flooding\" is an effective form of treatment for phobias amongst other psychopathologies. It works on the principles of classical conditioning or respondent conditioning—a form of Pavlov's classical conditioning—where patients change their behaviors to avoid negative stimuli. According to Pavlov, people learn through associations, so if one has a phobia, it is because one associates the feared stimulus with a negative outcome.\n\nFlooding uses a technique based on Pavlov's classical conditioning that uses exposure. There are different forms of exposure, such as imaginal exposure, virtual reality exposure, and in vivo exposure. While systematic desensitization may use these other types of exposure, flooding uses in vivo exposure, actual exposure to the feared stimulus. A patient is confronted with a situation in which the stimulus that provoked the original trauma is present. The psychologist there usually offers very little assistance or reassurance other than to help the patient to use relaxation techniques in order to calm themselves. Relaxation techniques such as progressive muscle relaxation are common in these kinds of classical conditioning procedures. The theory is that the adrenaline and fear response has a time limit, so a person should eventually have to calm down and realize that their phobia is unwarranted. Flooding can be done through the use of virtual reality and is fairly effective.\n\nPsychiatrist Joseph Wolpe (1973) carried out an experiment which demonstrated flooding. He took a girl who was scared of cars, and drove her around for hours. Initially the girl was hysterical but she eventually calmed down when she realized that her situation was safe. From then on she associated a sense of ease with cars. Psychologist Aletha Solter used flooding successfully with a 5-month-old infant who showed symptoms of post-traumatic stress following surgery. \n\nFlooding therapy is not for every individual, and the therapist will discuss with the patient the levels of anxiety they are prepared to endure during the session. It may also be true that exposure is not for every therapist and therapists seem to shy away from use of the technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "527453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=527453", "title": "Flowchart", "text": "Flowchart\n\nA flowchart is a type of diagram that represents an algorithm, workflow or process. The flowchart shows the steps as boxes of various kinds, and their order by connecting the boxes with arrows. This diagrammatic representation illustrates a solution model to a given problem. Flowcharts are used in analyzing, designing, documenting or managing a process or program in various fields.\n\nFlowcharts are used in designing and documenting simple processes or programs. Like other types of diagrams, they help visualize what is going on and thereby help understand a process, and perhaps also find less-obvious features within the process, like flaws and bottlenecks. There are different types of flowcharts: each type has its own set of boxes and notations. The two most common types of boxes in a flowchart are:\n\nA flowchart is described as \"cross-functional\" when the chart is divided into different vertical or horizontal parts, to describe the control of different organizational units. A symbol appearing in a particular part is within the control of that organizational unit. A cross-functional flowchart allows the author to correctly locate the responsibility for performing an action or making a decision, and to show the responsibility of each organizational unit for different parts of a single process.\n\nFlowcharts depict certain aspects of processes and are usually complemented by other types of diagram. For instance, Kaoru Ishikawa defined the flowchart as one of the seven basic tools of quality control, next to the histogram, Pareto chart, check sheet, control chart, cause-and-effect diagram, and the scatter diagram. Similarly, in UML, a standard concept-modeling notation used in software development, the activity diagram, which is a type of flowchart, is just one of many different diagram types.\n\nNassi-Shneiderman diagrams and Drakon-charts are an alternative notation for process flow.\n\nCommon alternative names include: flow chart, process flowchart, functional flowchart, process map, process chart, functional process chart, business process model, process model, process flow diagram, work flow diagram, business flow diagram. The terms \"flowchart\" and \"flow chart\" are used interchangeably.\n\nThe underlying graph structure of a flowchart is a flow graph, which abstracts away node types, their contents and other ancillary information.\n\nThe first structured method for documenting process flow, the \"flow process chart\", was introduced by Frank and Lillian Gilbreth in the presentation \"Process Charts: First Steps in Finding the One Best Way to do Work\", to members of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) in 1921. The Gilbreths' tools quickly found their way into industrial engineering curricula. In the early 1930s, an industrial engineer, Allan H. Mogensen began to train business people in the use of some of the tools of industrial engineering at his Work Simplification Conferences in Lake Placid, New York.\n\nArt Spinanger, a 1944 graduate of Mogensen's class, took the tools back to Procter and Gamble where he developed their Deliberate Methods Change Program. Ben S. Graham, another 1944 graduate, Director of Formcraft Engineering at Standard Register Industrial, applied the flow process chart to information processing with his development of the multi-flow process chart, to present multiple documents and their relationships. In 1947, ASME adopted a symbol set derived from Gilbreth's original work as the \"ASME Standard: Operation and Flow Process Charts.\"\n\nDouglas Hartree in 1949 explained that Herman Goldstine and John von Neumann had developed a flowchart (originally, diagram) to plan computer programs. His contemporary account was endorsed by IBM engineers and by Goldstine's personal recollections. The original programming flowcharts of Goldstine and von Neumann can be found in their unpublished report, \"Planning and coding of problems for an electronic computing instrument, Part II, Volume 1\" (1947), which is reproduced in von Neumann's collected works.\n\nThe flowchart became a popular tool for describing computer algorithms, but its popularity decreased in the 1970s, when interactive computer terminals and third-generation programming languages became common tools for computer programming, since algorithms can be expressed more concisely as source code in such languages. Often pseudo-code is used, which uses the common idioms of such languages without strictly adhering to the details of a particular one.\n\nNowadays flowcharts are still used for describing computer algorithms. Modern techniques such as UML activity diagrams and Drakon-charts can be considered to be extensions of the flowchart.\n\nSterneckert (2003) suggested that flowcharts can be modeled from the perspective of different user groups (such as managers, system analysts and clerks), and that there are four general types: \nNotice that every type of flowchart focuses on some kind of control, rather than on the particular flow itself.\n\nHowever, there are some different classifications. For example, Andrew Veronis (1978) named three basic types of flowcharts: the \"system flowchart\", the \"general flowchart\", and the \"detailed flowchart\". That same year Marilyn Bohl (1978) stated \"in practice, two kinds of flowcharts are used in solution planning: \"system flowcharts\" and \"program flowcharts\"...\". More recently, Mark A. Fryman (2001) identified more differences: \"Decision flowcharts, logic flowcharts, systems flowcharts, product flowcharts, and process flowcharts are just a few of the different types of flowcharts that are used in business and government\".\n\nIn addition, many diagram techniques are similar to flowcharts but carry a different name, such as UML activity diagrams.\n\nThe American National Standards Institute (ANSI) set standards for flowcharts and their symbols in the 1960s. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) adopted the ANSI symbols in 1970. The current standard was revised in 1985. Generally, flowcharts flow from top to bottom and left to right.\n\nThe ANSI/ISO standards include symbols beyond the basic shapes. Some are:\n\n\nFor parallel and concurrent processing the \"Parallel Mode\" horizontal lines or a horizontal bar indicate the start or end of a section of processes that can be done independently:\n\nAny drawing program can be used to create flowchart diagrams, but these will have no underlying data model to share data with databases or other programs such as project management systems or spreadsheet. Some tools such as yEd, Inkscape and Microsoft Visio offer special support for flowchart drawing. Many software packages exist that can create flowcharts automatically, either directly from a programming language source code, or from a flowchart description language.\n\nThere are several applications and visual programming languages that use flowcharts to represent and execute programs. Generally these are used as teaching tools for beginner students. Examples include Flowgorithm, Raptor. LARP, Visual Logic, and VisiRule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48994134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48994134", "title": "Fractal string", "text": "Fractal string\n\nAn \"ordinary fractal string\" formula_1 is a bounded, open subset of the real number line. Any such subset can be written as an at-most-countable union of connected open intervals with associated lengths formula_2 written in non-increasing order. We allow formula_1 to consist of finitely many open intervals, in which case formula_4 consists of finitely many lengths. We refer to formula_4 as a \"fractal string\".\n\nThe middle third's Cantor set is constructed by removing the middle third from the unit interval formula_6, then removing the middle thirds of the subsequent intervals, \"ad infinitum\". The deleted intervals formula_7 have corresponding lengths formula_8. Inductively, we can show that there are formula_9 intervals corresponding to each length of formula_10. Thus, we say that the \"multiplicity\" of the length formula_11 is formula_12.\n\nThe geometric information of the Cantor set in the example above is contained in the ordinary fractal string formula_4. From this information we can compute the box-counting dimension of the Cantor set. This notion of fractal dimension can be generalized to that of complex dimension, which will give us complete geometrical information regarding the local oscillations in the geometry of the Cantor set.\n\nIf formula_14 we say that formula_15 has a geometric realization in formula_16 formula_17, where the formula_18 are intervals in formula_19, of all the lengths formula_20, taken with multiplicity.\n\nFor each fractal string formula_4, we can associate to formula_4 a geometric zeta function formula_23 defined as the Dirichlet series formula_24. Poles of the geometric zeta function formula_25 are called complex dimensions of the fractal string formula_4. The general philosophy of the theory of complex dimensions for fractal strings is that complex dimensions describe the intrinsic oscillation in the geometry, spectra and dynamics of the fractal string formula_4. \n\nThe abscissa of convergence of formula_28 is defined as formula_29.\n\nFor a fractal string formula_4 with infinitely many nonzero lengths, the abscissa of convergence formula_31 coincides with the Minkowski dimension of the boundary of the string, formula_32. For our example, the boundary Cantor string is the Cantor set itself. So the abscissa of convergence of the geometric zeta function formula_33 is the Minkowski dimension of the Cantor set, which is formula_34.\n\nFor a fractal string formula_4, composed of an infinite sequence of lengths, the \"complex dimensions\" of the fractal string are the poles of the analytic continuation of the geometric zeta function associated with the fractal string. (When the analytic continuation of a geometric zeta function is not defined to all of the complex plane, we take a subset of the complex plane called the \"window\", and look for the \"visible\" complex dimensions that exist within that window.)\n\nContinuing with the example of the fractal string associated to the middle thirds Cantor set, we compute formula_36. We compute the abscissa of convergence to be the value of formula_37 satisfying formula_38, so that formula_39 is the Minkowski dimension of the Cantor set.\n\nFor complex formula_37, formula_41 has poles at the infinitely many solutions of formula_38, which, for this example, occur at formula_43, for all integers formula_44. This collection of points is called the set of complex dimensions of the middle thirds Cantor set.\n\nFor fractal strings associated with sets like Cantor sets, formed from deleted intervals that are rational powers of a fundamental length, the complex dimensions appear in a regular, arithmetic progression parallel to the imaginary axis, and are called \"lattice\" fractal strings. Sets that do not have this property are called \"non-lattice\". There is a dichotomy in the theory of measures of such objects: an ordinary fractal string is Minkowski measurable if and only if it is non-lattice.\n\nIn, the existence of non-real complex dimensions with positive real part are proposed to be the signature feature of fractal objects. Formally in, Michel Lapidus and Machiel van Frankenhuijsen propose to define “fractality” as the presence of at least one nonreal complex dimension with positive real part. This new definition of fractality solves some old problems in Fractal Geometry. For example, everyone can agree that the Cantor's Devil Staircase is fractal, which it is with this new definition of fractality in terms of complex dimensions, but it is not in the sense of Mandelbrot. \n\nA Spectral Reformulation of the Riemann Hypothesis by Michel Lapidus and Helmut Maier\n\nFollowing the examples of the a-string and of the ordinary Cantor string given by Michel Lapidus in the 1990s,\nthe notion of a fractal string was conceived and defined by Michel Lapidus and Carl Pomerance in their investigation of the one-dimensional Weyl-Berry conjecture for fractal drums and its connection with the Riemann zeta function ~\\cite{LapPo}.\nThe Riemann hypothesis turned out to be equivalent to the solvability of the corresponding inverse spectral problem for fractal strings, as was established by Michel Lapidus and Helmut Maier in ~\\cite{LapMa}.\nThe heuristic notion of complex dimensions then started to emerge and was used in a crucial way in their spectral reformulation of the Riemann hypothesis.\nThe precise notion of complex dimensions, defined as the poles of the geometric zeta function associated with the fractal string, was crystallized and rigorously developed by Michel Lapidus and Machiel van Frankenhuijsen in the research monograph Fractal Geometry and Number Theory \\cite{L-vF1} and then significantly further extended in the book\nFractal Geometry, Complex Dimensions and Zeta Functions ~\\cite{L-vF2}.\n\nThe work of Michel Lapidus and Helmut Maier can be summarized as follows:\n\nThe inverse spectral problem for a fractal string can be solved if and only if its dimension is not 1/2.\n\nThe inverse spectral problem for a fractal string is not solvable in dimension 1/2 because the Riemann zeta function $\\zeta(s)=1+1/2^s+1/3^s+\\cdots$ \nvanishes (infinitely often) on the critical line $\\Re(s)=1/2$. Therefore, the inverse spectral problem is solvable in dimension $D\\neq 1/2$ if and only if the Riemann zeta function does not vanish off the critical line $\\Re(s)=1/2$ or, equivalently, if and only if the Riemann hypothesis is true.\n"}
{"id": "305084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305084", "title": "Freedom Evolves", "text": "Freedom Evolves\n\nFreedom Evolves is a 2003 popular science and philosophy book by Daniel C. Dennett. Dennett describes the book as an installment of a lifelong philosophical project, earlier parts of which were \"The Intentional Stance\", \"Consciousness Explained\" and \"Elbow Room\". It attempts to give an account of free will and moral responsibility which is complementary to Dennett's other views on consciousness and personhood.\n\nAs in \"Consciousness Explained\", Dennett advertises the controversial nature of his views extensively in advance. He expects hostility from those who fear that a skeptical analysis of freedom will undermine people's belief in the reality of moral considerations; he likens himself to an interfering crow who insists on telling Dumbo he doesn't really need the feather he believes is allowing him to fly.\n\nDennett's stance on free will is compatibilism with an evolutionary twist – the view that, although in the strict physical sense our actions might be pre-determined, we can still be free in all the ways that matter, because of the abilities we evolved. Free will, seen this way, is about freedom to make decisions without duress (and so is a version of Kantian positive practical free will, i.e., Kantian autonomy), as opposed to an impossible and unnecessary freedom from causality itself. To clarify this distinction, he uses the term 'evitability' (the opposite of 'inevitability'), defining it as the ability of an agent to anticipate likely consequences and act to avoid undesirable ones. \"Evitability\" is entirely compatible with, and actually requires, human action being deterministic.\nDennett moves on to altruism, denying that it requires acting to the benefit of others without gaining any benefit yourself. He argues that it should be understood in terms of helping yourself by helping others, expanding the self to be more inclusive as opposed to being selfless. To show this blend, he calls such actions 'benselfish', and finds the roots of our capacity for this in the evolutionary pressures that produced kin selection. \nIn his treatment of both free will and altruism, he starts by showing why we should not accept the traditional definitions of either term.\n\nDennett also suggests that adherence to high ethical standards might pay off for the individual, because if others know your behaviour is restricted in these ways, the scope for certain beneficial mutual arrangements is enhanced. This is related to game theoretical considerations: in the famous Prisoner's Dilemma, 'moral' agents who cooperate will be more successful than 'non-moral' agents who do not cooperate. Cooperation wouldn't seem to naturally arise since agents are tempted to 'defect' and restore a Nash equilibrium, which is often not the best possible solution for all involved. Dennett concludes by contemplating the possibility that people might be able to opt in or out of moral responsibility: surely, he suggests, given the benefits, they would choose to opt in, especially given that opting out includes such things as being imprisoned or institutionalized.\n\nDaniel Dennett also argues that no clear conclusion about volition can be derived from Benjamin Libet's experiments supposedly demonstrating the non-existence of conscious volition. According to Dennett, ambiguities in the timings of the different events are involved. Libet tells when the readiness potential occurs objectively, using electrodes, but relies on the subject reporting the position of the hand of a clock to determine when the conscious decision was made. As Dennett points out, this is only a report of where it \"seems\" to the subject that various things come together, not of the objective time at which they actually occur.\nSuppose Libet knows that your readiness potential peaked at millisecond 6,810 of the experimental trial, and the clock dot was straight down (which is what you reported you saw) at millisecond 7,005. How many milliseconds should he have to add to this number to get the time you were conscious of it? The light gets from your clock face to your eyeball almost instantaneously, but the path of the signals from retina through lateral geniculate nucleus to striate cortex takes 5 to 10 milliseconds—a paltry fraction of the 300 milliseconds offset, but how much longer does it take them to get to \"you\". (Or are you located in the striate cortex?) The visual signals have to be processed before they arrive at wherever they need to arrive for you to make a conscious decision of simultaneity. Libet's method presupposes, in short, that we can locate the \"intersection\" of two trajectories:\nso that these events occur side-by-side as it were in place where their simultaneity can be noted.\n\nDennett spends a chapter criticising Robert Kane's theory of libertarian free will. Kane believes freedom is based on certain rare and exceptional events, which he calls self-forming actions or SFA's. Dennett notes that there is no guarantee such an event will occur in an individual's life. If it does not, the individual does not in fact have free will at all, according to Kane. Yet they will seem the same as anyone else. Dennett finds an essentially \"indetectable\" notion of free will to be incredible.\n\n"}
{"id": "373008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373008", "title": "Grihastha", "text": "Grihastha\n\nGrihastha (Sanskrit: \"gr̥hastha\") literally means \"being in and occupied with home, family\" or \"householder\". It refers to the second phase of an individual's life in a four age-based stages of the Hindu ashram system. It follows Brahmacharya (bachelor student) life stage, and embodies a married life, with the duties of maintaining a home, raising a family, educating one's children, and leading a family-centred and a dharmic social life.\n\nThis stage of \"Ashrama\" is conceptually followed by Vanaprastha (forest dweller, retired) and Sannyasa (renunciation). Combined with other three life stages, Hindu philosophy considers these stages as a facet of Dharma concept, something essential to completing the full development of a human being and fulfilling all the needs of the individual and society.\n\nAncient and medieval era texts of Hinduism consider \"Grihastha\" stage as the most important of all stages in sociological context, as human beings in this stage not only pursue a virtuous life, they produce food and wealth that sustains people in other stages of life, as well as the offsprings that continues mankind. The householder stage is also considered in Indian philosophy as one where the most intense physical, sexual, emotional, occupational, social and material attachments exist in a human being's life.\n\nIn Indian traditions, \"Grihastha\" stage of life is a recommendation, but not a requirement. Any \"Brahmacharya\" may, if he or she wants, skip householder and retirement stage, go straight to Sannyasa stage of life, thereby renouncing worldly and materialistic pursuits and dedicating their lives to spiritual pursuits.\n\nThe Sanskrit word \"Grihastha\" (गृहस्थ) is a composite \"Grih-astha\" of two root words \"Grih\" (गृह) and \"Astha\" (अस्थ). \"Grih\" means \"home, family, house\", while \"Asth\" means \"devoted to, occupied with, being in\". Grihastha means that which \"being in and occupied with home, family\" or simply \"householder\".\n\nGrihastha is part of the ancient Hindu concept called Chaturashrama, which identified four stages of a human life, with distinct differences based on natural human needs and drives, as well as how these \"stages\" integrated with fulfilling, joyful four \"goals\" of life called Purushartha - Dharma (piety, morality, duties), Artha (wealth, health, means of life), Kama (love, relationships, emotions) and Moksha (liberation, freedom, self-realization). Grihastha is considered to be the most intense of all four stages, where a man or woman pursues all four goals of life, with greater emphasis on first three - Dharma, Artha and Kama. In contrast, Sannyasa is the stage where the individual renounces Artha and Kama, and pursues Moksha with a single minded pursuit.\n\nThe stage \"Grihastha\" is preceded by Brahmacharya (student) stage of life, and followed by Vanaprastha (retirement, forest dweller, still an advisor to the next generation) stage. In ancient texts, Grihastha stage of life is said to extend from the age of about 25 to about 50.\n\nA man or woman entered the \"Grihastha\" stage after a Hindu wedding. They would build a home, raise a family, earn wealth, enjoy worldly life and participate in the society through virtues such as charity.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad and Vedānta Sūtras discuss all four stages of life - student, householder, retired/hermit and ascetic. However they hold \"Grihastha\" ashram as the highest because, explains verse III.4.48, not only does the householder performs the duties recommended for all four asramas, they have to produce food and goods on which people in other ashramas survive. The shared duties of four ashramas are - tenderness for all living creatures (ahimsa), self-restraints, and others.\n\nSome chapters of the Upanishads, for example hymn 4.4.22 of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, specify only three stages of human life – Brahmacharya, Grihastha and Vanaprastha. They make no mention of gender, class or caste restrictions on these stages of life. All three stages are recommended as path to Brahman (inner Self, Soul). In contrast, later texts specify four stages of human life.\n\nGrihastha ashram, declares Gautama Dharmasutra in verses 3.2 and 3.3, is the foundation of all the ashrams, and essential to the existence and continuation of society because the other three ashrams do not produce offspring.\n\nManusmriti, similarly states in Sections VI.87 through VI.90, that it is the householders who feed all those in other three stages of life, and those who seek spiritual pursuits live on, attain fulfillment because of those who accept and prosper in Grihastha ashram. Manusmriti uses the concept of ashram broadly, and in verses III.77 to III.80, declares Grihastha stage as noble, excellent and that \"just like all beings need air to survive, so do all beings take life from the \"Grihastha Ashram\" because of the food they produce and knowledge they apply\".\n\nIn Sections IV.1 through IV.6, Manusmriti states a Brahmana, after being twice-born and completing his studies with his teacher, should marry and live in his house. He must seek a means of living that causes no injury or least possible injury to all living beings, except in times of distress. For this householder stage, the text declares that the Brahmana (graduate from Brahmacharya) should accumulate property by ethically pursuing his caste's occupation. Manusmriti lists five appropriate sources of income or means for survival for the educated Brahmana - Ṛta (ऋत, lawful gleaning and gathering, proper natural work), Amrta (अमृत, accepting gifts and charity), Mrta (मृत, begging), Pramrta (प्रमृत, agriculture, tillage) and Satyanrta (सत्यानृत, trade, commerce, money lending). The text disapproves of one means of survival for the householder - Shvavritti (श्ववृत्ति, dog-like subsistence, servitude, slavery).\n\nThe Vishnu Purana in Book 3 Chapter IX, states\n\nThe Indian Epics have extensive debates on Grihastha stage of life, offering a contrasting spectrum of views on its merits and nature. An illustrative recommended guidelines for conduct in householder stage of life is stated in Book 1, the Adi Parva of the Mahabharata, as follows,\n\n\nIn Buddhism\n"}
{"id": "9141879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9141879", "title": "Indian Child Welfare Act", "text": "Indian Child Welfare Act\n\nThe Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (ICWA) ((), codified at ) is a Federal law that governs jurisdiction over the removal of Native American (Indian) children from their families.\n\nICWA gives tribal governments a strong voice concerning child custody proceedings that involve Indian children, by allocating tribes exclusive jurisdiction over the case when the child resides on, or is domiciled on, the reservation, or when the child is a ward of the tribe; and concurrent, but presumptive, jurisdiction over non-reservation Native Americans' foster care placement proceedings.\n\nICWA was enacted in 1978 because of the disproportionately high rate of forced removal of Indian children from their traditional homes and essentially from American Indian cultures as a whole. Before enactment, as many as 25 to 35 percent of all Indian children were being forcibly removed, mostly from intact American Indian families, and placed in non-Indian homes, with a deliberate absence of American Indian cultures. In some cases, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) paid the states to remove Indian children and to place them with non-Indian families and religious groups. Testimony in the House Committee for Interior and Insular Affairs showed that in some cases, the per capita rate of Indian children in foster care was nearly 16 times higher than the rate for non-Indians. If Indian children had continued to be removed from Indian homes at this rate, tribal survival would be threatened. It also damaged the emotional lives of many children, as adults having been through the process testified. Congress recognized this, and stated that the interests of tribal stability were as important as the best interests of the child. One of the factors in this judgment was that, because of the differences in culture, what was in the best interest of a non-Indian child was not necessarily what was in the best interest of an Indian child, especially as they have traditionally larger extended families and tribal relationships in their culture.\n\nAs Louis La Rose (Winnebago Tribe of Nebraska) testified:\n\nI think the cruelest trick that the white man has ever done to Indian children is to take them into adoption court, erase all of their records and send them off to some nebulous family ... residing in a white community and he goes back to the reservation and he has absolutely no idea who his relatives are, and they effectively make him a non-person and I think ... they destroy him.\n\nCongress recognized that four primary factors contributed to the high rates of Indian child removal. These were 1) \"a lack of culturally competent State child-welfare standards for assessing the fitness of Indian families; 2) systematic due-process violations against both Indian children and their parents during child-custody procedures; 3) economic incentives favoring removal of Indian children from their families and communities; 4) and social conditions in Indian country.\" \n\nVarious other groups have also had stakes in these decisions. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) had an Indian Placement Program that removed Indian children from their tribes and into church members homes. By the 1970s, approximately 5,000 Indian children were living in Mormon homes. The lack of knowledge about American Indian culture by most social workers also contributed to the high removal rates. Most social workers are conditioned by the \"best interest of the child\" as outlined by \"Beyond the Best Interests of the Child (Second Edition),\" which advocates bonding with at least one adult as a parent figure. This did not take into consideration the tribal culture of the extended tribal family, in which children could have close relationships with extended family. Common American Indian practices of having a child cared for by an extended relative was viewed as abandonment by allegedly well-intentioned but arguably paternalistic social workers. But tribal members considered this normal behavior and a desirable way to ensure the child was cared for by family.\n\nDuring congressional consideration, held at the request of Native American advocacy groups, opposition was raised by several states, the LDS Church, and several social welfare groups. The bill was pushed through by Representative Morris Udall of Arizona, who lobbied President Jimmy Carter to sign the bill. It was strongly supported by Senator James Abourezk of South Dakota, who had authored the bill and previously contributed to founding the American Indian Policy Review Commission and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs, each of which he chaired.\n\nCongress's overriding purpose in passing the ICWA was to protect Indian culture and tribal integrity from the unnecessary removal of Indian children by state and federal agencies. Awareness of the issues facing American Indian children came about from the advocacy and research by the Association on American Indian Affairs. Congress reasoned that \"there is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian tribes than their children.\"\n\nIn October 2018, Federal District Court Judge Reed O'Connor struck down parts of the law as unconstitutional due to it mandating racial preference.\n\nICWA sets the minimal Federal standards for nearly all Indian child custody proceedings, including adoption, voluntary and involuntary termination of parental rights, and removal and foster care placement of Indian children, but excluding divorce and child delinquency proceedings. ICWA provides that state courts have no jurisdiction over the adoption or custody of Indian children residing within their own tribal reservation. An \"Indian child\" is \"any unmarried person who is under age eighteen and is either (a) a member of an Indian tribe or (b) is eligible for membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a member of an Indian tribe.\"\n\nICWA applies to a \"child custody proceeding\" involving an Indian child. The term \"child custody proceeding\" involves: (i) \"foster care placements\", where the child has been placed in a foster home, and the parent cannot have the child returned upon demand, but where parental rights have not been terminated; (2) terminations of parental rights; (3) \"preadoptive placements\", which means placing the child in a foster home after the termination of parental rights, but before or instead of an adoption; and (4) adoptions.\n\nICWA does not cover child custody hearings during divorce proceedings. Nor does ICWA cover cases of child delinquency where the child has done something that would be considered a crime if done by an adult. Because Indian tribes play a major part in the upbringing of Indian children that is significantly different than that of the parents, the ICWA gives important jurisdictional powers to Indian tribes in order to preserve the Indian culture. Tribal courts hold either exclusive jurisdiction or concurrent jurisdiction dependent on several factors.\n\nUnder ICWA, an Indian tribe has exclusive jurisdiction over an Indian child who resides or is domiciled within the tribe's land. This includes both reservation land, other tribal lands that are held in trust by the Federal government for the benefit of a tribe or individual, or held by a tribe or individual subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation. The last two describe tribal lands such as those in Oklahoma that were transferred to individual Indians under various laws. The Indian tribal courts also have exclusive jurisdiction over Indian children who are wards of the court or tribe, regardless of their location.\n\nThe first Supreme Court case dealing with ICWA was the 1989 case \"Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield\" (490 U.S. 30, 109 S.Ct. 1597). This Court ruled that the ICWA gives the tribal court exclusive jurisdiction over a case where the parent was domiciled on the reservation, no matter what their own personal desires are in the custody case.\n\nConcurrent jurisdiction is shared jurisdiction between the tribal courts and the state courts. State courts have been severely criticized for ignoring the requirements of the law. In all cases that the tribal court does not have exclusive jurisdiction, they have concurrent jurisdiction. These cases would be custody proceedings involving Indian children that don't reside or are not domiciled on the tribal lands (such as someone born off the reservation and whose parents don't live on the reservation). In these concurrent decisions, the ICWA expresses a preference for tribal jurisdiction in Indian child custody proceedings.\n\nIn an involuntary proceeding, the party seeking the placement of the child, which is often but not always the state, must notify both the parent(s) and/or Indian custodian(s) and the child's tribe at least 10 days prior to the proceeding. Emergency proceedings may follow state law, but proceedings after that are controlled by ICWA. If the state cannot determine who the parent or the tribe is, then the state is required to notify the Secretary of the Interior. Notification must contain all the requisite information identified in 25 CFR § 23.111 and be sent by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested, and the parties notified have the right to an additional 20 days to prepare prior to the proceeding. Failure to provide such notice can cause a jurisdictional defect that may result in any such proceeding to be overturned.\n\nThe ICWA case may be dismissed for lack of due process if not for the lack of jurisdiction \"because ' \"failure to give proper notice of a dependency proceeding to a tribe with which the dependent child may be affiliated forecloses the participation by the tribe, [ICWA] notice requirements are strictly construed.\" ' .\" \n\n\"The determination of a child's Indian status is up to the tribe; therefore, the juvenile court needs only a suggestion of Indian ancestry to trigger the notice requirement.\" \n\nThe MOWA Band of Choctaw Indians, a tribe that is federally recognized by the U.S. Federal Government but is not recognized for services of the Bureau of Indian Affairs under 25 C.F.R 83 et al. are used for precedent for many cases whereby the following conditions apply:\n\nIn cases whereby the mother may not be a member of the tribe, however she is eligible, then before the provisions of ICWA apply, \"the trial court must initially determine if a child is an Indian child within the meaning of ICWA.\" This is because \"a parent's current enrollment is not always dispositive of a child's membership in an Indian tribe\". The finding in the case of the children involved was \"In the matter of C.H. et al., 510 N.W.2d (S.D. 1993) that the MOWA Band of Choctaw Indians were held to be a Federally Recognized tribe for the purposes of ICWA.\n\nThe child may be provided an attorney, and the parents are entitled to one if they are indigent and cannot afford one. If the state does not have provisions for providing indigent parents an attorney, the Secretary of the Interior is to pay the attorney expenses.\n\nAll of the parties have the right to examine all documents and reports related to the proceeding.\n\nIn a removal case, the party seeking the removal (normally Child Protective Services or similar agency) is required to make active efforts to provide the parent or custodian with remedial and rehabilitative services designed to prevent the removal of the child from the Indian family. The \"active effort\" requirement also applies even if the party seeking removal is a private party, as in a private party adoption. The child may not be temporarily removed unless there is a likelihood of \"serious emotional or physical damage\" to the child if they remain in the home.\n\nThe tribe and parents or Indian custodian of the Indian child have an unqualified right to intervene in a case involving foster care placement or the termination of parental rights . The intervention may be at any time, and not just at the beginning of the proceedings. This right does not apply to pre-adoption or adoption proceedings unless it also includes the termination of parental rights.\n\nIn a foster care or termination of parental rights case where the tribe and the state exercise concurrent jurisdiction, the tribe, either biological parent, or the Indian custodian may move to transfer the case from the state court to the tribal court.\n\nA biological parent, whether Indian or non-Indian may object to and veto a proposed transfer of a case to tribal court. A prospective parent, the Indian child, or another party may object, but may not veto a transfer, and those objections would be covered under the \"good cause\" provision. In the event that a parent vetoes the transfer, the case will remain in state court. This is most commonly seen where one of the parents is non-Indian.\n\nThe tribal court may decline to accept the transfer of a case from a state court. An example is where the parents move to transfer the case, but the tribe declines to accept jurisdiction due to a lack of funding for programs that would support the child and the parents at the tribal level that are present at the state level. Note that a tribal court may not be a traditional tribunal, but may be any other administrative body empowered by the tribe to act on child custody matters.\n\nOne aspect of the ICWA that may provide the most hope for Native American families is the requirement of active efforts with the existing family to rehabilitate the root cause prior to removal of the child. Many tribes are focusing on intercession prior to crisis. By engaging at risk families, and providing services, the family may be healed and the outcome for both the child and the family is changed dramatically for the better. Focus on remediation and rehabilitative services to protect the family, unique services that are geared to tribal values are offered, to help parents understand their roles as parents in the culture. Early intervention and support helps caregivers and families achieve better outcomes by addressing parenting skills, addictions, domestic violence and housing instability. Results in an study of intervention/support indicated 81% preservation of the existing family, or placed with extended family. By working with ICWA and the tribes to create preventative services that are culturally sensitive, outcomes can be dramatically changed. Those services need not be limited to tribal members, but also available to foster and adoptive families to help connect with the child's cultural roots.\n\nA state court may decline to transfer a case for \"good cause,\" but that term is not defined in the ICWA. The BIA has issued an advisory set of guidelines for state courts to use in determining \"good cause.\" While these guidelines are not mandatory, many states have adopted them, and they include:\nThe BIA has also set out factors that state courts may \"not\" consider when determining whether good cause exists. These are binding regulations, effective as of December 12, 2016. The prohibited factors are:\n\nIn 1982, the Kansas Supreme Court held that the ICWA \" was not to dictate that an illegitimate infant who has never been a member of an Indian home or culture, and probably never would be, should be removed from its primary cultural heritage and placed in an Indian environment over the express objections of its non-Indian mother.\" Under the facts of the case, the court stated that the ICWA did not apply unless the child was part of an \"existing Indian family unit.\" The court denied the Kiowa Tribe of Oklahoma the right to intervene in the case, stating that the ICWA did not apply. The court also held that even if the ICWA did apply, the trial court committed no reversible error because the non-Indian mother would have objected to the transfer of the case to a tribal court and, thus, defeated the transfer.\n\nFrom the Kansas Supreme Court case sprang a body of jurisprudence around the \"existing Indian family\" exception to ICWA. In the years following the Kansas \"Baby Boy L.\" case, approximately half of the states adopted or expanded upon this \"existing Indian family\" exception, despite the fact that the language appeared nowhere in the text of the ICWA.\n\nSubsequent to the Kansas \"Baby Boy L.\" case, in 1989, the United States Supreme Court heard \"Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield.\" Like the \"Baby Boy L.\" case, both parents in \"Holyfield\" consented to the voluntary termination of their parental rights and adoption of their infant by a non-Indian family. Unlike the parents in \"Baby Boy L.\", the mother in this case lived on the reservation both before and after the birth of the child off-reservation. The Supreme Court found that the child was \"domiciled\" on the reservation because its biological mother was domiciled on the reservation. Therefore, the exclusive jurisdiction of the tribal court under ICWA should have been invoked. The case was remanded to the tribal court for a custody determination three years after the child had been placed with non-Indian adoptive parents. Noting the potential disruption in the child's life, the Supreme Court noted that any potential harm could have been avoided if the parents and state court had not wrongfully denied the tribe its rights under ICWA.\n\nWhile the Supreme Court did not consider the \"existing Indian family\" exception, some sources cite \"Holyfield\" as an implicit rejection of the exception. Other sources have noted that the \"Holyfield\" case is relied upon as support for both sides of the debate over the \"existing Indian family\" exception:\n\nSurprisingly, \"Holyfield\" has been relied upon by courts and parties both to support and reject the existing Indian family exception, which has been invoked in proceedings involving Indian children and families who are living off the reservation and who are, therefore, subject to state court jurisdiction concurrent with that of the tribal court.\n\nAs of 2010, Alabama, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, and Tennessee still use the \"existing Indian family\" exception. Alabama and Indiana have limited its application by further court decisions. Nineteen states have rejected the doctrine, either by court decision or statute, including Kansas, where the Kansas Supreme Court expressly overturned the \"Baby L.\" decision in \"In re A.J.S.\", stating:\n\nGiven all of the foregoing, we hereby overrule Baby Boy L., (citation omitted), and abandon its existing Indian family doctrine. Indian heritage and the treatment of it has a unique history in United States law. A.J.S. has both Indian and non-Indian heritage, and courts are right to resist essentializing any ethnic or racial group. However, ICWA's overall design, including its \"good cause\" threshold in 25 U.S.C. 1915, ensures that all interests—those of both natural parents, the tribe, the child, and the prospective adoptive parents—are appropriately considered and safeguarded. ICWA applies to this state court child custody proceeding involving A.J.S., and the Cherokee Nation must be permitted to intervene.\n\nIn June 2016, the Department of Interior specifically rejected the existing Indian family exception. The regulations reflect not only that courts who rejected the doctrine were correct to do so, but also that \"Congress did not intend to limit ICWA's applicability to those Tribal citizens actively involved in Indian culture.\" \n\nSome critics have complained that the existing Indian family exception requires the state court to determine what it means to be an Indian child or an Indian family, by applying tests to determine the \"Indian-ness\" of the child. One such test involved evaluating if the child lived \"in an 'actual Indian dwelling,' apparently thinking of a teepee, hogan, or pueblo.\" Another work notes that \"state courts have taken it upon themselves to determine individuals' relationship with their tribes by examining such contacts as subscription to a tribal newsletter.\"\n\nIn her 1997 testimony before the Joint Hearing of the House Resources Committee and the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, Assistant Secretary of the Interior Ada Deer (Menominee Indian Tribe of Wisconsin) stated:\n\n... we want to express our grave concern that the objectives of the ICWA continue to be frustrated by State court created judicial exceptions to the ICWA. We are concerned that State court judges who have created the \"existing Indian family exception\" are delving into the sensitive and complicated areas of Indian cultural values, customs and practices which under existing law have been left exclusively to the judgment of Indian tribes ... We oppose any legislative recognition of the concept.\n\n\"Foster care placement\" is defined as \"any action removing an Indian child from its parent or Indian custodian for temporary placement in a foster home or institution or the home of a guardian or conservator where the parent or Indian custodian cannot have the child returned upon demand, but where parental rights have not been terminated\".\n\nThe Supreme Court issued a decision pertaining to the ICWA in the case \"Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl\", on June 25, 2013. In a 5-4 opinion delivered by Justice Samuel Alito, the Supreme Court held that the heightened standard required under § 1912(f) of ICWA does not apply when the parent in question never had physical or legal custody of the child.\n\nIn 2017 the Supreme Court declined to intervene in the case of a Choctaw girl in a jurisdiction case involving the girl's relatives and a non Indian couple who tried to adopt the girl in question\n\nBarbara Kingsolver's 1994 novel \"Pigs in Heaven\" deals with ICWA and its impact on Native American children and their adoptive parents.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "223898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223898", "title": "Industrial ecology", "text": "Industrial ecology\n\nIndustrial ecology (IE) is the study of material and energy flows through industrial systems. The global industrial economy can be modelled as a network of industrial processes that extract resources from the Earth and transform those resources into commodities which can be bought and sold to meet the needs of humanity. Industrial ecology seeks to quantify the material flows and document the industrial processes that make modern society function. Industrial ecologists are often concerned with the impacts that industrial activities have on the environment, with use of the planet's supply of natural resources, and with problems of waste disposal. Industrial ecology is a young but growing multidisciplinary field of research which combines aspects of engineering, economics, sociology, toxicology and the natural sciences.\n\nIndustrial ecology has been defined as a \"systems-based, multidisciplinary discourse that seeks to understand emergent behaviour of complex integrated human/natural systems\". The field approaches issues of sustainability by examining problems from multiple perspectives, usually involving aspects of sociology, the environment, economy and technology. The name comes from the idea that the analogy of natural systems should be used as an aid in understanding how to design sustainable industrial systems.\n\nIndustrial ecology is concerned with the shifting of industrial process from linear (open loop) systems, in which resource and capital investments move through the system to become waste, to a closed loop system where wastes can become inputs for new processes.\n\nMuch of the research focuses on the following areas:\n\nIndustrial ecology seeks to understand the way in which industrial systems (for example a factory, an ecoregion, or national or global economy) interact with the biosphere. Natural ecosystems provide a metaphor for understanding how different parts of industrial systems interact with one another, in an \"ecosystem\" based on resources and infrastructural capital rather than on natural capital. It seeks to exploit the idea that natural systems do not have waste in them to inspire sustainable design.\n\nAlong with more general energy conservation and material conservation goals, and redefining commodity markets and product stewardship relations strictly as a service economy, industrial ecology is one of the four objectives of Natural Capitalism. This strategy discourages forms of amoral purchasing arising from ignorance of what goes on at a distance and implies a political economy that values natural capital highly and relies on more instructional capital to design and maintain each unique industrial ecology.\n\nIndustrial ecology was popularized in 1989 in a \"Scientific American\" article by Robert Frosch and Nicholas E. Gallopoulos. Frosch and Gallopoulos' vision was \"why would not our industrial system behave like an ecosystem, where the wastes of a species may be resource to another species? Why would not the outputs of an industry be the inputs of another, thus reducing use of raw materials, pollution, and saving on waste treatment?\" A notable example resides in a Danish industrial park in the city of Kalundborg. Here several linkages of byproducts and waste heat can be found between numerous entities such as a large power plant, an oil refinery, a pharmaceutical plant, a plasterboard factory, an enzyme manufacturer, a waste company and the city itself. Another example is the Rantasalmi EIP in Rantasalmi, Finland. While this country has had previous organically formed EIP's, the park at Rantasalmi is Finland's first planned EIP.\n\nThe scientific field Industrial Ecology has grown quickly in recent years. The Journal of Industrial Ecology (since 1997), the International Society for Industrial Ecology (since 2001), and the journal Progress in Industrial Ecology (since 2004) give Industrial Ecology a strong and dynamic position in the international scientific community. Industrial Ecology principles are also emerging in various policy realms such as the concept of the Circular Economy that is being promoted in China. Although the definition of the Circular Economy has yet to be formalized, generally the focus is on strategies such as creating a circular flow of materials, and cascading energy flows. An example of this would be using waste heat from one process to run another process that requires a lower temperature. The hope is that strategy such as this will create a more efficient economy with fewer pollutants and other unwanted by-products.\n\nOne of the central principles of Industrial Ecology is the view that societal and technological systems are bounded within the biosphere, and do not exist outside it. Ecology is used as a \"metaphor\" due to the observation that natural systems reuse materials and have a largely closed loop cycling of nutrients. Industrial Ecology approaches problems with the hypothesis that by using similar principles as \"natural systems, industrial systems\" can be improved to reduce their impact on the natural environment as well. The table shows the general metaphor.\nIE examines societal issues and their relationship with both technical systems and the environment. Through this \"holistic view \", IE recognizes that solving problems must involve understanding the connections that exist between these systems, various aspects cannot be viewed in isolation. Often changes in one part of the overall system can propagate and cause changes in another part. Thus, you can only understand a problem if you look at its parts in relation to the whole. Based on this framework, IE looks at environmental issues with a \"systems thinking\" approach. A good IE example with these societal impacts can be found at the Blue Lagoon in Iceland. The Lagoon uses super-heated water from a local geothermal power plant to fill mineral-rich basins that have become recreational healing centers. In this sense the industrial process of energy production uses its wastewater to provide a crucial resource for the dependent recreational industry.\n\nTake a city for instance. A city can be divided into commercial areas, residential areas, offices, services, infrastructures, and so forth. These are all sub-systems of the 'big city’ system. Problems can emerge in one sub-system, but the solution has to be global. Let’s say the price of housing is rising dramatically because there is too high a demand for housing. One solution would be to build new houses, but this will lead to more people living in the city, leading to the need for more infrastructure like roads, schools, more supermarkets, etc. This system is a simplified interpretation of reality whose behaviors can be ‘predicted’.\n\nIn many cases, the systems IE deals with are complex systems. Complexity makes it difficult to understand the behavior of the system and may lead to rebound effects. Due to unforeseen behavioral change of users or consumers, a measure taken to improve environmental performance does not lead to any improvement or may even worsen the situation.\n\nMoreover, \"life cycle thinking\" is also a very important principle in industrial ecology. It implies that all environmental impacts caused by a product, system, or project during its life cycle are taken into account. In this context life cycle includes\nThe transport necessary between these stages is also taken into account as well as, if relevant, extra stages such as reuse, remanufacture, and recycle.\nAdopting a life cycle approach is essential to avoid shifting environmental impacts from one life cycle stage to another. This is commonly referred to as problem shifting. For instance, during the re-design of a product, one can choose to reduce its weight, thereby decreasing use of resources. However, it is possible that the lighter materials used in the new product will be more difficult to dispose of. The environmental impacts of the product gained during the extraction phase are shifted to the disposal phase. Overall environmental improvements are thus null.\n\nA final important principle of IE is its \"integrated approach\" or \"multidisciplinarity\". IE takes into account three different disciplines: social sciences (including economics), technical sciences and environmental sciences. The challenge is to merge them into a single approach.\n\nThe Kalundborg industrial park is located in Denmark. This industrial park is special because companies reuse each other's waste (which then becomes by-products). For example, the Energy E2 Asnæs Power Station produces gypsum as a by-product of the electricity generation process; this gypsum becomes a resource for the BPB Gyproc A/S which produces plasterboards. This is one example of a system inspired by the biosphere-technosphere metaphor: in ecosystems, the waste from one organism is used as inputs to other organisms; in industrial systems, waste from a company is used as a resource by others.\n\nApart from the direct benefit of incorporating waste into the loop, the use of an eco-industrial park can be a means of making renewable energy generating plants, like Solar PV, more economical and environmentally friendly. In essence, this assists the growth of the renewable energy industry and the environmental benefits that come with replacing fossil-fuels.\n\nAdditional examples of industrial ecology include:\n\nThe ecosystem metaphor popularized by Frosch and Gallopoulos has been a valuable creative tool for helping researchers look for novel solutions to difficult problems. Recently, it has been pointed out that this metaphor is based largely on a model of classical ecology, and that advancements in understanding ecology based on complexity science have been made by researchers such as C. S. Holling, James J. Kay, and further advanced in terms of contemporary ecology by others. For industrial ecology, this may mean a shift from a more mechanistic view of systems, to one where sustainability is viewed as an emergent property of a complex system. To explore this further, several researchers are working with agent based modeling techniques\n\nExergy analysis is performed in the field of industrial ecology to use energy more efficiently. The term \"exergy\" was coined by Zoran Rant in 1956, but the concept was developed by J. Willard Gibbs. In recent decades, utilization of exergy has spread outside physics and engineering to the fields of industrial ecology, ecological economics, systems ecology, and energetics.\n\nAnother great example of industrial ecology both in practice and in potential is the Burnside Cleaner Production Centre in Burnside, Nova Scotia. They play a role in facilitating the 'greening' of over 1200 businesses that are located in Burnside, Eastern Canada's largest industrial park. The creation of waste exchange is a big part of what they work towards, which will promote strong industrial ecology relationships.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39406207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39406207", "title": "J-structure", "text": "J-structure\n\nIn mathematics, a J-structure is an algebraic structure over a field related to a Jordan algebra. The concept was introduced by to develop a theory of Jordan algebras using linear algebraic groups and axioms taking the Jordan inversion as basic operation and Hua's identity as a basic relation. There is a classification of simple structures deriving from the classification of semisimple algebraic groups. Over fields of characteristic not equal to 2, the theory of J-structures is essentially the same as that of Jordan algebras.\n\nLet \"V\" be a finite-dimensional vector space over a field \"K\" and \"j\" a rational map from \"V\" to itself, expressible in the form \"n\"/\"N\" with \"n\" a polynomial map from \"V\" to itself and \"N\" a polynomial in \"K\"[\"V\"]. Let \"H\" be the subset of GL(\"V\") × GL(\"V\") containing the pairs (\"g\",\"h\") such that \"g\"∘\"j\" = \"j\"∘\"h\": it is a closed subgroup of the product and the projection onto the first factor, the set of \"g\" which occur, is the \"structure group\" of \"j\", denoted \"G\"'(\"j\").\n\nA \"J-structure\" is a triple (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\") where \"V\" is a vector space over \"K\", \"j\" is a birational map from \"V\" to itself and \"e\" is a non-zero element of \"V\" satisfying the following conditions.\n\nThe \"norm\" associated to a J-structure (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\") is the numerator \"N\" of \"j\", normalised so that \"N\"(\"e\") = 1. The \"degree\" of the J-structure is the degree of \"N\" as a homogeneous polynomial map.\n\nThe \"quadratic map\" of the structure is a map \"P\" from \"V\" to End(\"V\") defined in terms of the differential d\"j\" at an invertible \"x\". We put\n\nThe quadratic map turns out to be a quadratic polynomial map on \"V\".\n\nThe subgroup of the structure group \"G\" generated by the invertible quadratic maps is the \"inner structure group\" of the J-structure. It is a closed connected normal subgroup.\n\nLet \"K\" have characteristic not equal to 2. Let \"Q\" be a quadratic form on the vector space \"V\" over \"K\" with associated bilinear form \"Q\"(\"x\",\"y\") = \"Q\"(\"x\"+\"y\") − \"Q\"(\"x\") − \"Q\"(\"y\") and distinguished element \"e\" such that \"Q\"(\"e\".) is not trivial. We define a reflection map \"x\" by\n\nand an inversion map \"j\" by\n\nThen (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\") is a J-structure.\n\nLet \"Q\" be the usual sum of squares quadratic function on \"K\" for fixed integer \"r\", equipped with the standard basis \"e\"...,\"e\". Then (\"K\", \"Q\", \"e\") is a J-structure of degree 2. It is denoted O.\n\nIn characteristic not equal to 2, which we assume in this section, the theory of J-structures is essentially the same as that of Jordan algebras.\n\nLet \"A\" be a finite-dimensional commutative non-associative algebra over \"K\" with identity \"e\". Let \"L\"(\"x\") denote multiplication on the left by \"x\". There is a unique birational map \"i\" on \"A\" such that \"i\"(\"x\").\"x\" = \"e\" if \"i\" is regular on \"x\": it is homogeneous of degree −1 and an involution with \"i\"(\"e\") = \"e\". It may be defined by \"i\"(\"x\") = \"L\"(\"x\").\"e\". We call \"i\" the \"inversion\" on \"A\".\n\nA Jordan algebra is defined by the identity\n\nAn alternative characterisation is that for all invertible \"x\" we have\n\nIf \"A\" is a Jordan algebra, then (\"A\",\"i\",\"e\") is a J-structure. If (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\") is a J-structure, then there exists a unique Jordan algebra structure on \"V\" with identity \"e\" with inversion \"j\".\n\nIn general characteristic, which we assume in this section, J-structures are related to quadratic Jordan algebras. We take a quadratic Jordan algebra to be a finite dimensional vector space \"V\" with a quadratic map \"Q\" from \"V\" to End(\"V\") and a distinguished element \"e\". We let \"Q\" also denote the bilinear map \"Q\"(\"x\",\"y\") = \"Q\"(\"x\"+\"y\") − \"Q\"(\"x\") − \"Q\"(\"y\"). The properties of a quadratic Jordan algebra will be\n\nWe call \"Q\"(\"x\")\"e\" the \"square\" of \"x\". If the squaring is dominant (has Zariski dense image) then the algebra is termed \"separable\".\n\nThere is a unique birational involution \"i\" such that \"Q\"(\"x\")\"i\" \"x\" = \"x\" if \"Q\" is regular at \"x\". As before, \"i\" is the \"inversion\", definable by \"i\"(\"x\") = \"Q\"(\"x\") \"x\".\n\nIf (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\") is a J-structure, with quadratic map \"Q\" then (\"V\",\"Q\",\"e\") is a quadratic Jordan algebra. In the opposite direction, if (\"V\",\"Q\",\"e\") is a separable quadratic Jordan algebra with inversion \"i\", then (\"V\",\"i\",\"e\") is a J-structure.\n\nMcCrimmon proposed a notion of \"H-structure\" by dropping the density axiom and strengthening the third (a form of Hua's identity) to hold in all isotopes. The resulting structure is categorically equivalent to a quadratic Jordan algebra.\n\nA J-structure has a Peirce decomposition into subspaces determined by idempotent elements. Let \"a\" be an idempotent of the J-structure (\"V\",\"j\",\"e\"), that is, \"a\" = \"a\". Let \"Q\" be the quadratic map. Define\n\nThis is invertible for non-zero \"t\",\"u\" in \"K\" and so φ defines a morphism from the algebraic torus GL × GL to the inner structure group \"G\". There are subspaces\n\nand these form a direct sum decomposition of \"V\". This is the Peirce decomposition for the idempotent \"a\".\n\nIf we drop the condition on the distinguished element \"e\", we obtain \"J-structures without identity\". These are related to isotopes of Jordan algebras.\n\n"}
{"id": "4801076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4801076", "title": "Judicial deference", "text": "Judicial deference\n\nJudicial deference is the condition of a court yielding or submitting its judgment to that of another legitimate party, such as the executive branch in the case of national defense. It is most commonly found in countries, such as the United Kingdom, which lack an entrenched constitution, as the essential purpose of such documents is to limit the power of the legislature.\n\nIn \"Regina v. Director of Public Prosecutions Ex Parte Kebeline and Others\" [1999], Lord Hope explained that courts should \"defer, on democratic grounds, to the considered opinion of the elected body as to where the balance is to be struck between the rights of the individual and the needs of society\". Nevertheless, the doctrine has been criticised for representing a way in which the courts should act obediently to the British Parliament to uphold the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nHowever, any suggestions that the House of Lords was being unduly servile to Parliament were overturned by \"A v Home Secretary\" [2005]. In the case, detainees imprisoned without charge under section 23 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001, on the grounds that they posed a threat to national security, appealed successfully against their detention. The court held that the powers of detention without charge had discriminatory impact (Articles 5 and 14 of the Human Rights Act 1998).\n\nThere are some examples of judicial deference in the United States, despite its entrenched constitution. For example, in immigration law, the judiciary has historically sought to allow the explicit constitutional authority of the US Congress. An example is US Supreme Court decision \"Fiallo v. Bell\" (1977).\n\nThe same restraint is requested in foreign affairs as not-judicable matters, to safeguard the executive branch.\n\n"}
{"id": "23879289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23879289", "title": "Kathleen Nott", "text": "Kathleen Nott\n\nKathleen Cecilia Nott FRSL (11 February 1905 – 20 February 1999) was a British poet, novelist, critic, philosopher and editor.\n\nKathleen Nott was born in Camberwell, London. Her father, Philip, was a lithographic printer, and her mother, Ellen, ran a boarding house in Brixton; Kathleen was their third daughter. She was educated at Mary Datchelor Girls' School (now closed), London, before attending King's College, London. She soon left King's College on an Open Exhibition scholarship to Somerville College, Oxford. The scholarship was in English Literature, but on arriving at Oxford, Nott switched to Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) in which she took a IVth in 1929.\n\nIt was at Oxford that she met Christopher Bailey, an electronics and computer engineer, whom she was to marry in 1929. During the 1930s, Nott was a social worker and psychologist in the East End of London, an experience which would inspire her first novel, \"Mile End\" (1938), which is set in the area. Bailey's work took the couple to the Netherlands, from which they escaped when the German army invaded in 1940.\n\nDuring the war, Nott and Bailey lived in Bournemouth, and afterwards they moved to Sweden. Their marriage was dissolved in the 1950s, They had no children.\n\nIt was her book \"The Emperor's Clothes\" (1953), which drew Nott to the attention of a much wider audience. An atheist, Nott attacked what she described as the \"neo-scholasticism\" of such dominant religious literary figures as T.S. Eliot and C.S. Lewis.\n\nIn 1954, Nott began contributing book reviews to \"The Observer\"; much of her critical work would appear in that newspaper. Essays and reviews by Nott were also published by \"Encounter\", \"Partisan Review\", \"The Nation\", \"The Listener\", \"New Society\", \"Commentary\", \"The Times\" and \"The Spectator\". Nott's last review for \"The Observer\" was published in 1986. She also wrote extensively for the humanist and rationalist movement, and many of her articles were published in the \"Rationalist Annual\", \"Question\", and \"Humanist\". She also translated books and articles.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Nott moved to Horsham, where she lived with a friend. Later in the decade she moved in with one of her sisters in Thornton Heath.\n\nNott was a member of the University Women's Club and the Society of Authors. In \"Who's Who\" she listed her recreations as playing the piano and gardening. She was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1977.\n\nNott suffered from deafness and Parkinson's Disease in her later years. When she died, Nott was living at Wemyss Lodge Residential Home Swindon, Wiltshire.\n\n\"Mile End\" (1938), Nott's first novel, was reviewed by the \"Times Literary Supplement\". The reviewer felt that there was \"something a shade clinical, a trifle too scientifically tolerant or indulgent, in the view of humanity unfolded here\", and found Nott's prose \"sharply individual but perhaps a little too mannered in its intellectual precision.\" Nevertheless, \"she gives the impression of having entered with astonishing acuteness and subtlety of mind into the impulses of the Jewish temperament, the psychological sway of Jewish religious lore and messianic tradition, the alien intensities of the social and domestic mood of the ghetto.\" The reviewer concluded that it was \"an admirably balanced story, which gains in narrative force and even in warmth as it advances.\" \n\nNott's debut collection of poetry, \"Landscapes and Departures\" (1947) received a positive review in the \"Times Literary Supplement\". The reviewer said that although Nott was a \"difficult poet\", her \"quality as a writer is immediately obvious\", concluding that \"In spite of the difficulty of her poems, Miss Nott deserves to be read. She has a rich, harsh and rather masculine talent, and every poem here is full of vigour.\" \n\nNott became involved in the writers' organisation PEN in the 1950s, becoming editor (initially acting editor) of the organisation's journal, \"PEN Bulletin of Selected Books\" (later renamed \"PEN International\"), in 1960. She held the post until 1988.\n\nShe was briefly President of PEN in 1975, staying on as a vice-president until the end of her life.\n\nNott was a committed humanist and rationalist, as signalled by the publication of her controversial \"The Emperor's New Clothes\" (1953), Writing on the occasion of Nott's death, a National Secular Society's former general secretary, Colin McCall, explained the significance of the book:\nYou need to realise the literary situation in post-war Britain to appreciate the importance of Kathleen Nott... This was a time when T.S. Eliot reigned supreme, not only as poet, but as critic; when Graham Greene, C.S. Lewis and Dorothy L. Sayers were, in their different ways, spreading dogmatic Christian orthodoxy; and when the \"Times Literary Supplement\" (January 22, 1954) said the acceptance of authority in matters of religious belief \"is now once more an important constituent in European letters\". It was the philosophical inadequacies of this \"constituent\" that Kathleen Nott had exposed in \"The Emperor's New Clothes\"... \n\nNott contributed chapters to H.J. Blackham's collection of essays, \"Objections to Humanism\" (1963) (a humanist response to \"Objections to Christianity\" from the same publishers), and \"The Humanist Outlook\" (1968), edited by A.J. Ayer. In \"Is Rationalism Sterile?\", Nott wrote:\nTo be too analytical, to demand explanations, reasons, and logical or moral justifications can, we know, destroy human trust and therefore human relations... Safeguarding, the longing for final reassurance characterizes all of us, rationalists and religious alike, and the prestige of objective truth is only an intellectual parallel... It seems to me that the 'theologians' on either side of the rationalist-supernaturalist controversy have become mere case-makers, primarily out for proofs. (Natural enough, no doubt, but meanwhile the riches of feeling, religious or human, have been flung out with the bath-water.) It looks as if some kinds of argument, whatever they appear to be about, can indeed be largely sterile because they are not really aimed at finding a synthesis, a solution, at making peace. They belong to a side, they are covert polemic, and they aim at victory. With warfare of all kinds, truth is indeed the first victim.\n\nFor Nott, rationalism \"in the nineteenth-century dyed-in-the-wool sense of being almost wholly preoccupied with the question of the existence of God, and with rebutting any supernatural sanction for morality\", is \"sterile\" \n. However, \"I do not think that humanists have to be rationalists in the old sense.\".\n\nIn \"Humanism and the Arts\", Nott said that \"humanists of our time are not as strong as they should be on the meaning and value of art and the artist.\" She also admitted that \"as soon as I begin to write about Humanism or speak from a Humanist platform I find myself in full retreat towards square nought. If someone does not ask me what or who is a humanist - I find I am asking myself - or the audience.\" Returning to the theme of \"Is Rationalism Sterile\", Nott observes:\nMany humanists seem to be just non-Godists. All they seriously worry about is the mid-Victorian controversy and it is here that they seem irremovably stuck... the large mass of contemporary literature has made at least one thing clear: that on the subject of God's existence and of the supernatural there is no longer any possibility of reasoned communication.\n\nInstead, Nott advocated that humanists should examine \"the real possibilities of the real concrete human being.\" She continued:\nThe job for the humanist is to try and extract the \"human\" values of religion, to separate them out from the theological languages in which they disguise themselves.\nNott was President of the Progressive League (1959-1961), and an honorary associate of the Rationalist Press Association, from 1979 until her death in 1999.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1283028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283028", "title": "Kri-kri", "text": "Kri-kri\n\nThe kri-kri (\"Capra aegagrus cretica\"), sometimes called the Cretan goat, Agrimi, or Cretan Ibex, is a feral goat inhabiting the Eastern Mediterranean, previously considered a subspecies of wild goat. The kri-kri is now found only on the island of Crete, Greece and three small islands just offshore (Dia, Thodorou and Agii Pantes). \nThe kri-kri has a light brownish coat with a darker band around its neck. It has two horns that sweep back from the head. In the wild they are shy and avoid humans, resting during the day. The animal can leap some distance or climb seemingly sheer cliffs.\n\nThe kri-kri is not thought to be indigenous to Crete, most likely having been imported to the island during the time of the Minoan civilization. Nevertheless, it is found nowhere else and is therefore endemic to Crete. It was once common throughout the Aegean but the peaks of the 2,400 m (8,000 ft) White Mountains of Western Crete are their last strongholds—particularly a series of almost vertical 900 m (3,000 ft) cliffs called 'the Untrodden'—at the head of the Samaria Gorge. This mountain range, which hosts another 14 endemic animal species, is protected as a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. In total, their range extends to the White Mountains, the Samaria National Forest and the islets of Dia, Thodorou, and Agii Pandes. Recently some were introduced onto two more islands.\n\nBy 1960, the kri-kri was under threat, with a population below 200. It had been the only meat available to mountain guerillas during the German occupation in World War II. Its status was one reasons why the Samaria Gorge became a national park in 1962. There are still only about 2,000 animals on the island and they are considered vulnerable: hunters still seek them for their tender meat, grazing grounds have become scarcer and disease has affected them. Hybridization is also a threat, as the population has interbred with ordinary goats. Hunting them is strictly prohibited.\nArchaeological excavations have unearthed several depictions of the kri-kri. Some academics believe that the animal was worshiped during antiquity. On the island, males are often called 'agrimi' (, i.e. 'the wild one'), while the name 'sanada' () is used for the female. The kri-kri is a symbol of the island, much used in tourism marketing and official literature.\n\nAs molecular analyses demonstrate, the kri-kri is not, as previously thought, a distinct subspecies of wild goat. Rather, it is a feral domestic goat, derived from the first stocks of goats domesticated in the Levant and other parts of the Eastern Mediterranean around 8000-7500 BCE. Therefore, it represents a nearly ten-thousand-year-old \"snapshot\" of the first domestication of goats.\n\nIn any case, the kri-kri is an emblem of Crete and has immense cultural significance there. Legally however, endangered species legislation would likely not apply (as this does not cover feral populations), but similar cases elsewhere have been covered under cultural heritage protection laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "484254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=484254", "title": "Köppen climate classification", "text": "Köppen climate classification\n\nThe Köppen climate classification is one of the most widely used climate classification systems. It was first published by the Russian climatologist Wladimir Köppen (1846-1940) in 1884, with several later modifications by Köppen, notably in 1918 and 1936. Later, the climatologist Rudolf Geiger (1954, 1961) introduced some changes to the classification system, which is thus sometimes called the Köppen–Geiger climate classification system.\n\nThe Köppen climate classification divides climates into five main climate groups, with each group being divided based on seasonal precipitation and temperature patterns. The five main groups are \"A\" (tropical), \"B\" (dry), \"C\" (temperate), \"D\" (continental), and \"E\" (polar). Each group and subgroup is represented by a letter. All climates are assigned a main group (the first letter). All climates except for those in the \"E\" group are assigned a seasonal precipitation subgroup (the second letter). For example, \"Af\" indicates a tropical rainforest climate. The system assigns a temperature subgroup for all groups other than those in the \"A\" group, indicated by the third letter for climates in \"B\", \"C\", and \"D\", and the second letter for climates in \"E\". For example, \"Cfb\" indicates an oceanic climate with warm summers as indicated by the ending \"b\". Climates are classified based on specific criteria unique to each climate type.\n\nKöppen designed the system based on his experience as a botanist, so the main climate groups are based on the different variety of vegetation that grows in climates belonging to each group. In addition to identifying climates, the system can be used to analyze ecosystem conditions and identify the main types of vegetation within climates. Due to its link with the plant life of a region, the system is useful in predicting future changes in plant life within a region.\n\nThe Köppen climate classification system has been further modified, within the Trewartha climate classification system in the middle 1960s (revised in 1980). The Trewartha system sought to create a more refined middle latitude climate zone, which was one of the criticisms of the Köppen system (the C climate group was too broad).\n\nThe Köppen climate classification scheme divides climates into five main climate groups: \"A\" (tropical), \"B\" (dry), \"C\" (temperate), \"D\" (continental), and \"E\" (polar). The second letter indicates the seasonal precipitation type, while the third letter indicates the level of heat.\n\nGroup A: Tropical (megathermal) climates\n\nThis type of climate has every month of the year with an average temperature of or higher, with significant precipitation.\n\n\nGroup B: Dry (arid and semiarid) climates\n\nThis type of climate is defined by little precipitation.\n\nMultiply the average annual temperature in Celsius by 20, then add\n\nIf the annual precipitation is less than 50% of this threshold, the classification is BW (arid: desert climate); if it is in the range of 50%–100% of the threshold, the classification is BS (semi-arid: steppe climate).\n\nA third letter can be included to indicate temperature. Originally, h signified low-latitude climate (average annual temperature above ) while k signified middle-latitude climate (average annual temperature below 18 °C), but the more common practice today, especially in the United States, is to use h to mean the coldest month has an average temperature above (or ), with k denoting that at least one month's averages below 0 °C (or ). The n is used to denote a climate characterized by frequent fog.\n\n\nGroup C: Temperate (mesothermal) climates\n\nThis type of climate has the coldest month averaging between (or ) and and at least one month averaging above .\n\n\nGroup D: Continental (microthermal) climates\n\nThis type of climate has at least one month averaging below (or ) and at least one month averaging above .\n\n\nGroup E: Polar and alpine (montane) climates\n\nThis type of climate has every month of the year with an average temperature below .\n\n\nTropical climates are characterized by constant high temperatures (at sea level and low elevations); all 12 months of the year have average temperatures of 18 °C (64.4 °F) or higher. They are subdivided as follows:\n\nAll 12 months have an average precipitation of at least . These climates usually occur within 10° latitude of the equator. This climate is dominated by the doldrums low-pressure system all year round, so has no natural seasons in terms of thermal and moisture changes.\n\nExamples\nSome of the places with this climate are indeed uniformly and monotonously wet throughout the year (e.g., the northwest Pacific coast of South and Central America, from Ecuador to Costa Rica; see, for instance, Andagoya, Colombia), but in many cases, the period of higher sun and longer days is distinctly wettest (as at Palembang, Indonesia) or the time of lower sun and shorter days may have more rain (as at Sitiawan, Malaysia).\n\n(Note. The term aseasonal refers to the lack in the tropical zone of large differences in daylight hours and mean monthly (or daily) temperature throughout the year. Annual cyclic changes occur in the tropics, but not as predictably as those in the temperate zone, albeit unrelated to temperature, but to water availability whether as rain, mist, soil, or ground water. Plant response (e. g., phenology), animal (feeding, migration, reproduction, etc.), and human activities (plant sowing, harvesting, hunting, fishing, etc.) are tuned to this 'seasonality'. Indeed, in tropical South America and Central America, the 'rainy season' (and the 'high water season') is called \"invierno\" or \"inverno\", though it could occur in the Northern Hemisphere summer; likewise, the 'dry season' (and 'low water season') is called \"verano\" or \"verão\", and can occur in the Northern Hemisphere winter).\n\nThis type of climate results from the monsoon winds which change direction according to the seasons. This climate has a driest month (which nearly always occurs at or soon after the \"winter\" solstice for that side of the equator) with rainfall less than 60 mm, but more than the total annual precipitation.\n\nExamples\n\n\"Aw\" climates have a pronounced dry season, with the driest month having precipitation less than 60 mm and less than of the total annual precipitation.\n\nExamples\nMost places that have this climate are found at the outer margins of the tropical zone from the low teens to the mid-20s latitudes, but occasionally an inner-tropical location (e.g., San Marcos, Antioquia, Colombia) also qualifies. Actually, the Caribbean coast, eastward from the Gulf of Urabá on the Colombia–Panamá border to the Orinoco River delta, on the Atlantic Ocean (about 4,000 km), have long dry periods (the extreme is the \"BSh\" climate (see below), characterised by very low, unreliable precipitation, present, for instance, in extensive areas in the , and Coro, western Venezuela, the northernmost peninsulas in South America, which receive <300 mm total annual precipitation, practically all in two or three months).\n\nThis condition extends to the Lesser Antilles and Greater Antilles forming the circum-Caribbean dry belt. The length and severity of the dry season diminishes inland (southward); at the latitude of the Amazon River—which flows eastward, just south of the equatorial line—the climate is \"Af\". East from the Andes, between the dry, arid Caribbean and the ever-wet Amazon are the Orinoco River's llanos or savannas, from where this climate takes its name.\n\nSometimes \"As\" is used in place of \"Aw\" if the dry season occurs during the time of higher sun and longer days. This is the case in parts of Hawaii, northwestern Dominican Republic, East Africa, and the Brazilian Northeastern Coast. In most places that have tropical wet and dry climates, however, the dry season occurs during the time of lower sun and shorter days because of rain shadow effects during the 'high-sun' part of the year.\n\nExamples\n\nThese climates are characterized by actual precipitation less than a threshold value set equal to the potential evapotranspiration. The threshold value (in millimeters) is determined as:\n\nMultiply the average annual temperature in °C by 20, then add (a) 280 if 70% or more of the total precipitation is in the high-sun half of the year (April through September in the Northern Hemisphere, or October through March in the Southern), or (b) 140 if 30%–70% of the total precipitation is received during the applicable period, or (c) 0 if less than 30% of the total precipitation is so received.\n\nAccording to the modified Köppen classification system used by modern climatologists, total precipitation in the warmest six months of the year is taken as reference instead of the total precipitation in the high-sun half of the year.\n\nIf the annual precipitation is less than 50% of this threshold, the classification is \"BW\" (arid: desert climate); if it is in the range of 50%–100% of the threshold, the classification is \"BS\" (semi-arid: steppe climate).\n\nA third letter can be included to indicate temperature. Originally, \"h\" signified low-latitude climate (average annual temperature above 18 °C) while \"k\" signified middle-latitude climate (average annual temperature below 18 °C), but the more common practice today, especially in the United States, is to use \"h\" to mean the coldest month has an average temperature above 0 °C (32 °F) (or ), with \"k\" denoting that at least one month averages below 0 °C.\n\nDesert areas situated along the west coasts of continents at tropical or near-tropical locations are characterized by cooler temperatures than encountered elsewhere at comparable latitudes (due to the nearby presence of cold ocean currents) and frequent fog and low clouds, despite the fact that these places rank among the driest on earth in terms of actual precipitation received. This climate is sometimes labelled \"BWn\". The \"BSn\" category can be found in foggy coastal steppes.\n\nDesert climate examples\nSemi-arid examples\nOn occasion, a fourth letter is added to indicate if either the winter or summer half of the year is \"wetter\" than the other half. To qualify, the wettest month must have at least of average precipitation if all 12 months are above 18 °C (64 °F), or if not; plus at least 70% of the total precipitation must be in the same half of the year as the wettest month — but the letter used indicates when the 'dry' season occurs, not the 'wet' one. This would result in Khartoum, Sudan, being reckoned as \"BWhw\"; Niamey, Niger, as \"BShw\"; Alexandria, Egypt, as \"BWhs\"; Asbi'ah, Libya, as \"BShs\"; Ömnögovi Province, Mongolia, as \"BWkw\"; and Xining, Qinghai, China, as \"BSkw\" (\"BWks\" and \"BSks\" do not exist if 0 °C in the coldest month is recognized as the \"h\"/\"k\" boundary.) If the standards for neither \"w\" nor \"s\" are met, no fourth letter is added.\n\nIn the Koppen climate system, temperate climates are defined as having an average temperature above (or , as noted previously) in their coldest month but below . The average temperature of roughly coincides with the equatorward limit of frozen ground and snowcover lasting for a month or more.\n\nThe second letter indicates the precipitation pattern—\"w\" indicates dry winters (driest winter month average precipitation less than one-tenth wettest summer month average precipitation. \"s\" indicates at least three times as much rain in the wettest month of winter as in the driest month of summer. \"f\" means significant precipitation in all seasons (neither above-mentioned set of conditions fulfilled).\n\nThe third letter indicates the degree of summer heat—\"a\" indicates warmest month average temperature above while \"b\" indicates warmest month averaging below 22 °C.\n\nThese climates usually occur on the western sides of continents between the latitudes of 30° and 45°. These climates are in the polar front region in winter, and thus have moderate temperatures and changeable, rainy weather. Summers are hot and dry, due to the domination of the subtropical high pressure systems, except in the immediate coastal areas, where summers are milder due to the nearby presence of cold ocean currents that may bring fog but prevent rain.\n\nExamples\nDry-summer climates sometimes extend to additional areas (sometimes well north, or south of) typical Mediterranean climates, however the warmest month mean does not reach they are classified as (\"Csb\"). Some of these areas would border the Oceanic climate (\"Cfb\"), except their dry-summer patterns meet Köppen's \"Cs\" minimum thresholds.\n\nExamples\n\nCold-summer Mediterranean climates (\"Csc\") exist in high-elevation areas adjacent to coastal \"Csb\" climate areas, where the strong maritime influence prevents the average winter monthly temperature from dropping below 0 °C. This climate is rare and is predominantly found in climate fringes and isolated areas of the Cascades and Andes Mountains, as the dry-summer climate extends further poleward in the Americas than elsewhere. Rare instances of this climate can be found in some coastal locations in the North Atlantic and at high altitudes in Hawaii.\n\nExamples\n\nThese climates usually occur on the eastern coasts and eastern sides of continents, usually in the high 20s and 30s latitudes. Unlike the dry summer Mediterranean climates, humid subtropical climates have a warm and wet flow from the tropics that creates warm and moist conditions in the summer months. As such, summer (not winter as is the case in Mediterranean climates) is often the wettest season.\nThe flow out of the subtropical highs and the summer monsoon creates a southerly flow from the tropics that brings warm and moist air to the lower east sides of continents. This flow is often what brings the frequent but short-lived summer thundershowers so typical of the more southerly subtropical climates like the far southern United States, southern China and Japan.\n\nExamples\nSubtropical-Dry Winter (\"Cwa\") is monsoonal influenced, having the classic dry winter/wet summer pattern associated with tropical monsoonal climates.\n\nExamples\n\n\"Cfb\" climates usually occur in the higher middle latitudes on the western sides of continents between the latitudes of 40° and 60°; they are typically situated immediately poleward of the Mediterranean climates, although in Australia and extreme southern Africa this climate is found immediately poleward of temperate climates, and at a somewhat lower latitude. In western Europe, this climate occurs in coastal areas up to 63°N in Norway.\nThese climates are dominated all year round by the polar front, leading to changeable, often overcast weather. Summers are mild due to cool ocean currents, although hotter, stable weather patterns can set in for periods of time, typically longer at the lower latitude range in the northern hemisphere. Winters are milder than other climates in similar latitudes, but usually very cloudy however not always wet. \"Cfb\" climates are also encountered at high elevations in certain subtropical and tropical areas, where the climate would be that of a subtropical/tropical rain forest if not for the altitude. These climates are called \"highlands\".\nExamples\n\nSubpolar oceanic climates (\"Cfc\") occur poleward of or at higher elevations than the maritime temperate climates, and are mostly confined either to narrow coastal strips on the western poleward margins of the continents, or, especially in the Northern Hemisphere, to islands off such coasts. They occur in both hemispheres, most often at latitudes from 60° north and south to 70° north and south.\n\nExamples\n\nDry-winter highland climate (\"Cwb\") is a type of climate mainly found in highlands inside the tropics of Mexico, Peru, Bolivia, Madagascar, Zambia, Zimbabwe and South Africa or central Argentina and areas outside of the tropics (such as in the subtropics). Winters are noticeable and dry, and summers can be very rainy. In the tropics, the rainy season is provoked by the tropical air masses and the dry winters by subtropical high pressure.\n\nExamples\nHighland climates with uniform rainfall (\"Cfb\") are a type of oceanic climate mainly found in highlands of Australia, such as in or around the Great Dividing Range in the states of New South Wales and Victoria, and also sparsely in other continents, such as in South America, among others. Unlike a typical \"Cwb\" climate, they tend to have rainfall spread evenly throughout the year. They have characteristics of both the \"Cfb\" and \"Cfa\" climates. Though unlike these climates, they have a high diurnal temperature variation and low humidity, owing to their inland location and relatively high elevation.\n\nExamples\n\nThese climates have an average temperature above 10 °C (50 °F) in their warmest months, and a coldest month average below 0 °C (or , as noted previously). These usually occur in the interiors of continents and on their upper east coasts, normally north of 40°N. In the Southern Hemisphere, group D climates are extremely rare due to the smaller land masses in the middle latitudes and the almost complete absence of land at 40–60°S, existing only in some highland locations.\n\n \n\"Dfa\" climates usually occur in the high 30s and low 40s latitudes, with a qualifying average temperature in the warmest month of greater than 22 °C/72 °F. In Europe, these climates tend to be much drier than in North America. In eastern Asia, \"Dwa\" climates extend further south due to the influence of the Siberian high pressure system, which also causes winters there to be dry, and summers can be very wet because of monsoon circulation. \"Dsa\" exists at higher elevations adjacent to areas with hot summer Mediterranean (\"Csa\") climates.\n\nExamples\n\n\"Dsa\" exists only at higher elevations adjacent to areas with hot summer Mediterranean (\"Csa\") climates.\n\nExamples\n\n\"Dfb\" and \"Dwb\" climates are immediately poleward of hot summer continental climates, generally in the high 40s and low 50s latitudes in North America and Asia, and also extending to higher latitudes in central and eastern Europe and Russia, between the maritime temperate and continental subarctic climates, where it extends up to 65 degrees latitude in places.\nExamples\n\n\"Dsb\" arises from the same scenario as \"Dsa\", but at even higher altitudes or latitudes, and chiefly in North America, since the Mediterranean climates extend further poleward than in Eurasia.\n\nExamples\n\n\"Dfc\", \"Dsc\" and \"Dwc\" climates occur poleward of the other group D climates, generally in the 50 and low 60 degrees of North latitude. In some places, it extends northward to beyond 70°N latitude.\n\nExamples:\n\nPlaces with this climate (\"Dfd\", \"Dwd\", \"Dsd\") have severe winters, with the temperature in their coldest month lower than −38 °C. These climates occur only in eastern Siberia. The names of some of the places with this climate have become veritable synonyms for extreme, severe winter cold.\n\nExamples\n\nIn the Köppen climate system, polar climates are defined as the warmest temperature of any month is below 10 °C (50 °F). Polar climates are further divided into two types, tundra climates and icecap climates:\n\nTundra climate (\"ET\" and \"ETf\"): Warmest month has an average temperature between 0 and 10 °C. These climates occur on the northern edges of the North American and Eurasian land masses (generally north of 70 °N although it may be found farther south depending on local conditions), and on nearby islands. \"ET\" climates are also found on some islands near the Antarctic Convergence, and at high elevations outside the polar regions, above the tree line.\n\nExamples\n\nThese climates are a colder and more continental variants of tundra. They would have characteristics of the ice cap climate, but still manage to see monthly average temperatures above 0 °C (32 °F):\n\nExamples\n\nIce cap climate (\"EF\"): This climate is dominant in Antarctica and inner Greenland, but also occurs at extremely high altitudes on mountains, above even tundra. Monthly average temperatures never exceed 0 °C (32 °F) ((or ).\n\nExamples\n\nOccasionally, a third, lower-case letter is added to ET climates (distinguishing between ETf, ETs, and ETw), if either the summer or winter is clearly drier than the other half of the year. When the option to include this letter is exercised, the same standards that are used for Groups C and D apply, with the additional requirement that the wettest month must have an average of at least 30 mm precipitation (Group E climates can be as dry or even drier than Group B climates based on actual precipitation received, but their rate of evaporation is much lower). Seasonal precipitation letters are almost never attached to EF climates, mainly due to the difficulty in distinguishing between falling and blowing snow, as snow is the sole source of moisture in these climates.\n\nThe Köppen climate classification is based on the empirical relationship between climate and vegetation. This classification provides an efficient way to describe climatic conditions defined by temperature and precipitation and their seasonality with a single metric. Because climatic conditions identified by the Köppen classification are ecologically relevant, it has been widely used to map geographic distribution of long term climate and associated ecosystem conditions.\n\nOver the recent years, there has been an increasing interest in using the classification to identify changes in climate and potential changes in vegetation over time. The most important ecological significance of the Köppen climate classification is that it helps to predict the dominant vegetation type based on the climatic data and vice versa.\n\nIn 2015, a Nanjing University paper published in \"Nature\" analyzing climate classifications found that between 1950 and 2010, approximately 5.7% of all land area worldwide had moved from wetter and colder classifications to drier and hotter classifications. The authors also found that the change \"cannot be explained as natural variations but are driven by anthropogenic factors.\"\n\nThe Trewartha climate classification is a climate classification system published by American geographer Glenn Thomas Trewartha in 1966, and updated in 1980. It is a modified version of the 1899 Köppen system, created to answer some of the deficiencies of the Köppen system. The Trewartha system attempts to redefine the middle latitudes to be closer to vegetation zoning and genetic climate systems. It was considered a more true or \"real world\" reflection of the global climate.\n\nFor example, under the standard Köppen system, in the United States, western Washington and Oregon are classed into the same climate zone as southern California, even though the two regions have strikingly different weather and vegetation. Under the old Köppen system cool oceanic climates like that of London or Seattle were classed in the same zone as hot subtropical cities like Savannah, Georgia or Brisbane, Australia. In the United States, locations like Colorado and Iowa which have long, severe winter climates where plants are completely dormant, were classed into the same climate zone as Louisiana or northern Florida which have mild winters and a green winter landscape.\n\nAll maps use the ≥0 °C definition for temperate climates and the 18 °C annual mean temperature threshold to distinguish between hot and cold dry climates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18137585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18137585", "title": "LGBT rights organization", "text": "LGBT rights organization\n\nLGBT rights organizations are civil rights, health, and community organizations created and existing to further the civil and human rights and health of sexual minorities and to improve the LGBT community.\n\nLGBT organizations may range from more moderate, liberal, organizations such as Stonewall (UK), to more outspoken organizations such as OutRage! in the U.K. and Bash Back! in the U.S., to the conservative, Log Cabin Republicans, in the U.S..\n\nThe first LGBT rights organizations began to emerge in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Early LGBT rights organizations were primarily research-oriented psychiatric organizations that took a sympathetic, rather than corrective approach to homosexuality. such as the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee (Wissenschaftlich-humanitäres Komitee, WhK), which was founded in 1897 by Magnus Hirschfeld, an outspoken advocate for LGBT and women's rights in Germany.\n\nEarly LGBT organizations in the United States were, like earlier German organizations, primarily centered around the rights of gay men. The Society for Human Rights was founded in 1924 in Chicago, Illinois by Henry Gerber, who was inspired by Hirschfeld's work in Germany and produced the first gay-rights-oriented publication in the US, \"Friendship and Freedom\". The first national gay rights organization, the Mattachine Society, was formed in 1951, was created by Harry Hay.\n\nThe first lesbian rights organization in the US was founded in 1955. The Daughters of Bilitis was founded in San Francisco, California by activist couple Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon. In 1966, National Transsexual Counseling Unit was formed in San Francisco.\n\nIn the wake of the Stonewall riots, LGBT organizations began to flourish around the United States, including politically active organizations. The Alice B. Toklas LGBT Democratic Club was founded in 1971 by Martin & Lyon, as well as activists Beth Elliot and Ben Foster. In 1976, Harvey Milk founded a splinter organization known as the San Francisco Gay Democratic Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "1252308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1252308", "title": "Law of thought", "text": "Law of thought\n\nThe laws of thought are fundamental axiomatic rules upon which rational discourse itself is often considered to be based. The formulation and clarification of such rules have a long tradition in the history of philosophy and logic. Generally they are taken as laws that guide and underlie everyone's thinking, thoughts, expressions, discussions, etc. However, such classical ideas are often questioned or rejected in more recent developments, such as intuitionistic logic, dialetheism and fuzzy logic.\n\nAccording to the 1999 Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy, laws of thought are laws by which or in accordance with which valid thought proceeds, or that justify valid inference, or to which all valid deduction is reducible. Laws of thought are rules that apply without exception to any subject matter of thought, etc.; sometimes they are said to be the object of logic. The term, rarely used in exactly the same sense by different authors, has long been associated with three equally ambiguous expressions: the law of identity (ID), the law of contradiction (or non-contradiction; NC), and the law of excluded middle (EM).\nSometimes, these three expressions are taken as propositions of formal ontology having the widest possible subject matter, propositions that apply to entities as such: (ID), everything is (i.e., is identical to) itself; (NC) no thing having a given quality also has the negative of that quality (e.g., no even number is non-even); (EM) every thing either has a given quality or has the negative of that quality (e.g., every number is either even or non-even). Equally common in older works is the use of these expressions for principles of metalogic about propositions: (ID) every proposition implies itself; (NC) no proposition is both true and false; (EM) every proposition is either true or false.\n\nBeginning in the middle to late 1800s, these expressions have been used to denote propositions of Boolean Algebra about classes: (ID) every class includes itself; (NC) every class is such that its intersection (\"product\") with its own complement is the null class; (EM) every class is such that its union (\"sum\") with its own complement is the universal class. More recently, the last two of the three expressions have been used in connection with the classical propositional logic and with the so-called protothetic or quantified propositional logic; in both cases the law of non-contradiction involves the negation of the conjunction (\"and\") of something with its own negation, ¬(A∧¬A), and the law of excluded middle involves the disjunction (\"or\") of something with its own negation, A∨¬A. In the case of propositional logic, the \"something\" is a schematic letter serving as a place-holder, whereas in the case of protothetic logic the \"something\" is a genuine variable. The expressions \"law of non-contradiction\" and \"law of excluded middle\" are also used for semantic principles of model theory concerning sentences and interpretations: (NC) under no interpretation is a given sentence both true and false, (EM) under any interpretation, a given sentence is either true or false.\n\nThe expressions mentioned above all have been used in many other ways. Many other propositions have also been mentioned as laws of thought, including the dictum de omni et nullo attributed to Aristotle, the substitutivity of identicals (or equals) attributed to Euclid, the so-called identity of indiscernibles attributed to Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz, and other \"logical truths\".\n\nThe expression \"laws of thought\" gained added prominence through its use by Boole (1815–64) to denote theorems of his \"algebra of logic\"; in fact, he named his second logic book \"An Investigation of the Laws of Thought on Which are Founded the Mathematical Theories of Logic and Probabilities\" (1854). Modern logicians, in almost unanimous disagreement with Boole, take this expression to be a misnomer; none of the above propositions classed under \"laws of thought\" are explicitly about thought per se, a mental phenomenon studied by psychology, nor do they involve explicit reference to a thinker or knower as would be the case in pragmatics or in epistemology. The distinction between psychology (as a study of mental phenomena) and logic (as a study of valid inference) is widely accepted.\n\nHamilton offers a history of the three traditional laws that begins with Plato, proceeds through Aristotle, and ends with the schoolmen of the Middle Ages; in addition he offers a fourth law (see entry below, under Hamilton):\n\nThe following will state the three traditional \"laws\" in the words of Bertrand Russell (1912):\n\nThe law of identity: 'Whatever is, is.'\n\nFor all a: a = a.\n\nRegarding this law, Aristotle wrote:\nMore than two millennia later, George Boole alluded to the very same principle as did Aristotle when Boole made the following observation with respect to the nature of language and those principles that must inhere naturally within them: \n\nThe law of non-contradiction (alternately the 'law of contradiction'): 'Nothing can both be and not be.'\n\nIn other words: \"two or more contradictory statements cannot both be true in the same sense at the same time\": ¬(A∧¬A).\n\nIn the words of Aristotle, that \"one cannot say of something that it is and that it is not in the same respect and at the same time\". As an illustration of this law, he wrote:\n\nThe law of excluded middle: 'Everything must either be or not be.\"\n\nIn accordance with the law of excluded middle or excluded third, for every proposition, either its positive or negative form is true: A∨¬A.\n\nRegarding the law of excluded middle, Aristotle wrote:\nAs the quotations from Hamilton above indicate, in particular the \"law of identity\" entry, the rationale for and expression of the \"laws of thought\" have been fertile ground for philosophic debate since Plato. Today the debate—about how we \"come to know\" the world of things and our thoughts—continues; for examples of rationales see the entries, below.\n\nto originally research?|data=february 2019}}-->\n\nIn one of Plato's Socratic dialogues, Socrates described three principles derived from introspection: \n\nThe law of non-contradiction is found in ancient Indian logic as a meta-rule in the \"Shrauta Sutras\", the grammar of Pāṇini, and the \"Brahma Sutras\" attributed to Vyasa. It was later elaborated on by medieval commentators such as Madhvacharya.\n\nJohn Locke claimed that the principles of identity and contradiction (i.e. the law of identity and the law of non-contradiction) were general ideas and only occurred to people after considerable abstract, philosophical thought. He characterized the principle of identity as \"Whatsoever is, is.\" He stated the principle of contradiction as \"It is impossible for the same thing to be and not to be.\" To Locke, these were not innate or \"a priori\" principles.\n\nGottfried Leibniz formulated two additional principles, either or both of which may sometimes be counted as a law of thought:\n\nIn Leibniz's thought, as well as generally in the approach of rationalism, the latter two principles are regarded as clear and incontestable axioms. They were widely recognized in European thought of the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, although they were subject to greater debate in the 19th century. As turned out to be the case with the law of continuity, these two laws involve matters which, in contemporary terms, are subject to much debate and analysis (respectively on determinism and extensionality). Leibniz's principles were particularly influential in German thought. In France, the \"Port-Royal Logic\" was less swayed by them. Hegel quarrelled with the identity of indiscernibles in his \"Science of Logic\" (1812–1816).\n\n\"The primary laws of thought, or the conditions of the thinkable, are four: – 1. The law of identity [A is A]. 2. The law of contradiction. 3. The law of exclusion; or excluded middle. 4. The law of sufficient reason.\" (Thomas Hughes, \"The Ideal Theory of Berkeley and the Real World\", Part II, Section XV, Footnote, p. 38)\n\nArthur Schopenhauer discussed the laws of thought and tried to demonstrate that they are the basis of reason. He listed them in the following way in his \"On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason\", §33:\n\nAlso:\nTo show that they are the foundation of reason, he gave the following explanation:\nSchopenhauer's four laws can be schematically presented in the following manner:\n\nLater, in 1844, Schopenhauer claimed that the four laws of thought could be reduced to two. In the ninth chapter of the second volume of \"The World as Will and Representation\", he wrote:\nThe title of George Boole's 1854 treatise on logic, \"An Investigation on the Laws of Thought\", indicates an alternate path. The laws are now incorporated into an algebraic representation of his \"laws of the mind\", honed over the years into modern Boolean algebra.\n\nBoole begins his chapter I \"Nature and design of this Work\" with a discussion of what characteristic distinguishes, generally, \"laws of the mind\" from \"laws of nature\":\n\nContrasted with this are what he calls \"laws of the mind\": Boole asserts these are known in their first instance, without need of repetition: \n\nBoole begins with the notion of \"signs\" representing \"classes\", \"operations\" and \"identity\":\n\nBoole then clarifies what a \"literal symbol\" e.g. x, y, z... represents—a name applied to a collection of instances into \"classes\". For example, \"bird\" represents the entire class of feathered winged warm-blooded creatures. For his purposes he extends the notion of class to represent membership of \"one\", or \"nothing\", or \"the universe\" i.e. totality of all individuals: \n\nHe then defines what the string of symbols e.g. xy means [modern logical &, conjunction]:\n\nGiven these definitions he now lists his laws with their justification plus examples (derived from Boole):\nLogical OR: Boole defines the \"collecting of parts into a whole or separate a whole into its parts\" (Boole 1854:32). Here the connective \"and\" is used disjunctively, as is \"or\"; he presents a commutative law (3) and a distributive law (4) for the notion of \"collecting\". The notion of \"separating\" a part from the whole he symbolizes with the \"-\" operation; he defines a commutative (5) and distributive law (6) for this notion:\nLastly is a notion of \"identity\" symbolized by \"=\". This allows for two axioms: (axiom 1): equals added to equals results in equals, (axiom 2): equals subtracted from equals results in equals.\n\nNothing \"0\" and Universe \"1\": He observes that the only two numbers that satisfy xx = x are 0 and 1. He then observes that 0 represents \"Nothing\" while \"1\" represents the \"Universe\" (of discourse).\n\nThe logical NOT: Boole defines the contrary (logical NOT) as follows (his Proposition III): \n\nThe notion of a particular as opposed to a universal: To represent the notion of \"some men\", Boole writes the small letter \"v\" before the predicate-symbol \"vx\" some men.\n\nExclusive- and inclusive-OR: Boole does not use these modern names, but he defines these as follows x(1-y) + y(1-x) and x + y(1-x), respectively; these agree with the formulas derived by means of the modern Boolean algebra.\n\nArmed with his \"system\" he derives the \"principle of [non]contradiction\" starting with his law of identity: x = x. He subtracts x from both sides (his axiom 2), yielding x - x = 0. He then factors out the x: x(x - 1) = 0. For example, if x = \"men\" then 1 - x represents NOT-men. So we have an example of the \"Law of Contradiction\":\n\nThis notion is found throughout Boole's \"Laws of Thought\" e.g. 1854:28, where the symbol \"1\" (the integer 1) is used to represent \"Universe\" and \"0\" to represent \"Nothing\", and in far more detail later (pages 42ff):\n\nIn his chapter \"The Predicate Calculus\" Kleene observes that the specification of the \"domain\" of discourse is \"not a trivial assumption, since it is not always clearly satisfied in ordinary discourse . . . in mathematics likewise, logic can become pretty slippery when no D [domain] has been specified explicitly or implicitly, or the specification of a D [domain] is too vague\" (Kleene 1967:84).\n\nAs noted above, Hamilton specifies \"four\" laws—the three traditional plus the fourth \"Law of Reason and Consequent\"—as follows:\n\nHamilton opines that thought comes in two forms: \"necessary\" and \"contingent\" (Hamilton 1860:17). With regards the \"necessary\" form he defines its study as \"logic\": “Logic is the science of the necessary forms of thought” (Hamilton 1860:17). To define \"necessary\" he asserts that it implies the following four “qualities”:\n\nHere's Hamilton's fourth law from his LECT. V. LOGIC. 60-61:\n\nIn the 19th century, the Aristotelian laws of thoughts, as well as sometimes the Leibnizian laws of thought, were standard material in logic textbooks, and J. Welton described them in this way:\nThe sequel to Bertrand Russell's 1903 \"The Principles of Mathematics\" became the three volume work named Principia Mathematica (hereafter PM), written jointly with Alfred North Whitehead. Immediately after he and Whitehead published PM he wrote his 1912 \"The Problems of Philosophy\". His \"Problems\" reflects \"the central ideas of Russell's logic\".\n\nIn his 1903 \"Principles\" Russell defines Symbolic or Formal Logic (he uses the terms synonymously) as \"the study of the various general types of deduction\" (Russell 1903:11). He asserts that \"Symbolic Logic is essentially concerned with inference in general\" (Russell 1903:12) and with a footnote indicates that he does not distinguish between inference and deduction; moreover he considers induction \"to be either disguised deduction or a mere method of making plausible guesses\" (Russell 1903:11). This opinion will change by 1912, when he deems his \"principle of induction\" to be par with the various \"logical principles\" that include the \"Laws of Thought\".\n\nIn his Part I \"The Indefinables of Mathematics\" Chapter II \"Symbolic Logic\" Part A \"The Propositional Calculus\" Russell reduces deduction (\"propositional calculus\") to 2 \"indefinables\" and 10 axioms:\n\nFrom these he \"claims\" to be able to \"derive\" the law of excluded middle and the law of contradiction but does not exhibit his derivations (Russell 1903:17). Subsequently, he and Whitehead honed these \"primitive principles\" and axioms into the nine found in PM, and here Russell actually \"exhibits\" these two derivations at ❋1.71 and ❋3.24, respectively.\n\nBy 1912 Russell in his \"Problems\" pays close attention to \"induction\" (inductive reasoning) as well as \"deduction\" (inference), both of which represent just two \"examples\" of \"self-evident logical principles\" that include the \"Laws of Thought.\"\n\nInduction principle: Russell devotes a chapter to his \"induction principle\". He describes it as coming in two parts: firstly, as a repeated collection of evidence (with no failures of association known) and therefore increasing probability that whenever A happens B follows; secondly, in a fresh instance when indeed A happens, B will indeed follow: i.e. \"a sufficient number of cases of association will make the probability of a fresh association nearly a certainty, and will make it approach certainty without limit.\"\n\nHe then collects all the cases (instances) of the induction principle (e.g. case 1: A = \"the rising sun\", B = \"the eastern sky\"; case 2: A = \"the setting sun\", B = \"the western sky\"; case 3: etc.) into a \"general\" law of induction which he expresses as follows:\n\nHe makes an argument that this induction principle can neither be disproved or proved by experience, the failure of disproof occurring because the law deals with \"probability\" of success rather than certainty; the failure of proof occurring because of unexamined cases that are yet to be experienced, i.e. they will occur (or not) in the future. \"Thus we must either accept the inductive principle on the ground of its intrinsic evidence, or forgo all justification of our expectations about the future\".\n\nIn his next chapter (\"On Our Knowledge of General Principles\") Russell offers other principles that have this similar property: \"which cannot be proved or disproved by experience, but are used in arguments which start from what is experienced.\" He asserts that these \"have even greater evidence than the principle of induction . . . the knowledge of them has the same degree of certainty as the knowledge of the existence of sense-data. They constitute the means of drawing inferences from what is given in sensation\".\n\nInference principle: Russell then offers an example that he calls a \"logical\" principle. Twice previously he has asserted this principle, first as the 4th axiom in his 1903 and then as his first \"primitive proposition\" of PM: \"❋1.1 Anything implied by a true elementary proposition is true\". Now he repeats it in his 1912 in a refined form: \"Thus our principle states that if this implies that, and this is true, then that is true. In other words, 'anything implied by a true proposition is true', or 'whatever follows from a true proposition is true'. This principle he places great stress upon, stating that \"this principle is really involved -- at least, concrete instances of it are involved -- in all demonstrations\".\n\nHe does not call his inference principle \"modus ponens\", but his formal, symbolic expression of it in PM (2nd edition 1927) is that of \"modus ponens\"; modern logic calls this a \"rule\" as opposed to a \"law\". In the quotation that follows, the symbol \"⊦\" is the \"assertion-sign\" (cf PM:92); “⊦\" means \"it is true that\", therefore “⊦p” where \"p\" is \"the sun is rising\" means \"it is true that the sun is rising\", alternately \"The statement 'The sun is rising' is true\". The \"implication\" symbol \"⊃\" is commonly read \"if p then q\", or \"p implies q\" (cf PM:7). Embedded in this notion of \"implication\" are two \"primitive ideas\", \"the Contradictory Function\" (symbolized by NOT, \"~\") and \"the Logical Sum or Disjunction\" (symbolized by OR, \"⋁\"); these appear as \"primitive propositions\" ❋1.7 and ❋1.71 in PM (PM:97). With these two \"primitive propositions\" Russell defines \"p ⊃ q\" to have the formal logical equivalence \"NOT-p OR q\" symbolized by \"~p ⋁ q\":\n\nIn other words, in a long \"string\" of inferences, after each inference we can detach the \"consequent\" “⊦q” from the symbol string “⊦p, ⊦(p⊃q)” and not carry these symbols forward in an ever-lengthening string of symbols. \nThe three traditional \"laws\" (principles) of thought: Russell goes on to assert other principles, of which the above logical principle is \"only one\". He asserts that \"some of these must be granted before any argument or proof becomes possible. When some of them have been granted, others can be proved.\" Of these various \"laws\" he asserts that \"for no very good reason, three of these principles have been singled out by tradition under the name of 'Laws of Thought'. And these he lists as follows:\n\nRationale: Russell opines that \"the name 'laws of thought' is ... misleading, for what is important is not the fact that we think in accordance with these laws, but the fact that things behave in accordance with them; in other words, the fact that when we think in accordance with them we think \"truly\".\" But he rates this a \"large question\" and expands it in two following chapters where he begins with an investigation of the notion of \"a priori\" (innate, built-in) knowledge, and ultimately arrives at his acceptance of the Platonic \"world of universals\". In his investigation he comes back now and then to the three traditional laws of thought, singling out the law of contradiction in particular: \"The conclusion that the law of contradiction is a law of \"thought\" is nevertheless erroneous . . . [rather], the law of contradiction is about things, and not merely about thoughts . . . a fact concerning the things in the world.\"\n\nHis argument begins with the statement that the three traditional laws of thought are \"samples of self-evident principles\". For Russell the matter of \"self-evident\" merely introduces the larger question of how we derive our knowledge of the world. He cites the \"historic controversy . . . between the two schools called respectively 'empiricists' [ Locke, Berkeley, and Hume ] and 'rationalists' [ Descartes and Leibniz]\" (these philosophers are his examples). Russell asserts that the rationalists \"maintained that, in addition to what we know by experience, there are certain 'innate ideas' and 'innate principles', which we know independently of experience\"; to eliminate the possibility of babies having innate knowledge of the \"laws of thought\", Russell renames this sort of knowledge \"a priori\". And while Russell agrees with the empiricists that \"Nothing can be known to \"exist\" except by the help of experience,\", he also agrees with the rationalists that some knowledge is \"a priori\", specifically \"the propositions of logic and pure mathematics, as well as the fundamental propositions of ethics\".\n\nThis question of how such \"a priori\" knowledge can exist directs Russell to an investigation into the philosophy of Immanuel Kant, which after careful consideration he rejects as follows:\n\nHis objections to Kant then leads Russell to accept the 'theory of ideas' of Plato, \"in my opinion . . . one of the most successful attempts hitherto made.\"; he asserts that \" . . . we must examine our knowledge of universals . . . where we shall find that [this consideration] solves the problem of \"a priori\" knowledge.\".\n\nUnfortunately, Russell's \"Problems\" does not offer an example of a \"minimum set\" of principles that would apply to human reasoning, both inductive and deductive. But PM does at least provide \"an\" example set (but not the minimum; see Post below) that is sufficient for \"deductive\" reasoning by means of the propositional calculus (as opposed to reasoning by means of the more-complicated predicate calculus)—a total of 8 principles at the start of \"Part I: Mathematical Logic\". Each of the formulas :❋1.2 to :❋1.6 is a tautology (true no matter what the truth-value of p, q, r ... is). What is missing in PM's treatment is a formal rule of substitution; in his 1921 PhD thesis Emil Post fixes this deficiency (see Post below). In what follows the formulas are written in a more modern format than that used in PM; the names are given in PM). \nRussell sums up these principles with \"This completes the list of primitive propositions required for the theory of deduction as applied to elementary propositions\" (PM:97).\n\nStarting from these eight tautologies and a tacit use of the \"rule\" of substitution, PM then derives over a hundred different formulas, among which are the Law of Excluded Middle ❋1.71, and the Law of Contradiction ❋3.24 (this latter requiring a definition of logical AND symbolized by the modern ⋀: (p ⋀ q) = ~(~p ⋁ ~q). (PM uses the \"dot\" symbol for logical AND)).\n\nAt about the same time (1912) that Russell and Whitehead were finishing the last volume of their Principia Mathematica, and the publishing of Russell's \"The Problems of Philosophy\" at least two logicians (Louis Couturat, Christine Ladd-Franklin) were asserting that two \"laws\" (principles) of contradiction\" and \"excluded middle\" are necessary to specify \"contradictories\"; Ladd-Franklin renamed these the principles of exclusion and exhaustion. The following appears as a footnote on page 23 of Couturat 1914:\n\nIn other words, the creation of \"contradictories\" represents a dichotomy, i.e. the \"splitting\" of a universe of discourse into two classes (collections) that have the following two properties: they are (i) mutually exclusive and (ii) (collectively) exhaustive. In other words, no one thing (drawn from the universe of discourse) can simultaneously be a member of both classes (law of non-contradiction), \"but\" [and] every single thing (in the universe of discourse) must be a member of one class or the other (law of excluded middle).\n\nAs part of his PhD thesis \"Introduction to a general theory of elementary propositions\" Emil Post proved \"the system of elementary propositions of Principia [PM]\" i.e. its \"propositional calculus\" described by PM's first 8 \"primitive propositions\" to be \"consistent\". The definition of \"consistent\" is this: that by means of the deductive \"system\" at hand (its stated axioms, laws, rules) it is impossible to derive (display) both a formula S and its contradictory ~S (i.e. its logical negation) (Nagel and Newman 1958:50). To demonstrate this formally, Post had to add a primitive proposition to the 8 primitive propositions of PM, a \"rule\" that specified the notion of \"substitution\" that was missing in the original PM of 1910.\n\nGiven PM's tiny set of \"primitive propositions\" and the proof of their consistency, Post then proves that this system (\"propositional calculus\" of PM) is \"complete\", meaning every possible truth table can be generated in the \"system\":\n\nThen there is the matter of \"independence\" of the axioms. In his commentary before Post 1921, van Heijenoort states that Paul Bernays solved the matter in 1918 (but published in 1926) -- the formula ❋1.5 Associative Principle: p ⋁ (q ⋁ r) ⊃ q ⋁ (p ⋁ r) can be proved with the other four. As to what system of \"primitive-propositions\" is the minimum, van Heijenoort states that the matter was \"investigated by Zylinski (1925), Post himself (1941), and Wernick (1942)\" but van Heijenoort does not answer the question.\n\nKleene (1967:33) observes that \"logic\" can be \"founded\" in two ways, first as a \"model theory\", or second by a formal \"proof\" or \"axiomatic theory\"; \"the two formulations, that of model theory and that of proof theory, give equivalent results\"(Kleene 1967:33). This foundational choice, and their equivalence also applies to \"predicate logic\" (Kleene 1967:318). \nIn his introduction to Post 1921, van Heijenoort observes that both the \"truth-table and the axiomatic approaches are clearly presented\". This matter of a proof of consistency both ways (by a model theory, by axiomatic proof theory) comes up in the more-congenial version of Post's consistency proof that can be found in Nagel and Newman 1958 in their chapter V \"An Example of a Successful Absolute Proof of Consistency\". In the main body of the text they use a model to achieve their consistency proof (they also state that the system is complete but do not offer a proof) (Nagel & Newman 1958:45-56). But their text promises the reader a proof that is axiomatic rather than relying on a model, and in the Appendix they deliver this proof based on the notions of a division of formulas into two classes K and K that are mutually exclusive and exhaustive (Nagel & Newman 1958:109-113)\nThe (restricted) \"first-order predicate calculus\" is the \"system of logic\" that adds to the propositional logic (cf Post, above) the notion of \"subject-predicate\" i.e. the subject x is drawn from a domain (universe) of discourse and the predicate is a logical function f(x): x as subject and f(x) as predicate (Kleene 1967:74). Although Gödel's proof involves the same notion of \"completeness\" as does the proof of Post, Gödel's proof is far more difficult; what follows is a discussion of the axiom set.\n\nKurt Gödel in his 1930 doctoral dissertation \"The completeness of the axioms of the functional calculus of logic\" proved that in this \"calculus\" (i.e. restricted predicate logic with or without equality) that every valid formula is \"either refutable or satisfiable\" or what amounts to the same thing: every valid formula is provable and therefore the logic is complete. Here is Gödel's definition of whether or not the \"restricted functional calculus\" is \"complete\":\n\nThis particular predicate calculus is \"restricted to the first order\". To the propositional calculus it adds two special symbols that symbolize the generalizations \"for all\" and \"there exists (at least one)\" that extend over the domain of discourse. The calculus requires only the first notion \"for all\", but typically includes both: (1) the notion \"for all x\" or \"for every x\" is symbolized in the literature as variously as (x), ∀x, ∏x etc., and the (2) notion of \"there exists (at least one x)\" variously symbolized as Ex, ∃x.\n\nThe restriction is that the generalization \"for all\" applies only to the \"variables\" (objects x, y, z etc. drawn from the domain of discourse) and not to functions, in other words the calculus will permit ∀xf(x) (\"for all creatures x, x is a bird\") but not ∀f∀x(f(x)) [but if \"equality\" is added to the calculus it will permit ∀f:f(x); see below under Tarski]. Example:\n\nKleene remarks that \"the predicate calculus (without or with equality) fully accomplishes (for first order theories) what has been conceived to be the role of logic\" (Kleene 1967:322).\n\nThis first half of this axiom -- \"the maxim of all\" will appear as the first of two additional axioms in Gödel's axiom set. The \"dictum of Aristotle\" (dictum de omni et nullo) is sometimes called \"the maxim of all and none\" but is really two \"maxims\" that assert: \"What is true of all (members of the domain) is true of some (members of the domain)\", and \"What is not true of all (members of the domain) is true of none (of the members of the domain)\".\n\nThe \"dictum\" appears in Boole 1854 a couple places:\n\nBut later he seems to argue against it:\n\nBut the first half of this \"dictum\" (\"dictum de omni\") is taken up by Russell and Whitehead in PM, and by Hilbert in his version (1927) of the \"first order predicate logic\"; his (system) includes a principle that Hilbert calls \"Aristotle's dictum\" \n\nThis axiom also appears in the modern axiom set offered by Kleene (Kleene 1967:387), as his \"∀-schema\", one of two axioms (he calls them \"postulates\") required for the predicate calculus; the other being the \"∃-schema\" f(y) ⊃ ∃xf(x) that reasons from the particular f(y) to the existence of at least one subject x that satisfies the predicate f(x); both of these requires adherence to a defined domain (universe) of discourse.\n\nTo supplement the four (down from five; see Post) axioms of the propositional calculus, Gödel 1930 adds the \"dictum de omni\" as the first of two additional axioms. Both this \"dictum\" and the second axiom, he claims in a footnote, derive from \"Principia Mathematica\". Indeed, PM includes both as\nThe latter asserts that the logical sum (i.e. ⋁, OR) of a simple proposition p and a predicate ∀xf(x) implies the logical sum of each separately. But PM derives both of these from six primitive propositions of ❋9, which in the second edition of PM is discarded and replaced with four new \"Pp\" (primitive principles) of ❋8 (see in particular ❋8.2, and Hilbert derives the first from his \"logical ε-axiom\" in his 1927 and does not mention the second. How Hilbert and Gödel came to adopt these two as axioms is unclear.\n\nAlso required are two more \"rules\" of detachment (\"modus ponens\") applicable to predicates.\n\nAlfred Tarski in his 1946 (2nd edition) \"Introduction to Logic and to the Methodology of the Deductive Sciences\" cites a number of what he deems \"universal laws\" of the sentential calculus, three \"rules\" of inference, and one fundamental law of identity (from which he derives four more laws). The traditional \"laws of thought\" are included in his long listing of \"laws\" and \"rules\". His treatment is, as the title of his book suggests, limited to the \"Methodology of the Deductive Sciences\".\n\nRationale: In his introduction (2nd edition) he observes that what began with an application of logic to mathematics has been widened to \"the whole of human knowledge\": \nTo add the notion of \"equality\" to the \"propositional calculus\" (this new notion not to be confused with \"logical\" equivalence symbolized by ↔, ⇄, \"if and only if (iff)\", \"biconditional\", etc.) Tarski (cf p54-57) symbolizes what he calls \"Leibniz's law\" with the symbol \"=\". This extends the domain (universe) of discourse and the types of functions to numbers and mathematical formulas (Kleene 1967:148ff, Tarski 1946:54ff).\n\nIn a nutshell: given that \"x has every property that y has\", we can write \"x = y\", and this formula will have a truth value of \"truth\" or \"falsity\". Tarski states this Leibniz's Law as follows:\nHe then derives some other \"laws\" from this law: \n\nPrincipia Mathematica \"defines\" the notion of equality as follows (in modern symbols); note that the generalization \"for all\" extends over predicate-functions f( ):\n\nHilbert 1927:467 adds only two axioms of equality, the first is x = x, the second is (x = y) → ((f(x) → f(y)); the \"for all f\" is missing (or implied). Gödel 1930 defines equality similarly to PM :❋13.01. Kleene 1967 adopts the two from Hilbert 1927 plus two more (Kleene 1967:387).\n\nAll of the above \"systems of logic\" are considered to be \"classical\" meaning propositions and predicate expressions are two-valued, with either the truth value \"truth\" or \"falsity\" but not both(Kleene 1967:8 and 83). While intuitionistic logic falls into the \"classical\" category, it objects to extending the \"for all\" operator to the Law of Excluded Middle; it allows instances of the \"Law\", but not its generalization to an infinite domain of discourse.\n\n'Intuitionistic logic', sometimes more generally called constructive logic, is a paracomplete symbolic logic that differs from classical logic by replacing the traditional concept of truth with the concept of constructive provability.\n\nThe \"generalized\" law of the excluded middle is not part of the execution of intuitionistic logic, but neither is it negated. Intuitionistic logic merely forbids the use of the operation as part of what it defines as a \"constructive proof\", which is not the same as demonstrating it invalid (this is comparable to the use of a particular building style in which screws are forbidden and only nails are allowed; it does not necessarily disprove or even question the existence or usefulness of screws, but merely demonstrates what can be built without them).\n\n'Paraconsistent logic' refers to so-called contradiction-tolerant logical systems in which a contradiction does not necessarily result in trivialism. In other words, the principle of explosion is not valid in such logics. Some (namely the dialetheists) argue that the law of non-contradiction is denied by dialetheic logic. They are motivated by certain paradoxes which seem to imply a limit of the law of non-contradiction, namely the Liar Paradox. In order to avoid a trivial logical system and still allow certain contradictions to be true, dialetheists will employ a paraconsistent logic of some kind.\n\nTBD cf Three-valued logic\ntry this \nA Ternary Arithmetic and Logic - Semantic Scholar\nhttps://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/.../11ef6cfbc237a4655af2eee550e6d...\n\nOldal lefordítása\nÍrta: I Profeanu - 2010 - Idézetek száma: 10 - Kapcsolódó cikkek\ngradually reveal. For the beginning I propose a ternary arithmetic and logic and I will bring arguments for their use. Index Terms—free energy, ternary arithmetic, ternary logic. I. INTRODUCTION. It is well known that the numeral system used in most if not all modern computer systems is the binary numerical system, as again ...\n\n(cf Kleene 1967:49): These \"calculi\" include the symbols ⎕A, meaning \"A is necessary\" and ◊A meaning \"A is possible\". Kleene states that:\n\n'Fuzzy logic' is a form of many-valued logic; it deals with reasoning that is approximate rather than fixed and exact.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "130918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=130918", "title": "Leadership", "text": "Leadership\n\nLeadership is both a research area and a practical skill encompassing the ability of an individual or organization to \"lead\" or guide other individuals, teams, or entire organizations. Specialist literature debates various viewpoints, contrasting Eastern and Western approaches to leadership, and also (within the West) United States versus European approaches. U.S. academic environments define leadership as \"a process of social influence in which a person can enlist the aid and support of others in the accomplishment of a common task\".\n\nStudies of leadership have produced theories involving traits, situational interaction, function, behavior, power, vision and values, charisma, and intelligence, among others.\n\nSanskrit literature identifies ten types of leaders. Defining characteristics of the ten types of leaders are explained with examples from history and mythology.\n\nAristocratic thinkers have postulated that leadership depends on one's \"blue blood\" or genes. Monarchy takes an extreme view of the same idea, and may prop up its assertions against the claims of mere aristocrats by invoking divine sanction (see the divine right of kings). Contrariwise, more democratically inclined theorists have pointed to examples of meritocratic leaders, such as the Napoleonic marshals profiting from careers open to talent.\n\nIn the autocratic/paternalistic strain of thought, traditionalists recall the role of leadership of the Roman \"pater familias\". Feminist thinking, on the other hand, may object to such models as patriarchal and posit against them emotionally attuned, responsive, and consensual empathetic guidance, which is sometimes associated with matriarchies.\n\nComparable to the Roman tradition, the views of Confucianism on \"right living\" relate very much to the ideal of the (male) scholar-leader and his benevolent rule, buttressed by a tradition of filial piety.\nLeadership is a matter of intelligence, trustworthiness, humaneness, courage, and discipline ... Reliance on intelligence alone results in rebelliousness. Exercise of humaneness alone results in weakness. Fixation on trust results in folly. Dependence on the strength of courage results in violence. Excessive discipline and sternness in command result in cruelty. When one has all five virtues together, each appropriate to its function, then one can be a leader. — Sun Tzu\nMachiavelli's \"The Prince\", written in the early 16th century, provided a manual for rulers (\"princes\" or \"tyrants\" in Machiavelli's terminology) to gain and keep power.In the 19th century the elaboration of anarchist thought called the whole concept of leadership into question. (Note that the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" traces the word \"leadership\" in English only as far back as the 19th century.) One response to this denial of élitism came with Leninism, which demanded an élite group of disciplined cadres to act as the vanguard of a socialist revolution, bringing into existence the dictatorship of the proletariat.\n\nOther historical views of leadership have addressed the seeming contrasts between secular and religious leadership. The doctrines of Caesaro-papism have recurred and had their detractors over several centuries. Christian thinking on leadership has often emphasized stewardship of divinely provided resources—human and material—and their deployment in accordance with a Divine plan. Compare servant leadership.\n\nFor a more general take on leadership in politics, compare the concept of the statesperson.\n\nThe search for the characteristics or traits of leaders has continued for centuries. Philosophical writings from Plato's \"Republic\" to Plutarch's \"Lives\" have explored the question \"What qualities distinguish an individual as a leader?\" Underlying this search was the early recognition of the importance of leadership and the assumption that leadership is rooted in the characteristics that certain individuals possess. This idea that leadership is based on individual attributes is known as the \"trait theory of leadership\".\n\nA number of works in the 19th century – when the traditional authority of monarchs, lords and bishops had begun to wane – explored the trait theory at length: note especially the writings of Thomas Carlyle and of Francis Galton, whose works have prompted decades of research. In \"Heroes and Hero Worship\" (1841), Carlyle identified the talents, skills, and physical characteristics of men who rose to power. Galton's \"Hereditary Genius\" (1869) examined leadership qualities in the families of powerful men. After showing that the numbers of eminent relatives dropped off when his focus moved from first-degree to second-degree relatives, Galton concluded that leadership was inherited. In other words, leaders were born, not developed. Both of these notable works lent great initial support for the notion that leadership is rooted in characteristics of a leader.\n\nCecil Rhodes (1853–1902) believed that public-spirited leadership could be nurtured by identifying young people with \"moral force of character and instincts to lead\", and educating them in contexts (such as the collegiate environment of the University of Oxford) which further developed such characteristics. International networks of such leaders could help to promote international understanding and help \"render war impossible\". This vision of leadership underlay the creation of the Rhodes Scholarships, which have helped to shape notions of leadership since their creation in 1903.\n\nIn the late 1940s and early 1950s, a series of qualitative reviews of these studies (e.g., Bird, 1940; Stogdill, 1948; Mann, 1959) prompted researchers to take a drastically different view of the driving forces behind leadership. In reviewing the extant literature, Stogdill and Mann found that while some traits were common across a number of studies, the overall evidence suggested that persons who are leaders in one situation may not necessarily be leaders in other situations. Subsequently, leadership was no longer characterized as an enduring individual trait, as situational approaches (see alternative leadership theories below) posited that individuals can be effective in certain situations, but not others. The focus then shifted away from traits of leaders to an investigation of the leader behaviors that were effective. This approach dominated much of the leadership theory and research for the next few decades.\n\nNew methods and measurements were developed after these influential reviews that would ultimately reestablish trait theory as a viable approach to the study of leadership. For example, improvements in researchers' use of the round robin research design methodology allowed researchers to see that individuals can and do emerge as leaders across a variety of situations and tasks. Additionally, during the 1980s statistical advances allowed researchers to conduct meta-analyses, in which they could quantitatively analyze and summarize the findings from a wide array of studies. This advent allowed trait theorists to create a comprehensive picture of previous leadership research rather than rely on the qualitative reviews of the past. Equipped with new methods, leadership researchers revealed the following:\n\nWhile the trait theory of leadership has certainly regained popularity, its reemergence has not been accompanied by a corresponding increase in sophisticated conceptual frameworks.\n\nSpecifically, Zaccaro (2007) noted that trait theories still:\n\nConsidering the criticisms of the trait theory outlined above, several researchers have begun to adopt a different perspective of leader individual differences—the leader attribute pattern approach. In contrast to the traditional approach, the leader attribute pattern approach is based on theorists' arguments that the influence of individual characteristics on outcomes is best understood by considering the person as an integrated totality rather than a summation of individual variables. In other words, the leader attribute pattern approach argues that integrated constellations or combinations of individual differences may explain substantial variance in both leader emergence and leader effectiveness beyond that explained by single attributes, or by additive combinations of multiple attributes..\n\nIn response to the early criticisms of the trait approach, theorists began to research leadership as a set of behaviors, evaluating the behavior of successful leaders, determining a behavior taxonomy, and identifying broad leadership styles. David McClelland, for example, posited that leadership takes a strong personality with a well-developed positive ego. To lead, self-confidence and high self-esteem are useful, perhaps even essential.\nKurt Lewin, Ronald Lipitt, and Ralph White developed in 1939 the seminal work on the influence of leadership styles and performance. The researchers evaluated the performance of groups of eleven-year-old boys under different types of work climate. In each, the leader exercised his influence regarding the type of group decision making, praise and criticism (feedback), and the management of the group tasks (project management) according to three styles: authoritarian, democratic, and laissez-faire.\n\nIn 1945, Ohio State University conducted a study which investigated observable behaviors portrayed by effective leaders, They would then identify if these particular behaviors reflective in leadership effectiveness. They were able to narrow their findings to two identifiable distinctions The first dimension was identified as \"Initiating Structure\", which described how a leader clearly and accurately communicates with their followers, defines goals, and determine how tasks are performed. These are considered \"task oriented\" behaviors The second dimension is \"Consideration\", which indicates the leader's ability to build an interpersonal relationship with their followers, to establish a form of mutual trust. These are considered \"social oriented\" behaviors.\n\nThe Michigan State Studies, which were conducted in the 1950s, made further investigations and findings that positively correlated behaviors and leadership effectiveness. Although they similar findings as the Ohio State studies, they did contribute an additional behavior identified in leaders. This was participative behavior; allowing the followers to participate in group decision making and encouraged subordinate input. Another term used to describe this is \"Servant Leadership\", which entails the leader to reject a more controlling type of leadership and allow more personal interaction between themselves and their subordinates.\n\nThe managerial grid model is also based on a behavioral theory. The model was developed by Robert Blake and Jane Mouton in 1964 and suggests five different leadership styles, based on the leaders' concern for people and their concern for goal achievement.\n\nB. F. Skinner is the father of behavior modification and developed the concept of positive reinforcement. Positive reinforcement occurs when a positive stimulus is presented in response to a behavior, increasing the likelihood of that behavior in the future. The following is an example of how positive reinforcement can be used in a business setting. Assume praise is a positive reinforcer for a particular employee. This employee does not show up to work on time every day. The manager of this employee decides to praise the employee for showing up on time every day the employee actually shows up to work on time. As a result, the employee comes to work on time more often because the employee likes to be praised. In this example, praise (the stimulus) is a positive reinforcer for this employee because the employee arrives at work on time (the behavior) more frequently after being praised for showing up to work on time.\n\nThe use of positive reinforcement is a successful and growing technique used by leaders to motivate and attain desired behaviors from subordinates. Organizations such as Frito-Lay, 3M, Goodrich, Michigan Bell, and Emery Air Freight have all used reinforcement to increase productivity. Empirical research covering the last 20 years suggests that reinforcement theory has a 17 percent increase in performance. Additionally, many reinforcement techniques such as the use of praise are inexpensive, providing higher performance for lower costs.\n\nSituational theory also appeared as a reaction to the trait theory of leadership. Social scientists argued that history was more than the result of intervention of great men as Carlyle suggested. Herbert Spencer (1884) (and Karl Marx) said that the times produce the person and not the other way around. This theory assumes that different situations call for different characteristics; according to this group of theories, no single optimal psychographic profile of a leader exists. According to the theory, \"what an individual actually does when acting as a leader is in large part dependent upon characteristics of the situation in which he functions.\"\n\nSome theorists started to synthesize the trait and situational approaches. Building upon the research of Lewin et al., academics began to normalize the descriptive models of leadership climates, defining three leadership styles and identifying which situations each style works better in. The authoritarian leadership style, for example, is approved in periods of crisis but fails to win the \"hearts and minds\" of followers in day-to-day management; the democratic leadership style is more adequate in situations that require consensus building; finally, the laissez-faire leadership style is appreciated for the degree of freedom it provides, but as the leaders do not \"take charge\", they can be perceived as a failure in protracted or thorny organizational problems. Thus, theorists defined the style of leadership as contingent to the situation, which is sometimes classified as contingency theory. Four contingency leadership theories appear more prominently in recent years: Fiedler contingency model, Vroom-Yetton decision model, the path-goal theory, and the Hersey-Blanchard situational theory.\n\nThe Fiedler contingency model bases the leader's effectiveness on what Fred Fiedler called \"situational contingency\". This results from the interaction of leadership style and situational favorability (later called \"situational control\"). The theory defined two types of leader: those who tend to accomplish the task by developing good relationships with the group (relationship-oriented), and those who have as their prime concern carrying out the task itself (task-oriented). According to Fiedler, there is no ideal leader. Both task-oriented and relationship-oriented leaders can be effective if their leadership orientation fits the situation. When there is a good leader-member relation, a highly structured task, and high leader position power, the situation is considered a \"favorable situation\". Fiedler found that task-oriented leaders are more effective in extremely favorable or unfavorable situations, whereas relationship-oriented leaders perform best in situations with intermediate favorability.\n\nVictor Vroom, in collaboration with Phillip Yetton (1973) and later with Arthur Jago (1988), developed a taxonomy for describing leadership situations, which was used in a normative decision model where leadership styles were connected to situational variables, defining which approach was more suitable to which situation. This approach was novel because it supported the idea that the same manager could rely on different group decision making approaches depending on the attributes of each situation. This model was later referred to as situational contingency theory.\n\nThe path-goal theory of leadership was developed by Robert House (1971) and was based on the expectancy theory of Victor Vroom. According to House, the essence of the theory is \"the meta proposition that leaders, to be effective, engage in behaviors that complement subordinates' environments and abilities in a manner that compensates for deficiencies and is instrumental to subordinate satisfaction and individual and work unit performance\". The theory identifies four leader behaviors, \"achievement-oriented\", \"directive\", \"participative\", and \"supportive\", that are contingent to the environment factors and follower characteristics. In contrast to the Fiedler contingency model, the path-goal model states that the four leadership behaviors are fluid, and that leaders can adopt any of the four depending on what the situation demands. The path-goal model can be classified both as a contingency theory, as it depends on the circumstances, and as a transactional leadership theory, as the theory emphasizes the reciprocity behavior between the leader and the followers.\n\nThe Situational Leadership® Model proposed by Hersey suggests four leadership-styles and four levels of follower-development. For effectiveness, the model posits that the leadership-style must match the appropriate level of follower-development. In this model, leadership behavior becomes a function not only of the characteristics of the leader, but of the characteristics of followers as well.\n\nFunctional leadership theory (Hackman & Walton, 1986; McGrath, 1962; Adair, 1988; Kouzes & Posner, 1995) is a particularly useful theory for addressing specific leader behaviors expected to contribute to organizational or unit effectiveness. This theory argues that the leader's main job is to see that whatever is necessary to group needs is taken care of; thus, a leader can be said to have done their job well when they have contributed to group effectiveness and cohesion (Fleishman et al., 1991; Hackman & Wageman, 2005; Hackman & Walton, 1986). While functional leadership theory has most often been applied to team leadership (Zaccaro, Rittman, & Marks, 2001), it has also been effectively applied to broader organizational leadership as well (Zaccaro, 2001). In summarizing literature on functional leadership (see Kozlowski et al. (1996), Zaccaro et al. (2001), Hackman and Walton (1986), Hackman & Wageman (2005), Morgeson (2005)), Klein, Zeigert, Knight, and Xiao (2006) observed five broad functions a leader performs when promoting organization's effectiveness. These functions include environmental monitoring, organizing subordinate activities, teaching and coaching subordinates, motivating others, and intervening actively in the group's work.\n\nA variety of leadership behaviors are expected to facilitate these functions. In initial work identifying leader behavior, Fleishman (1953) observed that subordinates perceived their supervisors' behavior in terms of two broad categories referred to as consideration and initiating structure. Consideration includes behavior involved in fostering effective relationships. Examples of such behavior would include showing concern for a subordinate or acting in a supportive manner towards others. Initiating structure involves the actions of the leader focused specifically on task accomplishment. This could include role clarification, setting performance standards, and holding subordinates accountable to those standards.\n\nThe Integrated Psychological theory of leadership is an attempt to integrate the strengths of the older theories (i.e. traits, behavioral/styles, situational and functional) while addressing their limitations, largely by introducing a new element – the need for leaders to develop their leadership presence, attitude toward others and behavioral flexibility by practicing psychological mastery. It also offers a foundation for leaders wanting to apply the philosophies of servant leadership and authentic leadership.\n\nIntegrated Psychological theory began to attract attention after the publication of James Scouller's Three Levels of Leadership model (2011).\nScouller argued that the older theories offer only limited assistance in developing a person's ability to lead effectively.\nHe pointed out, for example, that:\n\nScouller proposed the Three Levels of Leadership model, which was later categorized as an \"Integrated Psychological\" theory on the Businessballs education website. In essence, his model aims to summarize what leaders have to do, not only to bring leadership to their group or organization, but also to develop themselves technically and psychologically as leaders.\n\nThe three levels in his model are Public, Private and Personal leadership:\n\nScouller argued that self-mastery is the key to growing one's leadership presence, building trusting relationships with followers and dissolving one's limiting beliefs and habits, thereby enabling behavioral flexibility as circumstances change, while staying connected to one's core values (that is, while remaining authentic). To support leaders' development, he introduced a new model of the human psyche and outlined the principles and techniques of self-mastery, which include the practice of mindfulness meditation.\n\nBernard Bass and colleagues developed the idea of two different types of leadership, transactional that involves exchange of labor for rewards and transformational which is based on concern for employees, intellectual stimulation, and providing a group vision.\n\nThe transactional leader (Burns, 1978) is given power to perform certain tasks and reward or punish for the team's performance. It gives the opportunity to the manager to lead the group and the group agrees to follow his lead to accomplish a predetermined goal in exchange for something else. Power is given to the leader to evaluate, correct, and train subordinates when productivity is not up to the desired level, and reward effectiveness when expected outcome is reached.\n\nThis LMX theory addresses a specific aspect of the leadership process is the leader–member exchange (LMX) theory, which evolved from an earlier theory called the vertical dyad linkage (VDL) model. Both of these models focus on the interaction between leaders and individual followers. Similar to the transactional approach, this interaction is viewed as a fair exchange whereby the leader provides certain benefits such as task guidance, advice, support, and/or significant rewards and the followers reciprocate by giving the leader respect, cooperation, commitment to the task and good performance. However, LMX recognizes that leaders and individual followers will vary in the type of exchange that develops between them. LMX theorizes that the type of exchanges between the leader and specific followers can lead to the creation of \"in-groups\" and \"out-groups\". In-group members are said to have \"high-quality exchanges\" with the leader, while out-group members have \"low-quality exchanges\" with the leader.\n\nIn-group members are perceived by the leader as being more experienced, competent, and willing to assume responsibility than other followers. The leader begins to rely on these individuals to help with especially challenging tasks. If the follower responds well, the leader rewards him/her with extra coaching, favorable job assignments, and developmental experiences. If the follower shows high commitment and effort followed by additional rewards, both parties develop mutual trust, influence, and support of one another. Research shows the in-group members usually receive higher performance evaluations from the leader, higher satisfaction, and faster promotions than out-group members. In-group members are also likely to build stronger bonds with their leaders by sharing the same social backgrounds and interests.\n\nOut-group members often receive less time and more distant exchanges than their in-group counterparts. With out-group members, leaders expect no more than adequate job performance, good attendance, reasonable respect, and adherence to the job description in exchange for a fair wage and standard benefits. The leader spends less time with out-group members, they have fewer developmental experiences, and the leader tends to emphasize his/her formal authority to obtain compliance to leader requests. Research shows that out-group members are less satisfied with their job and organization, receive lower performance evaluations from the leader, see their leader as less fair, and are more likely to file grievances or leave the organization.\n\nLeadership can be perceived as a particularly emotion-laden process, with emotions entwined with the social influence process. In an organization, the leader's mood has some effects on his/her group. These effects can be described in three levels:\nIn research about client service, it was found that expressions of positive mood by the leader improve the performance of the group, although in other sectors there were other findings.\n\nBeyond the leader's mood, her/his behavior is a source for employee positive and negative emotions at work. The leader creates situations and events that lead to emotional response. Certain leader behaviors displayed during interactions with their employees are the sources of these affective events. Leaders shape workplace affective events. Examples – feedback giving, allocating tasks, resource distribution. Since employee behavior and productivity are directly affected by their emotional states, it is imperative to consider employee emotional responses to organizational leaders. Emotional intelligence, the ability to understand and manage moods and emotions in the self and others, contributes to effective leadership within organizations.\n\nThe neo-emergent leadership theory (from the Oxford Strategic Leadership Programme) sees leadership as created through the emergence of information by the leader or other stakeholders, not through the true actions of the leader himself. In other words, the reproduction of information or stories form the basis of the perception of leadership by the majority. It is well known that the naval hero Lord Nelson often wrote his own versions of battles he was involved in, so that when he arrived home in England he would receive a true hero's welcome. In modern society, the press, blogs and other sources report their own views of leaders, which may be based on reality, but may also be based on a political command, a payment, or an inherent interest of the author, media, or leader. Therefore, one can argue that the perception of all leaders is created and in fact does not reflect their true leadership qualities at all.\n\nMany personality characteristics were found to be reliably associated with leadership emergence. The list include, but is not limited to following (list organized in alphabetical order): assertiveness, authenticity, Big Five personality factors, birth order, character strengths, dominance, emotional intelligence, gender identity, intelligence, narcissism, self-efficacy for leadership, self-monitoring and social motivation.\nLeadership emergence is the idea that people born with specific characteristics become leaders, and those without these characteristics do not become leaders. People like Mahatma Gandhi, Abraham Lincoln, and Nelson Mandela all share traits that an average person does not. This includes people who choose to participate in leadership roles, as opposed to those who do not. Research indicates that up to 30% of leader emergence has a genetic basis.\nThere is no current research indicating that there is a “leadership gene”, instead we inherit certain traits that might influence our decision to seek leadership. Both anecdotal, and empirical evidence support a stable relationship between specific traits and leadership behavior. Using a large international sample researchers found that there are three factors that motivate leaders; affective identity (enjoyment of leading), non-calculative (leading earns reinforcement), and social-normative (sense of obligation).\n\nThe relationship between assertiveness and leadership emergence is curvilinear; individuals who are either low in assertiveness or very high in assertiveness are less likely to be identified as leaders.\n\nIndividuals who are more aware of their personality qualities, including their values and beliefs, and are less biased when processing self-relevant information, are more likely to be accepted as leaders. See Authentic Leadership.\n\nThose who emerge as leaders tend to be more (order in strength of relationship with leadership emergence): extroverted, conscientious, emotionally stable, and open to experience, although these tendencies are stronger in laboratory studies of leaderless groups. Agreeableness, the last factor of the Big Five personality traits, does not seem to play any meaningful role in leadership emergence \n\nThose born first in their families and only children are hypothesized to be more driven to seek leadership and control in social settings. Middle-born children tend to accept follower roles in groups, and later-borns are thought to be rebellious and creative \n\nThose seeking leadership positions in a military organization had elevated scores on a number of indicators of strength of character, including honesty, hope, bravery, industry, and teamwork.\n\nIndividuals with dominant personalities – they describe themselves as high in the desire to control their environment and influence other people, and are likely to express their opinions in a forceful way – are more likely to act as leaders in small-group situations.. \n\nIndividuals with high emotional intelligence have increased ability to understand and relate to people. They have skills in communicating and decoding emotions and they deal with others wisely and effectively. Such people communicate their ideas in more robust ways, are better able to read the politics of a situation, are less likely to lose control of their emotions, are less likely to be inappropriately angry or critical, and in consequence are more likely to emerge as leaders.\n\nMasculine individuals are more likely to emerge as leaders than are feminine individuals.\n\nIndividuals with higher intelligence exhibit superior judgement, higher verbal skills (both written and oral), quicker learning and acquisition of knowledge, and are more likely to emerge as leaders. Correlation between IQ and leadership emergence was found to be between .25 and .30. However, groups generally prefer leaders that do not exceed intelligence prowess of average member by a wide margin, as they fear that high intelligence may be translated to differences in communication, trust, interests and values\n\nIndividuals who take on leadership roles in turbulent situations, such as groups facing a threat or ones in which status is determined by intense competition among rivals within the group, tend to be narcissistic: arrogant, self-absorbed, hostile, and very self-confident.\n\nConfidence in one's ability to lead is associated with increases in willingness to accept a leadership role and success in that role.\n\nHigh self-monitors are more likely to emerge as the leader of a group than are low self-monitors, since they are more concerned with status-enhancement and are more likely to adapt their actions to fit the demands of the situation\n\nIndividuals who are both success-oriented and affiliation-oriented, as assessed by projective measures, are more active in group problem-solving settings and are more likely to be elected to positions of leadership in such groups\n\nA leadership style is a leader's style of providing direction, implementing plans, and motivating people. It is the result of the philosophy, personality, and experience of the leader. Rhetoric specialists have also developed models for understanding leadership (Robert Hariman, \"Political Style\", Philippe-Joseph Salazar, \"L'Hyperpolitique. Technologies politiques De La Domination\").\n\nDifferent situations call for different leadership styles. In an emergency when there is little time to converge on an agreement and where a designated authority has significantly more experience or expertise than the rest of the team, an autocratic leadership style may be most effective; however, in a highly motivated and aligned team with a homogeneous level of expertise, a more democratic or Laissez-faire style may be more effective. The style adopted should be the one that most effectively achieves the objectives of the group while balancing the interests of its individual members.\nA field in which leadership style has gained strong attention is that of military science, recently expressing a holistic and integrated view of leadership, including how a leader's physical presence determines how others perceive that leader. The factors of physical presence are military bearing, physical fitness, confidence, and resilience. The leader's intellectual capacity helps to conceptualize solutions and acquire knowledge to do the job. A leader's conceptual abilities apply agility, judgment, innovation, interpersonal tact, and domain knowledge. Domain knowledge for leaders encompasses tactical and technical knowledge as well as cultural and geopolitical awareness.\n\nUnder the autocratic leadership style, all decision-making powers are centralized in the leader, as with dictators.\n\nAutocratic leaders do not entertain any suggestions or initiatives from subordinates. The autocratic management has been successful as it provides strong motivation to the manager. It permits quick decision-making, as only one person decides for the whole group and keeps each decision to him/herself until he/she feels it needs to be shared with the rest of the group.\n\nThe democratic leadership style consists of the leader sharing the decision-making abilities with group members by promoting the interests of the group members and by practicing social equality. This has also been called shared leadership.\n\nIn Laissez-faire or free-rein leadership, decision-making is passed on to the sub-ordinates. The sub-ordinates are given complete right and power to make decisions to establish goals and work out the problems or hurdles.\n\nTask-oriented leadership is a style in which the leader is focused on the tasks that need to be performed in order to meet a certain production goal. Task-oriented leaders are generally more concerned with producing a step-by-step solution for given problem or goal, strictly making sure these deadlines are met, results and reaching target outcomes.\n\nRelationship-oriented leadership is a contrasting style in which the leader is more focused on the relationships amongst the group and is generally more concerned with the overall well-being and satisfaction of group members. Relationship-oriented leaders emphasize communication within the group, show trust and confidence in group members, and show appreciation for work done.\n\nTask-oriented leaders are typically less concerned with the idea of catering to group members, and more concerned with acquiring a certain solution to meet a production goal. For this reason, they typically are able to make sure that deadlines are met, yet their group members' well-being may suffer. Relationship-oriented leaders are focused on developing the team and the relationships in it. The positives to having this kind of environment are that team members are more motivated and have support. However, the emphasis on relations as opposed to getting a job done might make productivity suffer.\n\nAnother factor that covaries with leadership style is whether the person is male or female. When men and women come together in groups, they tend to adopt different leadership styles. Men generally assume an :agentic leadership style. They are task-oriented, active, decision focused, independent and goal oriented. Women, on the other hand, are generally more communal when they assume a leadership position; they strive to be helpful towards others, warm in relation to others, understanding, and mindful of others' feelings. In general, when women are asked to describe themselves to others in newly formed groups, they emphasize their open, fair, responsible, and pleasant communal qualities. They give advice, offer assurances, and manage conflicts in an attempt to maintain positive relationships among group members. Women connect more positively to group members by smiling, maintaining eye contact and respond tactfully to others' comments. Men, conversely, describe themselves as influential, powerful and proficient at the task that needs to be done. They tend to place more focus on initiating structure within the group, setting standards and objectives, identifying roles, defining responsibilities and standard operating procedures, proposing solutions to problems, monitoring compliance with procedures, and finally, emphasizing the need for productivity and efficiency in the work that needs to be done. As leaders, men are primarily task-oriented, but women tend to be both task- and relationship-oriented. However, it is important to note that these sex differences are only tendencies, and do not manifest themselves within men and women across all groups and situations.\n\nIn the past, some researchers have argued that the actual influence of leaders on organizational outcomes is overrated and romanticized as a result of biased attributions about leaders (Meindl & Ehrlich, 1987). Despite these assertions, however, it is largely recognized and accepted by practitioners and researchers that leadership is important, and research supports the notion that leaders do contribute to key organizational outcomes (Day & Lord, 1988; Kaiser, Hogan, & Craig, 2008). To facilitate successful performance it is important to understand and accurately measure leadership performance.\n\nJob performance generally refers to behavior that is expected to contribute to organizational success (Campbell, 1990). Campbell identified a number of specific types of performance dimensions; leadership was one of the dimensions that he identified. There is no consistent, overall definition of leadership performance (Yukl, 2006). Many distinct conceptualizations are often lumped together under the umbrella of leadership performance, including outcomes such as leader effectiveness, leader advancement, and leader emergence (Kaiser et al., 2008). For instance, leadership performance may be used to refer to the career success of the individual leader, performance of the group or organization, or even leader emergence. Each of these measures can be considered conceptually distinct. While these aspects may be related, they are different outcomes and their inclusion should depend on the applied or research focus.\n\n\"Another way to conceptualize leader performance is to focus on the outcomes of the leader’s followers, group, team, unit, or organization. In evaluating this type of leader performance, two general strategies are typically used. The first relies on subjective perceptions of the leader’s performance from subordinates, superiors, or occasionally peers or other parties. The other type of effectiveness measures are more objective indicators of follower or unit performance, such as measures of productivity, goal attainment, sales figures, or unit financial performance (Bass & Riggio, 2006, p. 47).\"\nA toxic leader is someone who has responsibility over a group of people or an organization, and who abuses the leader–follower relationship by leaving the group or organization in a worse-off condition than when he/she joined it.\n\nMost theories in the 20th century argued that great leaders were born, not made. Current studies have indicated that leadership is much more complex and cannot be boiled down to a few key traits of an individual. Years of observation and study have indicated that one such trait or a set of traits does not make an extraordinary leader. What scholars have been able to arrive at is that leadership traits of an individual do not change from situation to situation; such traits include intelligence, assertiveness, or physical attractiveness. However, each key trait may be applied to situations differently, depending on the circumstances. The following summarizes the main leadership traits found in research by Jon P. Howell, business professor at New Mexico State University and author of the book \"Snapshots of Great Leadership\".\n\nDetermination and drive include traits such as initiative, energy, assertiveness, perseverance and sometimes dominance. People with these traits often tend to wholeheartedly pursue their goals, work long hours, are ambitious, and often are very competitive with others. Cognitive capacity includes intelligence, analytical and verbal ability, behavioral flexibility, and good judgment. Individuals with these traits are able to formulate solutions to difficult problems, work well under stress or deadlines, adapt to changing situations, and create well-thought-out plans for the future. Howell provides examples of Steve Jobs and Abraham Lincoln as encompassing the traits of determination and drive as well as possessing cognitive capacity, demonstrated by their ability to adapt to their continuously changing environments.\n\nSelf-confidence encompasses the traits of high self-esteem, assertiveness, emotional stability, and self-assurance. Individuals who are self-confident do not doubt themselves or their abilities and decisions; they also have the ability to project this self-confidence onto others, building their trust and commitment. Integrity is demonstrated in individuals who are truthful, trustworthy, principled, consistent, dependable, loyal, and not deceptive. Leaders with integrity often share these values with their followers, as this trait is mainly an ethics issue. It is often said that these leaders keep their word and are honest and open with their cohorts. Sociability describes individuals who are friendly, extroverted, tactful, flexible, and interpersonally competent. Such a trait enables leaders to be accepted well by the public, use diplomatic measures to solve issues, as well as hold the ability to adapt their social persona to the situation at hand. According to Howell, Mother Teresa is an exceptional example who embodies integrity, assertiveness, and social abilities in her diplomatic dealings with the leaders of the world.\n\nFew great leaders encompass all of the traits listed above, but many have the ability to apply a number of them to succeed as front-runners of their organization or situation.\n\nOne of the more recent definitions of leadership comes from Werner Erhard, Michael C. Jensen, Steve Zaffron, and Kari Granger who describe leadership as \"an exercise in language that results in the realization of a future that wasn't going to happen anyway, which future fulfills (or contributes to fulfilling) the concerns of the relevant parties...\". This definition ensures that leadership is talking about the future and includes the fundamental concerns of the relevant parties. This differs from relating to the relevant parties as \"followers\" and calling up an image of a single leader with others following. Rather, a future that fulfills on the fundamental concerns of the relevant parties indicates the future that wasn't going to happen is not the \"idea of the leader\", but rather is what emerges from digging deep to find the underlying concerns of those who are impacted by the leadership.\n\nAn organization that is established as an instrument or means for achieving defined objectives has been referred to as a \"formal organization\". Its design specifies how goals are subdivided and reflected in subdivisions of the organization. Divisions, departments, sections, positions, jobs, and tasks make up this work structure. Thus, the formal organization is expected to behave impersonally in regard to relationships with clients or with its members. According to Weber's definition, entry and subsequent advancement is by merit or seniority. Employees receive a salary and enjoy a degree of tenure that safeguards them from the arbitrary influence of superiors or of powerful clients. The higher one's position in the hierarchy, the greater one's presumed expertise in adjudicating problems that may arise in the course of the work carried out at lower levels of the organization. It is this bureaucratic structure that forms the basis for the appointment of heads or chiefs of administrative subdivisions in the organization and endows them with the authority attached to their position.\n\nIn contrast to the appointed head or chief of an administrative unit, a leader emerges within the context of the \"informal organization\" that underlies the formal structure. The informal organization expresses the personal objectives and goals of the individual membership. Their objectives and goals may or may not coincide with those of the formal organization. The informal organization represents an extension of the social structures that generally characterize human life — the spontaneous emergence of groups and organizations as ends in themselves.\n\nIn prehistoric times, humanity was preoccupied with personal security, maintenance, protection, and survival. Now humanity spends a major portion of waking hours working for organizations. The need to identify with a community that provides security, protection, maintenance, and a feeling of belonging has continued unchanged from prehistoric times. This need is met by the informal organization and its emergent, or unofficial, leaders.\n\nLeaders emerge from within the structure of the informal organization. Their personal qualities, the demands of the situation, or a combination of these and other factors attract followers who accept their leadership within one or several overlay structures. Instead of the authority of position held by an appointed head or chief, the emergent leader wields influence or power. Influence is the ability of a person to gain co-operation from others by means of persuasion or control over rewards. Power is a stronger form of influence because it reflects a person's ability to enforce action through the control of a means of punishment.\n\nA leader is a person who influences a group of people towards a specific result. It is not dependent on title or formal authority. (Elevos, paraphrased from Leaders, Bennis, and Leadership Presence, Halpern & Lubar.) Ogbonnia (2007) defines an effective leader \"as an individual with the capacity to consistently succeed in a given condition and be viewed as meeting the expectations of an organization or society.\" Leaders are recognized by their capacity for caring for others, clear communication, and a commitment to persist. An individual who is appointed to a managerial position has the right to command and enforce obedience by virtue of the authority of their position. However, she or he must possess adequate personal attributes to match this authority, because authority is only potentially available to him/her. In the absence of sufficient personal competence, a manager may be confronted by an emergent leader who can challenge her/his role in the organization and reduce it to that of a figurehead. However, only authority of position has the backing of formal sanctions. It follows that whoever wields personal influence and power can legitimize this only by gaining a formal position in the hierarchy, with commensurate authority. Leadership can be defined as one's ability to get others to willingly follow. Every organization needs leaders at every level.\n\nOver the years the philosophical terminology of \"management\" and \"leadership\" have, in the organizational context, been used both as synonyms and with clearly differentiated meanings. Debate is fairly common about whether the use of these terms should be restricted, and generally reflects an awareness of the distinction made by Burns (1978) between \"transactional\" leadership (characterized by emphasis on procedures, contingent reward, management by exception) and \"transformational\" leadership (characterized by charisma, personal relationships, creativity).\n\nIn contrast to individual leadership, some organizations have adopted group leadership. In this so-called shared leadership, more than one person provides direction to the group as a whole. It is furthermore characterized by shared responsibility, cooperation and mutual influence among the team members. Some organizations have taken this approach in hopes of increasing creativity, reducing costs, or downsizing. Others may see the traditional leadership of a boss as costing too much in team performance. In some situations, the team members best able to handle any given phase of the project become the temporary leaders. Additionally, as each team member has the opportunity to experience the elevated level of empowerment, it energizes staff and feeds the cycle of success.\n\nLeaders who demonstrate persistence, tenacity, determination, and synergistic communication skills will bring out the same qualities in their groups. Good leaders use their own inner mentors to energize their team and organizations and lead a team to achieve success.\n\nAccording to the National School Boards Association (USA):\n\nThese Group Leaderships or Leadership Teams have specific characteristics:\n\nCharacteristics of a Team\n\nTen characteristics of well-functioning teams:\n\nSelf-leadership is a process that occurs within an individual, rather than an external act. It is an expression of who we are as people.\n\nMark van Vugt and Anjana Ahuja in \"Naturally Selected: The Evolutionary Science of Leadership\" (2011) present evidence of leadership in non-human animals, from ants and bees to baboons and chimpanzees. They suggest that leadership has a long evolutionary history and that the same mechanisms underpinning leadership in humans appear in other social species, too. They also suggest that the evolutionary origins of leadership are different from that of dominance. In a study Mark van Vugt and his team looked at the relation between basal testosterone and leadership versus dominance. They found that testosterone correlates with dominance but not with leadership. This was replicated in a sample of managers in which there was no relation between hierarchical position and testosterone level.. \nRichard Wrangham and Dale Peterson, in \"\" (1996), present evidence that only humans and chimpanzees, among all the animals living on Earth, share a similar tendency for a cluster of behaviors: violence, territoriality, and competition for uniting behind the one chief male of the land. This position is contentious. Many animals apart from apes are territorial, compete, exhibit violence, and have a social structure controlled by a dominant male (lions, wolves, etc.), suggesting Wrangham and Peterson's evidence is not empirical. However, we must examine other species as well, including elephants (which are matriarchal and follow an alpha female), meerkats (which are likewise matriarchal), sheep (which follow castrated bellwethers) and many others.\n\nBy comparison, bonobos, the second-closest species-relatives of humans, do \"not\" unite behind the chief male of the land. The bonobos show deference to an alpha or top-ranking female that, with the support of her coalition of other females, can prove as strong as the strongest male. Thus, if leadership amounts to getting the greatest number of followers, then among the bonobos, a female almost always exerts the strongest and most effective leadership. (Incidentally, not all scientists agree on the allegedly peaceful nature of the bonobo or with its reputation as a \"hippie chimp\".\n\nLeadership, although largely talked about, has been described as one of the least understood concepts across all cultures and civilizations. Over the years, many researchers have stressed the prevalence of this misunderstanding, stating that the existence of several flawed assumptions, or myths, concerning leadership often interferes with individuals' conception of what leadership is all about (Gardner, 1965; Bennis, 1975).\n\nAccording to some, leadership is determined by distinctive dispositional characteristics present at birth (e.g., extraversion; intelligence; ingenuity). However, according to Forsyth (2009) there is evidence to show that leadership also develops through hard work and careful observation. Thus, effective leadership can result from nature (i.e., innate talents) as well as nurture (i.e., acquired skills).\n\nAlthough leadership is certainly a form of power, it is not demarcated by power \"over\" people – rather, it is a power \"with\" people that exists as a reciprocal relationship between a leader and his/her followers (Forsyth, 2009). Despite popular belief, the use of manipulation, coercion, and domination to influence others is not a requirement for leadership. In actuality, individuals who seek group consent and strive to act in the best interests of others can also become effective leaders (e.g., class president; court judge).\n\nThe validity of the assertion that groups flourish when guided by effective leaders can be illustrated using several examples. For instance, according to Baumeister et al. (1988), the bystander effect (failure to respond or offer assistance) that tends to develop within groups faced with an emergency is significantly reduced in groups guided by a leader. Moreover, it has been documented that group performance, creativity, and efficiency all tend to climb in businesses with designated managers or CEOs. However, the difference leaders make is not always positive in nature. Leaders sometimes focus on fulfilling their own agendas at the expense of others, including his/her own followers (e.g., Pol Pot; Josef Stalin). Leaders who focus on personal gain by employing stringent and manipulative leadership styles often make a difference, but usually do so through negative means.\n\nIn Western cultures it is generally assumed that group leaders make \"all\" the difference when it comes to group influence and overall goal-attainment. Although common, this romanticized view of leadership (i.e., the tendency to overestimate the degree of control leaders have over their groups and their groups' outcomes) ignores the existence of many other factors that influence group dynamics. For example, group cohesion, communication patterns among members, individual personality traits, group context, the nature or orientation of the work, as well as behavioral norms and established standards influence group functionality in varying capacities. For this reason, it is unwarranted to assume that all leaders are in complete control of their groups' achievements.\n\nDespite preconceived notions, not all groups need have a designated leader. Groups that are primarily composed of women, are limited in size, are free from stressful decision-making, or only exist for a short period of time (e.g., student work groups; pub quiz/trivia teams) often undergo a diffusion of responsibility, where leadership tasks and roles are shared amongst members (Schmid Mast, 2002; Berdahl & Anderson, 2007; Guastello, 2007).\n\nAlthough research has indicated that group members' dependence on group leaders can lead to reduced self-reliance and overall group strength, most people actually prefer to be led than to be without a leader (Berkowitz, 1953). This \"need for a leader\" becomes especially strong in troubled groups that are experiencing some sort of conflict. Group members tend to be more contented and productive when they have a leader to guide them. Although individuals filling leadership roles can be a direct source of resentment for followers, most people appreciate the contributions that leaders make to their groups and consequently welcome the guidance of a leader (Stewart & Manz, 1995).\n\nIn most cases, these teams are tasked to operate in remote and changeable environments with limited support or backup (action environments). Leadership of people in these environments requires a different set of skills to that of front line management. These leaders must effectively operate remotely and negotiate the needs of the individual, team, and task within a changeable environment. This has been termed action oriented leadership. Some examples of demonstrations of action oriented leadership include extinguishing a rural fire, locating a missing person, leading a team on an outdoor expedition, or rescuing a person from a potentially hazardous environment.\n\nOther examples include modern technology deployments of small/medium-sized IT teams into client plant sites. Leadership of these teams requires hands on experience and a lead-by-example attitude to empower team members to make well thought out and concise decisions independent of executive management and/or home base decision makers. Zachary Hansen was an early adopter of Scrum/Kanban branch development methodologies during the mid 90's to alleviate the dependency that field teams had on trunk based development. This method of just-in-time action oriented development and deployment allowed remote plant sites to deploy up-to-date software patches frequently and without dependency on core team deployment schedules satisfying the clients need to rapidly patch production environment bugs as needed.\n\nCarlyle's 1840 \"Great Man theory\", which emphasized the role of leading individuals, met opposition in the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nKarl Popper noted in 1945 that leaders can mislead and make mistakes - he warns against deferring to \"great men\".\n\nNoam Chomsky and others\nhave subjected the concept of leadership to critical thinking and have provided an analysis that asserts that people abrogate their responsibility to think and will actions for themselves. While the conventional view of leadership may satisfy people who \"want to be told what to do\", these critics say that one should question why they are being subjected to a will or intellect other than their own if the leader is not a subject-matter expert (SME).\n\nConcepts such as autogestion, employeeship, and common civic virtue, etc., challenge the fundamentally anti-democratic nature of the leadership principle by stressing individual responsibility and/or group authority in the workplace and elsewhere and by focusing on the skills and attitudes that a person needs in general rather than separating out \"leadership\" as the basis of a special class of individuals.\n\nSimilarly, various historical calamities (such as World War II) can be attributed\nto a misplaced reliance on the principle of leadership as exhibited in dictatorship.\n\nThe idea of leaderism paints leadership and its excesses in a negative light.\n\nExecutives are energetic, outgoing, and competitive. They can be visionary, hard-working, and decisive. However, managers need to be aware of unsuccessful executives who once showed management potential but who are later dismissed or retired early. They typically fail because of personality factors rather than job performances.\n\n\"Terms fallacies in their thinking are:\"\n\nNotes\nBooks\n\nJournal articles\n"}
{"id": "7074871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074871", "title": "Lighting ratio", "text": "Lighting ratio\n\nLighting ratio in photography refers to the comparison of key light (the main source of light from which shadows fall) to the fill light (the light that fills in the shadow areas). The higher the lighting ratio, the higher the contrast of the image; the lower the ratio, the lower the contrast. Since the lighting ratio is the ratio of the light levels on the brightest lit to the least lit parts of the subject, and the brightest lit are lit by both key (K) and fill (F), therefore the lighting ratio is properly (K+F):F although for contrast ratios of 4:1 or more, then K:F is sufficiently accurate.\n\nLight can be measured in footcandles. A key light of 100 footcandles and a fill light of 100 footcandles have a 1:1 ratio (a ratio of one to one). A keylight of 800 footcandles and a fill light of 200 footcandles has a ratio of 4:1.\n\nThe ratio can be determined in relation to F stops since each increase in f-stop is equal to double the amount of light: 2 to the power of the difference in f stops is equal to the first factor in the ratio. For example, a difference in two f-stops between key and fill is 2 squared, or 4:1 ratio. A difference in 3 stops is 2 cubed, or an 8:1 ratio. No difference is equal to 2 to the power of 0, for a 1:1 ratio.\n\nIn situations such as motion picture lighting sometimes the lighting ratio is described as key plus fill to fill alone. A light meter can automatically calculate the ratio of key plus fill to fill alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "16868392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868392", "title": "List of types of functions", "text": "List of types of functions\n\nFunctions can be identified according to the properties they have. These properties describe the functions behaviour under certain conditions. A parabola is a specific type of function.\n\nThese properties concern the domain, the codomain and the range of functions.\n\nThese properties concern how the function is affected by arithmetic operations on its operand.\n\nThe following are special examples of a homomorphism on a binary operation:\n\nRelative to negation:\n\nRelative to a binary operation and an order:\n\n\nRelative to topology and order:\n\n\n\n\n\nRelative to measure and topology\n\n\n\nIn general, functions are often defined by specifying the name of a dependent variable, and a way of calculating what it should map to. For this purpose, the formula_1 symbol or Church's formula_2 is often used. Also, sometimes mathematicians notate a function's domain and codomain by writing e.g. formula_3. These notions extend directly to lambda calculus and type theory, respectively.\n\nThese are functions that operate on functions or produce other functions, see Higher order function.\nExamples are:\n\n\nCategory theory is a branch of mathematics that formalizes the notion of a special function via arrows or morphisms. A category is an algebraic object that (abstractly) consists of a class of \"objects\", and for every pair of objects, a set of \"morphisms\". A partial (equiv. dependently typed) binary operation called composition is provided on morphisms, every object has one special morphism from it to itself called the identity on that object, and composition and identities are required to obey certain relations.\n\nIn a so-called concrete category, the objects are associated with mathematical structures like sets, magmas, groups, rings, topological spaces, vector spaces, metric spaces, partial orders, differentiable manifolds, uniform spaces, etc., and morphisms between two objects are associated with \"structure-preserving functions\" between them. In the examples above, these would be functions, magma homomorphisms, group homomorphisms, ring homomorphisms, continuous functions, linear transformations (or matrices), metric maps, monotonic functions, differentiable functions, and uniformly continuous functions, respectively.\n\nAs an algebraic theory, one of the advantages of category theory is to enable one to prove many general results with a minimum of assumptions. Many common notions from mathematics (e.g. surjective, injective, free object, basis, finite representation, isomorphism) are definable purely in category theoretic terms (cf. monomorphism, epimorphism).\n\nCategory theory has been suggested as a foundation for mathematics on par with set theory and type theory (cf. topos).\n\nAllegory theory provides a generalization comparable to category theory for relations instead of functions.\n\n"}
{"id": "25961213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25961213", "title": "Marta Minujín", "text": "Marta Minujín\n\nMarta Minujín (born 1943) is an Argentine conceptual and performance artist.\n\nMarta Minujín was born in the San Telmo neighborhood of Buenos Aires. She met a young economist, Juan Carlos Gómez Sabaini, and married him in secret in 1959; the couple had two children. As a student in the National University Art Institute, she first exhibited her work in a 1959 show at the Teatro Agón. A scholarship from the National Arts Foundation allowed her to travel to Paris as one of the young Argentine artists featured in \"Pablo Curatella Manes and Thirty Argentines of the New Generation\", a 1960 exhibit organized by the prominent sculptor and Paris Biennale judge.\n\nHer time in Paris inspired her to create \"livable sculptures,\" notably \"La Destrucción\", in which she assembled mattresses along the Impasse Roussin, only to invite other avant-garde artists in her entourage, including Christo and Paul-Armand Gette, to destroy the display. This 1963 creation would be the first of her \"Happenings\"events as works of arts in themselves; among her hosts during her stay was Finance Minister Valéry Giscard d'Estaing (later President of France).\n\nShe earned a National Award in 1964 at Buenos Aires' Torcuato di Tella Institute, where she prepared two happenings: \"Eróticos en technicolor\" and the interactive \"Revuélquese y viva\" (\"Roll Around in Bed and Live\"). Her \"Cabalgata\" (\"Cavalcade\") aired on Public Television that year, and involved horses with paint buckets tied to their tails. These displays took her to nearby Montevideo, where she organized \"Sucesos\" (\"Events\") at the Uruguayan capital's Tróccoli Stadium with 500 chickens, artists of contrasting physical shape, motorcycles, and other elements.\n\nShe joined Rubén Santantonín at the di Tella Institute in 1965 to create \"La Menesunda\" (\"Mayhem\"), where participants were asked to go through sixteen chambers, each separated by a human-shaped entry. Led by neon lights, groups of eight visitors would encounter rooms with television sets at full blast, couples making love in bed, a cosmetics counter (complete with an attendant), a dental office from which dialing an oversized rotary phone was required to leave, a walk-in freezer with dangling fabrics (suggesting sides of beef), and a mirrored room with black lighting, falling confetti, and the scent of frying food. The use of advertising throughout suggested the influence of pop art in Minujín's \"mayhem.\"\n\nThese works earned her a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1966, by which she relocated to New York City. The \"coup d'état\" by General Juan Carlos Onganía in June of that year made her fellowship all the more fortuitous, as the new regime would frequently censor and ban irreverent displays such as hers. Minujín delved into psychedelic art in New York, of which among her best-known creations was that of the \"Minuphone,\" where patrons could enter a telephone booth, dial a number, and be surprised by colors projecting from the glass panels, sounds, and seeing themselves on a television screen in the floor. The Minuphone was designed and constructed, in collaboration with her, by engineer Per Biorn, who was employed at Bell Telephone Laboratories, and the work was shown at the Howard Wise Gallery in New York City. She was on hand in 1971 for the Buenos Aires premiere of \"Operación Perfume\", and in New York, befriended fellow conceptual artist Andy Warhol.\n\nShe returned to Argentina in 1976, and afterwards created a series of reproductions of classical Greek sculptures in plaster of paris, as well as miniatures of the Buenos Aires Obelisk carved out of panettone, of the Venus de Milo carved from cheese, and of Tango vocalist Carlos Gardel for a 1981 display in Medellín. The latter, a sheet metal creation, was stuffed with cotton and lit, creating a metaphor for the legendary crooner's untimely 1935 death in a Medellín plane crash. She was awarded the first of a series of Konex Awards, the highest in the Argentine cultural realm, in 1982.\n\nThe return of democracy in 1983, following seven years of a generally failed dictatorship, prompted Minujín to create a monument to a glaring, inanimate victim of the regime: freedom of expression. Assembling 30,000 banned books (including works as diverse as those by Freud, Marx, Sartre, Gramsci, Foucault, Raúl Scalabrini Ortiz, and Darcy Ribeiro, as well as satires such as \"Absalom and Achitophel\", reference volumes such as \"Enciclopedia Salvat\", and even children's texts, notably \"The Little Prince\" by Antoine de Saint Exupéry), she designed the \"Parthenon of Books,\" and following President Raúl Alfonsín's December 10 inaugural, had it mounted on a boulevard median along the Ninth of July Avenue. Dismantled after three weeks, its mass of newly unbanned titles was distributed to the public below.\n\nA conversation with Warhol in New York regarding the Latin American debt crisis inspired one of her most publicized \"happenings:\" \"The Debt\". Purchasing a shipment of maize, Minujín dramatized the Argentine cost of servicing the foreign debt with a 1985 photo series in which she symbolically handed the maize to Warhol \"in payment\" for the debt; she never again saw Warhol, who died in 1987.\n\nMinujín has continued to display her art pieces and happenings in the Buenos Aires Museum of Modern Art, the National Fine Arts Museum, the ArteBA contemporary art festival Buenos Aires, the Barbican Center, and a vast number of other international galleries and art shows, while continuing to satirize consumer culture (particularly relating to women). She is well known for her belief that \"everything is art.\" \n"}
{"id": "58420390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58420390", "title": "Object Co-segmentation", "text": "Object Co-segmentation\n\nIn computer vision, object co-segmentation is a special case of image segmentation, which is defined as jointly segmenting semantically similar objects in multiple images or video frames.\n\nIt is often challenging to extract segmentation masks of a target/object from a noisy collection of images or video frames, which involves object discovery coupled with segmentation. A noisy collection implies that the object/target is present sporadically in a set of images or the object/target disappears intermittently throughout the video of interest.\n\nA joint object discover and co-segmentation method based on coupled dynamic Markov Networks has been proposed recently, which claims significant improvements in robustness against irrelevant/noisy video frames.\n\nIn action localization applications, \"object co-segmentation\" is also implemented as the Segment-Tube spatio-temporal detector. Inspired by the recent spatio-temporal action localization efforts with tubelets (sequences of bounding boxes), Le \"et al.\" present a new spatio-temporal action localization detector Segment-tube, which consists of sequences of per-frame segmentation masks. This Segment-tube detector can temporally pinpoint the starting/ending frame of each action category in the presence of preceding/subsequent interference actions in untrimmed videos. Simultaneously, the Segment-tube detector produces per-frame segmentation masks instead of bounding boxes, offering superior spatial accuracy to tubelets. This is achieved by alternating iterative optimization between temporal action localization and spatial action segmentation.\nThe proposed Segment-tube detector is illustrated in the flowchart on the right. The sample input is an untrimmed video containing all frames in a pair figure skating video, with only a portion of these frames belonging to a relevant category (e.g., the DeathSpirals). Initialized with saliency based image segmentation on individual frames, this method first performs temporal action localization step with a cascaded 3D CNN and LSTM, and pinpoints the starting frame and the ending frame of a target action with a coarse-to-fine strategy. Subsequently, the Segment-tube detector refines per-frame spatial segmentation with graph cut by focusing on relevant frames identified by the temporal action localization step. The optimization alternates between the temporal action localization and spatial action segmentation in an iterative manner. Upon practical convergence, the final spatio-temporal action localization results are obtained in the format of a sequence of per-frame segmentation masks (bottom row in the flowchart) with precise starting/ending frames. \n\n"}
{"id": "49516442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49516442", "title": "Phylogenetic inertia", "text": "Phylogenetic inertia\n\nPhylogenetic inertia or phylogenetic constraint refers to the limitations on the future evolutionary pathways that have been imposed by previous adaptations.\n\nCharles Darwin first recognized this phenomenon, though the term was later coined by Huber in 1939. Darwin explained the idea of phylogenetic inertia based on his observations; he spoke about it when explaining the \"Law of Conditions of Existence\". Darwin also suggested that, after speciation, the organisms do not start over from scratch, but have characteristics that are built upon already existing ones that were inherited from their ancestors; and these characteristics likely limit the amount of evolution seen in that new taxa. This is the main concept of phylogenetic inertia.\n\nRichard Dawkins also explained these constraints by likening natural selection to a river in his 1982 book \"The Extended Phenotype\".\n\n\nBirds are the only speciose group of vertebrates that are exclusively oviparous, or egg laying. It has been suggested that birds are phylogenetically constrained, as being derived from reptiles, and likely have not overcome this constraint or diverged far enough away to develop viviparity, or live birth.\n\n\n\nThere have been several studies that have been able to effectively test for phylogenetic inertia when looking into shared traits; predominantly with a comparative methods approach. Some have used comparative methods and found evidence for certain traits attributed to adaptation, and some to phylogeny; there were also numerous traits that could be attributed to both. Another study developed a new method of comparative examination that showed to be a powerful predictor of phylogenetic inertia in a variety of situations. It was called Phylogenetic Eigenvector Regression (PVR), which runs principal component analyses between species on a pairwise phylogenetic distance matrix. In another, different study, the authors described methods for measuring phylogenetic inertia, looked at effectiveness of various comparative methods, and found that different methods can reveal different aspects of drivers. Autoregression and PVR showed good results with morphological traits.\n"}
{"id": "4829036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4829036", "title": "Problem of mental causation", "text": "Problem of mental causation\n\nThe problem of mental causation is a conceptual issue in the philosophy of mind. That problem, in short, is how to account for the common-sense idea that intentional thoughts or intentional mental states are causes of intentional actions. The problem divides into several distinct sub-problems, including the problem of causal exclusion, the problem of anomalism, and the problem of externalism. However, the sub-problem which has attracted most attention in the philosophical literature is arguably the exclusion problem.\n\nThe basic problem of mental causation is an intuitive one: on the face of it, it seems that mental events cause physical events (and vice versa), but how can mental events have any causal effect on physical events? Suppose, for example, some person, John, orders dessert after dinner. It seems that at least one cause for such a physical, behavioral event is that John desired to have dessert and believed that by ordering dessert he would be able to soon have dessert. But, how can such mental events as beliefs and desires cause John's mouth to move in such a way that he orders dessert?\n\nWhat follows is a summary of the causal exclusion problem in its simplest form, and it is merely one of several possible formulations.\n\nTo the extent that we do \"not\" have to go outside human physiology in order to trace the causal antecedents of any bodily movement, intentional action can be fully causally explained by the existence of these physiological antecedents \"alone\". No mention of mental states need enter into the explanation. This troubles philosophers because intuitively it seems that mental states are crucial in causing a person to act (for example, their beliefs and desires). But, given that physiological facts are sufficient to account for action, mental states appear to be superfluous; they are at risk of being causally and explanatorily irrelevant with respect to human action .\n\nMany philosophers consider this apparent irrelevance to be a highly counter-intuitive and undesirable position to take. It ultimately leads to epiphenomenalism—the view that mental events or states are causally irrelevant, they are merely after effects that play no role in any causal chains whatsoever. Thomas Huxley famously noted that epiphenomenalism treats mental states like the steam coming off a train: it plays no causal role in the train's moving forward, it is merely an \"emergent property\" of the actual causation occurring in the engine .\n\nAnother problem with mental causation is that mental events seem anomalous in the sense that there are no scientific laws that mental states can figure into without having exceptions. There are no \"strict\" laws, and mental events must factor into strict laws in order to fit respectably into the causal order described by current science [see ].\n\nIn short, one response has been to deny that psychological laws involving mental states require strict, exceptionless laws. Jerry Fodor argues that non-basic (or \"special\") sciences do not in fact require strict laws . In current practice, special sciences (for example, biology and chemistry) have \"ceteris paribus\" laws (or laws with \"all else being equal\" clauses), according to which there are exceptions. However, only in the basic sciences (physics) are there strict, exceptionless laws. Thus, although mental states are anomalous, they can still figure into scientifically respectable laws of psychology.\n\nIn the latter half of the twentieth century externalism about meaning became espoused by many philosophers. Externalism is roughly the view that certain parts of an individual's environment play a crucial role in the meaning of at least some of an individual's words [see and ]. A thesis about meaning affects the mind insofar as our thoughts are \"about\" things in the world. A common view in the philosophy of mind is that at least certain mental states have intentional content in this sense. For example, one's belief that water is wet has the semantic content of \"water is wet\". The thought is about water and the fact that it is wet. But, if externalism is true—if some of the contents of one's thoughts are constituted at least in part by factors external to one's mind—then there is yet another difficulty in explaining how mental states can cause physical states ].\n\nCausal exclusion is only a problem for mental causation if you are an advocate for physicalism. I will begin with Jaegwon Kim’s causal exclusion argument which states that if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, and no physical effects are caused twice over by distinct physical and mental causes, there cannot be any irreducible mental causes (Kallestrup 2006). First of all, the antecedent of the causal exclusion argument is the definition of physicalism. Kim states that if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes. This statement alone negates dualism, idealism and mental causation. Whereas, it is redundant to state the remaining of the causal exclusion argument because if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, then no physical effects would be caused twice over by any substance other than physical. Also, if all physical effects have sufficient physical causes, then there clearly would not be any reducible or irreducible mental causes. Secondly, if a person does not support physicalism, then they are not going to support the view that all physical effects have sufficient physical causes. Lastly, physicalism is the hypothesis that the mind is the same as the brain and/or the mental supervenes on the physical, yet it is not fact. Therefore, to use the hypothesis of causal exclusion as evidence to counter mental causation is no different than using \"the popper's three world formulation\" or \"psychological nativism\" (as shown in this section) to support mental causation.\n\nIt is an arduous task to prove mental causation within the realms of a physical body. Yet, every human has witnessed mental causation within the human body. Let us view the advent of crying. Crying is a physical effect coupled with either a physical cause or a mental (emotional) cause. There are three types of tears: basal tears, reflex tears, and emotional tears (Hoyt 2008). Basal tears keep our eyes from drying out, reflex tears are in response to eye irritants (physical causation), and emotional tears are a result of mental causation such as sadness, joy, etc (Hoyt 2008). I am going to focus on the latter, emotional tears. Once sadness is registered in the cerebrum, the endocrine system releases hormones to the ocular area, and tears are formed (Hoyt 2008). Crying due to one's mental state is an event that is common across all cultures and demographics. Whether we cry due to sadness or joy, these are all events that have their origination in mental causation. It would be inhuman to claim otherwise.\n\nHow Emotions are Made: The Secret Life of the Brain by Lisa Feldman Barrett for a rigorous discussion. One’s crying is not planned, unless one is an actor, then we are able to tap into the mechanism that causes tears to flow. Otherwise it just happens outside of out awareness of causing it by thinking. The brain has patterns of neurons that once activated generate physiologic responses that happens up to 10 seconds before we are aware. (Koch, Christof. 2012. “How Physics and Neuroscience Dictate Your “Free” Will”. Scientific American: April 12.) and many others.\n\nSome have claimed that while the mental and the physical are quite different things, they can nonetheless causally interact with one another, a view going back to Descartes [, especially meditations II & VI]. This view is known as \"interactionist dualism\". The major problem that interactionist dualism faces is that of explicating a satisfactory notion of causation according to which non-spatial events, such as mental events, can causally interact with physical events. According to the current mainstream scientific world-view, the physical realm is \"causally closed\", in that causal relationships only hold among physical events in the physical realm. Given these types of considerations, some argue that it is appropriate to say that the main assumptions in interactionist dualism generate the problem of mental causation rather than solve it (see .\n\nThe other major option is to assert that mental events are either (at least contingently) identical to physical events, or supervene on physical events. Views that fall under this general heading are called physicalism or materialism. But, such views require a particular theory to explain how mental events are physical in nature. One such theory is behaviorism. Behaviorists, in general, argue that mental events are merely dispositions to behave in certain ways. Another theory is the identity theory, according to which mental events are (either type- or token-) identical to physical events. A more recent view, known as functionalism, claims that mental events are individuated (or constituted by) the causal role they play. As such, mental events would fit directly into the causal realm, as they are simply certain causal (or functional) roles. Finally, there is eliminative materialism, which simply denies that there are any such mental events; thus, there is really no problem of mental causation at all.\n\nRelated to dualism above, a more general and somewhat differently posed approach to mental causation is provided by Karl Popper's three worlds. Popper split the world into three categories:\n\nWorld 3 includes physical theory as a particular case. But World 3 is a creation of the human imagination, and such acts of imagination are a part of World 2. Accordingly, one could argue that the physical notion of causality is a child of the imagination, and although causation has its successes in describing World 1, it may not apply to World 2 or World 3. The subjective aspects of theories contained in World 3 are not readily framed within the third-person perspective of science used to explain World 1.\n\nFrom this perspective, it is hubris to suppose that the methods successful in describing World 1, in particular to suppose the notions of \"cause\" and \"effect\", invented by World 2 in its creation of the theory of World 3 used to explain World 1, have direct application to Worlds 2 and 3 themselves, and control mental agency.\n\nA still different approach to mental causation is based upon the philosophies of Kant, Chomsky and Pinker. These philosophers stress the impact of built-in aspects of mind, studied in the field of psychological nativism.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) pointed out that we all shape our experience of things through the filter of our mind, a view sometimes called epistemological solipsism. The mind shapes that experience, and among other things, Kant believed the concepts of \"space\" and \"time\" were programmed into the human brain, as was the notion of \"cause\" and \"effect\". We never have \"direct\" experience of things, the \"noumenal\" world, and what we do experience is the \"phenomenal\" world as conveyed by our senses, this conveyance processed by the machinery of the mind and nervous system. Kant focused upon this processing. Kant believed in \"a priori\" knowledge arrived at independent of experience, so-called \"synthetic\" \"a priori\" knowledge. In particular, he thought that by introspection some aspects of the filtering mechanisms of the mind/brain/nervous system could be discovered. The following observations summarize Kant's views upon the subject-object problem, called Kant's Copernican revolution: \n\nAlthough Kant has posed the issue of built-in aspects of mind, the particulars that depend upon the science of his day have become outmoded. A more recent approach to these limitations is proposed by Noam Chomsky and Steven Pinker. Like Kant, Noam Chomsky raised the issue of the mind's inherent programming. Chomsky selected as a particular example the acquiring of language by children. Of course, language is indispensable in the formulation and communication of our perceptions of the objective world:\nChomsky marshaled evidence that a child's rapid mastery of the complexity of language indicated an innate ability programmed into the development of the human mind from birth that could not be explained by the \"blank slate\" view of the infant mind. Rather, the mind has a built-in propensity to process symbolic representations. The origins of this ability were sought by Steven Pinker in a Darwinian struggle that established the survival value of the ability to communicate. According to Pinker, Charles Darwin himself \"concluded that language ability is 'an instinctive tendency to acquire an art', a design that is not peculiar to humans but seen in other species such as song-learning birds.\" This observation is strongly supported by research on crows.\n\nThis work can be taken to suggest that although a physical theory is an intermediary between our observations and our notions of connections between them, it is an elaborate mental construction that is a meld of the way the mind works and objective observations. Although a physical theory is used to determine connections about objective events, the specific form of the theoretical construct is a product of subjective activities, and this particular form may well involve the workings of the brain. Perhaps some aspects of the universe's operation can be expressed in terms of mental constructs, but this process is analogous with the expression of a computer algorithm in terms of assembly language instructions peculiar to a particular computer, a translation by a compiler of the general statement of an algorithm into specific tiny steps that particular computer can handle.\n\nFrom this standpoint, as with the philosophy of Kant, the first-person active actions of mental causation may involve innate workings of the brain itself.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390403", "title": "Red-billed gull", "text": "Red-billed gull\n\nThe red-billed gull (\"Chroicocephalus novaehollandiae scopulinus\"), once also known as the mackerel gull, is a native of New Zealand, being found throughout the country and on outlying islands including the Chatham Islands and subantarctic islands. It was formerly considered as a separate species but is now usually treated as a subspecies of the silver gull (\"Chroicocephalus novaehollandiae\").\n\nThe Māori name of this species is tarapunga or akiaki. Its vernacular name is sometimes also used for the dolphin gull, a somewhat similar-looking but unrelated species. As is the case with many gulls, the red-billed gull has traditionally been placed in the genus \"Larus\".\n\nThe red-billed gull is a fairly small gull with an all-red bill, red eye ring, red legs and feet, pale grey wings with black wingtips. The rest of the body and tail are white. There is virtually no visual difference between the male and female birds. Juvenile gulls have a dark brown bill with only hints of red, making them difficult to distinguish from the black-billed gull. The legs are also brown and there are brown spots on the grey wings.\n\nIt is the smallest gull commonly seen in New Zealand; a recent estimate of the population puts it at half a million birds in the country. Until recently it was regarded as a subspecies of the silver gull found in Australia, and the two species are very similar in appearance. However the most recent research suggests that they are not particularly closely related.\n\nBehaviourally, the red-billed gull is a typical gull. It is an aggressive scavenger and kleptoparasite. Since European settlement its numbers have increased, especially around coastal towns and cities where it can scavenge from urban waste. It normally feeds on small fish, shell fish and worms (from pastures), and sometimes berries, lizards and insects.\n\nThey nest from October to December in colonies on the coast, either on islands or rocky headlands, cliffs and beaches. The birds form pair bonds which endure across seasons, but there is a certain amount of extra-pair copulation. Courtship feeding is an important part of the preparation for mating. Nests are well formed and may be constructed of seaweed, grasses, leaves and ice plants. Generally two to three eggs are laid, their colour ranges from brown to grey with light and dark brown spots all over. The bird generally lives up to 12 years, although individuals have also been found living up to 30 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "48404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48404", "title": "Ring (mathematics)", "text": "Ring (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, a ring is one of the fundamental algebraic structures used in abstract algebra. It consists of a set equipped with two binary operations that generalize the arithmetic operations of addition and multiplication. Through this generalization, theorems from arithmetic are extended to non-numerical objects such as polynomials, series, matrices and functions.\n\nA ring is an abelian group with a second binary operation that is associative, is distributive over the abelian group operation, and has an identity element (this last property is not required by some authors, see ). By extension from the integers, the abelian group operation is called \"addition\" and the second binary operation is called \"multiplication\".\n\nWhether a ring is commutative or not (i.e., whether the order in which two elements are multiplied changes the result or not) has profound implications on its behavior as an abstract object. As a result, commutative ring theory, commonly known as commutative algebra, is a key topic in ring theory. Its development has been greatly influenced by problems and ideas occurring naturally in algebraic number theory and algebraic geometry. Examples of commutative rings include the set of integers equipped with the addition and multiplication operations, the set of polynomials equipped with their addition and multiplication, the coordinate ring of an affine algebraic variety, and the ring of integers of a number field. Examples of noncommutative rings include the ring of \"n\" × \"n\" real square matrices with \"n\" ≥ 2, group rings in representation theory, operator algebras in functional analysis, rings of differential operators in the theory of differential operators, and the cohomology ring of a topological space in topology.\n\nThe conceptualization of rings began in the 1870s and was completed in the 1920s. Key contributors include Dedekind, Hilbert, Fraenkel, and Noether. Rings were first formalized as a generalization of Dedekind domains that occur in number theory, and of polynomial rings and rings of invariants that occur in algebraic geometry and invariant theory. Afterward, they also proved to be useful in other branches of mathematics such as geometry and mathematical analysis.\n\nThe most familiar example of a ring is the set of all integers, formula_1, consisting of the numbers\n\nThe familiar properties for addition and multiplication of integers serve as a model for the axioms for rings.\n\nA ring is a set \"R\" equipped with two binary operations + and · satisfying the following three sets of axioms, called the ring axioms\n\n1. \"R\" is an abelian group under addition, meaning that:\n2. \"R\" is a monoid under multiplication, meaning that:\n3. Multiplication is distributive with respect to addition:\n\nAs explained in below, many authors follow an alternative convention in which a ring is not defined to have a multiplicative identity. This article adopts the convention that, unless otherwise stated, a ring is assumed to have such an identity. A structure satisfying all the axioms \"except\" the requirement that there exists a multiplicative identity element is called a rng (commonly pronounced \"rung\", and sometimes called a pseudo-ring). For example, the set of even integers with the usual + and ⋅ is a rng, but not a ring.\n\nThe operations + and ⋅ are called \"addition\" and \"multiplication\", respectively. The multiplication symbol ⋅ is often omitted, so the juxtaposition of ring elements is interpreted as multiplication. For example, \"xy\" means .\n\nAlthough ring addition is commutative, ring multiplication is not required to be commutative: \"ab\" need not necessarily equal \"ba\". Rings that also satisfy commutativity for multiplication (such as the ring of integers) are called commutative rings. Books on commutative algebra or algebraic geometry often adopt the convention that \"ring\" means \"commutative ring\", to simplify terminology.\n\nIn a ring, multiplication does not have to have an inverse. A (non-trivial) commutative ring such that every nonzero element has a multiplicative inverse is called a field.\n\nThe additive group of a ring is the ring equipped just with the structure of addition. Although the definition assumes that the additive group is abelian, this can be inferred from the other ring axioms.\n\nSome basic properties of a ring follow immediately from the axioms:\n\nEquip the set formula_2 with the following operations:\n\n\nThen Z is a ring: each axiom follows from the corresponding axiom for Z. If \"x\" is an integer, the remainder of \"x\" when divided by 4 may be considered as an element of Z, and this element is often denoted by or formula_9, which is consistent with the notation for 0,1,2,3. The additive inverse of any formula_9 in Z is formula_11. For example, formula_12\n\nThe set of 2-by-2 matrices with real number entries is written\n\nWith the operations of matrix addition and matrix multiplication, this set satisfies the above ring axioms. The element formula_14 is the multiplicative identity of the ring. If formula_15 and formula_16, then formula_17 while formula_18; this example shows that the ring is noncommutative.\n\nMore generally, for any ring \"R\", commutative or not, and any nonnegative integer \"n\", one may form the ring of \"n\"-by-\"n\" matrices with entries in \"R\": see Matrix ring.\n\nThe study of rings originated from the theory of polynomial rings and the theory of algebraic integers. In 1871, Richard Dedekind defined the concept of the ring of integers of a number field. In this context, he introduced the terms \"ideal\" (inspired by Ernst Kummer's notion of ideal number) and \"module\" and studied their properties. But Dedekind did not use the term \"ring\" and did not define the concept of a ring in a general setting.\n\nThe term \"Zahlring\" (number ring) was coined by David Hilbert in 1892 and published in 1897. In 19th century German, the word \"Ring\" could mean \"association\", which is still used today in English in a limited sense (e.g., spy ring), so if that were the etymology then it would be similar to the way \"group\" entered mathematics by being a non-technical word for \"collection of related things\". According to Harvey Cohn, Hilbert used the term for a ring that had the property of \"circling directly back\" to an element of itself. Specifically, in a ring of algebraic integers, all high powers of an algebraic integer can be written as an integral combination of a fixed set of lower powers, and thus the powers \"cycle back\". For instance, if then , , , , , and so on; in general, \"a\" is going to be an integral linear combination of 1, \"a\", and \"a\".\n\nThe first axiomatic definition of a ring was given by Adolf Fraenkel in 1914, but his axioms were stricter than those in the modern definition. For instance, he required every non-zero-divisor to have a multiplicative inverse. In 1921, Emmy Noether gave the modern axiomatic definition of (commutative) ring and developed the foundations of commutative ring theory in her paper \"Idealtheorie in Ringbereichen\".\n\nFraenkel required a ring to have a multiplicative identity 1, whereas Noether did not.\n\nMost or all books on algebra up to around 1960 followed Noether's convention of not requiring a 1. Starting in the 1960s, it became increasingly common to see books including the existence of 1 in the definition of ring, especially in advanced books by notable authors such as Artin, Atiyah and MacDonald, Bourbaki, Eisenbud, and Lang. But even today, there remain many books that do not require a 1.\n\nFaced with this terminological ambiguity, some authors have tried to impose their views, while others have tried to adopt more precise terms.\n\nIn the first category, we find for instance Gardner and Wiegandt, who argue that if one requires all rings to have a 1, then some consequences include the lack of existence of infinite direct sums of rings, and the fact that proper direct summands of rings are not subrings. They conclude that \"in many, maybe most, branches of ring theory the requirement of the existence of a unity element is not sensible, and therefore unacceptable.\"\n\nIn the second category, we find authors who use the following terms:\n\nCommutative rings:\n\nNoncommutative rings:\n\nNon-rings:\n\nA left zero divisor of a ring formula_26 is a nonzero element formula_27 in the ring such that there exists a nonzero element formula_28 of formula_26 such that formula_30. A right zero divisor is defined similarly.\n\nA nilpotent element is an element formula_27 such that formula_32 for some formula_33. One example of a nilpotent element is a nilpotent matrix. A nilpotent element in a nonzero ring is necessarily a zero divisor.\n\nAn idempotent formula_34 is an element such that formula_35. One example of an idempotent element is a projection in linear algebra.\n\nA unit is an element formula_27 having a multiplicative inverse; in this case the inverse is unique, and is denoted by formula_37. The set of units of a ring is a group under ring multiplication; this group is denoted by formula_38 or formula_39 or formula_40. For example, if \"R\" is the ring of all square matrices of size \"n\" over a field, then formula_38 consists of the set of all invertible matrices of size \"n\", and is called the general linear group.\n\nA subset \"S\" of \"R\" is said to be a subring if it can be regarded as a ring with the addition and the multiplication restricted from \"R\" to \"S\". Equivalently, \"S\" is a subring if it is not empty, and for any \"x\", \"y\" in \"S\", formula_42, formula_43 and formula_44 are in \"S\". If all rings have been assumed, by convention, to have a multiplicative identity, then to be a subring one would also require \"S\" to share the same identity element as \"R\". So if all rings have been assumed to have a multiplicative identity, then a proper ideal is not a subring.\n\nFor example, the ring Z of integers is a subring of the field of real numbers and also a subring of the ring of polynomials Z[\"X\"] (in both cases, Z contains 1, which is the multiplicative identity of the larger rings). On the other hand, the subset of even integers 2Z does not contain the identity element 1 and thus does not qualify as a subring of Z.\n\nAn intersection of subrings is a subring. The smallest subring containing a given subset \"E\" of \"R\" is called a subring generated by \"E\". Such a subring exists since it is the intersection of all subrings containing \"E\".\n\nFor a ring \"R\", the smallest subring containing 1 is called the \"characteristic subring\" of \"R\". It can be obtained by adding copies of 1 and −1 together many times in any mixture. It is possible that formula_45 (\"n\" times) can be zero. If \"n\" is the smallest positive integer such that this occurs, then \"n\" is called the \"characteristic\" of \"R\". In some rings, formula_46 is never zero for any positive integer \"n\", and those rings are said to have \"characteristic zero\".\n\nGiven a ring \"R\", let formula_47 denote the set of all elements \"x\" in \"R\" such that \"x\" commutes with every element in \"R\": formula_48 for any \"y\" in \"R\". Then formula_47 is a subring of \"R\"; called the center of \"R\". More generally, given a subset \"X\" of \"R\", let \"S\" be the set of all elements in \"R\" that commute with every element in \"X\". Then \"S\" is a subring of \"R\", called the centralizer (or commutant) of \"X\". The center is the centralizer of the entire ring \"R\". Elements or subsets of the center are said to be \"central\" in \"R\"; they generate a subring of the center.\n\nThe definition of an ideal in a ring is analogous to that of normal subgroup in a group. But, in actuality, it plays a role of an idealized generalization of an element in a ring; hence, the name \"ideal\". Like elements of rings, the study of ideals is central to structural understanding of a ring.\n\nLet \"R\" be a ring. A nonempty subset \"I\" of \"R\" is then said to be a left ideal in \"R\" if, for any \"x\", \"y\" in \"I\" and \"r\" in \"R\", formula_43 and formula_51 are in \"I\". If formula_52 denotes the span of \"I\" over \"R\"; i.e., the set of finite sums\nthen \"I\" is a left ideal if formula_54. Similarly, \"I\" is said to be right ideal if formula_55. A subset \"I\" is said to be a two-sided ideal or simply ideal if it is both a left ideal and right ideal. A one-sided or two-sided ideal is then an additive subgroup of \"R\". If \"E\" is a subset of \"R\", then formula_56 is a left ideal, called the left ideal generated by \"E\"; it is the smallest left ideal containing \"E\". Similarly, one can consider the right ideal or the two-sided ideal generated by a subset of \"R\".\n\nIf \"x\" is in \"R\", then formula_57 and formula_58 are left ideals and right ideals, respectively; they are called the principal left ideals and right ideals generated by \"x\". The principal ideal formula_59 is written as formula_60. For example, the set of all positive and negative multiples of 2 along with 0 form an ideal of the integers, and this ideal is generated by the integer 2. In fact, every ideal of the ring of integers is principal.\n\nLike a group, a ring is said to be simple if it is nonzero and it has no proper nonzero two-sided ideals. A commutative simple ring is precisely a field.\n\nRings are often studied with special conditions set upon their ideals. For example, a ring in which there is no strictly increasing infinite chain of left ideals is called a left Noetherian ring. A ring in which there is no strictly decreasing infinite chain of left ideals is called a left Artinian ring. It is a somewhat surprising fact that a left Artinian ring is left Noetherian (the Hopkins–Levitzki theorem). The integers, however, form a Noetherian ring which is not Artinian.\n\nFor commutative rings, the ideals generalize the classical notion of divisibility and decomposition of an integer into prime numbers in algebra. A proper ideal \"P\" of \"R\" is called a prime ideal if for any elements formula_61 we have that formula_62 implies either formula_63 or formula_64. Equivalently, \"P\" is prime if for any ideals formula_65 we have that formula_66 implies either formula_67 or formula_68 This latter formulation illustrates the idea of ideals as generalizations of elements.\n\nA homomorphism from a ring (\"R\", +, ·) to a ring (\"S\", ‡, *) is a function \"f\" from \"R\" to \"S\" that preserves the ring operations; namely, such that, for all \"a\", \"b\" in \"R\" the following identities hold:\n\n\nIf one is working with not necessarily unital rings, then the third condition is dropped.\n\nA ring homomorphism is said to be an isomorphism if there exists an inverse homomorphism to \"f\" (i.e., a ring homomorphism which is an inverse function). Any bijective ring homomorphism is a ring isomorphism. Two rings formula_69 are said to be isomorphic if there is an isomorphism between them and in that case one writes formula_70. A ring homomorphism between the same ring is called an endomorphism and an isomorphism between the same ring an automorphism.\n\nExamples:\n\nGiven a ring homomorphism formula_76, the set of all elements mapped to 0 by \"f\" is called the kernel of \"f\". The kernel is a two-sided ideal of \"R\". The image of \"f\", on the other hand, is not always an ideal, but it is always a subring of \"S\".\n\nTo give a ring homomorphism from a commutative ring \"R\" to a ring \"A\" with image contained in the center of \"A\" is the same as to give a structure of an algebra over \"R\" to \"A\" (in particular gives a structure of \"A\"-module).\n\nThe quotient ring of a ring, is analogous to the notion of a quotient group of a group. More formally, given a ring (\"R\", +, · ) and a two-sided ideal \"I\" of (\"R\", +, · ), the quotient ring (or factor ring) \"R/I\" is the set of cosets of \"I\" (with respect to the additive group of (\"R\", +, · ); i.e. cosets with respect to (\"R\", +)) together with the operations:\n\nfor every \"a\", \"b\" in \"R\".\n\nLike the case of a quotient group, there is a canonical map formula_77 given by formula_78. It is surjective and satisfies the universal property: if formula_76 is a ring homomorphism such that formula_80, then there is a unique formula_81\nsuch that formula_82. In particular, taking \"I\" to be the kernel, one sees that the quotient ring formula_83 is isomorphic to the image of \"f\"; the fact known as the first isomorphism theorem. The last fact implies that actually \"any\" surjective ring homomorphism satisfies the universal property since the image of such a map is a quotient ring.\nThe concept of a \"module over a ring\" generalizes the concept of a vector space (over a field) by generalizing from multiplication of vectors with elements of a field (scalar multiplication) to multiplication with elements of a ring. More precisely, given a ring with 1, an -module is an abelian group equipped with an operation (associating an element of to every pair of an element of and an element of ) that satisfies certain axioms. This operation is commonly denoted multiplicatively and called multiplication. The axioms of modules are the following: for all in and all in , we have:\nWhen the ring is noncommutative these axioms define \"left modules\"; \"right modules\" are defined similarly by writing instead of . This is not only a change of notation, as the last axiom of right modules (that is ) becomes , if left multiplication (by ring elements) is used for a right module.\n\nBasic examples of modules are ideals, including the ring itself.\n\nAlthough similarly defined, the theory of modules is much more complicated than that of vector space, mainly, because, unlike vector spaces, modules are not characterized (up to an isomorphism) by a single invariant (the dimension of a vector space). In particular, not all modules have a basis.\n\nThe axioms of modules imply that , where the first minus denotes the additive inverse in the ring and the second minus the additive inverse in the module. Using this and denoting repeated addition by a multiplication by a positive integer allows identifying abelian groups with modules over the ring of integers.\n\nAny ring homomorphism induces a structure of a module: if is a ring homomorphism, then is a left module over by the multiplication: . If is commutative or if is contained in the center of , the ring is called a -algebra. In particular, every ring is an algebra over the integers.\n\nLet \"R\" and \"S\" be rings. Then the product can be equipped with the following natural ring structure:\n\n\nfor every \"r\", \"r\" in \"R\" and \"s\", \"s\" in \"S\". The ring with the above operations of addition and multiplication and the multiplicative identity formula_88 is called the direct product of \"R\" with \"S\". The same construction also works for an arbitrary family of rings: if formula_89 are rings indexed by a set \"I\", then formula_90 is a ring with componentwise addition and multiplication.\n\nLet \"R\" be a commutative ring and formula_91 be ideals such that formula_92 whenever formula_93. Then the Chinese remainder theorem says there is a canonical ring isomorphism:\n\nA \"finite\" direct product may also be viewed as a direct sum of ideals. Namely, let formula_95 be rings, formula_96 the inclusions with the images formula_97 (in particular formula_97 are rings though not subrings). Then formula_97 are ideals of \"R\" and\nas a direct sum of abelian groups (because for abelian groups finite products are the same as direct sums). Clearly the direct sum of such ideals also defines a product of rings that is isomorphic to \"R\". Equivalently, the above can be done through central idempotents. Assume \"R\" has the above decomposition. Then we can write\nBy the conditions on formula_97, one has that formula_103 are central idempotents and formula_104 (orthogonal). Again, one can reverse the construction. Namely, if one is given a partition of 1 in orthogonal central idempotents, then let formula_105, which are two-sided ideals. If each formula_103 is not a sum of orthogonal central idempotents, then their direct sum is isomorphic to \"R\".\n\nAn important application of an infinite direct product is the construction of a projective limit of rings (see below). Another application is a restricted product of a family of rings (cf. adele ring).\n\nGiven a symbol \"t\" (called a variable) and a commutative ring \"R\", the set of polynomials\n\nforms a commutative ring with the usual addition and multiplication, containing \"R\" as a subring. It is called the polynomial ring over \"R\". More generally, the set formula_108 of all polynomials in variables formula_109 forms a commutative ring, containing formula_110 as subrings.\n\nIf \"R\" is an integral domain, then formula_111 is also an integral domain; its field of fractions is the field of rational functions. If \"R\" is a noetherian ring, then formula_111 is a noetherian ring. If \"R\" is a unique factorization domain, then formula_111 is a unique factorization domain. Finally, \"R\" is a field if and only if formula_111 is a principal ideal domain.\n\nLet formula_115 be commutative rings. Given an element \"x\" of \"S\", one can consider the ring homomorphism\n(i.e., the substitution). If \"S\"=\"R\"[\"t\"] and \"x\"=\"t\", then \"f\"(\"t\")=\"f\". Because of this, the polynomial \"f\" is often also denoted by formula_117. The image of the map formula_118 is denoted by formula_119; it is the same thing as the subring of \"S\" generated by \"R\" and \"x\".\n\nExample: formula_120 denotes the image of the homomorphism\nIn other words, it is the subalgebra of formula_122 generated by \"t\" and \"t\".\n\nExample: let \"f\" be a polynomial in one variable; i.e., an element in a polynomial ring \"R\". Then formula_123 is an element in formula_124 and formula_125 is divisible by \"h\" in that ring. The result of substituting zero to \"h\" in formula_126 is formula_127, the derivative of \"f\" at \"x\".\n\nThe substitution is a special case of the universal property of a polynomial ring. The property states: given a ring homomorphism formula_128 and an element \"x\" in \"S\" there exists a unique ring homomorphism formula_129 such that formula_130 and formula_131 restricts to formula_132. For example, choosing a basis, a symmetric algebra satisfies the universal property and so is a polynomial ring.\n\nTo give an example, let \"S\" be the ring of all functions from \"R\" to itself; the addition and the multiplication are those of functions. Let \"x\" be the identity function. Each \"r\" in \"R\" defines a constant function, giving rise to the homomorphism formula_133. The universal property says that this map extends uniquely to\n(\"t\" maps to \"x\") where formula_135 is the polynomial function defined by \"f\". The resulting map is injective if and only if \"R\" is infinite.\n\nGiven a non-constant monic polynomial \"f\" in formula_111, there exists a ring \"S\" containing \"R\" such that \"f\" is a product of linear factors in formula_137.\n\nLet \"k\" be an algebraically closed field. The Hilbert's Nullstellensatz (theorem of zeros) states that there is a natural one-to-one correspondence between the set of all prime ideals in formula_138 and the set of closed subvarieties of formula_139. In particular, many local problems in algebraic geometry may be attacked through the study of the generators of an ideal in a polynomial ring. (cf. Gröbner basis.)\n\nThere are some other related constructions. A formal power series ring formula_140 consists of formal power series\ntogether with multiplication and addition that mimic those for convergent series. It contains formula_111 as a subring. Note a formal power series ring does not have the universal property of a polynomial ring; a series may not converge after a substitution. The important advantage of a formal power series ring over a polynomial ring is that it is local (in fact, complete).\n\nLet \"R\" be a ring (not necessarily commutative). The set of all square matrices of size \"n\" with entries in \"R\" forms a ring with the entry-wise addition and the usual matrix multiplication. It is called the matrix ring and is denoted by M(\"R\"). Given a right \"R\"-module formula_143, the set of all \"R\"-linear maps from \"U\" to itself forms a ring with addition that is of function and multiplication that is of composition of functions; it is called the endomorphism ring of \"U\" and is denoted by formula_144.\n\nAs in linear algebra, a matrix ring may be canonically interpreted as an endomorphism ring: formula_145. This is a special case of the following fact: If formula_146 is an \"R\"-linear map, then \"f\" may be written as a matrix with entries formula_147 in formula_148, resulting in the ring isomorphism:\n\nAny ring homomorphism \"R\" → \"S\" induces ; in fact, any ring homomorphism between matrix rings arises in this way.\n\nSchur's lemma says that if \"U\" is a simple right \"R\"-module, then formula_144 is a division ring. If formula_151 is a direct sum of \"m\"-copies of simple \"R\"-modules formula_152, then\nThe Artin–Wedderburn theorem states any semisimple ring (cf. below) is of this form.\n\nA ring \"R\" and the matrix ring M(\"R\") over it are Morita equivalent: the category of right modules of \"R\" is equivalent to the category of right modules over M(\"R\"). In particular, two-sided ideals in \"R\" correspond in one-to-one to two-sided ideals in M(\"R\").\n\nExamples:\n\nLet \"R\" be a sequence of rings such that \"R\" is a subring of \"R\" for all \"i\". Then the union (or filtered colimit) of \"R\" is the ring formula_154 defined as follows: it is the disjoint union of all \"R\"'s modulo the equivalence relation formula_155 if and only if formula_156 in \"R\" for sufficiently large \"i\".\n\nExamples of colimits:\n\nAny commutative ring is the colimit of finitely generated subrings.\n\nA projective limit (or a filtered limit) of rings is defined as follows. Suppose we're given a family of rings formula_89, \"i\" running over positive integers, say, and ring homomorphisms formula_164 such that formula_165 are all the identities and formula_166 is formula_167 whenever formula_168. Then formula_169 is the subring of formula_170 consisting of formula_171 such that formula_172 maps to formula_173 under formula_164.\n\nFor an example of a projective limit, see .\n\nThe localization generalizes the construction of the field of fractions of an integral domain to an arbitrary ring and modules. Given a (not necessarily commutative) ring \"R\" and a subset \"S\" of \"R\", there exists a ring formula_175 together with the ring homomorphism formula_176 that \"inverts\" \"S\"; that is, the homomorphism maps elements in \"S\" to unit elements in formula_175, and, moreover, any ring homomorphism from \"R\" that \"inverts\" \"S\" uniquely factors through formula_175. The ring formula_175 is called the localization of \"R\" with respect to \"S\". For example, if \"R\" is a commutative ring and \"f\" an element in \"R\", then the localization formula_180 consists of elements of the form formula_181 (to be precise, formula_182)\n\nThe localization is frequently applied to a commutative ring \"R\" with respect to the complement of a prime ideal (or a union of prime ideals) in \"R\". In that case formula_183, one often writes formula_184 for formula_175. formula_184 is then a local ring with the maximal ideal formula_187. This is the reason for the terminology \"localization\". The field of fractions of an integral domain \"R\" is the localization of \"R\" at the prime ideal zero. If\nformula_188 is a prime ideal of a commutative ring \"R\", then the field of fractions of formula_189 is the same as the residue field of the local ring formula_184 and is denoted by formula_191.\n\nIf \"M\" is a left \"R\"-module, then the localization of \"M\" with respect to \"S\" is given by a change of rings formula_192.\n\nThe most important properties of localization are the following: when \"R\" is a commutative ring and \"S\" a multiplicatively closed subset\n\nIn category theory, a localization of a category amounts to making some morphisms isomorphisms. An element in a commutative ring \"R\" may be thought of as an endomorphism of any \"R\"-module. Thus, categorically, a localization of \"R\" with respect to a subset \"S\" of \"R\" is a functor from the category of \"R\"-modules to itself that sends elements of \"S\" viewed as endomorphisms to automorphisms and is universal with respect to this property. (Of course, \"R\" then maps to formula_175 and \"R\"-modules map to formula_175-modules.)\n\nLet \"R\" be a commutative ring, and let \"I\" be an ideal of \"R\".\nThe completion of \"R\" at \"I\" is the projective limit formula_204; it is a commutative ring. The canonical homomorphisms from \"R\" to the quotients formula_205 induce a homomorphism formula_206. The latter homomorphism is injective if \"R\" is a noetherian integral domain and \"I\" is a proper ideal, or if \"R\" is a noetherian local ring with maximal ideal \"I\", by Krull's intersection theorem. The construction is especially useful when \"I\" is a maximal ideal.\n\nThe basic example is the completion Z of Z at the principal ideal (\"p\") generated by a prime number \"p\"; it is called the ring of \"p\"-adic integers. The completion can in this case be constructed also from the \"p\"-adic absolute value on Q. The \"p\"-adic absolute value on Q is a map formula_207 from Q to R given by formula_208 where formula_209 denotes the exponent of \"p\" in the prime factorization of a nonzero integer \"n\" into prime numbers (we also put formula_210 and formula_211). It defines a distance function on Q and the completion of Q as a metric space is denoted by Q. It is again a field since the field operations extend to the completion. The subring of Q consisting of elements \"x\" with formula_212 is isomorphic to Z.\n\nSimilarly, the formal power series ring formula_213 is the completion of formula_111 at formula_215 (see also Hensel's lemma)\n\nA complete ring has much simpler structure than a commutative ring. This owns to the Cohen structure theorem, which says, roughly, that a complete local ring tends to look like a formal power series ring or a quotient of it. On the other hand, the interaction between the integral closure and completion has been among the most important aspects that distinguish modern commutative ring theory from the classical one developed by the likes of Noether. Pathological examples found by Nagata led to the reexamination of the roles of Noetherian rings and motivated, among other things, the definition of excellent ring.\n\nThe most general way to construct a ring is by specifying generators and relations. Let \"F\" be a free ring (i.e., free algebra over the integers) with the set \"X\" of symbols; i.e., \"F\" consists of polynomials with integral coefficients in noncommuting variables that are elements of \"X\". A free ring satisfies the universal property: any function from the set \"X\" to a ring \"R\" factors through \"F\" so that formula_216 is the unique ring homomorphism. Just as in the group case, every ring can be represented as a quotient of a free ring.\n\nNow, we can impose relations among symbols in \"X\" by taking a quotient. Explicitly, if \"E\" is a subset of \"F\", then the quotient ring of \"F\" by the ideal generated by \"E\" is called the ring with generators \"X\" and relations \"E\". If we used a ring, say, \"A\" as a base ring instead of Z, then the resulting ring will be over \"A\". For example, if formula_217, then the resulting ring will be the usual polynomial ring with coefficients in \"A\" in variables that are elements of \"X\" (It is also the same thing as the symmetric algebra over \"A\" with symbols \"X\".)\n\nIn the category-theoretic terms, the formation formula_218 is the left adjoint functor of the forgetful functor from the category of rings to Set (and it is often called the free ring functor.)\n\nLet \"A\", \"B\" be algebras over a commutative ring \"R\". Then the tensor product of \"R\"-modules formula_219 is a \"R\"-module. We can turn it to a ring by extending linearly formula_220. See also: tensor product of algebras, change of rings.\n\nA nonzero ring with no nonzero zero-divisors is called a domain. A commutative domain is called an integral domain. The most important integral domains are principal ideals domains, PID for short, and fields. A principal ideal domain is an integral domain in which every ideal is principal. An important class of integral domains that contain a PID is a unique factorization domain (UFD), an integral domain in which every nonunit element is a product of prime elements (an element is prime if it generates a prime ideal.) The fundamental question in algebraic number theory is on the extent to which the ring of (generalized) integers in a number field, where an \"ideal\" admits prime factorization, fails to be a PID.\n\nAmong theorems concerning a PID, the most important one is the structure theorem for finitely generated modules over a principal ideal domain. The theorem may be illustrated by the following application to linear algebra. Let \"V\" be a finite-dimensional vector space over a field \"k\" and formula_221 a linear map with minimal polynomial \"q\". Then, since formula_122 is a unique factorization domain, \"q\" factors into powers of distinct irreducible polynomials (i.e., prime elements):\nLetting formula_224, we make \"V\" a \"k\"[\"t\"]-module. The structure theorem then says \"V\" is a direct sum of cyclic modules, each of which is isomorphic to the module of the form formula_225. Now, if formula_226, then such a cyclic module (for formula_227) has a basis in which the restriction of \"f\" is represented by a Jordan matrix. Thus, if, say, \"k\" is algebraically closed, then all formula_227's are of the form formula_229 and the above decomposition corresponds to the Jordan canonical form of \"f\".\n\nIn algebraic geometry, UFDs arise because of smoothness. More precisely, a point in a variety (over a perfect field) is smooth if the local ring at the point is a regular local ring. A regular local ring is a UFD.\n\nThe following is a chain of class inclusions that describes the relationship between rings, domains and fields:\n\nA division ring is a ring such that every non-zero element is a unit. A commutative division ring is a field. A prominent example of a division ring that is not a field is the ring of quaternions. Any centralizer in a division ring is also a division ring. In particular, the center of a division ring is a field. It turned out that every \"finite\" domain (in particular finite division ring) is a field; in particular commutative (the Wedderburn's little theorem).\n\nEvery module over a division ring is a free module (has a basis); consequently, much of linear algebra can be carried out over a division ring instead of a field.\n\nThe study of conjugacy classes figures prominently in the classical theory of division rings. Cartan famously asked the following question: given a division ring \"D\" and a proper sub-division-ring \"S\" that is not contained in the center, does each inner automorphism of \"D\" restrict to an automorphism of \"S\"? The answer is negative: this is the Cartan–Brauer–Hua theorem.\nA cyclic algebra, introduced by L. E. Dickson, is a generalization of a quaternion algebra.\n\nA ring is called a semisimple ring if it is semisimple as a left module (or right module) over itself; i.e., a direct sum of simple modules. A ring is called a semiprimitive ring if its Jacobson radical is zero. (The Jacobson radical is the intersection of all maximal left ideals.) A ring is semisimple if and only if it is artinian and is semiprimitive.\n\nAn algebra over a field \"k\" is artinian if and only if it has finite dimension. Thus, a semisimple algebra over a field is necessarily finite-dimensional, while a simple algebra may have infinite dimension; e.g., the ring of differential operators.\n\nAny module over a semisimple ring is semisimple. (Proof: any free module over a semisimple ring is clearly semisimple and any module is a quotient of a free module.)\n\nExamples of semisimple rings:\n\nSemisimplicity is closely related to separability. An algebra \"A\" over a field \"k\" is said to be separable if the base extension formula_231 is semisimple for any field extension formula_232. If \"A\" happens to be a field, then this is equivalent to the usual definition in field theory (cf. separable extension.)\n\nFor a field \"k\", a \"k\"-algebra is central if its center is \"k\" and is simple if it is a simple ring. Since the center of a simple \"k\"-algebra is a field, any simple \"k\"-algebra is a central simple algebra over its center. In this section, a central simple algebra is assumed to have finite dimension. Also, we mostly fix the base field; thus, an algebra refers to a \"k\"-algebra. The matrix ring of size \"n\" over a ring \"R\" will be denoted by formula_233.\n\nThe Skolem–Noether theorem states any automorphism of a central simple algebra is inner.\n\nTwo central simple algebras \"A\" and \"B\" are said to be \"similar\" if there are integers \"n\" and \"m\" such that formula_234. Since formula_235, the similarity is an equivalence relation. The similarity classes formula_236 with the multiplication formula_237 form an abelian group called the Brauer group of \"k\" and is denoted by formula_238. By the Artin–Wedderburn theorem, a central simple algebra is the matrix ring of a division ring; thus, each similarity class is represented by a unique division ring.\n\nFor example, formula_238 is trivial if \"k\" is a finite field or an algebraically closed field (more generally quasi-algebraically closed field; cf. Tsen's theorem). formula_240 has order 2 (a special case of the theorem of Frobenius). Finally, if \"k\" is a nonarchimedean local field (e.g., formula_241), then formula_242 through the invariant map.\n\nNow, if \"F\" is a field extension of \"k\", then the base extension formula_243 induces formula_244. Its kernel is denoted by formula_245. It consists of formula_236 such that formula_231 is a matrix ring over \"F\" (i.e., \"A\" is split by \"F\".) If the extension is finite and Galois, then formula_245 is canonically isomorphic to formula_249.\n\nAzumaya algebras generalize the notion of central simple algebras to a commutative local ring.\n\nIf \"K\" is a field, a valuation \"v\" is a group homomorphism from the multiplicative group \"K\" to a totally ordered abelian group \"G\" such that, for any \"f\", \"g\" in \"K\" with \"f\" + \"g\" nonzero, \"v\"(\"f\" + \"g\") ≥ min{\"v\"(\"f\"), \"v\"(\"g\")}. The valuation ring of \"v\" is the subring of \"K\" consisting of zero and all nonzero \"f\" such that \"v\"(\"f\") ≥ 0.\n\nExamples:\n\nSee also: Novikov ring and uniserial ring.\n\nA ring may be viewed as an abelian group (by using the addition operation), with extra structure: namely, ring multiplication. In the same way, there are other mathematical objects which may be considered as rings with extra structure. For example:\n\nMany different kinds of mathematical objects can be fruitfully analyzed in terms of some associated ring.\n\nTo any topological space \"X\" one can associate its integral cohomology ring\na graded ring. There are also homology groups formula_259 of a space, and indeed these were defined first, as a useful tool for distinguishing between certain pairs of topological spaces, like the spheres and tori, for which the methods of point-set topology are not well-suited. Cohomology groups were later defined in terms of homology groups in a way which is roughly analogous to the dual of a vector space. To know each individual integral homology group is essentially the same as knowing each individual integral cohomology group, because of the universal coefficient theorem. However, the advantage of the cohomology groups is that there is a natural product, which is analogous to the observation that one can multiply pointwise a \"k\"-multilinear form and an \"l\"-multilinear form to get a (\"k\" + \"l\")-multilinear form.\n\nThe ring structure in cohomology provides the foundation for characteristic classes of fiber bundles, intersection theory on manifolds and algebraic varieties, Schubert calculus and much more.\n\nTo any group is associated its Burnside ring which uses a ring to describe the various ways the group can act on a finite set. The Burnside ring's additive group is the free abelian group whose basis are the transitive actions of the group and whose addition is the disjoint union of the action. Expressing an action in terms of the basis is decomposing an action into its transitive constituents. The multiplication is easily expressed in terms of the representation ring: the multiplication in the Burnside ring is formed by writing the tensor product of two permutation modules as a permutation module. The ring structure allows a formal way of subtracting one action from another. Since the Burnside ring is contained as a finite index subring of the representation ring, one can pass easily from one to the other by extending the coefficients from integers to the rational numbers.\n\nTo any group ring or Hopf algebra is associated its representation ring or \"Green ring\". The representation ring's additive group is the free abelian group whose basis are the indecomposable modules and whose addition corresponds to the direct sum. Expressing a module in terms of the basis is finding an indecomposable decomposition of the module. The multiplication is the tensor product. When the algebra is semisimple, the representation ring is just the character ring from character theory, which is more or less the Grothendieck group given a ring structure.\n\nTo any irreducible algebraic variety is associated its function field. The points of an algebraic variety correspond to valuation rings contained in the function field and containing the coordinate ring. The study of algebraic geometry makes heavy use of commutative algebra to study geometric concepts in terms of ring-theoretic properties. Birational geometry studies maps between the subrings of the function field.\n\nEvery simplicial complex has an associated face ring, also called its Stanley–Reisner ring. This ring reflects many of the combinatorial properties of the simplicial complex, so it is of particular interest in algebraic combinatorics. In particular, the algebraic geometry of the Stanley–Reisner ring was used to characterize the numbers of faces in each dimension of simplicial polytopes.\n\nEvery ring can be thought of as a monoid in Ab, the category of abelian groups (thought of as a monoidal category under the tensor product of formula_260-modules). The monoid action of a ring \"R\" on an abelian group is simply an \"R\"-module. Essentially, an \"R\"-module is a generalization of the notion of a vector space – where rather than a vector space over a field, one has a \"vector space over a ring\".\n\nLet (\"A\", +) be an abelian group and let End(\"A\") be its endomorphism ring (see above). Note that, essentially, End(\"A\") is the set of all morphisms of \"A\", where if \"f\" is in End(\"A\"), and \"g\" is in End(\"A\"), the following rules may be used to compute \"f\" + \"g\" and \"f\" · \"g\":\n\n\nwhere + as in \"f\"(\"x\") + \"g\"(\"x\") is addition in \"A\", and function composition is denoted from right to left. Therefore, associated to any abelian group, is a ring. Conversely, given any ring, (\"R\", +, · ), (\"R\", +) is an abelian group. Furthermore, for every \"r\" in \"R\", right (or left) multiplication by \"r\" gives rise to a morphism of (\"R\", +), by right (or left) distributivity. Let \"A\" = (\"R\", +). Consider those endomorphisms of \"A\", that \"factor through\" right (or left) multiplication of \"R\". In other words, let End(\"A\") be the set of all morphisms \"m\" of \"A\", having the property that \"m\"(\"r\" · \"x\") = \"r\" · \"m\"(\"x\"). It was seen that every \"r\" in \"R\" gives rise to a morphism of \"A\": right multiplication by \"r\". It is in fact true that this association of any element of \"R\", to a morphism of \"A\", as a function from \"R\" to End(\"A\"), is an isomorphism of rings. In this sense, therefore, any ring can be viewed as the endomorphism ring of some abelian \"X\"-group (by \"X\"-group, it is meant a group with \"X\" being its set of operators). In essence, the most general form of a ring, is the endomorphism group of some abelian \"X\"-group.\n\nAny ring can be seen as a preadditive category with a single object. It is therefore natural to consider arbitrary preadditive categories to be generalizations of rings. And indeed, many definitions and theorems originally given for rings can be translated to this more general context. Additive functors between preadditive categories generalize the concept of ring homomorphism, and ideals in additive categories can be defined as sets of morphisms closed under addition and under composition with arbitrary morphisms.\n\nAlgebraists have defined structures more general than rings by weakening or dropping some of ring axioms.\n\nA rng is the same as a ring, except that the existence of a multiplicative identity is not assumed.\n\nA nonassociative ring is an algebraic structure that satisfies all of the ring axioms except the associative property and the existence of a multiplicative identity. A notable example is a Lie algebra. There exists some structure theory for such algebras that generalizes the analogous results for Lie algebras and associative algebras.\n\nA semiring is obtained by weakening the assumption that (\"R\",+) is an abelian group to the assumption that (\"R\",+) is a commutative monoid, and adding the axiom that 0 · \"a\" = \"a\" · 0 = 0 for all \"a\" in \"R\" (since it no longer follows from the other axioms).\n\nExample: a tropical semiring.\n\nLet \"C\" be a category with finite products. Let pt denote a terminal object of \"C\" (an empty product). A ring object in \"C\" is an object \"R\" equipped with morphisms formula_261 (addition), formula_262 (multiplication), formula_263 (additive identity), formula_264 (additive inverse), and formula_265 (multiplicative identity) satisfying the usual ring axioms. Equivalently, a ring object is an object \"R\" equipped with a factorization of its functor of points formula_266 through the category of rings: formula_267.\n\nIn algebraic geometry, a ring scheme over a base scheme is a ring object in the category of -schemes. One example is the ring scheme over , which for any commutative ring returns the ring of -isotypic Witt vectors of length over .\n\nIn algebraic topology, a ring spectrum is a spectrum \"X\" together with a multiplication formula_268 and a unit map formula_269 from the sphere spectrum \"S\", such that the ring axiom diagrams commute up to homotopy. In practice, it is common to define a ring spectrum as a monoid object in a good category of spectra such as the category of symmetric spectra.\n\n\nSpecial types of rings:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42699853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42699853", "title": "Rod and frame test", "text": "Rod and frame test\n\nThe rod and frame test is a psychophysical method of testing perception. It relies on the use of a rod and frame apparatus which uses a rotating rod set inside an individually rotatable drum, allowing an experimenter to vary the participant's frame of reference and thus test for their perception of vertical.\n\nRod and frame illusion occurs because of the effect of the orientation of the frame on the rod. In the simplest example of the rod and frame illusion, the illusion will cause the participant to perceive the rod to be oriented congruent with the orientation of the frame. When the participant is viewing the rod and frame that are both positioned at 0 degrees (or vertical), he or she perceives the rod as vertical with perfect accuracy. However, when the frame is tilted away from vertical, the participant's perception of vertical is affected. The participant tends to perceive the rod to be tilted in the same direction as the frame is oriented (e.g., if the frame is tilted in the counterclockwise direction, the rod will also be perceived as being tilted counterclockwise). As the tilt of the frame increases, the participants' perceived vertical increasingly deviates from true vertical.\n\nTo perform the rod and frame task, an apparatus consisting of a rod in a square frame is used. An example commercial apparatus can be seen in picture 1. When the participant is being tested using the apparatus, their head is fastened firmly in the chin rest to prevent the participant from collecting visual cues from outside of the apparatus. The rod and frame are shown in the center of the far end of the apparatus, which provides a frame of reference to the participant. Both the participant and the experimenter are able to adjust the orientation of the rod, while only the experimenter can adjust the frame orientation by using the appropriate knobs on the apparatus, as seen in picture 2. The experimenter is able to see the exact degree measurement of the rod and frame from vertical, while the participant sees the physical rod and frame inside the apparatus. \n\nThe methods of constant stimuli, limits, and adjustment can be used to test the participants, but method of limits is most commonly used in research conducted using the rod and frame task. When using the method of limits, the experimenter sets the orientation of the rod and frame separately and then the participant is asked to adjust the rod orientation until they perceive it to be vertical. Deviation from true vertical can then be determined. Based on which way the frame is tilted, the rod can be viewed as either being tilted in the same direction as the frame (direct effect), or in the opposite direction of the frame (indirect effect).\n\nThe frame of reference with respect to studies of the visual system refers to perceived reference axes. In the rod and frame illusion, there are a number of things that can influence one's frame of reference. Past research has found that one reason people experience the rod and frame illusion is due to visual-vestibular interactions. For instance, when a participant is viewing the rod and frame task while physically tilted, the participant acts as though they are tilted opposite of the orientation of the frame. This suggests that the illusion, in part, is due to the person compensating for their perceived vertical in the direction that is opposite of the frame. Other evidence proposed by researchers that is consistent with this is that, when participants are put on their sides to view the rod and frame task, they rely on their vision when their vestibular and proprioceptive senses are incongruent with those of their visual senses. These findings suggest that the rod and frame illusion is processed in a type of hierarchy, where visual input is at the top, then vestibular cues, and finally proprioceptive cues. In 2010, Lipshits found that, along with this hierarchy of processing, proprioceptive information, as opposed to gravity, is used by the body to determine which way is vertical. Lipshits says that, when we are not able to use vision to determine which way is vertical, we use other cues based on the axis of our head and body.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22442887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22442887", "title": "SCOPE Project", "text": "SCOPE Project\n\nThe Summer Community Organization and Political Education (SCOPE) Project of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) was a voter registration civil rights initiative conducted from 1965-66 in 120 counties in six southern states.\n\nWhile leading the Chatham County Crusade For Voters in Savannah, Georgia, one of many SCLC affiliates across the South, Rev. Hosea Williams, an SCLC aide to SCLC chairman Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., had been joined by white college students for various short term civil rights projects. From that interracial success, the idea of SCOPE grew to fruition. Dr. King and SCLC decided that there was a need for white college students to journey south to join with local activists. The goals included preparing formerly disenfranchised African Americans for voting, and, if necessary, organizing street demonstrations to help put political pressure on the Congress, should the proposed Voting Rights Act of 1965 be met with congressional resistance and stalling by segregationist forces.\n\nIn the winter and spring of 1965, the Voting Rights Movement in Selma, Alabama, and the Selma to Montgomery marches were challenging the segregated status quo. During the spring of 1965 Dr. King assigned Williams, SCLC's Director of Voter Registration and Political Education, to lead the SCOPE Project which had been approved by the SCLC executive committee in December 1964. It continued into the Fall of 1965 and Spring of 1966. Some of the white college volunteers returned in the summer of 1966, and a few enrolled in Black southern colleges and continued community organization activities beyond the spring of 1966.\n\nDr. King announced the SCOPE project in a speech at UCLA on April 27, 1965, and his visit resulted in the recruitment of twenty UCLA students, including the late Joel Siegel, who later became the film critic for Good Morning America, and Rick Tuttle, who worked with Williams and Andrew Young and spent two months in a Savannah jail as a result of his movement activities. Tuttle’s case won the right to use property bonds for civil rights workers bail. Later he would serve 16 years as Los Angeles City Controller. The SCLC staff sent regional recruitment teams to visit colleges and universities nationwide. Gwendolyn Green, the executive director of the Western Christian Leadership Conference, joined Dr. King at UCLA and was temporarily assigned to the Atlanta office to serve as the Assistant SCOPE director, reporting to Williams and King.\n\nInitially, the SCLC had hoped to recruit 2000 volunteers, but due to the sometimes extreme danger involved with mid-60s civil rights movement in the southern states, college students from the north and west did not respond in the hoped for numbers. Eventually about 500 predominantly white college volunteers—representing nearly 100 universities—were deployed in 90 of the 120 SCOPE Project targeted counties across six southern states. Some students were re-deployed and assigned to more than one county by Williams, who had received leadership training as a World War II Army Sgt. in General George Patton's Black tank brigade and was a combat decorated veteran.\n\nThe SCOPE project began on June 14, 1965, with a week-long Orientation at Morris Brown College in Atlanta, which was led by Bayard Rustin, the organizer of the 1963 March On Washington. The \"faculty\" for the orientation included: Vernon Jordan of the Urban League; Ralph Helstein, president of the meatpackers union; John Doar, Assistant Attorney for Civil Rights); Michael Harrington, author of “The Other America”; civil rights lawyer Charles Morgan, Jr., as well as Dr. King, Young, Rev. Ralph Abernathy, Junius Griffin, Rev. James Bevel, and others on the SCLC Executive Staff.\n\nThe students were led by local African American leaders in the targeted counties and joined by Black community volunteers, including local ministers and large numbers of local high school and college youth. The SCOPE Project registered an estimated 49,000 new voters through the combined efforts of the local community and the SCOPE college volunteers during a ten-week initiative, from June 14 - August 28. In addition, SCOPE educated thousands of citizens in political and voter literacy education classes.\nThe volunteers also tested and reported violations of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act to Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights, John Doar, which led to U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations and the deployment of Federal voter registrars to counties that denied African Americans the right to vote. SCLC field staff and SCOPE volunteers also worked with the DOJ Community Relations Service (CRS), and engaged in nonviolent demonstrations to dramatize the denial of voting rights and the refusal to remove \"white only\" signs and desegregate public accommodations.\n\nSCLC and other organizations bridged racial and religious barriers to forge partnerships with both white Christian and Jewish groups, along with progressives in the Southern Regional Council and other organizations. SCOPE volunteers were assigned to work with African-American community leaders who had requested the white college volunteers.\nThe students lived with African-American families, who were paid $15 a week for their room and board, which barely covered expenses. About 40 of the college volunteers were asked by Dr. King, Williams and his assistant, Gwendolyn Green, to join the SCLC Field Staff. They were then paid a subsistence salary of $5 a week, with the African American community providing housing and meals. Many veterans from other SCLC campaigns were assigned to the SCOPE project including: Field Staff members Rev. Willie Bolden, Benjamin Van Clark, Jimmie L. Wells, Lula Williams, Lena Turner, Gloria Wise, Jewell Wise, Patricia Simpson, R. B. Cottonreader, J.T. Johnson, Tom Houck, Dana Swan, Rev. James Orange, Ben “Sunshine” Owens, “Big Lester” Hankerson, Leon Hall, Bruce Hartford, and others. Both Albert Turner and Stony Cooks worked closely with Williams in statewide leadership roles.\n\nSCOPE volunteers experienced violence, tear-gassing, harassment and threats with guns on numerous occasions, according to \"incident reports\" from the project's administrative records. On June 18, 1965 in Camden, AL, for example, 18 SCOPE workers were arrested in a church for \"illegal possession of boycott materials.\" One SCOPE worker, Mike Farley, was beaten in jail by a white prisoner, who was reportedly both bribed and threatened by a jailer. On July 8 in Wilcox County, AL, three cars carrying SCOPE workers were shot at by white men, after police stopped SCOPE workers and spoke with white men. On July 15, in Chatham County, Georgia, SCOPE worker Shirley Savaris was threatened by a white man with a gun and told to leave town. The next day in Taliafferro County, Georgia, SCOPE workers were threatened by a deputy sheriff and county attorney with beatings and killings, \"if they did not leave town the next day.\" Also in Taliaferro County, on July 23, SCOPE volunteer Richard Copeland was beaten by two whites on the courthouse steps in Crawfordsville. On July 28 in Sussex County, Virginia, two SCOPE workers, Gary Imsland and Elke Wiedenroth, were run off the road while returning from a church meeting and threatened by a white man with a shotgun. In Luverne, Alabama, on August 3, SCOPE workers Dunbar Reed, Bruce Hartford, and Carol Richardson, along with a number of local students were attacked and beaten by a white mob after they integrated a local cafe. On August 18 in Berkeley County, South Carolina, two SCOPE volunteers were beaten after attempting to integrate restaurants in Monk's Corner and the local SCOPE office and volunteer residence was shot up the following day.\n\nThe SCOPE volunteers were profoundly impacted on a personal level by the inter-racial experiences throughout their lives, as were the host families and communities. Press accounts termed the SCOPE volunteers \"the freedom corps.\" Although the college students were in no way leaders of the civil rights movement, they were a part of a generational vanguard of about only 3,000 whites between 1961–1966, who were willing to put themselves in harms way during the movement struggle in the South. Rev. Hosea Williams predicted in an interview with the Stanford University radio station in August, 1965, that SCOPE volunteers would provide significant leadership to America in the future. And, within the ranks of the SCOPE students there have been many who provided impressive leadership in various fields, including: Dr. Jo Freeman, an author/journalist; Father James Groppi, as an activist Catholic priest; Dr. Barbara Jean Emerson, a college administrator; Elizabeth Omilami, actress and current CEO of Hosea's Feed The Hungry and Homeless Inc - a non-profit that provides food and assistance to the poor in Atlanta; Rabbi Moshe Shur, Hillel Rabbi at Queens College; international educator Peter Geffen, founder of the Abraham Heschel Day School in NYC; Dr. Dean Savage, chair, Dept of Sociology, Queens College;, Dr. James Simons, M.D., Oncologist, Kaiser Hospital, Oakland, CA;, Judy Van Allen (Institute For African Development, Cornell University; Dick Reavis, professor, NC State University); Dr. Bruce Mirhoff, professor, SUNY); Bruce Hartford, co-founder Civil Rights Vets website; Beth Pickens, attorney – NYC and others. Additional SCOPErs who became leaders can be found on the civil rights vets website.\n\nJohn Lewis, Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) Chairman from 1963–1966 (later a U.S. Congressman representing Atlanta), welcomed the SCOPE volunteers as “Brothers and sisters in the movement,” who were willing to put their lives on the line for freedom. Lewis was jailed with white SCOPE workers, along with local African American SNCC and SCLC volunteers, in Americus, Georgia on August 1, 1965, after attempting to integrate to local churches. As Lewis said during a question and answer session at Atlanta's Oglethorpe University in 2006, \"The SCOPE volunteers were no different than Freedom Summer workers, we were all together that summer of 1965, and we all took the same risks. The SCOPE volunteers stood shoulder to shoulder with us in our struggle for civil and voting rights.\"\n\nIn assessing the courageous contributions of the SCOPE volunteers, Andrew Young, who went on from the Civil Rights Movement to serve as a U.S. Congressman, United Nations Ambassador and Mayor of Atlanta, told a King Holiday audience in Atlanta “The volunteers in SCOPE knew that some of the Freedom Summer workers had been killed the Summer before, but they came anyway.” On another occasion, he told a reunion of civil rights Movement volunteers, including SCOPE veterans “Most of you were taking your lives in your hands by associating with us. It made us truly a national movement, when the students came. Their parents had to learn about the South.”\n\nBooks about SCOPE by SCOPE Participants include: \"This Bright Light of Ours: Stories from the Voting Rights Fight\", Maria Gitin, University of Alabama Press Feb 2014. For more information see: www.thisbrightlightofours.com.\n\nWilly Siegel Leventhal offered his collection of SCOPE documents and essays: \"The SCOPE of Freedom\", to enable Gitin to contact some of her co-workers and to conduct some fact checking. \n\nAiken, Michael, Demerath, Dr. Jay Dr. and Marwell, Gerald. (1970) \"Dynamics of Idealism: White Activists in a Black Movement\". New York: Jossey-Bass Publishers\n\nB'NAI BRITH National Magazine, June, 2007, \"Blacks, Jews and Civil Rights ... The Struggle Continues\"\n\nLeventhal, Willy. (2001) \"Rick Tuttle and the Ghosts of Mississippi ... How the '60s Began at UCLA\", UCLA Alumni Magazine\nLeventhal, Willy. \"A Personal Odyssey\", NEW SOUTH. Fall, 1972\n\nLeventhal, Willy. \"The Scope of Freedom: The Leadership of Hosea Williams with Dr. King's '65 Student Volunteers\". (2005) Montgomery: Challenge Publishing.\n\nLeventhal, Willy. \"A Short Line To History\", Montgomery Living Magazine, May 2003, pages 68–69.\nNational Park Service: S.C.O.P.E. Selma-Montgomery National Historic Site Visitor's Center information card\n\nSiegel, Joel (2004). \"Lessons for Dylan: From Father to Son\". New York: Public Affairs.\n\nYoo, Charles. \"Decades Later, Young Foot Soldiers for Civil Rights Meet Again in South\", July 4, 2005, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, pages D-1 & D-3.\n\nYoung, Andrew (2008). \"An Easy Burden: The Civil Rights Movement and the Transformation of America\". New York: Baylor University Press\n\n"}
{"id": "7244941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7244941", "title": "Sankofa", "text": "Sankofa\n\nSankofa is a word in the Twi language of Ghana that translates to \"Go back and get it\" (\"san\" - to return; \"ko\" - to go; \"fa\" - to fetch, to seek and take) and also refers to the Asante Adinkra symbol represented either with a stylized heart shape or by a bird with its head turned backwards while its feet face forward carrying a precious egg in its mouth. Sankofa is often associated with the proverb, “\"Se wo were fi na wosankofa a yenkyi\",\" which translates as: \"It is not wrong to go back for that which you have forgotten.\"\n\nIn addition to being used on adinkra cloth in Ghana, the Sankofa heart is a common design on gates in the United States, particularly New York City. In Brooklyn, the Sankofa heart is commonly upside down on gates to Brownstone residential buildings.\n\nThe sankofa bird appears frequently in traditional Akan art, and has also been adopted as an important symbol in an African-American and African Diaspora context to represent the need to reflect on the past to build a successful future. It is one of the most widely dispersed adinkra symbols, appearing in modern jewelry, tattoos, and clothing.\n\nThe Akan people of Ghana use an Adinkra symbol to represent this same idea and one version of it is similar to the eastern symbol of a heart, and another version is that of a bird with its head turned backwards taking an egg off its back. It symbolizes taking from the past what is good and bringing it into the present in order to make positive progress through the benevolent use of knowledge. Adinkra symbols are used by the Akan people to express proverbs and other philosophical ideas.\n\nThe sankofa bird also appears on carved wooden Akan stools, in Akan goldweights, on some ruler's state umbrella or parasol (\"ntuatire\") finials and on the staff finials of some court linguists. It functions to foster mutual respect and unity in tradition.\n\nDuring a building excavation in Lower Manhattan in 1991, a cemetery for free and enslaved Africans was discovered. Over 400 remains were identified, but one coffin in particular stood out. Nailed into its wooden lid were iron tacks, 51 of which formed an enigmatic, heart-shaped design that could be a sankofa symbol. The site is now a national monument, known as the African Burial Ground National Monument, administered by the National Park Service. A copy of the design found on the coffin lid is prominently carved onto a large black granite memorial at the center of the site.\n\nThe National Museum of African American History and Culture uses the heart-shaped symbol on its website. The \"mouse over\" for the image reads: \"The Sankofa represents the importance of learning from the past.\"\n\nSankofa symbols show themselves all over cities like Washington, DC and New Orleans, particularly in fence designs.\n\nJanet Jackson has a sankofa tattoo on her inner right wrist. The symbol is also featured in her 1997 album \"The Velvet Rope\", as well as on the supporting tour.\n\nSankofa is an event used by Saint Louis University to honor African-American student graduates and students who graduate with degrees in African American studies.\n\nThe symbol and name were used in the 1993 film \"Sankofa\" by Haile Gerima, as well as in the graphic title of the film\" 500 Years Later\" by Owen 'Alik Shahadah.\n\nA UK stage production by Adzido Pan-African Dance Ensemble, scripted by Margaret Busby and premiered in 1999, was entitled \"Sankofa\".\n\nThe African-American string band Sankofa Strings, founded in 2005 by Sule Greg C. Wilson, Rhiannon Giddens Laffin, and Dom Flemons, was featured in the 2007 jug band documentary \"Chasin' Gus' Ghost\". The band self-released the CD \"Colored Aristocracy\" in 2006. A second iteration of the band Sankofa, with Wilson and Flemons, as well as Ndidi Onukwulu and Allison Russell, released the CD \"The Uptown Strut\" in 2012.\n\nCassandra Wilson recorded the song \"Sankofa\", which appeared on her 1993 \"Blue Light 'Til Dawn\" CD.\n\nSankofa is the name of a Liverpool band formed in 2010. They have released one single \"Siren Song\" and a four-track EP that includes \"Guttermouth\" (both available on vinyl and as a download).\nA Sankofa bird was carved into the floor of a slave ship by James Keziah Delaney in the second episode of the BBC Television show \"Taboo\", and also appears as a tattoo on his upper back.\n\nW. Bruce Willis, \"The Adinkra Dictionary: A visual primer on the language of Adinkra\", Pyramid Complex (1998), \n"}
{"id": "27622274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27622274", "title": "Standing cell", "text": "Standing cell\n\nA standing cell is a special cell constructed so as to prevent the prisoner from doing anything but stand. The \"Stehbunker\" was used in Nazi concentration camps during the Third Reich, as a punishment. Standing cells (called kishkas) were also used during Joseph Stalin's purges in the Soviet Union. Some standing cells were large enough for only one person, others held as many as four people. Punishment in standing cells was ordered for asking for two portions of soup, picking apples, or accidental breakages.\n\nThe Armenian hosiery-manufacturer and musician Samuel Hovannes Zorian was arrested in 1895 by Ottoman authorities for being a political activist. He was beaten and incarcerated in a so-called \"police room\", measuring barely two feet square in size and with no windows. On the second day, he was dragged out and beaten almost senseless with sticks. Zorian was then sent back to the \"police room\" where he was confined for a further week and was only sustained on a diet of bread and water, with no medical attention given to him during that period.\n\nSA camp kommandant Werner Schäfer had two cells built in the basement of the Oranienburg concentration camp in 1933. The dimensions of the cell were such that a person could only stand. A prisoner surnamed Neumann was held there for 192 hours and was allegedly driven mad as a result of his confinement. At times, prisoners were held in small coffin-sized closets in which they could only stand.\n\nThe number of prisoners in Dachau concentration camp increased dramatically in the last years of the Second World War. The concentration camp was overcrowded. In late 1944, the camp command erected standing cells. The stone chambers were similar to chimneys and measured 75 x 80 cm (29.5 x 31.5 inches). There was a small hatch on top for air, and a narrow door with an iron bar bolted to the cell. The intensified punitive measure saved room and reinforced the punitive agony. There were also standing cells at the Allach subcamp, where the cells were smaller than at Dachau. Some at other camps were bigger, about 90 x 90 cm (35.5 x 35.5 inches).\n\nFor example, the prisoner K. A. Gross and the Polish prisoner Max Hoffmann spent days in the standing cell. Hoffmann described it thus:\n\nIt was a terrible state, as I thought that it was over for me, everything was so callous and distant for me. I couldn't lie down, couldn't crouch, the best was to stand, stand, six days and six nights long. [...] You touch the walls on both sides with your elbows, your back touches the wall behind you, your knees the wall in front of you. [...] This is no punishment or pre-trial detention, it is torture, straight forward, Middle Ages torture. I had bloodshot eyes, numb from bad air, I was just waiting for the end.\n\nAccording to Johannes Neuhäusler, an inmate in the standing cell received a single piece of bread in three days. On the fourth day, the prisoner was removed from the standing cell, given a normal camp meal ration and allowed to sleep on a wooden cot. On the next day, the three-day confinement in the standing cell began anew.\n\nThe SS did not always adhere to the interruption after the third day. A Czech prisoner, Radovan Drazan, spent eight days without a break in a standing cell. Sometimes, prisoners were not even allowed a brief break from the cell, so that they had burns on their bodies from feces and urine.\n\nThere were four standing cells at Auschwitz in the basement of Block 11, which measured about one yard square, and in which four persons were crammed, able only to stand. There was only a 2\" opening for air, so that prisoners wouldn't suffocate. Punishment in these cells was usually imposed for a period of 10 days. Auschwitz survivor Josef Kral testified at the Auschwitz Trials about the standing cells where he had been held for six weeks with three meals during that time, and about how one prisoner was so hungry, he ate his shoes. Commander Rudolf Höss, the camp commander, stated that punishment in the standing cells was limited to three nights, but this was disputed by prisoners. Artur Liebehenschel, Höss' successor at Auschwitz in 1943, removed the standing cells.\n\nAccording to Aleksandr Mikhailovich Orlov, standing cells were used as part of the Stalinist purges of the 1930s. After two days in a standing cell, a Secretary of the Tatar Provincial Committee was removed in an unconscious state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977649", "title": "Stem-and-leaf display", "text": "Stem-and-leaf display\n\nA stem-and-leaf display or stem-and-leaf plot is a device for presenting quantitative data in a graphical format, similar to a histogram, to assist in visualizing the shape of a distribution. They evolved from Arthur Bowley's work in the early 1900s, and are useful tools in exploratory data analysis. Stemplots became more commonly used in the 1980s after the publication of John Tukey's book on \"exploratory data analysis\" in 1977. The popularity during those years is attributable to their use of monospaced (typewriter) typestyles that allowed computer technology of the time to easily produce the graphics. Modern computers' superior graphic capabilities have meant these techniques are less often used.\n\nA stem-and-leaf display is also called a stemplot, but the latter term often refers to another chart type. A simple stem plot may refer to plotting a matrix of \"y\" values onto a common \"x\" axis, and identifying the common\" x\" value with a vertical line, and the individual \"y \"values with symbols on the line.\n\nUnlike histograms, stem-and-leaf displays retain the original data to at least two significant digits, and put the data in order, thereby easing the move to order-based inference and non-parametric statistics.\n\nA basic stem-and-leaf display contains two columns separated by a vertical line. The left column contains the \"stems\" and the right column contains the \"leaves\".\n\nTo construct a stem-and-leaf display, the observations must first be sorted in ascending order: this can be done most easily if working by hand by constructing a draft of the stem-and-leaf display with the leaves unsorted, then sorting the leaves to produce the final stem-and-leaf display. Here is the sorted set of data values that will be used in the following example:\n\nNext, it must be determined what the stems will represent and what the leaves will represent. Typically, the leaf contains the last digit of the number and the stem contains all of the other digits. In the case of very large numbers, the data values may be rounded to a particular place value (such as the hundreds place) that will be used for the leaves. The remaining digits to the left of the rounded place value are used as the stem.\n\nIn this example, the leaf represents the ones place and the stem will represent the rest of the number (tens place and higher).\n\nThe stem-and-leaf display is drawn with two columns separated by a vertical line. The stems are listed to the left of the vertical line. It is important that each stem is listed only once and that no numbers are skipped, even if it means that some stems have no leaves. The leaves are listed in increasing order in a row to the right of each stem.\n\nIt is important to note that when there is a repeated number in the data (such as two 72s) then the plot must reflect such (so the plot would look like 7 | 2 2 5 6 7 when it has the numbers 72 72 75 76 77).\n\nRounding may be needed to create a stem-and-leaf display. Based on the following set of data, the stem plot below would be created:\n\nFor negative numbers, a negative is placed in front of the stem unit, which is still the value X / 10. Non-integers are rounded. This allowed the stem and leaf plot to retain its shape, even for more complicated data sets. As in this example below:\n\nStem-and-leaf displays are useful for displaying the relative density and shape of the data, giving the reader a quick overview of distribution. They retain (most of) the raw numerical data, often with perfect integrity. They are also useful for highlighting outliers and finding the mode. However, stem-and-leaf displays are only useful for moderately sized data sets (around 15-150 data points). With very small data sets a stem-and-leaf displays can be of little use, as a reasonable number of data points are required to establish definitive distribution properties. A dot plot may be better suited for such data. With very large data sets, a stem-and-leaf display will become very cluttered, since each data point must be represented numerically. A box plot or histogram may become more appropriate as the data size increase\n\n"}
{"id": "1564149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564149", "title": "Stir crazy (condition)", "text": "Stir crazy (condition)\n\nStir crazy is an experience of anxiety about being trapped in a future of boredom; it associated with prisoners and adolescents. It is also called \"chronophobia\". According to the Oxford English Dictionary the phrase dates back to 1908 and stems from the slang term \"stir\" for prison. \n\n"}
{"id": "6914308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6914308", "title": "Structuralism (biology)", "text": "Structuralism (biology)\n\nBiological or process structuralism is a school of biological thought that objects to an exclusively Darwinian or adaptationist explanation of natural selection such as is described in the 20th century's modern synthesis. It proposes instead that evolution is guided differently, basically by more or less physical forces which shape the development of an animal's body, and sometimes implies that these forces supersede selection altogether.\n\nStructuralists have proposed different mechanisms that might have guided the formation of body plans. Before Darwin, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued that animals shared homologous parts, and that if one was enlarged, the others would be reduced in compensation. After Darwin, D'Arcy Thompson hinted at vitalism and offered geometric explanations in his classic 1917 book \"On Growth and Form\". Adolf Seilacher suggested mechanical inflation for \"pneu\" structures in Ediacaran biota fossils such as \"Dickinsonia\". Günter P. Wagner argued for developmental bias, structural constraints on embryonic development. Stuart Kauffman favoured self-organisation, the idea that complex structure emerges holistically and spontaneously from the dynamic interaction of all parts of an organism. Michael Denton argued for laws of form by which Platonic universals or \"Types\" are self-organised. Stephen J. Gould and Richard Lewontin proposed biological \"spandrels\", features created as a byproduct of the adaptation of nearby structures. Gerd B. Müller and Stuart A. Newman argued that the appearance in the fossil record of most of the current phyla in the Cambrian explosion was \"pre-Mendelian\" evolution caused by physical factors. Brian Goodwin, described by Wagner as part of \"a fringe movement in evolutionary biology\", denies that biological complexity can be reduced to natural selection, and argues that pattern formation is driven by morphogenetic fields.\n\nDarwinian biologists have criticised structuralism, emphasising that there is plentiful evidence both that natural selection is effective and, from deep homology, that genes have been involved in shaping organisms throughout evolutionary history. They accept that some structures such as the cell membrane self-assemble, but deny the ability of self-organisation to drive large-scale evolution.\n\nIn 1830, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued a structuralist case against the functionalist (teleological) position of Georges Cuvier. Geoffroy believed that homologies of structure between animals indicated that they shared an ideal pattern; these did not imply evolution but a unity of plan, a law of nature. He further believed that if one part was more developed within a structure, the other parts would necessarily be reduced in compensation, as nature always used the same materials: if more of them were used for one feature, less was available for the others.\n\nIn his \"eccentric, beautiful\" 1917 book \"On Growth and Form\", D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson revisited the old idea of \"universal laws of form\" to explain the observed forms of living organisms. The science writer Philip Ball states that Thompson \"presents mathematical principles as a shaping agency that may supersede natural selection, showing how the structures of the living world often echo those in inorganic nature\", and notes his \"frustration at the 'Just So' explanations of morphology offered by Darwinians.\" Instead, Ball writes, Thompson elaborates on how not heredity but physical forces govern biological form. The philosopher of biology Michael Ruse similarly wrote that Thompson \"had little time for natural selection\", certainly preferring \"mechanical explanations\" and possibly straying into vitalism.\n\nLike Thompson, the palaeontologist Adolf Seilacher emphasised fabricational constraints on form. He interpreted fossils such as \"Dickinsonia\" in the Ediacaran biota as \"pneu\" structures determined by mechanical inflation like a quilted air mattress, rather than having been driven by natural selection.\n\nIn his 2014 book \"Homology, Genes, and Evolutionary Innovation\", the evolutionary biologist Günter P. Wagner argues for \"the study of novelty as distinct from adaptation.\" He defines novelty as occurring when some part of the body develops an individual and quasi-independent existence, in other words as a distinct and recognisable structure, which he implies might occur before natural selection begins to adapt the structure for some function. He forms a structuralist picture of evolutionary developmental biology, using empirical evidence, arguing that homology and biological novelty are key aspects requiring explanation, and that developmental bias (i.e. structural constraints on embryonic development) is a key explanation for these.\n\nThe mathematical biologist Stuart Kauffman suggested in 1993 that self-organization may play a role alongside natural selection in three areas of evolutionary biology, namely population dynamics, molecular evolution, and morphogenesis. With respect to molecular biology, Kauffman has been criticised for ignoring the role of energy in driving biochemical reactions in cells, which can fairly be called self-catalysing but which do not simply self-organise.\n\nThe biochemist Michael Denton has argued a structuralist case for self-organization. In a 2013 paper, he claimed that \"the basic forms of the natural world—the Types—are immanent in nature, and determined by a set of special natural biological laws, the so called 'laws of form'.\" He asserts that these \"recurring patterns and forms\" are \"genuine universals\". Form is in this view not shaped by natural selection, but by \"self-organizing properties of particular categories of matter\" and by \"cosmic fine-tuning of the laws of nature\". Denton has been criticised by the biochemist Laurence A. Moran as anti-Darwinian and favouring creationism.\n\nIn 1979, influenced by Seilacher among others, the paleontologist Stephen J. Gould and the population geneticist Richard Lewontin wrote what Wagner called \"the most influential structuralist manifesto\", \"The Spandrels of San Marco and the Panglossian Paradigm\". They pointed out that biological features (like architectural spandrels) did not necessarily have adaptation as their direct cause. Instead, architects couldn't help creating small triangular areas between arches and pillars, as arches need (evolve) to be curved, and pillars need to be vertical. The resulting spandrels are exaptations, consequences of other evolutionary changes. Evolution, they argued, did not select for a protruding human chin: instead, reducing the length of the tooth row left the jaw protruding.\n\nExtreme structuralists like Gerd B. Müller and Stuart A. Newman, inheriting the viewpoint of D'Arcy Thompson, have proposed that physical laws of structure, not genetics, govern major diversifications such as the Cambrian explosion, followed later by co-opted genetic mechanisms. They argued further that there was a \"pre-Mendelian\" phase of the evolution of animals, involving physical forces, before genes took over. Darwinian biologists freely admit that physical factors such as surface tension can cause self-assembly, but insist that genes play a crucial role. They note for example that deep homologies between widely separated groups of organisms, such as the signalling pathways and transcription factors of choanoflagellates and metazoans, demonstrate that genes have been involved throughout evolutionary history.\n\nWhat Wagner calls \"a fringe movement in evolutionary biology\", the form of structuralism exemplified by Brian Goodwin, effectively denies that natural selection is important, or at least that biological complexity could be reduced to natural selection. This led to conflict with Darwinists such as Richard Dawkins. Goodwin related the old concept of a morphogenetic field to the spatial distribution of chemical signals in a developing embryo. He demonstrated with a mathematical model that a variety of patterns could be formed by choosing parameter values to set up either static geometric patterns or dynamic oscillations, implying that the signalling system involved was somehow an alternative to natural selection. Dawkins commented \"He thinks he's anti-Darwinian, although he can't be, because he has no alternative explanation.\"\n\nWhile agreeing that pattern formation mechanisms such as those described by Goodwin exist, the biologists Richard Dawkins, Stephen J. Gould, Lynn Margulis, and Steve Jones have criticised Goodwin for suggesting that chemical signalling forms an alternative to natural selection.\n\nMoran, a \"skeptical biochemist\", comments that 'structuralism' is a \"new buzzword ... guaranteed to impress the creationist crowd because nobody understands what it means but it sounds very 'sciency' and philosophical.\" The philosopher of science Paul E. Griffiths writes that structuralists \"view this structuring of the space of biological possibility as part of the fundamental physical structure of nature. But the phenomena of phylogenetic inertia and developmental constraint do not support this interpretation. These phenomena show that the evolutionary pathways available to an organism are a function of the developmental structure of the organism.\"\n\nMoran summarizes: \"There's nothing in science that supports the views of the structuralists. We have perfectly good explanations for why bumblebees are different than mushrooms and why all vertebrates have vertebrae and not exoskeletons. There's no evidence to support the idea that if you replay the tape of life it will come out looking anything like what we see today. You can be confident that when you visit another planet you will not find vertebrates.\"\n\nThe evolutionary developmental biologist Lewis Held wrote that \"The notion that aspects of anatomy can be explained by physical forces (like expansion cracking) was advocated ~ 100 years earlier in D'Arcy Thompson's 1917 \"On Growth and Form\" and in Theodore Cook's 1914 book \"The Curves of Life\". Over the intervening century, various traits have been proposed to arise \"mechanically\" rather than \"genetically\": brain convolutions, cartilage condensations, flower corrugations, tooth cusps, and fish otoliths. To this kooky list we can now add the crooked smile of the crocodile, or at least the cracked skin that surrounds it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51432", "title": "Surreal number", "text": "Surreal number\n\nIn mathematics, the surreal number system is a totally ordered proper class containing the real numbers as well as infinite and infinitesimal numbers, respectively larger or smaller in absolute value than any positive real number. The surreals share many properties with the reals, including the usual arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division); as such, they form an ordered field. If formulated in Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory, the surreal numbers are a universal ordered field in the sense that all other ordered fields, such as the rationals, the reals, the rational functions, the Levi-Civita field, the superreal numbers, and the hyperreal numbers, can be realized as subfields of the surreals. The surreals also contain all transfinite ordinal numbers; the arithmetic on them is given by the natural operations. It has also been shown (in Von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory) that the maximal class hyperreal field is isomorphic to the maximal class surreal field; in theories without the axiom of global choice, this need not be the case, and in such theories it is not necessarily true that the surreals are a universal ordered field. \n\nIn 1907 Hans Hahn introduced Hahn series as a generalization of formal power series, and Hausdorff introduced certain ordered sets called η-sets for ordinals α and asked if it was possible to find a compatible ordered group or field structure. In 1962 Alling used a modified form of Hahn series to construct such ordered fields associated to certain ordinals α, and taking α to be the class of all ordinals in his construction gives a class that is an ordered field isomorphic to the surreal numbers. \nResearch on the go endgame by John Horton Conway led to another definition and construction of the surreal numbers. Conway's construction was introduced in Donald Knuth's 1974 book \"Surreal Numbers: How Two Ex-Students Turned on to Pure Mathematics and Found Total Happiness\". In his book, which takes the form of a dialogue, Knuth coined the term \"surreal numbers\" for what Conway had called simply \"numbers\". Conway later adopted Knuth's term, and used surreals for analyzing games in his 1976 book \"On Numbers and Games\".\n\nIn the Conway construction, the surreal numbers are constructed in stages, along with an ordering ≤ such that for any two surreal numbers \"a\" and \"b\", \"a\" ≤ \"b\" or \"b\" ≤ \"a\". (Both may hold, in which case \"a\" and \"b\" are equivalent and denote the same number.) Numbers are formed by pairing subsets of numbers already constructed: given subsets \"L\" and \"R\" of numbers such that all the members of \"L\" are strictly less than all the members of \"R\", then the pair { \"L\" | \"R\" } represents a number intermediate in value between all the members of \"L\" and all the members of \"R\".\n\nDifferent subsets may end up defining the same number: { \"L\" | \"R\" } and { \"L′\" | \"R′\" } may define the same number even if \"L\" ≠ \"L′\" and \"R\" ≠ \"R′\". (A similar phenomenon occurs when rational numbers are defined as quotients of integers: 1/2 and 2/4 are different representations of the same rational number.) So strictly speaking, the surreal numbers are equivalence classes of representations of form { \"L\" | \"R\" } that designate the same number.\n\nIn the first stage of construction, there are no previously existing numbers so the only representation must use the empty set: { | }. This representation, where \"L\" and \"R\" are both empty, is called 0. Subsequent stages yield forms like\n\nand\n\nThe integers are thus contained within the surreal numbers. (The above identities are definitions, in the sense that the right-hand side is a name for the left-hand side. That the names are actually appropriate will be evident when the arithmetic operations on surreal numbers are defined, as in the section below). Similarly, representations such as\n\narise, so that the dyadic rationals (rational numbers whose denominators are powers of 2) are contained within the surreal numbers.\n\nAfter an infinite number of stages, infinite subsets become available, so that any real number \"a\" can be represented by { \"L\" | \"R\" },\nwhere \"L\" is the set of all dyadic rationals less than \"a\" and \n\"R\" is the set of all dyadic rationals greater than \"a\" (reminiscent of a Dedekind cut). Thus the real numbers are also embedded within the surreals.\n\nThere are also representations like\n\nwhere ω is a transfinite number greater than all integers and ε is an infinitesimal greater than 0 but less than any positive real number. Moreover, the standard arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division) can be extended to these non-real numbers in a manner that turns the collection of surreal numbers into an ordered field, so that one can talk about 2ω or ω − 1 and so forth.\n\nSurreal numbers are constructed inductively as equivalence classes of pairs of sets of surreal numbers, restricted by the condition that each element of the first set is smaller than each element of the second set. The construction consists of three interdependent parts: the construction rule, the comparison rule and the equivalence rule.\n\nA \"form\" is a pair of sets of surreal numbers, called its \"left set\" and its \"right set\". A form with left set \"L\" and right set \"R\" is written { \"L\" | \"R\" }. When \"L\" and \"R\" are given as lists of elements, the braces around them are omitted.\n\nEither or both of the left and right set of a form may be the empty set. The form { { } | { } } with both left and right set empty is also written { | }.\n\nConstruction Rule\n\nThe numeric forms are placed in equivalence classes; each such equivalence class is a \"surreal number\". The elements of the left and right set of a form are drawn from the universe of the surreal numbers (not of \"forms\", but of their \"equivalence classes\").\n\nEquivalence Rule\n\nAn ordering relationship must be antisymmetric, i.e., it must have the property that \"x\" = \"y\" (i. e., \"x\" ≤ \"y\" and \"y\" ≤ \"x\" are both true) only when \"x\" and \"y\" are the same object. This is not the case for surreal number \"forms\", but is true by construction for surreal \"numbers\" (equivalence classes).\n\nThe equivalence class containing { | } is labeled 0; in other words, { | } is a form of the surreal number 0.\n\nThe recursive definition of surreal numbers is completed by defining comparison:\n\nGiven numeric forms \"x\" = { \"X\" | \"X\" } and \"y\" = { \"Y\" | \"Y\" }, \"x\" ≤ \"y\" if and only if:\nA comparison \"y\" ≤ \"c\" between a form \"y\" and a surreal number \"c\" is performed by choosing a form \"z\" from the equivalence class \"c\" and evaluating \"y\" ≤ \"z\"; and likewise for \"c\" ≤ \"x\" and for comparison \"b\" ≤ \"c\" between two surreal numbers.\n\nThis group of definitions is recursive, and requires some form of mathematical induction to define the universe of objects (forms and numbers) that occur in them. The only surreal numbers reachable via \"finite induction\" are the dyadic fractions; a wider universe is reachable given some form of transfinite induction.\n\nInduction Rule\n\nThe base case is actually a special case of the induction rule, with 0 taken as a label for the \"least ordinal\". Since there exists no \"S\" with \"i\" < 0, the expression formula_2 is the empty set; the only subset of the empty set is the empty set, and therefore \"S\" consists of a single surreal form { | } lying in a single equivalence class 0.\n\nFor every finite ordinal number \"n\", \"S\" is well-ordered by the ordering induced by the comparison rule on the surreal numbers.\n\nThe first iteration of the induction rule produces the three numeric forms { | 0 } < { | } < { 0 | } (the form { 0 | 0 } is non-numeric because 0≤0). The equivalence class containing { 0 | } is labeled 1 and the equivalence class containing { | 0 } is labeled −1. These three labels have a special significance in the axioms that define a ring; they are the additive identity (0), the multiplicative identity (1), and the additive inverse of 1 (−1). The arithmetic operations defined below are consistent with these labels.\n\nFor every \"i\" < \"n\", since every valid form in \"S\" is also a valid form in \"S\", all of the numbers in \"S\" also appear in \"S\" (as supersets of their representation in \"S\"). (The set union expression appears in our construction rule, rather than the simpler form \"S\", so that the definition also makes sense when \"n\" is a limit ordinal.) Numbers in \"S\" that are a superset of some number in \"S\" are said to have been \"inherited\" from generation \"i\". The smallest value of α for which a given surreal number appears in \"S\" is called its \"birthday\". For example, the birthday of 0 is 0, and the birthday of −1 is 1.\n\nA second iteration of the construction rule yields the following ordering of equivalence classes:\n\nComparison of these equivalence classes is consistent, irrespective of the choice of form. Three observations follow:\n\nThe informal interpretations of { 1 | } and { | −1 } are \"the number just after 1\" and \"the number just before −1\" respectively; their equivalence classes are labeled 2 and −2. The informal interpretations of { 0 | 1 } and { −1 | 0 } are \"the number halfway between 0 and 1\" and \"the number halfway between −1 and 0\" respectively; their equivalence classes are labeled / and −/. These labels will also be justified by the rules for surreal addition and multiplication below.\n\nThe equivalence classes at each stage \"n\" of induction may be characterized by their \"n\"-\"complete forms\" (each containing as many elements as possible of previous generations in its left and right sets). Either this complete form contains \"every\" number from previous generations in its left or right set, in which case this is the first generation in which this number occurs; or it contains all numbers from previous generations but one, in which case it is a new form of this one number. We retain the labels from the previous generation for these \"old\" numbers, and write the ordering above using the old and new labels:\n\nThe third observation extends to all surreal numbers with finite left and right sets. (For infinite left or right sets, this is valid in an altered form, since infinite sets might not contain a maximal or minimal element.) The number { 1, 2 | 5, 8 } is therefore equivalent to { 2 | 5 }; one can establish that these are forms of 3 by using the \"birthday property\", which is a consequence of the rules above.\n\nBirthday property\n\nThe addition, negation (additive inverse), and multiplication of surreal number \"forms\" \"x\" = { \"X\" | \"X\" } and \"y\" = { \"Y\" | \"Y\" } are defined by three recursive formulas.\n\nNegation of a given number \"x\" = { \"X\" | \"X\" } is defined by\nwhere the negation of a set \"S\" of numbers is given by the set of the negated elements of \"S\":\n\nThis formula involves the negation of the surreal \"numbers\" appearing in the left and right sets of \"x\", which is to be understood as the result of choosing a form of the number, evaluating the negation of this form, and taking the equivalence class of the resulting form. This only makes sense if the result is the same, irrespective of the choice of form of the operand. This can be proven inductively using the fact that the numbers occurring in \"X\" and \"X\" are drawn from generations earlier than that in which the form \"x\" first occurs, and observing the special case:\n\nThe definition of addition is also a recursive formula:\nwhere\n\nThis formula involves sums of one of the original operands and a surreal \"number\" drawn from the left or right set of the other. These are to be understood as the result of choosing a form of the numeric operand, performing the sum of the two forms, and taking the equivalence class of the resulting form. This only makes sense if the result is the same, irrespective of the choice of form of the numeric operand. This can also be proven inductively with the special cases:\n\nThe recursive formula for multiplication contains arithmetic expressions involving the operands and their left and right sets, such as the expression formula_7 that appears in the left set of the product of \"x\" and \"y\". This is to be understood as the set of surreal numbers resulting from choosing one number from each set that appears in the expression and evaluating the expression on these numbers. (In each individual evaluation of the expression, only one number is chosen from each set, and is substituted in each place where that set appears in the expression.)\n\nThis depends, in turn, on the ability to (a) multiply pairs of surreal \"numbers\" drawn from the left and right sets of \"x\" and \"y\" to get a surreal number, and negate the result; (b) multiply the surreal number \"form\" \"x\" or \"y\" and a surreal \"number\" drawn from the left or right set of the other operand to get a surreal number; and (c) add the resulting surreal numbers. This again involves special cases, this time containing 0 = { | }, the multiplicative identity 1 = { 0 | }, and its additive inverse -1 = { | 0 }.\n\nThe definition of division is done in terms of the reciprocal and multiplication:\n\nformula_9\n\nwhere\n\nformula_10\n\nfor positive formula_11. Only positive formula_12 are permitted in the formula, with any nonpositive terms being ignored (and formula_13 are always positive). This formula involves not only recursion in terms of being able to divide by numbers from the left and right sets of formula_11, but also recursion in that the members of the left and right sets of formula_15 itself. formula_16 is always a member of the left set of formula_15, and that can be used to find more terms in a recursive fashion. For example, if formula_18, then we know a left term of formula_19 will be formula_16. This in turn means formula_21 is a right term. This means formula_22 is a left term. This means formula_23 will be a right term. Continuing, this gives formula_24.\n\nFor negative formula_11, formula_15 is given by formula_27. If formula_28, then formula_29 is undefined.\n\nIt can be shown that the definitions of negation, addition and multiplication are consistent, in the sense that:\n\nWith these rules one can now verify that the numbers found in the first few generations were properly labeled. The construction rule is repeated to obtain more generations of surreals:\n\nFor each natural number (finite ordinal) \"n\", all numbers generated in \"S\" are dyadic fractions, i.e., can be written as an irreducible fraction formula_30\nwhere \"a\" and \"b\" are integers and 0 ≤ \"b\" < \"n\".\n\nThe set of all surreal numbers that are generated in some \"S\" for finite \"n\" may be denoted as \"S\" = formula_31. One may form the three classes \"S\" = { 0 }, \"S\" = formula_32, and \"S\" = formula_33, of which \"S\" is the union. No individual \"S\" is closed under addition and multiplication (except \"S\"), but \"S\" is; it is the subring of the rationals consisting of all dyadic fractions.\n\nThere are infinite ordinal numbers β for which the set of surreal numbers with birthday less than β is closed under the different arithmetic operations. For any ordinal α, the set of surreal numbers with birthday less than β = ω (using powers of ω) is closed under addition and forms a group; for birthday less than ω it is closed under multiplication and forms a ring; and for birthday less than an (ordinal) epsilon number ε it is closed under multiplicative inverse and forms a field. The latter sets are also closed under the exponential function as defined by Kruskal and Gonshor.\n\nHowever, it is always possible to construct a surreal number that is greater than any member of a set (by including the set on the left side of the constructor) and thus the collection of surreal numbers is a proper class. With their ordering and algebraic operations they constitute an ordered field, with the caveat that they do not form a set. In fact, it is a very special ordered field: the biggest one. Every other ordered field can be embedded in the surreals. The class of all surreal numbers is denoted by the symbol formula_34.\n\nDefine \"S\" as the set of all surreal numbers generated by the construction rule from subsets of \"S\". (This is the same inductive step as before, since the ordinal number ω is the smallest ordinal that is larger than all natural numbers; however, the set union appearing in the inductive step is now an infinite union of finite sets, and so this step can only be performed in a set theory that allows such a union.) A unique infinitely large positive number occurs in \"S\":\n\"S\" also contains objects that can be identified as the rational numbers. For example, the ω-complete form of the fraction / is given by:\nThe product of this form of / with any form of 3 is a form whose left set contains only numbers less than 1 and whose right set contains only numbers greater than 1; the birthday property implies that this product is a form of 1.\n\nNot only do all the rest of the rational numbers appear in \"S\"; the remaining finite real numbers do too. For example,\n\nThe only infinities in \"S\" are ω and −ω; but there are other non-real numbers in \"S\" among the reals. Consider the smallest positive number in \"S\":\nThis number is larger than zero but less than all positive dyadic fractions. It is therefore an infinitesimal number, often labeled ε. The ω-complete form of ε (resp. -ε) is the same as the ω-complete form of 0, except that 0 is included in the left (resp. right) set. The only \"pure\" infinitesimals in \"S\" are ε and its additive inverse -ε; adding them to any dyadic fraction \"y\" produces the numbers \"y\"±ε, which also lie in \"S\".\n\nOne can determine the relationship between ω and ε by multiplying particular forms of them to obtain:\nThis expression is only well-defined in a set theory which permits transfinite induction up to formula_39. In such a system, one can demonstrate that all the elements of the left set of ω · ε are positive infinitesimals and all the elements of the right set are positive infinities, and therefore ω · ε is the oldest positive finite number, i. e., 1. Consequently,\nSome authors systematically use ω in place of the symbol ε.\n\nGiven any \"x\" = { \"L\" | \"R\" } in \"S\", exactly one of the following is true:\n\n\"S\" is not an algebraic field, because it is not closed under arithmetic operations; consider ω+1, whose form formula_42 does not lie in any number in \"S\". The maximal subset of \"S\" that is closed under (finite series of) arithmetic operations is the field of real numbers, obtained by leaving out the infinities ±ω, the infinitesimals ±ε, and the infinitesimal neighbors \"y\"±ε of each nonzero dyadic fraction \"y\".\n\nThis construction of the real numbers differs from the Dedekind cuts of standard analysis in that it starts from dyadic fractions rather than general rationals and naturally identifies each dyadic fraction in \"S\" with its forms in previous generations. (The ω-complete forms of real elements of \"S\" are in one-to-one correspondence with the reals obtained by Dedekind cuts, under the proviso that Dedekind reals corresponding to rational numbers are represented by the form in which the cut point is omitted from both left and right sets.) The rationals are not an identifiable stage in the surreal construction; they are merely the subset \"Q\" of \"S\" containing all elements \"x\" such that \"x\" \"b\" = \"a\" for some \"a\" and some nonzero \"b\", both drawn from \"S\". By demonstrating that \"Q\" is closed under individual repetitions of the surreal arithmetic operations, one can show that it is a field; and by showing that every element of \"Q\" is reachable from \"S\" by a finite series (no longer than two, actually) of arithmetic operations \"including multiplicative inversion\", one can show that \"Q\" is strictly smaller than the subset of \"S\" identified with the reals.\n\nThe set \"S\" has the same cardinality as the real numbers \"R\". This can be demonstrated by exhibiting surjective mappings from \"S\" to the closed unit interval \"I\" of \"R\" and vice versa. Mapping \"S\" onto \"I\" is routine; map numbers less than or equal to ε (including -ω) to 0, numbers greater than or equal to 1-ε (including ω) to 1, and numbers between ε and 1-ε to their equivalent in \"I\" (mapping the infinitesimal neighbors \"y\"±ε of each dyadic fraction \"y\", along with \"y\" itself, to \"y\"). To map \"I\" onto \"S\", map the (open) central third (1/3, 2/3) of \"I\" onto { | } = 0; the central third (7/9, 8/9) of the upper third to { 0 | } = 1; and so forth. This maps a nonempty open interval of \"I\" onto each element of \"S\", monotonically. The residue of \"I\" consists of the Cantor set \"2\", each point of which is uniquely identified by a partition of the central-third intervals into left and right sets, corresponding precisely to a form { \"L\" | \"R\" } in \"S\". This places the Cantor set in one-to-one correspondence with the set of surreal numbers with birthday ω.\n\nContinuing to perform transfinite induction beyond \"S\" produces more ordinal numbers α, each represented as the largest surreal number having birthday α. (This is essentially a definition of the ordinal numbers resulting from transfinite induction.) The first such ordinal is ω+1 = { ω | }. There is another positive infinite number in generation ω+1:\nIt is important to observe that the surreal number ω−1 is not an ordinal; the ordinal ω is not the successor of any ordinal. This is a surreal number with birthday ω+1, which is labeled ω−1 on the basis that it coincides with the sum of ω = { 1, 2, 3, 4, ... | } and −1 = { | 0 }. Similarly, there are two new infinitesimal numbers in generation ω+1:\n\nAt a later stage of transfinite induction, there is a number larger than ω+\"k\" for all natural numbers \"k\":\nThis number may be labeled ω + ω both because its birthday is ω + ω (the first ordinal number not reachable from ω by the successor operation) and because it coincides with the surreal sum of ω and ω; it may also be labeled 2ω because it coincides with the product of ω = { 1, 2, 3, 4, ... | } and 2 = { 1 | }. It is the second limit ordinal; reaching it from ω via the construction step requires a transfinite induction on formula_43. This involves an infinite union of infinite sets, which is a \"stronger\" set theoretic operation than the previous transfinite induction required.\n\nNote that the \"conventional\" addition and multiplication of ordinals does not always coincide with these operations on their surreal representations. The sum of ordinals 1 + ω equals ω, but the surreal sum is commutative and produces 1 + ω = ω + 1 > ω. The addition and multiplication of the surreal numbers associated with ordinals coincides with the natural sum and natural product of ordinals.\n\nJust as 2ω is bigger than ω + \"n\" for any natural number \"n\", there is a surreal number ω/2 that is infinite but smaller than ω − \"n\" for any natural number \"n\". That is, ω/2 is defined by\nwhere on the right hand side the notation \"x\" − \"Y\" is used to mean { \"x\" − \"y\" : \"y\" in \"Y\" }. It can be identified as the product of ω and the form { 0 | 1 } of /. The birthday of / is the limit ordinal ω2.\n\nTo classify the \"orders\" of infinite and infinitesimal surreal numbers, also known as archimedean classes, Conway associated to each surreal number \"x\" the surreal number\nwhere \"r\" and \"s\" range over the positive real numbers. If \"x\" < \"y\" then ω is \"infinitely greater\" than ω, in that it is greater than \"r\" ω for all real numbers \"r\". Powers of ω also satisfy the conditions\nso they behave the way one would expect powers to behave.\n\nEach power of ω also has the redeeming feature of being the \"simplest\" surreal number in its archimedean class; conversely, every archimedean class within the surreal numbers contains a unique simplest member. Thus, for every positive surreal number \"x\" there will always exist some positive real number \"r\" and some surreal number \"y\" so that \"x\" − \"r\" ω is \"infinitely smaller\" than \"x\". The exponent \"y\" is the \"base ω logarithm\" of \"x\", defined on the positive surreals; it can be demonstrated that log maps the positive surreals onto the surreals and that log(\"xy\") = log(\"x\") + log(\"y\").\n\nThis gets extended by transfinite induction so that every surreal number \"x\" has a \"normal form\" analogous to the Cantor normal form for ordinal numbers. Every surreal number may be uniquely written as\nwhere every \"r\" is a nonzero real number and the \"y\"s form a strictly decreasing sequence of surreal numbers. This \"sum\", however, may have infinitely many terms, and in general has the length of an arbitrary ordinal number. (Zero corresponds of course to the case of an empty sequence, and is the only surreal number with no leading exponent.)\n\nLooked at in this manner, the surreal numbers resemble a power series field, except that the decreasing sequences of exponents must be bounded in length by an ordinal and are not allowed to be as long as the class of ordinals. This is the basis for the formulation of the surreal numbers as a Hahn series.\n\nIn contrast to the real numbers, a (proper) subset of the surreal numbers does not have a least upper (or lower) bound unless it has a maximal (minimal) element. Conway defines a gap as {\"L\" | \"R\"}, \"L\" < \"R\", \"L\" ∪ \"R\" = 𝐍𝐨; this is not a number because at least one of the sides is a proper class. Though similar, gaps are not quite the same as Dedekind sections, but we can still talk about a completion 𝐍𝐨 of the surreal numbers with the natural ordering which is a (proper class-sized) linear continuum.\n\nFor instance there is no least positive infinite surreal, but the gap ∞ = {\"x\": ∃ \"n\" ∈ ℕ: \"x\" < \"n\" | \"x\": ∀ \"n\" ∈ ℕ: \"x\" > \"n\"} is greater than all real numbers and less than all positive infinite surreals, and is thus the least upper bound of the reals in 𝐍𝐨. Similarly the gap 𝐎𝐧 = { 𝐍𝐨 | } is larger than all surreal numbers. (𝐎𝐧 is also the name of the class of ordinal numbers, and since 𝐎𝐧 is cofinal in 𝐍𝐨 and thus 𝐎𝐧 = { 𝐎𝐧 | } as well, this extends the equivalence of an ordinal α with the set of ordinals smaller than α).\n\nWith a bit of set-theoretic care 𝐍𝐨 can be equipped with a topology where the open sets are unions of open intervals (indexed by proper sets) and continuous functions can be defined. An equivalent of Cauchy sequences can be defined as well although they have to be indexed by the class of ordinals; these will always converge, but the limit may be either a number or a gap that can be expressed as ∑\"r\"ω with\n\"a\" decreasing and having no lower bound in 𝐍𝐨. (All such gaps can be understood as Cauchy sequences themselves but there are other types of gap that are not limits, such as ∞ and 𝐎𝐧).\n\nBased on unpublished work by Kruskal, a construction (by transfinite induction) that extends the real exponential function exp(\"x\") (with base \"e\") to the surreals was carried through by Gonshor.\n\nThe powers of ω function is also an exponential function, but does not have the properties desired for an extension of the function on the reals. It will, however, be needed in the development of the base-\"e\" exponential, and it is this function that is meant whenever the notation ω is used in the following.\n\nWhen \"y\" is a dyadic fraction, the power function , may be composed from multiplication, multiplicative inverse and square root, all of which can be defined inductively. Its values are completely determined by the basic relation and where defined it necessarily agrees with any other exponentiation that can exist.\n\nThe induction steps for the surreal exponential are based on the series expansion for the real exponential, more specifically those partial sums that can be shown by basic algebra to be positive but less than all later ones. For \"x\" positive these are denoted [\"x\"] and include all partial sums; for \"x\" negative but finite, [\"x\"] denotes the odd steps in the series starting from the first one with a positive real part (which always exists). For \"x\" negative infinite the odd-numbered partial sums are strictly decreasing and the [\"x\"] notation denotes the empty set, but it turns out that the corresponding elements are not needed in the induction.\n\nThe relations that hold for real\n\nare then\n\nand\n\nand this can be extended to the surreals with the definition \nUsing this definition, the following holds:\n\nThe surreal exponential is essentially given by its behaviour on positive powers of ω, i.e., the function \"g(a)\", combined with well-known behaviour on finite numbers. Only examples of the former will be given. In addition, holds for a large part of its range, for instance for any finite number with positive real part and any infinite number that is less than some iterated power of ω ( for some number of levels).\n\nA general exponentiation can be defined as , giving an interpretation to expressions like . Again it is essential to distinguish this definition from the \"powers of ω\" function, especially if ω may occur as the base.\n\nA surcomplex number is a number of the form , where \"a\" and \"b\" are surreal numbers. The surcomplex numbers form an algebraically closed field (except for being a proper class), isomorphic to the algebraic closure of the field generated by extending the rational numbers by a proper class of algebraically independent transcendental elements. Up to field isomorphism, this fact characterizes the field of surcomplex numbers within any fixed set theory.\n\nThe definition of surreal numbers contained one restriction: each element of L must be strictly less than each element of R. If this restriction is dropped we can generate a more general class known as \"games\". All games are constructed according to this rule:\n\nAddition, negation, and comparison are all defined the same way for both surreal numbers and games.\n\nEvery surreal number is a game, but not all games are surreal numbers, e.g. the game { 0 | 0 } is not a surreal number. The class of games is more general than the surreals, and has a simpler definition, but lacks some of the nicer properties of surreal numbers. The class of surreal numbers forms a field, but the class of games does not. The surreals have a total order: given any two surreals, they are either equal, or one is greater than the other. The games have only a partial order: there exist pairs of games that are neither equal, greater than, nor less than each other. Each surreal number is either positive, negative, or zero. Each game is either positive, negative, \"zero\", or \"fuzzy\" (incomparable with zero, such as {1|−1}).\n\nA move in a game involves the player whose move it is choosing a game from those available in L (for the left player) or R (for the right player) and then passing this chosen game to the other player. A player who cannot move because the choice is from the empty set has lost. A positive game represents a win for the left player, a negative game for the right player, a zero game for the second player to move, and a fuzzy game for the first player to move.\n\nIf \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" are surreals, and \"x\"=\"y\", then \"x\" \"z\"=\"y\" \"z\". However, if \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" are games, and \"x\"=\"y\", then it is not always true that \"x\" \"z\"=\"y\" \"z\". Note that \"=\" here means equality, not identity.\n\nThe surreal numbers were originally motivated by studies of the game Go, and there are numerous connections between popular games and the surreals. In this section, we will use a capitalized \"Game\" for the mathematical object {L|R}, and the lowercase \"game\" for recreational games like Chess or Go.\n\nWe consider games with these properties:\n\nFor most games, the initial board position gives no great advantage to either player. As the game progresses and one player starts to win, board positions will occur in which that player has a clear advantage. For analyzing games, it is useful to associate a Game with every board position. The value of a given position will be the Game {L|R}, where L is the set of values of all the positions that can be reached in a single move by Left. Similarly, R is the set of values of all the positions that can be reached in a single move by Right.\n\nThe zero Game (called 0) is the Game where L and R are both empty, so the player to move next (L or R) immediately loses. The sum of two Games G = { L1 | R1 } and H = { L2 | R2 } is defined as the Game G + H = { L1 + H, G + L2 | R1 + H, G + R2 } where the player to move chooses which of the Games to play in at each stage, and the loser is still the player who ends up with no legal move. One can imagine two chess boards between two players, with players making moves alternatively, but with complete freedom as to which board to play on. If G is the Game {L | R}, -G is the game {-R | -L}, i.e. with the role of the two players reversed. It is easy to show G - G = 0 for all Games G (where G - H is defined as G + (-H)).\n\nThis simple way to associate Games with games yields a very interesting result. Suppose two perfect players play a game starting with a given position whose associated Game is \"x\". We can classify all Games into four classes as follows:\n\n\nMore generally, we can define G > H as G - H > 0, and similarly for <, = and ||.\n\nThe notation G || H means that G and H are incomparable. G || H is equivalent to G−H || 0, i.e. that G > H, G < H and G = H are all false. Incomparable games are sometimes said to be \"confused\" with each other, because one or the other may be preferred by a player depending on what is added to it. A game confused with zero is said to be fuzzy, as opposed to positive, negative, or zero. An example of a fuzzy game is star (*).\n\nSometimes when a game nears the end, it will decompose into several smaller games that do not interact, except in that each player's turn allows moving in only one of them. For example, in Go, the board will slowly fill up with pieces until there are just a few small islands of empty space where a player can move. Each island is like a separate game of Go, played on a very small board. It would be useful if each subgame could be analyzed separately, and then the results combined to give an analysis of the entire game. This doesn't appear to be easy to do. For example, you might have two subgames where whoever moves first wins, but when they are combined into one big game, it's no longer the first player who wins. Fortunately, there is a way to do this analysis. Just use the following remarkable theorem:\n\nA game composed of smaller games is called the disjunctive sum of those smaller games, and the theorem states that the method of addition we defined is equivalent to taking the disjunctive sum of the addends.\n\nHistorically, Conway developed the theory of surreal numbers in the reverse order of how it has been presented here. He was analyzing Go endgames, and realized that it would be useful to have some way to combine the analyses of non-interacting subgames into an analysis of their disjunctive sum. From this he invented the concept of a Game and the addition operator for it. From there he moved on to developing a definition of negation and comparison. Then he noticed that a certain class of Games had interesting properties; this class became the surreal numbers. Finally, he developed the multiplication operator, and proved that the surreals are actually a field, and that it includes both the reals and ordinals.\n\nThe name surreal number was first used by Conway in 1972, but there are several alternative constructions developed both before and after that.\n\nIn what is now called the \"sign-expansion\" or \"sign-sequence\" of a surreal number, a surreal number is a function whose domain is an ordinal and whose codomain is { −1, +1 }. This is equivalent to Conway's L-R sequences.\n\nDefine the binary predicate \"simpler than\" on numbers by \"x\" is simpler than \"y\" if \"x\" is a proper subset of \"y\", \"i.e.\" if dom(\"x\") < dom(\"y\") and \"x\"(α) = \"y\"(α) for all α < dom(\"x\").\n\nFor surreal numbers define the binary relation < to be lexicographic order (with the convention that \"undefined values\" are greater than −1 and less than 1). So \"x\" < \"y\" if one of the following holds:\n\nEquivalently, let δ(\"x\",\"y\") = min({ dom(\"x\"), dom(\"y\")} ∪ { α :\nα < dom(\"x\") ∧ α < dom(\"y\") ∧ \"x\"(α) ≠ \"y\"(α) }),\nso that \"x\" = \"y\" if and only if δ(\"x\",\"y\") = dom(\"x\") = dom(\"y\"). Then, for numbers \"x\" and \"y\", \"x\" < \"y\" if and only if one of the following holds:\n\nFor numbers \"x\" and \"y\", \"x\" ≤ \"y\" if and only if \"x\" < \"y\" ∨ \"x\" = \"y\", and \"x\" > \"y\" if and only if \"y\" < \"x\". Also \"x\" ≥ \"y\" if and only if \"y\" ≤ \"x\".\n\nThe relation < is transitive, and for all numbers \"x\" and \"y\", exactly one of \"x\" < \"y\", \"x\" = \"y\", \"x\" > \"y\", holds (law of trichotomy). This means that < is a linear order (except that < is a proper class).\n\nFor sets of numbers, \"L\" and \"R\" such that ∀\"x\" ∈ \"L\" ∀\"y\" ∈ \"R\" (\"x\" < \"y\"), there exists a unique number \"z\" such that\n\nFurthermore, \"z\" is constructible from \"L\" and \"R\" by transfinite induction. \"z\" is the simplest number between \"L\" and \"R\". Let the unique number \"z\" be denoted by σ(\"L\",\"R\").\n\nFor a number \"x\", define its left set \"L\"(\"x\") and right set \"R\"(\"x\") by\n\nthen σ(\"L\"(\"x\"),\"R\"(\"x\")) = \"x\".\n\nOne advantage of this alternative realization is that equality is identity, not an inductively defined relation. Unlike Conway's realization of the surreal numbers, however, the sign-expansion requires a prior construction of the ordinals, while in Conway's realization, the ordinals are constructed as particular cases of surreals.\n\nHowever, similar definitions can be made that eliminate the need for prior construction of the ordinals. For instance, we could let the surreals be the (recursively-defined) class of functions whose domain is a subset of the surreals satisfying the transitivity rule ∀\"g\" ∈ dom \"f\" (∀\"h\" ∈ dom \"g\" (\"h\" ∈ dom \"f\" )) and whose range is { −, + }. \"Simpler than\" is very simply defined now—\"x\" is simpler than \"y\" if \"x\" ∈ dom \"y\". The total ordering is defined by considering \"x\" and \"y\" as sets of ordered pairs (as a function is normally defined): Either \"x\" = \"y\", or else the surreal number \"z\" = \"x\" ∩ \"y\" is in the domain of \"x\" or the domain of \"y\" (or both, but in this case the signs must disagree). We then have \"x\" < \"y\" if \"x\"(\"z\") = − or \"y\"(\"z\") = + (or both). Converting these functions into sign sequences is a straightforward task; arrange the elements of dom \"f\" in order of simplicity (i.e., inclusion), and then write down the signs that \"f\" assigns to each of these elements in order. The ordinals then occur naturally as those surreal numbers whose range is { + }.\n\nThe sum \"x\" + \"y\" of two numbers, \"x\" and \"y\", is defined by induction on dom(\"x\") and dom(\"y\") by \"x\" + \"y\" = σ(\"L\",\"R\"), where\n\nThe additive identity is given by the number 0 = { }, \"i.e.\" the number 0 is the unique function whose domain is the ordinal 0, and the additive inverse of the number \"x\" is the number − \"x\", given by dom(− \"x\") = dom(\"x\"), and, for α < dom(\"x\"), (− \"x\")(α) = − 1 if \"x\"(α) = + 1, and (− \"x\")(α) = + 1 if \"x\"(α) = − 1.\n\nIt follows that a number \"x\" is positive if and only if 0 < dom(\"x\") and \"x\"(0) = + 1, and \"x\" is negative if and only if 0 < dom(\"x\") and \"x\"(0) = − 1.\n\nThe product \"xy\" of two numbers, \"x\" and \"y\", is defined by induction on dom(\"x\") and dom(\"y\") by \"xy\" = σ(\"L\",\"R\"), where\n\nThe multiplicative identity is given by the number 1 = { (0,+ 1) }, \"i.e.\" the number 1 has domain equal to the ordinal 1, and 1(0) = + 1.\n\nThe map from Conway's realization to sign expansions is given by \"f\"({ \"L\" | \"R\" }) = σ(\"M\",\"S\"), where \"M\" = { \"f\"(\"x\") : \"x\" ∈ \"L\" } and \"S\" = { \"f\"(\"x\") : \"x\" ∈ \"R\" }.\n\nThe inverse map from the alternative realization to Conway's realization is given by \"g\"(\"x\") = { \"L\" | \"R\" }, where \"L\" = { \"g\"(\"y\") : \"y\" ∈ \"L\"(\"x\") } and \"R\" = { \"g\"(\"y\") : \"y\" ∈ \"R\"(\"x\") }.\n\nIn another approach to the surreals, given by Alling, explicit construction is bypassed altogether. Instead, a set of axioms is given that any particular approach to the surreals must satisfy. Much like the axiomatic approach to the reals, these axioms guarantee uniqueness up to isomorphism.\n\nA triple formula_44 is a surreal number system if and only if the following hold:\n\n\nBoth Conway's original construction and the sign-expansion construction of surreals satisfy these axioms.\n\nGiven these axioms, Alling derives Conway's original definition of ≤ and develops surreal arithmetic.\n\nA construction of the surreal numbers as a maximal binary pseudo-tree with simplicity (ancestor) and ordering relations is due to Philip Ehrlich, The difference from the usual definition of a tree is that the set of ancestors of a vertex is well-ordered, but may not have a maximal element (immediate predecessor); in other words the order type of that set is a general ordinal number, not just a natural number. This construction fulfills Alling's axioms as well and can easily be mapped to the sign-sequence representation.\n\nAlling also proves that the field of surreal numbers is isomorphic (as an ordered field) to the field of Hahn series with real coefficients on the value group of surreal numbers themselves (the series representation corresponding to the normal form of a surreal number, as defined above). This provides a connection between surreal numbers and more conventional mathematical approaches to ordered field theory.\n\nThis isomorphism makes the surreal numbers into a valued field where the valuation is the additive inverse of the exponent of the leading term in the Conway normal form, e.g., ν(ω) = -1. The valuation ring then consists of the finite surreal numbers (numbers with a real and/or an infinitesimal part). The reason for the sign inversion is that the exponents in the Conway normal form constitute a reverse well-ordered set, whereas Hahn series are formulated in terms of (non-reversed) well-ordered subsets of the value group.\n\nPhilip Ehrlich has constructed an isomorphism between Conway's maximal surreal number field and the maximal hyperreals in von Neumann–Bernays–Gödel set theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6254253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6254253", "title": "Sustainable community energy system", "text": "Sustainable community energy system\n\nA sustainable community energy system is an integrated approach to supplying a local community with its energy requirements from renewable energy or high-efficiency co-generation energy sources. The approach can be seen as a development of the distributed generation concept.\n\nSuch systems are based on a combination of district heating, district cooling, plus 'electricity generation islands' that are interlinked via a private wire electricity system (largely bypassing the normal power grid to cut transmission losses and charges, as well as increasing the robustness of the system). The surplus from one generating island can therefore be used to make up the deficit at another.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the first sustainable community energy system was pioneered by Woking Borough Council, starting in 1991. The system uses traditional and a phosphoric acid fuel cell co-generation plants, thermal storage, heat fired absorption cooling and photovoltaics (over 9% of the UK's small capacity), to supply both residential and non-residential customers, as well as the Council's own facilities. By end of 2005 there were over 60 generating islands in the Borough.\n\nDespite the investment in the plant, the system delivers cheaper energy than can be supplied from the traditional 'brown energy' suppliers, helping to tackle fuel poverty. It is part of a plan to cut local carbon dioxide emissions by 80% by 2050. Their initiatives won the Council the Queen's Award for Enterprise in 2002 .\n\nThe London Climate Change Agency is starting to construct a similar system in London.\n\nIn 1997, people of Wildpoldsried, in some cases acting as individuals, began a series of projects that produce renewable energy. The first efforts were wind turbines and biomass digesters for cogeneration of heat and power. In the time since, new work has included a number of energy conservation projects, more wind and biomass use, small hydro plants, photovoltaic panels on private houses, and district heating. Tied to this are ecological flood control and wastewater systems.\n\nToday, the effects of this are an unforeseen level of prosperity resulting in construction of nine new community buildings, including a school, gymnasium, and community hall, complete with solar panels. There are three companies operating four biogas digesters with a fifth under construction. There are seven windmills with two more on the way. One hundred and ninety private households are equipped with solar, which pays them dividends. The district heating network has 42 connections. There are three small hydro power plants. Wildpoldsried now produces 321 percent more energy than it needs and is generating 4.0 million Euro in annual revenue. At the same time, there has been a 65% reduction in the town’s carbon footprint.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1102521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102521", "title": "Value judgment", "text": "Value judgment\n\nA value judgment (or value judgement) is a judgment of the rightness or wrongness of something or someone, or of the usefulness of something or someone, based on a comparison or other relativity. As a generalization, a value judgment can refer to a judgment based upon a particular set of values or on a particular value system. A related meaning of value judgment is an expedient evaluation based upon limited information at hand, an evaluation undertaken because a decision must be made on short notice.\n\nThe term \"value judgment\" can be used objectively to refer to any injunction that implies an obligation to carry out an act, implicitly involving the terms \"ought\" or \"should\". It can be used either in a positive sense, signifying that a judgment must be made taking a value system into account, or in a disparaging sense, signifying a judgment made by personal whim rather than objective thought or evidence.\n\nIn its positive sense, a recommendation to make a value judgment is an admonition to consider carefully, to avoid whim and impetuousness, and search for consonance with one's deeper convictions, and to search for an objective, verifiable, public, and consensual set of evidence for the opinion.\n\nIn its disparaging sense the term \"value judgment\" implies a conclusion is insular, one-sided, and not objective — contrasting with judgments based upon deliberation, balance and public evidence.\n\n\"Value judgment\" also can refer to a tentative judgment based on a considered appraisal of the information at hand, taken to be incomplete and evolving—for example, a \"value judgment\" on whether to launch a military attack, or as to procedure in a medical emergency. In this case the quality of judgment suffers because the information available is incomplete as a result of exigency, rather than as a result of cultural or personal limitations.\n\nMost commonly the term \"value judgment\" refers to an individual's opinion. Of course, the individual's opinion is formed to a degree by their belief system, and the culture to which they belong. So a natural extension of the term \"value judgment\" is to include declarations seen one way from one value system, but may be seen differently from another. Conceptually this extension of definition is related both to the anthropological axiom \"cultural relativism\" (that is, that cultural meaning derives from a context) and to the term \"moral relativism\" (that is, that moral and ethical propositions are not universal truths, but stem from cultural context). A value judgment formed within a specific value system may be parochial, and may be subject to dispute in a wider audience.\n\n \nNonjudgmental is a descriptor that conveys the opposite meaning to the pejorative sense of value judgment: it expresses avoidance of personal opinion and reflex \"knee-jerk\" reactions.\n\nNonjudgmental implies open-mindedness, rejection of uninformed assumptions, and avoidance of blame. It may also suggest a capacity for compassion and empathy.\n\nJudgment call is a term describing decision made on a personal basis.\n\nValue-neutral is a related adjective suggesting independence from a value system. The object itself is considered value-neutral when it is neither good nor bad, neither useful nor useless, neither significant nor trite, until placed in some social context. For example, the classification of an object sometimes depends upon context: Is an object a tool or a weapon, is a human remain an artifact or an ancestor?\n\nA famous quote from mathematician G.H. Hardy indicates how he places the \"value-neutral\" subject of mathematics into a particular social context:\nFor a discussion of whether technology is value neutral, see Martin and Schinzinger, and Wallace.\n\nAn item may have value and be value-neutral \"regardless\" of social context if its utility or importance is more-or-less self-evident, for example, oxygen supports life in all societies.\n\nSome argue that true objectivity is impossible, that even the most rigorous rational analysis is founded on the set of values accepted in the course of analysis.\nConsequently, all conclusions are necessarily value judgments (and therefore may be parochial). Of course, putting all conclusions in one category does nothing to distinguish between them, and is therefore a useless descriptor. Categorizing a conclusion as a value judgment takes substance when the context framing the judgment is specified.\nAs an example, scientific \"truths\" are considered objective, but are held tentatively, with the understanding that more careful evidence and/or wider experience might change matters. Further, a scientific view (in the sense of a conclusion based upon a value system) is a \"value judgment\" that is socially constructed based upon rigorous evaluation and wide consensus. With this example in mind, characterizing a view as a \"value judgment\" is vague without description of the context surrounding it.\n\nHowever, as noted in the first segment of this article, in common usage the term \"value judgment\" has a much simpler meaning with context simply implied, not specified.\n\n"}
{"id": "54869660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54869660", "title": "Vera Brown Starr", "text": "Vera Brown Starr\n\nVera Brown Starr (May 23, 1924 – March 4, 1985) was the first woman elected as chair of the Yavapai-Apache Nation and served two years in the office, as well as serving over fifteen years on the council. She was one of the delegates to the 1977 National Women's Conference, a major U.S. women's conference held in conjunction with the International Women's Year celebrations of the United Nations. In 2012, her name was inscribed on an arch recognizing women who were Native American leaders at the University of Arizona.\n\nVera Brown was born on May 23, 1924 at the Indian Reservation of Camp Verde, Arizona to Mary and Sam Brown, members of the Mojave-Apache. She was the youngest of three siblings. Her father was a miner, working in the United Verde Mine near Jerome, Arizona and the smelters in Clarkdale and Clemenceau. Until she was school age, the family lived in a \"wickiup\" near Clarkdale. She attended the segregated public school in Clarkdale, which allowed whites to attend in the mornings and Hispanics and American Indians to attend afternoon classes and though she was placed in the morning session, she remembered experiencing discrimination and did not speak English. When she was eleven, her father died on April 19, 1935, from silicosis, having worked the mines without any protective respiratory equipment. She was sent to the Valentine Indian School under the American Indian boarding school program and graduated from the Indian High School in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Though she earned a scholarship to the University of New Mexico, Brown returned to Carkdale to care for her mother because the pension her father earned had ended after one year and her mother was denied social security. \n\nAfter World War II, Brown married Antonio L. Moreno (1924–1968), a veteran and miner, from Clarkdale. The couple originally made their home in Jerome, where their children Anthony Jr. (1948–2009) and Petra (1949–2011) were born. In 1949, they moved to Ajo, where Antonio worked at the Phelps-Dodge smelter. \n\nIn 1967, against her mother's recommendation, Moreno decided to run for a seat on the tribal council of the Yavapai-Apache Nation. After her husband's death in 1968, Moreno remarried with Henry Starr. She was successful in attaining a seat in 1969 and served for six years, before becoming the first woman to serve as the Tribal Chair in 1975. After serving two-years as Tribal Chair, the 1977 election was fraught with factionalism, causing a contested election, a court battle, and finally a new vote. Starr did not win her re-election bid as Chair. \n\nStarr joined the North American Indian Women's Association (NAIWA), an organization formed to foster inter-tribal betterment for Native Americans. In 1977, she attended the National Women's Conference, which was held in conjunction with the United Nations' International Women's Year celebrations. As one of Arizona's four Native American delegates, of specific interest to her were the anti-discrimination resolution passed by the women which addressed minority rights, including the removal of American Indian children from their homes and tribes, as well as the discussion of the failure of Arizona to pass Medicaid legislation to provide health care to low-income families.\n\nThough defeated in her bid for re-election to the chair, Starr continued to serve on the council, being returned in 1978 as a council member. In 1981, she was elected as treasurer of the tribe and held that post until her election as vice chair of the tribe in 1982. She returned as vice chair in 1983. Issues on which she focused during her time on the council were those that would improve the lives of tribe members. She advocated for improved housing, health care initiatives, and protection of water rights.\n\nStarr died on March 4, 1985 in Cottonwood, Arizona at the Marcus J. Lawrence Memorial Hospital. Posthumously, her name was inscribed in 2011 on the Native American Women of Arizona Arch on the University of Arizona campus, after having been selected to represent their tribe by the Yavapai-Apache Nation.\n\n"}
