{"id": "64577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64577", "title": "AIESEC", "text": "AIESEC\n\nAIESEC is the world's largest youth-run organization. It is an international non-governmental that provides young people with leadership development, cross-cultural global internships, and volunteer exchange experiences across the globe. The organization focuses on empowering young people to make a positive impact on society. The AIESEC network includes approximately 27,000 members in 127 countries .\n\nAIESEC is a non-governmental organization in consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), is affiliated with the UN DPI and UN's Office of the Secretary-General's Envoy on Youth, member of ICMYO, and is recognized by UNESCO. AIESEC's international headquarters are in Montreal, Canada.\n\n\"AIESEC\" was originally a French acronym for \"Association internationale des étudiants en sciences économiques et commerciales\" (English: International Association of Students in Economic and Commercial Sciences); however, the full name is no longer officially used as members can now be graduate and undergraduate from any university background.\n\nThe idea behind AIESEC started in 1948, when representatives from schools across Europe exchanged information about various programs and schools that specialized in business and economics. Students were carrying out internships in other countries. Mostly on their own initiative but it came to a standstill with the onslaught of World War II.\n\nIn 1944, the neutral Scandinavian countries were still exchanging students. In Stockholm, Bertil Hedberg, an official at the Stockholm School of Economics, and students Jaroslav Zich (of Czechoslovakia), Jean Choplin (of France) and Stanislas Callens (of Belgium) founded \"AIESEC\". This was the predecessor of AIESEC, which was officially founded in 1948. At the time, the organization's stated mission was “to expand the understanding of a nation by expanding the understanding of the individuals, changing the world one person at a time.”\n\nAt the time of AIESEC's founding at the conclusion of the 1940s, Europe was in the midst of recovery from the war that dealt grave losses to its population. Factories and enterprises were in desperate need of executives, managers and leaders. The continent needed more than just business development, however; the war had severely damaged relations between European nations, and many members of the community felt steps needed to be taken to address this problem.\n\nAIESEC was formed to address both of these concerns. Students from seven nations: Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Netherlands, Norway and Sweden came together in March 1949 for the first International Congress of AIESEC in Stockholm. The founders composed a constitution for the new organization and defined a purpose:\n\"AIESEC is an independent, non-political, and international organization which has as its purpose to establish and promote the friendly relations between the members.\"\n\nIn the first year of AIESEC's existence, 89 students were exchanged among the member nations.\n\nThe organization grew exponentially in the following years, with more than 1,000 exchanges took place in 1955 alone. In the following few years, AIESEC quickly became global by establishing its first North American member, the United States, in 1957, and its first South American and African members, Colombia, Venezuela, and South Africa in 1958.\n\nFor the first years of its existence, AIESEC had no central governing body, but was instead managed jointly by a Presiding Country Committee composed of the National Committee Presidents of each member nation. As the organization grew, a central governing body was created and led by democratically elected Secretary General. Morris Wolff, from the United States, was chosen as the first Secretary General in 1960, and established the first permanent international office for AIESEC in Geneva, Switzerland. Over the following decade, AIESEC expanded to eastern Asia, Australia, and deeper within Europe, Africa, North America, and South America, having a presence in 43 countries by 1969.\n\nAs of 2015, AIESEC has since expanded to 127 countries and territories across the globe. AIESEC annually offers over 27,500 leadership positions and delivers over 500 leadership conferences to its membership of over 100,000 student. It is present in over 2,400 universities in its 127 member countries and territories across the globe and its international exchange program that enables over 27,500 students and recent graduates the opportunity to work or volunteer in another country. AIESEC is supported by over 8,000 partner organizations.\n\nAIESEC provides a platform for young people in different universities and colleges, by going on an international internship and/or by joining various local chapters. These young individuals can develop their leadership potential by working and leading international teams. Associate membership opportunities allow young people to work with various NGO partners of AIESEC, and represent their country as a part of campus ambassador program. The organizations products are Global Talent, Global Entrepreneur, and Global Volunteer.\n\nEach year members have an opportunity to live and work in a foreign country. Participants can choose to work in areas of management, technology, education, or development; helping to build one's corporate skills.\n\nAIESEC hosts over 500 conferences every year that range in length and demographic scope. The purpose of conferences are to bring the international community of AIESEC members together to enhance their professional skills, provide networking opportunities, and work on organizational strategy. Topics of interest the organization focuses on include: Leadership, Sustainable development, Entrepreneurship, Innovation, Corporate Social Responsibility, and youth impact on modern society.\n\nThe Global Volunteer portfolio in AIESEC is an international volunteer program which allows youth aged 18-29 to contribute to the United Nations' sustainable development goals of 2030. The Global Volunteering programs are short-term in nature and provide youth with opportunities to travel abroad and work for Non-profit organizations with a special focus of second and third world countries. Projects include teaching, promoting HIV/AIDS awareness, working in human rights, environmental sustainability, leadership development and more. Since AIESEC is a non-profit organization, the exchange participants are to bear all expenses associated with travel including airfare, medical insurance, and transportation. AIESEC will provide food and accommodation. AIESEC's partnership with the United Nations seeks to tap the undiscovered potential of the youth globally and allow them to create a long-lasting impact to boost the international community. \n\nGlobal Entrepreneur is a global internship opportunity at a startup for young people who seek to develop themselves and their career. They are usually short term in nature and involve working in startup projects. Global youth unemployment has become one of the top challenges faced by the youth today. AIESEC contributes to this issue through its Global Entrepreneur program, where a young person works abroad with entrepreneurs in a startup, accelerator or incubator to advance their goals and grow; thus developing an entrepreneurial stint through a global opportunity allowing yourself to expand your network and develop on a personal and professional level.\nYouthSpeak Initiative is a youth movement powered by AIESEC. AIESEC believes that the society needs the young people of the world to take action on the UN goals for 2030, and AIESEC serves as a platform for youth empowerment. \n\nIn July 2015 AIESEC was recognized for the 9th time on the WorldBlu list of \"Most Freedom Centred Workplaces.\" An organization makes it onto the WorldBlu List through a rigorous Freedom at Work™ assessment process completed by employees. The assessment evaluates the overall design of an organization along a fear-based to freedom-centred continuum in three core areas: leadership, individual performance and systems and processes.\n\nAs of 2015, AIESEC is found in 126 countries and territories worldwide, including:\nAIESEC's alumni include a wide range of individuals, professionals, entrepreneurs, business people, politicians and a Nobel Prize winner. This is a non exhaustive list of notable AIESEC alumni:\n\n"}
{"id": "33844550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33844550", "title": "Active Learning in Higher Education", "text": "Active Learning in Higher Education\n\nActive Learning in Higher Education is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers three times a year in the field of Education. The journal's editor is Lynne P Baldwin (Brunel University). It has been in publication since 2000 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with Institute for Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.\n\n\"Active Learning in Higher Education \"is aimed at all those who teach and support learning in higher education and those who undertake or use research into effective learning, teaching and assessment in universities and colleges. The journal aims to focus on all aspects of development, innovations and good practice in higher education teaching and learning, including the use of information and communication technologies and issues concerning the management of teaching and learning.\n\n\"Active Learning in Higher Education\" is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:\n"}
{"id": "26592643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26592643", "title": "Adaptive learning", "text": "Adaptive learning\n\nAdaptive learning, also known as adaptive teaching, is an educational method which uses computer algorithms to orchestrate the interaction with the learner and deliver customized resources and learning activities to address the unique needs of each learner. In professional learning contexts, individuals may \"test out\" of some training to ensure they engage with novel instruction. Computers adapt the presentation of educational material according to students' learning needs, as indicated by their responses to questions, tasks and experiences. The technology encompasses aspects derived from various fields of study including computer science, AI, psychometrics, education, psychology, and brain science.\n\nAdaptive learning has been partially driven by a realization that tailored learning cannot be achieved on a large-scale using traditional, non-adaptive approaches. Adaptive learning systems endeavor to transform the learner from passive receptor of information to collaborator in the educational process. Adaptive learning systems' primary application is in education, but another popular application is business training. They have been designed as desktop computer applications, web applications, and are now being introduced into overall curricula.\n\nAdaptive learning or intelligent tutoring has its origins in the artificial-intelligence movement and began gaining popularity in the 1970s. At that time, it was commonly accepted that computers would eventually achieve the human ability of adaptivity. In adaptive learning, the basic premise is that the tool or system will be able to adjust to the student/user's learning method, which results in a better and more effective learning experience for the user. Back in the 70's the main barrier was the cost and size of the computers, rendering the widespread application impractical. Another hurdle in the adoption of early intelligent systems was that the user interfaces were not conducive to the learning process. The start of the work on adaptive and intelligent learning systems is usually traced back to the SCHOLAR system that offered adaptive learning for the topic of geography of South America. A number of other innovative systems appeared within five years. A good account of the early work on adaptive learning and intelligent tutoring systems can be found in the classic book \"Intelligent Tutoring Systems\".\n\nAdaptive learning systems have traditionally been divided into separate components or 'models'. While different model groups have been presented, most systems include some or all of the following models (occasionally with different names):\n\n\nThe expert model stores information about the material which is being taught. This can be as simple as the solutions for the question set but it can also include lessons and tutorials and, in more sophisticated systems, even expert methodologies to illustrate approaches to the questions.\n\nAdaptive learning systems which do not include an expert model will typically incorporate these functions in the instructional model.\n\nThe simplest means of determining a student's skill level is the method employed in CAT (computerized adaptive testing). In CAT, the subject is presented with questions that are selected based on their level of difficulty in relation to the presumed skill level of the subject. As the test proceeds, the computer adjusts the subject's score based on their answers, continuously fine-tuning the score by selecting questions from a narrower range of difficulty.\n\nAn algorithm for a CAT-style assessment is simple to implement. A large pool of questions is amassed and rated according to difficulty, through expert analysis, experimentation, or a combination of the two. The computer then performs what is essentially a binary search, always giving the subject a question which is halfway between what the computer has already determined to be the subject's maximum and minimum possible skill levels. These levels are then adjusted to the level of the difficulty of the question, reassigning the minimum if the subject answered correctly, and the maximum if the subject answered incorrectly. Obviously, a certain margin for error has to be built in to allow for scenarios where the subject's answer is not indicative of their true skill level but simply coincidental. Asking multiple questions from one level of difficulty greatly reduces the probability of a misleading answer, and allowing the range to grow beyond the assumed skill level can compensate for possible misevaluations.\n\nA further extension of identifying weaknesses in terms of concepts is to program the student model to analyze incorrect answers. This is especially applicable for multiple choice questions. Consider the following example:\n\nClearly, a student who answers (b) is adding the exponents and failing to grasp the concept of like terms. In this case, the incorrect answer provides additional insight beyond the simple fact that it is incorrect.\n\nThe instructional model generally looks to incorporate the best educational tools that technology has to offer (such as multimedia presentations) with expert teacher advice for presentation methods. The level of sophistication of the instructional model depends greatly on the level of sophistication of the student model. In a CAT-style student model, the instructional model will simply rank lessons in correspondence with the ranks for the question pool. When the student's level has been satisfactorily determined, the instructional model provides the appropriate lesson. The more advanced student models which assess based on concepts need an instructional model which organizes its lessons by concept as well. The instructional model can be designed to analyze the collection of weaknesses and tailor a lesson plan accordingly.\n\nWhen the incorrect answers are being evaluated by the student model, some systems look to provide feedback to the actual questions in the form of 'hints'. As the student makes mistakes, useful suggestions pop up such as \"look carefully at the sign of the number\". This too can fall in the domain of the instructional model, with generic concept-based hints being offered based on concept weaknesses, or the hints can be question-specific in which case the student, instructional, and expert models all overlap.\n\nAdaptive learning systems can be implemented on the Internet for use in distance learning and group collaboration.\n\nThe field of distance learning is now incorporating aspects of adaptive learning. Initial systems without adaptive learning were able to provide automated feedback to students who are presented questions from a preselected question bank. That approach however lacks the guidance which teachers in the classroom can provide. Current trends in distance learning call for the use of adaptive learning to implement intelligent dynamic behavior in the learning environment.\n\nDuring the time a student spends learning a new concept they are tested on their abilities and databases track their progress using one of the models. The latest generation of distance learning systems take into account the students' answers and adapt themselves to the student's cognitive abilities using a concept called 'cognitive scaffolding'. Cognitive scaffolding is the ability of an automated learning system to create a cognitive path of assessment from lowest to highest based on the demonstrated cognitive abilities. A current successful implementation of adaptive learning in web-based distance learning is the Maple engine of WebLearn by RMIT university. WebLearn is advanced enough that it can provide assessment of questions posed to students even if those questions have no unique answer like those in the Mathematics field.\n\nAdaptive learning can be incorporated to facilitate group collaboration within distance learning environments like forums or resource sharing services. Some examples of how adaptive learning can help with collaboration include automated grouping of users with the same interests, and personalization of links to information sources based on the user's stated interests or the user's surfing habits.\n\nIn 2014, an educational researcher concluded a multi-year study of adaptive learning for educational game design. The research developed and validated the ALGAE (Adaptive Learning GAme dEsign) model, a comprehensive adaptive learning model based on game design theories and practices, instructional strategies, and adaptive models. The research extended previous researching in game design, instructional strategies, and adaptive learning, combining those three components into a single complex model.\n\nThe study resulted in the development of an adaptive educational game design model to serve as a guide for game designers, instructional designers, and educators with the goal of increasing learning outcomes. Survey participants validated the value of the ALGAE model and provided specific insights on the model's construction, use, benefits, and challenges. The current ALGAE model is based on these insights. The model now serves as a guideline for the design and development of educational computer games.\n\nThe model's applicability is assessed as being cross-industry including government and military agencies/units, game industry, and academia. The model's actual value and the appropriate implementation approach (focused or unfocused) will be fully realized as the ALGAE model's adoption becomes more widespread.\n\nWhile adaptive learning features are often mentioned in the marketing materials of tools, the range of adaptivity can be dramatically different. Entry-level tools tend to focus on determining the learner's pathway based on simplistic criteria such as the learner's answer to a multiple choice question. A correct answer may take the learner to Path A, whereas an incorrect answer may take them to Path B. While these tools provide an adequate method for basic branching, they are often based on an underlying linear model whereby the learner is simply being redirected to a point somewhere along a predefined line. Due to this, their capabilities fall short of true adaptivity. At the other end of the spectrum, there are advanced tools which enable the creation of very complex adaptions based on any number of complex conditions. These conditions may relate to what the learner is currently doing, prior decisions, behavioral tracking, interactive and external activities to name a few. These higher end tools generally have no underlying navigation as they tend to utilize AI methods such as an inference engine. Due to the fundamental design difference advanced tools are able to provide rich assessment capabilities. Rather than taking a simple multiple choice question, the learner may be presented with a complex simulation where a number of factors are considered to determine how the learner should adapt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11182305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11182305", "title": "Alberto Pérez-Gómez", "text": "Alberto Pérez-Gómez\n\nAlberto Pérez-Gómez (born 24 December 1949) is an eminent architectural historian. He is also well known as an theorist with an orientation rooted in a phenomenological approach to architecture.\n\nBorn December 24, 1949, in Mexico City he graduated as an engineer and architect from the National Polytechnic Institute of Mexico. Afterwards he did postgraduate work at Cornell University. He then pursued graduate studies in the History and Theory of Architecture at the University of Essex where he received his Master of Arts in 1975 and Ph.D. in 1979. In 1987 he became a Canadian Citizen and a Quebec resident. In 1984, he won the Alice Davis Hitchcock Award for his book \"Architecture and the Crisis of Modern Science\". He has taught and lectured at various schools of architecture around the world and was director of the Carleton University School of Architecture from 1983 to 1986. Currently, he runs the History and Theory of Architecture program at the McGill University School of Architecture, where he is the Saidye Rosner Bronfman Professor in History and Theory of Architecture.\n\nDr. Pérez-Gómez is the author of numerous volumes of architectural scholarship.\"Polyphilo or The Dark Forest Revisited\" (MIT Press, 1992), an erotic narrative/theory of architecture that retells the love story of the famous fifteenth century novel/treatise \"Hypnerotomachia Poliphili\" in late twentieth-century terms, a text that has become the source of numerous projects and exhibitions (http://www.polyphilo.com). A Spanish version translated by the author was published as \"El Sueño de Polyfilo. El Origen Erótico del Significado Arquitectónico\" (Universidad Iberoamericana, 2012). He was co-editor of the well-known book series \"CHORA: Intervals in the Philosophy of Architecture\" vol. 1-7 (McGill-Queen's University Press) together with Stephen Parcell, which collects essays exploring fundamental questions concerning the practice of architecture through its history and theories. He co-authored a major book with Louise Pelletier, \"Architectural Representation and the Perspective Hinge\" (MIT Press, 1997), tracing the history and theory of modern European architectural representation, with special reference to the role of projection in architectural design. In \"Built Upon Love: Architectural Longing after Ethics and Aesthetics\" (MIT Press, 2006), Pérez-Gómez examines points of convergence between ethics and poetics in architectural history and philosophy, and draws important conclusions for contemporary practice. His most recent title, \"Attunement, Architectural Meaning after the Crisis of Modern Science\" (MIT Press, 2016) calls for an architecture that can enhance our human values and capacities, an architecture that is connected—attuned—to its location and its inhabitants. Architecture, Pérez-Gómez explains, operates as a communicative setting for societies; its beauty and its meaning lie in its connection to human health and self-understanding.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45534", "title": "Aldo Rossi", "text": "Aldo Rossi\n\nAldo Rossi (3 May 1931 – 4 September 1997) was an Italian architect and designer who achieved international recognition in four distinct areas: architectural theory, drawing and design and also product design.\n\nHe was the first Italian to receive the Pritzker Prize for architecture.\n\nHe was born in Milan, Italy. After early education by the Somascan Religious Order and then at in Lecco, in 1949 he went to the school of architecture at the Polytechnic University of Milan. His thesis advisor was and he graduated in 1959.\n\nIn 1955 he had started writing for, and from 1959 was one of the editors of, the architectural magazine Casabella-Continuità, with editor in chief Ernesto Nathan Rogers. Rossi left in 1964, when the chief editorship went to Gian Antonio Bernasconi. Rossi went on to work for and Il_contemporaneo, making him one of the most active participants in the fervent cultural debate of the time.\n\nHis early articles cover architects such as Alessandro Antonelli, , Auguste Perret and Emil Kaufmann and much of this material became part of his second book, \"Scritti scelti sull'architettura e la città 1956-1972\" (\"Selected writings on architecture and the city from 1956 to 1972\"). He married the Swiss actress Sonia Gessner, who introduced him to the world of film and theater. Culture and his family became central to his life. His son Fausto was active in movie-making both in front of and behind the camera and his daughter Vera was involved with theatre.\n\nHe began his professional career at the studio of Ignazio Gardella in 1956, moving on to the studio of Marco Zanuso. In 1963 also he began teaching, firstly as an assistant to (1963) at the school of urban planning in Arezzo, then to Carlo Aymonino at the Institute of Architecture in Venice. In 1965 he was appointed lecturer at the Polytechnic University of Milan and the following year he published \"The architecture of the city\" which soon became a classic of architectural literature.\n\nHis professional career, initially dedicated to architectural theory and small building work took a huge leap forward when Aymonino allowed Rossi to design part of the Monte Amiata complex in the Gallaratese quarter of Milan. In 1971 he won the design competition for the extension of the San Cataldo Cemetery in Modena, which made him internationally famous.\n\nAfter suspension from teaching in Italy in those politically troubled times, he moved to ETH Zurich, occupying the chair in architectural design from 1971 to 1975.\n\nIn 1973 he was director of the International Architecture Section at the , where he presented, among others, his student Arduino Cantafora. Rossi's design ideas for the exhibition are explained in the International Architecture Catalogue and in a 16mm documentary \"Ornament and crime\" directed by Luigi Durissi and produced along with Gianni Braghieri and Franco Raggi. In 1975, Rossi returned to the teaching profession in Italy, teaching architectural composition in Venice.\n\nIn 1979 he was made a member of the prestigious Academy of Saint Luke. Meanwhile, there was international interest in his skills. He taught at several universities in the United States, including Cooper Union in New York City and Cornell University in Ithaca (New York State). At Cornell he participated in the \"Institute for Architecture and Urban Studies\" joint venture with New York's Museum of Modern Art, travelling to China and Hong Kong and attending conferences in South America.\n\nIn 1981 he published his autobiography, \"A scientific autobiography\". In this work the author, \"in discrete disorder\", brings back memories, objects, places, forms, literature notes, quotes, and insights and tries to \"... go over things or impressions, describe, or look for ways to describe.\" In the same year he won first prize at the international competition for the design of an apartment block on the corner of Kochstraße and Wilhelmstraße in central Berlin.\n\nIn 1984 together with Ignazio Gardella and Fabio Reinhart, he won the competition for the renovation of the Teatro Carlo Felice in Genoa, which was not fully completed until 1991. In 1985 and 1986 Rossi was director of the 3rd (respectively 4th) International Architecture Exhibition at the Venice Biennale including further away display spaces such as Villa Farsetti in Santa Maria di Sala.\n\nIn 1987 he won two international competitions: one for a site at the Parc de la Villette in Paris, the other for the Deutsches Historisches Museum in Berlin, which was never brought to fruition. In 1989 he continued product design work for Unifor (now part of ) and Alessi. His espresso maker \"La Cupola\", designed for Alessi came out in 1988.\n\nIn 1990 he was awarded the Pritzker Prize. The city of Fukuoka in Japan honoured him for his work on the hotel complex \"The Palace\" and he won the 1991 Thomas Jefferson Medal in Public Architecture from the American Institute of Architects. These prestigious awards were followed by exhibitions at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris, the Beurs van Berlage in Amsterdam, the Berlinische Galerie in Berlin and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Ghent, Belgium.\n\nIn 1996 he became an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the following year he received their special cultural award in architecture and design. He died in Milan on 4 September 1997, following a car accident. Posthumously he received the \"Torre Guinigi\" prize for his contribution to urban studies and the \"Seaside Prize\" of the Seaside Institute, Florida, where he had built a detached family home in 1995.\n\nOn appeal his proposals won the 1999 competition for the restoration of the Teatro La Fenice, Venice and it reopened in 2004. In 1999 the Faculty of Architecture of the University of Bologna, based in Cesena, was named after him.\n\nHis earliest works of the 1960s were mostly theoretical and displayed a simultaneous influence of 1920s Italian modernism (\"see Giuseppe Terragni\"), classicist influences of Viennese architect Adolf Loos, and the reflections of the painter Giorgio de Chirico. A trip to the Soviet Union to study Stalinist architecture also left a marked impression.\n\nIn his writings Rossi criticized the lack of understanding of the city in current architectural practice. He argued that a city must be studied and valued as something constructed over time; of particular interest are urban artifacts that withstand the passage of time. Rossi held that the city remembers its past (our \"collective memory\"), and that we use that memory through monuments; that is, monuments give structure to the city. Inspired by the persistence of Europe's ancient cities, Rossi strove to create similar structures immune to obsolescence.\nHe became extremely influential in the late 1970s and 1980s as his body of built work expanded and for his theories promoted in his books \"The Architecture of the City\" (\"L'architettura della città\", 1966) and \"A Scientific Autobiography\" (\"Autobiografia scientifica\", 1981).The largest of Rossi's projects in terms of scale was the San Cataldo Cemetery, in Modena, Italy, which began in 1971 but is yet to be completed. Rossi referred to it as a \"city of the dead\".\n\nThe distinctive independence of his buildings is reflected in the micro-architectures of the products designed by Rossi. In the 1980s Rossi designed stainless steel cafetières and other products for Alessi, Pirelli, and others.\n\nFor the Venice Biennale in 1979 Rossi designed a floating \"Teatro del Mondo\" that seated 250 people. For the Venice Biennale in 1984, he designed a triumphal arch at the entrance to the exhibition site. In 2006 two pylons based on an original 1989 design by Aldo Rossi were erected in front of the Bonnefanten Museum in Maastricht by the Delft architectural firm Ufo Architecten.\n\nAldo Rossi won the prestigious Pritzker Prize for architecture in 1990. Ada Louise Huxtable, architectural critic and Pritzker juror, has described Rossi as \"a poet who happens to be an architect.\"\n\n\nIn addition to architecture, Rossi, created product designs, including:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58666629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58666629", "title": "American University of Cyprus", "text": "American University of Cyprus\n\nAmerican University of Cyprus is a private university in Nicosia, Cyprus, providing courses in English. The university is made up of 3 faculties. American University of Cyprus is a member of the European Council for Business Education, the International Universities Search & Rescue Council and the Cyprus Universities Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20924056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20924056", "title": "Aram Hur", "text": "Aram Hur\n\nAram Hur is a South Korean teacher, practicing humanist, educator, publisher, lecturer, and social entrepreneur.\n\nAram Hur was born in Miryang, South Korea on March 4, 1971, and grew up in Busan. She received her BA and MA from Pusan National University and has lectured on literature, philosophy, art, linguistics and educational studies.\n\nHur is the founder and chairperson of Indigo Book Company (인디고 서원) which is located in Busan, South Korea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30046514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046514", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Multan was established on 30 March 1968. It is located near Gol Bagh, Gulgasht Colony, Multan.\nIt is responsible to take all Matriculation (Secondary) and Intermediate (Higher Secondary) exams (F.A /F.Sc.) of Multan Division schools and colleges as well as all the private candidates.\n\nMultan board takes the examination from 9th class to 12th Class. Usually the Admissions are announced as follows:\nResults of these exams are announced as following schedule (Approximately +/- 2 days):\n\nAround 240,000 candidates appear for annual matric exam every year in BISE Multan and around 130,000 candidates appear for annual Intermediate exam every year. if we include the supply exams figures in it, we can say that every year the BISE Multan manage the exam process of around 400,000 candidates. And this figure is increasing around 10% yearly.\n\nJurisdiction of Multan Board includes Multan Division which includes following districts:-\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21484189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21484189", "title": "Business game", "text": "Business game\n\nBusiness game (also called business simulation game) refers to simulation games that are used as an educational tool for teaching business. Business games may be carried out for various business training such as: general management, finance, organizational behaviour, human resources, etc. Often, the term \"business simulation\" is used with the same meaning.\n\nA business game has been defined as \"a game with a business environment that can lead to one or both of the following results: the training of players in business skills (hard and/or soft) or the evaluation of players' performances (quantitatively and/or qualitatively)\".\n\nBusiness games are used as a teaching method in universities, and more particularly in business schools, but also for executive education.\n\nSimulation are considered to be an innovative learning method , and are often computer-based.\n\nComputer-supported business simulation originated from military war games and came into existence during the late 1950s . Business simulation games, including non-computer-based board games and experiential activities, have since been used as a learning tool for teaching management . It is regularly in use at Universities, and in particularly by major business schools. As an example, the University of Washington has been using business simulation game in classes since 1957 .\n\nThe INTOP tool was developed at the University of Chicago in 1963, and was employed for teaching in 160 institutions worldwide over the period 1963–1995. Its successor INTOPIA was first released in 1995, and it has been used by universities in over 55 countries around the world, including 18 in the U.S.\n\nBusiness games are also used within companies for management training and development .\n\n"}
{"id": "52505785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52505785", "title": "Carmelite Brewer Christie", "text": "Carmelite Brewer Christie\n\nCarmelite Brewer Christie was a Congregational missionary in Turkey from 1877 to 1920 and served as the acting president of the St. Paul's College, during World War I. She was the College's sole American caretaker, though her husband Thomas Davidson Christie was the named president. She wrote letters and kept diaries which are part of the Minnesota Historical Society Christie Collection and provide a first-hand account of the Armenian massacre of 1895, Ottoman Turkish politics in the pre- and post-World War I era, the Armenian Genocide of 1915 and its aftermath. During the 1909 Riots and unrest, she refused to abandon the school, students and refugees who had fled there, guarding up to 5,000 people under her protection and hoisting the American flag.\n\nSarah Carmelite Brewer, known as Carmelite, was born in Lee Center, Illinois on 25 April 1852 to Elizabeth (née Pratt) and Rev. James Brewer. On her father's side of the family, she was descended from Captain John Brewer, veteran of the French and Indian War and a relative of the Supreme Court Justice, David Josiah Brewer. Carmelite was a cousin of Rev. Josiah Brewer, father of Justice Brewer, who was an early missionary and school founder sent by the American Board to Greece and Turkey. He was one reason Thomas and Carmelite ended up in Turkey.\n\nHer father was a preacher who graduated from Williams College some 30 years after the Haystack Prayer Meeting which resulted in the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. After graduation he taught in schools in the South. He joined his brother Ira after riding from Montgomery, Alabama to Lee County in 1847. James was a farmer and a principal of the new academy in Lee Center in 1850. He was ordained in 1859. \n\nShe graduated in 1871 from the Rockford Seminary for Women, a progressive academy. Rockford was the sister college of Beloit College in Wisconsin. She taught school in Lee Center until she married a graduate of Beloit, Thomas Davidson Christie on 14 March 1872.\n\nCarmelite joined her new husband in Wisconsin, where he taught at Beloit College and the University of Wisconsin, while working on his master's degree, and she began their family with the births of their first two daughters, Elizabeth Norton. Thomas and his young family went to Andover Theological Seminary for his further studies. Their daughter Anna Carmelite was born in there in 1875. Daughter Elizabeth died of scarlet fever in 1876. Thomas graduated and was ordained as a minister the next year. Carmelite was appointed as a missionary by the American Board of Missions in Asiatic Turkey in 1877. Thomas, Carmelite and their young daughter Anna moved to Marash, Turkey that same year, where he taught at the Central Turkey Theological Seminary. In addition to preparing young men for college in the period between 1877 and 1893, she expanded their family to include: Emerson Brewer, Mary Phelps, Paul Theodore, Agnes Emily, and Jean Ogilvy.\n\nCarmelite and the children returned to the Beloit for the period from 1888 to 1890 for the children's education and then returned to Turkey.\nIn 1893 the family moved to Tarsus to take up a post at St. Paul's College. Carmelite by character and situation assumed non-traditional roles overseas. As part of his duties, Thomas left Turkey to raise money or went to surrounding mission stations to support them. In addition to her family responsibilities, she was involved in the activities of St. Paul's College and the education of women and a supporter of suffrage for unmarried women. After the 1895 massacre at Marash, Carmelite wrote letters describing the events which were published in American newspapers. She reported on deaths, woundings, damage to the schools in Marash and threats to the missionary workers. Her reports were personal, having spent fifteen years among those who were living through the crisis and in one letter, she reported that she and her husband had been warned regarding violence which might spread to Tarsus. By August, the rioting had reached them, though the Christies were not at the school when it was looted. In the face of the ongoing violence, the family fled to Mersina, and eventually Carmelite returned with the children to the United States between 1897 and 1898 for their safety and schooling.\n\nCarmelite's son-in-law Rev. Miner Rogers, Reverend Herbert Adams Gibbons and her husband went to the annual conference of Armenian ministers and expatriate missionaries in Adana, Turkey on 13 April 1909. While they were there Rogers and another missionary Henry Maurer, were killed by gunfire during the Adana massacre. The men were carrying water to put out a fire in order to protect a missionary run dispensary. Thomas Christie could not immediately return to Tarsus. During the week he was away, some of the rioters went to Tarsus. Locals joined them in setting the Tarsus Armenian quarter on fire. Through Carmelite's efforts, the school survived despite protecting around 5,000 refugees on the grounds of the College. When regular soldiers began to join in with the violence and the mob turned toward the campus, Carmelite raised an American flag and refused the evacuation request of the consular saying, \"I prefer to die with my students and the Armenian people than to hand them over to Turks and save myself.\" The campus was surrounded by the mob, which replaced the water in the fire extinguishing system with kerosene to torch the school and refugees, when word to cease the hostilities was received from the Young Turks in Constantinople.\n\nThomas and Gibbons returned to tell of Rogers' death to their own wives, and break the news to his daughter Mary and her infant child. Carmelite nursed and comforted the injured and dying, provided food for them and she and Helen Gibbons sewed clothes for infants. For two weeks after the violence, Carmelite was called upon to give constant care to the sick, the children of the refugees and orphans. However, within months of the events, the school was back in operation. Carmelite gave a glowing report of their progress under her leadership as acting president while her husband was back in the states.\n\nThe Christies were at St. Paul's when the Ottoman Empire joined the Central Powers at the start of WWI. The Tehcir (forced displacement) Law and another law which allowed expropriation and confiscation of Armenian property was passed by the Ottoman Parliament in May 1915. Teachers and students at St. Paul's were ordered to leave Tarsus for Syria. Thomas traveled in June 1915 to Constantinople to request that the government not deport teachers or students. He was not allowed to return to Tarsus for the duration of the conflict. A short time later, Carmelite arranged for her family and future son-in-law to leave for America but she stayed.\nDuring the War, she kept the College open, distributed relief supplies and chronicled events in a summary she sent to the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions after the war ended. In her summary, Carmelite chronicles how the Turkish Army requested use of their halls for regimental soldiers and officers, for use a hospital during the cholera and typhus epidemic in 1915, and as a quarters to house English prisoners of war. Carmelite negotiated with the authorities, making small concessions during the war which allowed them to keep operating the college. In addition, she provided aid to refugees, writing, \"...100,000 exiles were said to have passed Tarsus en route for regions beyond. Of these, we helped as many as we could with money, food and clothing where it was possible by protecting them. Some of these we hid, for others we found work that counted as Government service, and so saved them from being deported further.\"\n\nCarmelite made regular visits to families, local officials and the military (including several audiences with Enver Pasha). Her diary chronicled the stream of Armenians from all over Turkey that passed through Tarsus. Most were on foot and were being directed to Syria. She also noted the wounded coming back from the front and the conditions which ethnic Turks and Armenians suffered during the war. Thomas returned to briefly to Tarsus in 1919, not a well man.\n\nCarmelite made entries in a diary from 1868 to 1931. About 20 of these volumes, along with correspondence, address books and memorandums are in the Minnesota Historical Society's archives. They have been used by historians and researchers. Her entries during her time at Tarsus are controversial in the context of interpretation events surround Turkish, Armenian, Kurdish, Greek, various political and religious groups. \n\nRev. Richard Walker Rockwell supplied Arnold Toynbee with what was reported to be a transcribed copy of Mrs. Christie's diary, with many peoples names omitted or noted with initials. Toynbee edited the \"Blue Book\" in 1916 and included some entries of Mrs. Christie. At the time, Turkish critics said the Blue Book was an exaggeration, events fabricated by missionaries and was clearly a piece of WWI British propaganda. They pointed out that Toynbee pressured Rev. Rockwell for names, so as editor he could assure the reader these people existed. Toynbee did not get the names but included Mrs. Christie's entries.\n\nIn general, her diaries document her activities and her opinions about events around her, including her family.\n\nIn 1919, Carmelite and Thomas returned to the United States, where briefly Thomas became pastor at the Union Church in Palm Springs, California. After the couple's daughter Agnes, who had been suffering from ill health, committed suicide in December 1919, the couple's youngest daughter, Jean, went to Tarsus to help her mother prepare to return to the United States. They made their home in Eagle Rock California among a large community of Armenians. Thomas died in 1921. In the last years of her life, Carmelite lived in Pasadena with her daughter Jean, who taught at Occidental College.\n\nCarmelite died on October 17, 1931, in Pasadena. She and Thomas are buried in Newton Cemetery (Massachusetts) in the American Missionary Board plot.\n\nThe Minnesota Historical Society was given a trunk full of Christie family letters in 1965. The Christie family was asked to give or make copies of other letters and diaries for a permanent Christie collection. In 2016, the collection occupies over 20 cubic feet for Thomas & his family and about the same for his father and siblings. This collection includes Carmelite's continuous diary she kept from 1865 to 1931, giving important historical, first person accounts of the turbulent times of Turkey's history at the turn of the twentieth century through the First World War.\n\nFive of Carmelite's six surviving children were born in Turkey. The more notable have a common thread that echoed Carmelite's own life of social service and education.\n\nAnna Carmelite Christie (1875-1910) was born in Wisconsin and traveled to Turkey with her parents when they moved there. She had poor health and though schooled in both Europe and the United States, she spent much of her life living in the U.S. quietly pursuing musical interests and performing charitable works.\n\nEmerson Brewer Christie (1878-1967) was a noted linguist and ethnologist. He graduated from Yale, taught at St. Paul's College and then in the Philippines. He also taught at University of Michigan and Temple University. He was Chief of the US State Department's Bureau of Translation from 1928-1944.\n\nMary Phelps Christie (1881-1975) was born in and spent a great deal of her life in Turkey. She attended Bryn Mawr College and studied at the Hartford Female Seminary, graduating in 1908. Mary married Daniel Miner Rogers (1882-1909) and they joined her parents in Tarsus. After the death of Rogers, she returned with their child to the United States. In 1911 she returned to Tarsus to teach. She met her second husband William Nute and they married in Tarsus. Mary and her child returned to the States so William could complete his medical training. They returned to Turkey where Mary taught and William ran rural medical clinics, until their retirement, when she returned to California.\n\nPaul Theodore Christie (1883-1959) was born and raised in Turkey. As his siblings, he was sent away as a teenager for further education. Paul attended schools in Greece, Switzerland and Germany. He graduated from Hotchkiss School in 1903 and Harvard University in 1907. He was a French teacher and athletic coach at St. Georges School until World War II. He retired and during the war worked at a Grumman airplane factory as a riveter in California. He continued to teach swimming until he died.\n\nAgnes Emily Christie (1887-1919) attended schools in Europe and the United States, though her education was interrupted because of poor health at various times. Trained as a dental hygienist, she worked in that field until she became depressed and committed suicide.\n\nJean Ogilvie Christie (1891-1984) graduated from Wellesley College in 1915. She returned to Turkey and taught in Constantinople. Jean was forced to stop teaching there in 1917 and worked with the YMCA in France. Jean helped her mother return to the United States and settle in California in 1920. She was a teacher at Occidental College and at the University of California, Berkeley. She was married to Eugene V. Lien.\n\n"}
{"id": "506639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506639", "title": "Compendium", "text": "Compendium\n\nA compendium (plural: compendia) is a concise compilation of a body of knowledge. A compendium may summarize a larger work. In most cases the body of knowledge will concern a specific field of human interest or endeavour (for example: hydrogeology, logology, ichthyology, phytosociology or myrmecology), while a general encyclopedia can be referred to as a \"compendium of all human knowledge\".\n\nThe word compendium arrives from the Latin word \"compenso\", meaning \"to weigh together or balance\". The 21st century has seen the rise of democratized, online compendia in various fields.\nAn example would be the \"Compendium of the Catechism of the Catholic Church\", a concise 598-question-and-answer book which summarises the teachings of the Catholic Faith and Morals.\n\nThe Bible is another example of a compendium—a group of many writings of the prophets and apostles over a period of time, whose books are put together to form the Old Testament and the New Testament.\n\nSome well known literary figures have written their own compendium. An example would be Alexandre Dumas, author of The Three Musketeers, and an enthusiastic gourmand. His compendium on food titled \"From Absinthe to Zest\" serves as an alphabet for food lovers.\n\nThe bestiary, popular in the Middle Ages, is another example of a compendium. Bestiaries cataloged animals and facts about natural history and were particularly popular in England and France around the 12th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3085664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3085664", "title": "Curriculum 2000", "text": "Curriculum 2000\n\nCurriculum 2000 was a reform of A Level examinations in the United Kingdom. It was introduced in September 2000 (with the first AS-Level examinations held in Summer 2001 and A2 examinations the following year). An A Level under this reform consists of four or six units studied over two years. Normally, two or three units are assessed at the end of the first year, and make up a stand-alone Advanced Subsidiary (AS Level) qualification. Another two or three modules are assessed at the end of the second year, which make up the A2 Level. A2 units do not form a qualification in their own right; the satisfactory completion of the AS and A2 units in the same subject is required to constitute a complete A Level qualification.\n\nDue to the modular structure, units could be taken in January and June of the year, though January exams were abolished after the January 2013 exam session. To begin with each unit could only be retaken once, but this limit was later removed. Some schools choose to conduct all AS and A2 examinations at the end of the first or second years. In the former case, this means students complete the A-level in one year, which is possible for more academically able students. In the latter case, students do not have the opportunity to resit any units and have a more stressful workload at the end of their second year, although by reducing the amount of time taken for exam leave and conducting examinations, more time is available to study the subject in more depth.\n\nUnits are assessed by exam papers marked by national organisations and internally assessed coursework. Four organisations set and mark exam papers in England and Wales: Assessment and Qualifications Alliance (AQA), Edexcel, Oxford, Cambridge and RSA Examinations (OCR) and the Welsh Joint Education Committee (WJEC). The Council for the Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment (CCEA) sets them in Northern Ireland. International exams managed by Cambridge International Examinations (CIE) also have A-levels in a variety of subjects.\n\nThe reaction to the new style and structure of qualifications was mixed; whilst many schools and colleges welcomed the increased flexibility and the nature of the modules, the Key Skills courses were increasingly targeted as a failure. Many students were exempt from taking these courses as they had the relevant GCSEs, leaving some classes empty. General apathy towards the courses from UCAS and most universities meant that Key Skills was dropped from some LEAs requirements by the end of 2003.\n\nSome have criticised the modular system for nurturing a 'resit culture' due to the 'generous' resit system, and causing perceived 'grade inflation' where the proportion of candidates achieving higher grades increases, thus eroding the value of those grades. Additionally, while the most academically able candidates benefited from completing some of the subject content early, some felt ill-prepared to take half of their A level exams only a year after taking GCSE exams, not having a second year to improve their grades. Michael Gove, who implemented the A level changes which succeeded Curriculum 2000 has described the modular system as an exam 'treadmill' due to the frequency of examinations.\n\nFor first teaching from 2015 through 2018 it was succeeded by a new curriculum (first assessment 2017), which reversed most changes brought in by Curriculum 2000 (reverting to linear qualifications where all exams are taken at the end of each course), though kept AS Levels as standalone qualifications which still encompass the first year of the full A level content. Most traditional subjects were reformed in 2015, followed by more in successive years. The changes will be complete by 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "26454601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26454601", "title": "Debby Herbenick", "text": "Debby Herbenick\n\nDebby Herbenick is an American author, research scientist, sex educator, sex advice columnist, children's book author, blogger, television personality, professor, and human sexuality expert in the media. She is also the 2016 - 2018 president of the American Association of Sexuality Educators, Counselors, and Therapists (AASECT). Herbenick is also an AASECT-certified sexuality educator.\n\nHerbenick has published more than 100 scientific manuscripts in peer-reviewed journals and is one of the leading experts in the study of sexual behavior in the United States. She is also an expert on research related to sexuality in the context of pregnancy/postpartum period, as well as studies of vulvar and vaginal health, genital self-image, women's and men's sexual behavior, women's sexuality, sexual pleasure and enhancement, exercise-induced orgasm - also known as the coregasm, condoms, lubricants, arousal creams, and sexual enhancement products. Herbenick has spoken on these and other sexuality and relationship topics at a number of colleges, universities, and national and international conferences. She also regularly teaches human sexuality classes, among other courses, at Indiana University.\n\nHerbenick has authored or co-authored several books including \"Because It Feels Good: A Woman’s Guide to Sexual Pleasure and Satisfaction\", \"The I Love You More Book\" (a book about love for children and grown ups), \"Read My Lips: A Complete Guide to the Vagina and Vulva\", \"Great in Bed\", and \"Sex Made Easy: Your Awkward Questions Answered for Better, Smarter, Safer Sex\". Herbenick also authored \"The Coregasm Workout\" .\n\nHerbenick is one of the lead scientists associated with the 2009 National Survey of Sexual Health and Behavior and its subsequent waves of data collection from 2012 forward. She is also the Director of the Center for Sexual Health Promotion in the School of Public Health-Bloomington at Indiana University in Bloomington. An AASECT-certified sexuality educator, Dr. Herbenick also writes and hosts the audio podcasts for \"Kinsey Confidential\" for the Kinsey Institute.>\n\nThe blog MySexProfessor.com was run by Dr. Herbenick from 2007 to 2014. She is also the founder of the Bloomington Sex Salon, an event series in Bloomington, Indiana, and the Make Sex Normal project, which she launched with a highly viewed TEDx talk in 2013.\n\nFrom 2005 through 2012, Herbenick wrote a weekly sex advice column for \"Time Out Chicago\" and, for more than a decade (starting in 2003), she wrote sex columns and blogs for Men's Health magazine. Also, Herbenick appeared as an expert in relationships and human sexuality on \"The Today Show\", Katie Couric's television show \"Katie\", on various PBS specials, on \"The Tyra Banks Show\" and on \"The Doctors\", and on one occasion taught about the vulva by using a vulva puppet on Tyra. This clip resulted in millions of views on YouTube and also aired on \"The Soup\" and \"Best Week Ever\". Dr. Herbenick, her colleague, and their research have also been profiled on an episode of the Discovery Channel's Curiosity (TV series). In 2013, Dr. Herbenick also launched a successful Kickstarter project to create a poster and postcard series called \"What do you like about your vagina and vulva?\" \n\n"}
{"id": "6509218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6509218", "title": "Dmitri Bruns", "text": "Dmitri Bruns\n\nDmitri Bruns (born 11 January 1929), is an Estonian architect and architecture theorist.\n\nBruns was born in Riga, Latvia. From 1959 he was the secretary of the Union of architects of Estonian SSR. In 1960–1980 Bruns served as the chief architect of Tallinn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22299559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22299559", "title": "DrawBot", "text": "DrawBot\n\nDrawBot is an open source application for OS X that allows users to write simple Python scripts to generate two-dimensional graphics. The builtin graphics primitives support rectangles, ovals, (bezier) paths, polygons, text objects and transparency.\n\nDrawBot primarily serves an educational purpose, used as a tool to teach the basics of programming. Students get graphical feedback for positive reinforcement via coding. They learn programming structures such as variables, conditional statements, functions. DrawBot is used by the Royal Academy.\n\nDrawBot is written in Python, with a fully self-sufficient binary.\n\n"}
{"id": "581052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581052", "title": "Drill instructor", "text": "Drill instructor\n\nA drill instructor is a non-commissioned officer in the armed forces or police forces with specific duties that vary by country. For example, in the United States armed forces, they are assigned the duty of training new recruits entering the military.\n\nDrill instructors within the U.S. armed forces have different titles in each branch of service. In the United States Air Force, they are known as \"Military Training Instructors\", or MTIs. The United States Navy uses Marine Corps drill instructors at their Officer Candidate School, but only Chief Petty Officers and Petty Officers (1st or 2nd Class) called \"Recruit Division Commanders\", or RDCs at their recruit training. Within the United States Army, drill instructors are given the title of \"Drill Sergeant\". The United States Coast Guard gives the title of \"Company Commander\" to their drill instructors. The United States Marine Corps is the only branch of the U.S. armed forces where drill instructors are titled as \"drill instructors\",although the Marines were the first to call them Drill Sergeants but in 1971 changed to instructors. Drill instructors are referred to as \"sir\" or \"ma'am\" by recruits within the USAF, USMC, and USCG (for the first few weeks of basic training, until recruits are instructed to refer to their company commanders by their proper rank). Within the USN, recruits must refer to their RDCs by their proper ranks. Recruits in the United States Army must refer to their drill sergeants as such: \"drill sergeant\".\n\nThe instruction and indoctrination given by the drill instructors of the various U.S. military branches includes instruction in customs and practices of military life, physical fitness, instruction in the proper execution of military drill, instilling discipline and willingness to immediately obey all lawful orders given by superiors, and oftentimes, basic armed and unarmed combat training.\n\nIn the Australian Army, the staff responsible for training recruits are known as Recruit Instructors. They teach recruits discipline, fieldcraft, marksmanship, service knowledge and drill.\n\nEach recruit platoon is commanded by Recruit Instructors usually consisting of a Lieutenant, a Sergeant and up to four instructors of the Corporal or Bombardier rank. A Recruit Instructor can be identified by a 1st Recruit Training Battalion colour patch on his or her slouch hat and a small Recruit Instructor badge worn on the right breast pocket, if the position has been held long enough.\n\nMembers from all Corps in the Army are eligible to become Recruit Instructors, including females. Experience as a Recruit Instructor is often a prerequisite to senior non-commissioned appointments in the military.\n\nIn the Royal Australian Navy, there are Instructors at HMAS Cerberus, where the Recruit School course is held, and HMAS Creswell, where the NEOC (New Entry Officer Course) is held, as well as at ADFA.\n\nEach division is made up of one of the following:\n\nIn the Australian Federal Police, Drill Instructors are trained and accredited by the Recognition and Ceremonial team. Each accredited Drill Instructor wears an AFP pin with the wording \"DI\" positioned 5mm above their name plate or citations. Drill Instructors are also issued with a black coloured Hellweg brand leather basket weave Sam Browne belt and strap. The AFP is the only police agency to formally train and accredit police drill instructors in Australia, with a number of New South Wales Police Force members attached to the NSW Police College holding that qualification.\n\nThe Australian Federal Police College at Barton has a non-commissioned officer of sergeant rank holding the position of College Sergeant. The College Sergeant carries a black pace stick as a badge of office at ceremonial functions and a swagger stick during normal duties.\n\nThe New South Wales Police Force has a Drill Sergeant and a Drill Constable attached to the NSW Police College at Goulburn. Drill staff are responsible for training recruits in drill. These personnel wear a blue cord to signify being a protocol officer. The Senior Protocol Officer (formally known as Protocol and Discipline Officer) which carries the rank of Senior Sergeant is responsible for the coordination of the final week of drill, known as Attestation Week and holds the position of Parade Sergeant at all Attestation Parades. The Senior Protocol officer is responsible for dress, bearing and discipline and also is the guardian of NSWPF history, customs, traditions and symbols at the NSW Police College. The Senior Protocol Officer carries a black pace stick with silver fittings and wears a black coloured Hellweg Brand Sam Browne belt with strap as a badge of office.\n\nThe Western Australian Police Force has a Drill Sergeant of the rank of sergeant who trains recruits in drill, discipline and other matters. He is also the recruit training manager responsible for overseeing the recruits training, ceremonial graduations, police funerals and other events. He meets regularly with academy executive and is responsible for removing recruits who fail parts of the course. The sergeant carries a pace stick as a badge of office during parades.\n\nIn the British Army, the appointment of Drill Sergeant (DSgt) is limited to the five Foot Guards regiments, the Honourable Artillery Company (HAC), Infantry Training Centre Catterick, London District, and the All-Arms Drill Wing (part of the Army School of Ceremonial, Catterick). Drill Sergeants hold the rank of Warrant Officer Class 2. However, any senior NCO conducting drill can be colloquially referred to as a \"drill sergeant\".\n\nThere are two Drill Sergeants per battalion (one in the HAC) and they have specific responsibilities for all duties, public or battalion (royal duties, barrack duties etc.). They support the Garrison Sergeant Major (GSM) or Regimental Sergeant Major (RSM) in the formation, practice and execution of these duties, typically running the duties roster, supervising rehearsals, and undertaking the guard mounts, both royal and barrack. They also deputise for the RSM in disciplinary matters.\n\nThe London District Drill Sergeant supports the GSM in the supervision of Trooping the Colour, the State Opening of Parliament, Beating the Retreat and any state visits. He also has responsibility under the GSM for the definition of British Army foot and arms drill.\n\nThey can be distinguished from other WO2s by their dress. They have the right to wear Sam Browne belts when in No.2 dress and carry swords (never drawn) on ceremonial duties.\n\nThey are the third most senior Warrant Officers within a regimental structure, after the RSM and the Regimental Quartermaster Sergeant (RQMS). The HAC Drill Sergeant is thus the second most senior Territorial Army soldier in the regiment.\n\nDrill instructors are held responsible for the welfare, behavior, and military education of the recruits assigned to them on a 24-hour basis throughout the period of initial training, of which the most well known is Basic Training or boot camp. Their responsibilities include areas such as military discipline, physical fitness, and weapons training. The title of Drill Instructor is a billet independent of rank, to be held by Non-Commissioned Officers who successfully complete the intense training program to earn that title.\n\nThe rank held by drill instructors varies by branch:\n\nThe arduous nature of drill instructor duty means that such assignments are among the most prestigious carried out by enlisted personnel. Those who become drill instructors are eligible for a variety of military awards, such as the Marine Drill Instructor Ribbon, and the Army's Drill Sergeant Identification Badge.\n\nIt may be taken offensively by U.S. Marine Corps Drill Instructors to be referred to as 'Drill Sergeants', which is strictly an Army term in the American military, just as Marines may take offense to being called \"soldiers\". This is considered to be a grievous insult if done intentionally. The only acceptable address of a drill instructor by a recruit is \"sir\", \"ma'am\" or \"(senior) drill instructor (Rank) (last name)\". At Officer Candidates School (OCS), candidates are instructed by Drill Instructors who have already served a tour at one of the Recruit Depots. Officer candidates address their instructors as \"Sergeant Instructor\" (and rank and last name), or \"Platoon Sergeant\" (and rank and last name). The OCS Platoon sergeant is comparable to the Senior Drill Instructor in an enlisted recruit platoon. In the initial phase of training, officer candidates are trained in almost the same manner, and by the same people, as enlisted Marines, with slight differences reflecting the difference between the responsibilities the candidates will have as second lieutenants and those the recruits will have as junior Marines.\n\nIn addition, Drill Instructors at either E-6 or E-7 also train naval officer candidates at the Navy's Officer Candidate School at Officer Training Command Newport, Rhode Island, a holdover from the days when they trained prospective naval aviators at the former Aviation Officer Candidate School (AOCS) at Naval Aviation Schools Command, Pensacola, FL. Class Drill Instructors train officer candidates alongside Class Chief Petty Officers who have experience training Navy recruits as Recruit Division Commanders (RDCs). Unlike Marine Corps recruits, Navy officer candidates must address Drill Instructors by their rank, \"Staff Sergeant\" or \"Gunnery Sergeant\".\n\nIn the U.S. Marine Corps, candidates for Drill Instructor school are both volunteers and designates. The Headquarters Marine Corps Special Duty Assignment Team creates a list known as the HSST List. This list has the names of Marines that have been slotted for the different B-Billets and Special Duty Assignments. Once a Marine's name comes up on this list, they must either serve the duty or prove that they are unfit for the assignment. The tour of duty is three years and demands the highest moral character and strength. It is the job of the Drill Instructor to pass these characteristics on to the future of the Corps. This duty is referred to as \"Making Marines\", and is one of the most important duties of a Marine's career. A drill instructor is directly involved in shaping the future of the United States Marine Corps. Marines report to either Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island in South Carolina or to Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego in California, where they are assigned to Drill Instructor School. Upon graduation, they are assigned to one of the Recruit Training Battalions. Female Marines may now serve on both depots as Drill Instructors. Since spring 2016, Female Drill Instructors have begun serving in limited capacity on board Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego. This change took place in the Spring of 2016. Service as a Drill Instructor is considered a Special Duty Assignment in the Marine Corps (or \"B\" billet), which is factored into consideration of a Marine's eligibility for promotion. A Marine assigned to DI School must have at least a rank of Sergeant (E-5), or have been selected for promotion to Sergeant.\nThe school requires DI School students to complete every task recruits are required to do. The typical training day begins around 4:00 a.m. (0400 military time) and ends around 7:30 p.m. (1930), many times with specific training evaluations and end-of-day cleanups that require even longer days. At the end of each day, DI School students have to practice effective time management in studying for exams, practicing drill, rehearsing the teaching of drill movements verbatim and preparing uniforms all while still making time for intense physical training. The school lasts approximately three months with four classes running throughout the year.\n\nPhysical training or \"PT\" as a unit is conducted at least three times a week, with each session lasting approximately two hours. In addition to warming up, stretching, and calisthenics, students complete the \"DI Playground\" a circuit course that focuses on enhancing upper body strength. Physical training also prepares the future Drill Instructors for the Marine Corps Physical Fitness Test which consists of pull-ups, abdominal crunches, and a 3-mile timed run. Since a drill instructor is often required to spend 20 hours a day or more on his or her feet and to move fast at all times, various running sessions are conducted to enhance speed and endurance. Students are led by their squad instructors in ability group runs based on speed, gradually increasing distance and speed throughout the course. Track workouts, formation runs, and fartlek runs are also a staple of the training. Drill and discipline are crucial parts of the Drill Instructor School curriculum.\n\nEvery student is continuously evaluated, corrected, and mentored, with special attention paid to the smallest of details, such as the placement of a finger within 1/4 inch of its required location along a trouser seam, angle of the weapon, and positioning of the student in relation to the unit. Required knowledge is constantly taught and evaluated in the form of written exams, practical applications, and inspections. Uniforms are inspected continually, with surprise inspections conducted randomly in addition to the scheduled inspections. The drill instructor is expected to convey the best possible Marine Corps image to recruits and to America and to conduct his/herself to the highest Marine Corps leadership and integrity standards as well as to impart these standards to every recruit they train. Drill Instructors take a pledge which consists of the following words: \"These recruits are entrusted to my care. I will train them to the best of my ability. I will develop them into smartly disciplined, physically fit, basically trained Marines, thoroughly indoctrinated in love of Corps and country. I will demand of them, and demonstrate by my own example, the highest standards of personal conduct, morality and professional skill.\"\nUpon completion of Drill Instructor School, Drill Instructors are assigned to Recruit Training Battalions as junior members (\"fourth hats\", \"third hats\", \"kill hats\", \"bobby\", or \"bulldogs\") of drill instructor teams. His or her job consists of constant corrections, dispensing punitive \"Incentive Training\" (IT), and keeping unremitting pressure on recruits to pay attention to details. He or she also teaches and reinforces academic knowledge to recruits. It is his or her duty to command the recruit platoon for initial drill evaluation, in which, in addition to the platoon receiving a score, the Drill Instructor is evaluated as well. These new drill instructors bear the burden of responsibility for breaking down a recruit's sense of self and selfishness, so that the more experienced drill instructors can focus the recruits on selflessness, obedience, and fraternity.\n\nAfter completing a few 13-week cycles, the drill instructor is moved up to the position of \"Experienced Drill Instructor\" (EDI), also called the \"heavy\", \"drill hat\" or \"J Hat\".\n\nThe next step in a drill instructor career is becoming a \"Senior Drill Instructor\". Senior Drill Instructors hold a respected position which is distinguished by the wearing of a black sword belt (or Sam Browne Belt, but without the shoulder strap) instead of a green duty belt. A Senior Drill Instructor is ultimately accountable for the training of the platoon and for the efficiency of his or her assistant Drill Instructors. Although Senior Drill Instructors are NCOs (Sergeants) or Staff NCOs, their position in the recruit training platoon is similar to that of a commissioned officer Platoon Commander in a line platoon. As such, they are further set apart from \"junior\" Drill Instructors.\n\nAfter completing a number of cycles, drill instructors are often assigned to Support Battalion duties outside of recruit-training platoons. Such assignments are referred to as quotas, and include jobs as academic instructors, administrative duties at Recruit Processing (Receiving Barracks, also known as Receiving Company at MCRD San Diego), martial arts instructors, Medical Rehabilitation Platoon (MRP), Physical Conditioning Platoon (PCP), Combat Water Survival Instructors, Field Training Instructors (a.k.a. Black Shirts) [MCRD Parris Island only], and Instructional Training Company Instructors (ITC DI) [MCRD San Diego only].\n\nSome drill instructors choose to do a second tour of duty on the drill field. These volunteers still report to Drill Instructor School, but are referred to as course challengers, and are only required to complete a short refresher course. Multiple tour drill instructors, based on rank and experience, are usually assigned as Senior Drill Instructors, Series Chief Drill Instructors (MCRD San Diego) or Series Gunnery Sergeants (MCRD Parris Island), DI school instructors, Company First Sergeants, or Battalion Sergeants Major.\n\nWhile in Drill Instructor status, both male and female DIs wear a World War I campaign hat with their service and utility uniforms.\n\nFor their successful service, Marine Drill Instructors are awarded the Drill Instructor Ribbon. This award is also given to other enlisted Marines and officers assigned to the recruit training environment, although these billets are recognized as being less directly involved in actually training recruits such as Series and Company Commander/ XO, Battalion Executive Officer, S-3, and Commander, and various levels of Sergeants Major at each Depot. At OCS, the ribbon is also given to Officer Candidate Company First Sergeants, Company Gunnery Sergeants, and Platoon Commanders.\n\nHistorically, the task of the Drill Sergeant has been intrinsic to good order and discipline and commands respect throughout the Army. Currently, soldiers of appropriate rank (usually Staff Sergeants and Sergeants First Class ) may volunteer or be centrally selected by U.S. Army Human Resources Command to attend Drill Sergeant School. Those centrally selected are known as \"DA Selected\" meaning Department of the Army selected. Drill Sergeant School is ten weeks long and consists of exactly the same activities as basic training; drill and ceremony, basic rifle marksmanship, obstacle/confidence courses, and field training exercises, training management, and leadership. Certain aspects of the Basic Leader Course are included. Drill Sergeant candidates are held to the highest standards while going through the school as preparation for their tours of duty. The Drill Sergeant candidates are treated with a great deal of professionalism and not like recruits. Upon graduation, male Drill Sergeants wear the World War I campaign hat (nicknamed the \"Brown Round\") and female Drill Sergeants wear the olive drab Australian bush cap.\n\nAn Army Drill Sergeant's normal tour of duty (called being \"on the trail\") is two years with a possible one-year extension. Drill Sergeants may be assigned to units that conduct Basic Combat Training (BCT), reception, or One-Station Unit Training (OSUT). BCT Drill Sergeants train approximately 11 cycles during their two-year tours. OSUT Drill Sergeants train recruits for an equivalent of BCT plus an additional number of weeks depending on the Military Occupational Specialty, so their average number of cycles is less than that of a BCT Drill Sergeant. The breaks between cycles are extremely short, creating an incredibly demanding environment for Drill Sergeants. It is not unusual for a cycle to graduate on a Thursday or Friday with new recruits arriving the following Monday or Tuesday. Following several years of regular noncomissioned officers filling platoon sergeant billets in Advanced Individual Training, the Army announced in early April 2018, that Drill Sergeants will return to AIT training.\n\nSenior Drill Sergeants are the most senior NCO in a given training platoon, and are ultimately responsible for Soldiers within or under their authority. The only NCO more senior to these individuals at the company level is the company's First Sergeant, the senior enlisted leader and advisor to the company commander.\n\nSuccessful completion of Drill Sergeant duty greatly enhances opportunities for promotion. Many of the U.S. Army's most senior noncommissioned officers are former Drill Sergeants.\n\nThe Army has had a difficult time recruiting Drill Sergeant volunteers due to recent changes in doctrine and policy, with a recent study by the Department of Defense noting that fewer than 30% of Drill Sergeant candidates are volunteers. Past Drill Sergeants enjoyed much autonomy and latitude with which to train recruits and were reputed hands-on disciplinarians. Currently, the Army's Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) has sought to shift this authority away and has moved closer to what is known as \"Schofield's Definition of Discipline.\" It is now a punishable offense to use demeaning or derogatory terms to refer to recruits or trainees, and terms such as \"warrior\" or \"Soldier\" are more preferable. Additionally, it is a serious offense to punish recruits or trainees with \"excessive\" physical exercise, now known as hazing. Due to this, and also in part to the second and third order effects of this policy on the operational force, many NCOs feel disenchanted with the prospect of life on the trail and feel that their leadership abilities are better suited elsewhere.\n\nThe United States Drill Sergeant Academy is located in Fort Jackson, South Carolina. This is where all Drill Sergeants go to complete their drill sergeant training. The Academy is led by the Commandant and Deputy Commandant of the Drill Sergeant Academy. The instructors, known as Drill Sergeant Leaders (DSL's) are previously trained, and experienced Drill Sergeants. DSL's are selected very carefully by a panel of current senior Drill Sergeant Leaders, along with the leadership from the Academy. DSL's are held to the same high Army standards that new incoming Drill Sergeants are assessed on and must remain at those standards while instructing at the Academy.\n\nIn the United States Navy, recruit training is conducted by Recruit Division Commanders (RDCs, formerly Company Commanders or CCs) at Recruit Training Command Great Lakes, located at Naval Station Great Lakes, in North Chicago, IL. RDCs are usually E-6 (Petty Officer First Class), but may be up to a Master Chief (E-9) and have at least six years time in service and above, who are volunteers that serve a three-year tour at RTC Great Lakes.\n\nAfter submitting an approved package containing an endorsement from a commanding officer, prospective RDCs attend RDC \"C\" School located at RTC Great Lakes and are identified by the blue aiguillettes (ropes) they wear on the left shoulder of either their service, dress, or working uniforms. RDC School students typically spend thirteen weeks learning about the duties they will perform as RDCs, including drill and ceremony, classroom instruction, and uniform and compartment maintenance. They undergo routine uniform inspections, where RDC school staff (experienced RDCs) meticulously check for any deficiencies in a student's uniform. In addition, RDC School students spend three days a week undergoing physical training. Because of the intense workout periods, some RDC students find themselves unprepared; however, they must be ready to keep up with the recruits, some of them who are much younger or more athletic than they are. According to RDC \"C\" School staff, PT is the number one reason why some students drop out of the course.\n\nTowards the end of RDC \"C\" School, RDC students shadow actual RDCs currently commanding a division. At the end of thirteen weeks, they receive their red ropes and badges which set them apart as RDCs. Following graduation and entering their first divisions, senior RDCs mentor these new junior RDCs, who then go on to gain experience with every new division (commonly referred to as a \"push\").\n\nIn the second year of their three-year tour, RDCs take a break from training divisions and perform other duties on base, including drill evaluations, practical training instruction, teaching classes at RDC \"C\" School, or Battle Stations 21.\n\nRDC duty is considered a highly prestigious one as it is associated with higher levels of accession into the higher petty officer rates, including Chief Petty Officer. RDC duty also allows Sailors an opportunity to earn the Master Training Specialist designator. At the end of the three-year tour, eligible RDCs receive the Recruit Training Service Ribbon, along with a choice of coast for their next duty stations.\n\nIn addition to training recruits at RTC Great Lakes, RDCs at E-7 (Chief Petty Officer) or above who have experience leading recruit divisions train students at Officer Training Command in Newport, Rhode Island, either training prospective naval officers at Officer Candidate School (OCS) as Class Chief Petty Officers, alongside Marine Corps Drill Instructors, or newly commissioned junior officers in the Navy's Staff Corps (i.e. JAG, Medical Corps, Nurse Corps, etc.) at the Officer Development School (ODS).\n\nAir Force MTIs are non-commissioned officers ranging from Staff Sergeant (E-5) through Master Sergeant (E-7). They are trained at the Military Training Instructor School at Lackland AFB in San Antonio, Texas. Course length has changed several times during the last decade, but generally includes a period of assignment to a senior instructor to observe training (called \"bird-dogging\"). MTIs initially conduct basic training at Lackland Air Force Base as part of the 737th Training Group, but a select few conduct military training at the Officer Training School at Maxwell AFB and at the Air Force Academy during basic cadet training.\n\nMTIs are commonly identified by the AF blue campaign hat. Their usual duty uniform is the Airman Battle Uniform (ABU), with Blues uniforms worn during certain drill practices, and the graduation ceremony. In the case of ABUs, sage green boots are worn per Dress and Appearance regulations. After completion of their MTI schooling, they are awarded the time-honored campaign hat. Upon receiving their certification as an instructor, they receive the Air Education and Training Command Instructor badge for wear on the right side of the blues uniform. The badge is not authorized for wear on the ABU. The MTI ribbon was awarded for completion of Instructor training until 4 September 2014. After this time, graduates will be awarded the Air Force Special Duty Ribbon, newly created and authorized on 1 Oct 2014.\n\nMTIs usually begin their tours as \"team members\" - junior partners of a two-person team. Experienced MTIs becomes \"team chiefs\" and often work a basic training flight alone when manning shortages occur (especially during summer). MTIs refer to direct recruit training as being \"on the street\". At the conclusion of a tour, some MTIs are offered the chance to work in essential support training roles in the basic training course. This includes the combat training portions of the course, classroom academic instruction, and the \"confidence\" obstacle course.\n\nMTIs who are rated in the top 10% of their ranks are awarded with a blue \"rope\" replacing the black leather hat strap on the campaign or bush hat. These master military training instructors often evaluate the trainees and MTI ranks during parades and retreat ceremonies. Special trainers of MTIs used to wear a black \"rope\" and MTIs certified and assigned to train officer candidates wear a bright silver \"rope\".\n\nUnlike the Army, the Air Force uses a different specialist to continue military training during advanced individual or technical training. Military training leaders (MTLs) wear a blue aiguillette on the left shoulder and act in the same capacity as Army drill sergeants during technical training. The aiguillette in various colors is worn by students to indicate leadership roles - green for student flight leaders, yellow for student squadron leaders, and red for squadron student commanders. A white aiguillette is worn by chapel guides, a white and blue rope denotes they are in the Drum and Bugle Corps, and a teal rope is worn by student counselors. At some technical training centers a black aiguillette is worn by members of student honor guards or drill teams.\n\nIn the U.S. Coast Guard, Company Commanders are usually E-5 to E-8 and are special duty volunteers. Candidates attend Company Commander School in Cape May, New Jersey, which is collocated with recruit basic training. Upon completion, candidates then go in front of a board for final approval. Upon becoming a Company Commander (CC), the Coast Guardsman earns the right to wear the Company Commander Badge.\n\nCoast Guard recruit companies average two or three CCs per, with the newer CCs serving as Assistants to the more experienced Lead CC.\n\nDuring recent years, Coast Guard Company Commanders have gone to the United States Coast Guard Academy in New London, CT to train outgoing third class cadets during a week-long evolution called \"100th Week\", in which they are once again treated as incoming fourth class cadets by the CCs. The rationale behind this is to remind these cadets of their experiences coming into the Academy, and to reinforce the mantra that they must do the things they will eventually demand of incoming plebes. Later in the week, CCs begin teaching the cadets lessons on leadership. The experience provides third class cadets with invaluable experience they will need in training the new incoming fourth class cadets during Plebe Summer.\n\nIn many military services, a Drill Instructors' creed has been created to succinctly state the beliefs that a Drill Instructor should follow.\n\nThe Drill Sergeant Creed of the United States Army is:\n\nThe Drill Instructor Creed of the United States Marine Corps is:\n\nThe Military Training Instructor Pledge:\n\nIn Basic Military Qualification, the course staff member that is teaching drill for a particular drill class is the \"drill instructor\" for that class.\n\nDrill instructors have a reputation as unforgiving taskmasters and they are often portrayed as such in popular culture.\n\nFilm and TV\n\nAmong the definitive fictional portrayals are:\n\nR. Lee Ermey\n\nThe late actor R. Lee Ermey served as a real life U.S. Marine drill instructor (1965-1967) and later played the role of D.I.s in the following productions:\n\nReality TV\n\nThese productions feature real-life Drill Instructors from law enforcement agencies around the world. \n\nLiterature\nVideo games\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29803921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29803921", "title": "Earth's Birthday Project", "text": "Earth's Birthday Project\n\n\nEarth’s Birthday Project is a U.S.-based 501(c)(3, educational non-profit organization.\n\nSince Earth’s Birthday Project’s founding in 1989, it is estimated that more than 15 million school children have participated in butterfly and sunflower activities, as well as rainforest and river conservation.\n\nIn the late 1980s, as the twentieth anniversary of Earth Day approached, Cliff Ross was teaching middle school in New York City. Ross, his wife Lisa Werenko and his brother Tom Ross had just published their first environmental children’s book, \"It Zwibble, the Star-touched Dinosaur\", through Scholastic. It seemed to them that Earth Day might be more effective if it could be a celebration; if it could become a day not only for activists but also for children. They thought, “Why not give the Earth a birthday party?”\n\nThey then invited children from across NYC to celebrate the first Earth’s Birthday on the Great Lawn of Central Park. With the help of teachers, donors and the Parks Commission, the children celebrated the 20th anniversary of Earth Day on April 20, 1990 and were joined by NYC Mayor Dinkins.\n\nThe first year’s events “launched” the Earth’s Birthday Project as a nonprofit organization. Several components of the first celebration have become hallmarks of Earth’s Birthday Project’s educational activities through the years:\nEarth Birthday Project still puts butterflies into the hands of children, through programs in schools and individually to families. The organization also promotes the teaching of environmental issues as part of school science curriculum.\n\nEarth’s Birthday Project provides teachers with live butterflies, ladybugs and sunflower seeds to capture children’s imaginations and to engage them in close observation of living things. Through corporate sponsorship, like International Paper and the Toyota U.S.A. Foundation, Earth's Birthday Project provides hands-on materials to classrooms for free. In northern New Mexico, the NM Public Education Department has sponsored elementary science initiatives with Earth's Birthday Project.\n\nBetween 1989 and 2009, students participating in coin drives, bottle collections and other simple fundraising activities have raised $6.25 million to purchase and protect more than 400,000 acres of rainforest and other endangered habitat in partnership with conservation organizations like The Nature Conservancy, Conservation International and Nature & Culture International.\n\nThere is concern about the environmental impact of butterfly releases, in particular the release of monarch butterflies at weddings. Underlying the arguments against butterfly releases is the idea that companies should not raise butterflies for any commercial purposes, including science education, butterfly pavilions, weddings and celebrations; butterflies should only be experienced in nature. Arguments include the potential spread of disease into wild populations, influence on the gene pool, introduction of species outside of their native range and cruelty to captive insects. Whether these concerns are overstated or if they need serious study is unclear. Concerning Earth’s Birthday Project specifically, the organization supplies painted lady butterfly caterpillars, which are native throughout North America, for educational purposes only. Observing the metamorphosis of a butterfly in approx. 21 days teaches children about insect life cycles which is included in the required curricula of many states. Butterfly releases by a classroom are small, 3-5 butterflies; if several classrooms participate, there may be 20-30 butterflies. In addition teachers and parents report that raising butterflies introduces children to caring for the natural world and leads easily to improving wildlife habitat at school and in the local community.\n\nPartners of the organization include World Land Trust, The Nature Conservancy, and African Wildlife Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "29084589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29084589", "title": "Esmeralda Athanasiu-Gardeev", "text": "Esmeralda Athanasiu-Gardeev\n\nEsmeralda Athanasiu-Gardeev (1834–1917) was a Romanian pianist and composer.\n\nAthanasiu-Gardeev was born in Galaţi, Moldavia, in 1834. She studied music in Bucharest and then piano and composition in Paris with Julius Schulhoff and composition in St. Petersburg with Anton Rubenstein. She married Vasile Hermaziu and then General Gardeev who introduced her to Russian aristocracy. After the Romanian War of Independence, she lived in Bucharest, teaching voice, lute and piano. She died in Bucharest in 1917.\n\nMany of Athanasiu-Gardeev's compositions were based on Romanian folklore. Selected works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "54609643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54609643", "title": "Fiske Guide to Colleges", "text": "Fiske Guide to Colleges\n\nThe Fiske Guide to Colleges is an American media company that publishes, \"inter alia\", rankings and analysis for over three hundred and twenty universities. Its evaluations include quotes from real students, as well as information that is not published on colleges' websites.\n"}
{"id": "528180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528180", "title": "Freeter", "text": "Freeter\n\nFreeters may also be described as \"underemployed\". These people do not start a career after high school or university, but instead earn money from low-skilled and low-paid jobs.\n\nThe word \"freeter\" or \"freeta\" was first used around 1987 or 1988 and is thought to be a portmanteau of the English word \"free\" (or perhaps \"freelance\") and the German word \"Arbeiter\" (\"labourer\"). \"Arubaito\" is a Japanese loanword from \"Arbeiter\", and perhaps from \"Arbeit\" (\"work\"). As German (along with English) was used in Japanese universities before World War II, especially for science and medicine, \"arubaito\" became common among students to describe part-time work for university students.\n\nAbout 10% of high school and university graduates could not find steady employment in the spring of 2000, and a full 50% of those who could find a job left within three years after employment. The employment situation is worse for the youngest freeters.\n\nFrom 2000–2009, the number of freeters increased rapidly. In 1982 there were an estimated 0.5 million freeters in Japan, 0.8 million in 1987, 1.01 million in 1992 and 1.5 million in 1997. The number for 2001 is 4.17 million freeters according to one estimate, and 2 million in 2002 according to another estimate. According to some estimates, there will be 10 million freeters in Japan by 2014. \n\nMany Japanese people worry about the future impact of freeters on society. If they work at all, freeters often work at convenience stores, supermarkets, fast food outlets, restaurants, and other low paying, low skill jobs. According to a survey by the Japan Institute of Labor in 2000, the average freeter works 4.9 days per week and earns ¥139,000 per month (ca. $1,300 U.S.). Two thirds of freeters have never had a regular, full-time job.\n\nThe rise of internet business has allowed some freeters to work from home and be self-employed. Some experts predict that Japan's aging population will create a labor shortage that will increase career options for freeters.\n\nThe Japan Institute of Labor classifies freeters into three groups: the \"\"moratorium\" type\" that wants to wait before starting a career, the \"\"dream pursuing\" type\", and the \"\"no alternative\" type\". \n\nMany freeters live for free with their parents as parasite singles. Parents in Japan usually do not force their offspring out of the house. Once the parents die, the children will have to pay for their housing themselves. Even if they inherit the house or apartment, they still have to bear the costs of ownership.\n\nJapanese housing is compact, and is too small for two families. If freeters want to marry they have to find their own housing, usually at their own expense. \n\nStarting a career becomes more difficult the longer somebody is a freeter, as Japanese companies prefer to hire new workers fresh out of high school or university. While the employment situation is changing, large traditional companies still see a new employee as a lifetime investment. They much prefer to hire a young person who offers a longer period of service, and who will be easier to mold.\n\nOften the only option left for freeters is to continue working at low income part-time jobs, making it difficult to establish their own household. Some join the many homeless in Japan.\n\nPart-time jobs usually do not include any health or retirement benefits. Freeters' low income makes payment of medical expenses onerous.\n\nThe biggest problem for freeters is that the Japanese pension system is based on the number of years a person has paid into the system. The freeter usually has little or no pension insurance or savings, which may force him or her to work beyond the usual retirement age. \n\nJapan faces the problem of an aging population. The pension system will be under increasing strain as the ratio of pensioners to workers increases.\n\nThe advantage of being a freeter is that one has more freedom of choice, and more time for hobbies, volunteering, and community service. If they are living with their parents, they can spend their entire income on themselves.\n\nFreeters lack the benefits of union membership, which would give them some legal protection against firing.\n\nWhile they are young, freeters commonly live with their parents and have disposable income that would otherwise go towards rent. Their spending helps the manufacturing sector of the Japanese economy.\n\nBy living in the same house as their parents and often not owning a car, freeters have a much lower impact on the natural environment than \"high consumption\" members of society owning cars.\n\nLarge numbers of workers trying to start careers in their thirties may have a significant impact on the current corporate culture of Japan. It may change hiring and employment practices, particularly since demographers predict a future labor shortage due to the nation's aging population.\n\nMany male freeters have difficulties marrying because of their low income. They may thus have children later in life, or not at all. This will further inflame the low birth rate in Japan and compound social and economic problems related to the aging population, such as underfunding of the Japanese pension system. As of today, freeters pay little or no money into the pension system. The situation could become even worse in the future as more people become freeters, the ratio of workers to pensioners decreases, and the current pension policies around the world stay the same.\n\nThe Japanese government has established a number of offices called \"Young Support Plaza\" to help young people find jobs. These offices offer basic training for job hunting: teaching young people how to write a résumé, and how to conduct themselves during interviews. The demand for their services has been fairly low so far.\n\n"}
{"id": "12995665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12995665", "title": "Friends of Mongolia", "text": "Friends of Mongolia\n\nFriends of Mongolia (FOM) is a US-registered, 501(c)(3) tax-exempt non-profit organization registered in Mongolia and the United States. Friends of Mongolia is organized and operated exclusively for charitable, educational, and developmental purposes. Friends of Mongolia exists to develop partnerships with the people of Mongolia in furtherance of cultural exchange and human development. It is affiliated with the National Peace Corps Association, but membership is open to anyone with an interest in Mongolia.\n\nFriends of Mongolia was established in 1999 by returned Peace Corps volunteers who had served in Mongolia.\n\nFriends of Mongolia's operations are overseen by a board of directors who are elected for three year terms and managed by officers (two Co-coordinators, Treasurer, Communications Coordinator, and Membership Coordinator) who are elected annually. A Mongolia Country Representative and Deputy Country Representative are appointed by the board to oversee activities in Mongolia.\n\nThe FOM Scholarship was established in 2006, with the aim of assisting young male students from rural communities with high academic potential and financial need to attend post-secondary institutions across Mongolia. The program specifically stipulated that all applicants be male and living outside of Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia's capital city. The reason for this unique requirement was what is referred to as \"Mongolia's reverse gender gap.\" Often rural males are left behind in education because of social and economic demands in the countryside. In fact, according to the National Statistics on Gender in Mongolia, in 2005 only 39% of students enrolled in institutions of higher education were male. Successful applicants were awarded one-year full tuition scholarships.\n\nIn 2006 FOM began working with Inland Northwest Community Foundation, UNICEF and the Mongolian Youth Development Foundation (MYDF) to help facilitate the distribution of the Matthew Girvin Scholarship Fund. This fund 'was created in memory of Matthew Girvin, a UNICEF program officer stationed in Mongolia who was killed in a helicopter crash in January 2001, to support highly qualified secondary school graduates from low-income families in the rural areas of Mongolia to study at some of the best state institutions of higher learning within Mongolia.\n\nThe Friends of Mongolia Community Development Grant program is inspired by the Small Project Assistance (SPA) grant familiar to all PCVs, and provides financing for small community-based projects in Mongolia and the United States that further education, cultural exchange, and community development between both countries. Community projects generally do not attract the kind of funding on offer from large multi-lateral or bi-lateral donors, and modest community-based programs struggle to find appropriate funding to support their program goals. The FOM Community Development Grant program is intended to address these issues. FOM Community Development Grants can be as little as a few hundred dollars and do not generally exceed $2,500. \n\nFOM Community Development Grants are community initiated and implemented. Each proposal should demonstrate community-based support for a project through a minimum 25% local in-kind contribution of labor and materials in the overall budget of the project. \n\nProposals are accepted on a rolling basis, and each proposal is reviewed by a committee made up of FOM Members using a standard scoring method. Final funding approval for proposals is made based on review committee recommendations and the availability of funds.\n\nThe Friends of Mongolia logo depicts a Mongolian \"ger\" or yurt accompanied by traditional Mongolian script which spells 'Friend'.\n\n"}
{"id": "47630126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47630126", "title": "House of Crafts (Hancavičy)", "text": "House of Crafts (Hancavičy)\n\nHancavičy Regional House of Crafts () — was established in 1997 to study, revive and develop folk crafts.\n\nHouse of Crafts works since 1997 and groups artisans of Hancavičy district who work in the field of traditional crafts. There are 15 types of traditional Belarusian crafts and 12 types of modern arts and crafts the House of Crafts works with.\n\n\n\nResearch work: expeditions around the district to gather materials about crafts and their current state. A list of artisans and tradition bearers who are still engaged in traditional crafts is kept. Exhibits for the collection of authentic examples of folk weaving, embroidery and other types of local crafts are collected.\n\nMethodical fund: the House of Crafts provides methodical and practical help to rural culture institutions in organization and conducting of workshops in arts and crafts, collects and classifies materials on the modern types of arts and crafts, informs leaders of study groups, cultural workers and all interested parties.\n\nTo popularize folk arts the House of Crafts organizes exhibitions of works of artisans who are engaged in weaving, embroidery, lace, wicker-works, woodworking, etc. Both personal exhibitions and thematic exhibitions devoted to certain crafts are organized. The House of Crafts together with local artisans participate in district, regional, republican and international festivals, contests, fairs and celebrations. The work of the House of Crafts is followed by medias.\n\nWeaving, embroidery and belt weaving groups work under the House of Crafts. Amateur club “Bahač” groups adult artisans. In 2011 youth amateur society “Ethnographer” was created.\n\nA rich collection of traditional ručnik and items of local clothes has been gathered in the House of Crafts since its foundation. The collection of woven ručnik numbers nearly 50 items. Collection of female shirts is the most precious one among the items of traditional clothes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18754396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18754396", "title": "IDHEAP", "text": "IDHEAP\n\nThe Swiss Graduate School of Public Administration (French: \"Institut des hautes études en administration publique\", IDHEAP) is a Swiss graduate school of public administration. In 2014, the independent foundation was integrated into the University of Lausanne.\n\nThe school teaches graduate and post-graduate courses for public sector executives and (more recently) students wishing to take up public service. It also provides professional training for members of administrative bodies. It receives support from the Swiss Confederation under the Swiss Federal Law on University Funding. IDHEAP is located on the campus of the University of Lausanne.\n\nBeyond its teaching activities, IDHEAP also carries out research and counselling missions regarding the public sector. IDHEAP has been designated as the leading institution of the Swiss Public Administration Network, which aims to foster cooperation between the universities of Bern, Lausanne and Lugano, to boost research works and doctoral studies in public administration.\n\nIDHEAP was created (under the form of a “Foundation for a graduate school in public administration”) by Enrico Bignami, former delegate of the Board of Directors of Nestlé and creator of IMEDE (now the International Institute for Management Development), who wished to establish a Swiss MBA for the public sector. The other founders were the canton of Vaud, the University of Lausanne, the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and the Association of Friends of IDHEAP.\n\n\nThe institute is accredited by the Swiss Confederation (via OAQ), and the MPA is accredited by the European Association for Public Administration Accreditation.\n\nThe programmes of the IDHEAP include:\n\nThe MPA program is a 90 ECTS executive, flexible length and multidisciplinary program (Master of Advanced Studies), designed for public sector managers or would-be managers. It is also open to anyone wishing to pursue a career in an organization whose activities involve working with the public sector.\n\nThe curriculum includes a foundation course (6 core modules of 6 days –one day a week during the academic year), 3 course options of 12 days, chosen among a list of 18 elective courses and an approximately 100 pages thesis covering an original and in-depth research project carried out from an interdisciplinary perspective and supervised by a professor at IDHEAP and an external expert.\n\nTeaching includes group works (both presential and online), simulations, case studies (which may require students to work on real mandates and counselling missions carried out by the Institute) and research works.\n\nThe IDHEAP courses are delivered in French (although an international Executive MPA will soon be offered in English). The two other working languages are German and English. Both a student's trimester’s work and the dissertation can be written in French, German, English or Italian.\n\nThe average age of a graduate is 37, with a 66/34 split of men/women. 80 percent of graduates already have a university degree, most of them in political sciences, arts, economics, and law.\n\nThe IDHEAP teaching and research units participate in research projects financed by the Swiss National Science Foundation and R&D financed by the Commission for Technology and Innovation or the European Union four-year Information Society Technologies framework programs. Some research receives support from programs such as the Swiss Virtual Campus, the Interreg fund (European Cross-border Cooperation) or COST – European Cooperation in the Field of Scientific and Technical Research. Part of the research work carried out at IDHEAP is financed by consulting or experts’ fees.\n\n33 research projects are currently under way at the school. Recent examples include:\n\nIDHEAP publishes a full list of research projects on its website, at http://www.idheap.ch/idheap.nsf/vwBaseDocuments/IdREx01?OpenDocument&lng=en.\n\nFive new research projects were awarded to IDHEAP in 2007 by the Swiss National Fund for Research. In 2007, three doctorates of Public Administration were awarded by the University of Lausanne on the recommendation of IDHEAP.\n\nAlso in 2007, the university's Prof. Giuliano Bonoli was awarded the Latsis prize by the Swiss National Research Fund for his comparative research works on social policies.\n\nIDHEAP carried out 40 mandates in 2007: these were benchmarking missions, fusion of small towns and administrations, fiscal optimization, efficiency evaluations, organizational audit, satisfaction surveys, marketing audit, and organizational reengineering. Among the main clients, were the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, the Swiss Parliament, the Swiss Conference of Universities, the Swiss Federal Office of Culture, the Swiss Federal Office for Migration, the Swiss Federal Office of Social Insurance, the Swiss Federal Office for Professional Education and Technology, the Swiss states of Bern, Fribourg, Neuchâtel, Valais, Vaud, the cities of Berne, Geneva, Lausanne, and Neuchâtel, The Institute for Research and Debate on Governance, The Lausanne Olympic Capital association and BEDAG SA.\n\nIDHEAP has exchange and partnership agreements with the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18744851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18744851", "title": "Kleine Schriften", "text": "Kleine Schriften\n\nThe title is usually reserved for the collected works of a scholar who wrote primarily in German or whose first language was German. The collection of a scholar who worked or taught internationally will often contain essays in more than one language; the multi-volume \"\" of Walter Burkert, for instance, includes work in German, English, and French. In the case of expatriates, articles in the host language may outnumber those in German. This is particularly true of German philologists who emigrated in the 1930s, many of whom published much of their research in English or French; Friedrich Solmsen's three-volume \"Kleine Schriften\", in which English articles outnumber German, is an example.\n\n' may also appear as an explanatory subtitle; for example, ', a collection of papers on the extinct Gothic language by Ernst A. Ebbinghaus.\n\n"}
{"id": "15808345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15808345", "title": "List of state achievement tests in the United States", "text": "List of state achievement tests in the United States\n\nState achievement tests in the United States are standardized tests required in American public schools in order for the schools to receive federal funding, according to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, in US Public Law 107-110, and the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001.\n\nThe following standardized tests are designed and/or administered by state education agencies and/or local school districts in order to measure academic achievement across multiple grade levels in elementary, middle and senior high school, as well as for high school graduation examinations to measure proficiency for high school graduation. Nebraska is the only state that does not have a standardized test.\n\nIn addition to the following list some states administer other required examinations. They include Nevada, which administers several tests as part of the Nevada Proficiency Examination Program. They include the High School Proficiency Examination for Reading and Mathematics; the Iowa Test of Basic Skills; Iowa Tests of Educational Development; Criterion-referenced tests in Reading, Mathematics, and Science; Language Proficiency Assessment; Nevada Alternate Scales of Academic Achievement; and National Assessment of Educational Progress. The Prairie State Achievement Exam is used in Illinois, along with the Illinois State Achievement Test. Alabama requires the Stanford Achievement Test Series; and in Texas, the Texas Higher Education Assessment. That state has discontinued its usage of the Texas Assessment of Academic Skills. Since the 2007–08 school year, Kentucky has required that all students at public high schools take the ACT in their junior year.\n\n"}
{"id": "56142912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56142912", "title": "Lúrio University", "text": "Lúrio University\n\nLúrio University (Portuguese: \"Universidade Lúrio\"), also known as UniLúrio, is a public university in Nampula Province, Mozambique. Established by decree on 26 December 2006, the university has since grown to comprise seven faculties. Lúrio offers degree programs in 21 disciplines, enrolling 1,430 total students, including both undergraduate and postgraduate students. Besides its main campus in Nampula, the university operates campuses in Pemba, Cabo Delgado Province, and Niassa Province. The university is named for the Lúrio River in northeastern Mozambique.\n\nLúrio University was established by decree No. 50/2006 of the Council of Ministers on 26 December 2006, published in the \"Boletim da República\", and officially inaugurated on 29 June 2007 by President Armando Guebuza. Education Minister Aires Ali, among others, attended the inauguration. In 2007, the university rectory was organized in Nampula, at first occupying facilities provided by the Museum of Ethnology of Mozambique. This made it the first public university in the country headquartered outside of the capital, Maputo. On 21 August 2007 the university council held its first session, defining its vision, mission, structure, and a suitable acronym. The Latin \"Scientia, Cretum, Fides\" (\"Science, Development, Commitment\") was chosen as the motto, and UniLúrio was selected as an acronym. The university logo was also chosen, selected from various designs put forward through a contest promoted by Eduardo Mondlane University's Faculty of Architecture and Physical Planning.\n\nThe university opened the Faculty of Health Sciences to students in 2007. The university started out with 20 instructors, 254 students, and three courses, medicine, dental medicine, and pharmacy. From the start, the university planned to eventually expand to three campuses. These goals came to fruition in 2008 and 2009, when satellite campuses were opened in Pemba, Cabo Delgado Province and Sanga, Niassa Province, respectively. The Pemba campus opened in temporary quarters in August 2008, and later moved onto a 12-hectare permanent campus. At the Pemba campus' opening, the Minister of Education said that Lúrio University \"has positively surprised us, because without much uproar it is producing results.\"\n\nBy 2013, the university had 192 professors and 1,430 students. That year, the university reported it was planning to construct a 70-bed teaching hospital, and potentially an eye-hospital with Indian assistance. At that point, the university was using the Central Hospital of Nampula as its training hospital. During the rectorship of Jorge Ferrão, the university acquired significant debt. \n\n\nLúrio University comprises six faculties. The Faculty of Health Sciences offers degrees in medicine, dental medicine, pharmacy, nutrition, optometry, and nursing. The Faculty of Agrarian Sciences provides engineering degrees with specialties in forestry, rural development, and zootechnics. The Faculty of Engineering awards degrees in computer engineering, civil engineering, geological engineering, mechanical engineering. The Faculty of Natural Sciences offers a bachelor's program in biological sciences. The Faculty of Architecture and Physical Planning offers two degrees: architecture and physical planning, and urban planning and spatial planning. The Faculty of Social and Human Sciences awards a bachelor's degree in tourism and hospitality, and a degree in international relations and development. The Business School offers three degrees: economics, business management, and accounting, taxation, and auditing.\n\nAs of 2008, the university had 43 faculty, of which 46.5% were women, and a student-to-faculty ratio of 17:1. By 2013, the university had 192 faculty, and a student-to-faculty ratio of 7.4:1, one of the lowest in the country. Ten faculty members represent nationalities other than Mozambican. The university is aiming to reach 80% of its faculty having a master's degree or higher, and its ideal is to have 70% of the faculty with master's degrees and 30% with doctorates.\nLúrio University has three campuses in northern Mozambique. The main campus, opened in 2007, is located in Marrere, Nampula Province, near the city of Nampula. Its two satellite campuses, located in Pemba, Cabo Delgado Province and Sanga, Niassa Province, were opened in 2008 and 2009, respectively. Overall, throughout its three campuses, the university's academic spaces include 120 work spaces, 54 classrooms, and a number of laboratories. Each campus has a student dining room. There are 18 student dormitories at the Nampula campus, and four (plus 25 more planned) in Niassa. A 70-bed teaching hospital and an eye hospital are planned for the Nampula campus.\n\nThe Nampula campus contains the faculties of Health Sciences, Architecture and Physical Planning, Social and Human Sciences, and the School of Business. At the Pemba campus are located the faculties of Engineering and Natural Sciences. The Niassa campus consists of the Faculty of Agrarian Sciences. Although the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences is based out of the Nampula campus, it courses include time spent at the Island of Mozambique.\n\nThe university has some sports programs, including basketball, handball, and tennis. The university is looking to develop a football (soccer) team, and recently built a field and stands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17822952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17822952", "title": "Malaysian Qualifications Agency", "text": "Malaysian Qualifications Agency\n\nThe Malaysian Qualifications Agency (Agensi Kelayakan Malaysia) or the MQA is a statutory body in Malaysia set up under the Malaysian Qualifications Act 2007 to accredit academic programs provided by educational institutions providing post secondary or higher education and facilitate the accreditation and articulation of qualifications.\n\nThe main role of the MQA is to implement the Malaysian Qualifications Framework (MQF) as a basis for quality assurance of higher education and as the reference point for the criteria and standards for national qualifications. Specifically, the functions of the MQA are:\n\nThe MQA also evaluates foreign qualifications and assesses it for equivalency with Malaysian secondary school and university preparatory qualifications.\n\nThe Education Act 1996 specifically excludes from its definition of educational institutions, schools or any other institutions where the teaching is confined exclusively to the teaching of any religion or any place declared by the Minister by notification in the Gazette not to be an educational institution. This allows for schools that provide religious instruction exclusively (like seminaries) to be exempt from the jurisdiction of the MQA.\n\nUnder Malaysian law, all institutions of higher education established by the federal government are deemed to be self-accrediting whereas no formal accreditation system for courses of study provided by privately owned (including those owned by state governments) existed until the passing of the series of education-related legislation in 1996.\n\nThe first university in Malaysia, the University of Malaya (UM), was a result of the union between the older King Edward VII College of Medicine (established in 1905) and Raffles College (established in 1928) with the passage of the University of Malaya Ordinance 1949. The ordinance empowered UM to confer diplomas and degrees in its own name, making it de jure self-accrediting institution. With the 1961 separation of the Kuala Lumpur campus and Singapore campus of UM into the University of Malaya and the University of Singapore respectively, the University of Malaya Act 1961 and the Degrees and Diplomas Acts 1962 re-affirmed the authority granted to under previous legislations to the newly re-organised UM.\n\nWith the passage of the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971 (UUCA), all universities and university colleges established by the federal government of Malaysia were granted the power to confer diplomas and degrees in their own name. Universiti Teknologi Mara was established by the Universiti Teknologi Mara Act 1976 granting it the same powers as other institutions established under the UUCA but allowing it to restrict its enrolment of non-Malay and non-Bumiputra students by virtue of Article 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia.\n\nThe Registration of Schools Ordinance 1950 provided for the registration of privately owned educational institutions providing post secondary or higher education. Subsequent legislation such as the Education Ordinance 1957, the Education Act 1961, the Essential (Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations 1969, the Education (Amendment) Act 1963, and the Education Act 1996, continued to provide the legal basis for the registration of private institutions of higher education but continued to grant the power to approve courses of study by the Minister.\n\nNonetheless, the passage of the National Council of Higher Education Act 1996 gave indications that an overhaul of the regulations governing private institutions of higher education was being planned. The subsequent passages of the Private Higher Educational Institutes Act 1996 and the Lembaga Akreditasi Negara Act 1996 later the same year saw the revamping of the registration and approval regime of private institutions of higher education.\n\nA statutory body known as Lembaga Akreditasi Negara () or LAN was established under the Lembaga Akreditasi Negara Act 1996 to accredit certificate, diploma and degree programs provided by private institutions of higher education. In April 2002, a Quality Assurance Division (QAD) was established by the Ministry of Education (MOE) to manage and co-ordinate the quality assurance system in public institutions of higher learning.\n\nA national consultation seminar was convened in 2003 to streamline and provide for a unified system of qualifications offered by all institutions of higher education in Malaysia; this eventually saw the adoption of the Malaysian Qualifications Framework (MQF) in 2007.\n\nOn 1 November 2007, the QAD and LAN were dissolved and their functions taken over by the MQA which was established under the Malaysian Qualifications Agency Act 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55487643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55487643", "title": "Marian Garfinkel", "text": "Marian Garfinkel\n\nMarian Garfinkel (born April 2, 1932) is an early researcher in the field of complementary medicine, showing that yoga could be used to treat and possibly cure a variety of hand injuries resulting from repetitive use. She studied with B. K. S. Iyengar for over 40 years, making annual trips to yoga centers in India, France, California and Michigan. As a result of her contact with Iyengar, she and her former husband Marvin Garfinkel is credited with inspiring the sculptor Robert Engman to create the sculpture After Iyengar, currently on display at the Morris Arboretum at the University of Pennsylvania and at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington DC. \n\nGarfinkel grew up in Altoona, Pennsylvania, the youngest of four children. She married Marvin Garfinkel in 1962, and settled at Cobble Court in 1974.\n\nFollowing the award of her degree, Dr. Garfinkel assumed teaching positions at the University of Pennsylvania and Temple University.\nIn 2016, Garfinkel's extensive archives regarding B. K. S. Iyengar were donated to the Iyengar Yoga National Association of the United States (IYANUS).\n\nGarfinkel is a senior certified Iyengar teacher who was a student of B. K. S. Iyengar between 1976, when she first met him in Ann Arbor, MI, and his death in 2014.\n\nIn 1994 Garfinkel was the lead author of a study that showed that yoga could be used for treatment of osteoarthritis of the hands, and in 1998, Garfinkel was lead author of a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association demonstrating the yoga could be used to relive the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. At the time of the article's publication, Garfinkel was in India, studying with Iyengar. On her return from India, she discovered over 900 e-mail messages in her inbox, many from people who were eager to see if she could help them. In 2000, she published an article co-authored with H. Ralph Schumacher, Jr. presenting the ability of Yoga to cure a variety of rheumatic diseases.\n"}
{"id": "6081476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6081476", "title": "Mary Jarred", "text": "Mary Jarred\n\nMary Jarred (9 October 189912 December 1993) was an English opera singer of the mid-twentieth century. She is sometimes classed as a mezzo-soprano and sometimes as a contralto.\n\nJarred was born in Brotton, Yorkshire, (now in Redcar and Cleveland), and studied at the Royal College of Music.\nJarred began her career singing minor roles at Covent Garden beginning in 1929. On the recommendation of Lauritz Melchior, she was invited to the Hamburg State Opera and remained there as a guest artist for the following three years. Her roles included the Nurse in Richard Strauss's \"Die Frau ohne Schatten\" and several in contemporary works by Hans Pfitzner and Alban Berg. In 1933, she sang Orpheus in Gluck's \"Orpheus and Eurydice\" for Sadler's Wells Opera.\n\nAt Covent Garden she sang every year from 1933 until 1939, when the theatre closed at the outbreak of war. She sang Erda in Wagner's \"Das Rheingold\" and \"Siegfried\", and Fricka in \"Die Walküre\". In 1934, she sang Margret in the first British broadcast performance of Alban Berg's \"Wozzeck\" for the BBC, conducted by Adrian Boult. During and immediately after the Second World War, Jarred performed in recitals and concerts. She returned to opera in 1953, as the brothel keeper in the British stage première of Stravinsky's \"The Rake's Progress\".\n\nIn concert, she was famed as contralto soloist in Handel's \"Messiah\", J.S. Bach's \"St Matthew Passion,\" Mendelssohn's \"Elijah\" and Beethoven's Choral Symphony. She was also a well-known Angel in Elgar's \"The Dream of Gerontius\". \"The Times\" commented: \"In all these parts her commitment, sincerity and warmth of personality were abundantly evident.\" On 5 October 1938, she was one of the original 16 singers in Vaughan Williams's \"Serenade to Music\".\n\nAfter her retirement, she was a professor at the Royal Academy of Music from 1965 to 1973. Along with Eva Turner and Roy Henderson, Mary Jarred took part in a BBC Radio broadcast written and presented by John Steane in 1989 celebrating the 50th anniversary of the \"Serenade to Music.\"\n\nJarred died at the age of 94.\n\nJarred's recordings include the following:\n"}
{"id": "12322936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12322936", "title": "Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction", "text": "Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction\n\nThe Midwest Program on Airborne Television Instruction (MPATI) was a special broadcasting initiative designed to broadcast educational television programming to schools, especially in areas where local educational television stations are either hard to receive or unavailable.\nFrom 1961 through 1968, MPATI's programming broadcast from two DC-6AB aircraft based at the Purdue University Airport in West Lafayette, Indiana, using a broadcasting technique known as Stratovision.\n\nThe undertaking began as a three-year experiment in 1960, with MPATI organizing, producing, and broadcasting instructional television with seed money from the Ford Foundation. This was a nonprofit organization of educators and television producers that pioneered instructional television for enriching education in public schools throughout the midwest. This was in times prior to the advent of satellite television transmission. By 1963, MPATI moved into its second phase where it relied totally on membership fees but it was never financially stable. MPATI found it difficult to get enough member schools to finance the organization. In its third reorganization, MPATI, unable to meet its expenses through membership fees, ceased producing and broadcasting courses in 1968 and became a tape library.\n\nOne of the two aircraft would go aloft for six to eight hours at a time; take up a twenty-minute figure-eight station centered over Montpelier, Indiana (35 miles north of Muncie, Indiana) at an altitude of 23,000 feet. From this position the range of transmission was approximately 200 miles in diameter; stations transmission included both Chicago and Detroit metropolitan areas. When on station the plane would reduce speed, and then lower a forty-foot antenna mast which was gyroscopically stabilized so that the antenna always aligned from the aircraft to the center of the earth. This stabilization feature helped to maintain polarization of the signals from these planes. Beam characteristics of the antenna were sharp and reception was optimized by placing the reception antenna as near as practical to the ground and pointing it toward the Montpelier location to minimize multipath canceling and interference.\n\nProgramming from the planes was always pre-recorded; program slates, taped classroom instruction and test patterns with canned music were all that was aired from the MPATI planes. Frequently snowy pictures were what students saw from the low power transmitters of KS2XGA or KS2XGD channels 72 and 76 UHF respectively.\n\nThe television equipment and transmitters were powered by a gas-turbine electrical power plant in the aft end of the DC-6 fuselage; equipment similar in design to auxiliary power units later jet transport aircraft use for engine starting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1604678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1604678", "title": "Pilot certification in the United States", "text": "Pilot certification in the United States\n\nPilot certification in the United States is typically required for an individual to act as a pilot-in-command of an aircraft. It is regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a branch of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT). A pilot is certified under the authority of Parts 61 or (if training was conducted by an FAA-approved school) 141 of Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations, also known as the Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs).\n\nAn FAA-issued \"pilot certificate\" is evidence that an individual is duly authorized to exercise piloting privileges. The pilot certificate is one of several kinds of \"airman certificates\" issued by the FAA.\n\nA pilot is certificated to fly aircraft at one or more named \"privilege levels\" and, at each privilege level, rated to fly aircraft of specific \"categories\". Privilege levels of pilot certificates are, in order of increasing privilege:\n\nPilots can be rated in these aircraft categories:\n\nMost aircraft categories are further broken down into \"classes\". If a category is so divided, a pilot must hold a class rating to operate an aircraft in that class:\n\nA student pilot certificate does not list category or class ratings but is instead endorsed by a flight instructor to confer privileges in specific makes and models of aircraft.\n\nA \"type rating\" is required in a specific make and model of aircraft if the aircraft weighs more than at takeoff or is powered by one or more turbojet engines. The Boeing 747, Beechcraft Super King Air 350, and the Hawker Hunter are examples of aircraft that require type ratings.\n\nTo legally operate under instrument flight rules (IFR), a pilot can separately add an instrument rating to a private or commercial certificate. An airline transport pilot implicitly holds an instrument rating, so the instrument rating does not appear on an ATP certificate. The FAA issues instrument ratings separately for airplane and powered lift categories and the helicopter class (INSTA and INSTH). Glider and airship pilots may also operate under Instrument Flight Rules under certain circumstances. An individual may hold only one pilot certificate at one time; that certificate may authorize multiple privilege levels distinguished by aircraft category, class or type. For example, an Airline Transport Pilot certificate holder may be permitted to exercise ATP privileges when flying multi-engine land airplanes, but only Commercial Pilot privileges when flying single-engine land airplanes and gliders. Similarly a Commercial Pilot holder with a glider rating may have only Private Pilot privileges for single-engine land airplanes.\n\nThe FAA may impose \"limitations\" on a pilot certificate if, during training or the practical test, the pilot does not demonstrate all skills necessary to exercise all privileges of a privilege level, category, class or type rating. For example, a holder of a DC-3 type rating who does not demonstrate instrument flying skills during the practical test would be assigned a limitation reading, \"DC-3 (VFR Only)\".\n\nTo obtain a certificate or add a rating, a pilot usually has to undergo a course of training with a Certificated Flight Instructor (CFI) under 14CFR61 or enroll at an approved course at a 14CFR141 approved flight school. The applicant must accumulate and log specific aeronautical experience, and pass a three-part examination: a \"knowledge test\" (a computerized multiple-choice test, typically called the \"written test\"), an \"oral\" test, and a \"practical\" test carried out by either an FAA inspector or a Designated Pilot Examiner.\n\nAnother form of authorization is a logbook \"endorsement\" from a flight instructor that establishes that the certificate holder has received training in specific skill areas that do not warrant a full test, such as the ability to fly a tailwheel-equipped, high-performance, complex, or pressurized airplane.\n\nPilot certificates do not expire, although they may be suspended or revoked by the FAA. However, a pilot must maintain \"currency\" — recent flight experience that is relevant to the flight being undertaken. To remain current, every pilot has to undergo a flight review with an instructor every 24 calendar months unless she or he gains a new pilot certificate or rating in that time or satisfies the flight review requirement using an alternate approved means. For most types of certificate, she or he must also undergo a medical examination at intervals ranging from six months to five years, depending on the pilot's age and desired flight privileges. Other currency requirements apply to the carriage of passengers or to flight under instrument flight rules (IFR).\n\nA medical certificate is not necessary to fly a glider, balloon, or light-sport Aircraft. An ultralight aircraft may be piloted without a pilot certificate or a medical certificate.\n\nIn addition to pilot certificates, the FAA issues separate airman certificates for Flight Engineers, Flight Instructors, Ground Instructors, Aircraft Dispatchers, Mechanics, Repairmen, Parachute Riggers, Control Tower Operators, Flight Navigators, and Flight Attendants.\n\nMost pilots in the U.S. undergo flight training as private individuals with a flight instructor, who may be employed by a flight school. Those who have decided on aviation as a career often begin with an undergraduate aviation-based education. Some pilots are trained in the military and are issued with civilian certificates based on their military record. Others are trained directly by airlines. The pilot may choose to be trained under Part 61 or Part 141 of the FARs. Part 141 requires that a certificated flight school provide an approved, structured course of training, which includes a specified number of hours of ground training (for example, 35 hours for Private Pilot in an airplane). Part 61 sets out a list of knowledge and experience requirements, and is more suitable for students who cannot commit to a structured plan, or for training from freelance instructors. Under Part 61 pilot training, individuals can become a private pilot in about three months and a commercial pilot in as quick as seven months.\n\nMost pilot certificates and ratings require the applicant to pass a knowledge test, also called the written test. The knowledge test results are valid for a period of 2 years, and are usually a prerequisite for practical tests. Resources available to prepare for the knowledge test may be obtained from pilot supply stores or vendors. The exceptions where a knowledge exam is not required for a practical test are for some add-on ratings after the initial license, such as a powered aircraft pilot adding another category rating at the same license level.\n\nTo take knowledge tests for all pilot certificates and ratings, the applicant must have a sign-off from a ground or flight instructor. These are usually given by an instructor who has taught a ground school course, provided ground instruction or reviewed the applicant's self-study preparations. Certain circumstances don't require sign-offs for some flight instructor or airline transport pilot knowledge tests.\n\nAll pilots certificates and ratings require a practical test, usually called a \"check ride\". For each practical test, the FAA publishes a Practical Test Standards document that they expect the applicant to study, the flight instructor to teach and evaluate against, and the examiner to use to conduct the exam. A practical test is administered by an FAA Inspector or an FAA Designated Pilot Examiner. The check-ride is divided into two parts: the oral exam followed by a flight test in the aircraft. Upon successful completion of the practical test, the examiner issues a temporary airman certificate with the new license or rating. To take practical tests for all pilot certificates and ratings (except airline transport pilot), the applicant must have proper logbook endorsements from their flight instructor.\n\nIn aviation, a pilot's level of income and experience are closely related. There are multiple ways to gain the experience required for hire by a scheduled air carrier. Air carriers generally require that the pilots they hire have hours of experience far in excess of the legal minimum. Effective August 1, 2013, all airline pilots must have an Airline Transport Pilot Certificate (ATP) or an Airline Transport Pilot Certificate with restricted Privileges (ATP-r). An ATP allows a pilot to act as the Captain or First Officer of an airline flight and requires 1,500 hours of total flight time as well as other requirements (i.e. 25 hours of night, 23 years old), see 14CFR61.159. An ATP-r certificate allows a pilot to act as a First Officer in a two pilot crew if they do not meet certain requirements. For example, the total flight time requirement is reduced to as little as 750 hours and the age requirement is reduced to 21. see 14CFR61.160.\n\nExperience is often gained using these methods:\n\nThe FAA offers a progression of pilot certificates or licenses. Each license has varying experience and knowledge requirements and has varying privileges and limitations.\n\nA student pilot certificate is obtained through the FAA's Integrated Airman Certification and Rating Application (IACRA) system. The student pilot certificate is only required when exercising solo flight privileges. Student pilots must also possess a medical certificate when conducting flights requiring medical certification. As of April 1, 2016 student pilot certificates do not expire. Once a student has accrued sufficient training and experience, a CFI can \"endorse\" the student's logbook to authorize limited solo flight in a specific type (make and model) of aircraft. Additional endorsements must be logged for specific airports where a student operates solo.\n\nThere is no minimum aeronautical knowledge or experience requirement for the issuance of a student pilot certificate. There are, however, minimum aeronautical knowledge and experience requirements for student pilots to solo, including:\n\nSolo requirements:\nLimitations while flying solo:\n\nThe sport pilot certificate was created in September 2004 .The intent of the new rule was to lower the barriers of entry into aviation and make flying more affordable and accessible.\n\nThe new rule also created the Light Sport Aircraft (LSA) category of aircraft, which are smaller, lower-powered aircraft. The sport pilot certificate offers limited privileges mainly for recreational use. It is the only powered aircraft certificate that does not require a medical certificate; a valid vehicle driver's license can be used as proof of medical competence \"provided\" the prospective pilot was not rejected for their last Airman Medical Certificate.\n\nBefore a trainee can start the solo phase of flight training, a Student Sport Pilot Certificate must be issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). These may be obtained from an FAA Flight Standards District Office or FAA Designated Pilot Examiner.\n\nTo qualify for the sport pilot certificate, an applicant must:\n\nThe above requirements are for heavier-than-air powered aircraft (airplanes). The requirements for gliders, balloons, gyroplanes, and dirigibles vary slightly.\n\nSport pilots are only eligible to fly aircraft that are either certificated specifically as light-sport aircraft (LSA) or were certificated prior to the LSA regulations and are within the maximum weight and performance limitations of light-sport aircraft.\n\nThe restrictions placed on a Pilot exercising the privileges of a Sport pilot certificate are:\n\nThe Sport pilot certificate is also ineligible for additional ratings (such as an Instrument rating), although time in light-sport aircraft can be used towards the experience requirement of other ratings on higher certificate types.\n\nThe recreational pilot certificate requires less training and offers fewer privileges than the private pilot certificate. It was originally created for flying small single-engine planes for personal enjoyment; the newer Sport Pilot certificate overlaps this need and is easier to get, but the recreational certificate allows access to larger single-engine aircraft, and instructor endorsements are available to recreational pilots that are not applicable to sport pilots, such as flying at night or cross-country.\nEligibility requirements:\nLimitations and restrictions (without additional endorsement):\n\nMost of the above limitations, except the one-passenger, four-seat and single-engine restrictions, can be relaxed or lifted individually through instructor endorsement. These endorsements are obtained by participating in a prescribed course of ground and/or flight instruction given by an FAA-certificated instructor, including a minimum number of instructor-led flight in a plane or situation normally requiring the endorsement. Common types of endorsement for recreational pilots can allow:\n\n\nA recreational pilot will typically only get a few of these, to allow operation of an aircraft in a few exceptional situations applicable to their locale (the Class B/C/D endorsement, for instance, is practically required for pilots living in major cities). Pilots requiring a large subset of these endorsements are typically better served by obtaining their private pilot certification.\n\nThe private pilot certificate is the certificate held by the majority of active pilots. It allows command of any aircraft (subject to appropriate ratings) for any non-commercial purpose, and gives almost unlimited authority to fly under visual flight rules (VFR). Passengers may be carried and flight in furtherance of a business is permitted; however, a private pilot may not be compensated in any way for services as a pilot, although passengers can pay a \"pro rata\" share of flight expenses, such as fuel or rental costs. Private pilots may also operate charity flights, subject to certain restrictions, and may participate in similar activities, such as Angel Flight, Civil Air Patrol and many others.\n\nThe requirements to obtain a private pilot certificate for \"airplane, single-engine, land\", or ASEL, (which is the most common certificate) are:\n\nA certificated commercial pilot may act as pilot-in-command of an aircraft for compensation or hire, as well as carry persons or property for compensation or hire. Training for the certificate focuses on a better understanding of aircraft systems and a higher standard of airmanship. The commercial certificate itself does not allow a pilot to fly in instrument meteorological conditions. For aircraft categories where an instrument rating is available, commercial pilots without an instrument rating are restricted to daytime flight within when carrying passengers for hire.\n\nA commercial airplane pilot must be able to operate a complex airplane, as a specific number of hours of complex (or turbine-powered) aircraft time are among the prerequisites. \n\nThe requirements are:\n\nBy itself, this certificate does not permit the pilot to set up an operation that carries members of the public for hire; such operations are governed by other regulations. Otherwise, a commercial pilot can be paid for certain types of operation, such as banner towing, agricultural applications, and photography, and can be paid for instructing if she or he holds a flight instructor certificate (In the case of lighter-than-air, only a commercial pilot certificate is required to teach for that category). To fly for hire, the pilot must hold a second class medical certificate, which is valid for 12 months.\n\nOften, the commercial certificate reduces the pilot’s insurance premiums, as it is evidence of training to a higher safety standard.\n\nAn airline transport pilot (commonly called an \"ATP\") is tested to the highest level of piloting ability. The certificate is a prerequisite for acting as a flight crew-member in scheduled airline operations.\n\nThe minimum pilot experience is 1,500 hours of flight time (1200 for Helicopters), 500 hours of cross-country flight time, 100 hours of night flight time, and 75 hours instrument operations time (simulated or actual). Other requirements include being 23 years of age, an instrument rating, being able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language, a rigorous written examination, and being of good moral character.\n\nAn Airline Transport Pilot - restricted (ATP-r) is also available for pilots that do not meet the more rigorous requirements of an ATP. The only hour requirement for the ATP-r is 1,500 total and 200 cross country. The \"total time\" requirement is reduced to 750 hours for former military pilots, 1,000 hours for graduates of university bachelor's degree programs, or 1,250 for graduates of university associate degree programs. The holder of an ATP-r is limited to only serving as the First Officer in a two pilot operation. Upon obtaining the requisite age and aeronautical experience, the pilot is issued an unrestricted ATP without further examination. see 14CFR61.160 (requirements) and 14CFR61.167(privileges and limitations)\n\nIt is possible to mix the license levels on one certificate. For example, a private pilot with both glider and airplane ratings could earn a commercial license for gliders. The new license would then list the airplane ratings as having only \"private privileges.\"\n\nAs of the end of 2017, in the US, there were an estimated 609,306 active certificated pilots. This number has been declining gradually over the past several decades, down from a high of over 827,000 pilots in 1980. There were 702,659 in 1990 and 625,581 in 2000. The numbers include:\n\n\nThese numbers are based on the highest certifications held by individual pilots.\n\nThe numbers also include: \n\nAn active pilot is defined as one who holds both a pilot certificate and a valid medical certificate, for certifications that require a medical certificate.\n\n\nUnited States military pilots are issued an Aviator Badge upon completion of flight training and issuance of a pilot's certificate. Badges for crew or ground positions are also issued to qualified applicants.\n\nUnmanned Aircraft System (Drone) pilots are required to obtain a remote pilot airman certificate with a small UAS rating when operating commercially.\n\nAll certificated pilots, with the exception of those with a sport or Recreational pilot certificate (or when in command of balloons or gliders, including power assisted gliders), are required to maintain a medical certification commensurate with the privileges they intend to exercise as pilot-in-command of an aircraft.\n\nFor sport pilot certificate applicants or holders, regulations state that a medical is required if the applicant/pilot does not hold a valid United States drivers license.\n\nTo obtain a medical certification, pilots are required to undergo a medical examination from an Aviation Medical Examiner, or AME. The Aviation Medical Examiner performs an examination based upon the class of certification desired.\n\nMedical certifications are divided into three classes:\n\nThird class certifications require the least involved examinations of all medical certifications. They are required for those intending to be pilot-in-command of an aircraft under the Private or Recreational pilot certificates or while exercising solo privileges as a student pilot.\nTo qualify for a third class medical certificate, pilots must meet the following requirements:\n\nFor pilots under 40 years of age, third class medical certificates expire on the last day of the month they were issued, five years from the date of issue. The FAA changed this rule from three to five years on July 24, 2008. For all others, they expire on the last day of the month they were issued, two years from the date of issue.\n\nIn December 2015, the U.S. Senate passed a bill sponsored by Montana Senator Steve Daines, S. 571- Pilot’s Bill of Rights 2 (PBOR 2). If signed into law, the bill would expand the third class medical exemption for recreational pilots by reforming the FAA’s medical certification process to include more qualified, trained pilots.\n\nA second class medical is required for those intending to exercise the privileges of the commercial pilot certificate. It is possible to obtain a commercial pilot certificate while holding a third class medical, but with the exception of flight instruction, the licensee cannot exercise privileges beyond that of a private pilot.\n\nTo qualify for a second class medical certificate, pilots must meet the requirements for the third class certificate plus:\n\nSecond class certificates are valid until the last day of the month, twelve months after they were issued. The certificate holder may then only exercise the privileges of a third class medical certificate.\n\nFirst class certificates are required for those intending to be pilot-in-command in an air carrier operation requiring an Airline Transport Pilot (ATP) certificate. Other operations, including those under Part 91, may require a first class medical for insurance purposes, although it is not a federal requirement in such cases.\n\nTo qualify for the first class medical certificate, pilots must meet the requirements for the third and second class certificates plus:\n\nFor pilots under 40 years of age, first class medical certificates expire on the last day of the month they were issued, one year from the date of issue. The FAA introduced this rule on July 24, 2008.\nFor all others, they are valid until the last day of the month, six months after they were issued. The certificate holder may then only exercise the privileges of a second class medical certificate until the last day of the month, twelve months after the certificate was issued, thereafter the privileges of a third class medical until the last day of the month, twenty four months after the medical was issued ( FAA $61.23 (d-1-iii) ).\n\nPilots who do not meet the above requirements may be issued a medical certificate under a \"special issuance.\" A special issuance is essentially a waiver for a disqualifying condition and are evaluated case-by-case depending on the class of certificate requested. Minor problems can be overcome by a special issuance from an Aviation Medical Examiner, while others require a special issuance from the FAA directly.\n\nRestrictions may be placed upon a medical certificate to mitigate any concern for safety. A common restriction for pilots who require glasses or contacts to meet the required visual acuity standards is that they \"MUST WEAR CORRECTIVE LENSES.\" Color-blind pilots are typically issued a restriction reading, \"NOT VALID FOR NIGHT FLIGHT OR BY COLOR SIGNAL CONTROL.\" This mitigates the concern that color-blind pilots may not be able to identify those colors required for the performance of safe airman duties by preventing situations that are considered potentially unsafe.\n\nFor color vision deficient pilots, in many cases these restrictions can be removed through use of an FAA approved alternative office based color vision test, which if passed, the applicant must continue to retake that same test (or any other passable tests) at every renewal. If the pilot applicant is unable to pass any of the office based tests, a real world operational test is available. This test consists of a ground-based chart reading and control tower signal light test for Third Class medical certification (This is called the Operational Color Vision Test or OCVT), and in addition to that, a specialized \"Medical Flight Test\" (MFT) is required for Second and First Class medical certification. The applicant performs an actual flight test with an FAA Aviation Safety Inspector (ASI) for the purpose of further demonstrating \"the ability to perceive those colors necessary for the safe performance of airman duties\", which is the color vision requirement as written in the FARs. Note that \"Normal Color Vision\" is not required, as a certain amount of color vision deficiency is considered safe and permitted. If the tests are passed, a \"Letter of Evidence\" (LOE) from the FAA is issued, which serves as evidence that the pilot meets the standards for Color Vision and the AME is permitted to issue the class of Medical Certificate indicated on the LOE (All classes if both the OCVT and MFT are passed) with no related restriction if all other medical requirements are met. This allows the pilot to receive a medical certificate with no restrictions related to color vision without the requirement of passing an office based color vision test at every subsequent renewal.\n\nIn addition to pilot licenses the FAA also issues other airmen certificates.\n\n\nPilots do not need FCC licenses to use the radio within the United States (pilot certificates double as FCC radio licenses); however, other countries may require that a pilot have an FCC Restricted Radiotelephone Operator Permit (RR), and the aircraft radio station be licensed.\n\n\nEach certification varies in cost and depends on aircraft rental and instructor rates at a given flight school. On average, these are the costs for each pilot certification from least to greatest:\n\n\nBecoming a pilot is expensive but there are many ways to save money:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10349579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10349579", "title": "Reception (school)", "text": "Reception (school)\n\nReception, Year 0, Nursery, or FS2 (foundation second year) is the first year of primary school in the United Kingdom (except Northern Ireland and Scotland). It comes after nursery and before Year One in England and Wales or Primary 2 in Northern Ireland.\n\nPupils in Reception are usually aged between four and five. Children start school either in the term or in the year in which they reach four, depending on the policy of the Local Education Authority. Reception is the final part of the Early Years Foundation Stage of education.\n\nMost areas admit entire year groups in September, regardless of which month they were born, meaning that some pupils will be starting primary school in the month of their four birthday, while others will be almost a year ahead of this milestone.\n\nOther areas admit Reception pupils in the term of their fourth birthday, while some admit pupils in September if they were born between September and February, and in January if they were born between March and August.\n\nThere is no reception year in Scotland as children progress directly from Nursery to Primary 1 (equivalent to English Year 1) in the August nearest their fifth birthday. Generally this means that a complete intake into P1 ranges from four and a half to five and a half years old. It is also possible for parents of children born in January and February to defer admission by one year, so that they start at five and a half rather than four and a half.\n\nPreviously, children in England and Wales had started school later than children in Northern Ireland, where the starting age was generally four, dependent on the date of the child's birthday.\n"}
{"id": "355905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355905", "title": "Reith Lectures", "text": "Reith Lectures\n\nThe Reith Lectures is a series of annual radio lectures given by leading figures of the day, commissioned by the BBC and broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and the BBC World Service. The lectures were inaugurated in 1948 by the BBC to mark the historic contribution made to public service broadcasting by Lord Reith, the corporation's first director-general.\n\nReith maintained that broadcasting should be a public service which enriches the intellectual and cultural life of the nation. It is in this spirit that the BBC each year invites a leading figure to deliver a series of lectures on radio. The aim is to advance public understanding and debate about significant issues of contemporary interest.\n\nThe first Reith lecturer was the philosopher and Nobel laureate, Bertrand Russell. The first female lecturer was Dame Margery Perham in 1961, who spoke on the impact of colonialism in her series of talks entitled \"The Colonial Reckoning\". The youngest Reith Lecturer was Colin Blakemore, who was 32 years old in 1976 when he broadcast six lectures on the brain and consciousness, titled \"Mechanics of the Mind\".\n\nIn June 2011 BBC Radio 4 published its Reith Lectures archive. This included two podcasts featuring over 240 lectures from 1948 to the present day as well as streamed online audio, and the complete written transcripts of the entire Reith Lectures archive:\n\n\nThe BBC found that some of the audio archive of the Reith Lectures was missing from its library and appealed to the public for copies of the missing lectures.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2006470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2006470", "title": "Rescue Engineering", "text": "Rescue Engineering\n\nRescue Engineering (RE) is an interdisciplinary bachelor's- and master's degree at the Technical University of Cologne since 2002 and at the Hamburg University of Applied Sciences (bachelor only) since 2006, this academic degree prepares for working at fire brigades, emergency medical servicees or other aid organisations.\n\nRescue Engineering has existed since 2002, the preconditions being the \"allgemeinen Fachhochschulreife\" a work experience of four month. \nRescue Engineering is a full-time study with lectures and interns. Support and many assistant professors come from the \"Institut für Notfallmedizin\" and the professional fire brigades.\n\nThe curriculum is similar to industrial engineering, fielded in parts of engineering, economics and social science.\n\nThe basics cover the subjects of chemistry, physics, mathematics, mechanics, materials science, electrical and measurement engineering.\n\nThe economics part consists of business and administration, accounting, taxes, logistics, quality management and project management\n\nIn the field of the socioscientifics subjects like law and mediation but also public health, psychology, sociology and epidemiology should create comprehension for special task in the work of rescue.\n\nThe alumnus can be employed at professional fire brigades, GO or in the management of emergency medical servicees. Tasks in fire prevention in industry or commerce can also be a career destination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161761", "title": "Rosetta Project", "text": "Rosetta Project\n\nThe Rosetta Project is a global collaboration of language specialists and native speakers working to develop a contemporary version of the historic Rosetta Stone to last from 2000 to 12,000 AD; it is run by the Long Now Foundation. Its goal is a meaningful survey and near permanent archive of 1,500 languages. Some of these languages have fewer than one thousand speakers left. Others are considered to be dying out because government centralization and globalization are increasing the prevalence of English and other major languages. The intention is to create a unique platform for comparative linguistic research and education, as well as a functional linguistic tool that might help in the recovery or revitalisation of lost languages in the future.\n\nThe project is creating this broad language archive through an open contribution, open review process similar to the strategy that created the original \"Oxford English Dictionary\". The resulting archive will be publicly available in three different media: a HD-Rosetta micro-etched nickel alloy disc three inches (7.62 cm) across with a 2,000 year life expectancy; a single volume monumental reference book; and a growing online archive. \n\nFifty to ninety percent of the world's languages are predicted to disappear in the next century, many with little or no significant documentation. Much linguistic description, especially the description of languages with few speakers, remains hidden in personal research files or poorly preserved in under-funded archives.\n\nAs part of the effort to secure this critical legacy of linguistic diversity, the Long Now Foundation plans a broad online survey and near-permanent physical archive of 1,500 of the approximately 7,000 human languages.\n\nThe project has three overlapping goals:\n\n\nThe 1,500-language corpus expands on the parallel-text structure of the original Rosetta Stone through archiving ten descriptive components for each of the 1,500 selected languages.\n\nThe goal is an open source \"Linux of Linguistics\"—an effort of collaborative online scholarship drawing on the expertise and contributions of thousands of academic specialists and native speakers around the world. The project is also organising formal archive research groups at Stanford, Yale, Berkeley, the American Library of Congress, and the American Summer Institute of Linguistics (and its offices in Dallas).\n\nThe resulting Rosetta archives are publicly available in three different media:\n\n\nA \"Version 1.0\" of the HD-Rosetta disc was completed on November 3, 2008. The disc contains over 13,000 pages of information using over 1,500 languages, which can be read after magnifying by 650 times with a microscope.\n\nIn early 2017, the Rosetta Wearable Disk was released. It was developed using a similar manufacturing process as the first edition of the Rosetta Disk, the main difference being that the final archive is about 2 cm in diameter, thus enabling wearing as an ornament on the human body. One side has instructions in eight different languages and scripts (Bahasa Indonesia, English, Hindi, Mandarin, Modern Standard Arabic, Spanish, Swahili, and Russian), and the other an archive of over 1000 human languages assembled in 2016. By November 2017, the initial run of 100 disks had all been sold, but new releases are planned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9974131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9974131", "title": "Sakura Japanese language School", "text": "Sakura Japanese language School\n\n"}
{"id": "32023530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32023530", "title": "ScholarMatch", "text": "ScholarMatch\n\nScholarMatch is a San Francisco-based nonprofit organization that aims to make college possible for underserved youth by matching students with donors, resources, colleges, and professional networks.\n\nFounded in 2010 by best-selling author and philanthropist Dave Eggers, ScholarMatch began as a scholarship crowdfunding platform and a project of 826 National. ScholarMatch became an independent 501(c)3 in 2012 and evolved into a full-service college access organization. ScholarMatch serves low-income, college-bound students, most of whom will be the first in their family to go to college, by providing college counseling, free online tools, scholarships, and support services all the way to college graduation. ScholarMatch has expanded rapidly from serving just 39 students in 2010 to working in-person with over 600 students per year, serving many more virtually, and awarding nearly one million in scholarship dollars.\n\nScholarMatch's model champions low-income and first-generation students in the three critical areas: navigating the college admissions process, paying for school, and creating a support system in college. ScholarMatch is the only major nonprofit that combines a crowdfunded scholarship platform with game-changing college access and career support for low-income youth. ScholarMatch's typical student comes from a family earning less than $25,000 per year and attends a high school with just one counselor per 500-800 students. ScholarMatch's unique approach is fueled by community engagement and focused on what their students need most: hands-on help applying to college, financial assistance with tuition, and a support system throughout college.\n\nScholarMatch programs include:\n\nThe ScholarMatcher is a free online tool created by ScholarMatch and launched in 2015 that revolutionizes the college search process for low-income students. This user-friendly tool is powered by analysis of thousands of college data points, yet instantly provides students with a curated list of excellent institutions. With just a few clicks, students can create a college application list full of schools that they are academically suited for and where they are most likely to thrive, even though many of these schools were previously unknown to them. The ScholarMatcher is easy to use and includes supplemental materials to help with the application process, perfect for students navigating this road on their own. The ScholarMatcher is used by students, high schools, and other community organizations across the country.\n\nUsing College Scorecard data and a formula created by ScholarMatch staff, over 1,400 colleges and universities across the country were scored on four areas to give them a \"GPA\" oh how well they do supporting low income students. Criteria looked at included financial aid, academic strength, student support services, and post-graduate success. Only schools that scored above a specific threshold are included in the ScholarMatcher tool, a list of schools referred to as the \"College Honor Roll\". In 2015, only 298 schools were included in the Honor Roll and ScholarMatcher.\n\nThe ScholarMatcher has received recognition by the White House, \"Fast Company\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", the \"New York Times\", and \"EdSurge\".\n\nA new version of the ScholarMatcher including a revised selection of colleges and universities and additional search and filter features will launch in the fall of 2016.\n\nScholarMatch works with low-income and first-generation high school and college students. Each year, ScholarMatch serves over 600 students and gives out over $300,000 in scholarship dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2155117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2155117", "title": "Slaughter High", "text": "Slaughter High\n\nSlaughter High is a 1986 American-British slasher film directed and written by George Dugdale, Mark Ezra and Peter Litten. It stars Caroline Munro, Simon Scudamore, Carmine Iannaconne, Donna Yeager, and Sally Cross. The story tells about a group of adults, formerly students who were responsible for a prank gone wrong on April Fool's Day, invited to a reunion at their now defunct high school, where a killer in a jester mask awaits inside and begins to murder them one by one.\n\nThe day begins with popular student Carol Manning (Caroline Munro) jokingly asking school nerd Marty Rantzen (Simon Scuddamore) to have sex with her in the women's locker room. After he removes his clothes, Marty is surprisingly exposed to a group of students who tease him in several ways, including jabbing at his crotch with a javelin, giving him an electric shock, and dunking his head into a toilet bowl. This prank ends when the students's coach comes in to find out what is happening.\n\nThe students are forced to perform a vigorous workout in the gymnasium. Still, two students give Marty a marijuana joint laced with poison, which he smokes in the science lab where he is working on a chemistry project. The joint makes him so sick he runs to the men's room to vomit. While he is gone, one of the popular kids named Skip rigs the experiment to explode in Marty's face. Upon Marty's return, the set up works, causing Marty to panic and a great fire to erupt in the lab after he knocks over a Bunsen burner. In the struggle, Marty accidentally bumps into a shelf where a precariously placed jug of acid sits and causing the jug to fall and break, splashing acid on Marty's face and leaving him horribly disfigured. The sound attracts the attention of the students, who stand by the door in shock.\n\nYears later, those behind the prank are mysteriously invited back to the school for a reunion. Upon arriving, they discover that the campus was closed years ago and the building is in disrepair and awaiting demolition. They begin to think that one of the former students was behind the invitations, but everyone denies it. They decide to break into the school to hang out and drink alcohol, then come across a room containing their old school lockers which, to their surprise, are filled with their old belongings. They notice Marty's old locker, and the alumni begin questioning what happened to him after the prank gone awry. Skip tells them that Marty has supposedly been kept in a mental institution.\n\nSoon, the caretaker is killed onto a coat peg by a jester masked assailant. Soon thereafter, the friends begin dying in gruesome ways - Ted's stomach is melted from acid, Carl is impaled in the back inside a car, Shirley melts away in an acid bath, Susan arrives late and is attacked, Stella and Frank are electrocuted on a bed while having sex, and Joe is slaughtered by tractor blades. After all the deaths, Carol, Nancy and Skip, soon find that the bodies have disappeared. Skip is later hanged in a noose by the killer. Carol and Nancy investigate and find a room playing a video of Marty being bullied by them. Nancy runs off by herself and is chased by the Jester, where she falls into a cesspit and drowns. Carol is left alone and discovers Susan's body before being chased by the Jester inside the old school. In the process, Carol mistakenly kills a survived Skip with a hatchet. After a long run, Carol is ultimately impaled on a javelin pole, and the Jester is revealed to be Marty himself. After this, Marty sees the victims coming back as revenants and they attack him. He then awakes screaming, inside a mental hospital while restrained to a bed and wearing bandages on his face. While being checked on, Marty proceeds to strangle a nurse and dresses in her uniform before killing a doctor with a syringe in the eye. Vowing to actually get revenge, Marty turns to look into the camera and begins to tear off half of his face, before the screen fades to black.\n\n\nIt was originally filmed as \"April Fool's Day\" in late 1984 in London, England, and Virginia Water, Surrey on a budget of $2.1 million. However, the title was changed to \"Slaughter High\" after the filmmakers had learned of Paramount Pictures's slasher film of the same title scheduled for release of the same year.\n\nThe film was given a limited release theatrically in the United States by Vestron Pictures on November 14, 1986. The release expanded in February 1987, and again in April 1987; it opened on a total of thirty-eight screens on April 24, 1987, earning $90,000 between April 24–27. \n\nKevin Thomas of the \"Los Angeles Times\" reviewed the film favorably, noting: \"In its primitive way, \"Slaughter High\", is one of the better teen revenge horror pictures,\" adding that the film \"benefits greatly from its authentic setting, a big, old derelict Tudor-style school building in a remote area, gets actually quite scary, yet the special effects are of the darkly comic, Grand Guignol variety.\" Terry Lawson of the \"Dayton Daily News\" was critical of the performances, particularly the English actors' attempts at portraying an American accent, adding that the film \"invites comment as much for its oddness as for its awfulness.\"\n\nThe film currently holds a 0% approval rating on aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes. AllMovie wrote, \"\"Slaughter High\" gets a passing grade for the die-hard genre fans, but is worthless for most any other audience.\"\n\n\"Slaughter High\" was released as \"April Fool's Day\" on VHS in Japan by Vestron International and on DVD in the United Kingdom by Arrow Video. To date, these are the only countries to have a home-video release of the film under its original title. \n\nThe film was released by Lionsgate on April 15, 2009 on DVD as part of their 'Lost Collection', which contains unrated Vestron full-screen VHS master print. It was re-released on January 4, 2011 in a '4-Film Collection' set along with \"My Best Friend Is a Vampire\", \"Repossessed\" and \"\". Arrow Video released a 'Special Edition' DVD in the United Kingdom in July 2011. Lionsgate released the film on DVD in 2012 in an eight horror film DVD set which also includes \"Class of 1999\", \"Waxwork\", \"976-Evil II\", \"The Unholy\", \"C.H.U.D. II\", \"\" and \"Chopping Mall\".\n\nUnder the new Vestron Video Collector's Series line, Lionsgate released the film for the first time on Blu-ray on October 31, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "23159447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23159447", "title": "Spiru Haret University", "text": "Spiru Haret University\n\nThe Spiru Haret University is a private university in Bucharest, Romania, founded in 1991 by the president of Tomorrow's Romania Foundation, Aurelian Gh. Bondrea, as part of the teaching activities of this foundation. The university claims this has been done according to the model used by Harvard University. The university bears the name of a scientist and reformer of the Romanian education, Spiru Haret, who lived before the Great War.\n\nOn February 14, 2000, the university was accredited by the National Council of Academic Evaluation and Accreditation of Higher Education Institutions. The establishment of the university was confirmed by Law no. 443 of July 5, 2002 and this law has not been abolished.\n\nAccording to the data published by the university in July 2010, it has 30 faculties with 49 specializations and 64 master's degree curricula, being according to the newspaper \"Financiarul\" the largest university in Romania. In 2009 enrollment was reported as 311,928 students. Referring to the number of its students, the newspaper mistakenly called it the largest university in the world. It is the second-largest private university in the world, after Islamic Azad University (with 1.3 million students).\n\nPope John Paul II and a former Romanian president, Ion Iliescu, have received honorary doctorates from the university.\n\nIn 2011, the Spiru Haret University was officially evaluated as an \"education-centered university\", which is the third and lowest educational quality category of the Romanian universities. Education centered universities have lost the right of organizing new Master's and doctorate degrees studies. In July 2017, Spiru Haret University ranked on the 27th place out of 103 other universities in Romania.\n\nMany of the Spiru Haret University graduates became successful in the fields of law, education, architecture, banking and business. Most of the Romanian teachers, teaching in both private and public schools and one third of the registered lawyers in Romania are graduates of Spiru Haret University.\n\n\nDepartment for Teachers' Training\n\nSpiru Haret University is a member of the following European and international organizations:\n\n\nAlthough it received accreditation from Romania's National Council of Academic Evaluation in 2002, its accreditations were canceled for a large number of distance learning specializations. Also, there are some voices which dispute the level of the distance learning programs offered. The scandal peaked in the summer of 2009, when the way license diplomas are obtained scandalized the Minister of Education, who threatened with an inquiry of the Romanian public prosecutors.\n\nA number of Romanian newspapers have called the distance learning department of Spiru Haret University \"a diploma mill\" (literally translated, \"a diplomas factory\"). This viewpoint has been confirmed by the Austrian Der Standard and by the Swiss Neue Zürcher Zeitung. The German Consulate in Romania (Timişoara) mentioned worries in respect to the legal situation of the university in its press review. The French journal Le Monde has confirmed the viewpoint of the quoted newspapers. Some English language sources (e.g. from the Romanian newspaper Evenimentul Zilei and Radio Romania International) express the same view. Therefore, the Spiru Haret University is increasingly considered in Romania and outside it as a diploma mill. Its lawyers seek to circumvent Romanian education laws, and this implied the consequence that new laws are discussed by the Romanian Department of Education, Research and Innovation, which may lead to the prohibition of all Spiru Haret's activities.\nSpiru Haret University claims to be accredited by the European University Association (EUA) instead of the Romanian public agency ARACIS. However, the EUA does not accredit universities and its \"evaluations are not related to accreditation or certification processes.\" This viewpoint is confirmed by an IEP report: \"the Programme is neither linked to the allocation of funds nor to a control function on behalf of public authorities.\"\n\nThe Spiru Haret University has been prohibited to organize license (diploma) exams for a period of three years. During these three years, Spiru Haret University has been placed under the scrutiny of the Romanian Department of Education. According to Government Decision no. 749/2009, Civil Law Sentence no. 3326 has radiated the Spiru Haret University, at its own request, from the application of Government Decision no. 676/2007 regarding the license university study fields, the structures of higher education institutions and the disciplines organized by them, with the subsequent additions and from Government Decision no. 635/2008 regarding the structures of higher education and the specialization/curricula for university license studies organized by them, either accredited or temporarily authorized to operate, republished. The students enlisted at accredited/authorized faculties from the Spiru Haret University may still proceed with their study, but will have to take (final) diploma exams at recognized universities (faculties) which are not prohibited to hold diploma exams.\n\nThe Romanian Department of Education has won the case against the claims of the Spiru Haret University in respect to Government Decisions no. 676/2007 and no. 635/2008, as the High Court of Cassation and Justice decided on October 30, 2009. As such, the self-removal the university from the application of such decisions is null and void, therefore its authorized/accredited curricula remain authorized/accredited, but all other claims of broader accreditation made in the name operating according to its constitutional right to academic autonomy have been dropped, since this right may only be exercised as provided by law. The Director of the Law and Control Direction of the Romanian Department of Education, Mr. Gabriel Ispas claimed that \"Since we have won this trial, we cannot lose the subsequent trials.\"\n\nThe Government Decision no. 749/2009 has been reconsidered in Government Decision no. 943/2009. On November 10, 2009, at the Bucharest Appeal Court was registered at its office of the clerk the certificate in the Dossier no. 7174/2/2009, suspending the application of the Government Decisions no. 749/2009 and no. 943/2009 at the request of the Spiru Haret University, until judgment was pronounced in this case. The university called for being paid damages by the Romanian government and personally by the clerks who wrote the Government Decision no. 749/2009. In this trial, the significant difference in respect to the previous High Court trial is that the government did not list the Spiru Haret University in the Government Decision no. 749/2009, considering that this university does not want to be listed therein (according to the verdict of the Bucharest Court of Appeal which was canceled after the publication of the Government Decisions no. 749/2009), and listed it again in Government Decision no. 943/2009, when reconsidering Government Decision no. 749/2009, as demanded by the university, which has won a trial in this respect. Such government decisions are the official lists of all accredited/authorized Romanian curricula in a certain year. No other curriculum than those listed therein may issue a license diploma, and no other curriculum counts as higher education study (legally).\n\nThe Bucharest Court of Appeal reached a verdict on June 29, 2010 about the Government Decisions no. 749/2009 and no. 943/2009. The verdict of the Bucharest Court of Appeal rejects the action of the university because of having no ground and admits the request for intervention made by the Department of Education. Even if the Department of Education could not have predicted the verdict, the Romanian High Court of Justice and Cassation had registered the recourse made by the Romanian Department of Education in respect to the decision of the Bucharest Court of Appeal in the same dossier while its trial was still pending. Although the Department of Education has not fully lost the case judged by Bucharest Court of Appeal, it made recourse to the High Court and the university had there an opportunity to ask for the cancellation of the verdict of the Bucharest Court of Appeal by the High Court of Cassation and Justice. The Department of Education has won this trial, Decision no. 5565/14.12.2010 the High Court rejecting the request for suspending the execution of the administrative decision which the university has tried to cancel.\n\nAlso, this university is involved in administrative litigation against the Romanian Agency for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ARACIS), the verdict having been pronounced on July 1, 2010. In this case also the action of the university was rejected because of having no ground; recourse is possible. The university has claimed that Government Ordinance no. 10/2009 would be unconstitutional and the Bucharest Court of Appeal suspended judgment upon this issue until the Constitutional Court will take a decision in respect to the claimed exception of unconstitutionality. On December 16, 2010 the Constitutional Court has rejected the unconstitutionality exception invoked by the university. But, Government Ordinance no. 10/2009 has been abrogated by Law no. 1/2011. On May 17, 2011, the Bucharest Court of Appeal rejected the action of the university as inadmissible; a recourse is possible.\n\nOn June 17, 2010, the Minister Daniel Petru Funeriu signed the Department of Education Order no. 4235/2010, published in Monitorul Oficial no. 421 of June 23, 2010. This order concerns the approval of the methodology for the special monitoring of the “Spiru Haret” University, monitoring which applies three years after the Government Ordinance no. 10/2009 became effective. The order stipulates that Spiru Haret’s exams commissions for graduations have among their members professors/teachers from other universities, which are the representatives of the Romanian Department of Education in this respect. The commissions consist of at least one representative of the Department, the representatives of the Department being 50% of the total number of the members of each exams commission.\n\n“The candidacy dossiers of 63 graduates of the \"Spiru Haret\" University were rejected by the Scholar Inspectorate Prahova” writes Raul Florea in the newspaper Gândul. The Minister Daniel Petru Funeriu announced that the university will be monitored for ten years, and the students which have received fraudulent diplomas will be reexamined.\n\nA new scandal has arisen since the university has renamed its distance learning as “technological centers for accessing the examination platform e-learning”, in order to hide the fact that it cannot offer authorized/accredited distance learning.\n\nThe university has announced that the 2008 and 2009 graduates of its unauthorized and unaccredited curricula will have to repeat the diploma exam in September 2010, at the same university. Mr. Gabriel Ispas has declared on behalf of the Department of Education that this does not imply that their diplomas will be lawfully recognized. According to the minister, an exams session was approved in September in order that the students may have their license exams in accordance with Government Ordinance no. 10/2009 and to the norms for special supervision of the “Spiru Haret” University. But there is no legal proviso which would allow the graduates to take their license exams again, Government Ordinance no. 10/2009 making reference only to the students of this university, thus it makes no reference to its licensed graduates. According to the Address of the Department of Education no. 13265 August 6, 2010, Law no. 84/1995 makes a clear distinction between “graduate” and “graduate with a diploma”, the address of the department being applicable only of “graduates”. Through this address the conditions for lawfully organizing an exams session for “graduates” are made known to the university. This exams session was postponed sine die, since the \"Spiru Haret\" University did not agree with the conditions stipulated by the Department of Education for holding these exams.\n\nA graduate of this university has obtained the right to enjoy the benefits of her diploma by the irrevocable decision of the High Court of Cassation and Justice. It is to be noticed that the High Court did not recognize the validity of her diploma, but only the fact that her diploma has not been canceled by a court of law, and until such thing would happen, Mrs./Ms. Din enjoys the presumption of the legality of her diploma. The annulment of her diploma is possible, but it would require another trial.\n\nAccording to the newspaper Adevărul, several groups of graduates from the Spiru Haret University have organized themselves in order to sue the Department of Education. The personal advisor of the education minister, Mr. Tudorel Urian, said \"We wish them good luck, but this is a problem of those who allowed such exam to take place, it is a problem of the university\".\n\nArt. 120 the Education Law which will has become applicable in 2011 provides that offering diplomas for higher education curricula which are neither accredited nor temporarily authorized (by ARACIS) constitutes the felony of material falsification of official documents, punished according to the penal law. Happily, the law provides only for the future.\n\nThe Minister Daniel Petru Funeriu has declared that the Spiru Haret University will become illegal. \"The new law provides very clearly what happens in such situations: the institution of higher education which has unaccredited curricula automatically becomes illegal and enters into liquidation\" said Funeriu for Bună Ziua Iași, showing that this is of application for any university with unaccredited curricula, not just for the Spiru Haret University. On February 10, 2011 have to have been stopped any specializations and curricula which are neither accredited nor temporarily authorized, according to Art. 361 paragraph 4 of the Law of National Education. The continuation of such curricula causes the liquidation of the university and the criminal responsibility for those guilty of breaking the law.\n\nA graduate of the Spiru Haret University has won a trial against the Department of Education and the County Schools Inspectorate at the Buzău Court. Such decision is not final, being open to a recourse by the Department and/or the Inspectorate.\n\nZiare.com announces that some students who graduated this university in 2009 will finally receive their diplomas (but only some of them, namely those from authorized/accredited studies and frequency forms).\n\nThrough the Decision no. 666 from August 19, 2010, the Superior Council of the Magistrates has noticed that a graduate of the Spiru Haret University who graduated the license exam in law in February 2010 at this university does not have the legal quality of having a license in law, as provided by Art. 14 alin. 2 letter b) of Law no. 303/2004, as such being inadmissible to the National Institute of the Magistrates.\n\nAccording to the newspaper Gândul, the situation of those who graduated unaccredited and unauthorized studies will be decided in September, following a project drawn up by ARACIS and consulting the National Rectors's Council. Funeriu recognized that it applies to several universities and that his department does not have the right to cancel diplomas. In December 2011 the minister has declared that his department prepares an order in order to solve the matter of the graduates of unaccredited and unauthorized studies, but it has to wait for advice from the NRC. The minister hopes that this order will become applicable as soon as possible.\n\nGovernment Ordinance no. 42/2015 regarding the right of graduates to have recognized study papers after finishing unauthorized studies and for punishing educational institutions which teach without authorization provides state recognition for all unauthorized studies from accredited educational institutions, prior to the study year 2011-2012. Such diplomas can be canceled by courts or by the granting institution, according to the law.\n\nIn 2016 the UK National Academic Recognition Information Centre listed Spiru Haret University as a recognised higher education institution without making any distinctions between its full-time and distance learning graduates.\n"}
{"id": "53617407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53617407", "title": "Student and university culture in South Korea", "text": "Student and university culture in South Korea\n\nUniversity culture in South Korea is different from that in other countries, consisting of events such as Student Orientation (OT) and Membership Training (MT), as well as festivals and student clubs.\n\nIn the early 1950s, development of South Korean University was inhibited by the Korean War. At the time, the existence of universities and the lives of students had received many threats. Until the 1960s, the concept of university culture had not been used. After the war was over, universities regained stability.\n\nAround university towns, a unique and special culture unique to Korea has developed. South Korean university students usually enjoy doing activities in groups. For example, they would join a club such as dance, do volunteer work, study or travel, and spend a lot of time with other group members. The important aspect is that the student system is well developed and there are a lot of independent student organizations. The organizations host and manage many programs and events so that all students can enjoy university life.\n\nAmong the various university cultures, the typical examples are OT (Student Orientation), MT (Membership Training), School Festivals, and Clubs. Events and programs represent university culture in South Korea.\n\nOT is the abbreviation for orientation. It is meant as an introduction for people so that they can understand the system and adapt to the new surroundings.\n\nNowadays it is generally known as a welcoming event for freshman.\n\nNormally, the new lectures in the university start in March, but the university life of freshmen starts in February. There are a lot of events for freshmen held that month. For example, the welcoming event, classmate meeting, junior and senior meeting and so on. Among those things, the most important one is Orientation (a welcoming event). In this event, the freshman can not only make new friends and get to know the seniors, but also get some information about their classes and the university system.\n\nOrientation runs for 2 or 3 days. The student organization rents a large resort and all the students spend time together. The schedule varies at each university. Usually, the orientation introduces the university system and classes, includes some fun games that all students can partake in, or drinking games for the nighttime. The university recommends that freshmen bring some less formal clothes, writing utensils, and washing tools.\n\nFor 2 to 3 days, freshmen can meet thousands of new people including their classmates, seniors, and other different major students. This time is a chance to make a lot of friends very easily and enjoy university life. Otherwise, there aren't many other chances to meet and become friends with upperclassmen. Freshmen don't need to be shy and just need go and make friends! \n\nMT is the abbreviation for Membership Training. It means all same major students from freshman to seniors spending time at same place promoting friendship and harmony.\n\nApril is the unofficial season of MT, one month after the beginning of the semester. April is very warm and a good month to do MT. It is one of the unique things about Korea's university culture that can't be seen in other university cultures. This is one of the aspects many exchange students from abroad appreciate about the Korean student life.\n\nUsually MT runs for 3 days. Same as in the orientation event before, they get organized to rent a big space for all students of the same major.\n\nThe students spend the time cooking and eating food, sleeping and playing some games together. The schedule and program are managed by the student organization. They plan some events and games so that all students can join in and enjoy themselves. There are a lot of games like dodge ball, a speed quiz where the team that can answer the questions the fastest is winner and so on. At night, all the students get together and drink some beer, eat delicious food and play some drinking games.\n\nAfter 3 days, all the students may become close with each other. They also share some good tips for university life or on how to get good grades on the tests. If some text books that student need for class are too expensive, this time is a chance for freshmen to get the books from seniors.\n\nWhile it may sound at first like an event that students go to just in order to play games and drink alcohol, it provides many good opportunities for students to meet their classmates, make new friends and develop a firmer sense of value about their major.\n\nWhen it comes to 'Campus Romance', we can come up with festival. Festivals are named differently, depending on the university's character. Mostly it means all the students get together and have fun. The festival consists of many performances, exhibitions or flea markets.\n\nThe university festival's history dates back to 600 years ago. There were festivals in 'Sungkyunkwan' which was the only national university in the Joseon Dynasty period. At that time, Sungkyunkwan's dormitory was opened and they permitted outsiders to come inside. Not only the students but also their parents, friends, and even relatives could participate in the festival and enjoy the many games and events.\n\nIn the 1970s 'Mask dance', which is part of Korean traditional culture, was popular. Mask dance, Korean wrestling, and tug-of-war were the main events at university festivals. Also, traditional Korean performances or singing performances for political action had a role in the festival to criticize and satirize politics.\n\nIn the 1980s, communal and cultural events like traditional performances, mask dance and tug-of-war were held at the festival called Daedongje which means 'become all-together'. Many academic seminars, mock trials and debates were also held. However, these festivals were sometimes delayed because of frequent demonstrations.\n\nIn the 1990s, many traditional and political things had disappeared from the festival. The events at the festivals had started consisting of celebrity invitation performances, bars, flea markets and so on. The culture started putting more importance on personality and diversity than on the value of community.\n\nIn the 2000s, most university festivals consist of many celebrity performances like Psy, Dynamic Duo, and IU. There are also a lot of bars set up by the students themselves. Not only the school's students but all university students in Korea can participate in and enjoy the festival. At night, some universities invite a club DJ and hold a DJ party.\n\nNormally, the university festivals are held in May for 3 days with many fantastic and enjoyable events.\n\nThere are sub-festivals organized by each department of a university. The festivals usually take place in the spring. The festivals include a range of events such as one-day pubs, quiz games and photo exhibitions.\nStudent dormitories also host student festivals. Gwanaksa, the Seoul National University dormitory, hosts the Hanul Festival at the beginning of each fall semester. Residential dormitory students can enjoy a night at the festival.\nStudent clubs usually take part in the main university festival, but rarely host their own festivals.\n\nMany Korean students join one or more student clubs. Various kinds of student clubs are available to university students. There are volunteer associations, debate clubs, religious clubs, bands and many others. Club activities are an important part of student life in South Korea. Many universities run student clubs for foreign students as well. Amateur orchestra clubs or student bands sometimes hold concerts for the students.\n\nMost universities have a student association that engages with the university administration. Four members of the Student Association at Sungshin Women's University were suspended after raising concerns about monetary dealings made by the university's president, but their suspension was ruled as unfounded in student disciplinary action.\n\nMany accidents occur during student orientation.\n\nIn 2014, nine people were reported dead after a collapsed roof trapped dozens of people at a South Korean university orientation. More than 70 students were injured following the roof collapse.\n\nIn 2015, a first-year female university student fell unconscious after drinking alcohol during a school-organised orientation event for newly enrolled students. She was immediately taken to a nearby hospital, but she remained unconscious.\n\nA bus driver died and 44 students were injured following a bus collapse in 2017. The bus was heading to Wonju for a school orientation.\n\n"}
{"id": "14286247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14286247", "title": "Swiss Music Pedagogic Association", "text": "Swiss Music Pedagogic Association\n\nThe Swiss Music Pedagogic Association (SMPA) (in German \"Schweizerischer Musikpädagogischer Verband (SMPV)\", in French \"Société Suisse de Pédagogie Musicale (SSPM)\", in Italian \"Società Svizzera di Pedagogia Musicale (SSPM)\", in Romansh \"Societad Svizra da Pedagogia Musicala (SSPM)\") is the umbrella organisation of music educators, pedagogues and music teachers in Switzerland.\n\nThe SMPA has been founded in 1893 and nowadays has about 5000 members. It is divided in 21 sections (capital seat in Bern); acting chairman is Jakob Stämpfli.\n\n"}
{"id": "47803500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47803500", "title": "Teastas Eorpach na Gaeilge", "text": "Teastas Eorpach na Gaeilge\n\nThe Teastas Eorpach na Gaeilge (TEG) or \"European Certificate in Irish \" is a set of examinations for adult learners of Irish. TEG is linked to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (Council of Europe, 2001). It examines four skills: speaking, listening, reading and writing. Examinations are currently available at five levels from Beginners 1 (A1) to Advanced 1 (C1) and are run internationally. In 2016 exams were held in Sydney, New York, Ottawa, and nationally in Ireland. There is the option for candidates at all levels to undertake the full examination (Lánchreidiúint) or just the oral examination (partial credit).\nTEG is the first certification system for adult learners of Irish connected with the ALTE examination system / Council of Europe. It has previously developed such a system for the majority of other European languages. This system helps learners to plan their studies and gain recognition for the progress they have made. Another advantage of the system is that it gives educational institutions and employers on language ability of candidates for courses, jobs or promotions. Of particular importance to this since the provisions of the Official Languages Act (2003) in Ireland. The Language Centre in Maynooth is a member of ALTE (Association of Language Testers in Europe), monitors the content and quality of TEG.\n\n"}
{"id": "334420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334420", "title": "Telecommunications device for the deaf", "text": "Telecommunications device for the deaf\n\nA telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) is a teleprinter, an electronic device for text communication over a telephone line, that is designed for use by persons with hearing or speech difficulties. Other names for the device include teletypewriter (TTY), textphone (common in Europe), and minicom (United Kingdom).\n\nThe typical TDD is a device about the size of a typewriter or laptop computer with a QWERTY keyboard and small screen that uses an LED, LCD, or VFD screen to display typed text electronically. In addition, TDDs commonly have a small spool of paper on which text is also printedold versions of the device had only a printer and no screen. The text is transmitted live, via a telephone line, to a compatible device, i.e. one that uses a similar communication protocol.\n\nSpecial telephone services have been developed to carry the TDD functionality even further. In certain countries there are systems in place so that a deaf person can communicate with a hearing person on an ordinary voice phone using a human relay operator. There are also \"carry-over\" services, enabling people who can hear but cannot speak (\"hearing carry-over,\" a.k.a. \"HCO\"), or people who cannot hear but are able to speak (\"voice carry-over,\" a.k.a. \"VCO\") to use the telephone.\n\nThe term TDD is sometimes discouraged because people who are deaf are increasingly using mainstream devices and technologies to carry out most of their communication. The devices described here were developed for use on the partially-analog Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). They do not work well on the new internet protocol (IP) networks. Thus as society increasingly moves toward IP based telecommunication, the telecommunication devices used by people who are deaf will not be TDDs. In the US for example, the use of the term TDD is discouraged to avoid confusion with these partly-analog devices being referred to as TTYs.\n\nTeletype Corporation, of Skokie, Illinois, made page printers for text, notably for news wire services and telegrams, but these used standards different from those for deaf communication, and although in quite widespread use, were technically incompatible. Furthermore, these were sometimes referred to by the \"TTY\" initialism, short for \"Teletype\". When computers had keyboard input mechanisms and page printer output, before CRT terminals came into use, Teletypes were the most widely used devices. They were called \"console typewriters\". (Telex used similar equipment, but was a separate international communication network.)\n\nThe TDD concept was developed by James C. Marsters (1924–2009), a dentist and private airplane pilot who became deaf as an infant because of scarlet fever, and Robert Weitbrecht, a deaf physicist. In 1964, Marsters, Weitbrecht and Andrew Saks, an electrical engineer and grandson of the founder of the Saks Fifth Avenue department store chain, founded APCOM (Applied Communications Corp.), located in the San Francisco Bay area, to develop the acoustic coupler, or modem; their first product was named the PhoneType. APCOM collected old teleprinter machines (TTYs) from the Department of Defense and junkyards. Acoustic couplers were cabled to TTYs enabling the AT&T standard Model 500 telephone to couple, or fit, into the rubber cups on the coupler, thus allowing the device to transmit and receive a unique sequence of tones generated by the different corresponding TTY keys. The entire configuration of teleprinter machine, acoustic coupler, and telephone set became known as the TTY. Weitbrecht invented the acoustic coupler modem in 1964. The actual mechanism for TTY communications was accomplished electro-mechanically through frequency shift keying (FSK) allowing only half-duplex communication, where only one person at a time can transmit.\n\nDuring the late 1960s, Paul Taylor combined Western Union Teletype machines with modems to create teletypewriters, known as TTYs. He distributed these early, non-portable devices to the homes of many in the deaf community in St. Louis, Missouri. He worked with others to establish a local telephone wake-up service. In the early 1970s, these small successes in St. Louis evolved into the nation's first local telephone relay system for the deaf.\n\nIn 1973, the Manual Communications Module (MCM), which was the world's first electronic portable TTY allowing two-way telecommunications, premiered at the California Association of the Deaf convention in Sacramento, California. The battery-powered MCM was invented and designed by a deaf news anchor and interpreter, Kit Patrick Corson, in conjunction with Michael Cannon and physicist Art Ogawa. It was manufactured by Michael Cannon's company, Micon Industries, and initially marketed by Kit Corson's company, Silent Communications. In order to be compatible with the existing TTY network, the MCM was designed around the five-bit Baudot code established by the older TTY machines instead of the ASCII code used by computers. The MCM was an instant success with the deaf community despite the drawback of a $599 cost. Within six months there were more MCMs in use by the deaf and hard of hearing than TTY machines. After a year Micon took over the marketing of the MCM and subsequently concluded a deal with Pacific Bell (who coined the term \"TDD\") to purchase MCMs and rent them to deaf telephone subscribers for $30 per month.\n\nAfter Micon formed an alliance with APCOM, Michael Cannon (Micon), Paul Conover (Micon), and Andrea Saks (APCOM) successfully petitioned the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), resulting in a tariff that paid for TTY devices to be distributed free of cost to deaf persons. Micon produced over 1,000 MCMs per month, resulting in approximately 50,000 MCMs being disseminated into the deaf community.\n\nBefore he left Micon in 1980, Michael Cannon developed several computer compatible variations of the MCM and a portable, battery operated printing TTY, but they were never as popular as the original MCM. Newer model TTYs could communicate with selectable codes that allow communications at a higher bit rate on those models similarly equipped. However, the lack of true computer interface functionality spelled the demise of the original TTY and its clones. During the mid-1970s, other so-called portable telephone devices were being cloned by other companies, and this was the time period when the term \"TDD\" began being used largely by those outside the deaf community.\n\nIn 2009, AT&T received the James C. Marsters Promotion Award from TDI (formerly Telecommunications for the Deaf, Inc.) for its efforts to increase accessibility to communication for people with disabilities. The award holds some irony; it was AT&T that, in the 1960s, resisted efforts to implement TTY technology, claiming it would damage its communication equipment. In 1968, The Federal Communications Commission struck down AT&T's policy and forced it to offer TTY access to its network.\n\nThere are many different standards for TDDs and textphones.\n\nThe original standard used by TTYs is a variant of the Baudot code. The maximum speed of this protocol is 10 characters per second. This is a half-duplex protocol, which means that only one person at a time may transmit characters. If both try to transmit at the same time, the characters will be garbled on the other end.\n\nThis protocol is commonly used in the United States.\n\nThis is a variant of the Baudot code, implemented as 5-bits per character transmitted asynchronously using frequency shift key-modulation at either 45.5 or 50 baud, 1 start bit, 5 data bits, and 1.5 stop bits. Details of the protocol implementation are available in TIA-825-A and also in T-REC V.18 Annex A \"5-bit operational mode\".\n\nThe UltraTec company implements another protocol known as Enhanced TTY, which it calls \"Turbo Code,\" in its products. Turbo Code has some advantages over Baudot protocols, such as a higher data rate, full ASCII compliance, and full-duplex capability. However, Turbo Code is proprietary, and UltraTec gives its specifications only to parties who are willing to license it, although some information concerning it is disclosed in .\n\nOther protocols used for text telephony are European Deaf Telephone (EDT) and dual-tone multi-frequency signaling (DTMF).\n\nThe ITU V series recommendations are a collection of early modem standards approved by the ITU in 1988.\n\n\nIn 1994, the ITU approved the V.18 standard, which comprises two major parts, a dual standard. It is both an umbrella protocol that allows recognition and interoperability of some of the most commonly used textphone protocols, as well as offering a native V.18 mode, which is an ASCII full- or half-duplex modulation method.\n\nComputers can, with appropriate software and modem, emulate a V.18 TTY. Some voice modems, coupled with appropriate software, can now be converted to TTY modems by using a software-based decoder for TTY tones. Same can be done with such software using a computer's sound card, when coupled to the telephone line.\n\nIn the UK, a virtual V.18 network, called TextDirect, exists as part of the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), thereby offering interoperability between textphones using different protocols. The platform also offers additional functionality like call progress and status information in text and automatic invocation of a relay service for speech-to-text calls.\n\nMany digital cell phones are compatible with TTY devices.\n\nMany people want to replace TTY with real-time text over IP (RTT), which can be used on a digital cell phone or tablet without a separate TTY device.\n\nAs TDDs are increasingly considered legacy devices, with the emergence of modern technologies such as email, texting and instant messaging, text from TDD are increasingly being sent over Text over IP gateways, or other real-time text protocols. However, these newer methods require IP connections and will not work with regular analog phone lines, unless a data connection is used (i.e. dial-up Internet, or the modem method of multiplexing text and voice that is done on a Captioned Telephone hardware handset). Because some people have no access to any kind of data connection, and it is not even available in some parts within many countries, TTYs are still the only method for analog landline text phone calls, although TTYs include any device with a suitable modem and software.\n\nIn addition to TDD, there are a number of pieces of equipment that can be coupled to telephones to improve their utility. For those with hearing difficulties the telephone ring and conversation sound level can be amplified or pitch adjusted, ambient noise can also be filtered. The amplifier can be a simple addition or through an inductive coupler to interact with suitable hearing aids. The ring can also be supplemented with extension bells or a visual call indicator.\n\nThere are some etiquette rules that users of TTYs must be aware of. Because of the inability to detect when a person has finished speaking, (and the fact that two people typing will scramble the text on both ends) the term \"Go Ahead\" (GA) is used to denote the end of a turn, and an indication for the other person to begin typing. \n\nCaller A: HELLO JOHN, WHAT TIME WILL YOU BE COMING AROUND TODAY Q GA <br>\nCaller B: HI FRED, I WILL BE AROUND NOON GA <br>\nCaller A: OK, NO PROBLEM, DON'T FORGET TO BRING THE BOOKS AND THE WORK SO FAR GA <br>\nCaller B: WILL DO SK <br>\nCaller A: BYE BYE SKSK\n\nSK is used to allow the users to say their farewells, while SKSK indicates an immediate call hang-up.\n\nCaller A HI, THIS IS JOHN, CAN I ASK WHO IS CALLING? GA <br>\nCaller B HI JOHN, ITS ME FRED, I AM WONDERING WHERE YOU ARE, ITS GETTING LATE TO GO OUT TO THE PUB GA <br>\nCaller A HI FRED, SORRY I DONT THINK I CAN GO GA <br>\nCaller B WHY CANT YOU GO? GA <br>\nCaller A MY WIFE IS NOT FEELING WELL AND I HAVE NO BABYSITTER FOR MY KIDS! GA <br>\nCaller B AWWWW DARN. I WANTED YOU THERE. OH WELL WHAT CAN YOU DO ? GA <br>\nCaller A I KNOW.. I GOTTA GO. THE KIDS NEED ME. SEE YOU AROUND! BYE FOR NOW SK <br>\nCaller B OK NO WORRIES SEE YOU SOON! BYE BYE SK GA <br>\nCaller A SKSK (THE PARTY HAS HUNG UP)\n\nCaller A TXD DIALING.. TXD RING... TXD OPERATOR CONNECTED.. EXPLAINING TEXT RELAY SERVICE. PLEASE WAIT... HI THIS IS JOHN GA <br>\nCaller B HI JOHN ITS ME FRED. I AM WONDERING WHAT YOU ARE DOING TONIGHT? GA <br>\nCaller A HI FRED. I AM THINKING OF HAVING A POKER NIGHT AT MINE, WHAT DO YOU THINK? GA <br>\nCaller B GOOD IDEA, I'LL CALL A FEW MATES TO COME ROUND AND HAVE A GOOD GAME GA <br>\nCaller A OK SEE YOU AT 7PM. BYE BYE SK GA <br>\nCaller B OK SEE YOU AT 7PM BYE BYE SKSKSKSK GA <br>\nCaller A THANK YOU FOR USING TEXT RELAY SERVICE. GOODBYE\n\n\"Note: TTYs use only capital letters except when there are computer screens.\" <br>\n\"Note: In the UK, Text relay service used to be called typetalk (RNID) but have since merged with the phone line using the dialling prefix 18001 (TTY) or the 18002 (voice relay). The emergency line is 18000 (TTY).\n\nOne of the most common uses for a TTY is to place calls to a Telecommunications Relay Service (TRS), which makes it possible for the deaf to successfully make phone calls to users of regular phone systems.\n\nThe voice recognition systems are in limited use, due to problems with the technology. A new development called the captioned telephone now uses voice recognition to assist the human operators. Newer text-based communication methods, such as short message service (SMS), Internet Relay Chat (IRC), and instant messaging have also been adopted by the deaf as an alternative or adjunct to TTY.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36740322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36740322", "title": "The Forbidden Education", "text": "The Forbidden Education\n\nThe Forbidden Education () is an independent documentary released in 2012. The film documents diverse alternative education practices and unconventional schools in Latin America and Spain and includes educational approaches such as popular education, Montessori, progressive education, Waldorf, homeschooling.\n\nIt became the first released movie in Spanish to be funded under a crowdfunding methodology. It was also highlighted by its distributed screening proposal that enabled a synchronized release in 130 cities in 13 countries with a total number of 18,000 viewers in a single day. One week after its release, the movie was viewed almost 2 millions times.\n\nThe film was released under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license.\n\nThe documentary is divided into 10 thematic episodes, each presenting a different aspect of education in the school context and outside of it. Topics include the history of the school system, authority and power in schools, evaluation and segregation of students, social function of educational institutions, and the role of teachers and families.\n\nThe film has almost 30 minutes of animation and a fictional dramatic story connecting the episodes.\n\nThe movie participated in the following festivals and exhibitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "42411118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42411118", "title": "Thomas Weihs", "text": "Thomas Weihs\n\nThomas Weihs (born 30 April 1914 Vienna (then the Austro-Hungarian Empire), died 19 June 1983 Aberdeen, Scotland) was a doctor, farmer and special needs educator, one of the founders and leading co-workers of the Camphill Movement and a pioneer of Anthroposophical curative education.\nThomas Johannes Weihs was the second child of Gertrude and Richard Weiss (spelling later changed), who had settled in Vienna from Brody in the Ukraine. During his studies in Medicine at the University of Vienna, he met Dr Karl König and became part of a youth group whose members formed the core of what was to become Camphill in Scotland.\n\nBeing of Jewish origin, he fled Austria together with his first wife, Helene Stoll, completed his doctor's degree in Basel, after which, at the outbreak of World War II he joined Dr König and the others in Scotland. Near Aberdeen, on Camphill estate, they founded the work in curative education for those they called \"children in need of special care,\" which was to occupy him for the rest of his life. He had a number of children with Helene, one of whom, Christine Polyblank, founded the Ringwood Waldorf School.\n\nAs Camphill grew, so his responsibilities increased, ranging from farming and general handyman to doctor, educator, lecturer and writer. In 1957 he was appointed Superintendent of the Camphill work by Dr König. He had, by this time, also established a thriving practice as a doctor, including working at Dr. König's own London practice. At the same time he travelled widely, lecturing at Camphill centres throughout the world as well as to the general public. It was in this manner that he met BBC film director Jonathan Stedall, then 28 and taking a year off to study at Emerson College. Their collaboration led to the numerous films for British television that Stedall made on Camphill such as \"Candle on the Hill\".\n\nWeihs’ best-known work, the book \"Children in Need of Special Care\", was published in 1971 and has since been reprinted on several occasions and translated into 14 languages.\n\nHis final work, \"Embryogenesis in Myth and Science\", was completed on his deathbed and published posthumously.\n\nBesides this, his work as sculptor led to a considerable number of pieces set up all over the various farms and public buildings of Camphill.\n\n1967–68 in Need of Special Care (BBC2 2 × 60'):\n\n\n1973\n\n\n1990\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29019379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29019379", "title": "USC School of Dramatic Arts", "text": "USC School of Dramatic Arts\n\nThe USC School of Dramatic Arts (SDA) (formerly the USC School of Theatre) is the dramatic arts school at the University of Southern California. It is ranked one of the top 10 dramatic arts schools in the world, according to The Hollywood Reporter's Top 25 Drama Schools. The USC School of Dramatic Arts offers Bachelor of Arts degrees in theatre and visual & performing arts; Bachelor of Fine Arts degrees in acting, design, sound design, stage management and technical direction; and Master of Fine Arts degrees in acting and dramatic writing.\n\nFounded in 1945 as \"Department of Drama at USC\", it became an independent school in 1991 and was named \"USC School of Theatre\".\nIt was renamed USC School of Dramatic Arts on July 1, 2012. \n\n\n\n\nThe School of Dramatic Arts presents more than 20 theatrical shows annually that showcase the works of the students in acting, stage management, lighting design, set design, costume design, technical direction and more.\n\n"}
{"id": "5689246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5689246", "title": "University charter", "text": "University charter\n\nUniversity charter is a charter given by provincial, state, regional, and sometimes national governments to legitimize the university's existence.\n\nIn most Canadian provinces university charters are in the form of Acts (e.g. York University Act). \"The Royal Military College of Canada Degrees Act\" of 1959 enables the Royal Military College of Canada in Kingston, Ontario to offer degrees in Arts, Science, and Engineering at the undergraduate and graduate levels.\n\nIn the United States, American University, Gallaudet University, Georgetown University, Howard University, and George Washington University are the only Congressionally chartered universities, due to their location within the US's federal district.\n\nThe United States service (military) academies are not chartered as they are agencies of the federal government itself.\n\nOther universities are chartered by the colonial governments or by state legislatures.\n"}
{"id": "47584561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47584561", "title": "Vedantu", "text": "Vedantu\n\nVedantu is an interactive online tutoring platform where teachers provide school tuitions to students over the internet, using a real-time virtual learning environment named WAVE (Whiteboard Audio Video Environment), a technology built in-house. Vedantu is said to operate on a marketplace model for teachers, where students can browse, discover and choose to learn from an online tutor of their choice. It primarily provides these services to students in class 4th to 12th for Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) & Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) curriculum throughout India and the Middle East. Currently the company is into live online tutoring in science (Physics, Chemistry, Biology), English, Mathematics, Hindi, Sanskrit, German, French, Environmental Science, Computer Science and Social Science. It also claims to provide test preparation courses for Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Foundation, National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) and Problem Solving Assessment (PSA). In addition, it also provides courses for International Mathematics Olympiad and National Science Olympiad.\n\nIncorporated in 2011, Bangalore-based Vedantu Innovations Pvt. Ltd. is an online tutoring platform launched in October 2014 for public. The company’s name Vedantu is said to be derived from Sanskrit words Veda-knowledge and Tantu-network. The organization is run by four friends from Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) – Vamsi Krishna (Co-Founder, CEO), Pulkit Jain (Co-Founder, Head Product), Saurabh Saxena (Co-Founder, Head Academics) and Anand Prakash (Co-Founder). Vedantu is their second venture after Lakshya, a test preparation coaching company. Lakshya was acquired by a public listed company, MT Educare in the year 2012.\n\nIn September 2017, it was announced that was Vedantu was to host the second edition of International Student League (ISL) in November 2017.\n\nThe firm has raised its first round of funding after six months of current operational format. It has raised $5 million from Accel Partners and Tiger Global Management in its Series A funding.\n\nVedantu plans to utilize the funding in developing technology solutions for tablets and mobile with scalability which can run hundreds of live learning sessions concurrently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32493", "title": "Vernor Vinge", "text": "Vernor Vinge\n\nVernor Steffen Vinge (; born October 2, 1944) is an American science fiction author and retired professor. He taught mathematics and computer science at San Diego State University. He is the originator of the technological singularity concept and perhaps the first to present a fictional \"cyberspace\". He has won the Hugo Award for his novels and novellas \"A Fire Upon the Deep\" (1992), \"A Deepness in the Sky\" (1999), \"Rainbows End\" (2006), \"Fast Times at Fairmont High\" (2002), and \"The Cookie Monster\" (2004).\n\nVinge published his first short story, \"Bookworm, Run!\", in the March 1966 issue of \"Analog Science Fiction\", then edited by John W. Campbell. The story explores the theme of artificially augmented intelligence by connecting the brain directly to computerised data sources. He became a moderately prolific contributor to SF magazines in the 1960s and early 1970s. In 1969, he expanded the story \"Grimm's Story\" (\"Orbit 4\", 1968) into his first novel, \"Grimm's World\". His second novel, \"The Witling\", was published in 1975.\n\nVinge came to prominence in 1981 with his novella \"True Names\", perhaps the first story to present a fully fleshed-out concept of cyberspace, which would later be central to cyberpunk stories by William Gibson, Neal Stephenson and others. His next two novels, \"The Peace War\" (1984) and \"Marooned in Realtime\" (1986), explore the spread of a future libertarian society, and deal with the impact of a technology which can create impenetrable force fields called 'bobbles'. These books built Vinge's reputation as an author who would explore ideas to their logical conclusions in particularly inventive ways. Both books were nominated for the Hugo Award, but lost to novels by William Gibson and Orson Scott Card.\n\nVinge won the Hugo Award (tying for Best Novel with \"Doomsday Book\" by Connie Willis) with his 1992 novel, \"A Fire Upon the Deep\". \"A Deepness in the Sky\" (1999) was a prequel to \"Fire\", following competing groups of humans in The Slow Zone as they struggle over who has the rights to exploit a technologically emerging alien culture. \"Deepness\" won the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 2000.\n\nHis novellas \"Fast Times at Fairmont High\" and \"The Cookie Monster\" also won Hugo Awards in 2002 and 2004, respectively.\n\nVinge's 2006 novel \"Rainbows End\", set in the same universe and featuring some of the same characters as \"Fast Times at Fairmont High\", won the 2007 Hugo Award for Best Novel. In 2011, he released \"The Children of the Sky\", a sequel to \"A Fire Upon the Deep\" set approximately 10 years following the end of \"A Fire Upon the Deep\".\n\nVinge retired in 2000 from teaching at San Diego State University, in order to write full-time. Most years, since its inception in 1999, Vinge has been on the Free Software Foundation's selection committee for their Award for the Advancement of Free Software. Vernor Vinge was Writer Guest of Honor at ConJosé, the 60th World Science Fiction Convention in 2002.\n\nHis former wife, Joan D. Vinge, is also a science fiction author. They were married from 1972 to 1979.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19169390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19169390", "title": "You Suck At Photoshop (web series)", "text": "You Suck At Photoshop (web series)\n\nYou Suck At Photoshop is a series of online Photoshop tutorials with adult-themed humor designed by Matt Bledsoe and Troy Hitch of the Big Fat Institute for Advanced Interactive Design; hosted at My Damn Channel. The show started as a one-off parody of instructional videos and became popular almost overnight; since its debut in December 2007, the first episode alone has received over 4.7 million views on YouTube, over 600,000 on My Damn Channel, and garnered national attention in Time Magazine.\n\nEpisodes typically star fictional Photoshop user Donnie Hoyle, who demonstrates tools and techniques in Photoshop, usually on a Macintosh computer. Donnie is a person with severe and chronic personal problems relating to his job, his relationships and disintegrating marriage; various legal problems, career and emotional problems; which tend to weave themselves into the narrative to dark comedic effect. Each episode's title card is further distinguished by a different misspelling which can be interpreted as part of the joke of each episode or is spelled so as to suggest an off-color reference. Further clues to Donnie's state of mind can probably be inferred from the ever-changing desktop wallpaper seen during the demonstration.\n\nDespite Donnie's rather intractable life problems, he does manage to demonstrate Photoshop CS3 tools and techniques, such as selecting via Color Range, Curves, and Vanishing Point.\n\nOriginally intended as a one-off series, \"YSAP\" went into a second season due to fan demand.\n\nThe series went into its second season on My Damn Channel on 27 June 2008, and ended on 31 October 2008. The series has had two spinoffs, a five-episode My Damn Channel series known as \"Sn4tchbuckl3r's Second Chance\", and \"You Suck At Photoshop (TOP SECRET EDITION!)\", in which Donnie creates his Photoshop will.\n\nThe series restarted unofficially on 4 April 2012 with a spinoff called You Rock At Photoshop, starring Ronnie Cox. On 25 April 2012, the official start of You Suck At Photoshop started.\n\nThe series was awarded two Webby awards; for Best How-To and Best Comedy Series – People's Voice. It also won the Streamy award for Best Artistic Concept in a Web Series.\n\n\nThe creators of the character have this to say about him, from their \"Time\" magazine profile:\n\nAdditional uncredited characters include Donnie's wife (usually heard heckling him in the early episodes), and Donnie's co-workers at Phebco (heard when he had to do a couple of tutorials from his workplace after legal trouble during his divorce caused him to be locked out of his house).\n\nSeason One of \"You Suck at Photoshop\" was presented on My Damn Channel every other week from 21 December 2007 through 4 April 2008. It comprises 10 regular episodes and one season-ending tribute episode. Donnie's life and career trajectory during this series begin with his portrayal as a man who is both desperately unhappy in his job and his marriage, the progress of his life through is divorce and the loss of his job (whether by firing or quitting is not made clear), and his failed attempt to forge another relationship prior to his rather mysterious disappearance at the end of episode 10.\n\n\nSeason Two debuted on My Damn Channel on 27 June 2008, with episode #11, and new episodes being released once every other week on Friday. As before, Donnie is at war with his lifestyle and the results of the life choices he's made. Despite his apparent sojourn to Peopleburg (as detailed in the short series \"Sn4tchbuckl3r's Second Chance\" and the placidity of his attitude in episode #10, he is just as stressed and anxious as he was before. The trajectory of this season starts with a losing paternity battle, the losing of which incites Donnie to do something incredibly stupid involving Thai thumb drives and a NERF jart that invoking Stephen Baldwin can't even save him from, and an apparent cross-country flight from Ricky (aka. the guy \"drilling\" his wife in the Vanagon in episode 1). Sna4tchbuckl3r and Sandy make returns to the storyline.\n\n\nAs of 4 April 2012, My Damn Channel has started showing You Suck At Photoshop series, beginning with an offshoot series called You Rock At Photoshop, starting 4-year-old Ronnie Cox, the possible estranged child of Donnie Hoyle. The offshoot series tends to mimic the original in a happier tone voiced by little Ronnie. Following the first episode, two videos affidavits by Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj, the legal representative of the \"late\" Donnie Hoyle estate, notifying My Damn Channel that they were in violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for the blatant copy.\n\nThe second episode of the You Rock At Photoshop started the same as the second episode of You Suck At Photoshop, but involving removing a robot instead of a cat. During the video, Ronnie Cox received a Skype message from Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj regarding how Robert was just attacked by a horde of 4-year-old children which he believed were sent to attack him by Ronnie. During the Skype call, you could hear a group of 4-year-olds breaking into the room where Robert was.\n\nThere was a third affidavit by Robery Davis-Brockweilder Munghj, where he appeared beaten, bounded and his head was covered. In this video he made mention that Donnie Hoyle was alive and he would return. Soon after, the sounds of 4-year-olds entering the room and attacking Robert occurred.\n\nOn 25 April 2012, the third season of You Suck At Photoshop started, with Donnie Hoyle creating an advertisement for Robert Davis-Brockweilder Munghj as payment for his services.\n\n"}
