{"id": "47216796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47216796", "title": "Abdul Latif Galadari", "text": "Abdul Latif Galadari\n\nAbdul Latif Galadari (born on 1939) is the youngest son of Ebrahim Galadari. The late Abdul Latif, along with his elder brother, Abdul Rahim, who died in 1994, headed the Galadari Group, which was involved in a variety of industrial and business activities. He along with his brother created a new wave of companies.\n\nAbdul Latif Galadari was born in 1939, as the youngest son of Ebrahim Galadari and grandson of merchant Hassan Galadari. The business tradition stretched as far back as his grandfather, Hassan Galadari, who was a businessman in 1879.As a young man, Abdul Latif Galadari studied in Beirut Lebanon.\n\nThe Galadari Brother’s Group was fuelled initially by the entrepreneurial vision of the late Abdul Rahim E. Galadari, the late Abdul Latif E. Galadari, and the late Abdul Wahab E. Galadari in the early 1960s.This group created a new wave of companies and furthered the entrepreneurial vision to the family business. The three brothers were also involved in the gold business, which had made them multimillionaires by the 1970s. It was from this generation that another three brothers created the Ilyas & Mustafa Galadari Group, started by Ilyas & Mustafa Galadari, as well as Galadari Investment Office, formed by their younger brother Rashid A.W. Galadari. Abdul Latif Galadari and his two brothers were well placed to take advantage of Dubai's 1970s Oil Boom. Together they started a major conglomerate, building the Intercontinental Hotel, opening Dubai Bank, establishing a Mazda Vehicle Dealership, starting Dubai's first English Language Daily Newspaper - the Khaleej Times - and opening a string of construction, engineering, and trading companies.\n\nHe also started GICC,which is the flagship company of the Galadari Brothers Group. GICC is the master franchisee for the Baskin-Robbins brand in the GCC, and is the world's largest franchisee for Baskin-Robbins with close to 700 stores spread across the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman,Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait. GICC has been the first company to introduce an international brand of ice cream in the area and has the largest store network in the Quick Service Restaurants (QSR) industry in the Persian Gulf region.\n\nThe Galadari's wealth is largely invested in real estate, including in the City of Arabia, a 20 million sq.ft.plot on Emirates Road. The land is earmarked for the Mall of Arabia, a project that will see the Galadaris build the largest and most expensive mall in the world.\nThe brothers' other assets include manufacturing concerns, a major taxi firm, a driving school, restaurants, hotels, and Sunseeker Yachts Middle East. They have Galadari Hotel in Sri Lanka. They have already introduced over 30 global brands into the region. And their business is multi-industry, multi-product, multi-service and multi-national, overseeing operations across the Persian Gulf, Asia, and Australia. Until now, the Galadari Brothers have held a significant market share in the industries of Media, Automobiles, Food & Beverage, Industrial and Technical products, Trucks & Heavy Equipment, Engineering, Real Estate and Hospitality.\nFounded by Abdul Rahim and Abdul Latif Ibrahim Galadari in Dubai, the Galadari GroupHead Office remains in its city of origin while conducting activities in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, Sri Lanka, and Australia and employing over 4000 people, from more than 30 nationalities working across the world.\nIn 2015, the Galadari Brothers ranked 27th on Forbes.\nAbdul Latif Galadari died due to a heart attack in Karachi at the age of 62 on March 9, 2002. The body was flown to Dubai and was buried at the Al Qoz graveyard. The funeral was attended by his nephew Mohammed Abdul Rahim Galadari, his son Sohail and members of business community, relatives and friends.\n\n"}
{"id": "52365065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52365065", "title": "Adolf Törngren", "text": "Adolf Törngren\n\nAdolf Törngren (27 April 1824 – 3 March 1895) was a Finnish jurist and industrialist.\n\nTörngren studied law degree, but shortly after he inherited significant property and became industrialist. Törngren operated Nuutajärvi glassworks and later he had a significant role in industrialisation of Tampere. In 1861 he founded Tampere Linen and Iron Industry Ltd together with Gustaf Wasastjerna. Törngren was co-founder of shipbuilding and engineering company Helsingfors Skeppsdocka in Helsinki. His investments drove him into cash crisis, which caused him bankruptcy.\n\nIn 1877 Törngren founded Tampere Asphalt- and Roof Membrane Works in old groundwood mill premises. While there was demand for such products, the company fell into trouble due to Törngren's optimistic business decisions, and he sold it later.\n\nTörngren's son Adolf Törngren Jr. became a notable politician.\n\nTörngren studied jurisprudence and graduated as jurist in 1845. He got title of varatuomari in 1848. He was his parents' only child who survived after them, and he inherited a large property. Following to death of his mother Eva Agatha in 1849, he inherited Nuutajärvi mansion and started developing it by draining wetlands, acquired Ayrshire cattle and engaged in forestry. The mansion area included also Nuutajärvi glassworks which was at the beginning leased to another operator, but in 1851 Törngren started took lead of the factory. He invested on two new furnaces, grinding shop and porcelain shop, and started pressed glass production first in Finland.\n\nTörngren recruited skilled workforce from abroad to run Nuutajärvi glassworks. One of them was Prussian-born bookkeeper Georg Franz Stockmann, who run Törngren's glassware shop in Helsinki and later developed his own business from it.\n\nIn 1856 Törngren bought an area by lower rapids of Tammerkoski in Messukylä and got permissions for silk and linen manufacturing. As there was no industrial linen production in Finland, it is not known how Törngren got this business idea, but speculatively the initiator was Törngren's wife Sofia. Raw material was widely available, as flax growing was common in Tavastia. However, the factory plan was postponed due to complaints. Törngren met his old friend Gustaf Wasastjerna, who had bought a nearby lot of an old ironworks at other side of the rapids in Tampere and planned to convert it into engineering works. The men decided to start business with joined forces, and Törngren applied for moving the location of his industrial rights to the other side of the river. A five-storey linen factory building was finished already in 1858 and taken into use in the following spring. Törngren's linen mill and Wasastjerna's engineering works were merged in 1861 as Tammerfors Linne- & Jern-Manufaktur Aktie-Bolag (\"Tampere Linen and Iron Industry Ltd\") but kept as separate business units. By the merger the men aimed to attract investors, but eventually they did not manage at gaining more capital because limited company concept was new in Finland, and Törngren and Wasastjerna finally owned 95% of the shares. The business developed favourably and in 1862 the linen mill was with its 755 workers the second biggest factory of Finland after the nearby Finlayson cotton mill.\n\nDuring 1856–1859 Törngren additionally operated small glassworks in Tourula, Yläne. After Törngren's father, Johan Agapetus Törngren died in 1859, he again leased out the Nuutajärvi glassworks and moved to Laukko in Vesilahti, where he could manage his business in Tampere.\n\nTörngren had invested a large sum on Jokioinen baize factory which moved its production to Tampere. When the company bankrupted in 1863, Törngren lost a large part of his property. The prevailing famine further weakened Törngren's affairs.\n\nTörngren left in Helsinki magistrate on 2 August 1864 an application for starting a shipyard and engineering works in Hietalahti. He applied for the premises an area which consisted 12,200 m² land and 9,500 m² water. After an assent of the city elders, Uusimaa Province governor and Senate Manufacturing Board, he was granted the permission for the business on 4 March 1865. Törngren appointed engineer Lieutenant Fridolin Stjernvall to make plans for the yard layout and the construction project was led by engineer Theodor Tallqvist.\n\nTörngren got run out of cash in 1866 and the construction project was halted. By then the costs had reached to 200,000 marks. Törngren made an arrangement in which the company ownership was transferred to Tampere Linen and Iron Industry to which he owed 435,000 marks. The work was continued under the same leadership after the transaction. The management of Tampere Linen and Iron Industry presumably planned selling the yard soon after the construction work was to be finished, but the yard required further large sums of money before becoming operative. The yard was finally sold in 1880 with significant losses.\n\nThe large investments on the shipyard together with the Finnish monetary reform had caused Törngren running out of cash reserves in 1866. Nuutajärvi glassworks and Laukko mansion were sold in an auction and Törngren settled in Helsinki, where he ran a forwarding agency.\n\nAfter Törngren had decided to start business with Wasastjerna, he had sold the lot at Tammerkoski. His wife's younger brother Fredrik Idestam had built there a groundwood mill, which he later moved to Nokia. In 1877 Törngren founded company Tampereen Asfaltti- ja Kattohuopatehdas Oy (\"Tampere Asphalt- and Roof Membrane Works\") that bought the old factory and converted it for asphalt membrane production. Due to new fire protection regulations, the material had high demand and it was applied on roofs in urban areas and railway stations. Törngren grew the business aggressively, and once again fell into financial troubles. He sold the business and moved to Pirkkala, where he developed grain drying concepts, which were granted a patent.\n\nTörngren took part in a Finnish industrial development planning committee, installed by the Senate of Finland in summer 1856. In 1862 Törngren became selected to so-called January Committee by Nobility. During Diet of Finland 1863–1864, he represented his family as member of Estate of Nobles. He had liberal views, and he supported development of railway network. Törngren initiated installing Supreme Court; his proposal was approved, but implemented much later, after the Finnish Declaration of Independence.\n\nTörngren was married in 1849 to daughter of Bergmeister Gustaf Idestam, Sofia Charlotta (1830–1913). Their son Adolf Törngren Jr. became a notable politician. Törngren spent the last years of his life in Haapaniemi Manor, where he died in 1895.\n"}
{"id": "36201582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36201582", "title": "Aleksandar Ehrmann", "text": "Aleksandar Ehrmann\n\nAleksandar Ehrmann (September 14, 1879 – April 13, 1965) was known Croatian industrialist, philanthropist and diplomat.\n\nEhrmann was born in Podbuż (Pidbuzh) in the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria to a wealthy Jewish family of Ignac and Adela (née Liebermann) Ehrmann. He had three brothers, Leon, Oskar and Leopold. The whole Ehrmann family was involved in the wood industry. Inspired by family tradition, from early childhood Ehrmann was prepared for the lead positions in the wood industry, so in the period from 1899 until 1908 he worked at a several prestigious wood processing companies. In the 1899 he started working at the sawmill branch of Freundlich brothers from Munich. In 1901 he moved to Vienna and started working at the prestigious flooring factory of Engel brothers. He stayed in Vienna for two years. From 1907 until 1908 he worked for Budapest wood industry \"Mundus\", which was owned by his family, at the plant in Uzhhorod, in the factory \"Vrata\" in the Gorski Kotar as the chief of supply, and finally at the furniture factory in Varaždin as the chief. In his youth, Ehrmann worked in as many leading wood companies as he could, visited several industrial processing plants, so he could apply that knowledge and experience in his own company.\n\nIn 1916, Ehrmann took over the family wood processing company \"Slavonija\" d.d. from Slavonski Brod, as the owner - general manager, which he led until 1934. The company was founded in 1903 by his brother, Leon. From 1919, together with his brother Oskar, Ehrmann owned and led the furniture company \"Bothe & Ehrmann\" d.d. from Zagreb, which was founded in 1895 by his cousin Samuel Ehrmann and Eugen Ferdinand Bothe. Under Ehrmannn, by 1934, \"Bothe & Ehrmann\" d.d. employed over 500 workers and was the largest furniture company in the Austro-Hungarian Empire. On June 8, 1917 Ehrmann was elected as a Slavonski Brod city councilman, a duty he performed until 1919. Ehrmann was also the general manager of the \"Jugoslavenska šuma\" d.d. from Zagreb, and the wood industry \"Una\" d.d. from Bosanska Dubica. In 1923 he encouraged and initiated the establishment of the \"Wagon, machinery and bridge factory company\" in Slavonski Brod (now \"Đuro Đaković d.d.\") by attracting foreign capital. Ehrmann was the regular member of the \"Industrialists Union\" and \"Commercial Chamber\". On April 30, 1925 Ehrmann was one of the notables who founded \"Aero Club Zagreb\". Ehrmann was also a board member of the Zagreb section of the \"Yugoslav Automobile Club\", and has held senior positions in the club for several terms. Ehrmann was honorary consul of Portugal for 30 years.\n\nWhile living in Varaždin, at the age of 27, Ehrmann meet Dora (née Wilczek), the daughter of a wealthy Jewish entrepreneur Albert Wilczek and his wife Elizabeth née Deutsch. They married on December 22, 1907, at the Varaždin synagogue. After wedding, Ehrmann moved with his wife to Slavonski Brod, where his company was located. In 1909 their oldest daughter Ada was born. In 1912 Ehrmann family moved to Zagreb. In 1913 their second daughter Hedi was born, and in 1916 son Leon. In April 1918, Ehrmann moved with his family to Budapest, and in March 1919 they returned to Zagreb. Given the fact that Ehrmann family permanently settled in Zagreb, in 1922 architect Viktor Kovačić built the villa for the Ehrmann family which was located at Jurjevska ulica 23. Ehrmann and his family were known philanthropists who aided the poor and needy, city of Zagreb, various Catholic and Jewish organizations, Red Cross Croatia and others. On May 16, 1926 Ehrmann bought a castle, from Ljudevit Erdödy, in Jastrebarsko with the whole estate and hunting ground for the amount of 2,5 million dinars. Ehrmann had invested a large sum of funds on the castle reconstruction, which was in poor condition.\n\nDuring World War II, with the Independent State of Croatia regime in power, Ehrmann and his family were required to submit mandatory application of wealth to the office for the Jews at Ministry of Public economy. Ante Pavelić ordered that Ehrmann is to be treated as the representative of Portugal in Croatia. Ehrmann helped Jews escape the Independent State of Croatia, by issuing them visas for Portugal. His son Leon was jailed in Nazi Germany as an officer of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia army, and his daughter Ada escaped to Split with her husband Julius Weinreb, which was under Fascist Italy occupation. During the war, Ehrmann helped, protected and saved the victims of the Nazi terror. From 1939 to 1942 he also gave considerable sums of money for the fight against the Nazis.\n\nAfter the war, although anti-fascist, Ehrmann was a class enemy of the newly established SFR Yugoslavia. Ehrmann right to a pension was not recognized, and his wealth and properties were not returned to him. He lived, with his wife, modestly until his death on April 13, 1965, in Zagreb. He was buried in the family grave at Mirogoj Cemetery arcades.\n\n"}
{"id": "41565686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41565686", "title": "Andreas Fredrik Falkenberg", "text": "Andreas Fredrik Falkenberg\n\nAndreas Fredrik Falkenberg (13 March 1875 – 1957) is a Norwegian engineer, businessperson and politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Bergen as a son of school headmaster Andreas Fredrik Falkenberg (1842–1875) and Anne Marie Wathne (1848–1922). He attended Bergen Cathedral School. In 1893 he graduated from Bergen Technical School, and in 1895 from the electrotechnical school Montefiore Institute in Liège. In 1898 he married photographer's daughter Anna Dorothea von der Fehr.\n\nIn 1897 he was hired as a manager in Bergen's Electric Tramway. In 1914 he moved to Eastern Norway to hold the same position in Oslo Tramway, and from 1924 to 1940 he was the chief executive of Bærumsbanen.\n\nHe was an elected member of Bergen city council from 1908 to 1913, the first term in the executive committee. From 1909 to 1910 he chaired the local Conservative party branch. He chaired \"Norske Elektrisitetsverkers Forening\" from 1918 to 1921, the Norwegian Polytechnic Society from 1918 to 1922, \"Kongelig Norsk Motorbåtforbund\" from 1920 to 1923 and Kongelig Norsk Automobilklub from 1933 to 1940.\n\nHe was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of Vasa. He died in 1957.\n"}
{"id": "20536861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20536861", "title": "Barbary Coast Trail", "text": "Barbary Coast Trail\n\nThe Barbary Coast Trail is a walking tour connecting 20 historic sites and local history museums in San Francisco, California. Approximately 180 bronze medallions and arrows embedded in the sidewalk mark the 3.8-mile (6.1 km) trail.\n\nThe historic sites of the Barbary Coast Trail relate primarily to the period from the California Gold Rush of 1849 to the Earthquake and Fire of 1906, a period when San Francisco grew from a small village to the busiest port on the West Coast.\n\nSites along the trail include the Old Mint, a national historic landmark; Union Square; Maiden Lane; Old St. Mary's, first Catholic cathedral West of the Rockies; T'ien Hou temple, first Asian temple in North America; Wells Fargo History Museum; Pony Express headquarters site; Jackson Square Historic District, which contains the last cluster of Gold Rush and Barbary Coast-era buildings in San Francisco; Old Ship Saloon, once a shanghaiing den; Coit Tower; Fisherman's Wharf; SF Maritime National Historical Park, which maintains a large collection of historic ships; and Ghirardelli Square.\n\nEach end of the Barbary Coast Trail is connected by the Hyde-Powell cable car line, itself a national historic landmark.\n\nThe Barbary Coast Trail was founded by historian Daniel Bacon in collaboration with the San Francisco Historical Society. The trail was inaugurated in May 1998 and originally marked with painted images. The first 150 bronze medallions to mark the trail were installed by 2000, with design by Daniel Bacon and illustrator Jim Blair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2883178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2883178", "title": "Black liquor", "text": "Black liquor\n\nIn industrial chemistry, black liquor is the waste product from the kraft process when digesting pulpwood into paper pulp removing lignin, hemicelluloses and other extractives from the wood to free the cellulose fibers.\n\nThe equivalent material in the sulfite process is usually called brown liquor, but the terms red liquor, thick liquor and sulfite liquor are also used.\n\nApproximately 7 tonnes of black liquor are produced in the manufacture of one tonne of pulp.\n\nThe black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin residues, hemicellulose, and the inorganic chemicals used in the process. The black liquor comprises 15% solids by weight of which 10% are organic chemicals and 5% are inorganic chemicals. Normally the organics in black liquor are 40-45% soaps, 35-45% lignin and 10-15% other organics.\n\nThe organic matter in the black liquor is made up of water/alkali soluble degradation components from the wood. Lignin is degraded to shorter fragments with sulphur content at 1-2% and sodium content at about 6% of the dry solids. Cellulose and hemicellulose is degraded to aliphatic carboxylic acid soaps and hemicellulose fragments. The extractives gives tall oil soap and crude turpentine. The soaps contain about 20% sodium.\n\nThe residual lignin components currently serve for hydrolytic or pyrolytic conversion or just burning only. Hemicellulosis may undergo fermentation processes, alternatively.\n\nEarly kraft pulp mills discharged black liquor to watercourses. Black liquor is quite toxic to aquatic life, and causes a very dark caramel color in the water. The invention of the recovery boiler by G.H. Tomlinson in the early 1930s, was a milestone in the advancement of the kraft process.\n\nBy 2000, the better kraft mills recovered 99.5% or more of the black liquor, and purified the remainder in biological treatment plants, reducing the environmental effect of the waste waters below the level of scientific significance, except perhaps in very small streams. Even in the 21st century, some small kraft mills remained (producing at most a few tons of pulp per day) that discharged all black liquor. However, these are rapidly disappearing. Some kraft mills, particularly in North America, still recovered under 98% of the black liquor in 2007, which can cause some environmental contamination, even when biologically treated. The general trend is for such obsolete mills to modernize or shut down.\n\nThe black liquor contains more than half of the energy content of the wood fed into the digester of a kraft pulp mill. It is normally concentrated to 65 - 80% by multi-effect evaporators and burned in a recovery boiler to produce energy and recover the cooking chemicals. The viscosity increases as the concentration goes up. At about 50 - 55% solids the salt solubility limit is reached. Tall oil is an important byproduct separated from the black liquor with skimming before it goes to the evaporators or after the first evaporator stage.\n\nPulp mills have used black liquor as an energy source since at least the 1930s.\nMost kraft pulp mills use recovery boilers to recover and burn much of the black liquor they produce, generating steam and recovering the cooking chemicals (sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfide used to separate lignin from the cellulose fibres needed for papermaking). This has helped paper mills reduce problems with water emissions, reduce their use of chemicals by recovery and reuse, and become nearly energy self-sufficient by producing, on average, 66 percent of their own electricity needs on-site.\n\nIn the United States, paper companies have consumed nearly all of the black liquor they produce since the 1990s. As a result, the forest products industry has become one of the United States' leading generators of carbon-neutral renewable energy, producing approximately 28.5 terawatt hours of electricity annually.\n\nNew waste-to-energy methods to recover and utilize the energy in the black liquor have been developed. The use of black liquor gasification has the potential to achieve higher overall energy efficiency than the conventional recovery boiler, while generating an energy-rich syngas from the liquor. The syngas can be burnt in a gas turbine combined cycle to produce electricity (usually called \"BLGCC\" for Black Liquor Gasification Combined Cycle; similar to IGCC) or converted through catalytic processes into chemicals or fuels such as methanol, dimethyl ether (DME), or F-T diesel (usually called \"BLGMF\" for Black Liquor Gasification for Motor Fuels). This gasification technology is currently under operation in a 3 MW pilot plant at Chemrec’s test facility in Piteå, Sweden. The DME synthesis step will be added in 2011 in the \"BioDME\" project, supported by the European Commission's Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) and the Swedish Energy Agency.\n\nUsed for biofuels production, the black liquor gasification route has been shown to have very high conversion efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction potential.\n\nHydrothermal liquefaction is suitable for converting black liquor to advanced biofuels due to the process' ability to handle high moisture inputs.\n\nWhere recovery boiler capacity is limited and a bottleneck in the pulp mill the lignin in the black liquor may be extraordinary and exported or used as fuel in the mill's lime kiln, thereby often replacing fossil based fuel with biofuel.\n\nA tax credit created by the U.S. Congress in 2005 as part of the to reward and support the use of liquid alternative fuel derived from hydrocarbons in the transportation sector was expanded in 2007 to include non-mobile uses of liquid alternative fuel derived from biomass. This change meant that, in addition to fish processors, animal renderers and meat packers, kraft pulp producers became eligible for the tax credit as a result of their generation and use of black liquor to make energy. For one large company (International Paper) this could amount to as much as $3.7 billion in benefits. Weyerhaeuser announced in May 2009 that it was also pursuing the tax credit. While some have criticized the paper industry's eligibility for the alternative fuel mix tax credit on the grounds that it is increasing fossil fuel use, the industry has countered that adding a fossil fuel is actually a requirement of the law and that, regardless, this does not result in a net increase in fossil fuel use since companies are merely replacing the existing fossil fuel they already mix with black liquor—natural gas—with one of the three fuels specified by the law: gasoline, kerosene or diesel. The bio-fuel credit for Black Liquor ended on January 1, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "22018559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22018559", "title": "Business Ethics Quarterly", "text": "Business Ethics Quarterly\n\nBusiness Ethics Quarterly is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes theoretical and empirical research relevant to all aspects of business ethics. It publishes articles and reviews on a broad range of topics, including the internal ethics of business organizations, the role of business organizations in larger social, political, and cultural frameworks, and the ethical quality of market-based societies and market-based relationships. \"Business Ethics Quarterly\" is an official journal of the Society for Business Ethics and is published on a non-profit basis by the Cambridge University Press. The editor-in-chief is Denis G. Arnold (University of North Carolina at Charlotte).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.735, ranking it 7th out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32947227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32947227", "title": "Center for Governmental Research", "text": "Center for Governmental Research\n\nThe Center for Governmental Research, Inc. (CGR) is a non-profit corporation delivering data support, management consulting and implementation assistance to governments, educational institutions, foundations and non-profit organizations. Headquartered in Rochester, New York, it was founded by George Eastman in 1915 as the Rochester Bureau of Municipal Research to provide research and guidance to its home city's government and community institutions. Over the decades, CGR has grown from a bureau focused on the needs of one city into an organization with broader reach. Today, CGR serves communities throughout the northeastern United States. Its major practice areas are government management and education, public finance and economics, health and human services, and community data and information management. It is an industry expert in working with communities on issues of municipal efficiency, economic and fiscal impact, public service delivery and local government restructuring, including evaluating the impacts of potential municipal consolidation. It served as project manager for the 2013 municipal consolidation of Princeton, New Jersey, one of the largest municipal restructurings in New Jersey in almost a century.Via Governing Magazine It also developed the voter-approved plan in Seneca Falls, New York, resulting in the largest village dissolution in New York history. Via CBS News\n\nIts president and chief executive officer is Dr. Joseph Stefko. \n\nManagement reviews; Operational analysis; Efficiency studies; Budget analysis; Budgetary planning; Restructuring, shared services and consolidation; Central business office design; GIS mapping; Community planning; Policy and program implementation support; Strategic planning; Service re-engineering; Police, fire and EMS studies; Emergency services planning; Program evaluation; Policy design and analysis; Public engagement and facilitation; Change management; Organizational capacity building\n\nFiscal distress strategy; Economic impact analysis; Fiscal impact modeling; Cost-benefit analysis; Regional economic studies; Land use impact analysis; Economic development studies. CGR also offers economic development agencies a proprietary Economic Impact Analysis product that delivers targeted economic impact analysis for proposed development projects.\n\nCommunity health assessments (CHA); Public nursing home operational reviews; Public health services analysis; Veterans services analysis; Criminal justice services analysis; Child and family services analysis; Community needs assessments; Service re-engineering; Program evaluation; Policy design and analysis; Strategic planning\n\nCommunity indicators tools; Vital indicators data management; Census data analysis; Civic project data support; Service gap analysis; Program evaluation; Strategic planning; Workforce development planning; Organizational capacity building. CGR also offers communities and foundations a proprietary Community Profile product that delivers targeted tracking of a region's strengths and weaknesses as a vehicle for maximizing public investments.\n"}
{"id": "2513827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2513827", "title": "Chief data officer", "text": "Chief data officer\n\nA chief data officer (CDO) is a corporate officer responsible for enterprise wide governance and utilization of information as an asset, via data processing, analysis, data mining, information trading and other means. CDOs report mainly to the chief executive officer (CEO). Depending on the area of expertise this can vary. CDO is a member of the executive management team and manager of enterprise-wide data processing & data mining.\n\nThe Chief Data Officer title shares its abbreviation with the Chief Digital Officer but the two are not the same job. The Chief Data Officer has a significant measure of business responsibility for determining what kinds of information the enterprise will choose to capture, retain and exploit and for what purposes. However, the similar-sounding Chief Digital Officer or Chief Digital Information Officer often does not bear that business responsibility, but rather is responsible for the information \"systems\" through which data is stored and processed.\n\nThe role of manager for data processing was not elevated to that of senior management prior to the 1980s. As organizations have recognized the importance of information technology as well as business intelligence, data integration, master data management and data processing to the fundamental functioning of everyday business, this role has become more visible and crucial. This role includes defining strategic priorities for the company in the area of data systems and opportunities, identifying new business opportunities pertaining to data, optimizing revenue generation through data, and generally representing data as a strategic business asset at the executive table.\n\nWith the rise in service-oriented architectures (SOA), large-scale system integration, and heterogeneous data storage/exchange mechanisms (databases, XML, EDI, etc.), it is necessary to have a high-level individual, who possesses a combination of business knowledge, technical skills, and people skills, guide data strategy. Besides the revenue opportunities, acquisition strategy, and customer data policies, the chief data officer is charged with explaining the strategic value of data and its important role as a business asset and revenue driver to executives, employees, and customers. This contrasts with the older view of data systems as mere back-end IT systems.\n\nMore recently, with the adoption of data science the Chief Data Officer is sometimes looked upon as the key strategy person either reporting to the Chief Strategy Officer or serving the role of CSO in lieu of one. This person has the responsibility of measurement along various business lines and consequently defining the strategy for the next growth opportunities, product offerings, markets to pursue, competitors to look at etc. This is seen in organizations like Chartis, AllState and Fidelity\n\n\n\nMany major Banks and Insurance companies, subsequent to the credit crisis of 2008, created the CDO role to ensure data quality and transparency for regulatory and risk management as well as analytic reporting.\n\nVarious branches of US Government have CDOs. The CDO role is far more common in the United States than elsewhere. However several European banks have a CDO.\n\nTo better harness values of data, more and more organizations are establishing Chief Data Officer (CDO) position. The professional skills of CDOs are rather diverse because CDOs are expected to undertake a variety of roles in their companies including enterprise data architect, data quality and governance manager, business strategy leader, business regulation compliance officer, etc. CDO is an emerging research field, few studies have been done on CDO. This paper tries to profile what are the key professional skills and education background that current CDOs have by studying their resumes on LinkedIn using topic modeling technique. This work is a step forward towards understanding the roles of CDOs in organizations and what are the professional skills and experience they may need have in order to undertake their responsibilities of managing data and realizing its true values for their organizations.\n\nA research team at University of Arkansas at Little Rock uses text mining and machine learning to analyze CDOs' resumes. According to the paper, on average each CDO has received two degrees. \nIn terms of degree concentration, \n\n"}
{"id": "13536793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536793", "title": "Corporate services", "text": "Corporate services\n\nCorporate services are activities that combine or consolidate certain enterprise-wide needed support services, provided based on specialized knowledge, best practices, and technology to serve internal (and sometimes external) customers and business partners. The term corporate services providers (CSPs) is also used.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the public audit agencies produced a report in May 2007 called \"Value for Money in public sector corporate services\". This provides performance indicators in five categories: Finance, Human Resources, Information & Communication Technology, Procurement, and Estates Management.\n\nBusiness advisory service advises current and future businesses prospects of a client, with the aim of advancing their business or company. This service is used by all types of businesses and would involve examining the legal, tax, finance, market and risks factors involved to start up a business or making new changes to the business. Business advisory services are given by organisations with experience in company formation.\n\nCompany incorporation is the process of forming a company corporation officially in the country of residence. It is also possible non-residents to set up a company: see offshore company. However, laws vary in all countries. International corporate service consultants specialise in dealing with incorporation in the country in question. Once application is successful, the company will receive a certificate of incorporation. Which provides valid existence of the company under the registered name given.\n\nA registered agent, also known as a resident agent or statutory agent, is a business or individual designated to receive service of process (SOP) when a business entity is a party in a legal action such as a lawsuit or summons. Some examples of related services include:\n\n\nCorporate services such as finance and banking, were first introduced to remove pressure from the client's organisation when dealing with complex banking and finance issues. Specialist information and tips are provided by the consultancy to manage finances appropriately, and some can set up a corporate bank account for clients. Some examples of tailored services include:\n\n\nAccounting and tax services are useful for companies wanting to outsource their basic work. The services involve preparing and submitting obligatory documents required by authorities associated with business practice.\nSome basic services include:\n\n\nMarket research for investment along with risk evaluation is another corporate service designed to help clients make financial decisions. Intellectual property protection is seen as an investment, this is a service some consultancies may also advise on. Similarly, stock exchange services can bring about specialist reports on past, current and forecasted stock exchange trends, with a personalised analysis.\n\nWhere local Corporate Service Providers (CSPs) offer bundled basic services to support tax residency tests such as \"central management and control\" type tests (typical in UK law) of a brass plate company, shell company or other special-purpose vehicle that has been set up in the jurisdiction. Usually located in either offshore financial centres or in onshore financial centres. Typical services include:\n\n"}
{"id": "63072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63072", "title": "Creative accounting", "text": "Creative accounting\n\nCreative accounting is a euphemism referring to accounting practices that may follow the letter of the rules of standard accounting practices, but deviate from the spirit of those rules. They are characterized by excessive complication and the use of novel ways of characterizing income, assets, or liabilities and the intent to influence readers towards the interpretations desired by the authors. The terms \"innovative\" or \"aggressive\" are also sometimes used. Other synonyms include Cooking the books and Enronomics.\n\nThe term as generally understood refers to systematic misrepresentation of the true income and assets of corporations or other organizations. \"Creative accounting\" has been at the root of a number of accounting scandals, and many proposals for accounting reform – usually centering on an updated analysis of capital and factors of production that would correctly reflect how value is added.\n\nNewspaper and television journalists have hypothesized that the stock market downturn of 2002 was precipitated by reports of \"accounting irregularities\" at Enron, Worldcom, and other firms in the United States.\n\nOne commonly accepted incentive for the systemic over-reporting of corporate income which came to light in 2002 was the granting of stock options as part of executive compensation packages. Since stock prices reflect earning reports, stock options could be most profitably exercised when income is exaggerated, and the stock can be sold at an inflated profit.\n\nThe most notable activist is Abraham Briloff (professor emeritus of CUNY Baruch) who for years wrote a column for \"Barron's\" that constantly analyzed breaches of ethics and audit professionalism among CPA firms. His book is called \"Unaccountable Accounting\". The profession, in turn, was not kind to Dr. Briloff but much of what he advocated has been forced on the industry in the wake of the Enron scandal (See Sarbanes-Oxley).\n\nAccording to critic David Ehrenstein, the term \"creative accounting\" was first used in 1968 in the film \"The Producers\" by Mel Brooks.\n\nCreative accounting can be used to manage earnings. Earnings management occurs when managers use judgment in financial reporting and in structuring transactions to alter financial reports to either mislead some stakeholders about the underlying economic performance of a company or influence contractual outcomes that depend on reported accounting numbers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14691603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14691603", "title": "Customer retention", "text": "Customer retention\n\nCustomer retention refers to the ability of a company or product to retain its customers over some specified period. High customer retention means customers of the product or business tend to return to, continue to buy or in some other way not defect to another product or business, or to non-use entirely. Selling organizations generally attempt to reduce customer defections. Customer retention starts with the first contact an organization has with a customer and continues throughout the entire lifetime of a relationship and successful retention efforts take this entire lifecycle into account. A company's ability to attract and retain new customers is related not only to its product or services, but also to the way it services its existing customers, the value the customers actually generate as a result of utilizing the solutions, and the reputation it creates within and across the marketplace.\n\nSuccessful customer retention involves more than giving the customer what they expect. Generating loyal advocates of the brand might mean exceeding customer expectations. Creating customer loyalty puts 'customer value rather than maximizing profits and shareholder value at the center of business strategy'. The key differentiation in a competitive environment is often the delivery of a consistently high standard of customer service. Furthermore, in the emerging world of Customer Success Retention is a major objective.\n\nCustomer retention has a direct impact on profitability. Research by John Fleming and Jim Asplund indicates that engaged customers generate 1.7 times more revenue than normal customers, while having engaged employees and engaged customers return a revenue gain of 3.4 times the norm.\n\nThe measurement of customer retention should distinguish between behavioral intentions and actual customer behaviors. The use of behavioral intentions as an indicator of customer retention is based on the premise that intentions are a strong predictor of future behaviors, such that customers who express a stronger repurchase intention toward a brand or firm will also exhibit stronger corresponding behaviors. Customer repurchase and retention behaviors can be measured in a variety of different ways which are enumerated in several award-winning articles published in the marketing discipline. The different studies that also involve different metrics to measure customer repurchase intention and actual repurchase behaviors are summarized in a series of review papers such as Keiningham and colleagues (2007), Gupta and Zeithaml (2006), and Morgan and Rego (2006). These studies point to the following general conclusions:\n\n\nIn terms of measurement, the intention measures can typically be obtained using scale-items embedded in a customer survey. The retention behaviors must be measured using secondary data such as/ accounting measures of the volume (amount and financial value) and frequency with which a customer purchases the firm's goods or services. This requires that the firm should have a strong customer information management department that can capture all the relevant metrics that may be needed for analysis. In a typical firm, these may come from a diverse set of departments such as accounting, sales, marketing, finance, logistics, and other customer research.\n\nCustomer retention is an outcome that is the result of several different antecedents as described below.\n\nCustomer lifetime value enables an organization to calculate the net present value of the profit an organization will realize on a customer over a given period of time. Retention Rate is the percentage of the total number of customers retained in context to the customers that approached for cancelation.\n\nPublished standards exist to help organizations deliver process-driven customer satisfaction and Customer Success in order to increase the lifespan of a customer. The International Customer Service Institute (TICSI) has released The International Standard for Service Excellence (TISSE 2012). TISSE 2012 enables organizations to focus their attention on delivering excellence in the management of customer service, whilst at the same time providing recognition of success through a 3rd Party certification scheme. TISSE 2012 focuses an organization's attention on delivering increased customer satisfaction by helping the organization through a Service Quality Model. TISSE Service Quality Model uses the 5 P's - Policy, Processes, People, Premises, Product/Service, as well as performance measurement. The implementation of a customer service standard leads to improved customer service practices, underlying operating procedures and eventually, higher levels of customer satisfaction, which in turn increases customer loyalty and customer retention.\n\n"}
{"id": "34812647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34812647", "title": "Dan Roman (businessman)", "text": "Dan Roman (businessman)\n\nDan Roman is an entrepreneur, investor and IT professional with focus on emerging markets. In 1990, after the termination of the communist era in Romania, he was a pioneer in establishing one of the first private companies in the country, RBS Ltd. (Romanian Business Systems), that became the local market leader. Roman managed RBS as CEO and owner until 1995, when he sold the company to IBM.\n\nIn 1996, he was appointed Director of IBM CER in Vienna, being responsible for countries in the Balkans and CIS area. In this capacity, he created for IBM a partner network and a framework for establishing local subsidiaries.\n\nIn 2000, Roman set up his own company, eNet Data G.m.b.H, based in Austria, dealing with IT services and solutions and with branches in a couple of countries from EE. eNet Data was acquired in 2002 by S&T, an Austrian IT public company. After the acquisition, Roman was appointed Senior VP of S&T and Region South / East General Manager, until end of 2008. From 2009 to 2011, Roman worked as President of the Management Board of S&T Romania and also as Senior Advisor of the S&T Group Board.\n\nStarting with June 2011, Roman held the position of General Manager of Kapsch Romania until end of 2013. Starting with 2014, he is involved in the project of establishing a regional presence of Kapsch in South Eastern Europe.\n\nPrior to founding RBS, Roman worked as Technical Director of ITC, the Research Institute for Computers in Romania, being responsible for software development. He was one of the first IT professionals who introduced in Romania the Computer Aided Design/ Computer Graphics as a field of research and development.\n\nDan Roman holds a PhD degree in Computer Science and graduated from the Politehnica University of Bucharest in Bucharest.\n\nIn parallel with his activity in the IT sector, Dan Roman is a passionate wine maker and founded in 2008 a company which deals with cultivating vines and grape processing.\n"}
{"id": "977735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977735", "title": "Donie Cassidy", "text": "Donie Cassidy\n\nDaniel \"Donie\" Cassidy (born 15 September 1945) is an Irish businessman and a former Fianna Fáil politician. He was a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Westmeath constituency from 2002 to 2007. From 1982 to 2002 and from 2007 to 2011, he served as a member of Seanad Éireann.\n\nCassidy was born in Castlepollard in County Westmeath. He came to prominence in Ireland through the showband scene. A saxophone player with Jim Tobin and the Firehouse, he moved into showbusiness management. He was the manager of Foster and Allen, a popular singing duo that enjoyed success inside and outside Ireland.\n\nHe first became involved in politics in 1982 when he was elected as a Fianna Fáil Senator on the Labour Panel. He was a member of Westmeath County Council from 1985 until 2003 at which point he resigned from the council due to the abolition of the dual mandate.\n\nCassidy was elected to Dáil Éireann for the Westmeath constituency at the 2002 general election, taking the seat of sitting TD and Government Minister Mary O'Rourke. This created a rift between the two politicians and Cassidy lost his seat to O'Rourke at the 2007 general election when both candidates contested the Longford–Westmeath constituency. The fact that Cassidy lost most of his home base of Castlepollard and north Westmeath due to the redrawing of the constituency did not help him. On 22 June 2007 Cassidy was nominated by the Taoiseach Bertie Ahern to Seanad Éireann and created Leader of the Seanad for the remaining weeks of the 22nd Seanad's existence. Cassidy was subsequently elected to the Labour Panel at the 2007 Seanad general election and was Leader of the Seanad until March 2011. He lost his seat at the 2011 Seanad election.\n\nCassidy owns two Dublin hotels and has another on the former site of the National Wax Museum, which he also owned. He also owns Celtic Note, a specialist Irish music store on Dublin's Nassau Street and since 1984 has had the franchise to sell CDs and DVDs at Dublin Airport. He also owns several buildings in Mullingar. His other interests include record and music publishing companies. He owns the publishing rights to many well known songs such as 'Grace' and 'My Lovely Rose of Clare'.\n\nIn a debate in Seanad Éireann on 10 April 2008, Cassidy stated the following about house prices in Ireland: \"We have a duty to tell first-time house buyers, young couples with no previous experience, that there is unbelievable value in the marketplace today. It will not last forever. It is never the wrong time to do the right thing. I offer the House the benefit of my experience and my opinion which is all any Member can do. I will remind the House, perhaps in 12 or 18 months, when prices have again increased by 25% or 30%, that they were told this by the Leader of the House on this historic day, the tenth anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement.\" In the event, 12 months later the average house price had decreased by 21.8%.\n"}
{"id": "36665832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36665832", "title": "European DataWarehouse", "text": "European DataWarehouse\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse GmbH is part of the ABS Loan Level Data initiative established by the European Central Bank that is engaged in providing Data Warehousing services and full disclosure for investors in Asset-Backed Securities (ABS). It provides an open platform for users to access Asset-Backed Security data.\n\nIt is the first centralised data repository in Europe for collecting, validating and making accessible to download point-by-point, institutionalised and asset class specific loan-level data (LLD) for Asset-Backed Securities (ABS) transactions. European DataWarehouse helps to facilitate risk assessment and improve transparency for European ABS deals.\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse was founded in January 2012 for the purpose of facilitating risk assessment and improving transparency in European Asset-Backed Security (ABS) deals.\n\nEuropean DataWarehouse's responsibilities include ensuring that ABS market data is openly accessible and that all transactions are recorded. A key aim of European DataWarehouse is to instil trust back into the ABS market, which has been a problem in recent times. The European Central Bank is set to make compliance with loan-level data disclosure compulsory before it will accept asset-backed securities as collateral for financing.\n\nED has three decision-making bodies and 17 shareholders:\n\nThe ED shareholders are:\nThe company received the Banking Technology Award for the Best Industry Infrastructure Initiative in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "971628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=971628", "title": "Fegime", "text": "Fegime\n\nFegime, or Fédération Européenne des Grossistes Indépendants en Matériel Electrique (European Federation of Independent Electrical Wholesalers) is a business alliance. It assists member companies for gaining and fulfilling international contracts. As of early 2005 Fegime claims a membership of 162 companies in nine countries including the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy and Spain with a total turnover of €1.8 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "7427293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7427293", "title": "Feminist therapy", "text": "Feminist therapy\n\nFeminist therapy is a set of related therapies arising from what proponents see as a disparity between the origin of most psychological theories and the majority of people seeking counseling being female. It focuses on societal, cultural, and political causes and solutions to issues faced in the counseling process. It openly encourages the client to participate in the world in a more social and political way.\n\nFeminist therapy contends that women are in a disadvantaged position in the world due to sex, gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, religion, age and other categories. Feminist therapists argue that many problems that arise in therapy are due to disempowering social forces; thus the goal of therapy is to recognize these forces and empower the client. In a feminist therapy setting the therapist and client work as equals. The therapist must demystify therapy from the beginning to show the client that she is her own rescuer, and the expectations, roles, and responsibilities of both client and therapist must be explored and equally agreed upon. The therapist recognizes that with every symptom a client has, there is a strength.\n\nFeminist therapy grew out of concerns that established therapies were not helping women. Specific concerns of feminist therapists included gender bias and stereotyping in therapy; blaming victims of physical abuse and sexual abuse; and the assumption of a traditional nuclear family.\n\n\n\nIn 1977, scholar Susan Thomas argued that feminist therapy was \"more [a] part of a social movement than [a] type of psychotherapy\", and was so intimately tied to broader social and political feminism that its legitimacy as a therapeutic school was questionable.\n\nPsychiatrist Sally Satel of Yale University has been critical of feminist therapy since the late 1990s, characterizing it as promoting a paranoid conspiracy. Satel argued in her 2000 book \"P.C. MD: How Political Correctness Is Corrupting Medicine\" that the very concept of feminist therapy is contrary to the methods and goals of psychotherapy, sometimes so far as to veer into potential malpractice. Traditionally, notes Satel, the goal of therapy is to help the patient understand and alter unrealistic thinking and unhealthy behaviors to improve the patient's confidence, interpersonal skills, and quality of life. Traditional therapy, while rooted in well-tested methods, must also be flexible enough to adapt to each patient's unique experiences, personality and needs.\n"}
{"id": "23634648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23634648", "title": "Financial Supervisory Authority (Egypt)", "text": "Financial Supervisory Authority (Egypt)\n\nThe Financial Supervisory Authority () is the integrated government agency that regulates the financial service industry in Egypt. The agency supervises all non-banking financial transactions and markets including capital markets, derivative markets, commodities, insurance, mortgage finance, financial leasing and factoring.\n\nWith the passing of Law no. 10, 2009, issued on February 25, 2009, the agency was established and became operationally effective on July 1, 2009. It replaced three major regulating authorities: the Capital Market Authority, the Insurance Supervisory Authority, and the Mortgage Finance Authority. This unification was intended to foster Egypt's financial sector. \n\nEstablishing the new authority is part of at a series of reforms aimed to strengthen the stability and security of the non-banking financial sector in Egypt and its interoperability with the banking sector. This move came against a backdrop of the global economic and financial crisis of 2007–2010 which highlighted the need for integrity and transparency in financial markets.\n\nAshraf El-Sharkawy headed the authority after the January 2011 uprising.\n\nThe Financial Supervisory Authority supervises all non-banking financial transactions and markets including importantly capital markets, derivative markets on financial assets and commodities, insurance contracts and services, mortgage finance, financial leasing, factoring and securitization.\n\nThe agency is an ordinary member of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). Both Cairo and Alexandria Stock Exchanges (CASE) as well as \"Misr Company for Central Clearing, Depository & Registry\" (MCDR) have membership of the IOSCO too, but they are affiliate members.\n\nThe headquarters is located in Smart Village.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21635502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21635502", "title": "Friedrich Berentzen", "text": "Friedrich Berentzen\n\nFriedrich Josef Maria Berentzen (11 September 1928 in Haselünne – 20 February 2009 in Bad Rothenfelde) was a German businessman known for the liquor manufacturer (Berentzen-Gruppe AG) he founded. He is credited with marketing apple flavor grain liquors (Apfelkorn) and establishing his company as the market leader in this product segment.\n\n"}
{"id": "52306934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52306934", "title": "Fulton Market Building", "text": "Fulton Market Building\n\nThe Fulton Market Building is a renovated building that once housed the Fulton Fish Market, on Fulton Street in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan. It served as the venue for the 2016 World Chess Championship.\n"}
{"id": "51366624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51366624", "title": "Harrie Langman", "text": "Harrie Langman\n\nHartgert \"Harrie\" Langman (23 February 1931 – 1 August 2016) was a Dutch politician of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD). \n\nHe died on 1 August 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39114672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39114672", "title": "Herman Hu", "text": "Herman Hu\n\nHerman Hu (Chinese: 胡曉明) (b. Feb 1954) was the Chairman of the Council of City University of Hong Kong from 2012 to 2017. Hu is a Member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) and Hong Kong deputy to the 12th & 13th National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China (NPC). Hu was one of the first Election Committee members to nominate Leung Chun-ying for the post of Chief Executive of Hong Kong. Hu is the head of Ryoden Development Ltd and is the son of Hu Fa-kuang.\n"}
{"id": "51114180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51114180", "title": "Horst Geicke", "text": "Horst Geicke\n\nHorst Joachim Franz Geicke (born 1955 in Hamburg) is a German-born entrepreneur, investor, and official in Asia. He is currently building the Deutsches Haus Ho Chi Minh Stadt as chairman and Investor.\nGeicke studied Business Administration and Business Law at the University of Hamburg and moved to Hong Kong in 1981 to be a successful entrepreneur with export-oriented manufacturing companies in China. Later, he focused on investments, particularly in real estate along Richard Li. He also founded VinaCapital Investment Management, Euro Auto (BMW Vietnam), and the Pacific Alliance Group (PAG). He is known as an early investor in China as well as in Vietnam and with this expertise mentioned in newspapers. In 2015 he was ranked 270 of the richest Germans by Manager Magazin.\n\nToday, Geicke is primarily known as chairman and investor of the Deutsches Haus Ho Chi Minh City. The building complex which is scheduled to be completed by 2017 consists of two towers with an estimated investment of €100 million. It was initiated under a bilateral government agreement between Germany and Vietnam. This centrally located property had been purchased in 1960 by the German government. Geicke then acquired the property from the German federal government, which was originally intended for “diplomatic purposes” in Ho Chi Minh city against initial resistance of the Vietnamese party bureaucracy and by negotiating with the German federal ministries. Geicke had previously acquired federal property in Hong Kong.\n\nGeicke is an active member of business communities. In Hong Kong, he is and was president of the European and German Chamber of Commerce. He is also president of the Hong Kong Vietnam Chamber of Commerce and board member of other organizations.\n\nIn Vietnam, he founded the VinaCapital Foundation which is engaged in the social sector, such as the financing of cardiac surgery as a late consequence of the Vietnam War (“Heartbeat Vietnam”).\n\n"}
{"id": "19134674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19134674", "title": "Hotel McAlpin", "text": "Hotel McAlpin\n\nThe Hotel McAlpin is a historic hotel building on Herald Square, at the corner of Broadway and 34th Street in Manhattan, New York City. It currently operates as an apartment building known as Herald Towers.\n\nThe Hotel McAlpin was constructed in 1912 by General Edwin A. McAlpin, son of David Hunter McAlpin. When opened it was the largest hotel in the world. The hotel was designed by the noted architect Frank Mills Andrews (1867–1948). Andrews also was president of the Greeley Square Hotel Company which first operated the hotel.\n\nConstruction of the Hotel McAlpin neared completion by the end of 1912 so that the hotel had an open house on 29 December. The largest hotel in the world at the time, \"The New York Times\" commented that it was so tall at 25 stories that it “seems isolated from other buildings” Boasting a staff of 1,500, the hotel could accommodate 2,500 guests. It was built at a cost of $13.5 million ($ today). The top floor had a Turkish bath and there were two gender-specific floors; women checking into the hotel could reserve a room on the women's only floor and bypass the lobby and check in directly at their own floor. One floor, dubbed the “sleepy 16th” was designed for night workers so that it was kept quiet during the day. It also hosted a travel agency.\n\nThe hotel underwent an expansion half a decade later. The owners had purchased an additional 50 feet of frontage on 34th street two years early and proceeded to dismantle those properties. The new addition was the same height as the original 25-story building, and was expected to provide an additional 200 rooms, four more elevators, and a large ballroom. A major refurbishment costing $2.1 million was completed in 1928 refreshing the rooms, installing modern bathrooms and updating the elevators.\n\nThe McAlpin family sold the hotel in 1938 to Jamlee Hotels, headed by Joseph Levy, president of Crawford Cloths, a prominent real estate investor in New York for $5,400,000. Jamlee reportedly invested an additional $1,760,000 in renovations. During the Jamlee ownership, the hotel was managed by the Knott Hotel Chain until 1952 when management was taken over by Tisch. On October 15, 1954, Jamlee sold the hotel to Sheraton Hotels for $9,000,000 and it was renamed the Sheraton-McAlpin. Sheraton completely renovated the hotel five years later and renamed it the Sheraton-Atlantic Hotel on October 8, 1959. Sheraton sold the hotel to the investing partnership of Sol Goldman and Alexander DiLorenzo on July 28, 1968 for $7.5 million and it reverted to the Hotel McAlpin name.\n\nDuring the housing bubble, the building attempted to convert to condominiums but ultimately failed. It is currently a rental building known as Herald Towers.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 1916, Harry K. Thaw, former husband of Evelyn Nesbit and the murderer of Stanford White, attacked 19-year-old Fred Gump, Jr. in a large suite on the 18th Floor. Thaw had enticed Gump to New York with a promise of a job but instead sexually assaulted him and beat him repeatedly with a stocky whip until he was covered in blood. According to the New York Times, Thaw had rented two rooms on either side of his suite to muffle the screams. The next day, Thaw's bodyguard took Gump to the aquarium and zoo before the boy managed to escape. Gump's father sued Thaw for $650,000 for the \"gross indignities\" that his son suffered. It was eventually settled out of court.\n\nIn 1920, The McAlpin hosted what may have been the first broadcast from a New York hotel. The Army Signal Corps arranged the broadcast by singer Luisa Tetrazzini from her room in the hotel. Tetrazzini (1871-1940) was an Italian lyric coloratura soprano who had an enormous popularity in America from the 1900s-1920s. Several dishes were named after her, the origin of the “Tetrazzini” dish is unknown, but several newspaper articles attribute it to a famous chef (not named) in New York City. Luisa Tetrazzini supposedly gave her recipe for “Spaghetti Tetrazzini” to Louis Paquet, Executive Chef of the McAlpin Hotel on Herald Square in New York City. Luisa Tetrazzini would subsequently take cooking lessons from Chef Louis Paquet of the McAlpin Hotel on how to make his Spaghetti Tetrazzini before embarking on one of her concert tours.\n\nIn 1922, the McAlpin became one of the first hotels to link ship-to-shore radios into their phone system. The hotel would later be the first home of, and give the call letters to, radio station WMCA in 1925.\n\nIn 1947, Jackie Robinson, a resident living on the 11th floor, received the phone call here from the Brooklyn Dodgers that would change America forever by being the first African American player in Major League Baseball.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1975 (excepting 1973), the hotel hosted the US National High School Chess Championship, organized by prolific chess promoter Bill Goichberg.\n\nThe hotel's Marine Grill was considered one of the more unusual interiors in the city of New York due to \"an expansive grotto of polychrome terra cotta designed by the artist Frederick Dana Marsh.\" The building owner had closed the restaurant and historic preservationists were concerned with the future of the artwork. Their worst fears were realized when Susan Tunick, president of the non-profit group Friends of Terra Cotta, saw dumpsters outside the hotel filled with fragments from the murals. Rescue efforts were eventually successful when the murals were reassembled under the oversight of the MTA Arts for Transit Program at the William Street entrance to the Fulton Street subway station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13421472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13421472", "title": "IndUS Business Journal", "text": "IndUS Business Journal\n\nFounded in 2000, IndUS Business Journal is a national business-to-business newspaper headquartered in Waltham, Massachusetts, USA. Published fortnightly, the IndUS Business Journal is the sole business-to-business newspaper covering the Indian and South Asian business community in the United States, as well as trade and investment issues between South Asia and the United States.\n\nThe \"IndUS Business Journal\" is ranked in the Top 25 Business News Sites by Yahoo! Directory.\n\n\nLaunched in 2000, \"IndUS Business Journal\" was founded by Upendra Mishra, founder, president, and CEO of The Mishra Group, a diversified advertising, marketing, and media firm that also publishes Boston/SF, and INDIA New England. Since its inception, the IndUS Business Journal has grown to a national circulation of 18,000 and a total readership of 55,000. The publication serves a South Asian and Asian Indian readership, targeting entrepreneurs and business executives.\n\nThe \"IndUS Business Journal\" covers business, technology, health care, finance, law, venture capital, and entrepreneurship, presented from the perspective of South Asian and Asian Indian professionals. Regular sections include technology, health and medicine, franchise, hospitality, and international business. The publication also features supplement focus sections, which examine a diverse range of issues related to the South Asian and Asian Indian business community. \n\nOther notable features include the publication of Top25/Top 100 lists and customized industry reports. The lists document information regarding the South Asian and Asian Indian market, its prominence in corporate America and rankings of organizations that actively work within this market. \"IndUS Business Journal\" also authors an annual venture capital survey, which examines venture capital funding of South Asian-run businesses in the United States.\n\nThe \"IndUS Business Journal\" also publishes an annual business awards supplement, which acknowledges members of the South Asian and Asian Indian community who have made significant contributions to growing market sectors such as financial services, venture capital, franchise, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, hospitality, technology, outsourcing, exports and imports, and services industries. Awards include Business Person of the Year and Best Business Idea, among many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "49443734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49443734", "title": "Jean-Charles Diener", "text": "Jean-Charles Diener\n\nJean-Charles Diener is a French national originated from the Brittany region in France. With a master's degree of Agronomy specialized in Aquaculture obtained at the CIRAD of Montpellier, Diener developed a farming of Tilapia (\"Oreochromis niloticus\") in Gabon, Africa inside the Parc de la Lékédi with SODEPAL (COMILOG Cableway). In the Philippines, Diener worked with CIRAD on the Black Tiger farming (\"Penaeus monodon\") and study the benefit to grow Black tiger together with Tilapia (\"Oreochromis niloticus\" and \"Oreochromis mossambicus\") and Bangus/ Milkfish (\"Chanos chanos\").\n\nSince 2000, Diener has been based in Vietnam. \nAfter working for Proconco, a French-Vietnamese joint venture, and being part of the first team to develop feed formulation adapted for \"Pangasius\" farming in a large scale, Diener worked for six years as the sales manager in a Vietnamese company specialized in farming, processing and exporting of \"Pangasius\". Diener worked in this company from its beginning to its apogee where it become one of the top 15 biggest seafood companies in Vietnam. \nAfter that, Diener founded OFCO Sourcing in 2007, specializing in sourcing and inspection offering services as agent and trader. In 2008 they stopped their services of agent and trader, and concentrated on pre-shipment inspection, loading supervision and consultancy services. They stated that \"we cannot be judge and party at the same time\", that \"we cannot correctly judge the quality of the consignment if we are also responsible for buying this consignment.\" To avoid any conflict of interest OFCO never negotiates prices with suppliers, and they do not buy or sell seafood.\n\nOFCO Sourcing expand to become in 2011 OFCO Group, an independent third party inspection company recognized internationally as one of the most reliable inspection company in Vietnam. After years of inspection in Vietnam, OFCO acquired the reputation to be reliable and incorruptible.\n\nDiener is recognized as one of the most legitimate seafood specialist in Vietnam and have contributed to the development of the industry and especially to the expansion of \"Pangasius\" (\"Pangasius hypophthalmus\"). Several publications about Jean-Charles Diener attest of his actions to develop the seafood industry in Vietnam.\n\n”What if there were no more pangasius tomorrow” published by the magazine ASEAN SEAFOOD in 2015 is an article to alert Vietnamese Pangasius producers and exporters on the risk they are facing,\n“Pangasius buyers too focused on price, not quality\" published by INTRAFISH in 2014 explaining some problem faced by Pangasius buyers,\n\n“Expert ASC 'bullying' Vietnamese pangasius producers” published by INTRAFISH in 2014 explaining how Producers in Vietnam can be saturated by unnecessary certification,\n\n“Why there is no fundamental improvement?” published by the magazine TRA & BASA VIETNAM (P36-37) in 2014 explaining some of the problem of the Pangasius industry in Vietnam,\n\n“Pangasius prices flat as new glazing rules delayed” published by INTRAFISH MEDIA in 2014 explaining some difficulties with the regulation,\n\n“Expert: Minimum export price 'essential' for Vietnamese Pangasius” published by INTRAFISH MEDIA in 2014 give an essential aspect of the problem faced by the Pangasius industry,\n\n\"What is wrong with breaded pangasius?” published by the magazine TRA & BASA VIETNAM (P60-61) in 2013 explaining some of the problem of the Pangasius industry in Vietnam,\n\n“The three key steps to restore the image of Pangasius” published by the magazine VIETFISH INTERNATIONAL (VASEP) (P88-92) in 2012 is an article to propose solution to the Pangasius industry in Vietnam,\n\n\"Mr Jean-Charles Diener, CEO of OFCO Sourcing Vietnam\" published by the magazine SAIGON ENTREPRENEUR (P122-127) in 2006 presenting the life of Jean-Charles Diener in Vietnam,\n"}
{"id": "6807811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6807811", "title": "Jeddah Economic Forum", "text": "Jeddah Economic Forum\n\nJeddah Economic Forum (JEF) (Arabic: منتدى جدة الإقتصادي) is a forum held annually since 1999 during winter in Jeddah, western Saudi Arabia. It has become the region's Middle East strategic think tank focusing on regional and international economic and social issues. The Jeddah Economic Forum is organized by the Jeddah Marketing Board, which is a part of Jeddah Chamber of Commerce & Industry.\n\nIt is also organized in association with Ernst & Young as a Strategic Knowledge Advisors partner. The current president of the forum is Shiekh Saleh Kamel, Its known that the forum was founded by Amr Dabbagh.\n\nThe forum has invited famous speakers at the event such as George H. W. Bush, John Major, Bill Clinton, Gerhard Schroeder the former German chancellor, Madeleine Albright, Al-Waleed bin Talal, Queen Rania of Jordan, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan Prime Minister of Turkey, Rafik Hariri Post Prime Minister of Lebanon, Mahathir Mohamad Prime Minister of Malaysia, and Lubna Olayan, Hillary Clinton, Klaus Schwab, Hayat Sindi and Princess Victoria Ingrid.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAnnounced for 18/19 March 2018\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34710854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34710854", "title": "John Warren Kindt", "text": "John Warren Kindt\n\nJohn W. Kindt, MBA, J.D., LL.M., SJD, is a gambling critic and a Professor of Business and Legal Policy at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Since 1990, Professor Kindt has probably been best known as one of the most well-published academics in issues relating to gambling. He has served as a senior editor, contributing author, and intermittent co-author of the \"United States International Gambling Report\" and \"United States International Gaming Report\" (also known as \"U.S. Int’l Gambling Report\"). Kindt's academic research and publications contributed to the enactment of the 1996 U.S. National Gambling Impact Study Commission, the U.S. Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, and various other Federal and state statutes. \n\nAfter receiving a B.A. in Business from the College of William and Mary in 1972, Kindt earned four graduate degrees in Law and Business; specifically, J.D. 1976, MBA 1977, from the University of Georgia; LL.M. 1978, SJD 1981, from the University of Virginia. During the 1970s, Kindt was employed in several state and Federal government positions. He also served as a Senior Fellow at the London School of Economics.\n\nProfessor Kindt’s research has resulted in over 70 academic articles in the areas of legalized gambling economic impacts, antitrust law, tax law, commercial law, environmental law, and public and private international law. He is also known for his multi-volume book, \"Marine Pollution and the Law of the Sea\".\n"}
{"id": "5735758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5735758", "title": "Jørgen Vig Knudstorp", "text": "Jørgen Vig Knudstorp\n\nJørgen Vig Knudstorp (born 21 November 1968 in Fredericia) is the executive chairman and former CEO of the Lego Group. He succeeded Kjeld Kirk Kristiansen and is the first non-family member to head Lego.\n\nKnudstorp was born in 1968, grew up in Fredericia and graduated from Fredericia Gymnasium before attending Aarhus University.\n\nAfter obtaining his undergraduate degree, Knudstorp began an academic career as a researcher at his alma mater as well as obtaining a master's degree (1995) and a PhD (1998) in Economics from Aarhus University. He stayed in academia, but worked as a business consultant from 1998 to 2000.\n\nJørgen Vig Knudstorp joined the LEGO Group in 2001 after working as a McKinsey & Company consultant\nand university researcher at Aarhus University.\n\nUnder Knudstorp's tenure, LEGO Group's yearly income has gone from a loss to drawing a notable profit. and a 600% increase in turnover from 6.3 billion to 37.9 billion in 2016. In December 2016, it was announced that Knudstorp would step down as CEO of LEGO, and instead take the position of chairman of the group.\n\nIn January 2017 Starbucks nominated Knudstorp to its board of directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "43914074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43914074", "title": "Jüri Käo", "text": "Jüri Käo\n\nJüri Käo (born 16 November 1965 in Tallinn) is one of the managers and shareholders at NG Investeeringud, which is an industry, retail trade and real estate investment group based on Estonian private capital and employs more than 4300 people.\n\nIn 2009 the Äripäev business newspaper named Jüri Käo businessman of the year, earlier he has been named the most influential businessman in Estonia (in 2006 and 2007).\n\nIn 2001 the president of Estonia awarded Jüri Käo the Order of the White Star, 4th class and in 2006 the Order of the White Star, 2nd class for promoting business and contributing to Estonia becoming a member of the EU.\n\nFrom 2016 Jüri Käo is the vice president of the Estonian Employers Confederation council. From 2013 to 2016 Jüri Käo was the president of the Estonian Employers Confederation council, from 2004 to 2013 he was the vice president of the said council. Before that, from 1997 to 2002 he was the chairman of the board and in 2002–2004 vice chairman of the board.\n\nIn 1997–2002 and 2007–2014 Jüri Käo was the chairman of the Eesti Energia AS council.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16832677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16832677", "title": "KBR Tower", "text": "KBR Tower\n\nKBR Tower (formerly the M. W. Kellogg Tower) is a 550 ft (167.6m) tall skyscraper in Downtown Houston, Texas, United States; it is a part of the Cullen Center complex. The KBR Tower has the headquarters of KBR.\n\nThe 40 story building has about of rentable office space. The design architect was Neuhaus & Taylor, the general contractor was Linbeck Construction Company, the mechanical engineer was Sam P. Wallace, and the structural engineer was Ellisor Engineering, Inc. The building was completed in 1973.\n\nBy 1991, Dresser Industries and its subsidiary, M. W. Kellogg, switched office buildings. Kellogg took over of space on 16 floors of the Houston skyscraper formerly occupied by its parent firm. The skyscraper was renamed the M. W. Kellogg Tower. In exchange Dresser took over space at 3 Greenway Plaza, which had been renamed to the Dresser Tower. The building swap satisfied Kellogg's need for more space.\n\nIn 1998, Exxon announced that it was forming a new subsidiary, Exxon Upstream Development Co. The company planned to initially house the company in the Kellogg Tower before moving it to the Greenspoint business district.\n\nBy 2001, Halliburton owned the tower in a joint venture with TrizecHahn. In August of that year, Halliburton announced that it would consolidate 8,000 local employees to office space in Westchase. Halliburton planned to vacate about of Class B office space in the Kellogg Tower. In December 2001 Halliburton canceled its plans to relocate employees to Westchase. Nancy Sarnoff of the \"Houston Business Journal\" said that it made more sense for the company to lease existing space instead of constructing new office space in times of economic downturns.\n\nIn 2004, Jeanneret & Associates renewed its lease of space in the KBR Tower for 10 years.\n\nIn 2009, at the KBR Tower, Brookfield Properties began offering office suites from to to small businesses and laid off individuals seeking to start their own businesses.\n\nIn 2010, KBR signed a 20-year lease for at the KBR Tower and 500 Jefferson. In 2011 Brookfield Properties Corp. offered a 50% interest in the KBR Tower for sale. Paul Layne, Suresh Brookfield's Houston area executive vice president, said that the KBR lease made the building a major candidate for the sale of its interest. KBR owns the other 50% interest. Layne did not state whether KBR had the right of first refusal on Brookfield's interest. Layne said that confidentiality concerns were why he did not reveal the information.\n\nIn 2012 an affiliate of W.P. Carey purchased the KBR Tower.\n\n"}
{"id": "41982677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41982677", "title": "Kristóf Szatmáry", "text": "Kristóf Szatmáry\n\nKristóf Szatmáry (born 10 June 1975) is a Hungarian politician, who served as Secretary of State for Domestic Economy in the Ministry of National Economy between 1 February 2011 and 5 June 2014. As candidate of Fidesz, he became a member of the National Assembly (MP) in the 2006 parliamentary election.\n\nSzatmáry was born to a tradesman and craftsman family, his parents were involved in the food trade from the 1980s. He participated in the family business from the age sixteen. After he passed the secondary school final examinations he attended and graduated at the faculty of geography and the faculty of political science of Eötvös Loránd University. Parallel to his university education he was a contributor in Századvég Foundation.\n\nIn 1998 he founded a public opinion and market research company with his colleagues. From 2000 to 2002 he worked as a civil servant and gained a short but valuable experience there. He worked for the parliamentary department of the Ministry of Economy. From 2000 he was a secretary and from 2002 was head of department and also successfully took the special public administration examination. After the years in the ministry he came back to family business as a managing director. Theirs company gives work for approximately 30 people, they are in the catering industry and hotel business.\n\nHe joined Fidesz in 1993. He participated in the work of the General Assembly of District XVI, Budapest. Since 2002 he was elected member of the presidium of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of District XVI in the spring of 2004 and then general vice president of the organization in October. He has been President of the National Board of Entrepreneurs' Party since October 2005.\n\nIn the parliamentary election held in 2006, he was elected from the Fidesz Budapest Regional List. He was appointed a member of the Economic and Information Technology Committee on 30 May 2006. He was re-elected MP in the 2010 parliamentary election. He served as Vice Chairman of the Economic and Information Technology Committee from 14 May 2010 to 14 February 2011. He was appointed Secretary of State for Domestic Economy in February 2011. He was elected President of the Organization of Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BKIK). He also served as President of the Hungarian Table Tennis Association between 2010 and 2011. He was replaced by art collector Imre Pákh. Szatmáry was elected MP for District XVI, Budapest in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "4996092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4996092", "title": "Laserfiche", "text": "Laserfiche\n\nLaserfiche is a privately owned software development company that creates enterprise content management, business process automation, workflow, records management, document imaging and webform software.\n\nLaserfiche is headquartered in Long Beach, California and has offices in Mexico, United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Canada.\n\nLaserfiche sells its software through value-added resellers distributed throughout the world.\n\nNien-Ling Wacker founded Compulink Management Center Inc., a custom software development company, in 1974. By the early 1980s, Wacker had identified an emerging need among her clients for an electronic document repository that would provide both secure storage and instant retrieval by any word or phrase in the document.\n\nThe concept for a PC-based document management system began in 1981 when a client, a large Japanese auto manufacturer, required litigation support for a large volume of documents. At the time, paralegals had to wade through thousands of pages of depositions, entering keywords into a database. Attorneys were limited to searching on keywords to find relevant testimony. Nien-Ling Wacker realized that if a full-text index of every page were available, the search capabilities would be greatly enhanced, and the amount of physical labor required to index the documents would decrease substantially. With the release of WORM drives that cost \"only\" $200 for 200MB of diskspace, the conceived system could be made cost effective.\n\nThe first version of Laserfiche was released in 1987, becoming the first DOS-based document imaging system in the world. The system used commercial off-the-shelf components such as OCR boards from Kurzweil, graphics monitors from Cornerstone, and scanner interface boards by Kofax.\n\nIn 1993 Laserfiche released the first PC-based client–server document imaging system, based on the NetWare Loadable Modules platform.\n\nIn 2002, Laserfiche 6 marked the company’s first foray into MSSQL-based document management. That year, the company also introduced Quick Fields, an automated document processing module, and WebLink, which provided read-only, Web-based access to documents stored in Laserfiche.\n\nIn 2004, Laserfiche 7 marked the company’s first offering for Oracle users.\n\nIn early 2008, the company released Laserfiche 8, with a re-written workflow engine and integration with Microsoft SharePoint. In August 2008, the company launched Laserfiche Rio, an enterprise content management offering with unlimited servers, named user licensing and bundled functionality including content management, business process management and a thin-client interface called Web Access.\n\nIn 2009, Laserfiche opened an international office in Hong Kong, creating a separate company Laserfiche International.\n\nIn 2010, Laserfiche filed a lawsuit against SAP for trademark infringement over the disputed trademark phrase \"Run Smarter\". In 2011, Laserfiche announced that the litigation had been settled amicably and involved a license of the “Run Smarter” trademark.\n\nIn 2011, Laserfiche released Laserfiche Mobile for iPhone, an app that allows users to capture images with the phone's built-in camera, store them in the Laserfiche repository and include them in digital workflows. Later that year, Laserfiche was listed as a Champion in Info-Tech Research Group’s Enterprise Content Management (ECM) for Process Workers Vendor Landscape. According to Info-Tech, “Laserfiche is a stalwart that is exploiting the new capabilities of emerging technology.\n\nIn 2012, Laserfiche released Laserfiche Mobile for iPad, an app that extends governance, risk and compliance standards to the iPad.\n\nLaserfiche said it was profitable since 1994, growing at what Wacker describes as a managed pace.\n\nLaserfiche has two main product lines: Laserfiche Rio and Laserfiche Avante.\n\nLaserfiche Rio is designed to meet the needs of large organizations that have more than 100 users. It combines content management functionality with business process management (BPM), security and auditing, unlimited servers and a thin-client interface. Add-ons include DoD 5015.2-certified records management functionality, public Web portals and production-level document capture and processing.\n\nLaserfiche Avante is an ECM suite for small to medium organizations with fewer than 100 users. It combines content management with workflow tools that automate business processes. Built on the Microsoft platform, Laserfiche Avante allows users to drag and drop e-mails from Outlook® into Laserfiche.\n\nThe Laserfiche Institute’s stated mission is to “teach staff, resellers and current and prospective clients how to use Laserfiche most effectively.” As a part of this mission, the Institute conducts conferences, web seminars and publishes document management guides, white papers and other educational content. The Institute also distributes educational materials through the Laserfiche Support Site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "635681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=635681", "title": "Lease", "text": "Lease\n\nA lease is a contractual arrangement calling for the lessee (user) to pay the lessor (owner) for use of an asset. Property, buildings and vehicles are common assets that are leased. Industrial or business equipment is also leased.\n\nBroadly put, a lease agreement is a contract between two parties, the lessor and the lessee. The lessor is the legal owner of the asset; the lessee obtains the right to use the asset in return for regular rental payments. The lessee also agrees to abide by various conditions regarding their use of the property or equipment. For example, a person leasing a car may agree that the car will only be used for personal use.\n\nThe narrower term rental agreement can be used to describe a lease in which the asset is tangible property. Language used is that the user \"rents\" the land or goods \"let out\" or \"rented out\" by the owner. The verb \"to lease\" is less precise because it can refer to either of these actions. Examples of a lease for intangible property are use of a computer program (similar to a license, but with different provisions), or use of a radio frequency (such as a contract with a cell-phone provider).\n\nThe term rental agreement is also sometimes used to describe a periodic lease agreement (most often a month-to-month lease) internationally and in some regions of the United States.\n\nA lease is a legal contract, and thus enforceable by all parties under the contract law of the applicable jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United States, since it also represents a conveyance of possessory rights to real estate, it is a hybrid sort of contract that involves qualities of a deed.\n\nSome specific kinds of leases may have specific clauses required by statute depending upon the property being leased, and/or the jurisdiction in which the agreement was signed or the residence of the parties.\n\nCommon elements of a lease agreement include:\n\nAll kinds of personal property (e.g. cars and furniture) or real property (e.g. raw land, apartments, single family homes, and business property (including wholesale and retail)) may be leased. As a result of the lease, the owner (lessor) grants the use of the stated property to the lessee.\n\nThe narrower term 'tenancy' describes a lease in which the tangible property is land (including at any vertical section such as airspace, storey of building or mine). A premium is an amount paid by the tenant for the lease to be granted or to secure the former tenant's lease, often in order to secure a low rent, in long leases termed a \"ground rent\". For parts of buildings it is most common for users to pay also by collateral contract, or by the same contract, a service charge which is normally an express list of services in a lease to minimize disputes over service charges. A gross lease or tenancy stipulates a rent that is for the global amount due including all service charges.\n\nA cancelable lease (UK: determinable/breakable lease) is a lease that may be terminated (formally \"determined\") solely by the lessee or solely by the lessor without penalty. A mutually determinable lease can be determined by either. A non-cancelable lease is a lease that cannot be so terminated. Commonly, “lease” may imply a non-cancelable lease, whereas “rental agreement” may connote a cancelable lease.\n\nInfluenced by land registration, commonly tenancies initially granted for more than a year are referred to more simply as leases.\n\nThe lease will either provide specific provisions regarding the responsibilities and rights of the lessee and lessor, or there will be automatic provisions as a result of local law. In general, by paying the negotiated fee to the lessor, the lessee (also called a tenant) has possession and use (the rental) of the leased property to the exclusion of the lessor and all others except with the invitation of the tenant. The most common form of real property lease is a residential rental agreement between landlord and tenant. As the relationship between the tenant and the landlord is called a tenancy, this term generally is also used for informal and shorter leases. The right to possession by the tenant is sometimes called a leasehold interest. A lease can be for a fixed period of time (called the term of the lease). \nA lease may be terminated sooner than its end date by:\n\nA lease should be contrasted with a license, which may entitle a person (called a licensee) to use property, but which is subject to termination at the will of the owner of the property (called the licensor). An example of a licensor/licensee relationship is a parking lot owner and a person who parks a vehicle in the parking lot. A license may be seen in the form of a ticket to a baseball game or a verbal permission to sleep a few days on a sofa. The difference is that if there is a term (end time), a degree of privacy suggestive of exclusive possession of a clearly defined part, practised ongoing, recurrent payments, a lack of right to terminate save for misconduct or nonpayment, these factors tend toward a lease; by contrast, a one-time entrance onto someone else's property is probably a license. The seminal difference between a lease and a license is that a lease generally provides for regular periodic payments during its term and a specific ending date. If a contract has no ending date then it may be in the form of a \"perpetual license\" and still not be a lease.\n\nUnder normal circumstances, owners of property are at liberty to do what they want with their property (for a lawful purpose), including dealing with it or handing over possession of the property to a tenant for a limited period of time. If an owner has granted possession to another (i.e., the tenant) then any interference with the quiet enjoyment of the property by the tenant in lawful possession is itself unlawful.\n\nSimilar principles apply to real property as well as to personal property, though the terminology differs. The right to sub-lease may or may not be permitted to a tenant. Where it is permitted, the lease granted directly by the owner is called a \"headlease\", or sometimes a \"master lease\". Headlease tenants and their tenants who may in turn also sublet are termed \"mesne landlords\" from the old French for middle. The headlease tenant has no right to grant a sublease which extends beyond the end of the headlease.\n\nTo circumvent privity of estate which is the general principle flowing from privity of contract, laws exist in several jurisdictions to bind subtenants to some of the restrictive covenants (terms) of the headlease, for instance in England and Wales those which have been held by courts to touch and concern the land.\n\nA transfer of a remaining interest in a lease, assignment, is a type of (\"alienation\") is often possible and an implied rights to assign exist by compulsory law or as a default position in some jurisdictions. Sharing or parting with possession can be a breach of certain leases resulting in action for forfeiture.\n\nEnfranchisement is the obtaining of the landlord's title and is most commonly negotiated with the landlord where a tenant pays only a \"ground rent\". Merger is where the landlord and tenant happen to be the same and can terminate a lease where there are no subtenants in certain jurisdictions.\n\nOver the centuries, leases have served many purposes and the nature of legal regulation has varied according to those purposes and the social and economic conditions of the times. Leases, for example, were mainly used for agricultural purposes until the late 18th century and early 19th century when the growth of cities in industrialized countries made leases an important form of landholding in urban areas.\n\nThe modern law of landlord and tenant in common law jurisdictions retains the influence of the common law and, particularly, the \"laissez-faire\" philosophy that dominated the law of contract and property law in the 19th century. With the growth of consumerism, consumer protection legislation recognised that common law principles, which assume equal bargaining power between the contracting parties, create hardships when that assumption is inaccurate. Consequently, reformers have emphasised the need to assess residential tenancy laws in terms of protection they provide to tenants. Legislation to protect tenants is now common.\n\nA fixed-term tenancy or tenancy for years lasts for some fixed period of time. It has a definite beginning date and a definite ending date. Despite the name \"tenancy for years\", such a tenancy can last for any period of time—even a tenancy for one week may be called a tenancy for years. At common law the duration did not need to be certain, but could be conditioned upon the happening of some event, (e.g., \"until the crops are ready for harvest\" or \"until the war is over\"). In many jurisdictions that possibility has been partially or totally abolished.\n\nA fixed term tenancy comes to an end automatically when the fixed term runs out or, in the case of a tenancy that ends on the happening of an event, when the event occurs. If a holdover tenant remains on the property after the termination of the lease, s/he may become a tenant at sufferance because the lessor/landlord has suffered (or allowed) the tenant to remain as a tenant instead of evicting him or her. Such a tenancy is generally \"at will,\" meaning the tenant or the landlord may terminate it at any time, upon the providing of proper statutory notice.\n\nA periodic tenancy, also known as a tenancy from year to year, month to month, or week to week, is an estate that exists for some period of time determined by the term of the payment of rent. An oral lease for a tenancy of years that violates the Statute of Frauds (by committing to a lease of more than — depending on the jurisdiction — one year without being in writing) may actually create a periodic tenancy, depending on the laws of the jurisdiction where the leased premises are located. In many jurisdictions the \"default\" tenancy, where the parties have not explicitly specified a different arrangement, and where none is presumed under local or business custom, is a month-to-month tenancy.\n\nEither the landlord or the tenant may terminate a periodic tenancy when the period or term is nearing completion, by giving notice to the other party as required by statute or case law in the jurisdiction. Neither landlord nor tenant may terminate a periodic tenancy before the period has ended, without incurring an obligation to pay for the months remaining on the lease. Either party must give notice if it intends to terminate a tenancy from year to year, and the amount of notice is either specified by the lease or by state statute. Notice is usually, but not always, at least one month, especially for the year-to-year periodic tenancy. Durations of less than a year must typically receive notice equal to the period of the tenancy - for example, the landlord must give a month's notice to terminate a tenancy from month to month. However, many jurisdictions have increased these required notice periods, and some have reduced the capacity of a landlord to use them drastically. For jurisdictions that have local rent control laws, a landlord's ability to terminate a residential tenancy is substantially reduced. For example, in California, the cities of Los Angeles, Santa Monica, West Hollywood, San Francisco, and Oakland have \"rent stabilization ordinances\" that limit a landlord's ability to terminate a periodic tenancy, among other restrictions.\n\nThe notice must also state the effective date of termination, which, in some jurisdictions, \"must\" be on the \"last day\" of the payment period. In other words, if a month-to-month tenancy began on the 15th of the month, in a jurisdiction with a \"last day\" requirement the termination could not be effective on the 20th of the following month, even though this would give the tenant more than the required one month's notice.\n\nA \"tenancy at will\" is a tenancy which either the landlord or the tenant may terminate at any time by giving reasonable notice. Unlike a periodic tenancy, it isn't associated with a time period. It may last for many years, but it could be ended at any time by either the lessor or the lessee for any reason, or for no reason at all. Proper notice, as always with landlord/tenant law, must be given, as set forth in the state's statutes. If there is no formal lease, the tenancy at will is the one that usually exists. In rare cases it may occur where the tenancy is not for consideration. Under the modern common law, a tenancy at will without compensation is very rare, partly because it comes about only if the parties expressly agree that the tenancy is for no rent, commonly where a family member is allowed to live in a home (a nominal consideration may be required) without any formal arrangements. In most residential tenancies for a fixed term, for consideration, the tenant may not be removed except for cause, even if there is no written lease. (However, an oral lease for more than 12 months is not enforceable if the statute of frauds in the jurisdiction includes leases of more than 12 months.) Many residential leases convert to \"at will\" tenancy subject to 30-days notice. Alternatively, a tenancy at will (without a specific time limit) may exist for a temporary period where a tenant wishes to take possession of a property and the landlord agrees, but there is insufficient time in which to negotiate and complete a new lease. In this case, the tenancy at will is terminated as soon as a new lease is negotiated and signed. The parties may also agree on the basis that if the parties fail to enter into a new lease within a reasonable time period, then the tenant must vacate the premises.\n\nIf a lease exists at the sole discretion of the landlord, the law of the jurisdiction may imply that the tenant is granted, by operation of law, a reciprocal right to terminate the lease at will. However, a lease that explicitly exists at the will of the tenant (e.g. \"for as long as the tenant desires to live on this land\") generally does not imply that the landlord may terminate the lease; rather, such language may be interpreted as granting the tenant a life estate or even a fee simple.\n\nA tenancy at will is broken, again by operation of law, if the:\n\nThe specifics of these rules differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.\n\nSubject to any notice required by law, a tenancy at will also comes to an end when either the landlord or the tenant acts inconsistently with a tenancy. For example, the changing of locks by the landlord is an indication of the end of the tenancy, as is the vacation of the premises by the tenant. However, in some jurisdictions, such as California, a landlord is prohibited from using a \"self help\" remedy, such as changing the locks, to terminate a tenancy, particularly a residential tenancy. Doing so may constitute a \"constructive eviction\" and expose the landlord to civil and criminal liability.\n\nA \"tenancy at sufferance\" (sometimes called a \"holdover tenancy\") exists when a tenant remains in possession of a property after the expiration of a lease, and until the landlord acts to eject the tenant from the property. Although the tenant is technically a trespasser at this point, and possession of this type is not a true estate in land, authorities recognize the condition in order to hold the tenant liable for rent. The landlord may evict such a tenant at any time, and without notice.\n\nThe landlord may also impose a new lease on the holdover tenant. For a residential tenancy, this new tenancy is month to month. For a commercial tenancy of more than a year, the new tenancy is year to year; otherwise it is the same period as the period before the original lease expired. In either case, the landlord can raise the rent, so long as the landlord has told the tenant of the higher rent before the expiration of the original lease.\n\nFormal requirements for a lease are determined by the law and custom of the jurisdiction in which real property is located. In the case of personal property, it is determined by the law and custom of the jurisdiction in which the rental agreement is made.\n\nA tenancy for a duration greater than one year must be in writing in order to satisfy the Statute of Frauds.\n\nThe term of the lease may be fixed, periodic or of indefinite duration. If it is for a specified period of time, the term ends automatically when the period expires, and no notice needs to be given, in the absence of legal requirements. The term's duration may be conditional, in which case it lasts until a specified event occurs, such as the death of a specified individual. A periodic tenancy is one which is renewed automatically, usually on a monthly or weekly basis. A tenancy at will lasts only as long as the parties wish it to, and may be terminated by either party without penalty.\n\nIt is common for a lease to be extended on a \"holding over\" basis, which normally converts the tenancy to a periodic tenancy on a month by month basis. It is also possible for a tenant, either expressly or impliedly, to give up the tenancy to the landlord. This process is known as a \"surrender\" of the lease.\n\nAs stated by the Australian Consumer Law (ACL), 2013, a lack of transparency regarding a term in a standard-form consumer contract may cause a significant imbalance in the parties’ rights and obligations.\n\nA term is considered transparent if it is:\n\nTerms that may not be considered transparent include terms that are hidden in fine print or schedules or phrased in complex or technical language.\n\nRent is a requirement of leases in some common law jurisdictions, but not in civil law jurisdictions. In England and Wales it was held in the case of \"Ashburn Anstalt v Arnold\" that rent was not a requirement for there to be a lease, however the court will more often construe a licence where no rent is paid as it is seen as evidence for no intention to create legal relations. There is no requirement for the rent to be a commercial amount; a peppercorn or rent of some nominal amount is sufficient for this requirement.\n\nA sharing arrangement with much of a landlord's property or, for no specific room of a building for instance, may defeat a finding of a lease, however this common requirement of a lease is interpreted differently in many jurisdictions.\n\nIn addition to the above, a car rental agreement may include various restrictions on the way a renter can use a car, and the condition in which it must be returned. For example, some rentals cannot be driven off-road, or out of the country, or towing a trailer, without specific permission. In New Zealand you may have to specifically endorse a promise that the car will not be driven onto Ninety-Mile Beach (because of the hazardous tides).\n\nThere will certainly be a requirement to show a driver's license, and only those drivers appearing on the contract may be authorized to drive. It may include an option to purchase auto insurance (UK: motor insurance), if the renter does not already have a policy to cover rentals—another important consideration for multiple drivers. Some agencies may even require a bond payable if the car is not returned in order, often held in the form of a credit-card authorization—voided if the car is returned per agreement. A renter should be advised that he or she will be responsible for any tolls, parking or traffic violations incurred upon the vehicle during the rental period. There should also be advice on handling thefts, accidents, break-downs, and towing.\n\nFurther terms may include added fees for late returns, drop-off at a different location, or failure to top up the petrol immediately before the return.\n\nFinally, there may be provisions for making a non-refundable deposit with a booking, terms for payment of the initial period (with discounts, vouchers, etc.), extended periods, and any damages or other fees that accrue prior to the return.\n\nA rental agreement is often called a lease, especially when real estate is rented. Real estate rentals are initiated by a rental application which is used to build the terms of the lease. In addition to the basics of a rental (who, what, when, how much), a real estate rental may go into much more detail on these and other issues. The real estate may be rented for housing, parking a vehicle(s), storage, business, agricultural, institutional, or government use, or other reasons.\n\n\nThe security deposit is often handled as an escrow deposit, owned by the tenant, but held by the landlord until the premises are surrendered in good condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted). In some states, the landlord must provide the tenant with the name and account number of the bank where the security deposit is held, and pay annual interest to the tenant. Other regulations may require the landlord to submit a list of pre-existing damage to the property, or forfeit the security deposit immediately (because there is no way to determine whether a prior tenant was responsible). In UK the government has introduced deposit protection scheme leading to several property inventory services which can optionally be used to carry out an inventory.\n\nIn order to rent (alternatively called lease) in many apartment buildings, a renter (lessee) is often required to provide proof of renters insurance before signing the rental agreement. There is a special type of the homeowners insurance in the United States specifically for renters — HO-4. This is commonly referred to as renter’s insurance or renter's coverage. Similar to condominium coverage, referred to as a HO-6 policy, a renter's insurance policy covers those aspects of the apartment and its contents not specifically covered in the blanket policy written for the complex. This policy can also cover liabilities arising from accidents and intentional injuries for guests as well as passers-by up to 150' of the domicile. Renter’s policies provide \"named peril\" coverage, meaning the policy states specifically what you are insured against. Common coverage areas are:\n\nAdditional events including riot, aircraft, explosion, hail, falling objects, volcanic eruption, snow, sleet, and weight of ice may also be covered.\n\nIn real estate law, sublease (or, less formally, sublet) is the name given to an arrangement in which the lessee (e.g. tenant) in a lease assigns the lease to a third party, thereby making the old lessee the sublessor, and the new lessee the sublessee, or subtenant. This means they are not only leasing the property, but also subleasing it simultaneously. For example, if a company leases an office space directly from a landlord, the lessor, and subsequently outgrows the office, then the company can sublease the smaller office space to another company, the subtenant, and enter into a new lease for a larger office space, thereby hedging their real estate exposure.\n\nThe sublessor remains liable to the original lessor in accordance with the initial lease, including all remaining rent payments, including operating expenses and all other original lease terms. In a down-market, the original lessee may require a lower rent payment from the sublessee than what he or she may have originally paid, leaving the remaining rent owed to the lessor to be paid by the original lessee. However, if market prices have increased since the original lease was signed, the sublessor might be able to secure a higher rent price than what is owed the original lessor. However, many commercial leases stipulate that any overages in rent be shared with the landlord, the lessor.\n\nIn residential real estate, it is sometimes illegal to charge the subtenant more than the original amount in the sublessee's contract (for instance, in a rent control situation where the rental amount is controlled by law). Subletting of social housing is generally illegal, whatever the rent charged to the subtenant; in the UK it is officially described as a category of housing fraud.\n\nA sublease can also apply to vehicles as an alternate type of car rental. In a vehicle sublease, a lessee or vehicle owner can assign a lease to a third party and by way of contractual agreement for specific dates. Although this arrangement is not popular, it is a growing trend in the travel industry as a less expensive alternative for travelers and locals.\n\nLeasing is also used as a form of financing to acquire equipment for use and purchase. Many organizations and companies use lease financing for the acquisition and use of many types of equipment, including manufacturing and mining machinery, vessels and containers, construction and off-road equipment, medical technology and equipment, agricultural equipment, aircraft, rail cars and rolling stock, trucks and transportation equipment, business, retail and office equipment, IT equipment and software.\n\nLease financing for equipment is generally provided by banks, captives and independent finance companies.\n\nIn the United States, leases of goods are generally governed by Article 2A of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) as adopted by the various jurisdictions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17627567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17627567", "title": "Merger doctrine (antitrust law)", "text": "Merger doctrine (antitrust law)\n\nIn U.S. antitrust law, the phrase \"merger doctrine\" is used to broadly describe the approaches that courts have taken to address mergers between corporations which might tend to reduce competition and raise prices. More specifically, courts tend to make separate discussions of a \"horizontal merger doctrine\" (where direct competitors merge) and \"vertical merger doctrine\" (where a company merges with its own suppliers and distributors, cutting them off from supplying or distributing to competitors).\n"}
{"id": "12678578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12678578", "title": "Morning Call (TV program)", "text": "Morning Call (TV program)\n\nMorning Call is an American TV business program that aired on CNBC, from 10AM to 12 noon ET weekdays. The show premiered as \"Midday Call\" on February 4, 2002, offered a clear focus on real-time market coverage at the heart of the trading day. Previous programs shown in the same time slot were \"The Money Wheel\" with Ted David and Martha MacCallum (who later joined Fox News Channel) and \"Market Watch\". The program last aired August 8, 2007.\n\nOn February 3, 2006, Ted David, who had co-anchored \"Morning Call\" with Liz Claman since 2003, left the program while being promoted to senior anchor at CNBC Business Radio. From 2006-02-06 to 2007-07-17, Claman was joined in the 10-11am hour by Mark Haines (who reported from the New York Stock Exchange), and in the 11am-noon hour by various anchors, including Dylan Ratigan (see anchor roster below).\n\nOn July 20, 2007, CNBC replaced the first hour of the two-hour program with an expanded \"Squawk on the Street\", due in part to Claman's departure from the network (which she joined Fox News Channel's sister network financial unit three months later). Dylan Ratigan and Trish Regan served as interim anchors for the program, which was completely revamped on 2007-07-23. In addition to the aforementioned 2007-07-23 revamp, the anchors were joined on set by a guest contributor, very similar to \"Squawk Box\".\n\nOn August 8, 2007, the show was renamed—and replaced—by \"The Call\". The name change to \"The Call\" with Dylan Ratigan (who left the show in late 2008 and was replaced by Larry Kudlow), Melissa Francis, and Trish Regan on that date was due in part to avoid confusion with the early-morning Bloomberg Television program of the same name.\n\nThe following segments below were carried over to \"The Call\" as of 2007-08-08:\n\n\nThe following segments below moved to the second hour of \"Squawk on the Street\" as of 2007-07-23:\n\n\nOccasionally, \"Morning Call\" was broadcast live on location, such as the NYMEX. One of these examples came on May 31, 2007, when this program was named \"Morning Call\", Liz Claman anchored the entire 2-hour program from the NYMEX (along with Haines at the NYSE for the first hour and Ratigan at CNBC Global Headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, NJ for the second hour). She was joined on location at the NYMEX by Sharon Epperson on the day the weekly crude oil, gasoline, distillate, and natural gas inventories report were released by the EIA.\n\nThe second hour of \"Morning Call\" was not seen on CNBC Europe as the European network instead aired \"European Closing Bell\" at 1700 Central European Time. As of July 19, 2007, this program (which was later renamed \"The Call\", as mentioned above) is no longer broadcast on CNBC Europe apart from on European market holidays and during daylight saving time.\n\nAround CNBC's global branches, there were many variations of \"Morning Call\" around the world:\n\n"}
{"id": "31882008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31882008", "title": "Neo-classical contract", "text": "Neo-classical contract\n\nA Neo-classical contract is a form of contract, defined by McNeil, describing a contract dependent upon trilateral governance, in which \"third party assistance\" is used for resolving disputes or evaluating performance. Such contracts form a distinct group, along with classical and relational contracts, in McNeil's system of classification.\n"}
{"id": "45493778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45493778", "title": "Olivier Brandicourt", "text": "Olivier Brandicourt\n\nOlivier Brandicourt (born 13 February 1956 in Casablanca) is a French business executive and physician, and the current chief executive officer of Sanofi.\n\nOlivier Brandicourt studied medicine in Paris and specialized in infectious diseases and tropical medicine. He spent eight years with the Institute of Infectious and Tropical Diseases of the Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris, where he focused on malaria research in West and Central Africa. Prior to that, he spent two years in the Republic of the Congo as a doctor.\n\nHe holds an Advanced Degree in Cellular and Immunological Pathophysiology (Paris Descartes University) and a Master’s Degree in Biology (University of Paris XII).\n\nOlivier Brandicourt was appointed CEO of Sanofi in February 2015.\n\nBefore that, between 2013 and 2015, he was chief executive officer and chairman of the board of management of Bayer HealthCare AG, where he was responsible for leading the company’s healthcare portfolio globally, encompassing pharmaceuticals, consumer care, animal health and medical care businesses.\n\nBrandicourt joined Pfizer in 2000, after its acquisition of Warner-Lambert/Parke-David, where he started his career, first in Medical Affairs and later in Marketing and Management. He spent 12 years at Pfizer Inc where he held several senior positions across a range of disciplines, including President and General Manager of the Global Specialty Care and Primary Care businesses, and later as President and General Manager of the Primary Care Business Unit. He served as a member of the executive leadership team of Pfizer Inc. and oversaw the introduction of the cholesterol treatment Lipitor. In 2007, he was the supervisor of the failed launch of the Exubera.\n\nIn February 2015, Olivier Brandicourt was appointed as the chief executive officer of Sanofi. His golden handshake of US$4.5 million upon taking on the appointment was criticized by French Ministers Stéphane Le Foll and Ségolène Royal.\n\nIn November 2015, Sanofi announced its 2020 Strategic Plan that implies reshaping its activities into 3 portfolios: Diabetes, cardiovascular, and vaccines. In May 2016, Olivier Brandicourt announced a reshuffle in the company's management, in line with the 2020 Strategic Plan. In january 2017, Sanofi completed an asset swap of its animal health business, Merial, for Boehringer's consumer healthcare business, CHC. Subsequently, Sanofi launched a fifth Global Business Unit for Consumer Health Care.\n\n"}
{"id": "22050884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22050884", "title": "Ong Soo Hin", "text": "Ong Soo Hin\n\nOng Soo Hin is a Malaysian Chinese businessman and head of a salvaging company in south-east Asia.\n\nHe was born to Chinese parents in Malaysia. He was business partners with marine salvor Mike Hatcher.\n\nIn 1996, Ong Soo Hin teamed up with Oxford University archaeologist Mensun Bound to work with Vietnam's National History Museum in excavating the Hoi An Wreck site off the coast of Hoi An, Vietnam. The project took four years and cost an estimated $14 million. Over 250,000 intact examples of Vietnamese ceramic were recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "5106889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106889", "title": "Pakistan Federation of Business and Professional Women", "text": "Pakistan Federation of Business and Professional Women\n\nPakistan Federation of Business And Professional Women is based Islamabad, Pakistan. \n\n"}
{"id": "36847187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36847187", "title": "Performance-based contracting", "text": "Performance-based contracting\n\nPerformance based contracting (PBC), also known as performance-based logistics (PBL) or performance-based acquisition, is a product support strategy used to achieve measurable supplier performance. A PBC approach focuses on developing strategic performance metrics and directly relating contracting payment to performance against these metrics. Common metrics include availability, reliability, maintainability, supportability and total cost of ownership. The primary means of accomplishing this are through incentivized, long-term contracts with specific and measurable levels of operational performance defined by the customer and agreed on by contracting parties. The incentivized performance measures aim to motivate the supplier to implement enhanced practices that offer improved performance and cost effective. This stands in contrast to the conventional transaction-based, or waterfall approach, where payment is related to completion of milestones and project deliverables.\n\nPerformance-Based approaches are most widely used the defense industry, but can be applied across any spend category.\n\nPBC is about buying performance, not transactional goods and services, through an integrated acquisition and logistics process delivering improved capability to a range of products and services. PBC is a support strategy that places primary emphasis on optimising system support to meet the needs of the user. PBCs delineate outcome performance goals, ensure that responsibilities are assigned, provide incentives for attaining these goals, and facilitate the overall life-cycle management of system reliability, supportability, and total ownership costs.\nA PBC in practice involves a contracting agency (who are contracting the work to an external provider) and a contractor (who are responsible for completing the work set out in the contract). Several other parties are often involved, including subcontractors, a legal team and consultants. These parties work for both contracting agency and contractor completing various elements of work associated with contract development, contracted work completion or performance management / measurement.\n\nUnited States federal law defines performance-based acquisition and treats it as \"the preferred method for acquiring services\".\n\nA typical process for implementing a PBC is as follows:\n\n\nPBC is the name used in Australia, New Zealand and Canada to describe the practice of attaching contract payment to a set of performance metrics. It is commonly known as performance-based logistics in the US and Contracting for Availability or Contractor Logistics Support in the UK. Although it was developed in the US for defence applications, and is most actively applied there, PBC strategies are growing in popularity around the world and in industry sectors other than defence. In particular, PBC frameworks are becoming popular in shipping, transport, health services and the energy sector.\n\nAlternative terms include: \n\nPBC is widely applied in the Australian defence sector, primarily by the major acquisition and support organisation, the Defence Material Organisation (DMO). It is particularly useful in the defence environment because of the inherent complexity and large scale of the projects. Recently, Australian Defence has initiated an escalation of the use of PBCs with the strategic aims of improving capability outcomes and reducing total cost of ownership. In Australia and the US, PBC frameworks are most commonly applied in Defence situations.\n\nPBC frameworks are currently being used in numerous Defence related projects, including:\n\nAlthough it is applied primarily in the defence environment, PBC is becoming more popular in a broader range of private and public sector organisations as they seek to reduce costs and create a closer link between expenditure and performance goals.\n\nAreas outside defence where PBC is applied include:\nSome examples:\n\nProcurement/Sourcing Business Models\n\nA performance-based model is one of seven Sourcing Business Models.\nSourcing Business Models theory is a systems-based approach to structuring supplier relationships. A sourcing business model is a type of business model that is applied to business relationships where more than one party needs to work with another party to be successful. There are seven sourcing business models that range from the transactional to investment-based. The seven models are: Basic Provider, Approved Provider, Preferred Provider, Performance-Based/Managed Services Model, Vested Business Model, Shared Services Model, and Equity Partnership Model. Sourcing business models are targeted for procurement professionals seeking a modern approach for achieving the best fit between buyers and suppliers. Sourcing business model theory is based on a collaborative research effort by the University of Tennessee (UT), the Sourcing Industry Group (SIG) the Center for Outsourcing Research and Education (CORE), and the International Association for Contracts and Commercial Management (IACCM). Their initial research formed the basis for the 2015 book, \"Strategic Sourcing in the New Economy: Harnessing the Potential of Sourcing Business Models in Modern Procurement.\"\n\nThere is discussion about the efficacy of PBC as a product support measure. However, there is significant research to suggest that PBC can reduce costs and result in better supplier outputs/performance against metrics than traditional contracting approaches, such as transaction-based contracts. The U.S. Department of Defense/Air Force/Defense Acquisition University sponsored a research project conducted by the University of Tennessee study An American study into the effectiveness of PBC frameworks in Defence projects. The study found that projects employing a true PBC framework resulted in substantially lower costs and improved system readiness / capability when compared to non-PBC arrangements. The U.S. Department of Defense has many documented case studies from award winning PBL contracts.\n\nIn addition, a study by Booz Allen Hamilton found that even incorporating a small amount of a PBC framework into weapons system support will create positive results.\n\nIn a more general sense, implementing a PBC framework has a broad range of benefits for organisations, contractors and contracting agencies, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "401805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401805", "title": "Prime Time Entertainment Network", "text": "Prime Time Entertainment Network\n\nThe Prime Time Entertainment Network (PTEN) was an American television network that was operated by the Prime Time Consortium, a joint venture between the Warner Bros. Domestic Television subsidiary of Time Warner and Chris-Craft Industries. First launched on January 20, 1993 and operating until 1997, the network mainly aired drama programs aimed at adults between the ages of 18 and 54. At its peak, PTEN's programming was carried on 177 television stations, covering 93% of the country.\n\nAt the time of PTEN's founding, co-owner Chris-Craft Industries owned independent television stations in several large and mid-sized U.S. cities (among them its two largest stations, WWOR-TV in New York City and KCOP-TV in Los Angeles) through its BHC Communications and United Television divisions, which formed the nuclei of the network.\n\nPTEN was launched as a potential fifth television network, and was created in reaction to the success of the Fox network (which debuted in October 1986, seven years before PTEN launched) as well as the successes of first-run syndicated programming during the late 1980s and early 1990s. It offered packaged nights of programming to participating television stations, beginning with a two-hour block on Wednesday evenings, with a second block (originally airing on Saturday, before moving to Monday for the 1994-95 season) being added in September 1993. Originally, the station groups involved in the Prime Time Consortium helped finance PTEN's programs; however, that deal was restructured at the beginning of the network's second year.\n\nThe service sought affiliations with various television stations not affiliated with the Big Three television networks. However, close to half of PTEN's initial affiliates were stations that were already affiliated with Fox; as a result, these stations usually scheduled PTEN programming around Fox's then five-night prime time schedule (although Fox would expand its schedule to seven nights with the addition of programming on Tuesdays and Wednesdays on January 19, 1993, the day before PTEN launched). PTEN launched on January 20, 1993, with two series: the science fiction series \"Time Trax\" and the action drama \"\".\n\nPTEN faced two obstacles created by its parent companies, that would affect the network. On November 2, 1993, the Warner Bros. Entertainment division of Time Warner announced that it would form its own fifth network, The WB Television Network, as a joint venture with the Tribune Company, Six days earlier, on October 27, Chris-Craft Industries announced the launch of the United Paramount Network (UPN), in a programming partnership with Paramount Television (which would become part-owner of the network in 1996). As a result, the core Chris-Craft independent stations (as well as those owned by Paramount) would serve as charter stations of the new network; Chris-Craft also chose to pull out of the partnership to focus on operating UPN.\n\nThe network also faced issues from some PTEN-affiliated stations that took issue with the network's barter split, which gave nine minutes of advertising time per hour to the syndicator, leaving only five minutes for the stations to sell and program locally. PTEN also ran into difficulty when the studio was forced to let stations out of their back-end commitments for several series. PTEN adopted a variable schedule for the 1995-96 season, for affiliates to schedule around The WB and UPN's programming on the night of their choosing. With Chris-Craft pulling out of the venture, PTEN essentially became a syndication service for its remaining shows. The network ceased operations in 1997. One of the two series that aired during the service's final year of operation, the science fiction drama \"Babylon 5\", would later be revived by TNT, where it aired for a fifth and final season beginning in 1998.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46933964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46933964", "title": "Prodigy Finance", "text": "Prodigy Finance\n\nProdigy Finance is a fintech platform that enables financing for international postgraduate students who attend a participating business school or postgraduate institution.\n\nProdigy Finance's loans are collectively funded by a community of alumni, institutional investors and qualified private investors who receive a financial and social return; while the borrower gains access to higher education that they might not otherwise be able to finance.\n\nThis borderless credit model enables educational loan financing to international students, whilst using predicted post-degree affordability rather than present-day salary. Since 2007, Prodigy Finance has disbursed over US$410 million through the platform to fund over 9,400 students from 118 nationalities. Offering competitive interest rates and requiring no collateral or co-signer, Prodigy Finance is focused on making education accessible. Prodigy Finance is registered in London with offices in London, Cape Town and New York.\n\nThree INSEAD MBA graduates conceptualised Prodigy Finance during their studies in 2006, as their experience highlighted an opportunity to bridge the financing gap often experienced by high-potential international postgraduate students looking to attend a top school. Prodigy Finance was founded in 2007 with the intention of addressing this challenge, as Prodigy Finance Founder Cameron Stevens experienced himself. The Prodigy Finance concept was recognised at the 2006 International Venture Capital Investment Competition at INSEAD, resulting in the initial seed money for the company.\n\nProdigy Finance started with a peer-to-peer funding programme for INSEAD students. Alumni invested in bonds which enabled students to study their MBA at that institution. Leveraging this peer-to-peer lending, Prodigy Finance began offering loans to MBA candidates enrolled at other leading business schools.\n\nIn 2014, Prodigy Finance announced the launch of a US$25 million Education Note in partnership with the Credit Suisse Impact Investing and Microfinance team. The Education Note has a focus on students from emerging markets, enabling them to study at top postgraduate programmes.\n\nIn 2015, Prodigy Finance announced a $12.5 million equity investment from Balderton Capital and various angel investors, and $110 million in loan capital from Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank and other private investors.\n\nIn 2017, Prodigy Finance announced a $240 million fundraise. This included a $40 million Series C equity round led by international venture capital firm Index Ventures, with participation from Balderton Capital and AlphaCode; and a $200 million debt facility led by a global investment bank. \n\nProdigy Finance supports postgraduate programmes in the fields of business, engineering, public policy, law and health sciences. \n\nThis includes the Financial Times Top 100 ranked business schools, such as INSEAD, Wharton, Chicago Booth, Columbia Business School, London Business School, NUS, University of Oxford’s Saïd Business School, Stanford, and Yale School of Management.\n\nTo be eligible for a loan, students must be studying outside of their home country, or country of residence. One exception is in the United Kingdom, as Prodigy Finance can lend to domestic students. Applicants must already be accepted at a participating institution to qualify.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50654739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50654739", "title": "Pádraig Ó Céidigh", "text": "Pádraig Ó Céidigh\n\nPádraig Ó Céidigh (; born 1 February 1957) is an Irish Independent politician and redeveloper of Aer Arann Express and Aer Lingus Regional who has served as a member of Seanad Éireann since May 2016, after being nominated by the Taoiseach.\n\nHe gained a B.Comm. from University College Galway in 1978. He worked as an accountant and then as a teacher at Coláiste Iognáid, went on to study law and began practicing with his own firm in the city.\n\nHe ran unsuccessfully for one of the three Seanad seats allocated to the National University of Ireland, losing on transfers despite being third on first preferences, but was nominated to the Seanad by the Taoiseach on 11 May 2016.\n\nÓ Céidigh served as a Member of the Governing Board of the Irish state broadcaster RTÉ prior to his appointment to Seanad Éireann.\n\nIn March 2018, he announced his intention to stand in the 2018 presidential election against incumbent President Michael D. Higgins, as an Independent candidate.\n"}
{"id": "162017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162017", "title": "Rayon", "text": "Rayon\n\nRayon is a manufactured fiber made from regenerated cellulose fiber. The many types and grades of rayon can imitate the feel and texture of natural fibers such as silk, wool, cotton, and linen. The types that resemble silk are often called artificial silk. \n\nRayon is made from purified cellulose, primarily from wood pulp, which is chemically converted into a soluble compound. It is then dissolved and forced through a spinneret to produce filaments which are chemically solidified, resulting in fibers of nearly pure cellulose.\n\nBecause rayon is manufactured from naturally occurring polymers, it is considered a semisynthetic fiber, whereas in precise usage the term synthetic fiber is sometimes reserved for fully synthetic fibers. Specific types of rayon include viscose, modal and lyocell, each of which differs in manufacturing process and properties of the finished product.\n\nWorkers can be seriously harmed by the carbon disulfide used to make most rayon.\n\nThe solubility of nitrocellulose in organic solvents such as ether and acetone was the basis for the first \"artificial silk\" by Georges Audemars in about 1855. Although it is chemically distinct from rayon, cellulose was successfully solubilized albeit with chemical modification. Commercial production started in 1891, but the result was flammable and more expensive than cellulose acetate or cuprammonium rayon. Because of this expense, production ceased early in the 1900s. Nitrocellulose was briefly known as \"mother-in-law silk\". Frank Hastings Griffin invented the double-godet, a special stretch-spinning process that changed artificial silk to rayon, rendering it usable in many industrial products such as tire cords and clothing. Nathan Rosenstein invented the \"spunize process\" by which he turned rayon from a hard fiber to a fabric. This allowed rayon to become a popular raw material in textiles.\n\nRayon should not be confused with acetate (cellulose acetate) or triacetate. These terms have often been used interchangeably in the past but are now distinct. While rayon reconstitutes the natural cellulose polymer, the older acetate process reacts cellulose with acetic anhydride to form cellulose acetate. Furthermore, rayon production requires carbon disulfide as a solvent while acetate uses considerably safer solvents such as acetone. However, rayon is a more robust fiber than the otherwise similar acetate, and has come to dominate.\n\nSwiss chemist Matthias Eduard Schweizer (1818–1860) discovered that cellulose dissolved in tetraaminecopper dihydroxide. Max Fremery and Johann Urban developed a method to produce carbon fibers for use in light bulbs in 1897. Production of cuprammonium rayon for textiles started in 1899 in the Vereinigte Glanzstoff Fabriken AG in Oberbruch near Aachen. Improvement by the J. P. Bemberg AG in 1904 made the artificial silk a product comparable to real silk.\n\nEnglish chemist Charles Frederick Cross and his collaborators, Edward John Bevan and Clayton Beadle, patented their artificial silk in 1894. They named their material \"viscose\", because its production involved the intermediacy of a highly viscous solution. The process built on the reaction of cellulose with a strong base, followed by treatment of that solution with carbon disulfide to give a xanthate derivative. The xanthate is then converted back to a cellulose fiber in a subsequent step. The first commercial viscose rayon was produced by the U.K. company Courtaulds Fibres in 1905. Courtaulds formed an American division, American Viscose, (later known as Avtex Fibers) to produce their formulation in the United States in 1910. The name \"rayon\" was adopted in 1924, with \"viscose\" being used for the viscous organic liquid used to make both rayon and cellophane. In Europe, though, the fabric itself became known as \"viscose\", which has been ruled an acceptable alternative term for rayon by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC).\n\nThe viscose method can use wood as a source of cellulose, whereas other routes to rayon require lignin-free cellulose as starting material. The use of woody sources of cellulose makes viscose cheaper, so it was used on a larger scale than the other methods. On the other hand, the viscose process affords large amounts of contaminated waste water. Rayon was produced only as a filament fiber until the 1930s, when methods were developed to utilize \"broken waste rayon\" as staple fiber.\n\nThe physical properties of rayon remain unchanged until the development of high-tenacity rayon in the 1940s. Further research and development led to high-wet-modulus rayon (HWM rayon) in the 1950s. Research in the UK was centred on the government-funded British Rayon Research Association.\n\nIndustrial applications of rayon emerged around 1935. Substituting cotton fiber in tires and belts, industrial types of rayon developed a totally different set of properties, amongst which tensile strength (elasticity) was paramount.\n\nThe Lyocell process relies on dissolution of cellulose products in a solvent, N-methylmorpholine N-oxide. The process starts with woody sources of cellulose and involves dry jet-wet spinning. It was developed at the now defunct American Enka and Courtaulds Fibres. As of 2013, Lenzing's Tencel brand is perhaps the most widely known lyocell fiber producer.\n\nModal is a type of rayon, a semi-synthetic cellulose fiber made by spinning reconstituted cellulose, in this case often from beech trees. Modal is used alone or with other fibers (often cotton or spandex) in clothing and household items such as pajamas, underwear, bathrobes, towels, and bedsheets. \n\nModal is processed under different conditions to produce a fiber that is stronger and more stable when it is wet than standard rayon, yet has a soft feel, similar to cotton. It can be tumble dried without damage due to its increased molecular alignment. The fabric has been known to pill less than cotton due to fiber properties and lower surface friction.\n\nMicro-Modal is a variant of Modal textiles. The material is softer than cotton and has desirable properties that include higher resistance to shrinking and moisture wicking.\n\nRayon is a versatile fiber and is widely claimed to have the same comfort properties as natural fibers, although the drape and slipperiness of rayon textiles are often more like nylon. It can imitate the feel and texture of silk, wool, cotton and linen. The fibers are easily dyed in a wide range of colors. Rayon fabrics are soft, smooth, cool, comfortable, and highly absorbent, but they do not insulate body heat, making them ideal for use in hot and humid climates, although also making their \"hand\" (feel) cool and sometimes almost slimy to the touch.\n\nThe durability and appearance retention of regular viscose rayon are low, especially when wet; also, rayon has the lowest elastic recovery of any fiber. However, HWM rayon (high-wet-modulus rayon) is much stronger and exhibits higher durability and appearance retention. Recommended care for regular viscose rayon is dry-cleaning only. HWM rayon can be machine-washed.\n\nRayon industrial yarns outperform polyester and are produced for belts in high performance tires (e.g. Cordenka, Germany).\n\nRegular rayon has lengthwise lines called striations and its cross-section is an indented circular shape. The cross-sections of HWM and cupra rayon are rounder. Filament rayon yarns vary from 80 to 980 filaments per yarn and vary in size from 40 to 5000 denier. Staple fibers range from 1.5 to 15 denier and are mechanically or chemically crimped. Rayon fibers are naturally very bright, but the addition of delustering pigments cuts down on this natural brightness.\n\n\"Regular rayon\" (or \"viscose\") is the most widely produced form of rayon. This method of rayon production has been used since the early 1900s and it has the ability to produce either filament or staple fibers. The process is as follows:\n\n\n\"High wet modulus rayon (HWM)\" is a modified version of viscose that has a greater strength when wet. It also has the ability to be mercerized like cotton. HWM rayons are also known as \"polynosic.\" Polynosic fibers are dimensionally stable, and do not shrink or get pulled out of shape when wet like many rayons. They are also wear resistant and strong while maintaining a soft, silky feel. They are sometimes identified by the trade name Modal.\n\n\"High-tenacity rayon\" is another modified version of viscose that has almost twice the strength of HWM. This type of rayon is typically used for industrial purposes such as tire cord.\n\n\"Cuprammonium rayon\" has properties similar to viscose; however, during its production, the cellulose is combined with copper and ammonia (Schweizer's reagent). Due to the detrimental environmental effects of this production method, cuprammonium rayon is no longer produced in the United States.\n\n\"See also Viscose#Pollution and harm to workers\"\n\nHighly toxic carbon disulfide is used in the production of viscose, leading to many incidents and legal cases. However, the volatile carbon disulfide is lost before the rayon gets to the consumer; the rayon itself is basically pure cellulose. Studies from the 1930s show that 30% of American rayon workers suffered severe effects. Rates of disability in modern factories (mainly in China, Indonesia and India) are unknown.\n\nThe biodegradability of various fibers in soil burial and sewage sludge was evaluated by Korean researchers. Rayon was found to be more biodegradable than cotton, and cotton more than acetate. The more water-repellent the rayon-based fabric, the more slowly it will decompose. Silverfish can eat rayon. \n\nA recent ocean survey found that rayon contributed to 56.9% of the total fibers found in deep ocean areas, the rest being polyester, polyamides, acetate and acrylic.\n\nRising cotton prices in 2010 led clothing makers to begin replacing cotton with rayon in their fabrics. As demand for rayon increases, companies such as Fortress Paper have been investing in pulp mills to increase production. Rayon now sells for as much as $2.70 per pound, which has led to an increase in the retail price of clothing made with rayon, yet rayon has a price advantage over cotton.\n\n\"See also Bamboo textile\"\n\nIn 2010, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission issued letters informing over 100 companies that they were mislabeling products made of rayon as being made from bamboo, deceiving environmentally conscious consumers. In 2015, the FTC filed complaints against Bed Bath & Beyond, Nordstrom, J.C. Penney, Backcountry.com, and their subsidiaries, for continuing to deceptively sell rayon mislabeled as bamboo. The four companies were required to pay civil penalties totaling for violating the \"Textile Act and the Textile Rules\" and Section 5(m)(1)(B) of the FTC Act. Similar action took place in Canada.\n\nRayon contributed partly to the decline of the US textile industry in the 1920s. It is far cheaper to produce than wool, cotton, or silk. It also requires less processing and hence fewer workers. In addition, it was 50% cheaper than silk during the 1920s in the US. Then, it was used initially for men's socks but later for lingerie and women's stockings.\n\nTrade names are used within the rayon industry to label the type of rayon in the product. Viscose Rayon was first produced in Coventry England in 1905 by Courtaulds.\n\n\"Bemberg\" is a trade name for cupramonium rayon developed by J. P. Bemberg. Bemberg performs much like viscose but has a smaller diameter and comes closest to silk in feel. Bemberg is no longer produced in Italy, but is still produced in Japan, due to United States Environmental Protection Agency regulations in the US. The fibers are finer than viscose rayon.\n\n\"Modal\" and \"Tencel\" are widely used forms of rayon produced by Lenzing AG. Tencel, generic name \"lyocell\", is made by a slightly different solvent recovery process, and is considered a different fiber by the US FTC. Tencel lyocell was first produced commercially by Courtaulds' Grimsby plant in England. The process, which dissolves cellulose without a chemical reaction, was developed by Courtaulds Research.\n\nAccordis was a major manufacturer of cellulose based fibers and yarns. Production facilities can be found throughout Europe, the U.S. and Brazil.\n\n\"Visil rayon\" is a flame retardant form of viscose which has silica embedded in the fiber during manufacturing.\n\nNorth American Rayon Corporation of Tennessee produced viscose rayon until its closure in the year 2000.\n\nGrasim of India is the largest producer of rayon in the world (claiming 24% market share). It has plants in Nagda, Kharach and Harihar – all in India, as well as joint ventures in Canada, Laos and China.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "691619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=691619", "title": "Tax lien", "text": "Tax lien\n\nA tax lien is a lien imposed by law upon a property to secure the payment of taxes. A tax lien may be imposed for delinquent taxes owed on real property or personal property, or as a result of failure to pay income taxes or other taxes.\nIn the United States, a federal tax lien may arise in connection with any kind of federal tax, including but not limited to income tax, gift tax, or estate tax.\n\nInternal Revenue Code section 6321 provides:\n\nInternal Revenue Code section 6322 provides:\n\nThe term \"assessment\" refers to the statutory assessment made by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) under (that is, the formal recording of the tax in the official books and records at the office of the Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Treasury). Generally, the \"person liable to pay any tax\" described in section 6321 must pay the tax within ten days of the written \"notice and demand\". If the taxpayer fails to pay the tax within the ten-day period, the tax lien arises automatically (i.e., by operation of law), and is \"effective retroactively to (i.e., arises at) the date of the assessment\", even though the ten-day period necessarily expires after the assessment date.\n\nUnder the doctrine of \"Glass City Bank v. United States\", the tax lien applies not only to property and rights to property owned by the taxpayer at the time of the assessment, but also to after-acquired property (i.e., to any property owned by the taxpayer during the life of the lien).\n\nThe statute of limitations under which a federal tax lien may become \"unenforceable by reason of lapse of time\" is found at . For taxes assessed on or after November 6, 1990, the lien generally becomes unenforceable ten years after the date of assessment. For taxes assessed on or before November 5, 1990, a prior version of section 6502 provides for a limitations period of six years after the date of assessment. Various exceptions may extend the time periods.\n\nA federal tax lien arising by law as described above is valid against the taxpayer without any further action by the government.\n\nThe general rule is that where two or more creditors have competing liens against the same property, the creditor whose lien was perfected at the earlier time takes priority over the creditor whose lien was perfected at a later time (there are exceptions to this rule). Thus, if the government (which is treated as a \"creditor\" with respect to unpaid taxes) properly files a Notice of Federal Tax Lien (NFTL) before another creditor can perfect its own lien, the tax lien will often take priority over the other lien.\n\nTo \"perfect\" the tax lien (to create a priority right) against persons other than the taxpayer (such as competing creditors), the government generally must file the NFTL in the records of the county or state where the property is located, with the rules varying from state to state. At the time the notice is filed, public notice is deemed to have been given to the third parties (especially the taxpayer's other creditors, etc.) that the Internal Revenue Service has a claim against all property owned by the taxpayer as of the assessment date (which is generally prior to the date the NFTL is filed), and to all property acquired by the taxpayer after the assessment date (as noted above, the lien attaches to all of a taxpayer's property such as homes, land and vehicles and to all of a taxpayer's rights to property such as promissory notes or accounts receivable). Although the federal tax lien is effective against the taxpayer on the assessment date, the \"priority\" right against third party creditors arises at a later time: the date the NFTL is filed. The form and content of the notice of federal tax lien is governed only by federal law, regardless of any requirements of state or local law.\n\nIn certain cases, the lien of another creditor (or the interest of an owner) may take priority over a federal tax lien even if the NFTL was filed before the other creditor's lien was perfected (or before the owner's interest was acquired). Some examples include the liens of certain purchasers of securities, liens on certain motor vehicles, and the interest held by a retail purchaser of certain personal property.\n\nFederal law also allows a state—if the state legislature so elects by statute—to enjoy a higher priority than the federal tax lien with respect to certain state tax liens on property where the related tax is based on the \"value of that property\". For example, the lien based on the annual real estate property tax in Texas takes priority over the federal tax lien, even where an NFTL for the federal lien was recorded prior to the time the Texas tax lien arose, and even though no notice of the Texas tax lien is required to be filed or recorded at all.\n\nIn order to have the record of a lien released a taxpayer must obtain a Certificate of Release of Federal Tax Lien. Generally, the IRS will not issue a certificate of release of lien until the tax has either been paid in full or the IRS no longer has a legal interest in collecting the tax. The IRS has standardized procedures for lien releases, discharges and subordination. In situations that qualify for the removal of a lien, the IRS will generally remove the lien within 30 days and the taxpayer may receive a copy of the Certificate of Release of Federal Tax Lien. The current form of the Notice of Federal Tax Lien utilized by the IRS contains a provision that provides that the NFTL is released by its own terms at the conclusion of the statute of limitations period described above provided that the NFTL has not been refiled by the date indicated on the form. The effect of this provision is that the NFTL operates as a Certificate of Release of Federal Tax Lien on the day after the date indicated in the form by its own terms.\n\nThe creation of a tax lien, and the subsequent issuance of a Notice of Federal Tax Lien, should not be confused with the issuance of a Notice of Intent to Levy under , or with the actual act of levy under . The term \"levy\" in this narrow technical sense denotes an \"administrative action\" by the Internal Revenue Service (i.e., without going to court) to seize property to satisfy a tax liability. The levy \"includes the power of distraint and seizure \"by any means\". The general rule is that no court permission is required for the IRS to execute a section 6331 levy.\n\nIn other words, the federal tax lien is the government's statutory right that encumbers property to secure the ultimate payment of a tax. The notice of levy is an IRS notice that the IRS intends to seize property in the near future. The levy is the actual act of seizure of the property.\n\nIn general, a Notice of Intent to Levy must be issued by the IRS at least thirty days prior to the actual levy. Thus, while a Notice of Federal Tax Lien generally is issued \"after\" the tax lien arises, a Notice of Intent to Levy (sometimes misleadingly called simply a \"notice of levy\") generally must be issued \"before\" the actual levy is made.\n\nAlso, while the federal tax lien applies to all property and rights to property of the taxpayer, the power to levy is subject to certain restrictions. That is, certain property covered by the lien may be \"exempt\" from an administrative levy (property covered by the lien that is exempt from administrative levy may, however, be taken by the IRS if the IRS obtains a court judgment).\n\nA detailed discussion of the administrative levy, and the related Notice, is beyond the scope of this article.\n\nIn connection with federal taxes in the United States, the term \"levy\" also has a separate, more general sense of \"imposed.\" That is, when a tax law is enacted by the Congress, the tax is said to be \"imposed\" or \"levied.\"\n\nA properly submitted offer in compromise does not affect a tax lien, which remains effective until the offer is accepted and the offered amount is fully paid. Once the compromised amount is paid, the taxpayer should request removal of the lien.\n\nIn the United States, a tax lien may be placed on a house or any other real property on which property tax is due (such as an empty tract of land, a boat dock, or even a parking place).\n\nEach county has varying rules and regulations regarding what tax is due, and when it is due. The related forms may be tax lien certificates or tax deed certificates.\n\nTax lien certificates are issued immediately upon the failure of the property owner to pay. These forms describe a lien on the property. The liens are generally in first position over every other encumbrance on the property, including liens secured by loans against the property.\n\nTax lien states are Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Jersey, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Carolina, South Dakota, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wyoming. The District of Columbia is also a tax lien jurisdiction.\n\nTax deeds are issued after the owner of the property has failed to pay the taxes. Tax deeds are issued in connection with auctions in which the property is sold outright. The starting bid is often only for the back taxes owed, although the situation may vary from one county to another.\n\nTax deed states are Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin \n\nTax liens and tax deeds can be purchased by an individual investor.\n\nIn the case of tax liens, interest can be earned. If the property is redeemed then the investor would recover invested money, plus interest due after the lien was purchased. If the property is not redeemed, the deed holder or lien holder has first position to own the property after any other taxes or fees are due.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48456752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48456752", "title": "Technoflex", "text": "Technoflex\n\nTechnoflex International (commonly named Technoflex) is a Canadian company headquartered in Bois-des-Filion, Canada that designs, develops and distributes products made from 100% recycled post-consumer materials. The company was founded in 1993 in Longueuil, Canada by former CEO Jean-Luc Hebert and Pierre Bourgeois.\n\nIn 2009, Technoflex became part of a private Canadian consortium. The new owners aimed to position Technoflex as a market leader in their industry sector. A year later, in 2010, the head office and the manufacturing operations of Technoflex moved to a new facility on Montreal’s North Shore to ensure high potential growth. In 2014, Technoflex create a partnership with CCPME (Desjardins Development capital) to ensure its fast growth by financing some of its operations with Desjardins Group development capital. CCPME is an investment fund that provides Québec SMEs patient capital to support them in their expansion, R&D and business acquisition.\n\nThe core business of Technoflex is retail. They mainly manufacture and distribute retail products for the end consumer to home improvement retailers all around the globe such as Lowe's, Canadian Tire, Rona, Inc., Brico Dépôt, Castorama and much more. Technoflex begins its first commercializing activities with the Secure Step, an anti-slip stair tread made of recycled rubber tires.\n\nThe second core business of Technoflex is traffic safety. They manufacture and distribute traffic safety products such as speed bumps, speed humps, parking curbs, signalling bases and much more to specialized companies in Canada and United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "33719972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33719972", "title": "Thomas Burke (businessman)", "text": "Thomas Burke (businessman)\n\nThomas Michael Burke, CMG (30 June 1870 – 16 February 1949) was an Australian businessman and philanthropist.\n\nBurke was born at Norval, near Ararat in Victoria, to Dublin-born miner William Marcus Burke and Aberdeen-born Mary Ann, \"née\" Florence. He attended Norval State School and Ararat High School before becoming a railway clerk in 1887, overseeing first Spencer Street station and then Ararat from 1892. On 25 July 1898 he married Margaret Duggan Brady at St Mary's Catholic Church at Ararat. He was involved in the later stages of the Federation movement as president of the local branch of the Australian Natives' Association (ANA) and vice-president (1900–01) and chief president (1902–03) of the Victorian ANA.\n\nBurke was appointed secretary of the Civil Service Co-operative Society of Victoria in March 1902 and was involved in the railway workers' clash with the Irvine government; later that year he resigned from the railways and founded the Civil Service Co-operative Store in Flinders Street. An ardent protectionist, he contested the 1914 federal election as the Labor candidate for Corangamite but was defeated. He sold the Co-operative Store in 1915 and entered the real estate business, and by 1924 was also involved in finance and investment, with offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Adelaide and various country centres.\n\nBurke survived the Depression and during the 1930s his company, T. M. Burke Pty Ltd, had established branches in Auckland, Singapore and London. He retired from everyday management of the business in May 1936, but remained chairman of directors. He held several other positions in addition to his business interests, serving as president of the Breeders, Owners and Trainers' Association of Victoria (as an avid horse racer), member (1931–49) and chairman (1936–39, 1944–45) of the Victorian Hospitals and Charities Board, member of the Victorian Council of the Australian Red Cross, and consul for Poland (1933–49). He also gave financial support to the Melbourne University Conservatorium Symphony Orchestra, and donated both land and money to the Catholic Church; he was inaugural national chairman of the Knights of the Southern Cross, accepted a chalice from Pope Pius XI on behalf of Australian Catholic businessman, and lobbied for state aid to Catholic schools.\n\nAppointed Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1942, Burke retired to Armadale. He died of cancer in 1949.\n"}
{"id": "8570212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8570212", "title": "Undue hardship", "text": "Undue hardship\n\nAn undue hardship is special or specified circumstances that partially or fully exempt a person or organization from performance of a legal obligation so as to avoid an unreasonable or disproportionate burden or obstacle.\n\nFor example, employers are required to provide a reasonable accommodation to qualified individuals with disabilities, but when an accommodation becomes too taxing on the organization it is classified as an undue hardship and is no longer required. \nThese hardships include the nature and cost of the accommodation in relation to the size, resources, nature, and structure of the employer's operation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21313105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21313105", "title": "World Bank residual model", "text": "World Bank residual model\n\nThe World Bank residual model, in economics, refers to a widely used model by economists to measure illicit financial flows. The data sources for this analysis are the large-scale macroeconomic databases maintained by the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. \n\nIn order to estimate illicit financial flows, this method measures a country's source of funds (inflows of capital) against its recorded use (outflows and/or expenditures of capital). Source of funds includes increases in net external indebtedness of the public sector and the net inflow of foreign direct investment. Use of funds includes the current account deficit that is financed by the capital account flows and additions to central bank reserves. An excess source of funds over the recorded use (or expenditures) points to a loss of unaccounted-for capital, and, as such, indicates illicit financial outflow.\n"}
