{"id": "40790316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40790316", "title": "2013 European Truck Racing Championship", "text": "2013 European Truck Racing Championship\n\nThe 2013 FIA European Truck Racing Championship was a motor-racing championship using highly tuned tractor units producing over 1000 bhp. It was the 29th year of the championship and Jochen Hahn won the title for the third year in a row with MAN.\n\nSince Heinz-Werner Lenz, who between 1997 and 1999 won the Race-Trucks Class title at three consecutive years on his Mercedes-Benz 1938-S, and for the first time since the Super-Race-Truck Class was abolished prior to the opening of the 2006 season, Jochen Hahn is the first truck racer to win the title hat-trick on his Castrol Team Hahn Racing MAN race truck.\n\nIn 1988, 1989 and 1990, Curt Göransson was the first one to achieve such a success by winning three Class B titles in a row on his Volvo N12 race truck.\n\nRace drivers without fixed number, whose number is defined race by race:\n\nEach round or racing event consisted of four races. At the races 1 and 3, the points awarded according to the ranking was on a 20, 15, 12, 10, 8, 6, 4, 3, 2, 1 basis to the top 10 finishers – at the races 2 and 4 with reversed grid, the points awarded were 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 (rank 1 - 10) respectively.\nSource of information:\nand\n\nSource of data:\n\n"}
{"id": "16149080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16149080", "title": "Al-Madina (Israeli newspaper)", "text": "Al-Madina (Israeli newspaper)\n\nAl-Madina () is an Arabic local newspaper, printed weekly in tabloid format, published and distributed for free in Israel.\n\nAl-Madina appears in two editions. One edition is published in Haifa and distributed in the north of Israel in 15,000 copies since 2004. Its editor-in-chief is Firas Khatib. Until 2006, the editor-in-chief was Ala Hlehel, an Arab-Israeli writer and two-time winner of the A. M. Qattan Foundation Literature Awards. The other\nedition is published in Tel Aviv, with 12,000 copies distributed throughout central Israel since 2006. The editor-in-chief is Ghaleb Kiwan, who is also a news reporter for Arabic-language broadcasts on the Israeli cable provider HOT\n\nIn addition to international, national and local news coverage, the paper publishes opinion pieces and articles on health, sports, arts and culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51707566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51707566", "title": "All the Angels", "text": "All the Angels\n\nAll the Angels (full title - \"All the Angels: Handel and the First Messiah\") is a 2015 play with music by the British poet Nick Drake treating the 1742 Dublin premiere of Handel's \"Messiah\" and the actor-singer Susannah Cibber's involvement in it. Other historical figures such as the work's librettist Charles Jennens, the music historian Charles Burney and the soprano Christina Maria Avoglio also appear. It draws its name from \"Let all the angels of God worship Him\", the chorus of Part II, Scene 4 from \"Messiah\", itself quoting and titled after Hebrews 1:6.\n\nIt briefly premiered from 26 June to 6 July 2015 at the Sam Wanamaker Theatre, directed by Jonathan Munby, followed by a longer run at the same venue from 6 December 2016 to 12 February 2017. In both productions Handel was played by David Horovitch, Cibber by Kelly Price and the choric figure of Crazy Crow by Sean Campion, with the music sung by members of Genesis Sixteen, the training programme of the choir The Sixteen.\n"}
{"id": "548483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548483", "title": "Animal hoarding", "text": "Animal hoarding\n\nAnimal hoarding is keeping a higher-than-usual number of animals as domestic pets without ability to properly house or care for them, while at the same time denying this inability. Compulsive hoarding can be characterized as a symptom of mental disorder rather than deliberate cruelty towards animals. Hoarders are deeply attached to their pets and find it extremely difficult to let the pets go. They typically cannot comprehend that they are harming their pets by failing to provide them with proper care. Hoarders tend to believe that they provide the right amount of care for them. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals provides a \"Hoarding Prevention Team\", which works with hoarders to help them attain a manageable and healthy number of pets.\n\nAn animal hoarder keeps an unusually large number of pets for their premises, and fails to care for them properly. A hoarder is distinguished from an animal breeder, who would have numerous animals as the central component of their business; this distinction can be problematic, however, as some hoarders are former breeders who have ceased selling and caring for their animals, while others will claim to be breeders as a psychological defense mechanism, or in hopes of forestalling intervention. Gary Patronek, director of the Center for Animals and Public Policy at Tufts University, defines hoarding as the \"pathological human behavior that involves a compulsive need to obtain and control animals, coupled with a failure to recognize their suffering\". According to another study, the distinguishing feature is that a hoarder \"fails to provide the animals with adequate food, water, sanitation, and veterinary care, and... is in denial about this inability to provide adequate care.\" Along with other compulsive hoarding behaviors, it is linked in the DSM-IV to obsessive compulsive disorder and obsessive compulsive personality disorder. The DSM-5 includes a diagnosis of hoarding disorder.\n\nAlternatively, animal hoarding could be related to addiction, dementia, or even focal delusion.\n\nThe number of animals involved alone is not a determinative factor in identifying hoarding. Instead, the issue is the owner’s inability to provide care for the animals and the owner’s refusal to acknowledge that both the animals and the household are deteriorating. For instance, in one animal hoarding case, 11 cats were seized from a trailer. The deputy police officer testified that the trailer smelled so bad of urine and feces that despite suffering from severe congestion at the time of the investigation, she had a hard time staying in there for more than a few minutes. The deputy further testified that she couldn't step anywhere in the trailer without stepping on fresh, old, or smeared fecal matter, and that even the stove and sink were filled with feline waste. Yet, a Canadian woman, who died leaving 100 properly fed, spayed, neutered, vaccinated, and groomed cats, was not considered an animal hoarder because her animals were properly cared for.\n\nThe Hoarding of Animals Research Consortium (HARC) identifies the following characteristics as common to all hoarders:\n\nCompulsive hoarding can be characterized as a symptom of mental disorder rather than deliberate cruelty towards animals. Hoarders are deeply attached to their pets and find it extremely difficult to let the pets go. They typically cannot comprehend that they are harming their pets by failing to provide them with proper care. Hoarders tend to believe that they provide the right amount of care for their pets. The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals provides a \"Hoarding Prevention Team\", which works with hoarders to help them attain a manageable and healthy number of pets.\n\nIn the United States, animal hoarders can be prosecuted under state animal cruelty laws for failing to provide a certain level of care to their animals. The following provides some examples of the standards currently in effect. In Alaska, the cruelty statute defines a minimum standard of care for animals that includes (1) food and water sufficient to maintain each animal in good health; (2) an environment compatible with protecting and maintaining the good health and safety of the animal; and (3) reasonable medical care at times and to the extent available and necessary to maintain the animal in good health. Likewise, in Colorado, a person commits cruelty to animals if he or she knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence deprives an animal of necessary sustenance, neglects any animal, allows the animal to be housed in a manner that results in chronic or repeated serious physical harm, or fails to provide the animal with proper food, drink, or protection from the weather consistent with the species, breed, and type of animal involved. In Colorado's animal cruelty statute, “neglect” means failure to provide food, water, protection from the elements, or other care generally considered to be normal, usual, and accepted for an animal's health and well-being consistent with the species, breed, and type of animal.\n\nSince failure to provide proper care for animals is an act of omission or neglect rather than an affirmative act, the failure to care for an animal is considered a misdemeanor offense in most states. For instance, in Alaska, if an animal owner fails to provide the aforementioned standards of care, the state has prima facie evidence of a failure to care for an animal. If the prosecutor can prove the owner’s failure to care for an animal was done with criminal negligence and the failure to care for the animal caused its death or severe physical pain or prolonged suffering, then the owner may be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. In Colorado, failure to provide an animal with the proper standard of care is a Class 1 misdemeanor. In Virginia, each owner must provide for each of his companion animals: adequate feed; adequate water; adequate shelter that is properly cleaned; adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of animal depending upon its age, size, species, and weight; adequate exercise; adequate care, treatment, and transportation; and veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering or disease transmission. Violation of these standards is a Class 4 misdemeanor. A second or subsequent violation may result in a higher grade misdemeanor. Likewise, under Virginia's animal cruelty statute, any person who deprives any animal of necessary food, drink, shelter or emergency veterinary treatment is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.\n\nHowever, some states, like California and New Hampshire, may provide felony provisions for depriving an animal of necessary sustenance, drink, and shelter. In Colorado, it is a class 6 felony upon a second or subsequent conviction of animal cruelty. In Maine, a person who is guilty of cruelty to animals may face criminal or civil charges at the discretion of the state’s attorney.\n\nPenalties for failing to provide proper care or medical care to animals under state animal cruelty statutes can include fines, animal forfeiture, the cost of care for the seized animals, and jail time. Since animal hoarding is sometimes associated with mental illness, a situation may arise when an alleged animal neglecter is found incompetent to stand trial due to a mental disability and thus remains the rightful owner of the animals he or she has neglected (i.e. the animals were not forfeited). In the Matter of a Protective Order for Jean Marie Primrose, for example, after a tip from a veterinarian, police confiscated 11 cats from a woman’s feces and urine covered, rat infested trailer in Oregon; the cats were then placed in the care of a rescue organization. The woman was charged with criminal second degree animal neglect. After being diagnosed with a mild case of mental retardation, however, the judge found the woman unable to aid and assist in her own defense. The second degree charge was thereby dismissed. Since the woman was not convicted of a crime, her rights to the 11 cats were not forfeited. Yet, from the time the cats were seized to the time of the dismissal, the rescue organization accrued more than $30,000 in cat care fees. The rescue organization therefore placed a lien on the cats, meaning the woman could not get her cats back until she paid off her debt. After the dismissal, however, the woman never made any attempt to contact the rescue organization about returning her cats. The fate of the cats therefore remained in limbo. The rescue organization could have (1) kept the cats and kept accruing care fees because they, not being rightful owners, could not place the cats into homes or (2) forgiven the debt and returned the cats to the woman. Since the rescue organization felt the woman was incapable of adequately caring for the cats and since the organization did not want to invest more money that would likely remain uncompensated, the organization filed a petition for a limited protective order as a fiduciary for the care and placement of the cats. The probate court ruled against organization, but the appeals court overturned the lower court's order and held that the probate court did indeed have authority to enter a limited protective order under ORS 125.650 as a \"fiduciary necessary to implement a protective order.\" The probate court, then, granted the limited protective order and the organization was allowed to place the cats into new homes. This case was considered a landmark by the Animal Legal Defense Fund.\n\nIn addition to jail time, animal forfeiture, and fines, a state, such as California, may allow courts to order psychological counseling at the court’s discretion or may require the defendant to undergo anger management, such as the case in Colorado. Prosecutors may also be able to request bans on future pet ownership or request limits on the number of animals a convicted hoarder may keep. For instance, in ALDF v.Conyers, over one hundred dogs and nine birds were confiscated from the defendants’ home. About 70 of those dogs had severe oral disease, disintegrating jaws, and scarred corneas. One dog, who was caged in the basement, could barely stand up and kept soiling himself, which lead to his skin being scalded from the urine and feces. An officer also noticed the dog's tongue hanging out of his mouth, but later learned that his tongue was sticking out because his jaw had disintegrated. The Animal Legal Defense Fund moved for a permanent injunction to enjoin defendants from owning animals from the date of the court’s final judgment to 10 years.\n\nAlthough animal hoarders can be prosecuted under state animal cruelty laws, many scholars maintain that basic animal cruelty laws are inefficient in prosecuting hoarders. As Stephan Otto, director of legislative affairs for the Animal Legal Defense Fund explains: “Only a handful of states allow felony charges for the worst kinds of animal neglect . . . They also need stronger laws that take into account when multiple numbers of animals were in involved in a case.” HARC’s research on 56 animal hoarding cases illustrates Otto’s point:\n\nIn sixteen cases, individuals were charged with one count of animal cruelty for their entire group of animals rather than one count of cruelty for each animal involved. In several other cases, hoarders were only charged with one count of failure to license or provide a rabies vaccination when there were dozens of animals involved. \n\nProsecutors and judges, however, discourage multiple charges, believing that they “clog” the system. The difficulty of proving each charge also accounts for this discouragement. In order to bring one charge of cruelty for each animal, prosecutors and animal agencies must provide proof of cruelty to each animal, matching each animal with its count number. Charging the hoarder with only one count reduces the burdens on the system, the prosecutors, and the animal agencies, but undermines the severity of the charges.\n\nCurrently, only two states have animal hoarding specific laws: Illinois and Hawaii.\n\nPassed in 2001, the Illinois Humane Care for Animal Act was amended to include a definition a companion animal hoarder and mandated psychological counseling for animal hoarders who violate Section 3. A person convicted of violating section 3 of the Act (which requires the provision of food and water, adequate shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care, and humane care and treatment) is guilty of a misdemeanor with a second or subsequent violation raising the offense to a Class 4 felony. One commentator, Victoria Hayes, JD, believed that although Illinois’ legal definition of a “companion animal hoarder” is a step in the direction, the definition does not provide any extra tools to a prosecutor. Animal hoarding itself is not prohibited by the statute, she said, the prosecutor must still show a violation of Section 3 of the Humane Care for Animals Act. It is important to note that animal hoarding itself is not prohibited by the Illinois statute.\n\nHawaii, on the other hand, specifically outlaws animal hoarding. In 2008, animal hoarding became a misdemeanor offense. Hawaii’s Penal Code now provides:\n\n(1) item A person commits the offense of animal hoarding if the person intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly;\n\n(2) Animal hoarding is a misdemeanor.\nHawaii's law specifically criminalizes hoarding, while depriving an animal of necessary sustenance can also constitute a separate offense of animal cruelty. The hoarding law differs from ordinances that limit the number of pets a person can have because it only prohibits keeping more than fifteen dogs and cats if the owner fails to provide necessary care for the animals and that failure causes injury to the animals or the owner.\n\nAn important aspect of this law is that prosecutors may be able to charge hoarders with one count of animal hoarding that covers all of the animals. When hoarding is prosecuted under state animal cruelty laws, prosecutors must charge hoarders with multiple counts of animal cruelty¬—one for each animal on the premises. By creating the offense of “hoarding” Hawaii’s law seems to allow prosecutors to charge hoarders with one count of animal hoarding that covers every animal the person has hoarded, easing the prosecution’s burden of providing documentation of each individual animal’s injury. This will also decrease the cumbersome burden multiple charges can place on courts. Prosecutors will also be able to bring separate charges of animal cruelty for individual animals whose injuries are easiest to document.\n\nHawaii’s statute does not mandate psychological counseling for convicted hoarders or restrict future animal ownership, however.\n\nAnti-hoarding legislation has been proposed, but not passed, in several other states.\n\nWhile a state may not have an animal hoarding specific statute, its municipalities may have animal hoarding specific ordinances. For instance, the city of Alto, Georgia’s ordinance specifically prohibits hoarders. The ordinance defines a hoarder as a person or entity that:\n(a) Collects animals and fails to provide them with humane/adequate care;\n(b) Collects dead animals that are not properly disposed of as required by this article; or\n(c) Collects, houses, or harbors animals in filthy, unsanitary conditions that constitute a health hazard to the animals being kept, and/or to the animals or residents of adjacent property.\n\nIf a person is convicted of being a hoarder under this ordinance, that person may not own, possess, or have on his premises in Alto any animal for one year from the date of conviction. The person may also be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 and/or by imprisonment in the common jail of the town not to exceed six months.\nThe Animal Law Coalition has a Model Animal Hoarding Specific Ordinance (available under “Resources” at its website) that can be adapted by various communities.\n\nMore controversially, a municipality may limit the number of pets a person is allowed to keep in his or her home in hopes of preventing animal hoarding. These are called pet limitation ordinances. Gary J. Patronek, in The Problem of Animal Hoarding, Municipal Lawyer 6 (2001), stated that pet limitation ordinances are “wildly unpopular, difficult to enforce, and likely to be opposed by a broad coalition of pet fanciers, breeders, rescue groups, and animal protection organizations.” While a hoarding specific ordinance, like Alto, prohibits keeping numerous animals in conditions that are harmful to the animals’ health, pet limitation ordinances simply prohibit keeping more than a certain number of animals regardless of the level of care provided to the animals. As mentioned previously in this article, the number of animals involved alone is not a determinative factor in identifying hoarding and it is possible for a person to successfully care for a large number of animals. Examples of pet limitation ordinances include: Aurora, Colorado and Banks County, Georgia. In Banks County, Georgia, the number of dogs a person can own differs based on the zone in which the person's property is located.\n\nSome pet limitation ordinances, however, provide exemptions to the pet restrictions. For instance, in Great Falls, Montana, a person who owns or harbors any more than the number of dogs and cats permitted by the ordinance for a period of more than thirty (30) days must obtain a multiple animal permit. Additionally, a breeder can be exempt from the ordinance by obtaining a Multiple Animal Hobby Breeder Permit. These exemptions are, no doubt, provided to lessen the opposition and problems of pet limitation ordinances.\n\nProsecuting animal hoarding cases is “complex, time consuming, and costly; as made evident in the Primrose case, the high cost of caring for animals rescued from hoarders, who often must be cared for at the rescuer’s expense, is a huge disincentive for prosecuting these types of cases. Especially since the animal rescue operation may never be compensated for its expenses. Further, as Dr. Gary Patronek explains, “[p]rosecutors don’t really have the tools they need to fully go after these cases . . . and they often don’t have the support of other agencies that they need.” This lack of communication among various governmental agencies, such as code enforcement, the health department, and animal control, impedes the detection of animal hoarders and thereby the prosecution of hoarders.\nFurther, since animal hoarding cases do not get widespread attention, they do not garner community support, which is also a disincentive for prosecution. Additionally, officials may opt to forgo charges or enter into lenient plea-bargains in exchange for custody of the animals because they fear that the animals will languish in shelters while prosecution is pending. These attempts to “strike a balance between helping both the hoarder and the animals involved” are generally ineffective because of high recidivism rates among hoarders.\nWhen hoarders are prosecuted, there is broad inconsistency in the number and severity of charges brought. These inconsistencies may arise because some prosecutors and judges discourage multiple charges, believing that they “clog” the system. The difficulty of proving each charge also accounts for these inconsistencies. In order to bring one charge of cruelty for each animal, prosecutors and animal agencies must provide proof of cruelty to each animal, matching each animal with its count number. Adversely, charging the hoarder with only one count reduces the burdens on the system, the prosecutors, and the animal agencies, but undermines the severity of the charges. Laws that create a separate offense of animal hoarding may solve this problem by allowing one count of hoarding to be brought in every case that encompasses the hoarding aspect of the charge rather than focusing on each individual count of cruelty.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, an RSPCA spokeswoman said the society was campaigning for legislation to monitor people who take in large numbers of animals.\n\nThe health issues in animal hoarding encompass a variety of concerns related to both individual and public health. Animal hoarding is the cause of many severe health risks that threaten the hoarded animals, individuals living in hoarding residences, and surrounding neighbors.\n\nDue to the harmful effects on the health of the animals involved, animal hoarding is considered a form of animal cruelty. Hoarders often fail to provide basic care for their animals, thus resulting in disease and often death. The primary animal health issues involved are malnourishment and problems related to overcrowding and neglect. Consequences of hoarding are long-lasting and continue to affect the animals even after they have been rescued and provided with better care.\n\nLack of sufficient food and water is a common feature of hoarding situations. The immediate consequence of this is starvation and death. One study found at least one dead animal present in over half of examined cases, the leading cause of death being an insufficient food and water supply. Malnourishment also leads to increased susceptibility to disease, and the hoarded animals are often in advanced stages of sickness. Furthermore, when there is a limited food supply, animals may resort to aggressive behavior in competing for available food, killing and sometimes even eating other animals.\n\nOvercrowding also leads to acute animal health problems in hoarding situations. The number of animals found in hoarding cases range from dozens to several hundreds, with extreme cases involving over a thousand animals. Animals are confined to houses, apartments, or trailer-homes. In one case, 306 cats were removed from a home, 87 of which were dead. Corpses were found embedded in the chimney and living room furniture. In addition to lack of living space, overcrowding facilitates the spread of diseases among animals. Furthermore, in cases where more than one species is confined to the same living space, animals can pose a danger to one other due to inter-species aggression.\n\nVarious other health problems arise from hoarders' neglect of and inability to provide basic care for the animals. Lack of veterinary attention is notable among these. Hoarders, refusing to acknowledge the deteriorating health conditions of their animals and scared they will be forced to give up custody, often refuse to take their animals to veterinarians. As a result, diseases are left untreated and allowed to become more severe. Another problem tied to neglect is poor sanitary conditions for the animals. Basic animal waste management is absent in virtually all animal-hoarding situations, and animals are filthy and often infected with parasites as a result. Furthermore, animals suffer behaviorally from a lack of socialization caused by an absence of normal interaction with other animals.\n\nMany of these health problems continue to cause suffering even after the animals are rescued. Strained animal shelters or humane societies, forced to prioritize when dealing with numerous rescued animals, may be unable to provide immediate treatment to many animals. Furthermore, many of the rescued animals, due to health or behavioral problems, may not be suitable for adoption. Euthanasia, even in cases where the animals are not beyond rehabilitation, is often the only option for rescued animals. The effects of hoarding on the health and socialization of the animals involved are severe and lasting, taking heavy tolls on both their physical and psychological well-being.\n\nAnimal hoarding also causes many health problems for the people involved. Hoarders, by definition, fail to correct the deteriorating sanitary conditions of their living spaces, and this gives rise to several health risks for those living in and around hoarding residences. Animal hoarding is at the root of a string of human health problems including poor sanitation, fire hazards, zoonotic diseases, envenomation, and neglect of oneself and dependents.\n\nPoor sanitation practices, a general characteristic of hoarding households, pose health risks to both animals and humans. In typical hoarding residences, animal waste is found coating interior surfaces, including beds, countertops, and cupboards. In one case, floors and other surfaces were found to be covered in a six-inch layer of feces and garbage.\n\nIn addition to severe odors which may pose a nuisance to neighbors, animal waste poses serious health risks through both the spread of parasites and the presence of noxious ammonia levels. OSHA, the United States agency regulating air quality standards in work-related environments, has identified an ammonia level of 300 parts per million as life-threatening for humans; in many hoarding cases the atmospheric ammonia level in the housing space approaches this number, requiring the use of protective clothing and breathing apparati during inspections or interventions. In an extreme case, the ammonia level in the hoarder's house was 152 parts per million even after ventilation.\n\nThe presence of animal waste also prevents sanitary storage and preparation of food, which puts residents at risk of contracting food-related illnesses and parasites. Insect and rodent infestation can both follow and worsen hoarding conditions, and can potentially spread to the surrounding environment including to nearby buildings. In one case, an elementary school had to be shut down due to a flea infestation that had spread from a nearby dog hoarder residence.\n\nHoarders are frequently found to collect large numbers of inanimate objects in addition to animals, giving rise to clutter as well. Hoarded objects can include newspapers, trash, clothing, and food; the clutter inhibits normal movement around the house, hampering household maintenance and sanitary food preparation, heightening the risk of accidents, and contributing to the overall level of squalor. A lack of functioning toilets, sinks, electricity, or proper heating (often due to hoarders not paying bills, though poor maintenance may also be a cause) further exacerbates the problem. Fire hazards comprise yet another health issue tied to poor sanitation; the clutter found in many hoarding households prevents workable fire escape plans and serves as possible fuel when located close to heat sources. The risk is amplified when hoarders, due to inoperative heating systems, seek alternate heating methods such as fireplaces, stoves, or kerosene heaters.\n\nAnother human health issue caused by animal hoarding is the risk of zoonotic diseases. Defined as \"human diseases acquired from or transmitted to any other vertebrate animal\", zoonotic diseases can often be lethal and in all cases constitute a serious public health concern. Examples of well-known zoonotic diseases include bubonic plague, influenza, and rabies. Common domesticated animals constitute a large portion of animals carrying zoonoses, and as a result, humans involved in animal hoarding situations are at particular risk of contracting disease. Zoonoses that may arise in hoarding situations—through vectors such as dog, cat, or rat bites—include rabies, salmonellosis, catscratch fever, hookworm, and ringworm. One zoonosis of special concern is toxoplasmosis, which can be transmitted to humans through cat feces or badly-prepared meat, and is known to cause severe birth defects or stillbirth in the case of infected pregnant women. The risk of zoonotic diseases is amplified by the possibility of community epidemics.\n\nThe problems of self-neglect and elder and child abuse are also health problems associated with animal hoarding. Self-neglect can be defined as \"the inability to provide for oneself the goods or services to meet basic needs\", and has been shown to be an \"independent risk factor for death\". While self-neglect is a condition generally associated with the elderly, animal hoarders of any age can and do suffer from it. This is demonstrated by the fact that hoarders' lifestyles often match the degenerate sanitary conditions that surround them. Child and elder abuse arise when dependents are living with the hoarder. According to one study, dependents lived with hoarders in over half of the cases. As with his or her animals, the hoarder often fails to provide adequate care for dependents both young and old, who suffer from a lack of basic necessities as well as the health problems caused by unsanitary conditions. In one case, two children of a couple hoarding 58 cats and other animals were forced to repeat kindergarten and first grade because of excessive absence due to respiratory infections. Self-neglect and neglect of dependents make up a major human health concern of animal hoarding.\n\nEvidence suggests that there is \"a strong mental health component\" in animal hoarding, though it has not been firmly linked to any specific psychological disorder. Models that have been projected to explain animal hoarding include delusional disorder, attachment disorder, obsessive–compulsive disorder, zoophilia, dementia, and addiction. Direct evidence for most is lacking, however.\n\nAnimal hoarders display symptoms of delusional disorder in that they have a \"belief system out of touch with reality\". Virtually all hoarders lack insight into the extent of deterioration in their habitations and on the health of their animals, refusing to acknowledge that anything is wrong. Furthermore, hoarders may believe they have \"a special ability to communicate and/or empathize with animals\", rejecting any offers of assistance. Delusional disorder is an effective model in that it offers an explanation of hoarders' apparent blindness to the realities of their situations.\n\nAnother model that has been suggested to explain animal hoarding is attachment disorder, which is primarily caused by poor parent-child relationships during childhood. It is characterized by an inability to form \"close relationships [with other humans] in adulthood\". As a result, those suffering from attachment disorder may turn to animals for companionship. Interviews with animal hoarders have revealed that hoarders have often experienced domestic trauma in childhood, which is the basis of the evidence for this model.\n\nPerhaps the strongest psychological model put forward to explain animal hoarding is obsessive–compulsive disorder (OCD). An overwhelming sense of responsibility for something is characteristic of people with OCD, who then take unrealistic measures to fulfill their perceived duty. Animal hoarders often feel a strong sense of responsibility to take care of and protect animals, and their solution—that of acquiring as many animals as they possibly can—is unrealistic. Further, the hoarding of inanimate objects, practiced by a majority of animal hoarders, is a fairly common occurrence in people with OCD. These connections between animal hoarding and obsessive–compulsive disorder suggest that OCD may be a useful model in explaining animal hoarding behavior. However, this theory has also been refuted by some; Dr. Akimitsu Yokoyama theorizes that animal hoarding could be explained using Asperger syndrome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52582597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52582597", "title": "Arab Cartoon Award", "text": "Arab Cartoon Award\n\nThe Arab Cartoon Award is a Qatari Award conferred to those who made artistic excellence in drawing Cartoon (Caricature) in the Arab World.\n\nEstablished in 2012, it is sponsored by Ministry of Culture Arts and Heritage of Qatar, Ooredoo communications company, and Dar Al-Sharq for Media publication.\n\n"}
{"id": "8351476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8351476", "title": "Breach (film)", "text": "Breach (film)\n\nBreach is a 2007 American spy thriller film directed by Billy Ray. The screenplay, written by Ray, Adam Mazer and William Rotko, is based on the true story of Robert Hanssen, an FBI agent convicted of spying for the Soviet Union and later Russia for more than two decades, and Eric O'Neill, who worked as his assistant and helped bring about his downfall. O'Neill served as a consultant on the film. The film received generally positive reviews.\n\nEric O'Neill (Ryan Phillippe) is a young FBI employee assigned to work undercover as a clerk to Robert Hanssen (Chris Cooper), a senior agent he is told is suspected of being a sexual deviant. Hanssen has been recalled from a detail post at the State Department to FBI headquarters ostensibly to head up a new division specializing in Information Assurance.\nInitially, Hanssen insists on a strict formality between the two men. He frequently rails against the bureaucracy of the FBI and complains that only those who regularly \"shoot guns\" are considered for senior positions instead of those, like himself, who are involved in vital national security matters. He calls the bureau's information technology systems antiquated and laments the lack of coordination and information exchange with other intelligence agencies.\n\nEventually, Hanssen becomes a friend and mentor to O'Neill and takes a personal interest in him and his wife Juliana (Caroline Dhavernas), who is suspicious of Hanssen and resents his intrusions. A devout Catholic who is also a member of Opus Dei, Hanssen urges O'Neill, a lapsed Catholic, and his secular East German-born wife to become active churchgoers.\n\nO'Neill finds no evidence of Hanssen leading a secret double life and develops a growing respect for his boss, so he confronts his handler in the undercover assignment, Kate Burroughs (Laura Linney), and she admits that the sexual deviance allegations are only a secondary consideration. Hanssen is suspected of spying for the Soviet Union and Russia for years and being responsible for the deaths of agents working for the United States. The entire Information Assurance Division that Hanssen now heads was created specifically to lure him away from his previous job as liaison to the State Department, and his office was specially constructed with hidden surveillance equipment. The investigation already includes fifty agents, and is personally overseen by FBI Director Louis Freeh, who has been reading O'Neill's reports on Hanssen.\n\nAlthough the FBI already has enough evidence to arrest Hanssen, director Freeh wants to catch Hanssen in the act of making a drop so that their case against him will be airtight, ensuring that he will cooperate once arrested and not retaliate by exposing more undercover agents and informants. O'Neill is ordered to obtain data from Hanssen's Palm Pilot and keep him occupied while FBI agents search his car and plant covert listening devices in it.\n\nThe tracking devices in Hanssen's car cause interference with the radio, which makes Hanssen suspicious. He also wonders why he was placed in an isolated position in the FBI only a few months before he is scheduled to retire. He tells O'Neill he believes he is being watched by Russian agents. The FBI intercepts a message he sends to his Russian handlers saying he will not provide any more information. O'Neill persuades Hanssen that he is not being trailed by the Russians or by him on behalf of the FBI. With his confidence restored, Hanssen makes one last dead drop of stolen information and the FBI catches him in the act.\n\nAlthough he is assured promotion, O'Neill is discouraged with the toll the case has taken on his marriage and opts to leave the agency. When O'Neill leaves his office with his belongings, he unexpectedly encounters Hanssen in an elevator being escorted by arresting officers. A tearful Hanssen asks O'Neill to pray on his behalf, and O'Neill promises he will.\n\nThe review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported 84% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 167 reviews. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 74 out of 100, based on 36 reviews.\n\nManohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" said, \"One of the strengths of \"Breach\", a thriller that manages to excite and unnerve despite our knowing the ending, is how well it captures the utter banality of this man and his world.\"\n\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" rated the film 3½ out of four stars, calling it a \"steadily gripping hothouse of a thriller.\" He added, \"Director and co-writer Billy Ray, who detailed the misconduct of journalist Stephen Glass at \"The New Republic\" in 2003's \"Shattered Glass\" ... proves himself a filmmaker of uncommon talent and ambition.\"\n\nRuthe Stein of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" commented, \"\"Breach\" suffers from lavishing so much attention on a relatively minor figure ... O'Neill, at least the way he's presented, isn't a particularly compelling character, and he is made less so by Phillippe's lackluster performance ... [The film] expends too much energy on a minor functionary, but it is still worth seeing for its fleeting looks into a heart of darkness.\"\n\nPeter Rainer of \"The Christian Science Monitor\" named \"Breach\" the best film of the year. Richard Schickel of \"Time\" ranked it #6 and called Chris Cooper's performance \"brilliant\". Stephen Hunter of \"The Washington Post\" named it the ninth best film of 2007.\n\nThe film opened on 1,489 theaters screens in the US and earned $10,504,990 on its opening weekend, ranking #6 among all films in release. It eventually grossed $33,231,264 domestically and $7,722,671 in foreign markets for a total worldwide box office of $40,953,935.\nThe filmmakers fictionalized much of Eric O'Neill's story, as mentioned in the end credits. Among the major changes made for the film:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1395441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395441", "title": "Charles Cruft (showman)", "text": "Charles Cruft (showman)\n\nCharles Alfred Cruft (28 June 1852 – 10 September 1938) was a British showman who founded the Crufts dog show. Charles first became involved with dogs when he began to work at Spratt's, a manufacturer of dog biscuits. He rose to the position of general manager, and whilst working for Spratt's in France he was invited to run his first dog show at the 1878 Exposition Universelle. After running dog shows in London for four years, he ran his first Cruft's dog show in 1891, and continued to run a further 45 shows until his death in 1938, as well as running two cat shows in 1894 and 1895. He was involved in a range of dog breed clubs, including that for Schipperkes, Pugs and Borzois. He and his wife upheld a story that they never owned a dog, and instead owned a cat, however Cruft admitted to owning at least one Saint Bernard in his memoirs, published posthumously.\n\nCharles Cruft was born on 28 June 1852, one of four children. In his youth, Charles attended Ardingly College in Sussex, and Birkbeck College in London. Cruft first followed in his father's footsteps by becoming a manufacturing jeweller but he ultimately decided that the career was not for him and left the business in 1865.\n\nHe went on to apply for the post of office boy in the Holborn shop of James Spratt, the manufacturer of Spratt's dog biscuits. He was recruited by Spratt, who would later go on to say that Cruft had lent forward in the interview at one point whilst talking about the business and said \"You know, I think this kind of business ought to do very well, I do honestly.\" Cruft overhauled the bookkeeping in the shop, changing it from a system using crosses to distinguish between wholesale and retail customers to a far more detailed system. The Maltese cross that was previously used in the bookkeeping was later instead stamped onto the biscuits as a type of trademark to distinguish Spratt's biscuits from other dog biscuits.\n\nSeveral months after joining, Crufts convinced Spratt to hire a new boy to work in the shop to free himself up to solicit orders for the dog biscuits from gamekeepers, promoters of dog shows and the like. He saw a connection between improved feeding and purebred dogs, and so supported the foundation of canine societies. As part of this new role, he was expected to have attended the \"Grand National Exhibitions of Sporting and other Dogs\" at The Crystal Palace, London, annually between 1870 and 1872. These early shows were unsuccessful financially and were not continued. Whilst at Spratt's, Cruft gradually rose to the role of general manager, after being head of their Show Department for several years. At the age of 26, some twelve years after leaving the jewellery business, Cruft was made office manager. The Spratt's dog biscuits became the forerunner of the modern dry dog food, and under Cruft's work the company went from a single small shop to the British leader in these types of products.\n\nIn 1878, whilst still working for Spratt's, Cruft travelled across Europe to expand the biscuit business. Whilst in France, he was invited to run the dog show at the third World's Fair whilst he was there promoting Spratt's dog cake, known as the Exposition Universelle. Further offers to run shows came in for Cruft, including an offer to become Secretary of the Dutch Kennel Club, and an offer to run the livestock section of the Brussels and Antwerp International Exhibitions. He took up job offers to run the shows for the Scottish Kennel Club, and became manager of the poultry section of the shows of the Royal Agricultural Society. He also co-founded and became club secretary of the Schipperke Club of Brussels.\n\nBy the time Cruft turned 30 in 1882, Spratts had been sold to Edward Wylan who in turn promoted Charles first to \"Chief Traveller\", and then to general manager. Under Crufts guidance, the company diversified its product base and expanded into game bird and poultry food markets, as well as producing a range of accessories for cats and dogs. Cruft himself became secretary of the Toy Spaniel Club and the Pug Dog Club. He was also involved in clubs which promoted the Saint Bernard and Borzoi breeds.\n\nIn 1886, Cruft was approached to run a dog show for terriers in London by the Duchess of Newcastle, and so on 10 March his show opened at the Royal Aquarium in Westminster, London. Entitled \"The first Great Show of all kinds of Terriers\", the show received 570 entries across 57 classes and included Lord Alfred Paget among the patrons. Collies and several breeds of toy dogs were added by 1890.\nThis gradual expansion of breeds led to the creation of the first show to be named after Cruft was in 1891, when \"Cruft's Greatest Dog Show\" was held at the Royal Agricultural Hall, Islington, with part of the deal to hold the show at that location was to restrict the venue to only allowing Cruft to run dog shows at the location. He designed the logo himself, the head of a Saint Bernard surrounded by a collar with a crown on top. He introduced a system where competitors would pay to enter their dogs, and make additional payments if they wished to take the dogs away each night of the three-day competition, and again pay if they wanted to take them away early on the final day. By 1914, the show had grown in popularity until it was recognised as the largest dog show in the world and by 1936 when the show celebrated its Golden Jubilee, over 10,000 dogs were entered at the event. Cruft's shows were frequented by Royalty, with Queen Victoria exhibiting dogs, and King Edward VII also doing so prior to becoming King. In 1893, Tsar Alexander III of Russia sent eighteen Borzois to compete, and from 1916 King George V entered his Labrador Retrievers regularly.\n\nOn 7 and 8 March 1894, he experimented with expanding his shows and held his first Cat conformation show. The first show had over 600 entries, becoming easily the biggest of its kind so far, with patrons that included the Duchess of Newcastle, the Countess de Sefton and Lady de Trafford. The publication \"Fur and Feather\" praised the new venture and encouraged more. Crufts however wasn't so sure as the initial show had lost over a hundred pounds, and entries in some of the classes were restricted to only a handful of cats. He held a second show in March 1895, which once again \"Fur and Feather\" heaped praise upon, despite the cutbacks that Cruft had initiated to make the show more profitable. \"Fur and Feather\" announced in March 1896 that the cat show had been postponed due to Cruft's other business commitments, but he never went on to run such a show again.\n\nIn 1896, Cruft designed special train carriages to carry competition dogs for his shows from around the country. Cruft was Secretary of the Ranelagh Fox Terrier Show in 1901, and together with several colleagues including Sir Humphrey de Trafford created the National Terrier Club, and from the second show onwards on 21 June 1902, the show became known as the National Terrier Show. Cruft continued as Secretary of the club until 1914 when Sir William Savory took on the role.\n\nDespite the fact that he gave away very few details about himself to the press, to make them concentrate more on promotion of his shows, he did not always see eye to eye with all members of the media. One newspaper refused to publish his name at all, and whenever it made reference to Cruft's dog shows, it simply referred to them as \"a dog show in Islington\".\n\nAfter running his 45th Crufts show in 1938, he fell ill. By the late summer he was recovering, but he died due to a heart attack at around 5:30am on 10 September. Tributes came in from media agencies, with \"Our Dogs\" calling him \"the man who made dog shows\", and comparisons with the American showman P. T. Barnum.\n\nThe funeral occurred on 21 September. Cruft was buried in a tomb in the western area of Highgate Cemetery, London. It would become Grade II listed on 14 May 1974. The London Borough of Islington placed a plaque commemorating Charles Cruft at Ashurst Lodge, Highbury Grove, N5.\n\nHis will left £30476 9s 3d to his family and friends, with the majority going to his second wife, Emma, and £2000 going to his daughter Clara. Two grandchildren, Charles and Betty Cruft each received £500, and two nephews, Kenneth and John Hartshorn, each received the same. Eight nieces, one great nephew and a young cousin each received £50. One of his maids, Kate Hempstead, who had worked for him for over thirty years also received £50. His cousin Lt Arthur Cruft received £100, while Cruft's secretary Miss E. Harrington, who had worked on the Crufts dog shows since 1925 received £500.\n\nAt the time of his death in 1938, it was thought that his wife, Emma Cruft, would continue to run the dog shows with the help of the show's secretary, Miss Hardingham. After running the show in 1939, Mrs Cruft sold the show to The Kennel Club, however due to World War II, it wasn't until 1948 when they ran the show for the first time. The show would remain being called Cruft's until 1974, when during a rebrand the apostrophe was dropped, resulting in the show being called Crufts, which it continues to be called at the present.\n\nCruft's first marriage was to Charlotte Hutchinson in 1878. Together they had four children, Charles Francis, Louise, Cecil Arthur and Clara Helen Grace. His second marriage was to Emma Isabel Hartshorn in 1894, they had no children. He remained in close contact with his children, and involved each of them in the dog show business. Such was the relationship with his daughter Clara, who was nicknamed \"Birdie\", that she alone was listed in his second wife's will as a step daughter.\n\nHis wife Emma stated in her book, \"Mrs Charles Cruft's Famous Dog Book\", published in 1949 that there was an unwritten rule that both herself and her husband couldn't own any dogs for fear of making others believe that they favoured one breed over another, even going as far to say \"we were determined to own a pet, so we took the least like of resistance and kept a – CAT!\" This was disproved in Cruft's memoirs, published posthumously in \"Charles Cruft's Dog Book\" in 1952, where Cruft explained that he had lived in households which had Alsatians and Borzois. He went on to make particular reference to the fact that he and his wife Emma had owned at least one Saint Bernard; the same breed of dog he had used in his creation of the Crufts logo.\n\nAt the time of the United Kingdom Census 1901, Cruft was living at 325 Holloway Road, N7 with his wife Emma, his father Charles, a boarder named Albert Causfield and a servant named Alice Gregory. He listed his profession as \"show promoter\". Emma would go on to outlive Charles, she died at the age of 82 on 5 September 1950. At the time of his death, he was living at 12 Highbury Grove, London, N5. His staff included a cook, a chauffeur, two maids and a gardener. Additionally, he owned a country home called Windmill Farm, in Coulsdon, Surrey.\n\n"}
{"id": "436589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=436589", "title": "Christophe Rocancourt", "text": "Christophe Rocancourt\n\nChristophe Thierry Daniel Rocancourt, sometimes also called Christopher Rocancourt (born 16 July 1967), is a French impostor and confidence man who scammed affluent people by masquerading in turn as a French nobleman, the heir to the Rockefeller family or family member of a celebrity.\n\nRocancourt told \"Dateline NBC\" in a 2006 broadcast that his mother sometimes worked as a prostitute and his father was an alcoholic who took Christophe to an orphanage when the boy was 5. His first big con was made in Paris, where he faked the deed to a property that he did not own, which he then \"sold\" for USD $1.4 million.\n\nMaking his way to the United States, Rocancourt used at least a dozen aliases, and got the rich and powerful to invest in his schemes, he told \"Dateline\", by tapping into their greed. He convinced them that he, too, was rich by paying for their lavish dinners in cash. He once estimated to \"Dateline\" that his various schemes/ventures netted him at least US$40 million, but this cannot be confirmed.\n\nIn Los Angeles, he pretended to be a movie producer, ex-boxing champion or venture capitalist, also claiming to be the illegitimate son of Sophia Loren, the nephew of Oscar de la Renta and Dino De Laurentiis, and he associated himself with various celebrities: he lived for a time with Mickey Rourke, and apparently convinced actor Jean-Claude Van Damme to produce his next movie. He was also in talks with Jermaine Jackson to develop a line of fragrances inspired by Michael Jackson songs.\n\nRocancourt, using the name Christopher De Laurentiis, married Gry Park in 1992 with whom he had a child. He married \"Playboy\" model Pia Reyes in May 1996, and they had a son, Zeus. Beside being married to Pia Reyes, according to the press, he lived with \"Playboy\" model Rhonda Rydell for six months. She did not know Rocancourt was married, and said he had told her he was French nobility, the son of a countess.\n\nIn 1997 police raided Rocancourt's hotel suite, and in 1998 he was arrested for an involvement in a shootout before he jumped bail. In 1999 he was freed of charges of forging passports after he had bribed State Department employees to get a passport. He was arrested in 2000 in the Hamptons for an unpaid hotel bill, then jumped bail and relocated to Canada where he assumed the identity of Grand Prix driver Michael van Hoven. On April 27, 2001 he and Reyes were detained in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, and Rocancourt was later charged with defrauding an elderly couple; Reyes was released after convincing authorities that she had no part in the scam, much less any idea of her husband's criminal activities. Rocancourt served a year in prison before being extradited to New York and pleading guilty to charges of theft, grand larceny, smuggling, bribery, perjury and fraud against 19 victims. In September 2003, the plea resulted in a fine of $9 million, an order to pay $1.2 million in restitution and a term of three years and ten months in federal prison.\n\nWhile being held in Canada, Rocancourt wrote an autobiography in which he ridiculed his victims. In Switzerland, police have connected him with a jewel theft, and barred him from the country for 14 years; this expired 2016.\n\nRocancourt returned to Paris in October 2005 after completing his prison sentence. He lived with former Miss France Sonia Rolland, and they had a daughter together, named Tess. They announced their split in early 2008.\n\nIn July 2009, French filmmaker Catherine Breillat accused Rocancourt of scamming her out of 700,000 €. Breillat, who was diagnosed with a cerebrovascular disease in 2004, accused him of taking advantage of her due to her mental incapacity. Due to this event, the film \"Bad Love\", with Rocancourt and model Naomi Campbell, was cancelled. Breillat told a French journalist that her first meeting with Rocancourt was the worst day of her life, even worse than the day when she was diagnosed with her cerebrovascular disease. In 2012, Rocancourt was convicted of \"abus de faiblesse\" (\"abuse of weakness\") for taking Breillat's money, and sentenced to prison.\n\nThe American Court TV (now TruTV) television series \"Mugshots\" released an episode on the Christophe Rocancourt titled \"Chris Rocancourt - A French Con\", aired in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "32702615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32702615", "title": "Circuit Showdown", "text": "Circuit Showdown\n\nCircuit Showdown is a Philippine auto racing series that began with its first racing season in 2010. It is currently the only circuit racing series in the country that is open to both amateur and professional drivers that features a classic Touring Car series as well as a Time Attack Competition. Each driver and his vehicle is equipped by an AMB timing system to accurately measure their lap times. Drivers are ranked by their qualifying times and bracketed to compete; accumulating points to vie for the championship in each of the six brackets at the end of the season. The series is open individuals and teams from various racing backgrounds welcoming cars from daily driven stock cars to full race cars. Each event is hosted at different race venues in the country. Open to the most amateur of drivers, the organizers provide driving aids from the country's leading race professionals during the event. In addition, the Philippine National Red Cross provides medical assistance to every event.\n\n2012 will see some more changes in regulations particularly in the Grid Races tire restrictions were imposed. The complete list of the regulations can be found on their website for both Grid Races and Time Trials.\n\nThis season, will debut the Champions of Champions race where champions of each bracket are invited to race in identical cars for the title of \"Champion of Champions.\" Also, participants that will be running this year's tire sponsor, GT Radial, may compete for the title GT-R Champion and a set of high performance radials.\n\nTypically, the event is scheduled on the first Saturday of each Month. Each leg is a whole day event that varies from track to track. The track opens early providing participants with an open practice and enough time to test the track and tune their cars. The event formally begins with a compulsory drivers' briefing then the Qualifying sessions for both Grid and Time Trials (TT) commence and ends at mid-day. Time sheets and bracketing are posted immediately over lunch so everyone can see their qualifying times that they did in the morning. This is followed by the grid races; Race 1 starts with Grid C; once the track is cleared, Official Time Trials Begin for all six brackets. After the last of the TT cars have run, Race 2 follows, with Grid B then Race 3 with Grid A. There are cases when the schedules are shortened or revised. These changes are announced on their website and Facebook Page typically weeks before the event.\n\nEach participant is grouped into their respective brackets based on their performance on the Qualifying Session. Once participants qualify in a bracket, they can no longer go to a lower bracket and compete in that bracket. They can however \"break-out\" or move to the next higher bracket. Races continue even during rains; in these conditions, bracket times are adjusted and are discussed during the briefing. Below is a sample bracketing for the 6th Leg held at Batangas Racing Circuit with a reverse layout and dry conditions\n\nThe series features time trials for those who want to run their cars against the clock. There are a total of six brackets where a participant can compete. The goal of each participant is to reach the closest time set on the bracket, if time is beat, a maximum of .200sec is allowed but will void the fastest time, in this case the 2nd fastest time will be used. For times of .201sec or better, the participant is moved to the next faster bracket.\n\nGrid race are for those who want to compete \"wheel to wheel\" with other competitors. They are grouped into three categories. Grid A is for those who qualify for brackets A & B, Grid B are for the cars that qualify in brackets C & D, and Grid C are for those who qualify in brackets E & F.\n\nCircuit Showdown uses the following flags to signal cars:\n\nPoints are awarded to the top ten drivers in each bracket and points added to each bracket they qualify in. At the end of the season, each of the six brackets for the time trials will have a winner as well as three brackets for the grid.\n\nThe series runs throughout the year alternating between the major race venues in the Philippines, often changing the layout to add variation. One of its venues is the Clark International Speedway (CIS), the newest touring car race track in the Philippines. Its completion in late 2009, and continuous expansion has made this track the most competitive to date. The Batangas Racing Circuit (BRC) was created in 1996 from a 2.9 km circuit it has grown into a 3.5 km track with a 550m straight also used for drag racing events.\n\nIn 2010, the series ran a few legs on the now defunct Subic International Raceway (SIR), a 2.9 kilometer circuit with 12 turns, that has been the venue for both local & international races. Located beside the Subic International Airport, it is 15 minutes away from Central Business District of Subic Bay Freeport and was completed in 1994. Early in 2011, the track has been closed to make way for a commercial development in Subic. As a send-off, the administration of the Subic Raceway organized the \"Last Lap,\" a three-day event open to everyone.\n\nFor 2012, the Season starts in March 3 with races on every first Saturday of each month. This season, there will only be 8 events scheduled plus the Champion of Champions race.\n\nCircuit Showdown is also participated by teams from all over the country ranging from car clubs to manufacturers. Each team accumulate points through each driver's points. The team with the most points are declared Team Champion at the end of the season. Though there is no published entry list, this 2012 both HKS (company) and Liquimoly are rumored to compete in both Time Trials and Grid Races across different brackets.\n\nThe series is organized by Enzo Pastor and Dalia Pastor. This series is backed by GT Radial, HKS Super Oil, Rota Wheels, Staging Lanes, Pitworkz by Hongly, V-KOOL, Foil a Car, Runstop Rotors, ECW Performance, Dynamics Suspension, Egg Head, PhilGerma, Garage88, ACCS, kotse.com, Autoindustriya.com, Top Gear Phil., Stoplight TV and 99.5 RT.\n\nWith the last of the race concluded on October 1, 2011 at a typhoon soaked Clark International Speedway, the season champions are declared and an awarding ceremony set for October 22, 2011 at Garage88 in Taguig, Global City.\n\nCircuit Showdown's first season ended with a 10th leg at Clark International Speedway.\n\n"}
{"id": "59155583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59155583", "title": "College eSports", "text": "College eSports\n\nCollege eSports began in about 2010 as different schools began forming eSports clubs that play any of the variety of eSports games in college tournaments. Varsity collegiate eSports began in 2014 when Robert Morris University Illinois announced a scholarship-sponsored League of Legends team. Since then, the scene has ballooned to include around 50 programs, with a national governing body known as the National Association of Collegiate Esports as the main home for most of those organizations.\n\nTespa is a leading collegiate eSports organization that was founded on September 2, 2013. Tespa being the leader it is, has connections with ESPN, Twitch and other platforms for broadcasting its tournaments. It has over 270 chapters across North America and over 102,000 Tespa Members/ alumni. Tespa has 1200+ schools that have participated in Tespa tournaments with 30,000+ competitors. Over the years, Tespa have offered a total of $3 million in scholarships to student gamers. \n\nNational Association of Collegiate Esports was introduced as a pioneer in the new and exciting Esports era. The non-profit organization has partnered with over 80 schools to create a revenue allowing student athletes to receive approximately 9 million in scholarships. NACE was founded on July 28, 2016 at the first Collegiate eSports Summit held in Kansas City, MO. NACE endorses the Harrisburg University eSports Tournament, which had collegiate teams battle for prize money of $50,000.\n\nIn 2018, there were at least 73 college varsity eSports programs in NACE or other divisions. \n\nCincinnati Christian University eSports scholarship option was announced on September 4, 2018. CCU will begin their intercollegiate competition in 2019-2020. The games which the program covers are \"League of Legends\", \"Overwatch\", \"Fortnite\", \"Rocket League\", \"Super Smash Bros.\", \"Madden\", \"NBA 2K\", and \"FIFA\".\n\nDaemen College announced the start of eSports scholarships in January 29, 2018. They are competing in East Coast Conference. Their eSports program includes League of Legends.\n\nIndiana Tech University announced their eSports scholarship in August, 16, 2016. At first, they launched 35 scholarships and began in Fall 2017. The university's state-of-the-art gaming arena was finished in October 2016. Their eSport program covers League of Legends and Hearthstone.\n\nMaryville is one of the most successful college eSports programs. The program won the most prestigious League of Legends tournament on May 6, 2016. Their eSport program covers League of Legends and Heroes of the Storm.\n\nSouthwest Baptist's eSports program began in Fall 2016. The reason for creating an eSports scholarship program at Southwest Baptist University is the Xbox One Arena, created for intramural competition. The arena allows students to interact with the community while playing video games. SBU competes in the Collegiate eSports Association (CESPA and National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA). Their eSports program covers League of Legends.\n\nStephens College is all women's school. They are competing in National Association of Collegiate eSports (NACE). Their eSports program covers Overwatch.\n\nTo earn a scholarship at NYU, players do not only need to know how to play fighting games but also must want design games. Students who wants to study graphic design at NYU can apply for the EVO fighting tournament. The scholarship is based on the funds raised during the EVO tournament.\n\nUCI is the first public university to create an eSports program. Currently, they are recognized as one of the best in the world. The idea to start eSport program at UCI came during the summer of 2015. In Spring 2016, the first scholarships where awarded. On September 23, 2016 they opened an eSports arena.\n\nThe eSports program at University of Utah was created in 2017. Utah made a tryout in which over 200 players competed, 33 of them make a cut. Currently they consider themselves as one of the top eSports programs in the country. Their eSports program covers Overwatch, League of Legends, Rocket League and Hearthstone.\n\nUniversity of Harrisburg announced during a press conference held on July 26th, 2018 their roster with 16 players. 500 players tried out for these 16 spots. The program officially began in 2018. They are competing in National Association of Collegiate Esports.Their eSports program covers Overwatch and League of Legends.\n\nRobert Morris University first had an eSports program in Fall 2013. In 2014, they decided to give full scholarships to their eSports players. Their program covers League of Legends.\n\nIn a 2016 interview with Steph Harvey conducted by the British Broadcasting Corporation, she explains the controversy of women in eSports. She describes during the interview that video games are thought to be only played by men. She delivers accounts of her experiences while participating in and receiving degrading comments due to her gender. This in turn is the reason she feels more women do not participate in ESports. The constant stigma placed upon them and backlash from the male competitors makes women feel outcast for something designed for anyone to participate. \n\nIn a article posted by The ESports Observer, they talk about the controversy of different players interacting with one another during matches. One of the biggest complaints seen is racist comments being exchanged during matches. This not only caused conflicts between the players but cause issues for the game publisher. One way this is being curbed though is punishing the player after they receive a number of complaints about their comments during gameplay.\n"}
{"id": "7241350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7241350", "title": "Dasara elephants", "text": "Dasara elephants\n\nElephants are an integral part of the Mysore Dasara Festival. The elephants form the core of the Mysore Dasara procession on the Vijayadashami day. The lead elephant carries the Golden Howdah (Chinnada Ambari) with the Goddess Chamundeshwari in it.\n\nThe Elephants start arriving to Mysore city in groups. They arrive to Mysore a month or so before the start of the actual festivities and they undergo practice for their march on the final day. The elephants are accompanied by their respective keepers or Mahouts. The elephants are usually brought in trucks and are occasionally walked the 70-km distance from their home base in the Nagarahole National Park to Mysore. Villagers greet the sacred animals all along their designated trekking route. As each party of pachyderms arrives at the Veerana Hosahalli forest checkpost in Hunsur taluk, from the forest, they are received by the District Minister, a host of officials and prominent persons from Mysore and people from nearby villages. The villagers perform folk dances, and beat drums and sing songs to welcome the elephants. This in keeping with the royal tradition of the Mysore Maharajas.\n\nWhile in their respective camps the elephants are served 'Ragi mudde', a mixture of ragi and horse gram and fodder branches. But when they are royal guests in the royal city of Mysore preparing for Dasara, they are served with ‘royal’ food till the grand Dasara finale - Jamboo Savari. The elephants get to eat uddina bele (black gram), green gram, wheat, boiled rice, onion and vegetables in the mornings and evenings. They get rice, groundnut, coconut, jaggery and sugarcane with some salt to add taste to the diet after they return from their regular rehearsals. This food is served twice a day. They also get branch fodder like banyan leaves. Extra care is taken while serving food to the jumbos. High-calorie and protein-rich food is served to the elephants to improve their physical fitness. They carry a lot of weight at the procession and for that, they need strength. Hence they are fed with rich food. The food served in the morning is laced with pure butter for flavour. Besides nutritious food, vitamin doses are also injected so as to balance the diet. An elephant eats 400 kilograms of fodder in a day in the forests. The food served to them in Mysore contains high calories and is more than what they eat in the jungles.\n\nThe Dasara Elephants are usually caught by the elephant trainers via the Khedda operation. During the Wodeyar rule, the elephants thus caught were inspected in an open field for strength, personality, and character. The walking styles, weaknesses to seduction, the facial charisma were some of the factors considered for selection. Then the chosen elephants were trained for the festival. It is said that the king himself would oversee the training. Sometimes abandoned young elephants are also trained for dasara.\n\nThe abode of the elephants during the rest of the year is usually their training camps and the surrounding National Parks. There are around 70 tamed elephants in exclusive camps at Dubare, Hebballa, Moorkal, Kallalla, Nagarahole, Veeranahosahalli, Metikuppe, Sunkadakatte, Bandipur, Moolehole, K. Gudi and Bheemeshwari. About 240 mahouts and kavadis take care of the needs of these elephants and develop a bond with them.\n\nThe elephants are named in Kannada and usually have the names of Hindu mythological and historical figures. Elephants Drona and Balarama carried the idol of deity Chamundeshwari housed in the Golden Howdah for a combined total of 30 years. Balarama took up the responsibility after Drona was electrocuted in 1998 at Nagarahole National Park. Balarama has been granted retirement after 13 years. The 52-year-old Arjuna replaced Balarama and carried the Golden Howdah during the Dasara 2012 Jamboo Sawari procession at Mysore on 24 October 2012. The other elephants participating in the event are Bharatha, Kanthi, Gayathri, Kokila, Sri Rama, Abhimanyu, Gajendra, Biligiriranga, Vikram, Varalakshmi, and Sarojini.\n\n"}
{"id": "31695409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31695409", "title": "Destruction of the Country House exhibition", "text": "Destruction of the Country House exhibition\n\nThe Destruction of the Country House 1875-1975 was an exhibition held at the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A) in 1974, commissioned by V&A Director Roy Strong and curated by John Harris, Marcus Binney and Peter Thornton (then working, respectively, at the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), \"Country Life\" magazine and the V&A Department of Furniture and Woodwork).\n\nThe exhibition included a \"Hall of Destruction\", decorated with falling columns and illustrations of some of the thousand country houses demolished since 1875, brought down by falling estate incomes, rising costs, death duties, and damage caused by government requisitioning during the Second World War.\n\nDescribed as a \"landmark\" exhibition, the graphic illustration of the scale of destruction of Britain's built heritage changed public opinion, and encouraged moves to protect the country houses that remained. \n\nThe success of the exhibition inspired the formation of the campaigning group, SAVE Britain's Heritage, in 1975 - a year that was designated as European Architectural Heritage Year by the Council of Europe - but the changed public mood could not prevent the sale of the extraordinary collection of art and furniture at Mentmore Towers in 1975, and of the empty building itself in 1977, to pay taxes following the death of Harry Primrose, 6th Earl of Rosebery in 1973.\n\nThe exhibition was followed in 1977 and 1979 by two further exhibitions at the V&A on British architectural heritage: \"Change and Decay: The Future of our Churches\" (curated by Strong, Binney and Peter Burman), and then \"The Garden: A Celebration of a Thousand Years of British Gardening\" (organised by Harris).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1299771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299771", "title": "Failure to appear", "text": "Failure to appear\n\nFailure to appear is the legal term for the failure of a defendant or respondent to appear at (or within) the stated time before a tribunal as directed in a summons. Where the conduct alleged in the summons or complaint is an infraction or summary offence, failure to appear is a crime for which a bench-warrant can be issued if the defendant promised to appear. If the conduct alleged is a tort or other cause for civil action, failure to appear generally results in a default judgment by the court in favor of the plaintiff/petitioner.\n\nFailure to appear in U.S. federal law is an offense punishable by a prison term, depending on the seriousness of the offense the person is being sentenced for:\n\n"}
{"id": "50123844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50123844", "title": "Feraliminal Lycanthropizer", "text": "Feraliminal Lycanthropizer\n\nThe Feraliminal Lycanthropizer is a fictional machine invented by American writer David Woodard, whose 1990 pamphlet of the same title speculates on its history and purpose. The brief, anonymously published work describes a vibration referred to as thanato-auric waves, which the machine electrically generates by combining three infrasonic sine waves (3 Hz, 9 Hz and 0.56 Hz) with concomitant tape loops of unspecified spoken text (two beyond the threshold of decipherability, and two beneath the threshold).\n\nThe premise is that a mind-altering technology has for decades, at the behest of American intelligence during the Cold War, been withheld from scrutiny. Dispensing sensitive information in the interest of enhancing civilian life, the author shares his own notes as well as those left by earlier researchers.\nThe name Feraliminal Lycanthropizer is composed of two portmanteau words. The first, Feraliminal, is a combination of the Latin \"ferus\" (wild animal) and \"limen\" (threshold), while the second, Lycanthropizer, combines the Ancient Greek root \"lycanthrope\" (werewolf) with a generic suffix, -\"izer\", conferring agency. Together the words suggest something hidden that triggers wild or aggressive conduct.\n\nDespite the pamphlet's brevity and obscurity, its story has acquired mythic overtones, and readers have since made extraordinary attempts to replicate the Feraliminal Lycanthropizer and/or invoke its described \"animalizing effects on human subjects tested within measurable vibratory proximity.\" The machine's neologistic name has thus appeared in conjunction with disparate music groups and artists, as indicated:\nFeraliminal Lycanthropizer-themed works also include:\n\nApart from its title and the term \"thanato-auric\", other hitherto unknown coinages introduced in Woodard's text are, in order of appearance: \"Plecidic\", \"aurotic\", \"nucleopatriphobic\" and \"Eugenaestheticus\". Moreover, journalistic coverage appears to have roundly debunked the myth of the machine.\n\nAccording to \"Fortean Times\", \"[L]egends about the machine challenge belief; besides being credited with sparking unrestrained orgies, it has...been blamed for the sex-and-strangulation deaths of six youths. Some, who claim to have used the machine, have felt themselves become mentally stronger and their will more focused. [The] essay claims that 'a Catalan national using the machine daily over a period of five or six weeks eventually managed to ingratiate himself to Adolf Hitler [and] persuade his quarry to adopt the swastika as high totem and emblem of the burgeoning National Socialist Conference.' Such stories are, clearly, beyond belief. There is no evidence that the Feraliminal Lycanthropizer exist[ed] or could have such effects.\"\n\nIn \"TechnoMage\", a compendium of writings on technology and the occult, author Dirk Bruere relates, \"The recording '...contains two infrasonic frequencies, 3hz and 9hz, which, combined, generate a lower, third frequency of 0.56hz.' They do not.\" Paranormal researcher Michael Esposito opines, \"I’m not sure the Feraliminal Lycanthropizer is as effective as a woman leaning against the spin cycle of a Maytag.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27301862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27301862", "title": "Flash crash", "text": "Flash crash\n\nA flash crash is a very rapid, deep, and volatile fall in security prices occurring within an extremely short time period. A flash crash frequently stems from trades executed by black-box trading, combined with high-frequency trading, whose speed and interconnectedness can result in the loss and recovery of billions of dollars in a matter of minutes and seconds.\n\nFour notable flash crashes have occurred :\n\nThis type of event occurred on May 6, 2010. A $4.1 billion trade on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) resulted in a loss to the Dow Jones Industrial Average of over 1,000 points and then a rise to approximately previous value, all over about fifteen minutes. The mechanism causing the event has been heavily researched and is in dispute. On April 21, 2015, the U.S. Department of Justice laid \"22 criminal counts, including fraud and market manipulation\" against Navinder Singh Sarao, a trader. Among the charges included was the use of spoofing algorithms.\n\nOn June 22, 2017, the price of Ethereum, the second-largest digital cryptocurrency, dropped from more than $300 to as low as $0.10 in minutes at GDAX exchange. Suspected for market manipulation or an account takeover at first, later investigation by GDAX claimed no indication of wrongdoing. The crash was triggered by a multimillion-dollar selling order which brought the price down, from $317.81 to $224.48, and caused the following flood of 800 stop-loss and margin funding liquidation orders, crashing the market.\n\nOn October 7, 2016, there was a flash crash in the value of sterling, which dropped more than 6% in two minutes against the US dollar. It was the pound's lowest level against the dollar since May 1985. The pound recovered much of its value in the next few minutes, but ended down on the day's trading, most likely due to market concerns about the impact of a \"hard Brexit\"—a more complete break with the European Union following Britain's 'Leave' referendum vote in June. It was initially speculated that the flash crash may have been due to a fat-finger trader error or an algorithm reacting to negative news articles about the British Government's European policy.\n\nIn October 2013, a flash crash occurred on the Singapore Exchange which wiped out $6.9 billion in capitalization and saw some stocks lose up to 87 percent of their value. The crash resulted in new regulations being announced in August 2014. Minimum trading prices of 0.20 cents per share would be introduced, short positions would be required to be reported, and a 5 percent collateral levy implemented. The exchange said the measures were to curb excessive speculation and potential share price manipulation.\n\nTwo short-lived (less than a second) movements (more than 1%) in several (40 and 88) stock prices followed by recovery were reported for November 25, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8886560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8886560", "title": "Going to America", "text": "Going to America\n\n\"Going to America\" is the final episode of the Channel 4 sitcom \"Father Ted\". It is the eighth episode of the third series and the 25th episode overall. The show's star Dermot Morgan died the day after filming was completed.\n\nAfter Ted prevents a depressed Father Kevin (Tommy Tiernan) from jumping to his death at the \"It's Great Being a Priest\" conference, an American priest, Father Buzz Cagney (Jeff Harding), asks him if he will come to a parish in Los Angeles. Ted cannot wait and excitedly tells Jack, Dougal and Mrs. Doyle, who incorrectly think they will be able to come with him. Ted does not have the heart to tell them otherwise and brings them to the airport, leaving them there while he gets on the plane. However, Ted has second thoughts when Buzz mentions the gang culture around Ted's new parish in Los Angeles and its violent state. Realising he is in serious trouble, Ted abandons going on his trip and rejoins Jack, Dougal and Mrs Doyle. It transpires that the three of them never wanted to go to the States anyway, with the possible exception of Jack, who yells 'Feck!' when he learns of what has gone wrong, though the promise of a drink cheers him up. The group leaves the airport and heads for home, and Ted resigns himself to the fact he is probably never going to escape Craggy Island.\n\nThe episode was always intended to be the last \"Father Ted\"; in the original script, the last scene was to be set at the \"It's \"Still\" Great Being a Priest\" conference with Father Kevin once again on the window ledge and once again Ted arriving on the ledge, except this time it is not to stop him from jumping but to join him, because he was depressed that the intended trip to America fell through and he would have to stay on Craggy Island forever. This ending was abandoned in favour of a montage of clips from all three series of the show, although this was not (as believed) because of the death of Dermot Morgan. Rather, the writers did not think that their original ending was very funny.\n\nThe episode was filmed on 27 February 1998, the day before Morgan died.\n\nThis episode does not normally contain a credits sequence at the end, as it is replaced by the clips montage. The episode's guest cast is listed alongside the lead actors in the opening credits.\n\nWhile filming the scene in which Ted dances to \"Theme from \"Shaft\",\" Tommy Tiernan continually flubbed his lines. As a result, Dermot Morgan was required to perform the dance repeatedly, despite pains in his heart. In a 2009 interview, Tiernan speculated that this contributed to Morgan's fatal heart attack the following day.\n\nA clip is shown from each episode, in reverse order of airdate.\nThe final shot is an exterior view of the parochial house at dusk. Ted and Dougal say goodnight to each other (stock audio from the episode \"New Jack City\") and the light in their bedroom is switched off.\n\n"}
{"id": "20286291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20286291", "title": "Ignite Film Festival", "text": "Ignite Film Festival\n\nThe Ignite Film Festival is a Christian short film festival held annually in Sydney, Australia. The major goal of the festival is to develop young Christian film makers and to encourage people to be creative about communicating the truths of the Bible. Each film is no longer than five minutes and includes the theme for the year.\n\nEach year, Ignite Film Festival has a theme of an item or action being incorporated in the entry films to ensure that they are unique.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25953674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25953674", "title": "International ICT Expo", "text": "International ICT Expo\n\nInternational ICT Expo is organised by the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (HKTDC) and is held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in April every year. \n\nThe Expo includes the following product and service zones: Enterprise Solutions; Computer & Peripherals; Telecom, Networking & Wireless Technologies; IT Outsourcing; Digitainment & Multimedia; e-Logistics & Retail Technologies; Home-grown Innovations; and Trade Related Services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16809030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16809030", "title": "International reactions to Fitna", "text": "International reactions to Fitna\n\nThe International reaction to \"Fitna\" consisted of condemnation from Muslims, several fatwa against Geert Wilders, and attempts by many Islamic countries to censor the film. The Dutch government immediately distanced itself from the film. Several Muslim organizations and political parties organized boycotts against Dutch products.\n\nIt was feared that the film would lead to violent demonstrations by Muslims much like the organized protests against the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons that were published in the Danish newspaper \"Jyllands-Posten\" in 2005. The Dutch counter-terrorism agency raised its terror risk level from \"limited\" to \"substantial\", noting Islamist death threats against Wilders and calls to attack Dutch troops. Previous violence included the burning of the Danish embassy in Syria and other acts of violence around the world, including the murder of a Catholic nun.\n\nThe movie was first mentioned in the Dutch media on November 27, 2007. The Dutch government almost immediately expressed great concern about the film release. It made evacuation plans available to all its consulates and embassies worldwide and tightened security measures around military installations abroad.\n\nThe Prime minister of the Netherlands, Jan Peter Balkenende, worried about possible repercussions for Dutch citizens and economic interests. In response Wilders accused Balkenende of capitulating to Islam.\n\nWilders had been warned by Dutch National Counterterrorism Co-ordinator that his film may \"lead to reactions that endanger public order, security and the economy\". The publication of the film was investigated by the Dutch Ministry of Justice to find out whether the release of the film could be prevented, but this could not be done. In an opinion poll, 54% of Dutch people still believed that the film should be released, despite any possible negative effects.\n\nOn March 6, 2008, the Dutch government raised its national risk level of a terrorist attack from the status 'limited' to 'substantial' because of concerns that Muslim terrorists would launch attacks against European targets, using the film as justification.\n\nA demonstration against the release of the film occurred in Dam Square, in Amsterdam, on 22 March 2008. In response to concerns, Dutch broadcaster \"Radio Netherlands Worldwide\" created a multi-language website to detail the film, the surrounding controversy, its creator, and the nation of its origin. The Dutch newspaper \"De Pers\" printed a reconstruction of how the concerns came about and who was responsible for them.\n\nA large advertisement was placed on the front page of \"de Volkskrant\" stating that if Wilders had said the things he has said about Muslims, about Jews, he would have been prosecuted for antisemitism. The advertisement was endorsed by the Jewish organisations \"Stichting de Initiavieven\" and \"Een Ander Joods Geluid\".\n\nOn 7 April 2008, Indonesia blocked access to YouTube and a number of other websites, such as MySpace and Multiply. Minister of Menkon Info Muhammad Nuh passed a bill that forced 146 ISP's in Indonesia to block access to YouTube on Monday. Kompas confirmed that the reason for the block was YouTube's refusal to remove \"Fitna\" from their servers. The block has now been removed, and the foreign relation minister has apologised to the people for any inconvenience.\n\nThe EU alerted its diplomatic missions around the world to expect a reaction to the release of the film.\n\nNATO said it feared that the consequences of \"Fitna\" would affect the safety of troops in Afghanistan. Indeed, Zabihullah Mujahid stressed that the Taliban would increase their attacks on Dutch military and humanitarian peacekeepers in Afghanistan, if the film were released.\n\nPresident Nicolas Sarkozy declared that France would provide the support to the Netherlands in the event of international problems.\n\nIran threatened to review its diplomatic stance with the Netherlands if the film was aired. Public protests occurred in Kabul, Afghanistan. Egypt said it was closely monitoring the situation.\n\nIn February 2008, Pakistan internally banned YouTube for several days due to a video clip one report claimed to be a trailer for \"Fitna\"; the ban was lifted a few days later. As a result of the block, Pakistan accidentally caused YouTube to be unavailable worldwide for two hours.\n\nThe Grand Mufti, Ahmad Badr al-Din, said that if Geert Wilders showed the image of a burning Qur'an in his film, the Dutch people will be held responsible and possible attacks against Western public interests would not be not out of the question.\n\nWilders is the subject of a fatwa, associated with Al-Qaeda, calling upon Muslims to assassinate him in the name of Islam.\n\nOn 5 March 2008, a preliminary version of the movie's official website, fitnathemovie.com, went online. The only page on the site consisted of a picture of the Qur'an accompanied by the text \"Geert Wilders presents Fitna\" and \"Coming soon\". On 22 March, the hosting provider of the website, Network Solutions, replaced the page with a message stating that the company “is investigating whether the site's content is in violation of the Network Solutions Acceptable Use Policy” and that “Network Solutions has received a number of complaints regarding this site that are under investigation.”\n\nOn March 24, Network Solutions issued a press release saying the company asked Wilders for a copy of the film to review to gauge compliance with the Acceptable Use Policy, and it was only after they received no response from Wilders that they suspended the website. Wilders responded saying he had other options available and that his film would be made public before 1 April. The shutdown was followed by extensive criticism of Network Solutions' alleged hypocrisy in hosting the domain of Hezbollah, an entity that the United States and the Netherlands (along with four other countries) designate as a terrorist organization. On March 26, Network Solutions shut down the hizbollah.org domain as well.\n\nThe reaction was mild in comparison with what was expected, with some Muslim delegates describing it as “not as jarring as anticipated”, saying they were “extremely relieved”. A worldwide violent reaction did not materialise, in stark contrast with threats made by Islamic leaders in the months before the release of the film. Death threats did occur against Wilders and the company that hosted the film. \n\nIn a televised reaction following the release, Jan Peter Balkenende, Prime Minister of the Netherlands, gave his reaction on behalf of the Dutch government.\nAmongst other things, it stated:\nThe film equates Islam with violence. We reject this interpretation. The vast majority of Muslims reject extremism and violence. In fact, the victims are often also Muslims... ...We therefore regret that Mr Wilders has released this film. We believe it serves no purpose other than to cause offence.\nDutch parliamentarians of the largest political parties, Pieter van Geel (CDA), Mariëtte Hamer (PvdA) and Mark Rutte (VVD) stated that it was sad that the film did not present any solutions to current problems in the Dutch society - integration of Muslim immigrants and Muslim extremism - and invited Mr. Wilders to discuss possible solutions in the parliament. In a later parliamentary debate to discuss Balkenende's televised reaction, they expressed further opinions, calling the film 'cunningly made with evil intentions' (CDA), 'a message of fear beyond compare' (PvDA) and 'paranoid' (SP). Wilders was described as a 'political pyromaniac' (VVD) and a 'fearful man' (D66).\n\nAccording to \"Der Spiegel\", a speaker for the Muslim organization \"Contactorgaan Moslims en Overheid\" (CMO), Yusuf Altuntas, said that Wilders \"is obviously looking to push the limits, but he resists crossing them.\" For instance, in the film a ripping sound overlaid with imagery of the Qur'an is said to be the ripping of a page from the phone book, and thunder sounds are replacing what might otherwise be perceived as bomb explosion sounds. The Arabic expert Leo Kwarten on the other hand said that \"these subtleties may however be lost in the Arabic world.\"\n\nThe \"Centraal Joods Overleg\" (Central Jewish Committee) released a statement on March 28, 2008, condemning the film for reinforcing prejudices by implying that all Muslims are terrorists. The Committee said that the portrayal of Muslims in this manner was counterproductive, and that the Dutch Jewish community, along with the Dutch Muslim community and all of Dutch society, has a duty to combat all religious-based terrorism, and to protect everyone against those who wish to overthrow democracy or promote religious hatred.\n\nPolitician, and former Muslim, Ehsan Jami had intended to release an animated cartoon entitled \"The Life of Mohammed\" on April 20, 2008. The film, critical of Islam and Muhammad, was to depict Muhammad as a \"sexual pervert\" for the consummation of his marriage to Aisha when she was nine or ten years old at the time. In one clip, Muhammad is shown with an erection, taking the girl to a mosque adorned with a Nazi swastika, in preparation of her deflowering. Following calls from the Minister of Justice, Ernst Hirsch Ballin, to not increase tension in society, Jami decided against its release. He spoke of his fears that the Dutch police would be unable to adequately protect his safety, and of the possibility of a fatwa calling for his death being issued by Iran.\n\nThe Dutch Islamic Federation petitioned a judge for a judgement on Geert Wilders on allegations of hate speech law violations. Wilders was found not guilty of spreading hate.\n\nIn November 2008, a pamphlet that was distributed to children aged 10–12 years compared \"Fitna\" to \"Mein Kampf\", stating that \"Geert Wilders’ film Fitna and Adolf Hitler’s Mein Kampf are based upon one-sided points-of-view. Fortunately there are also other books and plays that -on the contrary- show respect for people with other ideas or faiths or that look different.\" \n\nIn Algeria, the Minister for Religious Affairs said that \"Fitna\" is \"a recurrent expression of the fascism which is abhorred by all cultures\", and the country's imams have been ordered to denounce the film.\n\nIn Egypt, Foreign minister referred to Wilders' film as \"a humiliation\" to Islam, calling it \"nothing less than repugnant,\" and stating that \"Egypt rejects any offence or denigration of Islam and its prophet.\"\n\nPresident Omar al-Bashir of Sudan called on Muslims to \"challenge those who insult\" Muhammad, and asked for \"a binding international charter\" for the respect of religious beliefs. al-Bashir continued: \"\"The offenses against our Arab and Islamic nations under the banner of freedom of expression are derogatory and defamatory and go against all human values.\"\n\nMurat Ali Jumanov, the Grand Mufti of Kyrgyzstan, denounced the film, saying that it defames Islam and the Koran. He urged Kyrgyzstan's Muslim population to counter the hostility of the film's release.\n\nThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh \"condemned in the strongest terms\" the release of \"Fitna\". It said that \"Islam is a faith of peace which preaches patience and understanding,\" and the film's \"unwarranted and mindless release can have grave consequences.\"\n\nIn an editorial for the independent English-language Bangladeshi newspaper \"Weekly Blitz\", under the editorship of Salah Choudhury, there were many opinions expressed in condemnation of the Muslim world's response: \"The Muslim world that is vocal and vociferous in its demands for censorship in the West is going through a reenergized paroxysm of anger and hate,\" the newspaper said, and asked \"is it realistic to mandate that 100% of the world’s population must be pro-Koran and pro-Muslim?\" The editorial stated that \"Fitna's\" relative artistic or philosophical worth is irrelevant, and that its release is an issue of individual rights, freedom of speech, critical thinking, and the West's cultural inheritance of 3,000 years of civilization. The editorial continued to question Muslim countries' censorship and restriction of free speech, satirically saying that \"we should ask them firmly yet politely exactly how they so effectively censor the existing hate speech, the rampant anti-Semitic and anti-West propaganda that fill their media, Mosques, schools and universities on an hourly basis, every day, almost without exclusion.\" The newspaper noted the hypocrisy of how Islam interacts with other religions, saying that Islam has \"such unrivaled respect and such unprejudiced consideration for Christianity, Judaism and the rest of the world’s religious cultures and beliefs.\" It notes that anti-government, pro-democratic, and \"moderate or revolutionary speech and actions within their societies\" are censored, and that multiculturalism, freedom of religion, and \"unqualified personal expression\" is prohibited.\n\nPakistan called for a discussion of the film at the next Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) summit. According to the APP, the country's official news agency, the Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi condemned \"Fitna\" as being anti-Islamic. He said that the film was part of a series of incitingly discriminatory actions against Islam, made by the Western media. Quereshi said that the Pakistani government, and its people, are highly sensitive towards such actions made in the name of freedom of expression. Outside the Karachi Press Club, an effigy of Wilders, and the Dutch flag, was burned in a protest.\n\nIn a speech to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) on 1 April, the ambassador and permanent representative of Pakistan to the United Nations, Masood Khan, said that the film was a \"blatant provocation,\" had \"distorted the message of the Holy Qur'an,\" was xenophobic and religiously intolerant. He called for the UNHRC to do more than condemn or adopt resolutions. As such, a Pakistani-sponsored United Nations resolution calling for the monitoring of \"abuse of the right of freedom of expression\" was successfully passed. The measure was accepted after achieving the required number of votes from Islamic countries, while European countries and Canada abstained. On behalf of the OIC, Khan said that the resolution will require people to exercise their freedom of expression responsibly. This drew criticism from Reporters Without Borders, whose press statement read: \nThe growing influence of Organisation of the Islamic Conference member states within the Human Rights Council is disturbing. All of the council’s decisions are nowadays determined by the interests of the Muslim countries or powerful states such as China or Russia that know how to surround themselves with allies.\nThe secretary-general of the OIC, Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, spoke of helping a co-ordinated strategy made by the Ummah, the diaspora of Muslims living in non-Muslim countries, to combat a campaign of defamaing Islam in the West. İhsanoğlu had previously condemned the film as \"causing insult to the sentiments of more than 1.3 billion Muslims in the world,\" and that it was \"a deliberate act of discrimination against Muslims\" that would \"threaten the security and stability of the world.\"\n\nOn 6 April 2008, five thousand members of the Jamaat-e-Islami political party held a demonstration in Karachi, in protest against both Wilders' film and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons. The leader of the political party stated that \"such shameful acts can never be tolerated in the name of freedom of expression or press,\" and asserted that anyone who committed a crime of provoking Muslims should be declared \"terrorists\".\n\nOn 3 May 2008, around 5000 Muslims gathered in Karachi, Pakistan in a protest against Wilder's film, chanting \"Death to the blasphemer\" and burned an effigy of Wilders. In Afghanistan, the Taliban murdered two Dutch soldiers in retaliation for the film.\n\nPresident Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia banned Wilders from entering the country, and prohibited the film from being broadcast. About 50 members of a hardline Muslim group demonstrated at the Dutch embassy in the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, throwing eggs and water bottles to the embassy compound. Protesters held signs saying \"Death Sentence for Humiliating Islam\", amid images of guns aimed at his head, and \"Kill Geert Wilders\". Indonesia blocked access to YouTube, after its demand that copies of the film be removed from YouTube servers was not implemented. The ban was lifted on April 11, following protests and allegations of censorship from users, with Indonesian communications minister Muhammad Nuh apologising for “the inconvenience caused”. Internet Service Providers said that they would instead try to block access to individual pages carrying \"Fitna\".\n\nOn April 2, a Dutch consulate in the Indonesian city of Medan was the scene of a student protest. The Dutch national flag was torn from its pillar and burned, and about 50 students broke through the consulate gates.\n\nIn a letter to the state-owned Indonesian news agency Antara, Dutch ambassador Nikolaos van Dam said how Dutch society is one of peaceful co-existence, with respect for the law, which guarantees safety and freedom of speech and freedom of religion. He said that Holland has a tradition of respect, tolerance and responsibility, and that offending others is not part of that tradition; he called for everyone else to act in a similar spirit. Van Dam also expressed his government's desire to remain in open contact with everyone who wishes peaceful dialogue, to build a society \"more firmly grounded in mutual understanding and respect.\"\n\nAhmad Zahid Hamidi, a member of the Cabinet of Malaysia government, urged Muslim intellectuals and youths to \"take advantage of their resourcefulness and skills which they had used against the establishment, this time to defend Islam\" through the internet; a reference to when hackers defaced a governmental webpage in protest of a proposed ban on pornography. The Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, an opposition policial party, delivered a letter to the Dutch embassy warning that the film would \"invite vengeance\", and, along with former president Mahathir bin Mohamad, called for a worldwide Muslim boycott of Dutch goods. Bin Mohamad said: \"If the world's 1.3 billion Muslims unite and say they won't buy, then it [the boycott] will be effective.\" The \"Muslim Consumers Association of Malaysia\", the \"Consultative Council\", and the \"Muslim Restaurants Association of Malaysia\" released a joint statement referring to \"Fitna\" as having insulted the Koran, and called on Muslims to boycott Dutch goods. Malay supermarket Mydin has marked Dutch goods in red, indicating their country of origin.\n\nThere was a demonstration outside the Dutch embassy in Kuala Lumpur on 4 April 2008, attended by approximately fifty members of the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party. Slogans such as \"Long live Islam\" and \"Crush the Netherlands\" were shouted. A leader of the political party said: \"He wants to insult Islam, insult our prophet, insult our Quran,\" and called for a fatwa ordering Wilders' death. The Dutch ambassador's response was: \"The call for the death of Mr Wilders is a very emotional one, which in no way can be justified.\"\n\nSingapore issued a statement strongly condemning the film, with deputy prime minister Wong Kan Seng saying: \"Freedom of expression does not give anyone the licence to insult another's religion or race.\"\n\nThe Bahrain News Agency, the government-operated news agency for Bahrain, released a statement regarding the film. Through the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, the government referred to Wilders as slanderous, and that \"Fitna\" was part of \"the escalating hostility and unjust war waged from time to time against Islam.\" The Supreme Council called for \"peaceful protests that reflect the civilized aspect of Islam,\" and recommended dialogue with the West to \"spread the true tenets of Islam and shed light on the life and precepts of prophet Mohammed.\" The Supreme Council also called for Islamic countries and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to push for a United Nations resolution to criminalise blasphemy against Islam, \"for the sake of global peace and harmony\".\n\nMohammad Ali Hosseini, a spokesman for Iran's ministry of foreign affairs said \"Fitna\" was \"heinous\", blasphemous, and that its release \"is indicative of the continuation of the evilness and deep vengeance such Western nationals have against Islam and Muslims.\" Iran's government spokesperson, Gholam-Hossein Elham, said that \"The new wave of the fight against Islam and promoting Islamophobia, which was started by the U.S., has so far opposite effects in the world of Islam as well as other parts of the globe.\" Elham stated that the governments 'of the countries where the anti-Islamic moves have been made' would, in future, prevent any further actions against Islam, saying that 'insults against the holy prophet of Islam and the divine religion were against the principles of freedom of expression'. In Tehran, approximately seventy members of the paramilitary force Basij protested outside the Dutch embassy. They chanted slogans such as \"Down with USA\", \"Down with Israel\", \"Dutch Ambassador to Iran Should Be Expelled\", and called for the closure of Royal Dutch Shell and Philips. A spokesperson for the protesters said that the release of the film was a ploy by imperialists to harm Muslim countries, insult Muhammad, and stage a Crusade, adding: \"We will never remain silent in the face of ploys by domestic or foreign enemies. During a sermon on 4 April, broadcast on Iranian state radio, Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami accused the \"Zionist entity\" of \"Fitna's\" making and release. He said: \"Behind these satanic acts can be found the oppressive powers and the Zionist regime.\" Of Wilders, Khatami said: \"This poor Dutch deputy has made 40 trips to Israel over the past 25 years.\" Khatami concluded that \"we see the hand of the Zionist regime behind these satanic acts and we cry 'death to Israel'.\" He stated that \"Fitna\" and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were a reaction against the \"blossoming of Islam,\" and that \"these films and caricatures are disseminated under the pretext of freedom of information in Europe. This is a great lie of Western liberal democracy, because anyone who speaks out against the official version of the Holocaust is jailed,\" referring to Holocaust denial.\nKhatami spoke of a Europe actively engaged in defaming Islam, saying that \"there is a catchy disease spreading in Europe today, whose victims feel obliged to insult Islam and to fight against the Muslims,\" mentioning the conversion of Magdi Allam from Islam to Catholicism as further proof of his statements. He claimed that European \"plans\" that had been \"devised for hundreds of years have borne absolutely no fruit, which is the reason why they have begun conducting such wretched moves.\" Khatami said that \"such moves are made in Europe under the cover of freedom of expression prove that such a freedom does not exist there, since as soon as an intellectual begins talking about the Holocaust, they put him to trial, condemn his move, and imprison him.\" He claimed that Islam in the Netherlands is increasing, saying that \"the Dutch have also bought a large number of electronic versions of Qur'an in their own language and a large number of people in Holland have openly announced they have converted to Islam.\"\n\n53 parliamentarians of Jordan have signed a petition, calling on Prime Minister Nader Dahabi to expel the Dutch ambassador and sever all diplomatic ties with Holland. Jordan also summoned Wilders to court, as Fitna was deemed to incite hatred.\n\nThe Dutch ambassador of Qatar said that: \"In Holland, we have full freedom of expression. There is absolutely no censorship. People are expected to behave responsibly and those who cross the limits will be accountable for their actions.\"\n\nThe Saudi Arabian embassy in The Hague called the film provocative and \"full of errors\", that could ultimately lead to hatred of Muslims.\n\nThe Directorate of Religious Affairs in Turkey condemned the film as being 'incompatible with freedom of speech and thought', saying that it \"aimed to portray Muslims as potential terrorists and to gradually exclude them from the international community.\" The Directorate said that \"Islam is unfortunately face-to-face with a new 'fitna' due to the film, which promotes discrimination, hatred and violence.\" It continued to say that the film's objective was to create worldwide prejudice against Islam, and that \"it is a serious indication of irresponsibility that in the film negative implications are directed at Muslim religious scholars, who never refrain from sharing their knowledge on religion with the Dutch government.\" The Directorate said that followers of other religions also did not accept the notion that terrorism is associated with Muslims, and that \"this is an auspicious development for restoring peace among different cultures in the world.\"\n\nUnited Arab Emirates Foreign minister, Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, condemned the film as being critical and insulting to Muhammad.\n\nThe Yemeni parliament condemned the film, calling it inflammatory, discriminatory towards Muslims, and promoting religious violence and hatred, whilst stressing the need to respect all religions, cultures, and civilizations without prejudice.\n\nIn Denmark, Kurt Westergaard, the cartoonist from one of the Jyllands-Posten cartoons of Muhammed, has expressed concerns because his cartoon is used in the film without his permission, a violation of copyright. The Danish Union of Journalists has said it will file a lawsuit on Westergaard's behalf as he is still in hiding from the death threats against him. Westergaard says his cartoon was aimed against Islamic terrorists, not against Muslims. Similarly Dutch director announced to file a lawsuit because of the uncredited use of his interview with Theo van Gogh.\nWestergaard drew a new cartoon showing Geert Wilders with a bomb on his head and a sign saying \"Danger! Freedom of expression\".\n\nThe Norwegian government (Labour Party) sharply distanced itself from the movie. Secretary of state Raymond Johansen from the Norwegian Foreign Ministry said in a statement to the newspaper \"Dagsavisen\" that \"Wilders attempts to promote a content which contributes to hatred and suspicion. I profoundly disagree with the content, and I sharply distance myself from it.\" Per-Willy Amundsen, Spokesperson on Immigration Issues of the opposition Progress Party, however found the film largely correct, and challenged Johansen to present what that was false about it.\n\nUnited Kingdom: Foreign Minister David Miliband announced his commitment to the “European values of freedom of speech” but said “in each of our countries” there are legal checks to ensure speech could not incite religious or racial hatred.\n\nAustralian Minister for foreign affairs, Stephen Smith, \"deplored\" the film's release, saying that it is \"an obvious attempt to generate discord between faith communities,\" and accused it of inciting racial hatred.\n\nSuriname: With 22% of its population being Muslim. Suriname has the highest Islamic population by percentage in the New World. The Surinamese agreement of Muslims launched a statement which said: \"We regret the fact that the Dutch MP Geert wilders abuses feelings of fear and ignorance across the white Dutch population by insulting en bashing the Islam systematically...His latest provocation (the film Fitna) is a insult to the Islam and its 1,3 billion followers across the world\".\n\nAfter the release of the film, a number of international organizations released statements or otherwise responded to the film. United Nations' Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon stated on March 28, 2008 that\n\nIn its statement, The Muslim World League said that \"Fitna's\" release was \"[an] offensive act that aims to spread discord between people.\" The European Union’s Slovenian president repudiated the film, commenting that it served “no other purpose than inflaming hatred”. The EU foreign ministers also condemned the film. “The film equates Islam with violence and this view is sharply rejected”, the ministers said in their statement, released after a meeting in Brdo, Slovenia. Europe’s highest human rights authority, the Strasbourg based Council of Europe, called the film “a distasteful manipulation which exploits ignorance, prejudice and fear”.\n\nLengthier responses were released by the Arab European League and the Union of NGOs of the Islamic World.\n\nThe Union of NGOs of the Islamic World (UNIW) issued a press release, stating that the film \"heavily included insults to the Holy Qur’an and to the Islamic values.\" The UNIW said that distribution of such Islamophobic material, as well as other forms of Islamophobia such as the theatrical interpretation of Salman Rushdie's novel, \"The Satanic Verses\", and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons, should be banned in Europe. It said that \"humiliation of the values that are held in high esteem by people cannot be justified by the freedom of speech\" or artistic expression. It stated that \"freedom of speech and disseminating ideas do not amount to the right to insult,\" and that no-one's \"sacred values\" should be humiliated. It went on to call for European states to \"not give permission to such publications, broadcasts and policies,\" and asked that they \"take the necessary regulations that shall regard the Islamophobic acts and incidents as a crime.\" The UNIW likened Islamophobia to antisemitism and its legal status in Europe, saying that if Islamophobia and Islamophobic publications are not made illegal, \"marginal extremist-racist groups that are after discrimination may be strengthened.\" It said that Islamophobia is an infringement of human rights, and \"a perilous discrimination.\" It said: The reason why Muslim public opinion have not overreacted to these aforementioned broadcasts, policies and events is that they have a common sense stemming from their belief. Nevertheless, it does not mean that they shall never react. It should be ensured that Muslim public opinion react to these all the Anti-Islamist broadcasts, policies and acts through peaceful means.\nThe UNIW called on Europe \"to use their common sense and heed, and to revise their attitudes in order to build social peace.\"\nThe Arab European League released a short film, \"Al Mouftinoun\", in response to \"Fitna\". It was released March 28 on YouTube, one day after \"Fitna\" was released. \"Al Mouftinoun\" criticizes Fitna's director Wilders as a racist. The film was created by the AEL because they find that Muslims are being marginalised and discriminated against by \"Fitna\".\n\nOn their website, the AEL claimed the following:\n\nThe announced movie of Wilders and the Danish cartoons are part of an agenda to provoke Muslims in Europe and around the world under the flag of freedom of expression. There can be no doubt about their intentions. Defending their statements with the right of expression is deceptive. There should be a debate on the content.\nThe right-wing movement should not be underestimated. They represent a large part of European society. They are advocating for the eradication of equality as a constitutional law. And more often advocating for constriction of the rights of ethnic minorities. The right-wing movement in the Netherlands and in Europe in general is not compatible with its own \"Western values.\"\n"}
{"id": "3053701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3053701", "title": "Iron harvest", "text": "Iron harvest\n\nThe iron harvest is the annual \"harvest\" of unexploded ordnance, barbed wire, shrapnel, bullets and congruent trench supports collected by Belgian and French farmers after plowing their fields. The harvest generally applies to the material from World War I, which is still found in large quantities across the former Western Front.\n\nDuring World War I an estimated one tonne of explosives was fired for every square meter of territory on the Western front. As many as one in every three shells fired did not detonate. In the Ypres Salient, an estimated 300 million projectiles that the British and the German forces fired at each other during World War I were duds, and most of them have not been recovered. In 2013, 160 tonnes of munitions, from bullets to 15 inch naval gun shells, were unearthed from the areas around Ypres.\n\nUnexploded weapons—in the form of shells, bullets, and grenades—buried themselves on impact or were otherwise quickly swallowed in the mud. As time passes, construction work, field plowing, and natural processes bring the rusting shells to the surface. Most of the iron harvest is found during the spring planting and autumn plowing as the region of northern France and Flanders are rich agricultural areas. Farmers collect the munitions and place them along the boundaries of fields or other collection points for authorities.\n\nDespite the condition of the shells, they remain very dangerous. The French \"Département du Déminage\" (Department of Mine Clearance) recovers about 900 tons of unexploded munitions every year. Since 1945, approximately 630 French clearers have died handling unexploded munitions. Two died handling munitions outside Vimy, France as recently as 1998. Over 20 members of Belgian Explosive Ordnance Disposal (DOVO) have died disposing of First World War munitions since the unit was formed in 1919. Civilian deaths are also common. In just the area around Ypres, 260 people have been killed and 535 have been injured by unexploded munitions since the end of the First World War. Shells containing poisonous gas remain viable and will corrode and release their gas content. Close to five percent of the shells fired during the First World War contained poisonous gas and ordnance disposal experts continue to suffer burns from mustard gas shells that were split open.\n\nIn Belgium, iron harvest discovered by farmers is carefully placed around field edges, or in gaps in telegraph poles, where it is regularly collected by the Belgian army for disposal by controlled explosion at a specialist center in Poelkapelle. The depot was built after ocean dumping of shells stopped in 1980. Once extracted by the army, the gas chemicals are burned and destroyed at high temperatures at specialized facilities and the explosives detonated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4323521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4323521", "title": "J-integral", "text": "J-integral\n\nThe J-integral represents a way to calculate the strain energy release rate, or work (energy) per unit fracture surface area, in a material. The theoretical concept of J-integral was developed in 1967 by Cherepanov and in 1968 by Jim Rice independently, who showed that an energetic contour path integral (called \"J\") was independent of the path around a crack.\n\nLater, experimental methods were developed, which allowed measurement of critical fracture properties using laboratory-scale specimens for materials in which sample sizes are too small and for which the assumptions of Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics (LEFM) do not hold, and to infer a critical value of fracture energy \"J\". The quantity \"J\" defines the point at which large-scale plastic yielding during propagation takes place under mode one loading.\n\nThe J-integral is equal to the strain energy release rate for a crack in a body subjected to monotonic loading. This is generally true, under quasistatic conditions, only for linear elastic materials. For materials that experience small-scale yielding at the crack tip, \"J\" can be used to compute the energy release rate under special circumstances such as monotonic loading in mode III (antiplane shear). The strain energy release rate can also be computed from \"J\" for pure power-law hardening plastic materials that undergo small-scale yielding at the crack tip.\n\nThe quantity \"J\" is not path-independent for monotonic mode I and mode II loading of elastic-plastic materials, so only a contour very close to the crack tip gives the energy release rate. Also, Rice showed that \"J\" is path-independent in plastic materials when there is no non-proportional loading. Unloading is a special case of this, but non-proportional plastic loading also invalidates the path-independence. Such non-proportional loading is the reason for the path-dependence for the in-plane loading modes on elastic-plastic materials.\n\nThe two-dimensional J-integral was originally defined as (see Figure 1 for an illustration)\nwhere \"W\"(\"x\",\"x\") is the strain energy density, \"x\",\"x\" are the coordinate directions, t = [σ]n is the surface traction vector, n is the normal to the curve Γ, [σ] is the Cauchy stress tensor, and u is the displacement vector. The strain energy density is given by\nThe J-integral around a crack tip is frequently expressed in a more general form (and in index notation) as \nwhere formula_4 is the component of the J-integral for crack opening in the formula_5 direction and formula_6 is a small region around the crack tip.\nUsing Green's theorem we can show that this integral is zero when the boundary formula_7 is closed and encloses a region that contains no singularities and is simply connected. If the faces of the crack do not have any surface tractions on them then the J-integral is also path independent.\n\nRice also showed that the value of the J-integral represents the energy release rate for planar crack growth.\nThe J-integral was developed because of the difficulties involved in computing the stress close to a crack in a nonlinear elastic or elastic-plastic material. Rice showed that if monotonic loading was assumed (without any plastic unloading) then the J-integral could be used to compute the energy release rate of plastic materials too.\n\nFor isotropic, perfectly brittle, linear elastic materials, the J-integral can be directly related to the fracture toughness if the crack extends straight ahead with respect to its original orientation.\n\nFor plane strain, under Mode I loading conditions, this relation is\nwhere formula_9 is the critical strain energy release rate, formula_10 is the fracture toughness in Mode I loading, formula_11 is the Poisson's ratio, and \"E\" is the Young's modulus of the material.\n\nFor Mode II loading, the relation between the J-integral and the mode II fracture toughness (formula_12) is\n\nFor Mode III loading, the relation is \n\nHutchinson, Rice and Rosengren subsequently showed that J characterizes the singular stress and strain fields at the tip of a crack in nonlinear (power law hardening) elastic-plastic materials where the size of the plastic zone is small compared with the crack length. Hutchinson used a material constitutive law of the form suggested by Ramberg and Osgood:\nwhere \"σ\" is the stress in uniaxial tension, \"σ\" is a yield stress, \"ε\" is the strain, and \"ε\" = \"σ\"/\"E\" is the corresponding yield strain. The quantity \"E\" is the elastic Young's modulus of the material. The model is parametrized by \"α\", a dimensionless constant characteristic of the material, and \"n\", the coefficient of work hardening. This model is applicable only to situations where the stress increases monotonically, the stress components remain approximately in the same ratios as loading progresses (proportional loading), and there is no unloading.\n\nIf a far-field tensile stress \"σ\" is applied to the body shown in the adjacent figure, the J-integral around the path Γ (chosen to be completely inside the elastic zone) is given by\nSince the total integral around the crack vanishes and the contributions along the surface of the crack are zero, we have\nIf the path Γ is chosen such that it is inside the fully plastic domain, Hutchinson showed that\nwhere \"K\" is a stress amplitude, (\"r\",\"θ\") is a polar coordinate system with origin at the crack tip, \"s\" is a constant determined from an asymptotic expansion of the stress field around the crack, and \"I\" is a dimensionless integral. The relation between the J-integrals around Γ and Γ leads to the constraint\nand an expression for \"K\" in terms of the far-field stress\nwhere \"β\" = 1 for plane stress and \"β\" = 1 − \"ν\" for plane strain (\"ν\" is the Poisson's ratio).\n\nThe asymptotic expansion of the stress field and the above ideas can be used to determine the stress and strain fields in terms of the J-integral:\nwhere formula_23 and formula_24 are dimensionless functions.\n\nThese expressions indicate that \"J\" can be interpreted as a plastic analog to the stress intensity factor (\"K\") that is used in linear elastic fracture mechanics, i.e., we can use a criterion such as \"J\" > \"J\" as a crack growth criterion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41418399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41418399", "title": "John Wick (film)", "text": "John Wick (film)\n\nJohn Wick is a 2014 American neo-noir action thriller film directed by Chad Stahelski and David Leitch from a screenplay by Derek Kolstad. It stars Keanu Reeves, Michael Nyqvist, Alfie Allen, Adrianne Palicki, Bridget Moynahan, Dean Winters, Ian McShane, John Leguizamo and Willem Dafoe.\n\nThe first installment in the \"John Wick\" film series, the story focuses on John Wick (Reeves), a retired hitman seeking vengeance for the theft of his vintage car and the killing of his puppy, which serves as a memento of his recently deceased wife (Moynahan). Stahelski and Leitch directed the film together, though only Stahelski was credited.\n\nKolstad had completed the screenplay in 2012 and further developed it for Thunder Road Pictures. The film was produced by Basil Iwanyk of Thunder Road Pictures, Leitch, Eva Longoria, and Michael Witherill. It marks Stahelski and Leitch's directorial debut as a team after multiple separate credits as second-unit directors and stunt coordinators. They previously worked with Reeves as stunt doubles on \"The Matrix\" trilogy.\n\nStahelski and Leitch's approach to action scenes drew upon their admiration for anime and martial arts films. The film used fight choreographers and gun fu techniques from Hong Kong action cinema. The film also pays homage to works such as John Woo's \"The Killer\", Jean-Pierre Melville's \"Le Cercle Rouge\" and \"Le Samouraï\", John Boorman's \"Point Blank\", and the spaghetti western films. The film was met with positive reviews, with critics calling it one of Reeves' best performances and one of the best action films of 2014. It grossed $88 million worldwide against a production budget of $20 million. A sequel, \"\", was released in February 2017, and another sequel \"\" is currently filming with a targeted release of May 2019.\n\nAfter John Wick loses his wife, Helen, to a terminal illness, he receives a beagle puppy named Daisy to help him cope with his grief. He connects with the puppy and they spend their day driving around in his vintage 1969 Ford Mustang Mach 1. At a gas station, he encounters a trio of Russian gangsters whose leader, Iosef Tarasov, insists on buying his car, but John refuses to sell it. The mobsters follow John to his home that night, knock him unconscious, steal his car, and kill Daisy.\n\nIosef takes the Mustang to a chop shop run by Aurelio to have the VIN changed. Aurelio recognizes the car and, upon learning that Iosef stole it from John, punches him before throwing him out of his shop. John visits Aurelio, who tells him Iosef is the son of Viggo Tarasov, the head of the Russian crime syndicate in New York City. Viggo, informed by Aurelio of Iosef's actions, beats and berates Iosef, explaining to him that John Wick was his best assassin, nicknamed \"Baba Yaga\". When John wanted to retire and marry Helen, Viggo gave him an \"impossible task\", implied to involve multiple assassinations. John succeeded, and his efforts were key in establishing the Tarasov syndicate.\n\nViggo tries to talk John out of seeking retribution, but John silently refuses. Viggo then sends a twelve-man hit squad to John's house, but John kills them all and has the bodies professionally removed. An unsurprised Viggo places a $2-million bounty on John's head and personally offers the contract to John's mentor, Marcus. John seeks refuge at the Continental Hotel, which caters exclusively to the criminal underworld and permits no \"business\" on its premises. Viggo doubles the bounty for those willing to break the rules to kill John at the Continental.\n\nJohn learns from Winston, the Continental's owner, that Viggo has Iosef protected at his nightclub, the Red Circle. John enters the Red Circle and kills his way to Iosef, but Viggo's henchman Kirill waylays John, allowing Iosef to escape. John retreats to the Continental to patch up his injuries. Ms. Perkins, an assassin and former acquaintance, sneaks into John's room to kill him, but Marcus alerts John, allowing him to subdue Perkins. He forces Perkins to reveal the location of Viggo's front, knocks her unconscious and leaves her with fellow assassin Harry to await punishment. However, Perkins frees herself and kills Harry.\n\nJohn travels to the Little Russia church which serves as Viggo's front and destroys Viggo's cache of money and blackmail material. When Viggo and his team arrive, John ambushes them, but he is subdued and captured. Viggo taunts John for thinking he could leave his old life behind. Before John can be killed, Marcus intervenes again, allowing John to free himself, kill Kirill, and accost Viggo, who reveals Iosef's location. John then travels to Iosef's safe house and kills him.\n\nPerkins learns that John and Marcus have been in contact and tells Viggo, who has Marcus beaten for information before executing him in his home. Viggo calls John to report this, planning to have Perkins ambush him. Perkins, however, is called to a meeting with Winston, who has her executed for breaking the Continental's rules.\n\nWinston calls John to inform him that Viggo is planning to escape by helicopter. John races to the harbor helipad, where he kills Viggo's remaining henchmen before engaging Viggo in a fistfight on the dock. Viggo pulls a knife, but John allows himself to be stabbed, surprising Viggo. John then disarms and fatally wounds Viggo. Wounded himself, John stops at a waterfront animal clinic to treat his wound and takes with him a pit bull puppy which was scheduled to be euthanized. John and the dog walk home along the boardwalk where he had his last date with Helen.\n\n\nThe cast also includes: David Patrick Kelly as a \"cleaner\" named Charlie; Randall Duk Kim as an underworld doctor; Lance Reddick as Charon, a talented concierge at The Continental Hotel; Munro M. Bonnell as a Russian Orthodox priest who protects the vault where Viggo stores his valuables; Omer Barnea as Gregori and Toby Leonard Moore as Victor, Iosef's friends and bodyguards; Daniel Bernhardt as Kirill, Viggo's henchman; Bridget Regan as Addy, Keith Jardine as Kuzma; Tait Fletcher as Nicholai; Thomas Sadoski as Jimmy; Clarke Peters as Harry; Kevin Nash as a bouncer named Francis at the Red Circle nightclub; Gameela Wright as a delivery woman; Vladislav Koulikov as Pavel; Pat Squire as an elderly woman; Vladimir Troitsky as a team leader; and Scott Tixier (uncredited) as a violinist.\n\nThe premise for \"John Wick\" was conceived by screenwriter Derek Kolstad who began work on a treatment about a retired contract killer coming out to seek vengeance, entitled \"Scorn\". After one month of work, he had completed the first draft of the screenplay, and once he had addressed several issues he pitched the script to various clients, garnering at least three offers. Kolstad was influenced by film-noir classics and the themes of revenge and the antihero and what might play out if the most evil man found redemption only to have it taken away. The works of Alistair MacLean and Stephen King influenced Kolstad in creating the story in terms of world-building and characterisation, respectively.\n\nOn December 3, 2012, it was announced that Thunder Road Pictures had bought the script with discretionary funds, with Kolstad agreeing due to plans to make the film straight away. When Basil Iwanyk, head of Thunder Road Pictures, had first read Kolstad's original screenplay, he was immediately drawn to the main character of Wick. He also admired the emotional weight and action theme of the piece. After Thunder Road had optioned the script, Kolstad spent additional months refurbishing the script with them. In the original script, the character of John Wick was written with \"a man in his mid-sixties\" to play the role, given the title character's fabled reputation as a revered and respected assassin. However, Iwanyk was of the belief that this was irrelevant, and rather than casting an older actor looked for a film veteran.\n\nOn May 7, 2013, it was announced that Keanu Reeves had begun negotiations in April to star in the piece. He was later confirmed as the film's male lead, after Iwanyk and Peter Lawson of Thunder Road showed him the script, which he thought to be full of potential. Reeves and Kolstad had worked closely together on further developing the screenplay and the story, with the screenwriter stating that Reeves understood how even tiny details affect the story's strength. The title of the film was later changed from \"Scorn\" as, according to Kolstad, \"Reeves kept telling everyone that he was making a film called 'John Wick, and the producers agreed, changing the title.\n\nDuring story discussions, Reeves contacted Chad Stahelski and David Leitch, who he originally met on the set of \"The Matrix\", to see if they were interested in choreographing the action though he hoped they would direct. He thought the project and the worlds it created would appeal to them. The quality of the script and Reeves' enthusiasm convinced Stahelski and Leitch to direct the film. They later presented a thriller version of the story with Wick as an urban legend. With Reeves' support, Stahelski and Leitch pitched the idea to the studio, who hired them to direct, contrary to an initial request of directing the film's second unit. On May 7, 2013, it was announced that Stahelski and Leitch were to direct the film, though it was later ruled by the Directors Guild of America that only Stahelski would be given the director credit. Leitch was credited as a producer.\n\nStahelski acknowledged the challenges in balancing the action with the pace and tone, having done this for individual scenes but never before for a whole movie. He acknowledged that action itself should be a collaborative entity with the story, as opposed to being a separate element. He said they didn't stop the story for an action sequence, but integrated it to provide a deeper feeling of the characters.\n\nIt was remarked by Kolstad, once Reeves, Stahelski and Leitch were officially on board, that from January to September 2013, he was still working on the final drafts of the screenplay, which he described as a \"relentless process ... in order to get everyone's vision in check.\"\n\nOn September 12, 2013, Willem Dafoe was confirmed to have been cast in the role of Marcus. On September 19, 2013, Michael Nyqvist, Alfie Allen, Adrianne Palicki and Dean Winters were confirmed to be a part of the film's supporting cast. On October 14, 2013, Bridget Moynahan had joined the cast in the role of Wick's wife. On October 15, 2013, Jason Isaacs had joined the cast, portraying David. On November 27, 2013, Daniel Bernhardt was confirmed to play Kirill.\n\nPrincipal photography was confirmed to have begun in New York City, with an original shooting schedule from September 25 to December 5, 2013.\nOn October 14, 2013, shooting began in Mill Neck, New York, with the filming scheduled to continue in the greater New York area.\n\nOn August 26, 2013, Lionsgate announced that they were looking for \"a high-end glass house with a water view\" that was located in Nassau County where the 'Intruders' sequence was ultimately filmed. Both interiors and exteriors of the house were used. A couple additional scenes were shot in Long Island. On October 6, 2013, filming occurred next door to the Flatiron School, on 11 Broadway. The production moved to Brooklyn on October 24, with filming occurring on 6th Avenue between Union and Carroll Street, President Street between 6th and 7th Avenues and Carroll Street between 6th and 7th Avenues. Additional filming later occurred at the St. Francis Xavier Church on 6th Avenue. On October 28, 2013, a scene was shot at CITGO gas station, 501 N. Highland Ave in Upper Nyack, whilst also shooting footage at Route 9W and Christian Herald Road.\n\nOn November 1, 2013, filming took place in lower Manhattan at 1 Wall Street Court, used for the exterior of the Continental Hotel. On November 12, 2013, some scenes were shot on 25 Broadway, and in downtown Manhattan on Beaver Street by Broad Street. Filming also took place at W 43rd Street and 8th Avenue, on November 13, in Manhattan, and club scenes for \"John Wick\" have been filmed on W 27 Street, with November 15 being the last night schedule at the location. On November 21, 2013, it was announced that a bath house scene was scheduled to be filmed on November 24, December 4 and 5. Other shooting locations included Tribeca, on November 20, in which a chase scene was filmed on Church Street. It was also reported, on November 27, that filming had been set up on E 83rd and 3rd Street on the Upper East Side.\n\nOn December 2, 2013, a three-week Upper East Side shoot was scheduled until December 22, with Keanu Reeves and Willem Dafoe filming several scenes. Filming continued to shoot in Tribeca from December 3 to 5, with the notification placed on Church and Franklin. After the Tribeca shoot, the crew moved to Long Island on December 6 to film a funeral scene. Additional filming was reported on December 13 for Chambers Street, Worth Street and Lafayette Street. On December 19, Reeves was filming in the Williamsburg neighborhood of Brooklyn.\n\nPrincipal photography was confirmed to have ended on December 20, 2013, with post-production beginning on January 10, 2014.\n\nAccording to directors commentary, their first cut of the movie was 2 hours and 20 minutes long. They didn't reveal much about approximately 39 minutes of footage that was left out of the movie but they did mention that the climactic fight between John and Viggo was pared down after they acknowledged that Viggo shouldn't pose a big physical threat to Wick. David Leitch said many visually amazing shots were cut which were \"just Keanu walking in cool environments.\"\n\nThe film was shot digitally with Arri Alexa XT in a distributed aspect ratio of .\nCinematographer Jonathan Sela chose to work with Arri Alexa XT cameras due to discussions regarding the look of the film. He had pushed for a mix of Arricam and Alexa for a blend of film and digital but the cost of both packages and film was unreasonable so they used ALEXA exclusively. Sela had familiarity with the camera from previous commercial work.\n\nSela spoke of the idea that Stahelski, Leitch and himself wished to achieve a visual contrast between John Wick's normal life and the other of which he's drawn back into the underworld of assassins. \"We wanted the first look to be soft and clean, and the second to be grittier, darker and sharper.\" They shot with a single camera so Sela used lenses and camera techniques to achieve the contrasting visuals. He describes the first section of the film as being far more static by stating that, \"the camera never stops moving\".\nFor \"John Wick\" he had decided on using both anamorphic and spherical lenses, to which he combined a set of Hawk V-Lite Vintage '74 anamorphics with that of Cooke S4 sphericals. The initial plan was to use the anamorphic and spherical lenses in the first and second parts, respectively, to create the visual contrast; however, he decided against such a course of action as he felt camerawork alone sufficiently separated the worlds, allowing them to use anamorphics for day shoots and sphericals at night. Sela praised Hawk's Vintage '74 as \"beautiful\", though they flare considerably, which would have become overbearing during night-time shooting. He felt their daytime use gave a \"hazy look [... which seemed ...] more cinematic\".\n\nAccording to Sela, on-board ARRIRAW recording with the ALEXA XT cameras made a considerable difference with camerawork, stating, \"Having the ALEXA XT with in-camera ARRIRAW is like going to back to an ARRICAM or an ARRIFLEX 435, which is amazing.\" There was a considerable amount of handheld camera work on the second section and usage of the ALEXA M allowed filming through windows and tight spaces, particularly for the car scenes.\nSela was recording ARRIRAW and used the whole sensor area of ALEXA's 4:3 for the anamorphic scenes, which allowed for the maximisation of the image quality for a 4K cinema release. The extra sensor area provided valuable data for later image processing.\n\nCostume designer Luca Mosca explained that Wick had to possess a piece of attire that had to be worn throughout almost the entire production of the film. Mosca's team tailored it to be \"sleek and timeless\" for the film's world. Due to the nature of the world Stahelski and Leitch created, Mosca had to create a statement for every character based on their costume.\nReeves gave praise for the costume designer and highlighted Mosca's ability to give the pieces of clothing subtle meanings. He described his costume as \"funereal\" and \"priestly\" and stylish without standing out.\nInitially the villains were to be in combat gear, but later they decided against that due to the principle that they have to be placed in suits, with Leitch quoting Mosca, \"It is about men in suits.\"\n\n\"John Wick\" features not two worlds, but instead \"two of everything\", joked production designer Dan Leigh on the contrast of the worlds. Leigh approached the production as a graphic-novel fable, with ethereal textures and unexpected set dressing.\n\nJames Bolt and Martyn Zub were the re-recording mixers. Mark Stoeckinger was the supervising sound editor.\n\nProduction sound mixer Danny Michael had used Sound Devices' 788T-SSD digital recorder and CL-WiFi as sound devices, supplemented with a Lectrosonics VRT-Venue System, Lectrosonics radio mics, Schoeps CMC-6U and CMIT-5U microphones, a Cooper Sound 208 mixer, Blackmagic dual seven-inch monitors and a Denecke Dcode GR-1 as the main time clock. The action-oriented film required many sound effects and \"file-based workflow\".\n\nFor Michael, the 788T-SSD's ability to swap removable storage was an advantage, supplying CompactFlash (CF) to the post-production company Light Iron, in order for them to process the raw unedited footage on set. Michael stated he would hand-off his sound at every camera change to a person in arm's reach who assembled it with the digital footage on the spot.\n\nJake Braver was the overall visual-effects supervisor and visual-effects company Spin VFX worked on most of the visual effects.\n\nThe musical score to \"John Wick\" was composed by Tyler Bates and Joel J. Richard, with on-screen violin music performed by Scott Tixier. The film features a few pieces of additional music such as Marilyn Manson's \"Killing Strangers\" and T-Bo and Bengie B's \"Get Money\". The original soundtrack album, \"\", was released digitally on October 21, 2014 and received a physical format release on October 27 by Varese Sarabande Records. In addition to Bates and Richard's score, the album features music by artists such as Ciscandra Nostalghia, The Candy Shop Boys, and M86 & Susie Q. Le Castle Vania provided additional music for the score.\n\nDirector Chad Stahelski said influences on \"John Wick\" included \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\" (1966), \"Point Blank\" (1967), \"Le Cercle Rouge\" (1970), and \"The Killer\" (1989).\n\nStahelski considered the untold backstory in \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\" and wanted to leave John Wick's to the audience's imagination. He also said that they repeatedly watched \"Point Blank\" and made homages to it in \"John Wick\". Park Chan-wook's \"The Vengeance Trilogy\" (2002–2005) and Lee Jeong-beom's \"The Man from Nowhere\" (2010) influenced the film due to their \"minimalist composition and graphic nature.\"\n\nScreenwriter Derek Kolstad said that he was hugely influenced by Alistair MacLean for world-building and Stephen King for characterisation, noting that King surprised readers with what a protagonist could be driven to.\nStahelski and Leitch also drew inspiration from the visual stylings of the 1960s and 1970s and works of Sergio Leone, Akira Kurosawa, Steve McQueen, Lee Marvin, William Friedkin and Sam Peckinpah. Stahelski stated liking the Kurosawa and spaghetti western sensibility in the composition, and that noir film had less influence on them.\n\nThe official website for \"John Wick\" debuted on August 15, 2014 introducing a marketing campaign and interactive layout to promote the film. The website streamed an audio file and contained interactive games such as \"The Red Circle Club\" and \"Revenge Ride\". Lionsgate provided information on the cast and crew along with a gallery and video section.\nThe first images debuted on August 21, 2014 featuring Reeves' as Wick. With the release Liongate confirmed the film being set for a \"sudden release\" on October 24, 2014.\nOn September 10, 2014, the teaser poster was released with the confirmation date of the expected teaser trailer.\nThe teaser trailer for \"John Wick\" debuted September 12, 2014. The theatrical release poster and the final theatrical trailer were both released on September 30, 2014, by Stahelski and Leitch on an 'Ask me anything' Reddit session.\n\nLionsgate had provided Collider and Moviepilot, on October 2, 2014, with a prize pack to give away to various readers, which included \"Assassin's Creed Unity\", a $25 Fandango gift card, a Lionsgate DVD 3-pack with \"Dredd\", \"Gamer\", and \"Rambo\", and a John Wick poster and T-shirt. On October 6, 2014, the official website for \"John Wick\" had been updated to include three trailers, photographs with John's story, individual cast photos, and mini-biographies. The IMAX TV spot trailer for \"John Wick\" debuted October 6, 2014, featuring new footage of the film. Carl F. Bucherer was the official partner of the \"John Wick\" premiere in New York City on October 13, 2014. Keanu Reeves sported a Manero AutoDate with a light dial, Willem Dafoe wore a Manero AutoDate in classic black, and Daniel Bernhardt with a Patravi ChronoGrade. An IMAX featurette was released on October 22, 2014 with clips relating to the film accompanied by statements by Reeves, Stahelski, and Leitch.\n\nOn October 16, 2014, \"John Wick\" was featured on the week's issue of \"Entertainment Weekly\".\n\nAs part of a cross-promotional deal with Overkill Software, Lionsgate and Thunder Road Pictures, on October 21, 2014, John Wick was added as a playable character in the online game \"Payday 2\". Other elements from the film were included, such as Wick's signature weapons and skill tree that allowed for dual-wielding of certain firearms. Fandango offered people who purchased tickets online at select theaters a free download of \"Payday 2\" through Steam. \"Variety\" described Liongate's deal as a \"pretty imaginative marketing move\". Danielle DePalma, Lionsgate's EVP of digital marketing, stated, \"We're big fans of \"Payday 2\" and the team at Starbreeze, and we're thrilled to kick off our partnership with such a cool movie\". Bo Andersson Klint, Starbreeze CEO, stated, \"We've finally got a real hitman on our team. Being able to play as John Wick in \"Payday 2\" ahead of the movie's release is a great reward for our loyal \"Payday 2\" community.\"\n\n\"John Wick\" premiered at the Regal Union Square Theatre, Stadium 14 on October 13, 2014 in New York City. It had an earlier screening at the Austin Fantastic Fest on September 19, where it opened the official sidebar section, Special Gala Screening, to an astounding reception. It opened in Los Angeles at the ArcLight Hollywood on October 22, 2014. \"John Wick\" had its television premiere on the USA channel on March 12, 2017.\n\nPrior to \"John Wick\"'s public release, an advance screening of the film was shown on October 9, 2014 at Regal Oakwood in Hollywood, Florida. A screening was shown in advance at the UA Court Street in Brooklyn, New York on October 14. Glendale Designs sponsored a private screening on October 16, 2014 at Harkins Arrowhead in Peoria, Arizona. BackstageOL and Lionsgate hosted an advance screening on October 21, 2014 at Edwards Greenway Grand Palace Stadium in Houston, Texas and at the Santikos Embassy 14 in San Antonio, Texas. Additionally, Lionsgate had announced 40 additional advanced screenings at selected theatres in the United States October 21 and 22, as part of a national promotional campaign. Entertainment One Films held advance screenings in Toronto, Ottawa, Halifax, Calgary, Edmonton, Victoria and Vancouver between October 20 and 23.\n\n\"John Wick\" began a wide theatrical release in the United States on October 24, 2014, expanding in successive weeks to France, Australia and Netherlands, and premiered in the United Kingdom on February 2, 2015 after expanding throughout Europe.\n\nOn May 22, 2013, Liongate had sold more than $250 million in territorial rights to nine titles at the Cannes Film Festival, including \"John Wick\". Studio Canal will distribute the piece throughout Germany, Metropolitan Filmexport acquired the French distribution rights to \"John Wick\" from Lionsgate, Acme Film acquired the distribution rights throughout the Baltic region, Monolith Films acquired the film rights in Poland, Imagem had acquired the Latin American distribution rights, Orange Sky Golden Harvest obtained the film rights in Taiwan and Hong Kong, and Media Pro acquired the rights in the regions of Czech, Romania, Hungary, and Bulgaria. Entertainment One Films picked up the Canadian distribution rights. On June 10, 2014, Belga Films had acquired the rights to distribute the film within the Benelux region. On July 2, 2014, MK2 Pictures were confirmed to have acquired the Italian distribution rights to \"John Wick\". On May 8, 2014, the Huayi Brothers picked up the Chinese distribution rights to \"John Wick\", being one of only four films from the United States that were picked up, with a planned 2015 limited theatrical release. On August 11, 2014, Lions Gate Entertainment acquired from Thunder Road Pictures the distribution rights to \"John Wick\" in the United States, with a planned 2014 limited theatrical release, and in October, Summit Entertainment, a Lionsgate company, distributed the film in the United States On October 31, 2014, it was announced that Warner Bros. Pictures would be distributing the film within the United Kingdom. It was later announced that the release date in the United Kingdom was moved back from the first weekend of 2015 to April 10, 2015.\n\nOn October 2, 2014, Summit Entertainment announced that \"John Wick\" would be released in IMAX. Phil Groves, Senior Vice President of IMAX Corp and Executive Vice President of Global Distribution, IMAX Entertainment, stated, \"\"John Wick\" is a fun action romp, complete with a tremendously entertaining performance by Keanu Reeves that is perfect for IMAX fans.\" further adding, \"There's no better place for audiences to experience the film's stylized storytelling than in IMAX theatres.\"\n\n\"John Wick\" earned $14.4 million from 2,589 locations on its opening weekend, compared to the $7–8 million most analysts projected the film would make. By the end of its theatrical run, \"John Wick\" grossed $45.7 million in North America and $43 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $88.7 million, against a production budget of $20 million.\n\nThe film had a wide release in the United States and Canada in selected theatres on October 24. The film earned $5.45 million on its opening day, including $875,000 from Thursday night previews, which was the second-highest opening of that weekend, at an average of $5,465 per theater. The film grossed $2.5 million from 347 IMAX locations that weekend, which represented 17.7 percent of the film's overall gross for its opening weekend. The audience was 60% male and 77% were older than 25.\n\nOutside North America, the film took $1.4 million during its international opening weekend. The film's highest-grossing debuts were in France, Australia, Thailand, Mexico, and the United Arab Emirates. On its second week, it added $6.7 million from 33 territories. The film went number one in France ($1.2 million) from 300 screens, number three in Australia ($961,000) from 177 screens, and number ten in the Middle East ($1 million) from a total of 80 screens.\n\n\"John Wick\" enjoyed a mostly positive reception upon release, attaining praise for the action sequences, direction, visual style, pacing and the performances of the cast, especially Keanu Reeves as John Wick. The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a score of 86% based on 202 reviews, and an average rating of 7.2/10. Its critical consensus reads, \"Stylish, thrilling, and giddily kinetic, \"John Wick\" serves as a satisfying return to action for Keanu Reeves – and what looks like it could be the first of a franchise.\" Metacritic, another review aggregator, assigned the film a weighted average score of 68 out of 100, based on 40 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". CinemaScore reported that audiences gave the film a \"B\" grade, on an A+ to F scale.\n\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" stated, \"\"John Wick\" is the kind of fired-up, ferocious B-movie fun some of us can't get enough of\" and noted the \"juicy performances\" from Dafoe, Leguizamo, and McShane. Richard Corliss of \"Time\" magazine wrote, \"Action movies are about movement, and \"John Wick\" pursues that goal with remorseless verve.\" Ignatiy Vishnevetsky of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the film an \"B+\" rating, stating, \"An underworld fantasy that grafts crisp action on to Rian Johnson-esque world-building, producing one of the more fully realized shoot-'em-up flicks in recent memory.\" He continued by praising Kolstad's script which \"distinguishes itself by carefully defining the boundaries of its universe\". Chris Nashawaty of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film an \"A−\" rating and called Kolstad's screenplay, \"a marvelously rich and stylish feat of pulpy world-building.\"\n\nJustin Lowe of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" wrote, \"After a marked absence from the genre, Reeves resoundingly returns with an effortless, kinetic style that positions the film extremely well for any potential follow-ups.\" Peter Debruge of \"Variety\" spoke highly of the film, \"Back in action-hero mode, Keanu Reeves joins forces with his \"Matrix\" stunt double to deliver a slick and satisfying revenge thriller\" and noted \"what a thrill well-choreographed action can be when we're actually able to make out what's happening\". Stephanie Zacharek of \"The Village Voice\" said that, \"Reeves is wonderful here, a marvel of physicality and stern determination – he moves with the grace of an old-school swashbuckler.\" Bilge Ebiri of \"Vulture\" commented, \"It's a beautiful coffee-table action movie.\"\n\nJeannette Catsoulis wrote, in her review for \"The New York Times\", \"Harboring few ambitions beyond knock-your-socks-off action sequences, this crafty revenge thriller delivers with so much style – and even some wit – that the lack of substance takes longer than it should to become problematic.\" Catsoulis praised Dafoe and Leguizamo for \"bringing real subtlety to an all-too-brief scene\" and Nyqvist as \"marvellous\", as well as Stahelski's direction and Sela's cinematography. Forrest Wickman of \"Slate\" noted, \"\"John Wick\" offers a slow burn, sizzling in a manner true to its hero's surname.\" Jordan Hoffman of \"The Guardian\" scored the film four out of five stars, writing, \"A slick, propulsive and ridiculous crime picture that strides like an automatic machine gun.\"\n\nHowever, Peter Bradshaw, also reviewing for \"The Guardian\", gave the film 2 out of 5 stars and stated \"Reeves's semi-deliberate zonked deadpan style only really works in juxtaposition with funny dialogue – and this is a pretty humourless and violent film, which grinds on and on with more and more gleaming black SUVs getting trashed.\" Ealasaid Haas of \"San Jose Mercury News\" described \"John Wick\" as a \"disappointingly standard revenge movie.\" John Semley of \"The Globe and Mail\" called the title \"the new name in crummy action cinema,\" giving it one-half out of 4 stars.\n\nOn August 7, 2015, Lionsgate and Starbreeze Studios announced a partnership to develop a first-person shooter virtual reality game based on the film for the HTC Vive/Steam VR. Development was to be headed by Grab Games, with Starbreeze set to publish. WEVR was to develop an introductory experience for the game. The game was released on February 9, 2017, with the name \"John Wick Chronicles\". and have a standalone narrative based on the Continental Hotel. Additionally, John Wick content – a free \"Character Pack\" and a chargeable \"Weapons Pack\" – was released for the \"Payday 2\" games on October 20, 2016, as cross-promotion.\n\nThe \"Reaper\" skin in is a reference to John Wick.\n\nA sequel was released on February 10, 2017, and at the 2016 CinemaCon, Reeves hinted that more sequels had been planned. Following the release of \"John Wick: Chapter 2\" it was reported that a third film is currently in development with a target release of May 17, 2019.\n\nIn June 2017, it was reported that a prequel series titled \"The Continental\" is in active development. The series will focus on the hotel chain that acts as a neutral ground for assassins, as opposed to the character John Wick.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49610180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49610180", "title": "List of Philippine Wrestling Revolution event results", "text": "List of Philippine Wrestling Revolution event results\n\nThis is a list of results in events produced by Philippine Wrestling Revolution (PWR), an independent professional wrestling promotion in the Philippines.\n\nPWR was founded in 2013 by a group of Filipinos who want to start their own wrestling company. Its first official show, Renaissance, took place in September 2014. Many of PWR's events have been staged in Makati City venues, but it has since been held in Manila, Mandaluyong City, Parañaque City, Pasig City, and Quezon City.\n\nIt has also booked house shows in Quezon province, in Batanes, and the Asia Pop Comic Convention in 2016 and 2017.\n\n\"Renaissance\" was PWR's inaugural event, held at the Makati Square Arena in Makati City on September 27, 2014.\n\nThis card was aired by TV5 in March 2015.\n\nThe first \"Vendetta\" event featured two matches that determined the competitors for the inaugural PWR Championship at \"Wrevolution X\".\n\n\"Wrevolution X\" is PWR's flagship event every May, akin to WWE's WrestleMania. The inaugural PWR Champion was crowned during this event.\n\n\"PWR Live\" events take place between major PWR events. This first edition featured the start of a tournament for the inaugural Philippine Hybrid X (PHX) Championship, which will be crowned at next month's \"Renaissance\".\n\nVideos of the matches from this event were posted by Rappler the following day.\n\nDuring the pre-show, Kanto Terror hosted a drinking contest, with 2 people from the audience as his challengers; he lost.\n\nThe PHX Championship tournament culminated during this event. This would be the last PWR show held at the Makati Square Arena.\n\nBefore the main event, comedian Stanley Chi hosted a \"Suplado Show\" in-ring segment, with Kanto Terror, then Mark D. Manalo and PWR General Manager Mr. Sy.\n\nThis is the first PWR show at the iAcademy Auditorium.\n\nThe show started with Rederick Mahaba hosting a \"Mahabang Usapan\" in-ring segment, with The Royal Flush as guests.\n\nThe Path of Gold trophy was first awarded at this event. Its holder earns the right to challenge either the PWR champion or the PHX champion at any time within the next 12 months. It would later become a regular fixture in Terminus events.\n\nDuring the pre-show, comedian Stanley Chi hosted a \"Suplado Show\" in-ring segment, with Mr. Sy and The Network as guests.\n\nPath of Gold match - Order of entry and elimination\n\nThe event featured the first-ever intergender match in PWR history, with Peter Versoza taking on Crystal.\n\nThis was PWR's first event in the city of Manila.\n\nThis was PWR's first event in Parañaque City.\n\n\"The Senyorito\" Jake de Leon cashed in his Path of Gold Trophy for a shot at the PWR Championship at this event.\n\nPHX Gauntlet Match - Order of entry and elimination\n\nThis was PWR's first event in Mandaluyong City.\n\nDuring the show, Rederick Mahaba hosted a \"Mahabang Usapan\" in-ring segment, with PWR Champion Jake de Leon, Ralph Imabayashi, John Sebastian, PHX Champion Main Maxx, and Peter Versoza as guests.\n\nCrystal and Scarlett were scheduled to have a contract signing for a match at Renaissance, but Scarlett announced her retirement from wrestling days before PWR Live.\n\nThis was PWR's first event in Pasig City.\n\nDuring the event, The Network leader James \"Idol\" Martinez delivered a \"State of the Network Address\".\n\nThis was PWR's first show in Quezon City.\n\nPWR was supposed to hold its annual Terminus show in December 2016, but had to cancel it because of \"directional developments\" within the company.\n\nMaking his first appearance for PWR, former NWA Canadian Junior Heavyweight Champion Billy Suede competed at the pre-show.\n\nPath of Gold match - Order of entry and elimination\n\nA tournament to crown the inaugural PWR Tag Team Champions kicked off at this event. The winners in each of the 3 qualifying matches will face off at \"Wrevolution X\".\n\nThe inaugural PWR Tag Team Champions were crowned at this event. \n\nChris Panzer also cashed in his Path of Gold Trophy for a shot at the PWR Championship.\n\nInternational wrestler Koto Hiro from Japan made his first appearance for PWR at this event.\n\nRederick Mahaba hosted a \"Mahabang Usapan\" in-ring segment, with Ralph Imabayashi as guest. Mr. Sy, Evan Carleaux and Main Maxx served as the commentary team.\n\nChino Guinto relinquished the PHX Championship at this event due to a knee injury, which would take him out of in-ring action for 8 to 10 months.\n\nAlso, after The Apocalypse's victory in the All Out War Match, the PWR Board awarded him with the PWR All Out War Championship in recognition of his success in All Out War matches.\n\nThis was PWR's first show at the Power Mac Center Spotlight in Makati City.\n\nIn the opening segment, John Sebastian revealed that he became a co-owner of PWR after buying 50% of the company. He then challenged Mr. Sy to a 5-on-5 elimination match at \"Vendetta\". If Mr. Sy's team loses, he would be fired as PWR General Manager.\n\nThe event featured a \"rap battle\" between Vintendo and McKata at the pre-show.\n\n\"Ubusan ng Lahi\" match - Order of elimination\nLast man standing: Ralph Imabayashi\n\nThe show started with a \"Mahabang Usapan\" segment featuring Team Sebastian.\n\nIt also featured the start of a four-team tournament to determine who will be the next challengers to the PWR Tag Team Championship. Meanwhile, PHX Champion Mike Madrigal issued an open challenge for his title.\n\nThe show started with a \"Championship Celebration of Love and Respect\" by Rederick Mahaba for the new PWR Champion, Ralph Imabayashi. It was interrupted by Miguel Rosales.\n\nBefore the match between The Network and the team of McKata and Brad Cruz, John Sebastian officiated a rap battle between James \"Idol\" Martinez and McKata, which Martinez won.\n\nAt the end of the tournament to determine the #1 contenders to the PWR Tag Team Championship, John Sebastian and Crystal inserted themselves into the title match at \"Path of Gold\", making it a triple threat match.\n\nAfter the first match on the main card, Rederick Mahaba took to the mic in an in-ring segment to announce that he would enter #2 at the Path of Gold match.\n\nPath of Gold match - Order of entry and elimination\n"}
{"id": "35635713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35635713", "title": "List of professional wrestling conventions", "text": "List of professional wrestling conventions\n\nThis is a list of professional wrestling conventions.\n\nA professional wrestling fan convention typically features a professional wrestling promotion's talent and alumni autograph signings, interviews, fan activities, memorabilia displays, meet-and-greets, and matches. One of the oldest professional wrestling fan convention is Cauliflower Alley Club established in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "14906049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14906049", "title": "List of sporting events in Taiwan", "text": "List of sporting events in Taiwan\n\nThis is a list of international sporting events in Taiwan:\n"}
{"id": "28796296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28796296", "title": "MENA ICT Forum", "text": "MENA ICT Forum\n\nMENA ICT Forum is the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region's biennial information and communication technology (ICT) industry event, held in Jordan under the patronage of King Abdullah II.\n\nIt was extended from the \"ordan ICT Forum held in 2002, 2004, and 2006. MENA ICT Forum showcases the region’s ICT activities and addresses industry trends, opportunities, and future outlook.\n\nFeatured keynote speakers included King Abdullah II, Intel CEO Craig Barrett, Cisco chairman John Chambers, 3Com CEO Edgar Masri, and Sun Microsystems chief researcher John Gage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2694266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2694266", "title": "MUTEK", "text": "MUTEK\n\nMUTEK is a Montreal-based festival dedicated to the promotion of electronic music and the digital arts. Its central platform is an annual five-day event in Montreal that takes place in late August. Alongside the Montreal edition, MUTEK also hosts international versions of its festival.\n\nMutek was founded in 2000 by Alain Mongeau.\n\nA Mexican edition of MUTEK has taken place in Mexico City since 2003. Annual South American single and/or multi-day events have taken place in Argentina and Chile since 2002 and 2004 respectively. Showcases have occurred in Brazil and Colombia as well.\n\nIn 2005 MUTEK was among the first Western cultural organizations to send a delegation of electronic artists to China.\n\nIn 2014, MUTEK paired with digital arts festival Elektra for the EM15 festival in Montreal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4931917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931917", "title": "Macerata Opera", "text": "Macerata Opera\n\nThe Macerata Opera is the name given to the coordinating bodies of the provincial and local government in Macerata, the provincial capital of the Marche region of Italy, which puts on performances of three or four operas each July and August under the name Macerata Opera Festival. From 1992 the Opera Association was founded by the municipality and the Province Association of Macerata to oversee the operations of the Festival. In addition to the main summer activities, the Association organizes many other musical events, ranging from the New Music Festival to the performances of baroque music in a number of historical sites and buildings. The Association also organizes international conferences.\n\nWhile the Macerata Opera has organized the Macerata Opera Festival as a summer opera festival, it actually began in 1921 with a performance of Verdi's \"Aida\" in the 3,000 seat (plus 6,000 standing places) Arena Sferisterio, a huge neoclassical arena erected in the 1820s as a stadium for a form of handball called \"pallone al bracciale\", a sort of game with ball and bangle. After a disastrous second year due to the performance of \"La Gioconda\" being rained out, (and except for a popular concert by Beniamino Gigli in 1929), the Festival did not begin again until 1967. The present layout of the arena allows for the seating of 3,500 to 4,500 people depending upon the specific sets.\n\nBy the late 1960s, the Festival was re-established, presenting mainly popular 19th and early 20th Century Italian opera, most of which were Macerata premieres. Within ten years, the repertory was gradually broadened to include more modern and foreign works but, for financial reasons, the emphasis was on the bigger crowd-pleasers with as many big name international opera singers as possible. In addition, many Regietheater-style productions were to be found such as film director Ken Russell's \"Madama Butterfly\" set in a brothel and a Franco Zeffirelli \"Carmen\" set in a motor cycle gang populated New York city.\n\nWith the decline in international singer participation as the 1990s progressed, the last decade has seen a return to popular Italian operas given spectacular productions. \n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, the soprano Katia Ricciarelli was Artistic Director. But 2006 saw changes at the Sferisterio with the artistic direction being taken over by Pier Luigi Pizzi and a summer festival concept created. A common theme evolved in the selection of operas to be performed and, at the same time, the reconstruction of the stage was undertaken. The 2006 season acknowledged the 250th anniversary of Mozart's birth, with a production of \"The Magic Flute\". Performances were moved to 9pm to take to allow the audience to enjoy the sunset. Seminars, discussions, and readings of literary works were added.\n\nVenues include Teatro Lauro Rossi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133473", "title": "Matronalia", "text": "Matronalia\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the Matronalia (or Matronales Feriae) was a festival celebrating Juno Lucina, the goddess of childbirth (\"Juno who brings children into the light\"), and of motherhood (\"mater\" is \"mother\" in Latin) and women in general. In the original Roman calendar traditionally thought to have been established by Romulus, it was the first day of the year. As the first day of March (\"Martius\"), the month of Mars, it was also the \"Feriae Martis\".\n\nThe date of the festival was associated with the dedication of a temple to Juno Lucina on the Esquiline Hill circa 268 BCE, and possibly also a commemoration of the peace between the Romans and the Sabines. On the day, women would participate in rituals at the temple, although the details have not been preserved other than the observation that they wore their hair loose (when Roman decorum otherwise required them to wear it up), and were not allowed to wear belts or to knot their clothing in any place.\n\nAt home, women received gifts from their husbands and daughters, and Roman husbands were expected to offer prayers for their wives. Women were also expected to prepare a meal for the household slaves (who were given the day off work), as Roman men did at the Saturnalia.\n"}
{"id": "16628548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16628548", "title": "Music Mountain Summer Chamber Music Festival", "text": "Music Mountain Summer Chamber Music Festival\n\nMusic Mountain Summer Chamber Music Festival, located on Music Mountain Road in Falls Village, Connecticut, is America's oldest continuing summer chamber music festival. Founded in 1930, it is currently in its 89th season. \n\nMusic Mountain's mission is to promote the teaching and performance of the string quartet literature.\n\nMusic Mountain was founded in 1930 by the violinist Jacques Gordon as the permanent home for the Gordon String Quartet. Music Mountain's mission is the teaching and performance of the string quartet literature. It is known for regularly programming world-famed artists. Music Mountain also offers a variety of teaching programs each season. Music Mountain's educational and artistic activities were overseen from 1975 until 2017 by Nicholas Gordon, son of founder Jacques Gordon. In 2016, Oskar Espina-Ruiz, clarinetist, was named Artistic Director. Board member Ann M. McKinney was elected Interim President upon Nick Gordon's death in October, 2017.\n\nMusic Mountain concerts take place in Gordon Hall, an acoustically perfect chamber music hall. Designed to be the analogue of the violin, the beaming in the ceiling replicates the bass bar and sound post of the violin, the French doors mimic the f holes in the belly of the fiddle. The shape of Gordon Hall is similar to that of a violin, being long and narrow. The chamber itself is completely surrounded by air with hollow walls, a crawl space under the floor and above the ceiling. There is nothing to impede the ability of the walls, floor and ceiling to vibrate when music is played on the stage. Gordon Hall seats 335 people (400 with additional seating.)\n\nIn addition to Gordon Hall, Music Mountain has 4 houses, each named after an instrument in a string quartet. The houses were prefabricated buildings ordered from Sears Roebuck and built in 1930. The property has been listed in the National Register of Historic Places for the impressive architecture of Gordon Hall, and for the relatively rare example of mail-order houses.\n\nIn the 2016 season, Music Mountain hosted 29 concerts, and additional community events. This included 13 concerts in the Twilight series - including Gilbert and Sullivan, Jazz, Big Band, Broadway, Country, and Folk. The remaining 16 concerts were part of Music Mountain's famous string quartet series, featuring groups such as The St. Petersburg Quartet, The Juilliard String Quartet, The Harlem String Quartet, The Shanghai String Quartet, and many more. Concerts from prior seasons and the current season can be heard on the internet at www.musicmountain.org or by going to InstantEncore.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26098272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26098272", "title": "Nodar Kumaritashvili", "text": "Nodar Kumaritashvili\n\nNodar Kumaritashvili (; ; 25 November 198812 February 2010) was a Georgian one-man luger who suffered a fatal crash during a training run for the 2010 Winter Olympics competition in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada, on the day of the opening ceremony. He became the fourth athlete to die during preparations for a Winter Olympics, and the seventh athlete to die in either a Summer or Winter Olympic Games.\n\nKumaritashvili, who first began to participate in luge when he was 13, came from a family of seasoned lugers: his grandfather had introduced the sport to the Soviet republic of Georgia, and both his father and uncle had competed when they were younger, with his uncle later serving as the head of the Georgian Luge Federation. Kumaritashvili himself began competing in the 2008–09 Luge World Cup. He had also been a student at the Georgian Technical University, where he earned an economics degree in 2009.\n\nKumaritashvili was born on 25 November 1988, in Borjomi, Georgian SSR, present-day Georgia, to David and Dodo Kumaritashvili. He had one sister, Mariam, who was four years younger.\n\nKumaritashvili's family had a long association with luge. His grandfather Aleko Kumaritashvili introduced luge to Georgia after first training for it in East Germany. Aleko helped build a primitive luge run in Bakuriani in 1970; a more finished track, funded by the Soviet authorities, was built in 1973. Kumaritashvili's uncle and coach, Felix Kumaritashvili, served as the head of the Georgian Luge Federation, and his father, David, won a USSR Youth Championship when Georgia was part of the Soviet Union, and was a three-time champion at the Spartakiad, once in two-man bobsled and twice in luge.\n\nKumaritashvili grew up in nearby Bakuriani, which is known for its many ski slopes. He enjoyed several winter sports and started luge when he was 13 years old. While attending the Georgian Technical University, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics in 2009, Kumaritashvili maintained a rigorous training and competition schedule. Though his family endured economic hardship, Kumaritashvili attended as many luge events as he could, often driving for days to reach World Cup events. As a devout member of the Georgian Orthodox Church, he prayed at church before every competition.\n\nDuring his first season of competition, Kumaritashvili finished 55th out of 62 competitors at the 2008–09 Luge World Cup, where he was entered in four races. He finished 28th out of 32 competitors at the 2009–10 Luge World Cup event at Cesana Pariol in January, which was his fifth and last World Cup event. At the time of his death, he was ranked 44th out of 65 competitors in the 2009–10 World Cup season and was regarded as one of the best lugers to come from Georgia.\n\nBy 31 December 2009, the cut-off date for luge qualifications for the Olympics, Kumaritashvili was ranked 38th overall. He qualified for the luge men's singles event at the 2010 Winter Olympics, his Olympic debut, by racing in five World Cup races over two years.\n\nThe venue for the Olympic luge competition, the Whistler Sliding Centre, was designed by Udo Gurgel and his firm, Ingenieurburo Gurgel (IBG) of Leipzig, with the final version produced on 23 October 2004. Using the specified track dimensions for a variety of sled entrance and exit trajectories, IBG calculated the speeds and G forces along each curve of the track. The new curve configurations, rather than the speed, were expected to provide the main challenge. The maximum calculated speed for men's luge was .\n\nIn February 2005, concerns arose regarding the difficulties posed by Cesana Pariol, the track built for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Several serious crashes occurred, prompting calls for physical modifications to that track. The International Luge Federation (FIL) was concerned that similar modifications might be required at the Whistler track and communicated these concerns to the Vancouver Organizing Committee (VANOC) in March 2005. Uncertainty about the track design persisted into 2006 until the scheduled start of track construction, when it was determined that construction would be based on the original design.\n\nAfter construction, during the track homologation (certification) process, the track produced speeds exceeding the design calculations by at least . Following the Olympic test event in February 2009, Josef Fendt, president of FIL, sent a letter to IBG expressing surprise that a record speed of had been reached, concluding that the designer's calculations were incorrect, and stating that the high speed \"makes me worry.\"\nThe letter also said that \"overstepping this limit would be an absolute unreasonable demand for the athletes.\" He asked IBG to respond, in particular with regard to the future Sochi Olympic track. Fendt also informed VANOC that the Whistler track was not supplied as ordered. VANOC, however, concluded that no action was required regarding the Whistler track, since the focus of Fendt's letter to IBG was the new Sochi track.\n\nIn April 2009, IBG explained that the differences between the calculated and actual observed speeds were caused by new sled technology that reduced drag coefficients and ice friction coefficients. Because of the secrecy inherent in sled development, the IBG engineers had difficulty obtaining the latest sled specifications required for their engineering calculations. In the view of the Games organizers, the high speeds and technical challenges could be safely mitigated by imposing additional practice and graduated training requirements on the athletes.\n\nOn 12 February 2010, after 25 previous attempts, 15 of them from the men's start, Kumaritashvili was fatally injured in a crash during his final training run, after losing control in the last turn of the course. He was thrown off his luge and over the sidewall of the track, striking an unprotected steel support pole at the end of the run. He was travelling at the moment of impact.\n\nMedics were at Kumaritashvili's side immediately after the crash. Both cardio-pulmonary and mouth-to-mouth resuscitation were performed. He was airlifted to a Whistler hospital, where he died of his injuries. It was luge's first fatality since 10 December 1975, when an Italian luger had been killed. Kumaritashvili became the fourth athlete to die during preparations for a Winter Olympics, after British luger Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski and Australian skier Ross Milne (both 1964 Innsbruck), and Swiss speed skier Nicolas Bochatay (1992 Albertville). He was also the 16th participating athlete to die during or in practice for a Summer or Winter Olympic Games.\n\nAfter footage of Kumaritashvili's death was televised, there was shock and mourning in Georgia. In response to the accident, the Georgian team announced that it would consider skipping the opening ceremonies or withdrawing from the games entirely, but Nika Rurua, the Georgian minister for sports and culture, later announced the team would stay in Vancouver and \"dedicate their efforts to their fallen comrade\". During the opening ceremony, the seven remaining members of the Georgian Olympic team wore black armbands, bore the Georgian flag with a black ribbon tied to it, and left a space vacant in the procession, as marks of respect. Upon entering BC Place Stadium, the Georgian team was greeted with a standing ovation from the assembled crowd. The team left the stadium immediately after the procession.\n\nLater, during the opening ceremonies, a moment of silence was held to honour Kumaritashvili's memory, and both the Canadian and Olympic flags were lowered to half-staff. Fellow teammate and luger Levan Gureshidze, who was to compete with Kumaritashvili, withdrew after the crash, telling teammates that he \"couldn't go on\", and went home to attend the funeral. The lugers who stayed to compete all wore a black stripe on their helmets in honour of Kumaritashvili.\n\nEarly in the morning of 17 February 2010, Kumaritashvili's body arrived in Tbilisi. It reached his hometown of Bakuriani later that day. Thousands of Georgians attended a funeral feast for him on 19 February, and he was buried on Saturday, 20 February, at the church he had attended. Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili attended the funeral service dressed in a Georgian Olympic uniform.\n\nIn Bakuriani, the street of Kumaritashvili's childhood home was renamed in his honour. Felix Loch of Germany, who won the gold medal in luge at the Vancouver Olympics, had his medal melted down and refashioned into two disks, giving one, etched with an image of Kumaritashvili and the years of his birth and death, to Kumaritashvili's parents. In spite of several donations of money to the Kumaritashvili family, the tragedy was hard on them; twice in the years afterwards Dodo, who continued to fix a meal for Kumaritashvili every day, tried to kill herself, while David dealt with severe health problems resulting in multiple hospital stays.\n\nThe FIL stated that Kumaritashvili's death \"was not caused by an unsafe track\", but as a preventive measure, the walls at the exit of curve16 were raised, and the ice profile was adjusted. Padding was also added to exposed metal beams near the finish line. Olympic officials claimed the changes were \"not for safety reasons but to accommodate the emotional state of the lugers\". In addition, the start of the men's luge was moved to the women's starting point, to reduce speed, while the start of the women's luge was also moved farther down the track.\n\nTraining runs on the track resumed on 13 February, after the changes to the track were finished. Three lugers, including the departed Gureshidze, did not participate in any training runs on that day.\n\nOn 19 April 2010, the FIL published its final report to the International Olympic Committee on Kumaritashvili's death. The report found that the sled used by Kumaritashvili had met all FIL standards. It attributed the accident to \"driving errors starting in curve 15/16 which as an accumulation ended in the impact that resulted in him leaving the track and subsequently hitting a post... This is a tragic result that should not have occurred as a result of an initial driving error\". As the sled hit the wall at the curve-16 exit, it catapulted off the track, causing Kumaritashvili to lose control of it entirely. This was a type of accident not seen before, and therefore \"[w]ith the unknown and unpredictable dynamics of this crash, the calculation and construction of the walls in that section of the track did not serve to prevent the tragedy that happened\". However, the report also determined that during the homologation process and later sessions at the Whistler Sliding Centre, the track was faster than originally calculated. Instead of the expected , the highest speed recorded was . The FIL felt that luge athletes were able to cope with this speed, but \"this was not a direction the FIL would like to see the sport head [in]\". FIL President Fendt wrote to the Sochi 2014 Olympic Organizing Committee that the FIL would homologize the proposed Sochi track only if speeds did not exceed . The FIL also said it was \"determined\" to do what it could to prevent such accidents from occurring again. It would re-examine changes to the sport, sled design, and track technology. FIL Secretary General Svein Romstad summarized: \"What happened to Nodar has been an unforeseeable fatal accident\".\n\nThe British Columbia coroner's office investigated the incident. It was reported to be considering, among other pieces of evidence, written complaints about the safety of the Whistler track by Venezuelan luger Werner Hoegerwho crashed on the track on 13 November 2009, suffering a severe concussionand information suggesting that the track was constructed in such a narrow and steep location, near the Whistler and Blackcomb mountains, for commercial reasons. The track designer, Udo Gurgel, said: \"The track had to be near Whistler, for use after the Olympics. You don't want to ruin an investment so the track is on terrain that's a little steep.\" According to John Furlong, the chief executive of the 2010 Winter Olympics organizing committee, proposals to build the sliding centre on Grouse Mountain near Vancouver were rejected early in the bid phase due to reservations expressed by the international luge, and the bobsled and skeleton, federations.\n\nIn a report dated 16 September 2010, the coroner ruled Kumaritashvili's death an accident brought on by an \"interaction of factors\", including the high speed of the track, its technical difficulty, and the athlete's relative unfamiliarity with the track. He wrote that during Kumaritashvili's training runs, it was reasonable to assume that \"Mr.Kumaritashvili was sliding faster than ever before in his life, and was attempting to go even faster, while simultaneously struggling to learn the intricacies of the track and the dynamics it created\". The coroner accepted that luging would always carry an element of risk and that the best practices known at the time had been followed in the construction of the Whistler track. He also called upon the FIL to require athletes to engage in more mandatory training sessions prior to the Olympic Games and other major competitions.\n\nThe coroner also commented, \"The organizers, regulatory bodies and venue owners must ensure that no effort is spared to anticipate the unforeseeable as far as safety is concerned,\" and to \"err on the side of caution, insisting on more, rather than less.\"\n\nResponding to the report, Kumaritashvili's father said: \"I don't accept the statement about Nodar's lack of experience. He wouldn't have won the right to take part in the Olympics if he lacked experience.\"\n\nIn 2013, Mont Hubbard, a University of California, Davis, mechanical and aerospace professor, issued a report claiming that Kumaritashvili's crash was probably caused by a \"fillet\", a joint between the lower edge of the curve and a vertical wall. Hubbard suggested that the right runner of Kumaritashvili's sled rose up the fillet, launching him into the air. Terry Gudzowsky, the president of ISC/IBG Group, a consortium involved in the construction of the Whistler track, dismissed Hubbard's theory as \"flawed\", stating that the data to replicate the ice surface at the site of the accident in three dimensions do not exist. The luge track built for use at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, was designed with two uphill sections to reduce speeds, and for runs about slower than the Whistler track.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31976138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31976138", "title": "Oak Park Festival Theatre", "text": "Oak Park Festival Theatre\n\nOak Park Festival Theatre (OPFT) is a professional theatre company in Oak Park, Illinois, under contract with Actors' Equity Association. The company was founded in 1975 by Marion Kaczmar, an Oak Park resident and arts patron, and performed Renaissance works, almost exclusively by William Shakespeare, until 2004, when it broadened its scope to classics of other eras. Its outdoor venue has been Austin Gardens, a wooded park near downtown Oak Park within walking distance from restaurants, Frank Lloyd Wright landmarks, and Metra and CTA trains. To attract a greater following, Renaissance, classical, and modern American works were added to the offerings, some being produced indoors in historic Farson-Mills Home and, in the 2010-11 season, in the studio space in the Madison Street Theatre.\n\nAudience members in Austin Gardens often picnic before performances. Occasionally, special performances by the Oak Park Recorder Society or other pre-show events are presented. Special Family Day performances and child-centered special crafts, games, and activities are held at least twice a summer to encourage families to introduce their children to Shakespeare.\n\nOak Park had a Shakespeare theatre previous to OPFT. In the 1960s, producers Josephine Forsberg, Ed Udovic, and actor-director Lee Henry created Village Classics Theatre and produced \"The Taming of the Shrew\", \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"Richard III\", and other productions outdoors on the hill of Field Playground under the auspices of the Recreation Department of the Village of Oak Park. Actors who performed included Equity performers Val Bettin, Robert Kidd, Tom Elrod, and Angel Casey, as well as Oak Park residents Clifford Osborne and Nick Cotsonas. The hill was, at that time, crowned on all sides with numerous large bushes and small trees, providing a natural set for battle scenes and forest liaisons. The professionalism of the productions brought, among others, esteemed \"Chicago Tribune\" drama critic Richard Christiansen, a native Oak Parker, to the theater.\n\nOak Park Festival Theatre was begun in 1975 by Marion Kaczmar, an Oak Park resident. Its first production was \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" with a cast that included David Mamet and William H. Macy. Its artistic directors since then have included Patrick O'Gara, Tom Mula, David Darlow, Dale Calandra, and Jack Hickey.\n\nThe 1980s were heady years for the theater. With numerous Actors' Equity contracts attracting Chicago professional actors and the presence of talented non-Equity actors, audiences numbering in the 300s and 400s came to see Shakespeare under the stars.\n\nThe 1990s began some difficult years for OPFT. During this time the number of Chicago area theaters quadrupled and other theaters, inspired by Festival Theatre's success, began to produce Shakespeare on a regular basis. The resulting decrease in attendance compounded by some questionable management decisions and the elimination of arts funding from the Village of Oak Park necessitated a decrease in the number of Actors' Equity contracts that could be offered.\n\nIn 2002 Joyce Porter, an actress, director, Professor of Theatre at Moraine Valley Community College, and member of the Board of Directors since 1989, averted a vote by the board to cease production and was, shortly after, elected President of the Board.\n\nPorter envisioned broadening the focus of the theater to performing classics of all eras year-round indoors as well as outdoors. The new artistic director, Jack Hickey, who had been appointed by the previous board president, worked with Porter to effect this expansion in phases. They attracted new board members and began financial reforms that led to solvency within a few years. Additional innovations under Porter’s leadership included educational programs, including a college intern program, the creation of a touring show, later revised and directed by Kevin Theis, and a summer workshop for teens. The theater, in a very real sense, owes its continued existence to the dedication of Porter and Hickey.\n\nIn 2010, Kevin Theis and Belinda Bremner were elected co-presidents of the board and began the expanded four-production season with stable theatre finances.\n\nFor most of its history, OPFT produced almost exclusively works by William Shakespeare. These included multiple productions of \"The Taming of the Shrew\", \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"The Tempest\", \"The Merchant of Venice\", \"As You Like It\", and \"Romeo and Juliet\", as well as \"Julius Caesar\", \"The Comedy of Errors\", \"Hamlet\", \"Macbeth\", \"Loves Labour's Lost\", and others. It also presented notable original adaptations of classics, including \"Falstaff\" by Tom Mula and \"Don Quixote\" by Dale Calandra. In 2011 it presented the \"History of King Henry IV\", an adaptation by Stanton Davis of Shakespeare's \"Henry IV\" parts 1 and 2. Featured Actors' Equity members have included Chicago actors David Mamet, David Darlow, Kristine Thatcher, Kevin Theis, Don Brearley, William J. Norris, Greg Vinkler, Aaron Christiansen, Ned Mochel, Susan Hart, Ray Andrecheck, Lanny Lutz, George Wilson, Kevin Gudahl, Mary Michell, Barbara Zahora, Henry Godinez, Steve Pickering, Kathey Logelin, Linda Kimborough, and others, as well as professional non-Equity actors such as Dennis Grimes, David Skvarla, Mark Richard, Michael W. Halberstam, Robert Petkoff, Toni Graves, Krista Lally, Maggie Kettering, Anne Gottlieb, Peter Ash, and Christopher Prentice.\n\nIts expanded production schedule has included \"Faith Healer\", \"Picnic\", \"Tartuffe\", \"All My Sons\", \"Cyrano de Bergerac\", and other plays considered to be classics of many eras.\n"}
{"id": "767035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=767035", "title": "Ohio gubernatorial elections", "text": "Ohio gubernatorial elections\n\nThe voters of the U.S. state of Ohio elect a governor for a four-year term. There is a term limit of two consecutive terms as governor. Bold type indicates victor. \"Italic type\" indicates incumbent. Starting in 1978, the nominees for governor and lieutenant governor ran on a joint ticket.\n\n"}
{"id": "51036128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51036128", "title": "Ossian Opera House", "text": "Ossian Opera House\n\nOssian Opera House, also known as the Knights of Columbus Hall, is a historic building located in Ossian, Iowa, United States. The opera house \"movement\" was active in Iowa from about 1870 to 1930. Numerous auditoriums and halls were built in towns large and small. Ossian is somewhat unusual for a small town in that its opera house was a single-use type of building, rather a mixed-use facility. The frame building with a gable roof was built in 1893 by the Ossian Hall Company. It features a three-part facade, with a central frontispiece that is flanked by side wings. The hall could seat 350 people. The local Knights of Columbus council, a Catholic fraternal organization, acquired the building in 1956, and renovated the building for their clubhouse. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "357652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357652", "title": "Pow wow", "text": "Pow wow\n\nA pow wow (also powwow or pow-wow) is a social gathering held by many different Native American communities. A modern pow wow is a specific type of event for Native American people to meet and dance, sing, socialize, and honor their cultures. Pow wows may be private or public. There is generally a dancing competition, with many different types of traditional dances, music and regalia, often with significant prize money awarded. Pow wows vary in length from a one-day event, to major pow wows called for a special occasion which can be up to one week long.\n\nIn popular culture, such as older Western movies, the term has also been used to describe any gathering of Native Americans, or to refer to any type of meeting, such as among military personnel. (Some consider this use as offensive and disrespectful.)\n\nThe word “pow wow” is derived from the Narragansett word \"powwaw\", meaning \"spiritual leader\". The term itself has different variants including \"Powaw\", \"Pawaw\", \"Powah\" and \"Pawau\". A number of different tribes claim to have held the “first” pow wow. Initially, public dances that most resemble what we now know as pow wows were most common in the Great Plains region of the United States during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, a time when the United States government fragmented many Native communities in the hopes of acquiring land for economic exploitation. In 1923, Charles Burke, Commissioner of Indian Affairs in the United States, passed legislation modeled on Circular 1665, which he published in 1921, that limited the times of the year in which Native Americans could practice traditional dance, which he deemed as directly threatening the Christian religion. However, many Native communities continued to gather together in secret to practice their cultures’ dance and music, in defiance of this, and other, legislation. By the mid-nineteenth century, pow wows were also being held in the Great Lakes region.\n\nPlanning for a pow wow generally begins months, perhaps even a year, in advance of the event by a group of people usually referred to as a pow wow committee. Pow wows may be sponsored by a tribal organization, by an American Native community within an urban area, a Native American Studies program or American Native club on a college or university campus, tribe, or any other organization that can provide startup funds, insurance, and volunteer workers.\n\nA pow wow committee consists of a number of individuals who do all the planning prior to the event. If a pow wow has a sponsor, such as a tribe, college, or organization, many or all members of the committee may come from that group. The committee is responsible to recruit and hire the head staff, publicize the pow wow, secure a location, and recruit vendors who pay for the right to set up and sell food or merchandise at the pow wow.\n\nThe head staff of a pow wow are the people who run the event on the day or days it actually occurs. They are generally hired by the pow wow committee several months in advance, as the quality of the head staff can affect attendance. To be chosen as part of the head staff is an honor, showing respect for the person's skills or dedication.\n\nThe arena director is the person in charge during the pow wow. Sometimes the arena director is referred to as the \"whip man\", sometimes the whip man is the arena director's assistant, and many pow wows don't have a whip man. The arena director makes sure dancers are dancing during the pow wow and that the drum groups know what type of song to sing. If there are contests the arena director is ultimately responsible for providing judges, though they often have another assistant who is the head judge. The arena director is also responsible for organizing any ceremonies that may be required during the pow wow, such as when an eagle feather is dropped, and others as required. One of the main duties of the arena director is to ensure that the dance arena is treated with the proper respect from visitors to the pow wow.\nThe master of ceremonies, or MC, is the voice of the pow wow. It is his job to keep the singers, dancers, and public informed as to what is happening. The MC sets the schedule of events, and maintains the \"drum rotation\", or order of when each drum group gets to sing. The MC is also responsible for filling any dead air time that may occur during the pow wow, often with jokes. The MC often runs any raffles or other contests that may happen during the pow wow.\n\nThe head dancers consist of the Head Man Dancer and the Head Woman Dancer, and often Head Teen Dancers, Head Little Boy and Girl Dancers, Head Golden Age Dancers, and a Head Gourd Dancer if the pow wow has a Gourd Dance. The head dancers lead the other dancers in the \"grand entry\" or parade of dancers that opens a pow wow. In many cases, the head dancers are also responsible for leading the dancers during songs, and often dancers will not enter the arena unless the head dancers are already out dancing.\n\nMusic for pow wow dance competition and other activities is provided by a \"Drum,\" a group of performers who play a large, specially designed drum and sing traditional songs. The number of members of a drum group may vary, but is usually at least four people, and can be far more. Some members of the drum group may wear traditional regalia and dance as well as drum, other times drummers simply wear street clothing. Drums usually rotate the duty of providing songs for the dancers, each taking a turn at the direction of the pow-wow management.\n\nThe Host Drum of the pow wow is a drum group primarily responsible for providing music for the dancers to dance to. At an Intertribal pow wow, two or more drums are hired to be the host drums. In some places there is a Host Northern Drum and a Host Southern Drum. Depending on the size of the pow wow and the region where it is held, there may be many drums, representing nearly every tribe or community attending the pow wow. At some pow wows, the drums are judged on the quality of their performances, with prize money awarded to the winners.\n\nEach drum has a Lead Singer who runs his or her drum and leads the singers while singing. Host drums are responsible for singing the songs at the beginning and end of a pow wow session, generally a starting song, the grand entry song, a flag song, and a veterans or victory song to start the pow-wow, and a flag song, retreat song and closing song to end the pow wow. Additionally, if a pow-wow has gourd dancing, the Southern Host Drum is often the drum that sings all the gourd songs, though another drum can perform them. The host drums are often called upon to sing special songs during the pow-wow.\n\nFamous host drums include Black Lodge Singers, Cozad Singers, and Yellowhammer.\n\nA pow wow is often set up as a series of large circles. The center circle is the \"dance arena\", outside of which is a larger circle consisting of the MC's table, drum groups, and sitting areas for dancers and their families. Beyond these two circles for participants is an area for spectators, while outside of all are designated areas with vendor's booths, where one can buy food (including frybread and Indian tacos), music, jewelry, souvenirs, arts and crafts, beadwork, leather, and regalia supplies.\n\nAt outdoor pow wows, this circle is often covered by either a committee-built arbor or tent, or each group, particularly the MC and the drums, will provide their own. While most of the time, a tent provides shelter from the sun, rain can also plague outdoor events. It is particularly important to protect the drums used by the drum groups, as they are sensitive to temperature changes and, if it rains, they cannot get wet. Most vendors provide their own tents or shelters at an outdoor pow wow.\n\nPow wow etiquette is required; such as rules for when photography is or is not acceptable, protocol for the Grand Entry, and so on. A few guidelines are common; clothing worn by participants is known as \"regalia\" and not to be called a \"costume.\" Some rules are for common sense courtesy: drums have special rules and should not be touched or played by those not a part of the drum group. People and their regalia should not be touched without permission. Photographs are also a big part of pow wow etiquette. Depending on the reservation and ceremony, viewers should ask before taking photographs or recording videos or tapes. Some tribes, such as the Pascua Yaqui and Hopi, ban photos and sketches of ceremonies. \n\nA pow-wow session begins with the Grand Entry and, in most cases, a prayer. The Eagle Staff leads the Grand Entry, followed by flags, then the dancers, while one of the host drums sings an opening song. This event is sacred in nature; some pow wows do not allow filming or photography during this time, though others allow it.\n\nIf military veterans or active duty soldiers are present, they often carry the flags and eagle staffs. They are followed by the head dancers, then the remaining dancers usually enter the arena in a specific order: Men's Traditional, Men's Grass Dance, Men's Fancy, Women's Traditional, Women's Jingle, and Women's Fancy. Teens and small children then follow in the same order. Following the Grand Entry, the MC will invite a respected member of the community to give an invocation. The host drum that did not sing the Grand Entry song will then sing a Flag Song, followed by a Victory or Veterans' Song, during which the flags and staffs are posted at the MC's table.\n\nMost of the various types of dances performed at a pow wow are descended from the dances of the Plains tribes of Canada and the United States. Besides those for the opening and closing of a pow wow session, the most common is the \"intertribal\", where a Drum will sing a song and anyone who wants to can come and dance. Similar dances are the \"round dance\"; \"crow hop\" when performed by a northern drum or a \"horse stealing song\" by a southern drum; there is also \"double beat\", \"sneakup\" and, for Women's Traditional and Jingle, \"sidestep\". Each of these songs have a different step to be used during them, but are open for dancers of any style.\n\nIn addition to the open dances, contest dances for a particular style and age group are often held, with the top winners receiving a cash prize. To compete in a contest, the dancer must be in regalia appropriate for the competition. Larger pow wows have more specific categories. The dance categories vary somewhat by region, but general categories are as follows:\n\n\nNormal intertribal dancing is an individual activity, but there are also couples and group dances. Couples dances include the \"two step\" and \"owl dance\". In a two step each couple follows the lead of the head dancers, forming a line behind them, whereas in an owl dance each couple dances alone. Group dances include the \"Snake and Buffalo\" dance, where the group dances to mimic the motions of a snake in the beginning of the dance, then change to mimic the actions of a herd of buffalo.\n\nAt pow wows where there is a large Southern Plains community in the area, the \"Gourd Dance\" is often included before the start of the pow wow sessions. The gourd dance originated with the Kiowa tribe, whence it spread, and is a society dance for veterans and their families. Unlike other dances, the gourd dance is normally performed with the drum in the center of the dance arena, not on the side.\n\nPow wow music is the Native American drumming, singing, and dancing performed at pow wows. Though there are many genres unique to different tribes pow wow music is characterized by pan or intertribalism with the Plains cultures, the originators of the modern pow wow, predominating. For information on dancing, see \"Dances\".\n\nThere may be many drums at a pow wow, especially weekend or week long ones, but each pow wow features a \"host drum\" which is accorded great respect and the most authority. The members of drum groups are often family, extended family, or friends. Groups are then often named for families, geographic locations, tribal societies, or more colorful names. Many groups display their names on jackets, caps, vehicles, and chairs. Traditionally only men would drum and women would sit behind the men singing high harmonies. Beginning in the mid-1970s, women began drumming with men and \"seconding\", or singing, an octave higher, the song. Today, there are mixed-gender and all-female drum groups.\n\nThe supplies a drum group carries include the drum, rawhide headed, a cloth bag for padded drum sticks, the drum stand, folding chairs for sitting, and, in some cases, a public address system. The drum head, stand, microphone stands, and PA box are often decorated with paintings or eagle feathers, fur, flags, and strips of colored cloth.\nReadily noticeable in performances are the \"hard beats\" used to indicate sections of the song. The \"traditional method\" consists of a pronounced strike by all singers every other beat. These may appear in the first or second line of a song, the end of a section, before the repetition of a song. A cluster of three hard beats (on consecutive beats) may be used at the end of a series of hard beats, while a few beats in the first line of a song indicate performer enthusiasm. In the \"Hot Five\" method five beats are used, with the first hard beat four beats before the second, after which the beats alternate.\n\nTo understand drum protocol, a drum may be thought of as a person or being and is to be regarded and respected as such. Drum etiquette is highly important. There are regional variations. The drum is the central symbol of Oklahoma pow wows and is located in the center of the dance floor and pow wow (which are themselves shaped in concentric circles). Southern drums are suspended by four posts, one for each direction. Northern drums are set up on the outside of the dance area, with the host drum in the best position. Drummer-singers are expected to remain at their drum and ready to sing at any moment's notice; a dancer might approach the drum and whistle, fan or gesture his staff over a drum to indicate his request for a song even if it is not that drum group's turn to sing. In some regions it is considered disrespectful to leave a drum completely unattended. Some drum groups do not allow females to sit down at their drum but welcome them to stand behind the drummers and sing backup harmonies; the reasons for this point vaguely to a variety of tribal stories that attempt to tell the history of drumming as each group understands it. The drum is offered gifts of tobacco during giveaways and musicians acknowledge this by standing.\n\nWhile the drum is central to pow wows, \"the drum only helps them keep beat. Dancers key on the melody of the song. Rhythms, tones, pitch all help create their 'moves'.\" (p. 85) Note that Bill Runs Above did not mention the lyrics of the songs, and while they are no doubt important, most lyrics of most songs employ vocables, syllable sounds such as \"ya\", \"hey\", and \"loi\" (p. 86). This is particularly evident in intertribal songs, such as the AIM Song, which cannot be biased towards a certain language.\nThe song structure consists of four \"pushups\", singing the chorus and verse through four times. In each chorus the melody is introduced or \"led off\" by the lead singer whose is then \"seconded\" by another singer who begins to vary the melody before the end of the leader's first line. They are then joined by the entire chorus for the rest of the pushup. Three \"down strokes\" or \"hard beats\" mark the end of the chorus and beginning of the verse, and during these drummers will alter their dancing such as by hopping low like fancy dancers. An increase in tempo and volume on the last five beats marks the end of the final verse. The dancing stops on the final beat and then a \"tail\", or coda, finishes the song with a shortened chorus. Sometimes a drum group will sing the song more than four times, particularly when the song feels good and the singers seize the moment for an extra pushup or two (or more), or when a dancer blows a whistle or passes his staff or fan over the drum to signal that the song is to be continued four extra pushups while he prays.\n\nSinging differs by region in that a high falsetto is used in the north while in the south a lower range is used. \"To the unfamiliar listener, Indian singing sounds exotic, different, and difficult to comprehend,\" and the contrast in the quality or timbre of voice used in traditional Indian and European musics may have much to do with that difficulty. However, \"to the trained ear, melodies flow, ascend and descend\" while dancers react to changes in the structure of the melody and the song. Boye Ladd says, \"If you give me a stink song, I'll dance stink. If you give me good music, I'll give you a great show,\" implying that one can appreciate the music through the dancing, which is readily appreciated by everyone. But others say that today's contemporary contest dancers are expected to dance their best no matter how well or poor the drum group is that is singing for their contest. Generally, Native American singing follows a pentatonic scale (as if playing only the black keys on a piano) and while, to the outsider, it may sound like we're just pounding a drum and going \"Heya-heya-heya-heya\" sometimes there are actual words in Cree, Pikuni, Lushuutsid, Niimipuu, Lakhota, Sahpatin, Salish, Ojibwemowin or many other Native languages.\n\nTalented singers also sing off-the-beat, placing the words between the drum beats rather than on them, which \"is probably the non-Indian's greatest obstacle in trying to learn Indian songs.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, drums had begun incorporating native words in addition to vocables. Groups such as the Black Lodge Singers have released songs with English words, such as on their children's albums. Given the intertribal style of pow wow music it may be viewed as less traditional or valuable though the music is also used to support tribal identity and display the value of a living culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21443041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21443041", "title": "Retour des cendres", "text": "Retour des cendres\n\nThe retour des cendres (\"return of the ashes\") was the return of the mortal remains of Napoleon I of France from the island of St Helena to France and their burial in the Hôtel des Invalides in Paris in 1840, on the initiative of Adolphe Thiers and King Louis-Philippe.\n\nAfter defeat in the War of the Sixth Coalition in 1814, Napoleon abdicated as emperor of the French, and was exiled to the Mediterranean island of Elba. The following year he returned to France, took up the throne, and began the Hundred Days. The powers which had prevailed against him the previous year mobilized against him, and defeated the French in the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon returned to Paris and abdicated on 22 June 1815. Foiled in his attempt to sail to the United States, he gave himself up to the British, who exiled him to the remote island of St Helena in the south Atlantic Ocean. He died and was buried there in 1821.\n\nIn a codicil to his will, written in exile at Longwood House on St Helena on 16 April 1821, Napoleon had expressed a wish to be buried \"on the banks of the Seine, in the midst of the French people [whom I] loved so much\". On the Emperor's death, Comte Bertrand unsuccessfully petitioned the British government to let Napoleon's wish be granted. He then petitioned the ministers of the newly restored Louis XVIII of France, from whom he did not receive an absolute refusal, instead the explanation that the arrival of the remains in France would undoubtedly be the cause or pretext for political unrest that the government would be wise to prevent or avoid, but that his request would be granted as soon as the situation had calmed and it was safe enough to do so.\n\nAfter the July Revolution a petition demanding the remains' reburial in the base of the Colonne Vendôme (on the model of Trajan's ashes, buried in the base of his column in Rome) was refused by the Chambre des Députés on 2 October 1830. However, ten years later, Adolphe Thiers, the new Président du Conseil under Louis-Philippe and a historian of the French Consulate and First French Empire, dreamed of the return of the remains as a grand political \"coup de théâtre\" which would definitively achieve the rehabilitation of the Revolutionary and Imperial periods on which he was engaged in his \"Histoire de la Révolution française\" and \"Histoire du Consulat et de l'Empire\". He also hoped to flatter the left's dreams of glory and restore the reputation of the July Monarchy (whose diplomatic relations with the rest of Europe were then under threat from its problems in Egypt, arising from its support for Muhammad Ali).\n\nIt was, nonetheless, Louis-Philippe's policy to try to regain \"all the glories of France\", to which he had dedicated the Château de Versailles, turning it into a museum of French history. Yet he was still reluctant and had to be convinced to support the project against his own doubts. On 10 May 1840 François Guizot, then French ambassador in London, against his own will submitted an official request to the British government, which was immediately approved according to the promise made in 1822.\n\nOn 12 May, during discussion of a bill on sugars, the French Interior Minister Charles de Rémusat mounted the rostrum at the Chambre des Députés and said:\n\nThe minister then introduced a bill to authorise \"funding of 1 million [francs] for translation of the Emperor Napoleon's mortal remains to the Église des Invalides and for construction of his tomb\". This announcement caused a sensation. A heated discussion began in the press, raising all sorts of objections as to the theory and to the practicalities. The town of Saint-Denis petitioned on 17 May that he instead be buried at their basilica, the traditional burial place of French kings.\n\nOn 25 and 26 May the bill was discussed in the Chambre. It was proposed by Bertrand Clauzel, an old soldier of the First French Empire who had been recalled by the July Monarchy and promoted to Marshal of France. In the commission's name he approved the choice of Les Invalides as the burial site, not without discussing the other suggested solutions (besides Saint-Denis, the Arc de Triomphe, the Colonne Vendôme, the Panthéon de Paris and even the Madeleine had been suggested to him). He proposed that the funding be raised to 2 million, that the ship bringing the remains back be escorted by a whole naval squadron and that Napoleon would be the last person to be buried in the Invalides. Speeches were made by the republican critic of the Empire Glais-Bizoin, who stated that \"Bonapartist ideas are one of the open wounds of our time; they represent that which is most disastrous for the emancipation of peoples, the most contrary to the independence of the human spirit.\" The proposal was defended by Odilon Barrot (the future president of Napoleon III's council in 1848), whilst the hottest opponent of it was Lamartine, who found the measure dangerous. Lamartine stated before the debate that \"Napoleon's ashes are not yet extinguished, and we're breathing in their sparks\". Before the sitting, Thiers tried to dissuade Lamartine from intervening but received the reply \"No, Napoleon's imitators must be discouraged.\" Thiers replied \"Oh! But who could think to imitate him today?\", only to receive Lamartine's reply that then spread right round Paris - \"I do beg your pardon, I meant to say Napoleon's parodists.\" During the debate Lamartine stated:\n\nIn conclusion Lamartine invited France to show that \"she [did not wish] to create out of this ash war, tyranny, legitimate monarchs, pretenders, or even imitators\". Hearing this peroration, which was implicitly directed against him, Thiers looked devastated on his bench. Even so, the Chambre was largely favourable and voted through the measures requested, although by 280 votes to 65 it did refuse to raise the funding from 1 to 2 million. The Napoleonic myth was already fully developed and only needed to be crowned. The July Monarchy's official poet Casimir Delavigne wrote:\n\nOn 4 or 6 June General Bertrand was received by Louis-Philippe, who gave him the Emperor's arms, which were placed in the treasury. Bertrand stated on this occasion:\n\nLouis-Philippe replied, with studied formality:\nThis ceremony angered Joseph and Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte, the latter writing in \"The Times\":\nAfter the arms ceremony Bertrand went to the Hôtel de ville and offered to the president of the Conseil Municipal the council chair that Napoleon had left to the capital - this is now in the Musée Carnavalet.\n\nAt 7pm on 7 July 1840 the frigate \"Belle Poule\" left Toulon, escorted by the corvette \"Favorite\". The Prince de Joinville, the king's third son and a career naval officer, was in command of the frigate and the expedition as a whole. Also on board the frigate were Philippe de Rohan-Chabot, an attaché to the French ambassador to the United Kingdom and commissioned by Thiers (wishing to gain reflected glory from any possible part of the expedition) to superintend the exhumation operations; generals Bertrand and Gourgaud; Count Emmanuel de Las Cases (député for Finistère and son of Emmanuel de Las Cases, the author of \"Le Mémorial de Sainte-Hélène\"); and five people who had been domestic servants to Napoleon on Saint Helena (Saint-Denis - better known by the name Ali Le Mameluck - Noverraz, Pierron, Archambault and Coursot). Captain Guyet was in command of the corvette, which transported Louis Marchand, Napoleon's chief valet de chambre, who had been with him on Saint Helena. Others on the expedition included Abbé Félix Coquereau (fleet almoner); Charner (Joinville's lieutenant and second in command), Hernoux (Joinville's aide-de-camp), Lieutenant Touchard (Joinville's orderly), General Bertrand's young son Arthur, and ship's doctor Rémy Guillard. Once the bill had been passed, the frigate was adapted to receive Napoleon's coffin: a candlelit chapel was built in the steerage, draped in black velvet embroidered with the Napoleonic symbol of silver bees, with a catafalque at the centre guarded by four gilded wooden eagles.\n\nThe voyage lasted 93 days and, due to the youth of some of its crews, turned into a tourist trip, with the Prince dropping anchor at Cadiz for four days, Madeira for two days and Tenerife for four days, while 15 days of balls and festivities were held at Bahia, Brazil. The two ships finally reached Saint Helena on 8 October and in the roadstead found the French brig \"Oreste\", commanded by Doret, who had been one of the ensigns who had come up with a daring plan at île d'Aix to get Napoleon away on a lugger after Waterloo and who would later become a capitaine de corvette. Doret had arrived at Saint Helena to pay his last respects to Napoleon but he also brought worrying news - the Egyptian incident, combined with Thiers' aggressive policy, were very close to causing a diplomatic rupture between France and the United Kingdom. Joinville knew that the ceremony would be respected but began to fear he would be intercepted by British ships on the return trip.\n\nThe mission disembarked the following day and went to Plantation House, where the island's governor, Major-General George Middlemore was waiting for them. After a long interview with Joinville (with the rest of the mission waiting impatiently in the lounge), Middlemore appeared before the rest of the mission and announced \"Gentlemen, the Emperor's mortal remains will be handed over to you on Thursday 15 October\". The mission then set off for Longwood, via the Valley of the Tomb (or Geranium Valley). Napoleon's tomb was in a solitary spot, covered by three slabs placed level with the soil. This very simple monument was surrounded by an iron grille, solidly fixed on a base and shaded by a weeping willow, with another such tree lying dead by its side. All this was surrounded by a wooden fence and very close by was a spring whose fresh and clear water Napoleon had enjoyed. At the gate to the enclosure, Joinville dismounted, bared his head and approached the iron grille, followed by the rest of the mission. In a deep silence they contemplated the severe and bare tomb. After half an hour Joinville remounted and the expedition continued on its way. Lady Torbet, owner of the land where the tomb was sited, had set up a booth to sell refreshments for the few pilgrims to the tomb and was unhappy about the exhumation since it would eliminate her already small profits from it. They then went in pilgrimage to Longwood, which was in a very ruinous state - the furniture had disappeared, many walls were covered with graffiti, Napoleon's bedroom had become a stable where a farmer pastured his beasts and got a little extra income by guiding visitors around it. The sailors from \"Oreste\" grabbed the billiard table, which had been spared by the goats and sheep, and carried off the tapestry and anything else they could carry, all the while being loudly shouted at by the farmer with demands for compensation.\n\nThe party returned to the Valley of the Tomb at midnight on 14 October, though Joinville remained on board ship since all the operations up until the coffin's arrival at the embarkation point would be carried out by British soldiers rather than French sailors, and so he felt he could not be present at work that he could not direct. The French section of the party was led by the Count of Rohan-Chabot and included generals Bertrand and Gourgaud, Emmanuel de Las Cases, the Emperor's old servants, Abbé Coquereau, two choirboys, captains Guyet, Charner and Doret, doctor Guillard (chief surgeon of the \"Belle-Poule\") and a lead-worker, Monsieur Leroux. The British section was made up of William Wilde, Colonel Hodson and Mr Scale (members of the island's colonial council), Mr Thomas, Mr Brooke, Colonel Trelawney (the island's artillery commander), naval lieutenant Littlehales, Captain Alexander (representing Governor Middlemore, who was indisposed, although he eventually arrived accompanied by his son and an aide) and Mr Darling (interior decorator at Longwood during Napoleon's captivity).\n\nBy the light of torches, the British soldiers set to work. They removed the grille, then the stones that formed a border to the tomb. The topsoil had already been removed and the French shared among themselves the flowers that had been growing in it. The soldiers then pulled up the three slabs that were closing the pit over. Long efforts were needed to break through the masonry enclosing the coffin. At 9.30 the last slab was raised and the coffin could be seen. Coquereau took some water from the nearby spring, blessed it and sprinkled it over the coffin, before reciting the psalm \"De profundis\". The coffin was raised and transported into a large blue and white striped tent that had been put up the previous day. Then they proceeded to open the bier, in complete silence. The first coffin, of mahogany, had to be sawn off at both ends to get out the second coffin, made of lead, which was then placed within the neo-classical, ebony coffin that had been brought for it from France. General Middlemore and Lieutenant Touchard then arrived and presented themselves, before the party proceeded to unsolder the lead coffin. The coffin inside this, again of mahogany, was remarkably well-preserved. Its screws were removed with difficulty. It was then possible to open, with infinite care, the final coffin, made of tin.\n\nWhen the lid of this coffin was removed, \"a white form appeared - of uncertain shape\". The white satin padding from the coffin lid had become detached and was covering the body like a shroud. Doctor Guillard delicately rolled it back, from the feet to the head, to reveal the body. Napoleon's green uniform with red facings, that of a colonel of chasseurs, was perfectly preserved. The chest was still crossed by the red ribbon of the Légion d’honneur, although the decorations and buttons on the uniform were slightly tarnished. The body remained in a comfortable position, the head resting on a cushion and the left forearm and hand on the thigh. The facial expression was serene, the eyes were fully closed (with some eyelashes showing) and only the sides of the nose had changed. A slightly receding gum allowed to shine, as at the moment of death, three very white incisors. The chin was stippled with the beginnings of a blueish beard which had emerged due to the dryness of the skin. The hands were perfectly preserved, with long and very white fingernails still attached. Only the seams of the boots had cracked, showing the four smaller toes on each foot. Napoleon's small hat was placed sideways across his thighs.\n\nAll the spectators were in a state of shock. Gourgaud, Las Cases, Philippe de Rohan, Marchand and all the servants wept; Bertrand seemed to be overcome with emotion. After two minutes' examination, Guillard proposed that he continue examining the body and open the jars containing the heart and the stomach. Gourgaud, however, suppressing his tears, became angry and ordered that the coffin be closed at once. The doctor complied and replaced the satin padding, spraying it with a little creosote before putting back on the tin lid (though without re-soldering it) and the mahogany lid. Then the lead coffin was re-soldered and finally the combination lock on the ebony coffin that had been brought from France was closed.\n\nThis ebony coffin, made in Paris, was 2.56m long, 1.05m wide and 0.7m deep. Its design imitated classical Roman coffins. The lid bore the sole inscription \"Napoléon\" in gold letters. Each of the four sides was decorated with the letter N in gilded bronze and there were six strong bronze rings for handles. On the coffin were also inscribed the words \"Napoléon Empereur mort à Sainte-Hélène le 05 Mai 1821 (Napoleon, Emperor, died at St Helena on 05 May 1821)\".\n\nThe ebony coffin and its contents were then placed in a sixth coffin, made of oak and designed to protect that of ebony. Then this mass, totalling 1,200 kilos, was hoisted by 43 gunners onto a solid hearse, draped in black with four plumes of black feathers at each corner and drawn with great difficulty by four horses caparisoned in black. The coffin was covered with a large (4.3m by 2.8m) black pall made of single piece of velvet sown with golden bees and bearing eagles surmounted by imperial crowns at its corners as well as a large silver cross. The ladies of Saint Helena offered to the French commissioner the tricolour flags that would be used in the ceremony and which they had made with their own hands, and the imperial flag that would be flown by \"Belle Poule\".\n\nAt 3.30, in driving rain, with the citadel and \"Belle Poule\" firing alternate gun salutes, the cortège slowly moved along under the command of Middlemore. Count Bertrand, Baron Gourgaud, Baron Las Cases the younger and Marchand walked holding the corners of the pall. A detachment of militia brought up the rear, followed by a crowd of people, while the forts fired their cannon on every minute. Reaching Jamestown, the procession marched between two ranks of garrison soldiers with arms reversed. The French ships lowered their launches, with that of \"Belle Poule\", ornamented with gilded eagles, carrying Joinville.\n\nAt 5.30 the funeral procession stopped at the end of the jetty. Middlemore, old and ill, walked painfully over to Joinville. Their brief conversation, more or less in French, marked the point at which the remains were officially handed over to France. With infinite caution, the heavy coffin was placed in the launch. The French ships (up until then showing signs of mourning) hoisted their colours and all the ships present fired their guns. On \"Belle Poule\" 60 men were paraded, drums beat a salute and funeral airs were played.\n\nThe coffin was hoisted onto the deck and its oak envelope was taken off. Coquereau gave absolution and Napoleon had returned to French territory. At 6.30 the coffin was placed in a candlelit chapel, ornamented with military trophies, on the stern of the ship. At 10 the following day mass was said on deck, then the coffin was lowered into the candlelit chapel in the steerage, while the frigate's band played. Once this had been done, each officer received a commemorative medal. The sailors divided up among themselves the oak coffin and the dead willow that had been taken away from the Valley of the Tomb.\n\nAt 8am on Sunday 18 October \"Belle Poule\", \"Favorite\" and \"Oreste\" set sail. \"Oreste\" rejoined the Levant division, whilst the two other ships sailed towards France at full speed, fearful of being attacked. No notable setback occurred to \"Belle Poule\" and \"Favorite\" during the first 13 days of this voyage, though on 31 October they met the merchantman \"Hambourg\", whose captain gave Joinville news of Europe, confirming the news he had received from Doret. The threat of war was confirmed by the Dutch ship \"Egmont\", en route for Batavia. Joinville was sufficiently worried to summon the officers of both his ships to a council of war, to plan precautions to keep the remains out of harm's way should they meet British warships. He had \"Belle Poule\" prepared for possible battle. So that all the ship's guns could be mounted, the temporary cabins set up to house the commission to Saint Helena were demolished and the dividers between them, as well as their furniture, were thrown into the sea - earning the area the nickname \"Lacédémone\". The crew were frequently drilled and called to action stations. Most importantly, he ordered \"Favorite\" to sail away immediately and make for the nearest French port. Joinville was aware that no British warship would attack the ship carrying the body, but also that they would be unlikely to extend the same generosity to \"Favorite\". He doubted, with good reason, that he would be able to save the corvette if she got within range of an enemy ship, without risking his frigate and its precious cargo. Another hypothesis is that \"Favorite\" was the slower ship and would only have held \"Belle Poule\" back if they had been attacked.\n\nOn 27 November \"Belle-Poule\" was only 100 leagues from the coasts of France, without having encountered any British patrol. Nonetheless, her commander and crew continued with their precautions - even though these were now unnecessary, because Anglo-French tension had ceased, after France had had to abandon its Egyptian ally and Thiers had been forced to resign.\n\nIn the meantime, in October 1840, a new ministry nominally presided over by Marshal Nicolas Soult but in reality headed by François Guizot succeeded Thiers's cabinet in an attempt to resolve the crisis Thiers had provoked with the United Kingdom over the Middle East. This new arrangement gave rise to fresh hostile comment in the press as to the \"\"retour des cendres\":\n\nFearful of being overthrown thanks to the \"retour\"\" initiative (the future Napoleon III had just attempted a coup d'État) yet unable to abandon it, the government decided to rush it to a conclusion - as Victor Hugo commented, \"It was pressed into finishing it.\" The interior minister, Comte Duchâtel, affirmed that \"Whether the preparations are ready or not, the funeral ceremony will take place on 15 December, whatever weather should happen or arise.\"\n\nEveryone in Paris and its suburbs were conscripted to get the preparations done as quickly as possible, with the coffin's return voyage being faster than expected and internal political problems having caused considerable delays. From the Pont de Neuilly to Les Invalides, papier-mâché structures were set up which would line the funeral procession, though these were slapped together only late on the night before the ceremony.\n\nThe funeral carriage itself, resplendently gilded and richly draped, was 10m high, 5.8m wide, 13m long, weighed 13 tonnes and was drawn by four groups of four richly caparisoned horses. It had four massive gilded wheels, on whose axles rested a thick tabular base. This supported a second base, rounded at the front and forming a semi-circular platform on which were set a group of genii supporting Charlemagne's crown. At the back of this rose a dais, like an ordinary pedestal, on which stood a smaller pedestal in the shape of a quadrangle. Finally: 14 statues, larger than life and gilded all over, held up a vast shield on their heads, above which was placed a model of Napoleon's coffin; this whole ensemble was veiled in a long purple crêpe, sown with gold bees. The back of the car was made up of a trophy of flags, palms and laurels, with the names of Napoleon's main victories.\n\nTo avoid any revolutionary outbreak, the government (which had already insisted on the remains being buried with full military honours in Les Invalides) ordered that the ceremony would be strictly military, dismissing the civil cortège and thus infuriating the law and medical students who were to have formed it.\nThe diplomatic corps gathered at the British embassy in Paris and decided to abstain from participating in the ceremony due to their antipathy to Napoleon as well as to Louis-Philippe.\n\nOn 30 November \"Belle-Poule\" entered the roadstead of Cherbourg, and six days later the remains were transferred to the steamer \"la Normandie\". Reaching Le Havre, and then on to Val-de-la-Haye, near Rouen, where the coffin was transferred to \"la Dorade 3\" for carrying further up the Seine, on whose banks people had gathered to pay homage to Napoleon. On 14 December \"la Dorade 3\" moored at Courbevoie in the northwest of Paris.\n\nThe date for the reburial was set for 15 December. Victor Hugo evoked this day in his \"Les Rayons et les Ombres\":\n\nDespite the temperature never rising above 10 degrees Celsius, the crowd of spectators stretching from the Pont de Neuilly to the Invalides was huge. Some houses' rooftops were covered with people. Respect and curiosity won out over irritation, and the biting cold cooled all restlessness in the crowd. Under pale sunlight after snow, the plaster statues and gilded-card ornaments produced an ambiguous effect upon Hugo: \"the niggardly clothing the grandiose\". Hugo also wrote:\nThe cortège arrived at the Invalides around 1:30, and at 2 pm it reached the gate of honour. The king and all France's leading statesmen were waiting in the royal chapel, the Église du Dôme. Joinville was to make a short speech, but nobody had remembered to forewarn him - he contented himself with a sabre salute and the king mumbled a few unintelligible words. \"Le Moniteur\" described the scene as best it could:\n\nGeneral Atthalin stepped forward, bearing on a cushion the sword that Napoleon had worn at Austerlitz and Marengo, which he presented to Louis-Philippe. The king made a strange, recoiling movement, then turned to Bertrand and said: \"General, I charge you with placing the Emperor's glorious sword upon his coffin.\" Overcome with emotion, Bertrand was unable to complete this task, and Gourgaud rushed over and seized the weapon. The king turned to Gourgaud and said: \"General Gourgaud, place the Emperor's sword upon the coffin.\"\n\nIn the course of the funeral ceremony, the Paris Opera's finest singers were conducted by Habeneck in a performance of Mozart's \"Requiem\". The ceremony was more worldly than reverent - the deputies were particularly uncomfortable:\nThe bearing of the old Marshal Moncey, the governor of the Invalides, somewhat redeemed the impertinence of the court and the politicians. For a fortnight he had been in agony, pressing his doctor to keep him alive at least to complete his role in the ceremony. At the end of the religious ceremony he managed to walk to the catafalque, sprinkled holy water on it and pronounced as the closing words: \"And now, let us go home to die\".\n\nFrom 16 to 24 December, the Église des Invalides, illuminated as on the day of the ceremony, remained open to the public. The people had long disbelieved in Napoleon's death and a rumour spread that the tomb was only a cenotaph. It was claimed that on St Helena the commission had found only an empty coffin and that the British had secretly sent the body to London for an autopsy. (This rumour has recently been revived.) Hugo wrote that, though the actual body was there, the people's good sense was not amiss:\n\nThe return of the remains had been intended to boost the image of the July Monarchy and to provide a tinge of glory to its organisers, Thiers and Louis-Philippe. Thiers had spotted the rise of the French infatuation with the First Empire that would go on to become the Napoleonic myth. He also thought that returning the remains would seal the new spirit of accord between France and the United Kingdom, even while the Egyptian affair was beginning to agitate Europe. As for Louis-Philippe, in the end he was disappointed in his hope to use the remains' return to give some small additional legitimacy to his monarchy, rickety and indifferent to the French people.\n\nThe great majority of the French, excited by the return of the remains of one whom they had come to see as a martyr, felt betrayed that they had been unable to render him the homage that they had wished. Hence the government began to fear rioting and took every possible measure to prevent the people from assembling. Accordingly, the cortège had been mostly river-borne and had spent little time in towns outside Paris. In Paris, only important personages were present at the ceremony. Worse, the lack of respect shown by most of the politicians shocked public opinion and revealed a real rupture, a gulf, between the people and their government.\n\nThe \"retour\" also did not prevent France from losing its diplomatic war with the United Kingdom. France was forced to give up supporting its Egyptian ally. Thiers, losing his way in aggressive policies, was ridiculed and the king was compelled to dismiss him even before \"Belle Poule\" arrived. Thiers had managed to push through the return of the remains, but was unable to profit from that success.\nAs planned, Napoleon's remains repose today in a magnificent monument beneath the middle of the dome in the Invalides. The monument was designed by architect Louis Visconti in 1842, but was not completed until 1861.\n\nA circular hollow was cut beneath the dome as a kind of open crypt. In it was placed a large sarcophagus - said to be of \"red porphyry\", but in fact of aventurine quartzite, similar to porphyry, from quarries in Karelia, Northern Russia on the shore of the Onega lake. The sarcophagus rests upon a base of green granite from the Vosges. That green granite block rests, in turn, upon a slab of black marble, 5.5m x 1.2m x 0.65m, quarried at Sainte-Luce and transported to Paris with great difficulty.\n\nOn 2 April 1861, Napoleon's coffin was transferred from the chapel of Saint-Jérôme, where it had lain since 1840. The transfer was accompanied only by an intimate ceremony: present were the Emperor Napoleon III, Empress Eugénie, the Prince Imperial Napoléon Eugène, other related princes, government ministers and senior officials of the crown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12773963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12773963", "title": "Revolt of Babylon (626 BC)", "text": "Revolt of Babylon (626 BC)\n\nThe Revolt of Babylon in 626 BC refers to a series of events from 626 BC to 616 BC when the Babylonians succeeded in establishing their independence and removing the last Assyrian influence in their domains. The revolt is one of the key factors contributing to the fall of Assyria; within four years of the end of the revolt, the Assyrian presence in Mesopotamia ends and the Assyrians fled into exile at Harran in the eastern parts of Syria.\n"}
{"id": "19536415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19536415", "title": "Shakespeare in Delaware Park", "text": "Shakespeare in Delaware Park\n\nShakespeare in Delaware Park is one of the largest free outdoor Shakespeare festivals in the country which takes place during summer months in Delaware Park located in the city of Buffalo, New York. The festival attracts about 40,000 audience members each year.\n\nProductions are performed for the public at no cost in Buffalo's Delaware Park, designed by Frederick Law Olmsted. Over 76 productions have been mounted in the 41 years that Shakespeare in Delaware Park has been running, with plays ranging from tragedies such as Romeo and Juliet, comedies like The Taming of the Shrew, and histories such as Henry IV (parts 1 and 2). The majority of actors come from the Buffalo area, and performances run Tuesday through Sunday from June through August, with dates varying each year. The shows are always performed in the evening, beginning at 7:30pm.\n\nShakespeare in Delaware Park is a not-for-profit, professional theatre company.\n\nShakespeare in Delaware Park was first founded in 1976 by Saul Elkin, as a part of the University at Buffalo’s theater department.\n\nElkin began the project for Shakespeare in Delaware Park by asking the Mayor of the city of Buffalo to help in developing a free Shakespeare theater festival to resemble the New York Shakespeare Festival. Mayor Stanley Makowski gave permission for the performances to take place in Delaware Park, as well as pledge to fund the electricity costs for all performances (a pledge honored to this day). \n\nShakespeare in Delaware Park’s previous Tudor style stage was first built and designed by Gary Casarella (technical director for the University at Buffalo's Theatre department), and was constructed at the University at Buffalo with funding from the school's dean. After the construction of the stage it was marked, taken apart, and transported to Delaware Park, where it was reconstructed at the base of what is now known as “Shakespeare Hill”, during the 1993 season, in time for that year's production of Romeo and Juliet. That season's first production used a temporary stage, and prior seasons used other stages. The seating has always been the hill itself, and audience members watch the productions on blankets, lawn chairs, and other self-provided seating.\n\nIn 1991, Shakespeare in Delaware Park became a fully independent non-profit organization whose only funding comes from donations made by the public, audience members, the City of Buffalo, Erie County, and outside entities such as M&T Bank, the local NBC affiliate WGRZ-TV, the New York State Council on the Arts (NYSCA) and \"The Buffalo News\".\n\nThe majority of roles for the productions in Shakespeare in Delaware Park are done through an audition process held at the Shakespeare in Delaware Park’s offices, before the summer season. Most actors are from the local area of Buffalo, NY and are hired seasonally, with the exception of a small troupe members who work year long with the company, performing in high schools throughout the Buffalo area.\n\nPrevious education productions include \"Et Tu, Shakespeare?\", “Where There’s a Will, There’s a Play!” written by the troupe members, and are hour long shows they perform for high school students that teaches parts of Shakespeare’s life, times, and Theater, by incorporating different parts of Shakespeare’s work such as his plays; “Comedy of Errors”, “Midsummer Night’s Dream”, and “Hamlet”, and some of his sonnets. The actors will then stay after the performance to answer questions students might have about Shakespeare and his work. This small troupe of actors also provide workshops for students where they can work alongside the actors to learn different elements such as; iambic pentameter, sound, meaning, and image, and can arrange these workshops to work around a specific Shakespearean play students may be working on. \n\nThe company also offers an intense 6 day workshop that includes the performance of “Where There’s a Will, There’s a Play”, the three-day workshop, and a joint performance that includes both students and troupe members from Shakespeare in Delaware Park.\n\n\n\n1976 \n\n1977\n\n1978\n\n1979\n\n1980\n\n1981\n\n1982\n\n1983\n\n1984\n\n1985\n\n1986\n\n1987\n\n1988\n\n1989\n\n1990 \n\n1991\n\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\n1995\n\n1996\n\n1997\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2001 \n\n2002\n\n2003\n\n2004\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014\n\n2015\n\n2016\n\n2017\n\n2018\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4264594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4264594", "title": "Short-course Off-road Drivers Association", "text": "Short-course Off-road Drivers Association\n\nThe Short-course Off-road Drivers Association (usually abbreviated as SODA) was an off-road racing sanctioning body in the United States.\n\nSODA began as a Midwestern United States off-road racing series in the early 1970s. The series was televised in the 1980s and 1990s. Series races appeared tape delayed on ESPN/ESPN2 (often during in the winter months). Most races were held in Wisconsin but a few were held in Michigan. The crown jewel of the series was the off-road championship event held at the Crandon International Off-Road Raceway - the \"home of the world championship off-road race\".\n\nThe vehicles used were primarily Trophy trucks, buggies (which were based on the original Volkswagen Beetle called Baja Bug), and a few stock cars. All vehicles had heavily modified suspension.\n\nMost drivers from SODA moved to CORR (Championship Off-Road Racing) after the 1997 season, which basically ended SODA's existence. A greatly diminished series continued on for at least a few years afterwards.\n\nIn 1997, Sierra Entertainment released a SODA-themed racing video game called \"SODA Off-Road Racing\".\n\n\nMany tracks held races:\n\n\nEvan Evans 1996 Class 13 Champion and Most Wins in a single season Ever\n\n"}
{"id": "30268865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30268865", "title": "Speed thinking", "text": "Speed thinking\n\nSpeed thinking is a type of thinking technique proposed by authors such as Dr Ken Hudson, Malcolm Gladwell and Edward de Bono that, according to the authors, could accelerate the pace of thinking and improve how an individual or group thinks, creates, solves and acts.\n\nStructurally, Hudson's speed thinking involves two-minute bursts whilst trying to generate nine possibilities in a five-step process (start, enhance, connect, evaluate, action).\n"}
{"id": "3951130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3951130", "title": "Spying on the United Nations", "text": "Spying on the United Nations\n\nSpying on the United Nations refers to acts of espionage committed by states against the United Nations.\n\nThe UN claims that acts of espionage on it are illegal under a number of international treaties, including the 1946 Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations, the 1947 agreement between the United Nations and the United States, and the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.\n\nIn one notable incident, the US and other Western countries were found to be spying on the UN in March 2003, in the run-up to the Iraq War, and actual bugging devices were found inside the UN. In 2010, WikiLeaks revealed that US diplomats had been spying on UN leaders. On 25 August 2013, Der Spiegel revealed US National Security Agency secretly monitored the U.N.'s internal video conferencing system by decrypting during 2012.\n\nThe British newspaper \"The Observer\" published an investigative report revealing that the National Security Agency (NSA) of the United States was conducting a secret surveillance operation directed at intercepting the telephone and email communications of several U.N. Security Council diplomats, both in their offices and in their homes. This campaign, the result of a directive by National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice, was aimed primarily at the delegations from Angola, Cameroon, Chile, Mexico, Guinea and Pakistan. The investigative report cited an NSA memo which advised senior agency officials that it was \"'mounting a surge' aimed at gleaning information not only on how delegations on the Security Council will vote on any second resolution on Iraq, but also 'policies', 'negotiating positions', 'alliances' and 'dependencies' – the 'whole gamut of information that could give US policymakers an edge in obtaining results favourable to US goals or to head off surprises'.\n\nThe authenticity of this memo has been called into question by many in the US and it is still unclear as to whether or not it is legitimate. \n\nA young translator for Britain's Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), Katharine Gun, leaked the memo to the \"Observer\" because she believed the war was illegal. She was fired from her job at GCHQ. Gun was arrested and accused of violating the Official Secrets Act 1989, but charges were dropped after the prosecution presented no evidence.\n\nIn a 2009 confidential cable released by WikiLeaks the following year, US diplomats were directed to spy on UN leaders, including Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, as well as the Security Council delegations of Russia, China, France, and the United Kingdom. According to documents leaked by Edward Snowden the NSA successfully cracked the encryption guarding the United Nations' internal videoconferencing system in the summer of 2012.\n\nClare Short, a British cabinet minister who resigned in May 2003 over the war, stated in media interviews that British intelligence regularly spied on UN officials. She stated that she had read transcripts of Kofi Annan's conversations.\n\nOn 26 February 2004 Short alleged on the BBC \"Today\" radio programme that British spies regularly intercept UN communications, including those of Kofi Annan, its Secretary-General. The revelation came the day after the unexplained dropping of whistleblowing charges against former GCHQ translator Katharine Gun. Reacting to Short's statement, Tony Blair said \"I really do regard what Clare Short has said this morning as totally irresponsible, and entirely consistent [with Short's character].\" Blair also claimed that Short had put UK security, particularly the security of its spies, at risk. The same day, on the BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme, Short called Blair's response \"pompous\" and said that Britain had no need to spy on Kofi Annan. Blair did not explicitly deny the claims but Robin Cook, former Foreign Secretary, wrote that in his experience he would be surprised if the claims were true.\n\nA few days later (on 29 February 2004) Ms Short appeared on ITV's \"Jonathan Dimbleby\" programme. She revealed that she had been written to by Britain's senior civil servant, Cabinet Secretary Andrew Turnbull. Turnbull's confidential letter (which Short showed to Dimbleby, and which was quoted on the programme) formally admonished her for discussing intelligence matters in the media, and threatened \"further action\" if she did not desist from giving interviews on the issue. Turnbull wrote that she had made claims \"which damage the interests of the United Kingdom\", and that he was \"extremely disappointed\". The \"further action\" referred to in the letter has been interpreted as threatening either the removal of Short's status as a Privy Counsellor or to legal action under the Official Secrets Act. Either course of action would be without recent precedent; the last time a Privy Counsellor's status was revoked was in 1921 when Sir Edgar Speyer was accused of collaborating with the Germans during the First World War. However, on 1 March 2004, Tony Blair's official spokesman refused to rule out such a step.\n\nHowever, in the same interview on the \"Jonathan Dimbleby\" programme, Short backtracked on her claim about British agents bugging Mr Annan. She admitted that the transcripts she saw of Mr Annan's private conversations might have related to Africa and not to Iraq.\nAsked whether she could confirm that the transcripts related to Iraq, she said: \"I can't, but there might well have been ... I cannot remember a specific transcript in relation, it doesn't mean it wasn't there.\" Short also admitted that her original claim, on the \"Today\" programme, that Britain had eavesdropped on Mr Annan may have been inaccurate. Asked whether the material could have passed to the British by the Americans, she said: \"It could. But it normally indicates that. But I can't remember that.\"\n\nAustralia reportedly received transcripts from the US and British phone-tapping operations against UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and another top UN figure, Hans Blix via phone-tapping. Australia also allegedly assisted the bugging with spy satellites connected to the Pine Gap relay centre near Alice Springs.\n\nBritish writer Gordon Thomas alleges that Mossad, Israel's foreign intelligence service, sees penetrating all UN diplomatic missions as a task of its New York \"katsa\".\n\nGeneral Alain Pellegrini, former commander of UNIFIL, the UN peacekeeping force in Lebanon, claimed that Israel regularly spies on the peacekeeping mission. According to Pellegrini, Israeli agents had access to all reports and information submitted by UNIFIL to the UN, and is either obtained by wiretapping or is stolen when it reaches New York. According to Pellegrini, Israeli intelligence even accessed his encrypted semi-annual reports to the UN.\n\nCypriot intelligence is alleged to have stolen 6,500 UN documents containing sensitive information on its negotiations with Turkish Cypriot leaders. An internal UN investigation reportedly concluded that the theft was the work of the Cyprus Intelligence Service (CIS). The operation was reportedly headed by a CIS agent who befriended Sonja Bachmann, a senior aide to Alexander Downer, an Australian politician who served as an adviser to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and the special rapporteur on the Cyprus negotiations. The agent allegedly obtained Bachmann's email login information, allowing a CIS team to access Downer's email several times while he was away on UN business.\n\nSubsequently, stolen documents were leaked to the press, and the UN investigation concluded that the Cypriots leaked the documents in the hope of undermining the role of Downer, who was seen as being too closely aligned to Turkish Cypriots.\n\nIn a 28-page report to the UN Security Council on the situation in Western Sahara and on the situation faced by MINURSO, the UN monitoring force in the region, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wrote that Morocco was intercepting MINURSO communications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1266232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266232", "title": "Stock Car Brasil", "text": "Stock Car Brasil\n\nStock Car Brasil, also known as Stock Car V8, is a touring car auto racing series based in Brazil. It is considered the major South American motorsports series.\n\nThe series was created in 1979 to be an alternative to the former Division 1 championship that competed with Chevrolet Opala and Ford Maverick. The dominance of Chevrolet over Ford models was causing a lack of public interest and sponsors. General Motors then created a new category, with a name reminiscent of the famous NASCAR with standardized performance and improvements for all the competitors. The first race was run on April 22, 1979 at the Autódromo Internacional de Tarumã, Rio Grande do Sul with 19 cars competing, all of them 6-cylinder Chevrolet Opalas. The pole position was held by José Carlos Palhares, and the race was won by Affonso Giaffone.\n\nThis decade saw the emergence of several rivalries between drivers. In 1982 two races were held for the first time at the Autodromo do Estoril, Portugal.\n\nThe first major change in the Stock Car standard occurred in 1987. With the support of General Motors, a fairing designed and built by coachbuilder Caio was adopted, which was adapted to the Opala's chassis. The car exhibited improved aerodynamics and performance. Safety equipment become more sophisticated.\n\nIn 1990 General Motors renewed its interest in the category and built a prototype intended to replace the Caio/Hidroplas model.\n\nIn 1991 new rules were established and the races were disputed in double rounds on the weekends, with two drivers per car, but the series continued to lose ground with the public, sponsors and television networks to other championships with many manufacturers involved, such as Campeonato Brasileiro de Marcas e Pilotos that included the involvement of Chevrolet, Fiat, Ford and Volkswagen, as well as the always popular Formula racing championships.\n\nIn 1994 the championship returned to the old rules and Chevrolet announced that the Chevrolet Omega would be introduced as the new standard model. As part of a marketing strategy and in order to reduce costs, the tickets were free and the races were now held in double rounds sponsored by Brazilian Formula Chevrolet in an event called \"Chevrolet Challenger\". This decade marked a dominant era for Ingo Hoffmann with eight titles, three in partnership with Ângelo Giombell. His only serious challenges came from Paulo Gomes in 1995 and Chico Serra in 1999.\n\nFrom 2000 on, General Motors departed the series and Vicar Promoções Desportivas, owned by former racing driver Carlos Col, took over the organization. This ushered in a period of modernization and improved security as the category started to use a tubular chassis designated JL G-09. The project engineer was Edgardo Fernandez, who did something similar for the Argentina category Top Race V6, inspired by both NASCAR and the DTM. The chassis was built by Zeca Giaffone's JL Racing.\n\nIn 2003 the category replaced the Chevrolet 6-cylinder engine used with modifications since 1979 with a Chevrolet V8 imported from the United States by JL Racing, similar to the engines used by the NASCAR Busch Series. General Motors participated in the series with the Vectra.\n\nIn 2005 Mitsubishi entered the series with the Mitsubishi Lancer. October 30 of that same year marked the first race held in Argentina at Autódromo Juan y Oscar Gálvez, alongside the TC 2000 category. Attendance was 70,000. Giuliano Losacco was the winner, with Mateus Greipel second and Luciano Burti coming in third.\n\nIn 2006, Volkswagen entered in the series with the Bora and the championship adopted a point system similar to the one used in NASCAR, as well as a new system with 16 teams and 32 drivers. At the end of the season, the 10 best drivers were automatically qualified to run the 4 final races, called \"Super Final\", similar to the Chase for the Sprint Cup. In 2007, the category gained another manufacturer with the entrance of Peugeot with its 307 Sedan. Volkswagen announced it was withdrawing from the category in 2008, with two-time champion Mitsubishi doing the same one year later.\n\nFor 2010 the category will use ethanol as fuel and engines with electronic injection.\n\nIn 2011, Peugeot re-entered the championship announced with the 408 sedan model, replacing the 307. In 2012, Chevrolet introduced the Chevrolet Sonic as its competing model. The category announced changes for 2012 season, dropping the \"Super Final\" system. The scoring system was also changed, with the top twenty drivers in each race being awarded points. For the 2016 season, General Motors announced the Chevrolet Cruze as the replacement for the Sonic. In 2017, Peugeot announced its retirement from the competition leaving Chevrolet as the lone automaker to compete in the series in which all drivers now use identical Cruze models, making it a one-make style championship in South American stock car racing.\n\nCreated in 1992, the \"Brazilian Formula Chevrolet\" was the Series' main support category. It used the same chassis as Formula Opel until 1994, subsequently switching to a Techspeed chassis until 2002, which was the same year the category was retired.\n\nThe \"Stock Car Light\" second tier was created in 1993, and reformulated in 2008 to become the \"Copa Vicar\". After a merger with Pick-up Racing Brasil, the \"Copa Chevrolet Montana\" was established and standardized around the Chevrolet Montana model. Pick-up Racing Brasil was a category created in 2001 but only became part of the Stock Car Brasil programme until 2006.\n\nThe \"Stock Car Jr.\" third tier was created in 2006. It was intended for young and amateur drivers moving from Kart racing. In 2010 the category was replaced with the \"Mini Challenge Brasil\". After three seasons it was cancelled.\n\n\n\n\nAll champions are Brazilian-registered.\nRaces are held mostly on road courses, although a race was held on a street circuit in Salvador for the first time in 2009. The tracks for the 2013 season are:\n\nFormer circuits include:\n\nThere have been five fatal accidents:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15762142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15762142", "title": "Stop light party", "text": "Stop light party\n\nA stop light party, stoplight party, traffic light party or traffic party is a party at which guests wear different colors indicating their relationship-seeking status. While they are held anytime, anywhere, they are commonly held around Valentine's Day and in areas around Colleges and Universities. \n\nThe basic idea of the party is that the person enters the room and receives a bright color (light stick or glow necklace) or wears a color that best suits their status. Red if you are taken (stop), yellow if you are not sure (caution), green if you are single (go). \n\nUsually, the color green means that one is single and looking for a relationship. Red means that one is in a relationship, or not looking for one. Yellow may mean \"unsure\" or \"maybe,\" or could mean that one is in a relationship but still open to advances. The purpose of a stop light party is to decrease the apprehension associated with approaching potential mates at parties. It also serves the purpose of providing an easy indicator of one's unavailability, to fend off unwelcome advances. The color codes derive from the traffic light signal colors indicating red for stop, yellow for caution/slow down, and green for go. \n\nThe earliest documented examples of a Stoplight or Traffic Party held in the public setting can be traced back to the late 90's and the college town of Albany in upstate New York, where a promoter named Bill Kennedy was throwing them in nightlife venues across the city. The party would gain in popularity after a large nightclub named Sneaky Pete's opened in the winter of 2000. Kennedy would give out glow necklaces and had a large decommissioned traffic light lit up at every party. After years of creating a local buzz the party received national attention in 2005 after the Times Union newspaper in Albany, NY ran a feature story about it. The Associated Press (AP) picked up on the story and it ran nationally on the front page of papers across America. Internet dating site Match.com ran a feature story and after that and the party went “viral.\" It has been thrown in venues across the world since receiving extensive media coverage. Bill Kennedy has been interviewed about the popularity of the Stoplight Parties in countless trade publications like Nightclub & Bar Magazine. Kennedy is still working in the nightlife business and is currently based out of Las Vegas, NV. \n"}
{"id": "21409513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21409513", "title": "Summerlicious and Winterlicious", "text": "Summerlicious and Winterlicious\n\nSummerlicious and Winterlicious are two food festivals that are held each year in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Winterlicious runs during the first two weeks of February, typically one of the poorest times of the year in terms of restaurant attendance. Summerlicious occurs at the start of July, also a slow time for restaurants. During the events major restaurants from across the city offer a limited menu of prix fixe dinners at a discount from typical prices. Currently the prices are $23, $28 or $33 for lunch and $33, $43 or $53 for dinner, with drinks and gratuity extra. Originally when the festival started, lunches were $15, $20, $25, while dinners were $25, $35, $45.\n\nThe promotion originally began in 2003 with 35 restaurants participating. Based on similar events in other cities it was designed to boost the restaurant trade at a slow time of the year. It was further promoted as part of the efforts to help Toronto recover from the tourism decline that followed the SARS epidemic in 2003. The event has since grown rapidly, becoming a popular semiannual event. In 2009, 150 restaurants were invited to participate in Winterlicious.\n\nThe event is run by the special events department of the city, and the city selects which restaurants are allowed to participate. There are several rules for becoming a participating restaurant, including certain price standards, a clean health inspection record, and good reviews from prominent Toronto restaurant review guides. It is also closed to chains. There is considerable demand to be included in Winterlicious. While the prices are discounted, participating restaurants see three to four times as much business. Non-participating restaurants are also correspondingly hurt during the event. Final invitations are at discretion of the city, which has been accused of choosing the largest and most prominent of the city's dining locations at the expense of smaller local ones. A number of other restaurants offer similar prix fixe combinations without participating in the promotion, but use different (though often similar) names to avoid infringement of the city's official marks.\n\nDespite the large number of attendees and the stiff competition for restaurants to be included, the event is also regularly criticized. Customers complain about smaller food portions and lower ingredient quality. Restaurant workers complain about being overworked and forced to deal with over large numbers of uneducated diners.\n\nEven with these criticisms, the licious promotions remain a very popular program and provide an opportunity for restaurants to make money during a typically otherwise slow time of the year. In Winterlicious 2009, 180,000 meals were served over 2 weeks, resulting in $12 million in economic impact for the City of Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "3800748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3800748", "title": "The Dorcons", "text": "The Dorcons\n\n\"The Dorcons\" is the twenty-fourth episode of the second season of \"Space: 1999\" (and the forty-eighth and final overall episode of the programme). The screenplay was written by Johnny Byrne; the director was Tom Clegg. Original titles were \"Last of the Psychons\" and \"Return of the Dorcons\". The final shooting script is dated 17 November 1976. Live-action filming took place Tuesday 7 December 1976 through Thursday 23 December 1976.\n\nIt is 2409 days after leaving Earth orbit, and is tracking an unidentified powered object following the Moon. Sensors detect no life forms and the craft is emitting an energy field highly sensitive to matter. The Alphans conclude the object to be a robot survey device. The object continues to close, the energy field making contact with the Moon surface. The instruments suddenly register a tremendous energy surge. As John Koenig orders defensive measures, the object projects a ray at Alpha that not only penetrates the defence screens, but underground into .\n\nAs the light-beam appears in the room, all personnel are immobilised...with the exception of . The ray's first action is to short-out the Main Computer input terminal. It then roams the room, briefly pausing on each person's face. When it encounters Maya, it focuses on her and the Psychon woman experiences horrible pain. With an agonised shriek, she collapses. Its goal achieved, the light disappears and the others are released from their paralysis.\n\nAs attempts to contact the now-inert survey device fail, technicians examining Computer discover damage to its data-bank. Helena Russell tends to the unconscious Maya. The doctor's preliminary diagnosis is shock due to neurological trauma. To everyone's relief, Maya soon comes to. She tells them the ray was a mind-probe; after singling her out, it intensified and almost tore her mind apart. Concerned, Koenig questions the doctor about the possibility of brain damage.\n\nSensors detect activity from the alien object—it is losing molecular cohesion, transforming into a gaseous mass of raw matter. As they watch, the mass expands and solidifies, becoming an impressive spacecraft. Maya is terrified at the sight of it, sobbing that the light was a Dorcon probe and that the ship is after \"her\". She explains the Dorcons are the most powerful race in this galaxy...and her people's most feared enemy. A scan of the vessel reveals a meson converter, a power system that can convert matter to energy, restructure it into any form and shift it through space instantaneously.\n\nMaya is correct. Aboard the Dorcon capital ship, a heated discussion over the best means to catch the Psychon is underway. In the presence of the Imperial Archon, supreme ruler of the Federated Worlds of Dorcon, His Excellency Malic—the Archon's unstable nephew and heir apparent—proposes an armed invasion of the alien base to capture her. The Archon's chief advisor, Consul Varda, disagrees, arguing the Psychon might be killed in such a campaign. Knowing Maya's death would suit his ambitious nephew's desire to ascend to the throne, the Archon supports Varda's recommendation to employ diplomatic methods.\n\nMaya relates that, with their technology, the Dorcons can control of all the forces of nature...except death. They have hunted her people for centuries as, through Psychons, they can achieve immortality. Her tale is interrupted by a signal from the Dorcon ship. It is Varda, presenting her credentials. Koenig is angered by the attack on Maya and the Dorcon woman offers a gracious apology. Varda officially requests, in the name of the Imperial Archon, that Maya be delivered into her custody. Koenig declines, but a hysterical Maya warns him \"Resistance is futile.\" Varda's final words are to heed the Psychon—Koenig may be willing to die for his principles, but is everyone on Alpha equally inclined?\n\nAlpha is at red alert. Combat Eagles rise on the launch pads, laser batteries are deployed, non-combatants move to underground shelters and security forces guard the airlock stations. As they wait, Koenig asks Maya to explain how her people provide Dorcons with immortality. She informs him Dorcons do not die in the manner of most humanoid races: their brain-stems cease to function at an advanced age. They discovered Psychons possess brain-stems with regenerative properties that can last forever. \"If a Psychon brain-stem is surgically grafted to a Dorcon brain, the result is virtual immortality.\"\n\nOn the Dorcon ship, Malic and Varda bicker over her failure. Outraged, the Archon silences them, then orders Varda to obtain the Psychon at any cost. The Dorcon crew selects targets for the assault and, with reluctance, Varda gives the order to fire. A fusillade of energy bolts lay waste to perimeter buildings of the Alpha installation. Alpha's main batteries return fire, but the laser beams bounce off the Dorcon ship's hull. The next Dorcon volley destroys the gun emplacements. Alan Carter's combat Eagle group lifts-off and converges on the alien battlewagon. Their weapons are also ineffective and they withdraw, though not before Eagle Four is picked off by Dorcon fire.\n\nAs the bombardment continues, two hysterical operatives demand Koenig turn over Maya, one threatening him with a . The man is disarmed, but a desperate Maya pleads with Helena to use the weapon to kill her—if taken, the surgery will leave her nothing more than a living husk. The doctor briefly considers euthanising Maya, but is unable to fire and passes the gun to Koenig. Pressing it to Maya's temple, he contacts Varda. Unless the attack is cancelled immediately, he will kill the last of the Psychons. Varda cannot risk calling his bluff and ceases fire.\n\nMoving fast, the Dorcons activate the meson converter. Varda and her personal guard transport into Command Centre. When the Dorcon stormtroopers effortlessly subdue all resistance, Koenig is forced to surrender. Maya is nowhere in sight (having disguised herself in the form of a co-worker) and Varda resorts to using the mind-probe ray to flush her out. They take the metamorph into custody and depart. Koenig leaps into the still-active transporter beam, arrives on the ship and is stunned on sight. The Archon is on hand to congratulate Varda on the success of her mission. He orders Maya taken to the medical unit, where she is placed under a paralysing beam while the Imperial surgeon prepares for the brain-stem transfer.\n\nThe Archon orders Koenig killed, but a guilty Varda persuades the ruler to spare his life. As the Archon withdraws, the Commander is secured in a force-field until the meson converter's antimatter coils recharge; the attack has temporarily drained its power. Malic approaches Varda with a sly proposal: allow his uncle to die and, when he is named Archon, she may have anything she desires. The Consul's reply is blunt. The Archon fosters peace and stability, while Malic's ambitions will plunge the empire into war and misery. Now that Malic has shown his treasonous intent, she bars him from the Archon's presence.\n\nReturning to the operations area, she finds Koenig conscious and hostile. Varda reasons the security of thousands of worlds outweighs the life of one Psychon. He asks if this justification is for his benefit—or her own? The medical officer interrupts, stating she is ready for surgery. Varda leaves, ordering Koenig be transported when the converter is recharged. He resists and makes a break for the door—to be stopped by an armed Malic. Koenig is amazed when the Dorcon aristocrat shoots his own men, more so when he allows the Commander to go free. Once Koenig is out of sight, the scheming youth raises the alarm.\n\nUnaware of this intrigue, Varda escorts the Archon to the surgical transfer unit. Looking down at Maya, he reflects on who is the greater victim: she, destined to living death, or he, to eternal life. Unfamiliar with the layout of the vast Dorcon ship, Koenig has difficulty evading the stormtroopers. When the Commander is finally cornered, Malic again appears to gun down his own soldier. Koenig is suspicious, but Malic taunts him with Maya's impending fate and directs him to the surgical area. Malic then contacts Varda, telling her the escaped alien commander has gone berserk, killing multiple soldiers in his search for her. Varda leaves the Archon unattended to lead the hunt for Koenig...just as Malic planned.\n\nKoenig's trail is soon picked up by Varda and her troops. When trapped in a blind alley with pursuers just around the corner, he pulls open a grille and hides in a ventilation duct. He realises the ducts will make travelling easier and he crawls off in search of Maya. Malic, meanwhile, enters the surgical unit and guns down the medical officer. After waking his uncle to gloat on the end of his reign, he activates a surgical instrument that projects an intense energy beam on the Archon's forehead. The sociopathic youth enjoys watching his uncle beg for mercy as the beam slowly fries his brain.\n\nAfter the Archon expires, Malic releases Maya from her paralysis (intending to hide her until he can make use of her himself). Just then, Koenig jumps out of the air vent; in the ensuing scuffle, Maya into a lizard beast to subdue Malic. After they leave in search of the transporter, the Dorcon heir recovers and announces the death of the Archon. As the new Archon, he orders the human murderer to be killed on sight—but his Psychon accomplice must be captured alive. He removes the badge of office from his uncle and places the medallion around his own neck, mocking the corpse with a sarcastic salute.\n\nArriving at the operations room, the Alphans are confronted by a vengeful Varda. She pledges to kill not only them, but everyone on Alpha for their heinous crime. Malic enters to observe the execution. Koenig identifies the real murderer—the new Archon, who decoyed Varda away so he could assassinate their leader. As the truth dawns on Varda, Malic orders the Consul placed under arrest. An enraged Varda attacks the youth, who shoots her. Her dying move is to fire her own weapon at the meson converter, intentionally damaging the magnetic shield to expose the antimatter coils.\n\nWith the ship disintegrating around them, the Alphans jump into the transporter beam and return home. The insane Malic hysterically shouts for the converter to obey its Archon as the ship blows apart with a blast that seems to set space itself ablaze. On Alpha, repairs are well in hand and all casualties off the critical list. Resting after their ordeal, Koenig reflects that, all things considered, Consul Varda was quite a woman. Helena suggests taking care of Koenig's bandaged hands, and he asks if they should do that in his quarters or hers. She seductively says \"medical center\" and the two share a gentle laugh. Tony Verdeschi jokingly asks Maya if there is anything else in her Psychon past they should know about. With an air of mock pretension, she replies that is a highly improper question to ask any lady.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe score was re-edited from previous \"Space: 1999\" incidental music tracks composed for the second season by Derek Wadsworth and draws primarily from the scores of \"The Metamorph\" and \"\".\n\n\nThe episode was adapted in the sixth Year Two \"Space: 1999\" novel \"The Edge of the Infinite\" by Michael Butterworth published in 1977. This novel was not released in the United Kingdom and only as a limited edition in the United States and Germany. The adaptation was based on the earlier version \"Return of the Dorcons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5648156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5648156", "title": "Tokio Jokio", "text": "Tokio Jokio\n\nTokio Jokio is a 1943 \"Looney Tunes\" short directed by Norman McCabe (\"Cpl.\" was added after the film finished production, as McCabe was drafted into the Armed Forces before its release). It is a propaganda film made during World War II mocking Japan in the style of a supposed Japanese film journal broadcast. Mel Blanc supplied all the voices. As with most of the \"Looney Tunes\" shorts produced during World War II, the film consists of a series of rapid-fire, short gag vignettes.\n\nThe cartoon begins with a voiceover saying that a film captured from the Japanese, a typical example of vicious \"Japanazi\" propaganda, is now about to be released publicly. \n\nThe first segment is \"Civilian Defense\". The voiceover proudly presents the Japanese air raid siren system, which turns out to be two men wearing horos taking turns in pricking each other in the buttocks with a needle. Then a listening post is shown, which is literally a pole with key holes in it, and an aircraft spotter, which is literally someone painting spots on a plane. The camera then moves to the fire prevention headquarters which has burned down to the ground.\n\nThen a lesson about incendiary bombs is given. The text states that one should never approach incendiary bombs for the first five seconds. A small Japanese man with an umbrella appears, reads the text, checks his watch (which is decorated with Nazi swastikas) to count the seconds and then roasts a sausage above the dynamite stick. Then he explodes; emerging from the blast, he is headless, but his glasses and hat are still in the same place. The figure then says \"Oh, rosing face, prease! Rosing face!\" as a pun on the Asian concept of \"losing face\" or shaming oneself in public.\n\nThe second segment is \"Kitchen Hints\", which stars General Hideki Tojo as a cook. Tojo explains how a delicious Japanese club sandwich is made: a bread ration card is sliced in two, a piece of a meat ration card is put in between, then it is eaten and afterwards Tojo hits himself over the head with a club.\n\nThe third segment is a style show which shows the new Japanese victory suit: no cuffs, no pleats, no lapel and ... no suit! A small Japanese person is shown at this conclusion, shivering in a cloth diaper in the snow, while trying to warm himself to a candle.\n\nThen Red Toga-san (a pun on sport journalist Red Torgeson) brings us the highlights of today's Japanese sports, while talking out of an iris. Suddenly the iris fades out and his false teeth get stuck in the circle, before clattering to the ground. The Japanese \"king of swat\", his head shaped exactly like his trophy, is shown in his baseball outfit. Suddenly he spots a fly, which he tries to kill with a fly swatter, but misses and spins around in a circle. The fly grabs the swatter and clobbers him down. Afterwards it takes his trophy and flies away.\n\nThe fifth segment shows \"Headline Poisonalities\" (combination of \"poison\" and \"personalities\") who made headlines that week. A skull is seen in the title which changes into the face of Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto sitting at his desk. He introduces himself and then leaves his desk, while walking on stilts to look bigger. He tells the audience that he \"will dictate peace term in the White House\". An editor's note covers the screen which is written: \"Editor's Note: this is the room reserved for Admiral Yamamoto\". When the card is removed an electric chair room with an active electric chair is shown and Chopin's funeral march is quoted. (By the time the film was released, Yamamoto had been killed when the plane carrying him was shot down over the Solomon Islands by an American fighter squadron.)\n\nThe sixth segment is shown featuring General Masaharu Homma demonstrating, according to the voice-over, \"coolness and calmness of Japanese Officer during air raid\". Homma, however, does exactly the opposite and runs around in panic before ducking into a hallowed tree log. When he sticks his head out of the log, a skunk does the same. Disgusted by the smell of the Japanese, he ducks and reappears with a gas mask on his head. \n\n\"Flashes from the Axis\" is the next (seventh) segment. Berlin, Germany: a monocled anthropomorphic donkey identified by a sign on his desk reading \"Lord Hee Haw - Chief Wind Bag\" (a caricature of the American-British radio broadcaster and Nazi collaborator \"Lord Haw Haw\", or possibly of Fred W. Kaltenbach), brays loudly before announcing into a microphone that \"the Führer had just received a postcard from a friend vacationing abroad\". A hand is shown holding the postcard which reads: \"Wish you were here\" and then turns the card around to see the picture. It depicts Rudolf Hess in a prison camp (Hess had flown to Great Britain in 1941 and landed there by parachute to negotiate with the Allied Forces; he was arrested immediately). Adolf Hitler looks up in amazement and wiggles his nose. Rome, Italy: shots shown of the \"celebrated\" ruins of Ancient Rome and then cuts to Benito Mussolini sitting on a modern Roman ruin while playing with a yo-yo, titled \"Ruin #1\".\n\nThe next (eighth) segment focuses on the Japanese navy achievements. A large submarine is shown \"three weeks ahead of schedule\", according to the voiceover. Indeed, they are still working on it while it moves under water. After this, a group of Japanese submarine sailors are shown using \"intricate and technical machinery,\" which are actually pinball machines, slot machines and a peep show machine.\n\nThe ninth segment shows a Japanese sailor piloting a Kaiten human torpedo on a dangerous mission. The voiceover tells us that the pilot does not care about the danger, but when he asks him if he has anything to say the pilot exclaims: \"No, nothing, except...RET (LET) ME OUT OF HERE!\", apparently stuck in the torpedo.\n\nThe tenth (and final) segment includes scenes that are again literal interpretations of certain marine boats and air force planes. A plane is shot into the air with a large catapult, a Zero fighter aircraft is shown with a tricycle landing gear (actually a small man riding a tricycle attached to the plane), an aircraft carrier is presented (which carries remains of crashed planes) and a mine sweeper (a boat with two mechanical hands operating a broom to sweep mines away). When this ship accidentally explodes, a buoy is dropped in the sea with the note: \"Regrettable incident please\".\n\nThe cartoon was intended as an American propaganda film against Japan while the two countries were at war. The depiction of the Japanese would generally be considered racist by today's standards. All the Japanese are shown wearing big glasses, having buck teeth and grinning and rubbing their hands in a very sinister way. Their stereotypical politeness is mocked by their continuous use of the words: \"please\", \"regrettable\" and \"honorable\". Also, their language is spoofed by adding many \"Ooo's\" at the start of every sentence and replacing the letter \"l\" with the letter \"r\" and vice versa.\n\nFurthermore, the Japanese are represented as being incompetent, weak, cowardly, and primitive. Some were completely false: Japanese were more than competent baseball players, allowing for the eventual rise of Nippon Professional Baseball and the creation of a posting system several decades later that allowed Major League Baseball teams to buy the rights to Japanese players from their home clubs. Although the jokes are generally aimed at Japan, the cartoon also pokes fun at Lord Haw Haw, Rudolf Hess, Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini.\n\nAs with many of the World War II cartoons in America, Tokio Jokio hasn't aired on any network, syndicated, or cable channel due to its offensive content of ethnic and racial stereotyping of Nazi propaganda and Japanese people. However, the Cartoon Network animation history show \"ToonHeads\" once showed clips of this cartoon during a special episode about World War II-era cartoons, with a voiceover explaining that the cartoon, like many others at the time, had very cruel depictions of the Japanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "21114685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21114685", "title": "Travels with Jack Lemmon's Dog", "text": "Travels with Jack Lemmon's Dog\n\nTravels with Jack Lemmon's Dog is a play by Chambers Stevens. The comedy follows the real life account of two men taking actor Jack Lemmon's black poodle from California to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, where the owner of the dog, Jack Lemmon, is working. With workshops in North Hollywood, California, it premiered at the North Star Theatre in New Orleans in October 2001. The original cast includes Dan Burkarth, Ladson Deyne, and Linda DiLeo, with Lori Bennett as director.\n"}
{"id": "8914959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8914959", "title": "When You See Me You Know Me", "text": "When You See Me You Know Me\n\nWhen You See Me You Know Me is an early Jacobean history play about Henry VIII, written by Samuel Rowley and first published in 1605.\n\nThe play was acted by Prince Henry's Men, the company to which Rowley belonged through most of his acting career, and premiered most likely in 1604 at the Fortune Theatre. The play was entered into the Stationers' Register on 12 Feb. 1605; the quarto that followed was published by the bookseller Nathaniel Butter.\n\nRowley's play has been cited as a \"probable source\" for Shakespeare's and Fletcher's \"Henry VIII\". The second quarto edition of \"When You See Me\" was issued in 1613, the year in which \"Henry VIII\" was performed. Subsequent quartos of \"When You See Me\" appeared in 1621 and 1632.\n\nInevitably, Rowley had to take a selective approach to the vast subject of Henry VIII's biography; he chose to emphasize the King's conflict with Cardinal Wolsey and the birth and early education of Edward VI. Rowley's approach is loose and broadly synthetic: the events depicted in the play actually spread over three decades (1514–44); Wolsey is still alive at the end of the play, though he should have been long dead. The young Edward is depicted as an incipient hero of Protestantism, defending his sister Elizabeth and Thomas Cranmer when they are accused of treason.\n\nRowley also shows the King going out in disguise to mingle with his subjects, as in the legends surrounding Harun al-Rashid and similar figures. Henry is even shown getting into brawls and being arrested. Comic relief is provided by scenes of the King with his jester Will Summers.\n\nScholars have noted links between \"When You See Me\" and the \"B text\" or 1616 version of Marlowe's \"Doctor Faustus\". The Diary of Philip Henslowe records a payment to Rowley for additions to Marlowe's play in Nov. 1602. The common features between \"When You See Me\" and \"Faustus\" have been employed in an effort to trace Rowley's contribution to the B text.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8412128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8412128", "title": "World Diamond Congress", "text": "World Diamond Congress\n\nThe World Diamond Congress is a bi-annual industry event organized by World Federation of Diamond Bourses and the International Diamond Manufacturers Association. The first World Diamond Congress was held in Antwerpen, Belgium in 1947. It was held annually till 1956 and since then - every two years. Every year in between the World Federation of Diamond Bourses and the International Diamond Manufacturers Association hold their Presidents' Meeting. Last 36th Congress was held in 2014 in Antwerpen, Belgium. Next, 37th Congress will take place in Dubai in May 2016.\n\nPrevious Congresses:\n\n\n"}
