{"id": "1303910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1303910", "title": "1890 Manifesto", "text": "1890 Manifesto\n\nThe \"1890 Manifesto\" (also known as the \"Woodruff Manifesto\" or the \"Anti-polygamy Manifesto\") is a statement which officially advised against any future plural marriage in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Issued by church president Wilford Woodruff in September 1890, the Manifesto was a response to mounting anti-polygamy pressure from the United States Congress, which by 1890 had disincorporated the church, escheated its assets to the U.S. federal government, and imprisoned many prominent polygamist Mormons. Upon its issuance, the LDS Church in conference accepted Woodruff's Manifesto as \"authoritative and binding.\"\n\nThe Manifesto was a dramatic turning point in the history of the LDS Church. It advised against church members from entering into any marriage prohibited by the law of the land, and made it possible for Utah to become a U.S. state. Nevertheless, even after the Manifesto, the church quietly continued to perform a small number of plural marriages in the United States, Mexico, and Canada, thus necessitating a Second Manifesto during U.S. congressional hearings in 1904. Though neither Manifesto dissolved existing plural marriages, plural marriage in the LDS Church gradually died by attrition during the early 1900s. The Manifesto was canonized in the LDS Church standard works as Official Declaration 1 and is considered by mainstream Mormons to have been prompted by divine revelation (although not a revelation itself), in which Woodruff was shown that the church would be thrown into turmoil if they did not comply with it. Some Mormon fundamentalists dispute that Woodruff received any such revelation.\n\nThe Manifesto was issued in response to the anti-polygamy policies of the federal government of the United States, and most especially the Edmunds–Tucker Act of 1887. This law disincorporated the LDS Church and authorized the federal government to seize all of the church’s assets. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the provisions of the Edmunds–Tucker Act in \"Late Corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints v. United States\" in May 1890.\n\nIn April 1889, Woodruff, then president of the church, began privately refusing the permission that was required to contract new plural marriages. In October 1889, Woodruff publicly admitted that he was no longer approving new polygamous marriages, and in answer to a reporter's question of what the LDS Church's attitude was toward the law against polygamy, Woodruff stated, \"we mean to obey it. We have no thought of evading it or ignoring it.\" Because it had been Mormon practice for over 25 years to either evade or ignore anti-polygamy laws, Woodruff's statement was a signal that a change in church policy was developing.\n\nIn February 1890, the Supreme Court had already ruled in \"Davis v. Beason\" that a law in Idaho Territory which disenfranchised individuals who practiced or believed in plural marriage was constitutional. That decision left the Mormons no further legal recourse to their current marriage practices and made it unlikely that without change Utah Territory would be granted statehood.\n\nWoodruff later said that on the night of September 23, 1890, he received a revelation from Jesus Christ that the church should cease the practice of plural marriage. The following morning, he reported this to some of the general authorities and placed the hand-written draft on a table. George Reynolds would later recount that he, Charles W. Penrose, and John R. Winder modified Woodruff's draft into the current language accepted by the general authorities and presented to the church as a whole. Woodruff announced the Manifesto on September 25 by publishing it in the church-owned \"Deseret Weekly\" in Salt Lake City. On October 6, 1890, it was formally accepted by the church membership, though many held reservations or abstained from voting.\n\nUtah applied for statehood again in 1895, and it was granted on January 4, 1896. One of the conditions for granting Utah and other western territories statehood was that a ban on polygamy be written into the state constitution.\n\nThe Manifesto states:\nTo Whom It May Concern:\n\nPress dispatches having been sent for political purposes, from Salt Lake City, which have been widely published, to the effect that the Utah Commission, in their recent report to the Secretary of the Interior, allege that plural marriages have been contracted in Utah since last June or during the past year, also that in public discourses the leaders of the Church have taught, encouraged and urged the continuance of the practice of polygamy—\n\nI, therefore, as President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, do hereby, in the most solemn manner, declare that these charges are false. We are not teaching polygamy or plural marriage, nor permitting any person to enter into its practice, and I deny that either forty or any other number of plural marriages have during that period been solemnized in our Temples or in any other place in the Territory.\n\nOne case has been reported, in which the parties allege that the marriage was performed in the Endowment House, in Salt Lake City, in the Spring of 1889, but I have not been able to learn who performed the ceremony; whatever was done in this matter was without my knowledge. In consequence of this alleged occurrence the Endowment House was, by my instructions, taken down without delay.\n\nInasmuch as laws have been enacted by Congress forbidding plural marriages, which laws have been pronounced constitutional by the court of last resort, I heareby declare my intention to submit to those laws, to use my influence with the members of the Church over which I preside to have them do likewise.\n\nThere is nothing in my teachings to the Church or in those of my associates, during the time specified, which can be reasonably construed to inculcate or encourage polygamy; and when any Elder of the Church has used language which appeared to convey such teaching, he has been promptly reproved. And I now publicly declare that my advice to the Latter-day Saints is to refrain from contracting any marriage forbidden by the law of the land.\n\nWilford Woodruff [signed]\n\nPresident of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\nLess than a month after the Manifesto was issued, the LDS Church used the procedure of common consent to make it binding upon church members. At a general conference of the church in Salt Lake City on October 6, 1890, the Manifesto was read, after which Lorenzo Snow, the president of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, made the following motion:\n\nI move that, recognizing Wilford Woodruff as the President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and the only man on the earth at the present time who holds the keys of the sealing ordinances, we consider him fully authorized by virtue of his position to issue the Manifesto which has been read in our hearing, and which is dated September 1890, and that as a Church in General Conference assembled, we accept his declaration concerning plural marriages as authoritative and binding.\n\nThe conference proceedings recorded that \"the vote to sustain the foregoing motion was unanimous.\" However, a modern author reports that \"at least some voted against the Manifesto and perhaps a majority abstained\". Some members, including apostle Moses Thatcher, only reluctantly supported the Manifesto and interpreted it as a sign that the Second Coming of Jesus was imminent, after which plural marriage would be reinstated.\n\nThe Manifesto was the end of official church authorization for the creation of new plural marriages that violated local laws. It had no effect on the status of already existing plural marriages, and plural marriages continued to be performed in locations where it was believed to be legal. As Woodruff explained at the general conference where the Manifesto was accepted by the church, \"[t]his Manifesto only refers to future marriages, and does not affect past conditions. I did not, I could not, and would not promise that you would desert your wives and children. This you cannot do in honor.\" Despite Woodruff's explanation, some church leaders and members who were polygamous did begin to live with only one wife. However, the majority of Mormon polygamists continued to cohabit with their plural wives in violation of the Edmunds Act.\n\nWithin six years of the announcement of the Manifesto, Utah had become a state and federal prosecution of Mormon polygamists subsided. However, Congress still refused to seat representatives-elect who were polygamists, including B. H. Roberts.\n\nD. Michael Quinn and other Mormon historians have documented that some church apostles covertly sanctioned plural marriages after the Manifesto. This practice was especially prevalent in Mexico and Canada because of an erroneous belief that such marriages were legal in those jurisdictions. However, a significant minority were performed in Utah and other western American states and territories. The estimates of the number of post-Manifesto plural marriages performed range from scores to thousands, with the actual figure probably close to 250. Today, the LDS Church officially acknowledges that although the Manifesto \"officially ceased\" the practice of plural marriage in the church, \"the ending of the practice after the Manifesto was ... gradual.\"\n\nRumors of post-Manifesto marriages surfaced and began to be examined by Congress in the Reed Smoot hearings. In response, church president Joseph F. Smith issued a \"Second Manifesto\" in 1904 which reaffirmed the church's opposition to the creation of new plural marriages and threatened excommunication for Latter-day Saints who continued to enter into or solemnize new plural marriages. Apostles John W. Taylor and Matthias F. Cowley both resigned from the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles due to disagreement with the church's position on plural marriage. Plural marriage in violation of local law continues to be grounds for excommunication from the LDS Church.\n\nThe cessation of plural marriage within LDS Church gave rise to the Mormon fundamentalist movement.\n\nThe Manifesto has been canonized by the LDS Church, and its text appears in the Doctrine and Covenants, one of the church's books of scripture. However, when the Manifesto was issued, it was not apparent that Woodruff or the other leaders of the LDS Church viewed it as the result of a divine revelation. Approximately one year after he declared the Manifesto, Woodruff began to claim that he had received instructions from Jesus Christ that formed the basis of what he wrote in the text of the Manifesto. These instructions were reportedly accompanied by a vision of what would occur if the Manifesto were not issued.\n\nFollowing Woodruff's death in 1898, other church leaders began to teach that the Manifesto was the result of a revelation of God. Since that time, church leaders have consistently taught that the Manifesto was inspired of God. In 1908, the Manifesto was printed in the LDS Church's Doctrine and Covenants for the first time, and it has been included in every edition since. A non-Mormon observer of the church has stated that \"[t]here is no question that, from a doctrinal standpoint, President Woodruff's Manifesto now has comparable status with [Joseph Smith's] revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants\". Similarly, another writer has stated bluntly that \"contemporary Latter-day Saints regard the Manifesto as a revelation\". The Manifesto is currently published as \"Official Declaration 1\" in the Doctrine and Covenants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "404106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404106", "title": "Antarctic toothfish", "text": "Antarctic toothfish\n\nDissostichus mawsoni, the Antarctic toothfish, is a species of cod icefish native to the Southern Ocean. It is often mistakenly referred to as an Antarctic cod, consistent with the misnaming of other notothenioid Antarctic fish as rock cods. However, notothenioid fishes are unrelated to cods, which are in another taxonomic order, the Gadiformes. The generic name \"Dissostichus\" is from the Greek \"dissos\" (twofold) and \"stichus\" (line) and refers to the presence of two long lateral lines, which are very important to the species’ ecology. The common name \"toothfish\" refers to the presence of biserial dentition in the upper jaw, thought to give it a shark-like appearance. The habitat of the Antarctic toothfish is in subzero degree water below latitude 60°S.\n\nFully grown, these fish (and their warmer-water relative, the Patagonian toothfish, \"D. eleginoides\") can grow to more than in length and 135 kg in weight, twice as large as the next largest Antarctic fish. Being large, and consistent with the unstructured food webs of the ocean (i.e., big fish eat little fish regardless of identity, even eating their own offspring), the Antarctic toothfish has been characterized as a voracious predator. Furthermore, by being by far the largest midwater fish in the Southern Ocean, it is thought to fill the ecological role that sharks play in other oceans. Aiding in that role, the Antarctic toothfish is one of only five notothenioid species that, as adults, are neutrally buoyant. This buoyancy is attained at 100–120 cm in length and enables them to spend time above the bottom without expending extra energy. Both bottom-dwelling and mid-water prey are therefore available to them. Most other notothenioid fish and the majority of all Antarctic fish, including smaller toothfish, are confined to the bottom. Coloring is black to olive brown, sometimes lighter on the undersides, with a mottled pattern on body and fins. Small fish blend in very well among the benthic sponges and corals. They have a broad head, an elongated body, long dorsal and anal fins, large pectoral fins and a rudder-like caudal fin. They typically move slowly, but are capable of speed bursts that can elude predatory seals.\n\nOver the continental shelf, Antarctic toothfish feed on shrimp (\"Nauticaris\" spp.) and small fish, principally another neutrally buoyant nototheniid, the Antarctic silverfish (\"Pleuragramma antarcticum\"). This loosely schooling species is also a major prey of Adélie (\"Pygoscelis adeliae\") and emperor penguins (\"Aptenodytes forsteri\"), Weddell seals (\"Leptonychotes weddellii\") and Antarctic minke whales (\"Balaenoptera bonaerensis\"). Therefore, competition for prey among toothfish and these other mesopredators (middle trophic level predators) could be very important. The large Antarctic toothfish are eaten by sperm whales (\"Physeter macrocephalus\"), killer whales (\"Orcinus orca\"), Weddell seals and possibly colossal squid (\"Mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni\"). Toothfish that are dwelling on the bottom, particularly those caught during the summer on the continental slope, eat mainly grenadiers (Macrouridae) but also feed on other smaller fish species and skates (\"Raja\" spp.). Antarctic toothfish have been caught to depths of 2200m, though based on commercial fishing effort, few occur that deep.\n\nAging data indicate Antarctic toothfish are relatively fast-growing when young, but then growth slows later in life. They reach about one-third of maximum size after five years, and half maximum by 10 years, after which growth slows considerably. To grow fast when small is an adaptation of most predatory fish, e.g., sharks, so as not to be small for very long. The maximum age recorded so far has been 48 years. Antarctic toothfish take a long time to mature (13 years for males, 17 years for females) and once mature may not spawn every year, though the actual spawning interval is unknown. Only a few Antarctic toothfish with mature eggs have ever been caught, meaning knowledge is sparse about fecundity. They spawn sometime during winter. Large, mature, older fish have been caught among the seamounts of the Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, a location thus thought to be important for spawning. Smaller, subadult Antarctic toothfish tend to concentrate in shallower waters on the continental shelf, while a large portion of the older fish are found on in the continental slope. This sequestering by size and age could be another adaptation for small fish to avoid being eaten by large ones. The recruitment potential of Antarctic toothfish, a measure of both fecundity and survival to spawning age, is not known.\n\nThe Antarctic toothfish has a lightweight, partially cartilaginous skeleton, lacks a swim bladder, and has fatty deposits which act as a stored energy source, particularly during spawning. This fat also makes large toothfish neutrally buoyant. Many toothfish caught over the seamounts are very depleted of fat, and this is thought perhaps to be related to spawning and spawning migration, which are energy-demanding activities. It is not known what happens to these fat-depleted fish, including whether they reach, or how long it takes them to reach, breeding condition again; this ostensibly occurs upon returning to continental slope waters. Antarctic toothfish have vision and lateral line systems well adapted to find prey in low light levels. Since ice covers the surface of the ocean where Antarctic toothfish occur even in summer, these sensory specializations likely evolved to enable survival in the reduced light levels found under ice and in the Antarctic winter, as well as at deep depths. Antarctic toothfish also have a very well developed sense of smell, which is why they are easily caught by baited hooks and also scavenge the remains of penguins killed by other predators.\n\nThe Antarctic toothfish is noteworthy, like most other Antarctic notothenioids, for producing antifreeze glycoproteins, a feature not seen in its closest relative, the Patagonian toothfish, which typically inhabits slightly warmer waters. The presence of antifreeze glycroproteins allows the Antarctic toothfish (and other notothenioids) to thrive in sub-zero waters of the Southern Ocean surrounding Antarctica. The Antarctic toothfish's voracious appetite also is important in coping with cold water. It is mainly caught in the Ross Sea in the austral summer, but has also been recorded from Antarctic coastal waters south of the Indian Ocean sector, in the vicinity of the Antarctic Peninsula, and near the South Sandwich Islands.\n\nA fishery for Antarctic toothfish, managed by the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR), has existed since 1997. The existence of this fishery in the Ross Sea, the area where most Antarctic toothfish are caught, is very contentious - the main argument proposed for this being the lack of accurate population parameters, such as original stock size, fecundity, and recruitment. Moreover, the main fishing grounds is presumed by some researchers to cover the area through which the entire stock of Antarctic toothfish pass. Typically the fishing season has finished in the area by the end of February and for the remainder of the year much of the area is covered by sea-ice providing a natural impediment to fishing. This fishery is characterised by opponents as being a challenge to manage owing to the nature of benthic longline fishing. The bycatch of other fish can also be significant, with the ratio to tonnes of toothfish caught ranging from 4.5% to 17.9% and averaging 9.3% from the 1999/2000 fishing season to 2013/14 in CCAMLR Subarea 88.1 when the toothfish catch first exceeded 50 tonnes and from 2.3% to 24.5% averaging 12.4% in CCAMLR Subarea 88.2 up to the latest publicly available figure from 2013/14. The bycatch of other fish species is also regulated to a maximum amount annually by CCAMLR. CCAMLR decision rules are based on determining the catch level that will ensure that the median estimated spawning stock biomass (not total biomass) is greater than or equal to 50% of the average pre-exploitation spawning biomass after a further 35 years of fishing (i.e. 35 years from each year of assessment), with the additional condition that there is less than a 10% probability that the spawning biomass will decline below 20% of the pre-exploitation level at any time during this period. Current spawning stock biomass for Antarctic toothfish in the Ross Sea Region is estimated to be at 75% of the pre-exploitation level (95% Bayesian probability interval 71–78%), well above the 50% target reference point.\n\nAn independent study was reported to have detected the disappearance of large fish at the southern periphery of its range in the McMurdo Sound area and was postulated to be consistent with this apparent loss of large fish. However more recent work has shown this was not to be the case in 2014. Some studies have reported that the prevalence of fish-eating killer whales has been apparently decreasing in the southern Ross Sea, foraging efficiency of Weddell seals is decreasing, and numbers of Adélie penguins (competitors for silverfish) have been increasing. More recent studies have confirmed visual sightings of Weddell seals and Type-C killer whales holding and consuming large toothfish in the McMurdo Sound area and raise questions over the previously assumed importance of assumed dominance of Antarctic silverfish (\"Pleuragramma antarcticum\") in the diet of Weddell seal and Type-C killer whales. These reports highlight the importance of managing this fishery in the best interests of the ecosystem by continuing to collect information on both Antarctic toothfish life history and the interaction of that species with predators and prey. An important research programme in this regard is the annual 'Shelf' survey carried out annually since 2012 which is designed to monitor the abundance of subadult Antarctic toothfish in areas where subadult-sized fish have been regularly found (e.g., in the southern Ross Sea) has been designed provide data to better estimate recruitment variability and provide an important early-warning signal of changes in toothfish recruitment. The project also is used for additional targeted data collection to better understand the life cycle and ecosystem role of Antarctic toothfish.\n\nRecent research provides evidence for long-distance migrations of Type-C killer whales between the Ross Sea and New Zealand waters, indicating a much wider range that had been postulated by a number of scientists. One adult female Type-C killer whale has been seen in both New Zealand waters and McMurdo Sound, Antarctica, and a high large proportion of Type-C killer whales sighted in McMurdo Sound have scars caused by cookiecutter sharks that are currently assumed to be limited to north of 50°S. At the same time as this study was occurring Italian whale experts at Terra Nova Bay, about 360 km north of Scott Base, deployed satellite transmitters on Type-C killer whales in to determine the whales' movements. Their results independently verified last month that type-C killer whales were commuting between Scott Base and the waters off Northland.\n\nThe total catch of Antarctic toothfish in 2013–14 was 3820 tonnes. 3,320 tonnes of this was taken from the Ross Sea (FAO Statistical Divisions 88.1 and 88.2) with the remainder taken from other high seas areas within the CCAMLR convention area.\n\nThe ecosystem approach to fishing is encapsulated in Article II of the CAMLR Convention. The ecosystem approach utilizes decision rules based on both population status targets and on limit reference points and incorporates uncertainty and ecosystem status in the calculation of these targets. Different reference points to account for the needs of dependent predators in the ecosystem are used depending on the location of the species in the food web. The ecosystem fisheries management approach by CCAMLR involves use of move-on rules to protect trophic interactions, and limit direct effects of fishing on fish bycatch, seabirds and Vulnerable Marine Ecosystems (VMEs). There are annually reviewed mitigation measures such as line weighting and streamer lines to minimize seabird bycatch which have resulted in a substantial reduction in accidental seabird mortalities in the CAMLR Convention Area. The 50% (target) and 20% (limit) reference points used by the CCAMLR decision rules exceed the requirements for target and limit reference points set by almost all national and international fisheries management organizations, even for species longer lived than toothfish. A wide study of many fisheries generally indicated that most reach maximum sustainable yield at 30–35% of their pre-exploitation abundances. CCAMLR uses a more conservative reference level to allow exploitation at a level where toothfish recruitment and the ecosystem in general is not appreciably impacted. This is required by Article II of the CAMLR Convention. A common misunderstanding of the CCAMLR decision rules is an assumption that the decline in population size will follow a clear trajectory from the starting year to a point 35 years later when the stock size will reach 50% of pre-exploitation levels and an assumption that there is no feedback during each assessment. The catch limit however is re-calculated based on all updated or revised data at each annual or biennial assessment. This approach is used to ensure that the 50% level will be approached slowly and enables an ongoing readjustment of catch levels as knowledge improves.\n\nCCAMLR imposes stringent environmental protection and bycatch mitigation measures to Antarctic toothfish fisheries, including:\n\nIncidental mortality of seabirds as a result of fishing has fallen to near-zero levels in the CCAMLR convention area. No mortality of seabirds or marine mammals was recorded as a result of fishing for Antarctic toothfish in 2011–12 and only two seabirds (Southern Giant Petrels Macronectes giganteus) have been killed as a result of fishing in the Ross Sea since 1996/97.\n\nCompliance measures adopted by CCAMLR apply to all Antarctic toothfish fisheries. These include:\n\nIn November 2010, the Marine Stewardship Council certified the Ross Sea Antarctic toothfish fishery as a sustainable and well-managed fishery. The certification is contentious, with many conservation groups protesting the certification due to the paucity of information needed to reliably manage the fishery, and that only eight of the nineteen vessels in the fishery during the latest year for which data are publicly available were certified. During the 2013–14 season vessels operating under the Marine Stewardship Certification landed 51.3% of all Antarctic toothfish from the Ross Sea Region (CCAMLR Subarea 88.1) and 64.7% of Antarctic toothfish from the Amundsen Sea sector (CCAMLR Subarea 88.2).\n\nThe argument that only a portion of Antarctic toothfish is certified, the high price it commands and the remote areas where a large proportion of the fish are caught have been advanced as an encouragement to illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing and mislabeling. A 2011 genetic study of MSC-labeled Antarctic toothfish found in markets revealed a significant proportion were not from the MSC-certified stock, and many were not toothfish at all. The MSC had conducted its own internal study which found no evidence of mislabelling. The MSC conducts an annual audit of the fishery which includes sampling of certified product.\n\nDue to the challenges that faced toothfish management in the 1990s and early 2000s (e.g., IUU fishing, mislabelling, and inadequate data for management), consumer seafood guides such as Seafood Watch placed toothfish of both species (Chilean seabass) on their red, or “avoid”, list; however, in light of up-to-date, internationally peer-reviewed scientific information, in April 2013, Seafood Watch upgraded the Ross Sea Antarctic toothfish fishery to a \"good alternative\". Following a comprehensive review in 2012 the Monterey Bay Aquarium revised its rating of Antarctic toothfish to 'good alternative'.\n\nGreenpeace International added the Antarctic toothfish to its seafood red list in 2010. This approach is at variance with the high score given the fishery when it was granted certification by the Marine Stewardship Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "3036868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3036868", "title": "Archival science", "text": "Archival science\n\nArchival science, or archival studies, is the study and theory of building and curating archives, which are collections of documents, recordings and data storage devices.\n\nTo build and curate an archive, one must acquire and evaluate recorded materials, and be able to access them later. To this end, archival science seeks to improve methods for appraising, storing, preserving, and cataloging recorded materials.\n\nAn archival record preserves data that is not intended to change. In order to be of value to society, archives must be trustworthy. Therefore, an archivist has a responsibility to authenticate archival materials, such as historical documents, and to ensure their reliability, integrity, and usability. Archival records must be what they claim to be; accurately represent the activity they were created for; present a coherent picture through an array of content; and be in usable condition in an accessible location.\n\nAn archive curator is called an \"archivist\"; the curation of an archive is called \"archive administration\".\n\nArchival science emerged from diplomatics, the critical analysis of documents.\n\nIn 1540, Jacob von Rammingen (1510-1582) wrote the manuscript of the earliest known archival manual. He was an expert on \"registries\" (\"Registraturen\"), the German word for what later became known as \"archives\".\n\nRammingen elaborated a registry for the Augsburg city council. However, since he could not attend the council meeting, he described the structure and management of the archives in writing. Although this is not the first work about archival science (Rammingen himself refers to earlier literature about record-keeping), earlier manuals were usually not published. Archival science had no formal beginning. Jacob von Rammingen's manual was printed in Heidelberg in 1571.\n\nTraditionally, archival science has involved the study of methods for preserving items in climate-controlled storage facilities. It is also the study of cataloguing and accession, of retrieval and safe handling. The advent of digital documents along with the development of electronic databases has caused the field to re-evaluate its means and ends. While generally associated with museums and libraries, the field also can pertain to individuals who maintain private collections or business archives. Archival Science is taught in colleges and universities, usually under the umbrella of Information Science or paired with a History program.\n\nA list of foundational thinkers in archival studies could include: American archivist Theodore Schellenberg and British archivist Sir Hilary Jenkinson. Some important archival thinkers of the past century include: Canadian archivist and scholar Terry Cook, South African archivist Verne Harris, Australian archival scholar Sue McKemmish, UCLA faculty and archival scholar Anne Gilliland, University of Michigan faculty and archival scholar Margaret Hedstrom, American archival scholar and University of Pittsburgh faculty member Richard Cox, Italian archival scholar and faculty at University of British Columbia Luciana Duranti, and American museum and archival scholar David Bearman.\n\nThere is no universal set of laws or standards that governs the form or mission of archival institutions. The forms, functions, and mandates of archival programs and institutions tend to differ based on geographical location and language, the nature of the society in which they exist and the objectives of those in control of the archives. Instead, the current standards that have been provided and are most widely followed, such as the ICA standard, ISO standard, and DIRKS standard, act as working guidelines for archives to follow and adapt in ways that would best suit their respective needs.\n\nFollowing the introduction of computer technology in archival repositories, beginning in the 1970s, archivists increasingly recognized the need to develop common standards for descriptive practice, in order to facilitate the dissemination of archival descriptive information. The standard developed by archivists in Canada, \"Rules for Archival Description\", also known as RAD, was first published in 1990. As a standard, RAD aims to provide archivists with a consistent and common foundation for the description of archival material within a \"fonds\", based on traditional archival principles. A comparable standard used in the United States is \"\", also known as DACS. These standards are in place to provide archivists with the tools for describing and making accessible archival material to the public.\n\nMetadata comprises contextual data pertaining to a record or aggregate of records. In order to compile metadata consistently, so as to enhance the discoverability of archival materials for users, as well as support the care and preservation of the materials by the archival institution, archivists look to standards appropriate to various kinds of metadata for different purposes, including administration, description, preservation, and digital storage and retrieval. For example, common standards used by archivists for structuring descriptive metadata, which conveys information such as the form, extent, and content of archival materials, include Machine-Readable Cataloguing (MARC format), Encoded Archival Description (EAD), and Dublin core.\n\nProvenance in archival science refers to the \"origin or source of something; information regarding the origins, custody, and ownership of an item or collection.\" As a fundamental principle of archives, provenance refers to the individual, family, or organization that created or received the items in a collection. In practice, provenance dictates that records of different origins should be kept separate to preserve their context. As a methodology, provenance becomes a means of describing records at the series level.\n\nDescribing records at the series level to ensure that records of different origins are kept separate, provided an alternative to item-level manuscript cataloguing. The practice of provenance has two major concepts: \"\"respect des fonds\",\" and \"original order.\" \"Respect des fonds\" rose from the conviction that records entering an archive have an essential connection to the person or office that generated and used them; archivists consider all the records originating with a particular administrative unit (whether former, or still existing) to be a separate archival grouping, or \"fonds\", and seek to preserve and describe the records accordingly, with close attention to evidence of how they were organized and maintained at the time they were created. \"Original order,\" refers to keeping records \"as nearly as possible in the same order of classification as obtained in the offices of origin,\" gives additional credibility to preserved records and to their originating \"fonds.\" Records must be kept in the same order they were placed in the course of the official activity of the agency concerned; records are not to be artificially reorganized. Records kept in their original order are more likely to reveal the nature of the organizations which created them, and more importantly, of the order of activities out of which they emerged.\n\nNot infrequently, practical considerations of storage mean that it is impossible to maintain the original order of records physically. In such cases, however, the original order should still be respected intellectually in the structure and arrangement of finding aids.\n\nFollowing the French Revolution, a newfound appreciation for historical records emerged in French society. Records began to \"acquir[e] the dignity of national monuments\", and their care was entrusted to scholars who were trained in libraries. The emphasis was on historical research, and it seemed obvious at the time that records should be arranged and catalogued in a manner that would \"facilitate every kind of scholarly use\". To support research, artificial systematic collections, often arranged by topic, were established and records were catalogued into these schemes. With archival documents approached from a librarianship perspective, records were organized according to classification schemes and their original context of creation were frequently lost or obscured. This form of archival arrangement has come to be known as the \"historical manuscripts tradition\".\n\nThe principle of \"respect des fonds\" and of \"original order\" was adopted in Belgium and France about 1840 and spread throughout Europe during the following decades. Following the rise of state-run archives in France and Prussia, the rising volume of modern records entering the archive made the adherence to the manuscript tradition impossible; there were not enough resources to organize and classify each record. Provenance received its most pointed expression in the \"Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives,\" a Dutch text published in 1898 and written by three Dutch archivists, Samuel Muller, Johan Feith, and Robert Fruin. This text provided the first description of the principle of provenance and argued that \"original order\" is an essential trait of archival arrangement and description.\n\nComplementing the work of the Dutch archivists and supporting the concept of provenance were the historians of the era. Though subject-based classification aided research, historians began to concern themselves with objectivity in their source material. For its advocates, provenance provided an objective alternative to the generally subjective classification schemes borrowed from librarianship. Historians increasingly felt that records should be maintained in their original order to better reflect the activity out of which they emerged.\n\nAlthough original order is a generally accepted principle, there has been some debate surrounding this theory in regards to personal archives. It has been argued that original order is not always ideal for personal archives as they are far more complex than organizational archives. However, others prefer to remain loyal to the principle of original order and maintain that personal records are created and maintained for much the same reason as organizational archives and should therefore follow the same principles.\n\nPreservation, as defined by the Society of American Archivists (SAA), is the act of protecting materials from physical deterioration or loss of information, ideally in a noninvasive way. The goal of preservation is to maintain as much originality as possible while maintaining all the information which the material has to offer. Both scientific principles and professional practices are applied to this technique to obtain maximum effectiveness. In an archival sense, preservation refers to the care of all the aggregates within a collection. Conservation can be included in this practice and often these two definitions overlap.\n\nPreservation emerged with the establishment of the first central archives. In 1789, during the French Revolution, the Archives Nationales was established and later, in 1794, transformed into a central archives. This was the first independent national archives and their goal was to preserve and store documents and records as they were. This trend gained popularity and soon other countries began establishing national archives for the same reasons, to maintain and preserve their records as they were created and received.\n\nCultural and scientific change also helped to bring about the idea and practice of preservation. In the late eighteenth century, many museums, national libraries, and national archives were established in Europe; therefore ensuring the preservation of their cultural heritage.\n\nPreservation, like provenance, is concerned with the proper representation of archival materials. Archivists are primarily concerned with maintaining the record, along with the context in which it was produced, and making this information accessible to the user.\n\n\"Tout ensemble\" is a definition relating to preservation. This definition encompasses the idea of context and the importance of maintaining context. When a record is removed from its fellow records, it loses its meaning. In order to preserve a record it must be preserved in its original entirety or else it may lose its significance. This definition relates to the principle of provenance and \"respect des fonds\" as it similarly emphasizes the idea of the original record.\n\nMetadata is key for the preservation of context within archival science. Metadata, as defined by the SAA, is “data about data.” This data can help archivists locate a specific record, or a variety of records within a certain category. By assigning appropriate metadata to records or record aggregates, the archivist successfully preserves the entirety of the record and the context in which it was created. This allows for better accessibility and improves the authenticity of the record.\n\nPhysical maintenance is another key feature of preservation. There are many strategies in place to preserve archives properly; such as rehousing items in acid-free containers, storing items in climate controlled areas, and copying deteriorating items. These preservation techniques are to be carried out with respect to provenance.\n\nDigital preservation involves the implementation of policies, strategies, and actions in order to ensure that digitized documents remain accurate and accessible over time. Due to emerging technologies, archives began to expand and require new forms of preservation. Archival collections spread to include new media such as microfilm, audiofiles, visualfiles, moving images, and digital documents. Many of these new types of media suffer from a shorter life expectancy than paper. With the quick advancement of our technological society, old media is becoming obsolete. Therefore, migration from old formats to new formats is necessary for the preservation of these digital medias so they can remain accurate and accessible.\n\nMetadata is an important part of digital preservation as it preserves the context, usage, and migration of a digital record. Similarly to traditional preservation, metadata is required to preserve the context, authenticity, and accessibility of a record.\n\nProfessional archivist associations seek to foster study and professional development:\n\nSmaller professional regional associations also provide more local professional development, such as:\n\nIn 2002, the Society of American Archivists published guidelines for a graduate program in archival studies, but as of 2007 these guidelines have not been adopted by many universities. Practitioners of archival science might come from such academic backgrounds as library science, information science, history, or museology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2753593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2753593", "title": "Association of Hungarian Record Companies", "text": "Association of Hungarian Record Companies\n\nThe Hungarian Recording Industry Association (Hungarian: Magyar Hanglemezkiadók Szövetsége, more commonly abbreviated to MAHASZ or Mahasz) is the Hungarian music industry association, founded in 1992. MAHASZ issues the Hungarian Music Awards and maintains the music charts for Hungary.\n\nCertifications have existed in Hungary since the mid-1970s. During that period, albums had to sell 50,000 units to qualify for Gold status. Singles were required to sell 100,000 units to reach Gold level in the mid-1970s.\n\nThe table below shows certification levels for Gold and Platinum determined by MAHASZ.\n\nThe table below shows certification levels for Gold and Platinum determined by MAHASZ.\nNote: There have been changes to the thresholds for international repertoire in the past. For example, an official RIAJ report from 2005 specifies levels of 10,000 for Gold and 20,000 for Platinum. The changes in levels for \"International Repertoire\" have most likely taken place on the same dates as for \"Domestic Repertoire\".\n\nThe table below shows certification levels for Gold and Platinum determined by MAHASZ.\n\nThe table below shows certification levels for Gold and Platinum determined by MAHASZ.\n\nBelow is a list of albums that have been certified by MAHASZ.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "259335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=259335", "title": "Assumption of Mary", "text": "Assumption of Mary\n\nThe Assumption of Mary into Heaven (often shortened to the Assumption) is, according to the beliefs of the Catholic Church, Eastern and Oriental Orthodoxy, the bodily taking up of the Virgin Mary into Heaven at the end of her earthly life.\n\nThe Catholic Church teaches as dogma that the Virgin Mary \"having completed the course of her earthly life, was assumed body and soul into heavenly glory\". This doctrine was dogmatically defined by Pope Pius XII on 1 November 1950, in the apostolic constitution \"Munificentissimus Deus\" by exercising papal infallibility. While the Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodox Church believe in the Dormition of the Theotokos (\"the Falling Asleep of the Mother of God\"), whether Mary had a physical death has not been dogmatically defined. In \"Munificentissimus Deus\" (item 39) Pope Pius XII pointed to the Book of Genesis () as scriptural support for the dogma in terms of Mary's victory over sin and death through her intimate association with \"the new Adam\" (Christ) as also reflected in : \"then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory\".\n\nThe New Testament contains no explicit narrative about the death or Dormition, nor of the Assumption of Mary, but several scriptural passages have been theologically interpreted to describe the ultimate fate in this and the afterworld of the Mother of Jesus (see below).\n\nIn the churches that observe it, the Assumption is a major feast day, commonly celebrated on 15 August. In many countries, the feast is also marked as a Holy Day of Obligation in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThe Assumption (Latin: \"assumptio\", \"a taking\") was defined as dogma by the Catholic Church in 1950, when Pope Pius XII defined it \"ex cathedra\" in his Apostolic Constitution \"Munificentissimus Deus\". The Catholic Church itself interprets chapter 12 of the Book of Revelation as referring to it. The earliest known narrative is the so-called \"Liber Requiei Mariae\" (\"The Book of Mary's Repose\"), which survives intact only in an Ethiopic translation. Probably composed by the 4th century, this Christian apocryphal narrative may be as early as the 3rd century. Also quite early are the very different traditions of the \"\"Six Books\" Dormition narratives\". The earliest versions of this apocryphon are preserved in several Syriac manuscripts of the 5th and 6th centuries, although the text itself probably belongs to the 4th century.\nLater apocrypha based on these earlier texts include the \"De Obitu S. Dominae\", attributed to St. John, a work probably from around the turn of the 6th century that is a summary of the \"Six Books\" narrative. The story also appears in \"De Transitu Virginis\", a late 5th-century work ascribed to St. Melito of Sardis that presents a theologically redacted summary of the traditions in the \"Liber Requiei Mariae\". The \"Transitus Mariae\" tells the story of the apostles being transported by white clouds to the deathbed of Mary, each from the town where he was preaching at the hour.\nThe \"Decretum Gelasianum\" in the 490s declared some \"transitus Mariae\" literature apocryphal.\n\nAn Armenian letter attributed to Dionysus the Areopagite also mentioned the supposed event, although this was written sometime after the 6th century. John of Damascus, from this period, is the first church authority to advocate the doctrine under his own name. His contemporaries, Gregory of Tours and Modestus of Jerusalem, helped promote the concept to the wider church.\n\nIn some versions of the story, the event is said to have taken place in Ephesus, in the House of the Virgin Mary. This is a much more recent and localized tradition. The earliest traditions say that Mary's life ended in Jerusalem (see \"Mary's Tomb\"). By the 7th century, a variation emerged, according to which one of the apostles, often identified as St Thomas, was not present at the death of Mary but his late arrival precipitates a reopening of Mary's tomb, which is found to be empty except for her grave clothes. In a later tradition, Mary drops her girdle down to the apostle from heaven as testament to the event. This incident is depicted in many later paintings of the Assumption.\n\nTeaching of the Assumption of Mary became widespread across the Christian world, having been celebrated as early as the 5th century and having been established in the East by Emperor Maurice around AD 600. St. John Damascene records the following: \n\nThe Assumption of Mary was celebrated in the West under Pope Sergius I in the 8th century and Pope Leo IV confirmed the feast as official. Theological debate about the Assumption continued, following the Reformation. But the people celebrated the Assumption as part of the cult of Mary that flourished from the Middle Ages. In 1950 Pope Pius XII defined it as dogma for the Catholic Church. Catholic theologian Ludwig Ott stated, \"The idea of the bodily assumption of Mary is first expressed in certain transitus-narratives of the fifth and sixth centuries. ... The first Church author to speak of the bodily assumption of Mary, in association with an apocryphal transitus B.M.V., is St. Gregory of Tours.\" The Catholic writer Eamon Duffy states that \"there is, clearly, no historical evidence whatever for it.\" However, the Catholic Church has never asserted nor denied that its teaching is based on the apocryphal accounts. The Church documents are silent on this matter and instead rely upon other sources and arguments as the basis for the doctrine.\n\nPsychologist Carl Jung, who was deeply interested in archetypes and comparative religion, celebrated that the Catholic Church had officially elevated the Virgin Mary (whom he noted as symbolizing the feminine principle) to standing with three masculine figures in the panoply of the church. (Jung: \"Answer to Job\") \n\nOn 1 November 1950, in the Apostolic Constitution \"Munificentissimus Deus\" Pope Pius XII declared the Assumption of Mary as a dogma:\n\nPope Pius XII deliberately left open the question of whether Mary died before her Assumption.\n\nBefore the dogmatic definition, in \"Deiparae Virginis Mariae\" Pope Pius XII sought the opinion of Catholic Bishops. A large number of them pointed to the Book of Genesis () as scriptural support for the dogma. In \"Munificentissimus Deus\" (item 39) Pius XII referred to the \"struggle against the infernal foe\" as in Genesis 3:15 and to \"complete victory over the sin and death\" as in the Letters of Paul as a scriptural basis for the dogmatic definition, Mary being assumed to heaven as in : \"then shall come to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory\".\n\nIn Pius XII's dogmatic statement, the phrase \"having completed the course of her earthly life\", leaves open the question of whether the Virgin Mary died before her assumption or not. Mary's assumption is said to have been a divine gift to her as the 'Mother of God'. Ludwig Ott's view is that, as Mary completed her life as a shining example to the human race, the perspective of the gift of assumption is offered to the whole human race.\n\nLudwig Ott writes in his book, \"Fundamentals of Catholic Dogma\", that \"the fact of her death is almost generally accepted by the Fathers and Theologians, and is expressly affirmed in the Liturgy of the Church\", to which he adds a number of helpful citations. He concludes: \"for Mary, death, in consequence of her freedom from original sin and from personal sin, was not a consequence of punishment of sin. However, it seems fitting that Mary's body, which was by nature mortal, should be, in conformity with that of her Divine Son, subject to the general law of death\".\n\nThe point of her bodily death has not been infallibly defined by any pope. Many Catholics believe that she did not die at all, but was assumed directly into Heaven. The dogmatic definition within the Apostolic Constitution \"Munificentissimus Deus\" which, according to Roman Catholic dogma, infallibly proclaims the doctrine of the Assumption leaves open the question of whether, in connection with her departure, Mary underwent bodily death. It does not dogmatically define the point one way or the other, as shown by the words \"having completed the course of her earthly life\".\n\nIn \"Munificentissimus Deus\", near the end of the review of the doctrine's history, Pope Pius XII stated : \"All these proofs and considerations of the holy Fathers and the theologians are based upon the Sacred Writings as their ultimate foundation.\" Precedent to this, he cited many passages that have been offered in support of this teaching.\n\nThe pope cited . In this passage Paul alludes to (in addition to the primary reference of ), where it is prophesied that the seed of the woman will crush Satan with his feet: \"I will put enmities between thee and the woman, and thy seed and her seed: she shall crush thy head, and thou shalt lie in wait for her heel.\" Since, then, Jesus arose to Heaven to fulfill this prophecy, it follows that the woman would have a similar end, since she shared this enmity with Satan.\n\nThe pope also mentioned (in paragraph 26) , a psalm commemorating the return of the Ark of God to Jerusalem and lamenting its subsequent loss. The second half of the psalm says that the loss will be recompensed in the New Covenant, and so it is hopefully prayed, \"Arise, O Lord, into thy resting place: thou and the ark, which thou hast sanctified\" (v. 8). Since the Church sees this New Covenant ark in Mary, it understands that she was taken into Heaven in the same manner as the Lord – that is, body and soul.\n\nFinally, he mentioned in the next paragraph \"that woman clothed with the sun [] whom John the Apostle contemplated on the Island of Patmos\" was support for the creating this dogmatic doctrine for Catholics.\n\nThe Latin Catholic Feast of the Assumption is celebrated on 15 August, and the Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholics celebrate the Dormition of the Theotokos (the falling asleep of the Mother of God) on the same date, preceded by a 14-day fast period. Eastern Christians believe that Mary died a natural death, that her soul was received by Christ upon death, and that her body was resurrected on the third day after her death and that she was taken up into heaven bodily in anticipation of the general resurrection. Her tomb was found empty on the third day. \n\nMany Catholics also believe that Mary first died before being assumed, but they believe that she was miraculously resurrected before being assumed. Others believe she was assumed bodily into Heaven without first dying. Either understanding may be legitimately held by Catholics, with Eastern Catholics observing the Feast as the Dormition. \n\nMany theologians note by way of comparison that in the Catholic Church, the Assumption is dogmatically defined, while in the Eastern Orthodox tradition, the Dormition is less dogmatically than liturgically and mystically defined. Such differences spring from a larger pattern in the two traditions, wherein Catholic teachings are often dogmatically and authoritatively defined – in part because of the more centralized structure of the Catholic Church – while in Eastern Orthodoxy, many doctrines are less authoritative.\n\nViews differ within Protestantism, with those with a theology closer to Catholicism sometimes believing in a bodily assumption, while most Protestants do not. \n\nWithin Anglican doctrine, the Assumption of Mary is either rejected, or regarded as adiaphora (\"a thing indifferent\"); it therefore disappeared from Anglican worship in 1549, partially returning in some branches of Anglicanism during the 20th century under different names. A Marian feast on 15 August is celebrated by the Church of England as a non-specific feast of the Blessed Virgin Mary, a feast called by the Scottish Episcopal Church simply \"Mary the Virgin\", and in the US-based Episcopal Church it is observed as the feast of \"Saint Mary the Virgin: Mother of Our Lord Jesus Christ\",\nwhile other Anglican provinces have a feast of the Dormition – the Anglican Church of Canada for instance marks the day as the \"Falling Asleep of the Blessed Virgin Mary\",\n\nThe Anglican-Roman Catholic International Commission, which seeks to identify common ground between the two communions, released in 2004 an non-authoritative declaration meant for study and evaluation, the \"Seattle Statement\"; this \"agreed statement\" concludes that \"the teaching about Mary in the two definitions of the Assumption and the Immaculate Conception, understood within the biblical pattern of the economy of hope and grace, can be said to be consonant with the teaching of the Scriptures and the ancient common traditions\".\n\nThe Protestant Reformer Heinrich Bullinger believed in the assumption of Mary. His 1539 polemical treatise against idolatry expressed his belief that Mary's \"sacrosanctum corpus\" (\"sacrosanct body\") had been assumed into heaven by angels:\n\nMost modern Protestants neither teach nor believe in the Assumption of Mary, as they see no biblical basis or extra-biblical basis for it. Although many churches within Lutheranism do not teach the Assumption of Mary, 15 August remains a Lesser Feast in celebration of \"Mary, Mother of Our Lord\", according to the Calendar of Saints.\n\nThe Assumption is important to many Catholic and Orthodox Christians as the Virgin Mary's heavenly birthday (the day that Mary was received into Heaven). Belief about her acceptance into the glory of Heaven is seen by some Christians as the symbol of the promise made by Jesus to all enduring Christians that they too will be received into paradise. The Assumption of Mary is symbolised in the Fleur-de-lys Madonna.\n\nThe present Italian name of the holiday, \"Ferragosto\", may derive from the Latin name, \"Feriae Augusti\" (\"Holidays of the Emperor Augustus\"), since the month of August took its name from the emperor. The Solemnity of the Assumption on 15 August was celebrated in the eastern Church from the 6th Century. The Catholic Church adopted this date as a Holy Day of Obligation to commemorate the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, a reference to the belief in a real, physical elevation of her sinless soul and incorrupt body into Heaven.\n\nAssumption Day on 15 August is a nationwide public holiday in Andorra, Austria, Belgium, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chile, Republic of Congo, Côte d'Ivoire, Croatia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, East Timor, France, Gabon, Greece, Georgia, Republic of Guinea, Haiti, Italy, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Republic of Macedonia, Madagascar, Malta, Mauritius, Republic of Moldova, Monaco, Montenegro (Albanian Catholics), Paraguay, Poland (Polish Army Day), Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Slovenia, Spain, Syria, Tahiti, Togo, and Vanuatu; and was also in Hungary until 1948.\n\nIt is also a public holiday in parts of Germany (parts of Bavaria and Saarland) and Switzerland (in 14 of the 26 cantons). In Guatemala, it is observed in Guatemala City and in the town of Santa Maria Nebaj, both of which claim her as their patron saint. Also, this day is combined with Mother's Day in Costa Rica and parts of Belgium.\n\nProminent Catholic and Orthodox countries in which Assumption Day is an important festival but is not recognized by the state as a public holiday include Brazil, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Ireland, Mexico, the Philippines and Russia.\n\nIn many places, religious parades and popular festivals are held to celebrate this day. In Canada, Assumption Day is the Fête Nationale of the Acadians, of whom she is the patron saint. Some businesses close on that day in heavily francophone parts of New Brunswick, Canada. The Virgin Assumed in Heaven is also patroness of the Maltese Islands and her feast, celebrated on 15 August, apart from being a public holiday in Malta is also celebrated with great solemnity in the local churches especially in the seven localities known as the Seba' Santa Marijiet. The hamlet of Praha, Texas holds a festival during which its population swells from approximately 25 to 5000 people.\n\nIn Anglicanism and Lutheranism, the feast is kept, but without official use of the word \"Assumption\". In the Armenian tradition, a cultural custom of blessing of the grapes is annually observed each 12 August in religious commemoration of the Feast of the Dormition of the Theotokos. In Eastern Orthodox churches following the Julian Calendar, the feast day of Assumption of Mary falls on 28 August.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "937080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937080", "title": "Book series", "text": "Book series\n\nA book series is a sequence of books having certain characteristics in common that are formally identified together as a group. Book series can be organized in different ways, such as written by the same author, or marketed as a group by their publisher.\n\nReprint series of public domain fiction (and sometimes nonfiction) books appeared as early as the 18th century, with the series Poets of Great Britain Complete from Chaucer to Churchill (founded by British publisher John Bell in 1777). Later British reprint series were to include the Routledge's Railway Library (George Routledge, 1848–99), the Oxford World's Classics (Oxford University Press, 1901- ), the Everyman's Library (J. M. Dent, 1906- ), the Penguin Classics (Penguin Books, 1945- ) and the Penguin English Library (1963- ).\n\nReprint series were also published in the United States, including the Modern Library (Boni & Liveright, 1917- ), in Germany, including the Universal-Bibliothek (Reclam, 1867- ), and in most other countries of the world.\n\nThe early 19th century saw numerous improvements in the printing, publishing and book-distribution processes, with the introduction of steam-powered printing presses, pulp mills, automatic type setting, and a network of railways.[3] These innovations enabled the likes of Simms and McIntyre of Belfast,[4] Routledge & Sons (founded in 1836) and Ward & Lock (founded in 1854) to mass-produce cheap uniform yellowback or paperback editions of existing works, and distribute and sell them across the British Isles, principally via the ubiquitous W H Smith & Sons newsagent found at most urban British railway stations. These paper bound volumes were offered for sale at a fraction of the historic cost of a book, and were of a smaller format (110x175mm) aimed at the railway traveller.[5] The Routledge's Railway Library series of paperbacks remained in print until 1898, and offered the traveling public 1,277 unique titles.[6]\n\nIn 1841 the German Tauchnitz publishing firm launched the \"Collection of British and American Authors\", a reprint series of inexpensive paperbound editions of both public domain and copyrighted fiction and nonfiction works. This book series was unique for paying living authors of the works published even though copyright protection did not exist between nations in the 19th century.\n\nFictional series typically share a common setting, story arc, set of characters or timeline. They are common in genre fiction, particularly crime fiction, adventure fiction, and science fiction, as well as in children's literature.\n\nSome works in a series can stand alone—they can be read in any order, as each book makes few, if any, reference to past events, and the characters seldom, if ever, change. Many of these series books may be published in a numbered series. Examples of such series are works like The Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew, and Nick Carter.\n\nSome series do have their characters go through changes, and make references to past events. Typically such series are published in the order of their internal chronology, so that the next book published follows the previous book. How much these changes matter will vary from series to series (and reader to reader). For some, it may be minor—characters might get engaged, change jobs, etc., but it does not affect the main storyline. Examples of this type include Tony Hillerman's Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn books. In other series, the changes are major and the books must be read in order to be fully enjoyed. Examples of this type include the Harry Potter series.\n\nThere are some book series that are not really proper series, but more of a single work so large that it must be published over two or more books. Examples of this type include \"The Lord of the Rings\" volumes or the \"Dark Tower\" series by Stephen King.\n\nSome authors make it difficult to list their books in a numerical order when they do not release each work in its 'proper' order by the story's internal chronology. They might 'jump' back in time to early adventures of the characters, writing works that must be placed before or between previously published works. Thus, the books in a series are sometimes enumerated according to the internal chronology rather than in publication order, depending on the intended purpose for the list. Examples of this series include works from the Chronicles of Narnia, where the fifth book published, \"The Horse and His Boy\", is actually set during the time of the first book, and the sixth book published, \"The Magician's Nephew\" is actually set long before the first book. This was done intentionally by C. S. Lewis, a medieval literature scholar. Medieval literature did not always tell a story chronologically.\n\nIn scholarly and academic publishing, scientific and non-fiction books that are released serially (in successive parts) once a year, or less often, are also called a series. (Publications that are released more often than once a year are known as periodicals.) The connection among books belonging to such a series can be by discipline, focus, approach, type of work, or geographic location. Examples of such series include the \"Antwerp Working Papers in Linguistics\", \"Early English Manuscripts in Facsimile\", \"Garland Reference Library\", \"Canterbury Tales Project\", \"Early English Text Society\", and \"Cambridge Companions to Music\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1646827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1646827", "title": "Books of Blood", "text": "Books of Blood\n\nBooks of Blood are a series of horror fiction collections written by the British author Clive Barker.\n\nThere are six books in total, each simply subtitled \"Volume 1\" through to \"Volume 6\", and were subsequently re-published in two omnibus editions containing three volumes each. Each volume contains four or five stories. The volume 1–3 omnibus was published with a foreword by Barker's fellow Liverpudlian horror writer Ramsey Campbell.\n\nThey were published between 1984 and 1985. With the publication of the first volume, Barker became an overnight sensation and was hailed by Stephen King as \"the future of horror\". The book won both the British and World Fantasy Awards.\n\nAlthough undoubtedly horror stories, like most of Barker's work they mix fantasy themes in as well. The unrelentingly bleak tales invariably take place in a contemporary setting, usually featuring everyday people who become embroiled in terrifying or mysterious events. Barker has stated in \"Faces of Fear\" that an inspiration for the \"Books of Blood\" was when he read \"Dark Forces\" in the early 1980s and realised that a horror story collection need not have any narrow themes, consistent tone or restrictions. The stories could range from the humorous to the truly horrific.\n\nFor some editions, each book's cover was illustrated by Clive Barker himself.\n\nEighteen of the stories in the \"Books of Blood\" were adapted by Eclipse Books in the comic series \"Tapping the Vein\" as well as other titled adaptations.\n\nSeveral of the stories have been adapted into films, \"Rawhead Rex\" (1986); \"The Forbidden\" (filmed in 1992 as \"Candyman\"); \"The Last Illusion\" (filmed in 1995 as \"Lord of Illusions\"); \"The Body Politic\" (filmed in 1997 as \"Quicksilver Highway\"); \"The Midnight Meat Train\" (2008); \"The Book of Blood\" and \"On Jerusalem Street (a postscript)\" (combined and filmed in 2008 as \"Book of Blood\"), and \"Dread\" (2009). \"The Yattering and Jack\" was adapted by Barker himself in 1986 for the US series \"Tales from the Darkside\".\n\nThis is the frame story for the entire \"Books of Blood\" series. A psychic researcher, Mary Florescu, has employed a quack medium named Simon McNeal to investigate a haunted house. Alone in an upstairs room, McNeal at first fakes visions, but then the ghosts attack him for real and carve words in his flesh comprising the rest of the stories as a literal, living \"Book of Blood.\" \n\nThis prologue, along with closing story \"On Jerusalem Street\" from Volume Six, was adapted into the film \"Book of Blood\", written and directed by John Harrison.\n\nAfter New York office worker Leon Kaufman falls asleep on a late-night subway train, he awakens to discover that the next car over has been turned into an abbatoir where other passengers have been butchered. Kaufman encounters the killer, a man named Mahogany, and kills him in self-defense. The motorman, nonplussed at Mahogany's death, brings the train into a secret station where strange, malformed humanoid creatures board and eat the bodies. It is revealed that the creatures, the \"City Fathers\", have been the secret rulers of New York for centuries, and show Kaufman an immense being further inside the catacombs. They then pull out Kaufman's tongue to ensure his silence, recruiting him as the new \"butcher\" devoted to bringing fresh meat to the City Fathers.\n\nA film of the same name was released on 1 August 2008. The film differs from the book in a number of ways, most notably with the introduction of additional characters such as Maya, Leon's girlfriend. Bradley Cooper and Vinnie Jones star in the film.\n\nJack Polo is a gherkin importer who is haunted by a minor demon called the Yattering. The demon is commanded to haunt Jack by Beelzebub, because one of Jack's ancestors reneged on a pact made with the demon lord. The Yattering is frustrated when its determined efforts to drive Jack insane are answered with good cheer and apparent obliviousness. Unknown to the Yattering, Jack is purposely ignoring the demon in order to simultaneously frustrate it and maintain his own sanity. The Yattering subjects him to increasingly severe torments, including killing his cats and terrorising his family, but these efforts all fail. Eventually Jack tricks the Yattering into violating its orders, allowing Jack to take advantage of a loophole and make the Yattering his slave.\n\nUnusual for Barker's early work, this story is unabashedly comic. It was made into an episode of the horror anthology TV series \"Tales from the Darkside\" (Season 4 - 1987/88, episode 76; broadcast Nov 8, 1987) with Barker writing the screenplay from his own story.\n\nFormer policeman Redman starts working in a borstal, where he uncovers a deadly secret involving a boy named Lacey. Lacey claims that a missing boy named Henessey is not missing, but rather is present in the form of a ghost. As Redman investigates, he finds that things are not what they seem, and that a giant pig in a sty on the grounds is possessed by Henessey's soul.\n\nLeroy Townsonio is directing \"Twelfth Night\" in a run-down theatre. Leroy relies on the soap opera fame of his leading lady, Diane Duvall, to bring in a big audience; however, this is compromised by his affair with Diane and her poor acting skills. A mysterious man with an obscured face, Mr. Lichfield, introduces himself and expresses dissatisfaction with Diane's casting as Viola. On the day of the final rehearsal, Lichfield confronts Diane and states that his wife, Constantia, will play the role on opening night. Diane removes Lichfield's mask to reveal him as an animated corpse. Lichfield kisses Diane, and she slips into a coma. Constantia takes over the role of Viola while Diane is put in intensive care. Following her \"recovery\", Leroy realises during sex that Diane is undead, just before she kills him.\n\nThe play opens to a packed house. When the house lights are extinguished after the performance, the actors realise that the audience consists entirely of ghosts and decaying corpses. The theatre trustee, newly-dead Tallulah, burns down the theatre. Every living player in the production is killed. Several of the actors and Leroy join Mr. Lichfield and Constantia on the road as a repertory company of the undead.\n\nIn an isolated rural area of Yugoslavia, two entire cities, Popolac and Podujevo, create massive communal creatures by binding together the bodies of their citizens. Almost forty thousand people walk as the body of a single giant as tall as a skyscraper. This ritual occurs every ten years, but this time things go wrong and the Podujevo giant collapses, killing tens of thousands of citizens horribly. In shock, the entire population of Popolac goes mad and becomes the giant they are strapped into. Popolac wanders the hills aimlessly. By nightfall many of the people who make up the giant die from exhaustion, but the giant continues walking.\n\nMick and Judd, two gay men vacationing in the area, come upon the smashed bodies of the Podujevans in a ravine awash with blood. A local man tries to steal their car to catch up with Popolac and reason with it before it collapses and destroys the people who compose it. The man explains the truth of the situation to Mick and Judd, but they do not believe his story. They seek shelter at a remote farm, where Popolac blunders into the farmhouse, killing Judd accidentally. Mick and the elderly couple who own the farmhouse are driven mad with fear. Mick wants to join Popolac. He climbs up the tower of ropes and bodies, and is carried away as it walks into the hills.\n\nA line from this story, \"stale incense, old sweat, and lies,\" appears in the song \"Sin\" on the album \"Pretty Hate Machine\" by the American industrial band Nine Inch Nails.\n\nSteve, a young student, becomes acquainted with an older classmate named Quaid, an intellectual who has a morbid fascination with fear. Quaid reveals to Steve that he kidnapped a vegetarian girl and imprisoned her in a room with merely a steak for sustenance, only releasing her when she finally overcame her dread of eating meat to prevent starvation; she eats the meat even though it has spoiled. Steve becomes Quaid's next candidate for his experiments, held captive in a dark, silent room, forcing him to relive a childhood period of deafness that terrified him. Steve is driven insane by this forced sensory deprivation and eventually butchers Quaid with an axe. Quaid's experiments, all along, were to try to help him understand the nature of fear, but ironically his experiments in phobias made his own worst fears come to life.\n\nThis story has been made into a film, with Jackson Rathbone playing Steve.\n\nEvery one-hundred years, during an annual London marathon, Satan sends one of his representatives to compete against the (unsuspecting) human runners. If Satan's minion wins, he gets to rule the Earth. An athlete taking part in the event, Joel, begins to realise the actual stakes of the race when the other runners begin to fall, savaged by some unseen beast. A satanist politician, Gregory, has made a bargain with Hell on the outcome of the race. Joel does not win due to a struggle with Hell's shape-shifting runner, a demonic familiar who bites off his face. However, during this struggle, the last surviving runner jogs past them to the finishing line. Hell loses out once again. Gregory is punished for his overconfidence by being gruesomely slain.\n\nJacqueline Ess is a housewife who attempts suicide after becoming bored with her life. She recovers only to find that she has an ability to change people's body shapes with her mind. She accidentally kills her therapist and then – somewhat less accidentally – her husband, simply by willing their bodies into tearing apart or folding in on themselves. One man becomes obsessed with her and tracks her down. Jacqueline eventually becomes a prostitute, her abilities giving her the power to give men the ultimate sexual experience, albeit one that always proves fatal. She has by now lost control of herself and has to be watched while sleeping in case she unconsciously mutilates her own body. The man eventually makes love to Jacqueline and they willingly die together by her powers.\n\nThis story is also published in the book \"I Shudder at Your Touch\".\n\nAfter his car breaks down in Arizona, a man named Davidson witnesses a bizarre parade of freakish monsters. It turns out that these creatures mated with a woman in a nearby town six years previously, and are intending on reclaiming the child, which they promptly achieve. Davidson reaches the town, where a posse of gun-toting locals are eager to set out to slay the monsters. Everything goes wrong, however, and Davidson and just a few other survivors end up with a horrific fate; they sink in quicksand which then hardens when they are half-buried, and are left for dead in the burning desert heat.\n\nThis was used as a scene in the film \"Lord of Illusions\", which was in turn based on \"The Last Illusion\", a story in volume six.\n\nLewis is a 73-year-old man who goes to Paris after his friend, Phillipe, is arrested for butchering a young woman. Phillipe eventually commits suicide in his cell after babbling about an orangutan who committed the murder he had been arrested for. Lewis does not believe it until he sees the primate – dressed like a human, completely shaved, and wielding a razor – for himself. The beast had been raised by Philippe, a notorious eccentric, as a strange experiment based on Edgar Allan Poe's classic story.\n\nAn escaped convict dies behind a film screen. Over the years following his death, a cancerous tumor gains sentience from the strong emotions of the cinema's audiences and torments the few people that remain after a show. The sole survivor of the massacre is seen some time later, having tracked down the murderous entity which was roaming the country after possessing the body of a young girl unaccounted for after the events. She covers the creature with acid, killing it completely.\n\nAn ancient, malevolent monster, magically imprisoned underground, is accidentally awakened in a village in Kent. Rawhead is a nine-foot humanoid with a huge, toothed head, goes on a rampage, killing and eating several townsfolk. He corrupts the local verger, who surrenders to the violent, depraved impulses that Rawhead represents, and who helps the monster slay the vicar, Coot. Rawhead sets the village alight, and is eventually overcome by Ron, father of one of Rawhead's victims, who uses a talisman to stall the beast until he is overrun by a mob of enraged villagers. The talisman depicts a pregnant woman, Rawhead's antithesis and the only thing he fears.\n\n\"Rawhead Rex\" has a structure similar to \"Alien\" or \"The Thing from Another World\", but uses a disturbing rural setting. The story was later turned into the film \"Rawhead Rex\" (1986), which Barker has disowned.\n\nRonnie is a straight-laced Catholic man who is set up to look like the king of a pornography cartel. He kills some of his enemies, but is murdered by their cohorts. Awakening as a ghost, he possesses the shroud that covers his body in the morgue, and in the shape of the shroud takes revenge on the rest of his enemies. In a gory finale, he enters the mouth of the man responsible for his ordeal and turns him inside out.\n\nDespite containing graphic descriptions of acts of extreme violence, the story is written as a black comedy, revolving around the visual gag of a real ghost looking like someone wearing a bedsheet over his or her head.\n\nA yacht is stranded on the beach of a deserted island located at a point in the Atlantic Ocean where converging undersea currents bring all the human bodies of sailors drowned at sea. The hundreds of bodies littering the ocean floor, unfortunately for the stranded crew, aren't as dead as they should be.\n\nA young gay prostitute is hired by an archaeologist. During the course of the night he stumbles into the bathroom to discover a Roman-esque statue of a man lying in the bath. Over the next few weeks, he has the sense of being haunted by a doppelgänger. At the same time, his mind and body transforms; he becomes cold and lifeless, no longer needing to eat or sleep. He finally discovers his doppelganger, the statue from the bath, at his father's grave, crying in sorrow, as he is unmoved. It becomes clear that the doppelganger has become more convincing as a human than he is, and he wanders away, allowing it to continue living in his persona.\n\nA young man named Karney and his friends beat up a vagrant for fun. Karney steals a strange knotted piece of string he finds on the vagrant. A keen fan of puzzles, Karney undoes the knots that evening, not knowing that in doing so he is releasing a succession of demons who proceed to kill off his friends. The demons seem progressively more advanced, appearing to evolve with each knot. When he realises what he has done, Karney has to seek out the vagrant for help.\n\nIn a bizarre version of a revolution, it appears that all our hands have their own consciousness and are not happy at being ordered what to do by their owners. The hands of a factory worker named Charlie plan to lead the revolution. Charlie's hands even have their own personalities, with Left being more cautious and Right being very determined and even proclaiming himself a Messiah. Right – against Charlie's own wishes – chops off Left, who scuttles away to summon other hands to do the same before returning to rescue Right, starting an unfortunate revolution for the population. \n\nThis book was later adapted and used, in part, for the film \"Quicksilver Highway\".\n\nA woman named Virginia is unwillingly taken on a tour of the U.S. by her unfeeling husband, a preacher named John Gyer. They stay at a motel which is visited by the ghosts of Buck and Sadie, a married couple who stayed there. In the same room, 30 years before, Sadie murdered Buck and was subsequently put to death for the murder. Buck and Sadie find that Virginia has the ability to both see and hear them. Meanwhile, a scuffle ensues when John discovers their driver, Earl, has been giving Virginia pills to help her deal with her anxiety issues. While looking for Earl to confront him about the pills, John finds the married driver in bed with the daughter of the motel owner, Laura-May. Virginia ends up getting her hands on the same murder weapon used by Sadie 30 years prior, which Laura-May has kept as a souvenir. Virginia uses the gun to try to kill Buck's ghost, who managed partial materialization in order to attempt to rape her, but the bullet goes through him and finds its way into John's throat, killing him. Virginia contemplates suicide, but Sadie's ghost advises her to plead insanity. Whilst being taken in by the local sheriff, someone asks her why she did it. Virginia answers \"the Devil made me do it\" whilst gazing at the moon with \"the craziest smile she (can) muster\".\n\nOne of the shortest stories relates the tale of a wealthy middle-aged businessman, Gregorius, who becomes depressed when he believes God has deserted him, and he comes up with a plan to build a Hell on Earth to summon Satan, believing that God will then sweep him (Gregorius) out of Satan's clutches, and into his heavenly fold. In his vast Satanic Cathedral, Gregorious soon loses sight of his original intention of attracting God's attention, and he is captured after torturing hundreds of people to death in the well-equipped torture chambers. It is deliberately left ambiguous whether Gregorius went insane, or if he really did succeed in tempting Satan into taking residence in his own personal Hell.\n\nA private laboratory runs experiments on volunteers to investigate the libido and try to develop a chemical aphrodisiac. One of the experiments goes wrong, when a man suddenly goes insane with lust. His perpetual state of arousal erodes his respect for morality or the law. He rapes, murders, and mutilates one of the scientists and then escapes to cause wanton mayhem, eventually burning himself out and dying.\n\nA university student named Helen is doing a thesis on graffiti, and selects a run-down estate to focus her study. She notices disturbing graffiti in an abandoned building that makes references to an urban legend known as the Candyman. Further enquiries lead her to believe this is connected with recent murders and mutilations in the neighbourhood, although the locals are seemingly reluctant to discuss the incidents. She eventually encounters the Candyman himself, gaining notoriety by becoming his latest victim. \n\nThis book was later adapted and made into the film \"Candyman\".\n\nA man named Jerry is trying to talk a local shady businessman into financing the redevelopment of an old swimming pool complex. However, the pool has some mysterious inhabitants in the form of nude teenage girls who flee should Jerry or his would-be financial backer encounter them. A swimming pool in the centre is unlike the other pools in the building, in that it is full, glows with a strange light, and appears to be inhabited by some misshapen life-form. Curiosity leads Jerry to return to the place, which somehow causes him to wake up one morning to see that he has been transformed into a woman.\n\nAfter breaking down in the middle of nowhere, a young woman happens across a secluded compound in which the world's greatest minds, a group of elderly scientists and scholars, are responsible for determining the outcome of major world events. They have lived in the complex for many years and by this point their decisions have degenerated to being made solely via games of chance. Chaos ensues when the woman and the men seek to flee the compound. They end up getting in a car accident, and all the elders are killed with the exception of the single one who refused to go along. The woman is forced to participate in the games of chance with him until replacements can be found.\n\nA prison inmate named Cleve gets a new cellmate, a mysterious young man called Billy, who admits that he committed a crime with the sole intention of coming to this particular prison. Billy believes he has been summoned there by his grandfather, a supposedly powerful sorcerer who was buried in the prison after his execution for murder years before. Billy's efforts to summon his grandfather Tait's spirit cause Cleve to be haunted by dreams in which he travels to a form of purgatory for murderers, where killers are obliged to spend some portion of their after life in a replica of the scene of their crime. In the end, Billy vanishes from his cell. His grandfather's coffin is exhumed and found to contain Billy curled up next to his grandfather's corpse. Once released, Cleve finds that his travels to the murderer's purgatory have left him with the ability to hear other people's thoughts, as long as they revolve around killing people. He becomes disillusioned with humanity and becomes a heroin addict to suppress his newfound powers. Cleve later commits a murder himself to feed his habit, and is shot dead by the police. He spends an indeterminate amount of time in his own murderer's purgatory, before discovering that individuals can escape via reincarnation.\n\nFollowing a brush with cancer and a subsequent hysterectomy, a woman named Elaine becomes fascinated by a church that is being demolished. She encounters a cheerfully morbid man named Kavanagh, who shares her fascination. The demolition soon reveals a tomb of plague victims that had been fermenting for centuries, and Elaine breaks in at night to view the bodies. Later, when her friends begin to die off and the police come after her, Elaine takes refuge with Kavanagh, who she firmly believes, due to his mysterious personality and skeletal features, to be Death. It turns out Kavanagh is only a serial killer and necrophile; he strangles and rapes Elaine. As her soul flees her body, Elaine feels a sick sort of glee when she realizes that Kavanagh will now be the carrier of the plague she contracted in the tomb, and will spread it far and wide.\n\nSeveral European mercenaries, led by a cold-hearted man named Locke, have bought land in the jungles of South America that it is inhabited by a tribe of Amazonian natives. When the tribe refuse to leave, one of Locke's cohorts impulsively shoots one of them dead accidentally. The elder of the tribe puts a curse on the men which, one by one, strikes them down with a gruesome condition that makes their bodies incredibly delicate; a mote of dust can slice their skin open, the soles of their feet crack when they stand. After his men die off, Locke goes back to the tribe to beg for forgiveness. However, when he gets there, the tribe has been massacred by some of his other colleagues. Locke begins to suffer the symptoms of the deadly curse just as he realises there is now no way of having it removed.\n\nA British spy named Ballard stationed in Berlin meets with a KGB counterpart named Mironenko. After their meet, Mironenko disappears. Ballard witnesses a vicious mauling, then soon learns that he and Mironenko are both werewolves, trained by each agency to defeat the other. Both governments raid their meeting place, causing Mironenko to transform fully. Ballard runs and wakes up in a fellow operative's house. Ballard's rival, Suckling, arrives and kills the agent, only to be killed by the transformed Ballard. Ballard seeks Mironenko, and finds him preaching to a group of wolves, verbally preparing them to overthrow humankind.\n\nPrivate investigator Harry D'Amour takes a strange case where a magician named Swann has been killed under mysterious circumstances. D'Amour is recruited by Swann's wife to watch over his body so he can be cremated in line with a letter written before his death. Almost immediately, D'Amour is drawn into a battle with demons from the underworld seeking to claim Swann's body due to a deal he made with them which gave him the magical powers he possessed. With the assistance of Swann's underling Valentin, who is secretly a demon himself, D'Amour fights off the demons desiring Swann's body and manages to cremate it, but not before Swann performs one last magical act. \n\nThis story was later adapted by Barker himself into the film \"Lord of Illusions\".\n\nOnly included in some UK editions of the \"Books of Blood\", \"On Jerusalem Street\" is a sequel to \"The Book of Blood\" from Volume One told as a sort of wrap-around tale. Wyburd is hired to obtain the Book of Blood for a collector. He captures and skins Simon McNeal. Later, the skin starts to bleed and won't stop, and Wyburd eventually drowns. He ends up on the highways of the dead, where he tells his story. \n\nThis story, along with the prologue from Volume One, was adapted and directed into the film \"Book of Blood\" by John Harrison.\n\n"}
{"id": "39588676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39588676", "title": "Comparison of Mobile CRM systems", "text": "Comparison of Mobile CRM systems\n\nThis article is a comparison of notable mobile CRM systems.\nERP systems, are considered a superset of CRM systems.\n\nThe market for mobile CRM applications is currently seeing record growth as new products and services around mobile CRM are being developed. The benefits of mobile CRM application have been demonstrated in a paper by Grandhi & Chugh (2012) through the case of Dow Corning and DirecTV where the introduction of SAP CRM system helped to improve their customer relations. Analysis of the two organisations revealed that mobile CRM applications are not only helping them to improve relationship with customers, but also helping to reduce the costs of acquiring new customers.\n\nOnly stable releases are considered.\n\n"}
{"id": "925039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925039", "title": "Corcoran Gallery of Art", "text": "Corcoran Gallery of Art\n\nThe Corcoran Gallery of Art was an art museum in Washington, D.C. that is now the location of the Corcoran School of the Arts and Design, a part of the George Washington University. The Corcoran School, founded in 1878, hosts exhibitions by its students and visiting artists and offers degrees in Fine Art, Photojournalism, Interaction Design, Interior Architecture, etc. Prior to the Gallery's closing, it was one of the oldest privately supported cultural institutions in the United States. Starting in 1890, a museum school, later known as the Corcoran College of Art + Design, co-existed with the gallery. The museum's main focus was American art. In 2014, after decades of financial problems and mismanagement, the Corcoran was dissolved by court order. A new non-profit was established and the Corcoran's $2 billion, 17,000 piece art collection was given away for free to the National Gallery of Art (NGA). What works the NGA did not accession were donated to cultural institutions throughout Washington, D.C. and across the country. The Corcoran School of Art and Design was given to George Washington University (GWU) along with the $200 million historic 17th street building along with $50 million.\n\nWhen the gallery was founded in 1869 by William Wilson Corcoran, the co-founder of Riggs Bank, it was one of the first fine art galleries in the country. Corcoran established the gallery, supported with an endowment, \"for the perpetual establishment and encouragement of the Fine Arts.\" While an independent institution, the Corcoran was the oldest and largest non-federal art museum in the District of Columbia. Its mission was \"dedicated to art and used solely for the purpose of encouraging the American genius.\"\n\nThe Corcoran Gallery of Art was originally located at 17th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, in the building that now houses the Renwick Gallery. Construction of that building started before the Civil War. The building, near completion, was used by the government as a warehouse during the Civil War. It was finally completed in 1874 and the gallery opened to the public.\n\nBy 1897, the Corcoran Gallery collection outgrew the space of its original building. A new building was constructed, designed by Ernest Flagg in a Beaux-Arts style. The 135,000 square feet (12,500 m²) building was built to house an expanded Corcoran collection in addition to the nascent school, which had been formally founded in 1890. The new building features a pair of bronze statues, the Canova Lions, at its entrance. These lions were purchased at auction by the Corcoran Galley in 1888 and placed in front of the museum at its original location. The iconic bronze castings were moved to their current location in 1897 when the museum moved to its current building at 17th Street and New York Avenue.\n\nIn 1928, the art collection of former Senator William A. Clark joined the Corcoran in a new wing designed by Charles Adam Platt, and inaugurated by President Calvin Coolidge. For decades, the Corcoran examined the possibility of adding on a final wing which would complete the campus footprint. These plans abruptly ended in 2005 after a Frank O. Gehry -designed wing was scrapped due to lack of funding, and the remainder of the available property was sold to a private developer.\n\nThroughout the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, the gallery continued to display its main collection from Corcoran, Clark, and a few select major donors. At its peak, the museum owned a significant collection including work from Rembrandt Peale, Eugène Delacroix, Edgar Degas, Thomas Gainsborough, John Singer Sargent, Claude Monet, Mariano Fortuny, Pablo Picasso, Edward Hopper, Willem de Kooning, Joan Mitchell, Gene Davis, and many others. Space was always a challenge - only a small percentage of the gallery's permanent collection was able to be displayed in the confines of the 17th street gallery, which shared its roughly 140,000 square feet with the art school.\n\nIn 1989, the Corcoran Gallery of Art had agreed to host a traveling solo exhibit of Robert Mapplethorpe's works. Mapplethorpe decided to show a new series that he had explored shortly before his death, \"Robert Mapplethorpe: The Perfect Moment\" curated by Janet Kardon of the Institute of Contemporary Art. Several Trustees of the Corcoran and U.S. Representatives Dick Armey (TX) and Jesse Helms (NC) were horrified when the works were revealed to them, and the museum director, Christina Orr-Cahall succumbed to pressure and cancelled the exhibit, which had already been announced to its members through an exhibition preview invitation. \nThe Coalition of Washington Artists organized a demonstration to protest the Corcoran Gallery's cancellation of the exhibit. An estimated 700 people attended the demonstration.\n\nIn June 1989, pop artist Lowell Blair Nesbitt became involved in the controversy over Mapplethorpe's work. \nIt was at this time that Nesbitt, a long-time friend of Mapplethorpe, revealed that he had a $1.5 million bequest to the museum in his will. Nesbitt publicly promised that if the museum refused to host the exhibition he would revoke his bequest. The Corcoran refused and Nesbitt bequeathed the money to the Phillips Collection instead.\n\nAfter the Corcoran cancelled the Mapplethorpe exhibition, the underwriters of the exhibition went to the nonprofit Washington Project for the Arts, which showed the controversial images in its own space from July 21 to August 13, 1989, to large crowds. The 1990 NEA Appropriations Bill included language against \"obscene\" work.\n\nAs a result of the controversy, more than a dozen artists canceled exhibitions while the director, Christina Orr-Cahall, resigned and moved to the Norton Museum of Art.\n\nIn its final years, the museum and its affiliated art and design college Corcoran School of the Arts and Design together had a staff of about 140 and an operating budget of about $24 million. Revenue came from grants and contributions, admissions fees, tuition, membership dues, gift shop and restaurant sales, and an endowment worth around $30 million. In February 2001, two AOL executives (Robert W. Pittman and Barry Schuler) and their wives donated $30 million to the museum, its largest single donation since its founding.\n\nIn 2014, following decades of financial problems, the Corcoran Trustees chose to break the founder's deed of trust by going to court to have the Corcoran dissolved. Following a court order dissolving the city's oldest independent museum, the trustees gave the former college of art and design, the $200 million Beaux Arts building, and $50 million to George Washington University to renovate the facility and operate the school programs. The 17,000 piece art collection worth $2 billion was donated to the National Gallery of Art. In the beginning of 2018, the director of the Corcoran School of the Arts and Design officially disclosed plans for the National Gallery of Art to bring art back to the second floor of the Flagg building.\n\nFlagg also designed the interior of the building. When one enters the building's front doors on 17th Street, they first enter the 170 ft x 50 ft atrium. The vast space, separated into three connected sections, consists of forty limestone columns and twin skylights (to light the intended display of sculptures). The Beaux-Arts-inspired room rises two interior stories and has housed exhibit space and other uses.\n\nDirectly across the atrium from the front entrance stands the grand staircase, leading to the second floor. Low rise stairs, sixteen feet wide, are watched over by six statues on pedestals atop marble platforms, and lead to a landing halfway to the second floor. Hold onto the brass-topped railing for balance. From the grand staircase one can access the rotunda and the second story level of the atrium, including a bridge that heads across the atrium back towards the direction of the front door. Gallery space exists throughout.\n\nBack on the first floor, three galleries lead from the atrium (originally there were seven). The second floor originally had eight galleries. The rotunda came later, designed by Charles Platt in 1925. Forty eight feet wide, the room's domed ceiling culminates in an oculus skylight. Reminiscent of the Pantheon, the space offers an exquisite entry to the building's Clark Wing. An observer would access a marble floored, square, dark staircase hall with wood panels to reach the Clark Wing galleries.\n\nAt the northern end of the building, the Hemicycle's unusual shape fills the angle created by New York Avenue and 17th Street. The space is the auditorium, being 67 ft x 45 ft with a 300-person capacity. The Salon Doré appears on the building's opposite side. Also referred to as the \"French Room,\" it displays intricate French decorations; it was designed in the early 1700s by Jean‐François‐Thérèse Chalgrin and was moved from Paris to the United States sometime before 1904.\n\nIn 2015, preservationists added the interior portions of the Corcoran Gallery to the National Register of Historic Places (the exterior had been listed in 1971). The interior nomination includes the grand staircase, atrium, rotunda, gallery, and other notable spaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22357361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22357361", "title": "Croatian Film Archive", "text": "Croatian Film Archive\n\nThe Croatian Film Archive () is the national film archive of Croatia. It is a member of the International Federation of Film Archives and of ACE, the Association of European Film Archives and Cinematheques. The archive was founded in 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46641377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46641377", "title": "Dear Socks, Dear Buddy", "text": "Dear Socks, Dear Buddy\n\nDear Socks, Dear Buddy: Kids' Letters to the First Pets is a 1998 children's book written by First Lady of the United States Hillary Rodham Clinton. It concerns the two pets that lived in the White House during the Clinton administration, Socks the cat and Buddy the dog. \n\nThe book includes more than 50 letters written to the First Pets by children and more than 80 photographs of Socks and Buddy. Examples of questions that letters asked include, \"Who do you like best? Mr. Clinton? Mrs. Clinton or Chelsea?\" and, \"How do you like being a dog, Buddy? I like being a person.\" Socks was also asked if he was allowed to watch MTV and Buddy was asked if he ever got petted by the Spice Girls.\n\nThe book also includes several sections of text by Clinton discussing the two pets' habits, as well as the rivalry between them. Clinton also provided a history of the previous pets that had lived in the White House. The text also dispensed some advice on caring for pets and told parents to encourage children to express themselves through writing. \n\nThe last chapter of the book is titled \"A Note on Saving America's Parks and Treasures\".\n\nThe idea for the book originated with her publisher, Simon & Schuster, who were interested in a follow-up to Clinton's best-selling 1996 volume \"It Takes a Village\". It also followed in the pawsteps of prior First Lady Barbara Bush's popular 1990 effort \"Millie's Book\", about the prior White House dog. Plans for \"Dear Socks, Dear Buddy\" were announced in June 1998 and it was stated that Linda Kulman, a reporter based in Washington, would assist Clinton in the writing. \"Book\" magazine would subsequently characterize Kulman's role as that of a ghostwriter.\n\nThe book had a first printing put at somewhere between 400,000 and 500,000 copies. Its actual sales were around 350,000 copies. The book did not sell as well as \"It Takes a Village\" had, in part because the nature of the book was different and in part because Clinton did not engage in the same level of promotional activity for it. The book came out as the Lewinsky scandal turned into the impeachment of Bill Clinton, which contributed to Clinton's lessened efforts in promoting the book.\nClinton received no advance for writing the book. All of her proceeds from book sales and related publishing rights were donated to the National Park Foundation, the official charity of America's National Park Service. The publisher said it would donate some of its proceeds to the foundation as well.\n\nThe foundation was given possession of the copyright to the book, which simplified the tax aspects related to awarding profits to the foundation, thus eliminating some complexities that Clinton had encountered in donating the proceeds of \"It Takes a Village\". \n"}
{"id": "43045936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43045936", "title": "Dewey-free classification", "text": "Dewey-free classification\n\nDewey-free (also Dewey free, Dewey-less, or word-based) refers to library classification schemes developed as alternatives to Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC). Dewey-free systems are often based on the BISAC subject headings developed by the Book Industry Study Group, and are typically implemented in libraries with smaller collections. Instead of using numerical notation to indicate a document's shelving location, Dewey-free systems organize documents alphabetically by natural language words. Dewey-free systems have been implemented in both public and school libraries.\n\nA primary motivation for the development of Dewey-free systems is to eliminate DDC's numerical notation, which many library patrons find intimidating. Abandoning numerical notation in favor of natural language words may also facilitate browsing.\n\nAdoption of Dewey-free classification is often seen as part of a greater trend of using a \"bookstore model\" to deliver library services. This trend gained traction in 1998 with an article by Los Angeles librarian Steve Coffman. While some librarians see this as a beneficial approach that will make patrons more comfortable and increase circulation statistics, others disagree with the approach, particularly as large bookstores such as Borders Group have met severe financial challenges.\n\nMany Dewey-free proponents believe that Dewey is outdated and ill-suited for non-academic environments. DDC organizes documents not only by subject, but also by academic discipline. This leads to materials on the same topic being filed in wildly disparate locations. For example, Dewey places books about railroad trains in both the 380s and the 620s. The discipline-based orientation is also problematic for categorizing interdisciplinary works and non-academic titles, which make up the bulk of most public libraries' non-fiction holdings.\n\nDDC has also faced a number of critiques for its biases. Scholars and catalogers have specifically criticized its marginalization of\ndeveloping countries and continents,\nChristian-centrism,\nracism,\nsexism,\nhomophobia,\nand marginalization of intersex people. Some proponents of Dewey-free systems suggest that abandoning DDC in favor of new schemes may address these problems, but the literature doesn't include any analysis of BISAC Subject Headings for these issues, nor have any Dewey-free libraries documented strategies for addressing these issues within the taxonomies they have devised.\n\nLibrarians who work with children point to additional benefits within their collections. They note that school library workers often have little support and few resources for teaching the DDC system to children. The numbers themselves are often opaque to younger students, who typically don't learn about decimals until late in elementary school.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, public libraries in the United Kingdom and United States designed new \"reader-interest classification\" systems as alternatives to DDC. These systems organized materials in ways that are intuitive to non-academic users and employed modern terminology, resulting in collections that are more browsable. However, a lack of standardization led libraries to abandon these systems. Dewey-free classification schemes can be seen as new cases of reader-interest classification schemes.\n\nIn 2007, the Maricopa County Library District announced that its Gilbert Library would abandon DDC in favor of a BISAC-based system. The library district reported the change as a success, with non-fiction circulation improving sixfold.\n\nIn 2009, the Rangeview Library District became the first library district to fully convert to a BISAC-based scheme. Rangeview's classification system, which is branded as \"WordThink\", is based on BISAC headings.\n\nIn 2011, the librarians at the Ethical Culture School in New York City developed a Dewey-Free system called Metis. The school's novel approach incorporated focus groups of students from Kindergarten through the Fifth Grade in designing the system.\n\nThe Darien Library in Connecticut employs a hybrid approach to classification. While books are still organized by DDC number, DDC categories are \"clumped into eight broad categories,\" known as glades. A glade groups together books from several Dewey classes that Darien librarians feel may be useful to similar groups. For example, the \"Places\" glade is intended for international travellers, and combines books from the 400s (Languages) and 910s (Travel and Geography).\n\nThe Nyack Library used a \"marketplace\" system similar to Darien's glades. However, after complaints from community members, the library reverted to a traditional DDC collection in 2013.\n\nThe King County Library System announced in 2014 that all 48 of its branches will convert their fiction picture book collections to a Dewey-free subject classification system.\n\nThere has been very little formal evaluation of Dewey-free systems, even by libraries that have implemented them.\n\nMany libraries point to an increase in circulation statistics—either for a particular topic or for the non-fiction collection as a whole—as a measure of the success of their Dewey-free systems. However, the correlation between circulation statistics and library classification scheme is not easy to demonstrate. Dewey-free reclassification projects are often undertaken in conjunction with other projects that aim to better merchandise a library's holdings, so it can be very unclear how much of a circulation increase can be attributed to a new classification scheme.\nFurthermore, library scholars typically warn against using circulation statistics as the sole metric of any project's success, because such statistics fail to account for materials used within the library, materials that were circulated but never read, or materials that were circulated but failed to provide users with the information they needed.\n\nCall numbers are generally not indexed by Integrated Library Systems, so the adoption of word-based classification systems has had little impact on information retrieval quality within library catalogs to date.\n\nCritics of the new systems argue that BISAC's broad categories actually impede browsing, as many different subtopics are interspersed with one another. They prefer DDC's arrangement of materials by specific subject. They also argue that many of the issues addressed by Dewey-free systems could be resolved much more easily with improved signage and book labels.\n\nEven proponents of Dewey-free systems note that BISAC-based classification systems would be unsuitable for libraries with large or specialized collections. Critics have also questioned the pedagogical value of Dewey-free classifications, questioning whether library patrons used to a Dewey-free system will have the skills necessary to navigate collections classified according to DDC or Library of Congress Classification.\n\nCritics have also noted that using English words instead of numbers for all classification sends a message that libraries are only interested in serving English speakers.\n"}
{"id": "37213707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37213707", "title": "Direct Ferries", "text": "Direct Ferries\n\nDirect Ferries is a UK-based ferry travel aggregator service. It provides bookings for ferry crossings across Europe and North Africa, \nas well as numerous crossings across the world, including the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, \nthe United States, Canada, Oman, Morocco,\n\nThe company was launched by Howard Davies in 1999 and has been \nrun by Matt Davies since 2010. In 2012, the company achieved 177th place in the Sunday Times International Track 200.\n\nDirect Ferries has reported an increase in cyclists using its service, particularly from Britain to France, after the success of the British \ncycling team in the 2012 London Olympics.\n\nFollowing a management buy-out by Matt Davies in 2014, the company has expanded its services to the Middle East and the United States. Direct Ferries is the first European agent to work with NFC, and Oman based company offering high speed services, making ferry travel in Oman accessible to passengers around the world. In the US, the deal has been signed with some of the biggest ferry operators, as well as BC Ferries and Clipper Vacations in Canada.\n\nDirect Ferries has launched dedicated websites for both, the United States and the Middle East, expanding its services to 29 markets worldwide.\n\nAlong with the ferry booking, the company has partnered with Avios in January 2016, enabling customers to collect points with every crossing they book.\n\nIn April 2016, the mid-market private equity business Livingbridge invested in Direct Ferries to ensure further growth.\n\nThe company reported 35% increase in bookings in 2016, focusing on continuous growth worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "34680762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34680762", "title": "Dundee Farm Ltd v Bambury Holdings Ltd", "text": "Dundee Farm Ltd v Bambury Holdings Ltd\n\nDundee Farm Ltd. v. Bambury Holdings Ltd. (1978) is a case involving the sale of a farm in Bombay, South Auckland and is notable as it is often cited in New Zealand on issues of mistake, and reinforces the English case of Joscelyne v Nissen [1970] 2 QB 86 into NZ case law.\n\nThe vendor's intention was to sell their of farmland. Unfortunately, the subsequent sale agreement was complicated by the fact that the 544 acres was on numerous titles, and by mistake the vendor's solicitors included in the sale agreement a title for a block, on the mistaken belief that these 12 acres were the south western corner of the farm.\n\nIt however transpired that these extra 12 acres were not only not the south western corner of the farm, it was not even near the farm, and was instead the vendor's residential lifestyle block away in Pukekohe.\n\nWhen the vendor notified the purchaser of this mistake, the purchaser refused to settle on the sale contract, upon which the vendor brought an action for rectification and specific performance.\n\nThe High Court of New Zealand ruled that as it was a pure mistake that the extra title was included, and that the purchaser's position had not changed, they ruled in favour of both rectification and for specific performance.\n"}
{"id": "22319522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319522", "title": "EOTD", "text": "EOTD\n\neOTD is the acronym for the ECCMA Open Technical Dictionary. The dictionary is a language-independent database of concepts with associated terms, definitions and images used to unambiguously describe individuals, organizations, locations, goods, services, processes, rules, and regulations. The eOTD is maintained by the Electronic Commerce Code Management Association (ECCMA).\n\nThe eOTD was developed with the support of the Defense Logistics Information Service (DLIS) an agency of the US Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). The eOTD is the first dictionary to be compliant with ISO 22745 (open technical dictionaries).\n\nThe eOTD contains terms, definitions and images linked to concept identifiers. eOTD concept identifiers are used to create unambiguous language independent descriptions of individuals, organizations, locations, goods, services, processes, rules and regulations. The process of using concept identifiers from an external open technical dictionary is a form of semantic encoding compliant with the requirements of ISO 8000-110:2008, the international standard for the exchange of quality master data.\n\nThe eOTD concept identifiers are in the public domain. Using public domain identifiers as metadata creates portable data that can be legally separated from the software application that was used to create it. The dictionary contains concepts from international, national and industry standards including over 400,000 concepts of class (approved item name), property (attribute), units of measure, currency and common enumerated value (e.g., days of the week). The eOTD does not include a class hierarchy or class-property relationships.\n\nCompanies use the eOTD to create data requirement specifications as Identification Guides (IGs) or cataloging templates. These Identification Guides contain the class-property relationships and are used for cataloging, to measure data quality as well as to create requests for data or requests for data validation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898017", "title": "Empire (film magazine)", "text": "Empire (film magazine)\n\nEmpire is a British film magazine published monthly by Bauer Consumer Media of Hamburg based Bauer Media Group. From the first issue in July 1989, the magazine was edited by Barry McIlheney and published by Emap. Bauer purchased Emap Consumer Media in early 2008. Published in the United Kingdom, \"Empire\" organises the annual Empire Awards which were sponsored by Sony Ericsson, and from 2009 sponsored by Jameson. The awards are voted for by readers of the magazine.\n\n\"Empire\" reviews both mainstream films and art films, but feature articles concentrate on the former.\n\nAs well as film news, previews, and reviews, \"Empire\" has some other regular features. Each issue (with the exception of issues 108–113) features a \"Classic Scene\", a transcript from a notable film scene. The first such classic scene to be featured was the \"I could have been a contender\" scene from \"On the Waterfront\".\n\nThe regular \"Top 10\" feature lists \"Empire\"s choice of the top ten examples of something film-related. For example, \"10 Best Chase Scenes\" or \"10 Best Movie Gags in The Simpsons\".\n\nThe \"Re.View\" section covers Blu-ray and DVD news and releases. \"Kim Newman's Movie Dungeon\" is a regular feature in the \"Re.View\" section, in which critic Kim Newman reviews the most obscure releases, mostly low budget horror movies.\n\n\"How Much Is A Pint Of Milk?\" presents celebrities' answers to silly or unusual questions, including the question \"How much is a pint of milk?\" This is intended as a guide to the chosen celebrity's contact with reality, and as such can be more informative than a direct interview by reporting some surprising responses.\n\nEach magazine includes a \"Spine Quote\", in which a relatively challenging quote is printed on the spine of the magazine. There are usually some obvious and obscure links from the quote to the main features of that month's edition. Readers are invited to identify the film source and the links to win a prize.\n\n\"My Movie Mastermind\" is another regular in which a celebrity is given questions about the films they were in or they directed. Celebrities range from Quentin Tarantino and Christopher Lee (who are at the top of the scoreboard) to John Carpenter and Michael Keaton (who are at the bottom of the scoreboard).\n\nA regular feature since issue 167, the Empire Masterpiece is a two-page essay on a film selected by Empire in the \"Re.View\" section. The selection of the films seem to be quite random and follow no specific pattern. Only a few issues since the first masterpiece feature have not featured one – 169, 179, 196, 197, 198 and 246. Issue 240 had director Frank Darabont select 223 masterpieces. \"L.A. Confidential\" was featured twice, once in issue 191 and again in issue 303.\n\nThe films to be featured in this section so far are:\n\"Empire\" published a special 15th anniversary issue in June 2004 by which time the magazine had reviewed 4,240 theatrical films. Nicole Kidman was named \"actress of our lifetime\" and Kevin Spacey was named \"actor of our lifetime\". The 15 most influential films of the preceding 15 years were considered to be:\n\nAs part of its 18th birthday issue published in June 2007 \"Empire\" published a list of top 18-rated moments in film. This list is as follows:\nThey also selected the 50 greatest films rated with an 18 certificate.\n\"Empire\" occasionally poll readers to find out what their favourite films are.\n\nIn 2017, \"Empire\" surveyed five thousand readers to produce a list of the 100 greatest films ever made.\n\nThe list was selected in September 2008 by over 10,000 \"Empire\" readers, 150 film makers and 50 film critics. The list was accompanied by many different covers, each of which went on sale. The top 30 chosen films are listed below.\nThe list's most represented director was Steven Spielberg, who had eleven films in the top 500. The top sixteen directors are listed below. Their highest-ranked film is also provided, as well as its position.\nThe entire list can be found at Empire.\n\nA previous poll, The 201 Greatest Movies of All Time, done by \"Empire\" readers solely, was slightly different. It was conducted in March 2006 and had the following top 30:\nAnother previous poll, also by \"Empire\" readers solely, was done in September 2001 and had this top 30:\nIn June 2005, a poll of 10,000 readers was asked to name the greatest film director of all time. In a list of forty directors, Steven Spielberg was granted the honour of greatest director. The top twenty are ranked as follows:\nIn June 2015, \"Empire\"'s readers named the greatest film characters of all time. The top fifteen characters are listed below.\nAnother previous poll, also by \"Empire\" readers, was conducted in 2008 and had the following top 15:\n\"Empire\" has had ten editors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6150122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6150122", "title": "Gazetteer of Australia", "text": "Gazetteer of Australia\n\nThe Gazetteer of Australia is an index or dictionary of the location and spelling of geographical names across Australia. Geographic names include towns, suburbs and roads, plus geographical features such as hills, rivers, and lakes.\n\nThe index is compiled by the Intergovernmental Committee on Surveying and Mapping (ICSM) from determinations made by state, territory, and Australian government agencies. \n\nThe authorities that work on geographic names in Australia are as follows:\n\nAs of January 2012, there are 370,000 place names in Australia. These are searchable in an online database hosted by Geoscience Australia and the entire data set can be purchased from the same organisation, with the 2010 version being available for download.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6874049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874049", "title": "Google News Archive", "text": "Google News Archive\n\nGoogle News Archive is an extension of Google News providing free access to scanned archives of newspapers and links to other newspaper archives on the web, both free and paid.\n\nSome of the news archives date back to 1700s. There is a timeline view available, to select news from various years.\n\nThe archive went live on June 6, 2006, after Google acquired PaperofRecord.com, originally created by Robert J. Huggins and his team at Cold North Wind, Inc. The acquisition was not publicly announced by Cold North Wind until 2008.\n\nWhile the service initially provided a simple index of other web pages, on September 8, 2008, Google News began to offer indexed content from scanned newspapers. The depth of chronological coverage varies. Since 2008, the entire content of \"The New York Times\" back to its founding in 1851 has been available.\n\nNewspapers were thought to have escaped copyright obligations of news articles because of Google's method of publishing the archives as searchable image files of the actual newspaper pages, rather than as pure text of articles.\n\nIn 2011, Google announced that it would no longer add content to the archive project. On August 14, 2011, without notice, Google made the News Archives home page unavailable. Apparently, the service merged with Google News. Carly Carlioi, an editor at the \"Boston Phoenix\", speculated that Google discontinued the project because they found it harder than expected, for newspapers were more difficult to index than books because of layout complexities. Another cause might have been that the project attracted a lesser audience than expected.\n\nWhile archived newspapers are still available for browsing, keyword searching is not fully functional. On December 16, 2013, Google News employee Stacie Chan wrote in the Google Product Forums that Google News is \"performing a much needed facelift on our News Archive search function\", and that access to archived stories would be limited for several months while \"this new system\" is being built. This was reaffirmed on May 22 and July 30, 2014, when Chan wrote that Google is still \"working on the archives to provide a better user experience\", and \"it's in the works\", and again on December 18, 2014, when Chan wrote that Google \"is currently working on creating a better experience on the Newspaper Archives that should be available in the near future.\"\n\nSome papers formerly included in the News Archive have been removed because of copyright issues. For instance, the archives of the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" disappeared on August 16, 2016, due to a contract between the paper's owner, the Gannett Company, and NewsBank, inc., although the archives were eventually restored.\n\n"}
{"id": "3407090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3407090", "title": "Hut 6", "text": "Hut 6\n\nHut 6 was a wartime section of the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) at Bletchley Park, Buckinghamshire, Britain, tasked with the solution of German Army and Air Force Enigma machine cyphers. Hut 8, by contrast, attacked Naval Enigma. Hut 6 was established at the initiative of Gordon Welchman, and was run initially by Welchman and fellow Cambridge mathematician John Jeffreys.\n\nWelchman's deputy, Stuart Milner-Barry, succeeded Welchman as head of Hut 6 in September 1943, at which point over 450 people were working in the section.\n\nHut 6 was partnered with Hut 3, which handled the translation and intelligence analysis of the raw decrypts provided by Hut 6.\n\nHut 6 was originally named after the building in which the section was located. Welchman says the hut was 20 yards (18m) long by 10 yards (9m) wide, with two large rooms at the far end – and no toilets. Staff had to go to another building. Irene Young recalled that she \"worked in Room 82, though in typical Bletchley fashion there were not eighty-one rooms preceding it\". She was glad to move from the Decoding Room \"where all the operators were constantly having nervous breakdowns on account of the pace of work and the appalling noise\" to the Registration Room which arranged intercepts according to callsign and frequency \n\nAs the number of personnel increased, the section moved to additional buildings around Bletchley Park, but its name was retained, with each new location also being known as 'Hut 6'. The original building was then renamed 'Hut 16'.\n\nJohn Jeffreys was initially in charge of the Hut with Gordon Welchman until May 1940; Jeffreys was diagnosed ill in 1940, and died in 1944. Welchman became official head of section until autumn 1943, subsequently rising to Assistant Director of Mechanisation at Bletchley Park. Hugh Alexander, was a member February 1940 – March 1941 before moving to become head of Hut 8. Stuart Milner-Barry joined early 1940 and was in charge from autumn 1943 to the end of the war.\n\nOne codebreaker concerned with Cryptanalysis of the Enigma, John Herivel, discovered what was soon dubbed the Herivel tip or Herivelismus. For a brief but critical few months from May 1940, the \"tip\", in conjunction with operating shortcomings or \"cillies\", were the main techniques used to solve Enigma. The \"tip\" was an insight into the habits of the German machine operators allowing Hut 6 to easily deduce part of the daily key.\n\nIn 1942, Welchman recruited fellow Marlborough Collegers, Bob Roseveare and Nigel Forward. Roseveare started in the \"Watch\" working on Luftwaffe messages before moving to the \"Quatch\", a small backroom group that decoded non-current messages.\n\nIn Hut 6 were the Machine Room, plus the Decoding Room and Registration Room with mainly female staff under Harold Fletcher, a school and university friend of Gordon Welchman. In 2014 one of these female staff, Mair Russell-Jones, published a posthumous memoir of her work there.\n\nOther notable individuals include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18170761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18170761", "title": "Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66", "text": "Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66\n\nThe Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66 (also variously known as the Indonesian massacres, Indonesian genocide, Indonesian Communist Purge, Indonesian politicide, or the 1965 Tragedy) were large-scale killings and civil unrest that occurred in Indonesia over several months, targeting communist sympathizers, ethnic Chinese and alleged leftists, often at the instigation of the armed forces and government. It began as an anti-communist purge following a controversial attempted \"coup d'état\" by the 30 September Movement in Indonesia. The most widely published estimates were that 500,000 to more than one million people were killed, with some more recent estimates going as high as two to three million. The purge was a pivotal event in the transition to the \"New Order\" and the elimination of the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI) as a political force, with impacts on the global Cold War. The upheavals led to the fall of President Sukarno and the commencement of Suharto's three-decade authoritarian presidency.\n\nThe claims of a \"coup\" attempt by Communists released pent-up communal hatreds; these were fanned by the Indonesian Army, which quickly blamed the PKI. Communists were purged from political, social, and military life, and the PKI itself was disbanded and banned. The massacres began in October 1965, in the weeks following the \"coup\" attempt, and reached their peak over the remainder of the year before subsiding in the early months of 1966. They started in the capital, Jakarta, and spread to Central and East Java, and later Bali. Thousands of local vigilantes and army units killed actual and alleged PKI members. Killings occurred across the country, with the worst in the PKI strongholds of Central Java, East Java, Bali, and northern Sumatra. It is possible that over one million people were imprisoned at one time or another.\n\nSukarno's balancing act of \"Nasakom\" (nationalism, religion and communism) had unravelled. His most significant pillar of support, the PKI, was effectively eliminated by the other two pillars—the army and political Islam; and the army was on the way to unchallenged power. In March 1967, Sukarno was stripped of his remaining power by Indonesia's provisional Parliament, and Suharto was named Acting President. In March 1968, Suharto was formally elected president.\n\nThe killings are skipped over in most Indonesian history textbooks, and have received little introspection by Indonesians, due to their suppression under the Suharto regime. The search for satisfactory explanations for the scale and frenzy of the violence has challenged scholars from all ideological perspectives. The possibility of a return to similar upheavals is cited as a factor in the \"New Order\" administration's political conservatism and tight control of the political system. Vigilance and stigma against a perceived communist threat remained a hallmark of Suharto's doctrine, and it is still in force even today.\n\nDespite a consensus at the highest levels of the US and British governments that it would be necessary \"to liquidate Sukarno\", as related in a CIA memorandum from 1962, and the existence of extensive contacts between anti-communist army officers and the US military establishment – training of over 1,200 officers, \"including senior military figures\", and providing weapons and economic assistance – the CIA denied active involvement in the killings. Declassified US documents in 2017 revealed that the US government had detailed knowledge of the mass killings from the beginning, and was supportive of the actions of the Indonesian Army. US complicity in the killings, which included providing extensive lists of communist party officials to Indonesian death squads, has previously been established by historians and journalists. A top-secret CIA report from 1968 stated that the massacres \"rank as one of the worst mass murders of the 20th century, along with the Soviet purges of the 1930s, the Nazi mass murders during the Second World War, and the Maoist bloodbath of the early 1950s.\"\n\nSupport for Sukarno's presidency under his \"Guided Democracy\" depended on his forced and unstable \"Nasakom\" coalition between the military, religious groups, and communists. The rise in influence and increasing militancy of the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI), and Sukarno's support for it, was a serious concern for Muslims and the military, and tension grew steadily in the early and mid-1960s. The third-largest communist party in the world, the PKI had approximately 300,000 cadres and a full membership of around two million. The party's assertive efforts to speed up land reform frightened those who controlled the land, and threatened the social position of Muslim clerics. Sukarno required government employees to study his Nasakom principles as well as Marxist theory. He had met with Zhou Enlai, Premier of the People's Republic of China, and after this meeting had decided to create a militia, called a Fifth Force, which he intended to control personally. Sukarno ordered weapons from China to equip this Fifth Force. He declared in a speech that he favoured revolutionary groups whether they were nationalist, religious or communist, stating \"I am a friend of the Communists because the Communists are revolutionary people.\" He said at a Non-Aligned Movement summit meeting in Cairo in October 1964 that his current purpose was to drive all of Indonesian politics to the left and thereby to neutralise the \"reactionary\" elements in the army that could be dangerous for the revolution. Sukarno's international policies increasingly reflected his rhetoric.\n\nAs early as 1958, Western powers—in particular the US and the UK—pushed for policies that would encourage the Indonesian Army to act forcefully against the PKI and the Left, which included a covert propaganda campaign designed to damage the reputation of Sukarno and the PKI, and secret assurances along with military and financial support to anti-communist leaders within the army.\n\nOn the evening of 30 September 1965, a group of militants, known as the 30 September Movement, captured and executed six of Indonesia’s top military generals. The movement proclaimed itself as Sukarno’s protectors, issuing a pre-emptive strike to prevent a possible \"coup\" by the \"anti-Sukarno\", pro-Western Council of Generals.\n\nAfter the execution of the generals, the movement’s forces occupied Merdeka Square in Jakarta and the presidential palace. Shortly afterward, however, President Sukarno refused to commit to the movement, for it had captured and assassinated many of his top generals. As the night continued, the movement’s poor leadership began to show, starting with a series of incoherent radio messages. The movement mainly aimed to occupy the main telecommunications building; however, it ignored the east side of the square, which was the location of \"Kostrad\", the armed forces strategic reserve. At the time, Major General Suharto was in control of the reserve, and upon hearing the news of the takeover, he quickly capitalized on the movement’s weaknesses, regaining control of the square without resistance. Following the surrender, the movement’s troops did not take further action. At the same time, the Indonesian military slowly gained influence as Sukarno’s waned, and within days, the government was under the control of Suharto. He immediately deployed troops and dispersed the movement, while trumpeting the movement’s actions as a \"danger\" to the nation.\n\nA military propaganda campaign to link the \"coup\" attempt with the PKI, masterminded by Suharto and the military, began to sweep the country on 5 October. Graphic images and descriptions of the murdered, tortured, and even castrated generals began to circulate the country. Despite falsified information, the campaign was successful, convincing both Indonesian and international audiences that the murders were a PKI attempt to undermine the Indonesian government under President Sukarno. Though the PKI denied involvement, pent-up tension and hatred that had built up over years were released.\n\nEven though the 30 September Movement killed 12 people, Suharto ultimately presented it as a nationwide conspiracy to commit mass murder. Millions of people associated with the PKI, even illiterate peasants from remote villages, were presented as murderers and accomplices of the movement. In early 1966, two Indonesian specialists at Cornell University, Benedict Anderson and Ruth McVey, observed in their Cornell Paper that Suharto's army began the anti-communist campaign well after the 30 September Movement had collapsed. Between the moment that the movement ended and the moment that the army's mass arrests began, three weeks had elapsed in which no violence or trace of civil war occurred, even according to the army itself. Sukarno constantly protested the purge, stating that the army was \"burning down a house to kill a rat\", but he was powerless as Suharto commanded a firm hold on the military.\n\nThe army removed top civilian and military leaders it thought sympathetic to the PKI. The parliament and cabinet were purged of Sukarno loyalists. Leading PKI members were immediately arrested, some summarily executed. Army leaders organised demonstrations in Jakarta during which on 8 October, the PKI Jakarta headquarters was burned down. Anti-Communist youth groups were formed, including the army-backed Indonesian Students' Action Front (KAMI), the Indonesian Youth and Students' Action Front (KAPPI), and the Indonesian University Alumni Action Front (KASI). In Jakarta and West Java, over 10,000 PKI activists and leaders were arrested, including famed novelist Pramoedya Ananta Toer.\n\nThe initial deaths occurred during organised clashes between the army and the PKI, including Indonesian armed forces units who were sympathetic to communism and were trying to forcibly resist General Suharto's crackdown. For example, much of the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and the Police Mobile Brigade Corps were infiltrated up to commander level by the PKI. In early October, forces of the Strategic Command (Suharto's \"Kostrad\"), and the RPKAD paracommandos led by Colonel Sarwo Edhie Wibowo were sent to Central Java, a region with strong Communist allegiances, while troops of uncertain loyalty were ordered out. At the same time, the Siliwangi Division was deployed to guard Jakarta and West Java, both of which, unlike Central and East Java, remained relatively immune to the mass killings. Early fighting in the Central Java highlands and around Madiun suggested the PKI might be able to establish a rival regime centred on these regions. However, widespread fears of a civil war, between factions supported by the United States and China respectively, quickly evaporated, as the forces sent by Suharto took control. Many rebel commanders chose not to fight as Suharto-deployed forces arrived, although resistance came from some, like General Supardjo, for a few more weeks.\n\nAs the Sukarno presidency began to unravel and Suharto began to assert control following the \"coup\" attempt, the PKI's upper national leadership was hunted and arrested with some summarily executed. In early October, PKI chairman Dipa Nusantara Aidit had flown to Central Java, where the \"coup\" attempt had been supported by leftist officers in Yogyakarta, Salatiga, and Semarang. Fellow senior PKI leader Njoto was shot around 6 November, Aidit on 22 November, and First Deputy PKI Chairman M.H. Lukman was killed shortly thereafter.\n\nThe killings started in October 1965 in Jakarta, spread to Central and East Java and later to Bali, and smaller outbreaks occurred in parts of other islands, including Sumatra. The communal tensions and hatreds that had built up were played upon by the Army leadership who characterised Communists as villains, and many Indonesian civilians took part in the killings. The worst massacres were in Central and East Java where PKI support was at its strongest. The situation varied across the country, and the role of the Army has never been fully explained. In some areas the Army organised, encouraged, trained, and supplied civilian groups and local militias. In other areas, communal vigilante action preceded the Army, although in most cases killings did not commence before military units had sanctioned violence by instruction or example. It was in the earlier stages of the killings that the army's direct involvement in clashes with the PKI occurred. By the end of October, groups of devout Muslims joined the purge of Communists, claiming it was their duty to cleanse Indonesia of atheism.\n\nIn some areas, civilian militia knew where to find known Communists and their sympathisers, while in others the Army demanded lists of Communists from village heads. PKI membership was not disguised and most suspects were easily identified within communities. The US Embassy in Jakarta supplied the Indonesian military with lists of up to 5,000 suspected Communists. Although some PKI branches organised resistance and reprisal killings, most went passively to their deaths. Not all victims were PKI members. Often the label \"PKI\" was used to include anyone to the left of the Indonesian National Party (PNI). In other cases victims were suspected or simply alleged Communists or were victims of grievance settling with little or no political motive. Anti-Communist killings were then instigated with youths, assisted by the Army. Most of the victims were not major political figures, and were largely among the poor and lower-middle class such as farmers, plantation laborers, factory workers, students, teachers, artists and civil servants. They were often targeted because they or someone they knew, such as a friend or family member, had joined the PKI or affiliated organizations.\n\nWith very few exceptions, the killings were not spontaneous but carried out with a high degree of organization. Most of the victims were also detainees of the Indonesian Army, making the killings summary executions. The killings were done 'face to face' as in Rwanda or Cambodia, unlike the mechanical methods of killing used by Nazi Germany. The methods of non-mechanised violence and killing included shooting, dismembering alive, stabbing, disembowelling, castration, impaling, strangling and beheading with Japanese-style samurai swords. Firearms and automatic weapons were used on a limited scale, with most of the killings being carried out with knives, sickles, machetes, swords, ice picks, bamboo spears, iron rods and other makeshift weapons. Islamic extremists often paraded severed heads on spikes. Corpses were often thrown into rivers, and at one point officials complained to the Army that the rivers running into the city of Surabaya were clogged with bodies. In areas such as Kediri in East Java, Nahdlatul Ulama youth wing (Ansor Youth Movement) members lined up Communists, cut their throats and disposed of the bodies in rivers. Rows of severed penises were often left behind as a reminder to the rest. The killings left whole sections of villages empty, and the houses of victims or the interned were looted and often handed over to the military.\n\nLocal Chinese were killed in some areas, and their properties looted and burned as a result of anti-Chinese racism, on the excuse that D.N. Aidit had brought the PKI closer to China. In the predominantly Christian islands of Nusa Tenggara, Christian clergy and teachers suffered at the hands of Muslim youth.\n\nAlthough there were occasional and isolated flare-ups until 1969, the killings largely subsided by March 1966, when either there were no more suspects, or authorities intervened. Solo residents said that exceptionally high flooding in March 1966 of the Solo River, considered mystical by the Javanese, signalled the end of the killings.\n\nIn Java, much of the killing was along \"aliran\" (cultural stream) loyalties; the Army encouraged \"santri\" (more devout and orthodox Muslims) among the Javanese to seek out PKI members among the \"abangan\" (less orthodox) Javanese. Conflict that had broken out in 1963, between the Muslim party Nahdlatul Ulama (NU) and the PKI, turned to killing in the second week of October. The Muslim group Muhammadiyah proclaimed in early November 1965 that the extermination of \"Gestapu/PKI\" constituted Holy War (\"Gestapu\" being the military's name for the \"30 September Movement\"), a position that was supported by other Islamic groups in Java and Sumatra. For many youths, killing Communists became a religious duty. Where there had been Communist centres in Central and East Java, Muslim groups portraying themselves as victims of Communist aggression justified the killings by evoking the Madiun Affair of 1948. Roman Catholic students in the Yogyakarta region left their hostels at night to join in the execution of truckloads of arrested Communists.\n\nAlthough, for most of the country, the killings subsided in the first months of 1966, in parts of East Java the killings went on for years. In Blitar, guerrilla action was maintained by surviving PKI members until they were defeated in 1967 and 1968. The mystic Mbah Suro, along with devotees of his Communist-infused traditional mysticism, built an army, but Suro and eighty of his followers were killed in a war of resistance against the Indonesian Army.\n\nMirroring the widening of social divisions across Indonesia in the 1950s and early 1960s, the island of Bali saw conflict between supporters of the traditional Balinese caste system, and those rejecting these traditional values, particularly the PKI. Communists were publicly accused of working towards the destruction of the island's culture, religion, and character, and the Balinese, like the Javanese, were urged to destroy the PKI. Government jobs, funds, business advantage and other spoils of office had gone to the Communists during the final years of Sukarno's presidency. Disputes over land and tenants' rights led to land seizures and killings when the PKI promoted \"unilateral action\". As Indonesia's only Hindu-majority island, Bali did not have the Islamic forces involved in Java, and it was upper-caste PNI landlords who instigated the elimination of PKI members. High Hindu priests called for sacrifices to satisfy spirits angered by past sacrilege and social disruption. Balinese Hindu leader Ida Bagus Oka told Hindus: \"There can be no doubt [that] the enemies of our revolution are also the cruelest enemies of religion, and must be eliminated and destroyed down to the roots.\" Like parts of East Java, Bali experienced a state of near-civil war as Communists regrouped.\n\nThe balance of power was shifted in favour of anti-Communists in December 1965, when personnel from both the Army Para-commando Regiment and 5th Brawijaya Military Region units arrived in Bali after having carried out killings in Java. Led by Suharto's principal troubleshooter, Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, Javanese military commanders permitted Balinese squads to kill until reined in. In contrast to Central Java where the Army encouraged people to kill the \"Gestapu\", Bali's eagerness to kill was so great and spontaneous that, having initially provided logistic support, the Army eventually had to step in to prevent chaos. Sukarno's choice of Bali's provincial governor, Sutedja, was recalled from office and accused of preparing a communist uprising, and his relatives were tracked down and killed. A series of killings similar to those in Central and East Java were led by black-shirted PNI youth. For several months, militia death squads went through villages capturing suspects and taking them away. Hundreds of houses belonging to communists and their relatives were burnt down within one week of the reprisal crusade, with occupants being butchered as they ran from their homes. An early estimate suggested that 50,000 people, including women and children, were killed in this operation alone. The population of several Balinese villages were halved in the last months of 1965. All the Chinese shops in the towns of Singaraja and Denpasar were destroyed and their owners killed after summary stand-up judgements found them to have financially supported the \"Gestapu\". Between December 1965 and early 1966, an estimated 80,000 Balinese were killed, roughly five percent of the island's population at the time, and proportionally more than anywhere else in Indonesia.\n\nPKI-organised movements and campaigns against foreign businesses in Sumatra's plantations provoked quick reprisals against Communists, following the coup attempt. In Aceh, as many as 40,000 were killed, part of the possibly 200,000 deaths across Sumatra. The regional revolts of the late 1950s complicated events in Sumatra as many former rebels were forced to affiliate themselves with Communist organisations to prove their loyalty to the Indonesian Republic. The quelling of the 1950s revolts and 1965 killings were seen by most Sumatrans as a \"Javanese occupation\". In Lampung, another factor in the killings seems to have been Javanese immigration. In West Kalimantan, approximately 18 months after the killings in Java, indigenous pagan Dayaks expelled 45,000 ethnic Chinese from rural areas, killing up to 5,000. The Chinese refused to fight back, since they considered themselves \"a guest on other people's land\" with the intention of trading only.\n\nIslam in Java was divided between Abangan, who mixed Islam with other religions like Hinduism and native religious practices, and the Santri, who followed standard orthodox Islam. Many Abangans were supporters of the Communist Party, and their interests were thus supported by the PKI. They subsequently made up most of the people who were slaughtered in the killings. Abangans were targeted for attacks by Ansor, the youth wing of Nahdlatul Ulama and the Santri with help from the Indonesian army. To avoid being classified as atheist and communists, Abangan Muslims were forced by the Indonesian government to convert to Hinduism and Christianity in the aftermath of the slaughter.\n\nIn Sumatra, youths massacred Javanese plantation labourers who made up the membership of the PKI in the province of North Sumatra.\n\nThe targeting of ethnic Chinese played an important role in the killings in Sumatra and Kalimantan, which have been called genocide. Charles A. Coppel is sharply critical of this characterisation, in which he sees a western media and academics unwilling to face the consequences of an anti-communist agenda that they endorsed, instead scapegoating Indonesian racism and indulging in extravagant and false claims of hundreds of thousands or millions of Chinese killed. Charles Coppel wrote of the distorted coverage in an article titled: \"A genocide that never was: explaining the myth of anti-Chinese massacres in Indonesia, 1965–66\". Coppel sees the same bias in coverage of the May 1998 riots, where the Volunteer Team for Humanity noted non-Chinese looters made up the majority of those who were killed. His thesis continues to inspire debate.\n\nAn estimate is that around 2,000 Chinese Indonesians were killed (out of a total estimated death toll of between 400,000 and 3 million people), with documented massacres taking place in Makassar and Medan and on the island of Lombok. Robert Cribb and Charles A. Coppel noted that \"relatively few\" Chinese were actually killed during the purge while the majority of the dead were native Indonesians. The death toll of Chinese was in the thousands while the death toll of native Indonesians was in the hundreds of thousands. Balinese and Javanese made up the majority of people who were massacred.\n\nIndigenous, non-Muslim, pagan Dayaks expelled 45,000 ethnic Chinese from rural areas, killing 2,000–5,000. The Chinese refused to fight back, since they considered themselves \"a guest on other people's land\" with the intention of trading only.\n\nAlthough the general outline of events is known, much is unknown about the killings, and an accurate and verified count of the dead is unlikely to ever be known. There were few Western journalists or academics in Indonesia at the time, the military was one of the few sources of information, travel was difficult and dangerous, and the regime that approved and oversaw the killings remained in power for three decades. The Indonesian media at the time had been undermined by restrictions under \"Guided Democracy\" and by the \"New Order's\" takeover in October 1966. With the killings occurring at the height of Western fears over Communism during the Cold War, there was little investigation internationally, which would have risked complicating the West's preference for Suharto and the \"New Order\" over the PKI and the \"Old Order\".\n\nIn the first 20 years following the killings, 39 serious estimates of the death toll were attempted. Before the killings had finished, the Indonesian army estimated 78,500 had been killed, while the PKI put the figure at 2 million. The Indonesian army later estimated the number killed to be 1 million. In 1966, Benedict Anderson had set the death toll at 200,000. By 1985 he concluded that a total of 500,000 to 1 million people had been killed. Most scholars now agree that at least half a million were killed, thus more than in any other event in Indonesian history. An armed forces security command estimate from December 1976 put the number at between 450,000 and 500,000.\n\nArrests and imprisonment continued for ten years after the purge. A 1977 Amnesty International report suggested \"about one million\" PKI cadres and others identified or suspected of party involvement were detained. Between 1981 and 1990, the Indonesian government estimated that there were between 1.6 and 1.8 million former prisoners \"at large\" in society. It is possible that in the mid 1970s, 100,000 were still imprisoned without trial. It is thought that as many as 1.5 million were imprisoned at one stage or another. Those PKI members not killed or imprisoned went into hiding while others tried to hide their past. Those arrested included leading politicians, artists and writers such as Pramoedya Ananta Toer, and peasants and soldiers. Those incarcerated in the vast network of prisons and concentration camps faced \"extraordinarily inhumane conditions.\" Many did not survive this first period of detention, dying from malnutrition and beatings. As people revealed the names of underground Communists, often under torture, the numbers imprisoned rose from 1966–68. Methods of torture included severe beatings with makeshift materials like electric cable and large pieces of wood, breaking fingers and crushing toes and feet under the legs of tables and chairs, pulling out fingernails, electric shocks, and burning with molten rubber or cigarettes. Detainees were sometimes forced to watch or listen to the torture of others, including relatives such as spouses or children. Both men and women were subjected to sexual violence while in detention, including rape and electric shocks to the genitals. Those released were often placed under house arrest, had to regularly report to the military, or were banned from Government employment, as were their children.\n\nSukarno's balancing act of \"Nasakom\" (nationalism, religion, communism) had been unravelled. His most significant pillar of support, the PKI, had been effectively eliminated by the other two pillars—the army and political Islam; and the army was on the way to unchallenged power. Many Muslims were no longer trusting of Sukarno, and by early 1966, Suharto began to openly defy Sukarno, a policy which had previously been avoided by army leaders. Sukarno attempted to cling to power and mitigate the new-found influence of the army, although he could not bring himself to blame the PKI for the coup as demanded by Suharto. On 1 February 1966, Sukarno promoted Suharto to the rank of Lieutenant General. The Supersemar decree of 11 March 1966 transferred much of Sukarno's power over the parliament and army to Suharto, ostensibly allowing Suharto to do whatever was needed to restore order. On 12 March 1967, Sukarno was stripped of his remaining power by Indonesia's provisional Parliament, and Suharto named Acting President. On 21 March 1968, the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly formally elected Suharto as president.\n\nSeveral hundred or thousand Indonesian leftists travelling abroad were unable to return to their homeland. Djawoto, the ambassador to China, refused to be recalled and spent the rest of his life outside of Indonesia. Some of these exiles, writers by trade, continued writing. This Indonesian exile literature was full of hatred for the new government and written simply, for general consumption, but necessarily published internationally.\n\nIn December 1965, the US embassy in Jakarta had sent a telegram to Washington stating that without the uprising, \"removal of foreign oil companies would have been a certainty.\" In late 1968, the National Intelligence Estimate for Indonesia reported: \"An essential part of the Suharto government's economic program ... has been to welcome foreign capital back to Indonesia. Already about 25 American and European firms have recovered control of mines, estates, and other enterprises nationalized under Sukarno. Liberal legislation has been enacted to attract new private foreign investment. ... There is substantial foreign investment in relatively untapped resources of nickel, copper, bauxite, and timber. The most promising industry ... is oil.\"\n\nThe killings served as a direct precedent for the genocidal invasion and occupation of East Timor. The same generals oversaw the killing in both situations, and encouraged equally brutal methods—with impunity.\n\nTo Western governments, the killings and purges were seen as a victory over Communism at the height of the Cold War. Western governments and much of the West's media preferred Suharto and the \"New Order\" to the PKI and the increasingly leftist \"Old Order\". The British ambassador, Andrew Gilchrist, wrote to London: \"I never concealed from you my belief that a little shooting in Indonesia would be an essential preliminary to effective change.\" News of the massacre was carefully controlled by Western intelligence agencies. Journalists, prevented from entering Indonesia, relied on the official statements from Western embassies. The British embassy in Jakarta advised intelligence headquarters in Singapore on how the news should be presented: \"Suitable propaganda themes might be: PKI brutality in murdering Generals, ... PKI subverting Indonesia as agents of foreign Communists. ... British participation should be carefully concealed.\"\n\nA headline in \"U.S. News & World Report\" read: \"Indonesia: Hope... where there was once none\". Australian Prime Minister Harold Holt commented in \"The New York Times\", \"With 500,000 to 1 million Communist sympathizers knocked off, I think it is safe to assume a reorientation has taken place.\" The right-wing oilman H. L. Hunt proclaimed Indonesia the sole bright spot for the United States in the Cold War and called the ouster of Sukarno the \"greatest victory for freedom since the last decisive battle of World War II.\" \"Time\" described the suppression of the PKI as \"The West's best news for years in Asia,\" and praised Suharto's regime as \"scrupulously constitutional.\" \"It was a triumph for Western propaganda,\" Robert Challis, a BBC reporter in the area, later reflected. Many Western media reports repeated the Indonesian army's line by downplaying the army's responsibility for and the rational, organised nature of the mass killing, and emphasised the role of civilians instead, invoking the orientalist stereotype of Indonesians as primitive and violent. A \"New York Times\" journalist wrote an article titled \"When a Nation Runs Amok\" explaining that the killings were hardly surprising since they occurred in \"violent Asia, where life is cheap.\"\n\nIn recalling the attitudes of US government officials regarding the killings, State Department intelligence officer Howard Federspiel said that \"no one cared, as long as they were Communists, that they were being butchered.\" Within the United States, Robert F. Kennedy was one of the only prominent individuals to condemn the massacres. In January 1966 he said: \"We have spoken out against the inhuman slaughters perpetrated by the Nazis and the Communists. But will we speak out also against the inhuman slaughter in Indonesia, where over 100,000 alleged Communists have not been perpetrators, but victims?\"\n\nUSSR's Andrei Sakharov called the killings a 'tragic event' and described it as \"an extreme case of reaction, racism and militarism\", but otherwise the Soviet response was relatively muted. This was likely in response to the PKI siding with China in the Sino-Soviet split. Other Communist states issued strong criticism of the killings. The Chinese government stated they were \"heinous and diabolical crimes ... unprecedented in history.\" China also offered refuge to Indonesian Leftists fleeing the violence. One Yugoslav diplomat commented that \"even assuming the guilt of the politburo [PKI leadership], which I do not, does this justify genocide? Kill the Central Committee, but do not kill 100,000 people who do not know and had no part in it [the 30 September Plot].\" The Suharto government was condemned as a \"military fascist regime\" by the government of North Korea.\n\nThe United Nations avoided commenting on the killings. When Suharto returned Indonesia to the UN, communist Albania was the only member state to protest.\n\nWhile the exact role of the United States government during the massacres remains obscured by still sealed government archives pertaining to Indonesia for this period, it is known that, \"at a minimum,\" the US government supplied money and communications equipment to the Indonesian Army that facilitated the mass killings, gave fifty million rupiah to the KAP-Gestapu death squad, and provided targeted names of thousands of alleged PKI leaders to the Indonesian Army. Robert J. Martens, political officer at the US Embassy in Jakarta from 1963 to 1966, told journalist Kathy Kadane in 1990 that he led a group of State Department and CIA officials who drew up the lists of roughly 5,000 Communist Party operatives, which he provided to an army intermediary. Kadane asserts that approval for the release of names came from top U.S. Embassy officials, including US Ambassador to Indonesia, Marshall Green, deputy chief of mission Jack Lydman and political section chief Edward Masters, who all later denied involvement. Martens claimed he acted without approval to avoid red tape at a critical time. The State Department volume \"Foreign Relations of the United States, 1964–1968,\" which the CIA attempted to suppress in 2001, acknowledges that the U.S. Embassy provided lists of communist leaders to Indonesians involved in the purges, and notes that Marshall Green stated in a 1966 airgram to Washington, which was drafted by Martens and approved by Masters, that the lists of communists were \"apparently being used by Indonesian security authorities who seem to lack even the simplest overt information on PKI leadership.\" Scholars have also corroborated the claim that U.S. Embassy officials provided lists of communists to Suharto's forces, who, according to Mark Aarons, \"ensured that those so named were eliminated in the mass killing operations.\" Geoffrey B. Robinson, professor of history at UCLA, asserts that U.S. government officials, among them Marshall Green, \"published memoirs and articles that sought to divert attention from any possible US role, while questioning the integrity and political loyalties of scholars who disagreed with them.\"\n\nRobert Cribb, writing in 2002, claims \"there is considerable evidence that the U.S. encouraged the killings, by both providing funds to anti-communist forces and supplying the Indonesian army with the names of people whom it believed were PKI members. There is no evidence, however, that U.S. intervention significantly increased the scale of the killings.\" Mark Aarons contends that Marshall Green is \"long seen as one of the principal officials involved in encouraging the slaughter.\" Kai Thaler asserts that declassified documents show that \"U.S. officials were accessories to this mass murder\" and \"helped create the conditions for the killings.\" Bradley Simpson, Director of the Indonesia/East Timor Documentation Project at the National Security Archive, contends that \"Washington did everything in its power to encourage and facilitate the army-led massacre of alleged PKI members, and U.S. officials worried only that the killing of the party's unarmed supporters might not go far enough, permitting Sukarno to return to power and frustrate the [Johnson] Administration's emerging plans for a post-Sukarno Indonesia.\" He claims that documents show \"the United States was directly involved to the extent that they provided the Indonesian Armed Forces with assistance that they introduced to help facilitate the mass killings,\" which included the CIA providing small arms from Thailand, and the U.S. government providing monetary assistance and limited amounts of communications equipment, medicine and a range of other items, including shoes and uniforms, to the Indonesian military. Geoffrey B. Robinson posits that, based on documentary evidence, powerful foreign states, in particular the United States, Great Britain and their allies, were instrumental in facilitating and encouraging the Indonesian army's campaign of mass killing, and without such support the killings would not have happened. He elaborates in his 2018 book \"The Killing Season\":\nWestern support for the Indonesian Army solidified as it demonstrated its \"resolve\" through the mass killing campaigns. US President Lyndon B. Johnson's Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy reported to the president that the events since 1 October had been \"a striking vindication of US policy towards Indonesia in recent years: a policy of keeping our hand in the game for the long-term stakes despite recurrent pressure to pull out\" and that it was made clear to the Indonesian army via US Embassy's deputy chief of mission, Francis Joseph Galbraith, that \"Embassy and the USG generally sympathetic with and admiring of what Army doing.\"\n\nThe United States, along with Great Britain and Australia, also played an active role in \"black propaganda operations\" during the killings, which included clandestine radio broadcasts being transmitted into the country that repeated Indonesian Army propaganda as part of a psychological warfare campaign designed to encourage support for the killings and to discredit the PKI.\n\nOf all countries, Swedish arms supplies seem to have been the most substantial. According to a report by an Indonesian refugee in Japan, from early December 1965, Indonesia signed \"a contract with Sweden for an emergency purchase of $10,000,000 worth of small arms and ammunition to be used for annihilating elements of the PKI.\" Concerns about the slaughter at the Swedish Embassy did grow some months later, with Sweden's ambassador openly critical of the campaign of violence, but apparently after the fact.\n\nDocumentary filmmaker Joshua Oppenheimer, director of \"The Act of Killing\" and \"The Look of Silence\", called on the U.S. to account for its role in the killings during a screening of the former for U.S. Congress members. On 10 December 2014, the same day \"The Look of Silence\" was released in Indonesia, Senator Tom Udall (D-NM) introduced a \"Sense of the Senate Resolution\" which condemned the killings and called for the declassification of all documents pertaining to US involvement in the events, noting that \"the U.S. provided financial and military assistance during this time and later, according to documents released by the State Department.\"\n\nDeclassified documents released by the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta in October 2017 show that the U.S. government had detailed knowledge of the massacres from the start, and specifically refer to mass killings ordered by Suharto. The documents also reveal that the U.S. government actively encouraged and facilitated the Indonesian Army's massacres to further its geopolitical interests in the region, and that U.S. officials and diplomats at the embassy kept detailed records of which PKI leaders were being killed. US officials, dismayed at Indonesia's shift towards the left, were \"ecstatic\" over the seizure of power by right-wing generals who proceeded to exterminate the PKI, and were determined to avoid doing anything that might thwart the efforts of the Indonesian Army. The U.S. also withheld credible information which contradicted the Indonesian Army's version of events regarding the abortive coup by junior officers on 30 September 1965, which triggered the killings. On 21 December 1965, the Embassy's first secretary, Mary Vance Trent, sent a cable to the State Department which provided an estimate of 100,000 people killed, and referred to the events as a \"fantastic switch which has occurred over 10 short weeks.\" Bradley Simpson said these previously secret cables, telegrams, letters, and reports \"contain damning details that the US was willfully and gleefully pushing for the mass murder of innocent people.\"\n\nDiscussion of the killings was heavily tabooed in Indonesia and, if mentioned at all, usually called \"peristiwa enam lima\", the incident of '65. Inside and outside Indonesia, public discussion of the killings increased during the 1990s and especially after the fall of Suharto in 1998. Jailed and exiled members of the Sukarno regime, as well as ordinary people, told their stories in increasing numbers. Foreign researchers felt more empowered to publish on the topic, with the end of intimidation by the military regime.\n\nThe killings are skipped over in most Indonesian histories, and have received little introspection by Indonesians and comparatively little international attention. Indonesian textbooks typically depict the killings as a \"patriotic campaign\" that resulted in less than 80,000 deaths. In 2004, the textbooks were briefly changed to include the events, but this new curriculum was abandoned in 2006 following protests from the military and Islamic groups. The textbooks which mentioned the mass killings were subsequently burnt, by order of Indonesia's Attorney General. John Roosa's \"Pretext for Mass Murder\" (2006) was initially banned by the Attorney General's Office. The Indonesian parliament set up a truth and reconciliation commission to analyse the killings, but it was suspended by the Indonesian High Court. An academic conference regarding the killings was held in Singapore in 2009. A hesitant search for mass graves by survivors and family members began after 1998, although little has been found. Over three decades later, great enmity remains in Indonesian society over the events.\n\nThe Supardjo Document is a copy of the personal notes of General Supardjo regarding the 30 September Movement. It is one of the few primary sources of this event and gives insight into the movement from a military perspective, including Supardjo's opinion on what may have caused the movement to fail.\n\nSatisfactory explanations for the scale and frenzy of the violence have challenged scholars from all ideological perspectives. One view attributes the communal hatreds behind the killings to the forcing of parliamentary democracy onto Indonesian society, claiming that such changes were culturally unsuitable and unnecessarily disruptive in the post-independence 1950s. A contrasting view is that when Sukarno and the military replaced the democratic process with authoritarianism, competing interests—i.e., the army, political Islam, and Communism—could not be openly debated, rather they were suppressed and could only be expressed through violence. Conflict resolution methods have broken down, and Muslim groups and the military adopted an \"us or them attitude\", and that when the killings were over, many Indonesians dismissed as something the Communists had deserved. The possibility of a return to similar upheavals is cited as a factor in the \"New Order\" administration's political conservatism and tight control of the political system. Vigilance against a Communist threat remained a hallmark of Suharto's three-decade presidency.\n\nAlthough largely unknown in the West compared to the Vietnam War and various right-wing coups in Latin America, the massacres and Suharto's rise to power are considered by historians to be a major turning point in the Cold War. The massacres were also crucial to the expansion of capitalism in Indonesia. Given US foreign policy goals of stopping the spread of communism and bringing nations into its sphere of influence, the bloody purge which decimated the PKI, the third largest Communist party in the world at the time, was considered a huge victory. Historian John Roosa, after viewing declassified documents released in 2017, notes that much \"of the U.S. foreign policy establishment viewed it as a great victory that they were able to sort of ‘flip’ Indonesia very quickly.\" He also asserts that the US did not simply \"stand by\" and allow the killings to happen, stating \"it's easy for American commentators to fall into that approach, but the U.S. was part and parcel of the operation, strategizing with the Indonesian army and encouraging them to go after the PKI.\"\n\nGeoffrey B. Robinson asserts that while there is no consensus on the matter, some scholars have described the mass killings as a genocide. Jess Melvin claims the 1965–66 massacre constitutes genocide under the legal definition as particular religious and ethnic groups where targeted collectively for their relations to the PKI. She cites Matthew Lippman and David Nersessian stating atheists are covered under the genocide convention, and argues the Indonesian military proscribed the elimination of \"atheists\" and \"unbelievers\" collectively for their association with communism and the PKI, and thus these killings would constitute genocide. Melvin also emphasizes the extermination of the PKI as an act of genocide by pointing out that the PKI themselves identified with a particular religious denomination known as \"Red Islam\" that mixed Islam with communism. She further argues the killings constitute genocide because the PKI constitute an ideologically based \"national group.\"\n\nIn November 2015, the International People’s Tribunal on 1965 Crimes Against Humanity in Indonesia, presided over by seven international judges, was held in The Hague, Netherlands. It was formally established in 2014 by human rights activists, academics, and Indonesian exiles in response to an \"absence of an official domestic process of transitional justice based on truth finding.\" In July 2016, chief judge Zak Yacoob publicly read the tribunal's findings, which called the state of Indonesia directly responsible for the events and guilty of crimes against humanity, blamed Suharto for spreading false propaganda and laying the grounds for the massacres, and concluded that the massacres \"intended to annihilate a section of the population and could be categorized as genocide\". The report also highlighted other allegations which the panel found to be well-founded, including enslavement in labor camps, ruthless torture, systematic sexual violence and forced disappearance. Indonesia rejected the tribunal's ruling; Security Minister Luhut Panjaitan said the killings were \"none of their business, they are not our superiors and Indonesia has its own system.\" The court has no legal authority to issue binding decisions or rulings.\n\nJudge Yacoob stated that \"the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia were all complicit to differing degrees in the commission of these crimes against humanity.\" The judges conclude that the US supported the Indonesian military \"knowing well that they were embarked upon a programme of mass killings,\" which included providing lists of alleged communist party officials to Indonesian security forces with a \"strong presumption that these would facilitate the arrest and/or the execution of those that were named\", where as the UK and Australia repeated false propaganda from the Indonesian Army, even after it became \"abundantly clear that killings and other crimes against humanity were taking place.\" Australia's foreign affairs ministry rejected the conclusion of the tribunal, which it described as a \"human rights NGO\", and denies the country was in any way complicit in the killings. The US and the UK have not responded to the tribunal's findings. Indonesian human-rights lawyer Nursyahbani Katjasungkana called on all three countries to admit their complicity, stating that it had been proved from their various diplomatic communications and could no longer be denied.\n\nDuring Suharto’s regime, the media was heavily influenced and censored to show a ‘certain’ history of the 1965 incident: a history which purely and undoubtedly blamed the PKI for this political tragedy. However, in recent articles such as by ‘The Jakarta Post’, a more in-depth and complex story is recognized by the media offering conflicting views on who the blame should really fall on. A film supporting the New Order's version of events, \"Pengkhianatan G30S/PKI\" (\"Betrayal of Indonesia Communist Party\") was broadcast annually on the government television station TVRI every 30 September. This version was the only one allowed in open discourse in the country. After Suharto's removal from power, many people, including those involved, told other versions of the events in various books and films. One, the documentary film \"The Act of Killing\", included interviews with individuals who had participated in the mass killings, and its companion piece \"The Look of Silence\" follows one grieving family trying to understand why it happened and exposes how those behind the Indonesian massacres still revel in their crimes 50 years on, including boasting on camera how they dismembered, eviscerated, castrated and beheaded alleged communists. The film \"The Year of Living Dangerously\", based around events leading up to the killings, internationally released in 1982, was banned in Indonesia until 1999.\n\nThe killings inspired many novelists to write their own rendition of the event, either on a more local, socio-cultural level, or on a national, political level. Books that were written in Indonesia during the time of the New Order often faced censorship of certain concepts, while books written and published abroad were banned from the country.\n\nJohn Roosa's \"Pretext for Mass Murder\" traces a historical path through the 1965 event, painting a scenario of explanations for what preceded, caused and followed the coup. It focuses on several aspects of the coup such as the incoherence of facts and the incompetence of coup organizers to provide four main interpretations of the coup:(1) the movement as an attempted coup d’etat by the PKI, (2) the movement as a mutiny of junior officers, (3) the movement as an alliance of army officers and the PKI, and (4) the movement as a frame-up of the PKI. It also looks at material previously left unexplored in traditional discussions of the incident to give a reconstruction of the chaos that surrounds this period of time in Indonesian history.\n\nAhmad Tohari's trilogy novel \"The Dancer\" (Ronggeng Dukuh Paruk) depicts a village community caught in a revolution, giving readers a perspective less acknowledged in the more popular account of the massacres. By having its two main characters, Srintil and Rasus, on opposite ends of the revolution, the novel sketches not only the circumstances that could have drawn the greater rural public into communist practices, but also the mindset of the people who were tasked with carrying out the killings. As the novel was published in 1981, certain aspects were censored by the New Order, but all the same, the trilogy provides valuable insight into the grass-root level of the anti-communist coup and the tragedies that followed.\n\nEka Kurniawan's \"Beauty is a Wound\" (2002) weaves history into satire, tragedy and the supernatural to depict the state of the nation before, during and after 1965. There is less focus on the military aspect of the coup, but a good deal of focus on the communists themselves through the form of interpersonal relationships and communist ghosts who could not find peace. Without meaning to, perhaps, the novel also gives readers a glimpse of the economy of Indonesia at the time using the example of a flourishing prostitute business and a temporary swimsuit business, among others. Kurniawan projects his feelings about the revolution and coup by constructing a story of theatrical characters around it and delivers a history of the nation all the way from Dutch occupation to Suharto.\n\nLouise Doughty \"Black Water\" (2016) deals with the 1965 event by exploring them from a European viewpoint. Shifting between California and Indonesia as settings for the novel, the book is written from the perspective of a single man working as an operative for an international company. The novel focuses more on foreign reactions to the coup rather than the coup itself, especially from the foreign journalist community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36975987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36975987", "title": "List of Alcatraz Island features", "text": "List of Alcatraz Island features\n\nThis is a list of Alcatraz Island features as reported by the National Park Service. It includes alternate and historic name variants.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616803", "title": "List of reporting marks: Y", "text": "List of reporting marks: Y\n\n"}
{"id": "26815433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26815433", "title": "Melissa Chiu", "text": "Melissa Chiu\n\nMelissa Chiu (born 1972) is a museum director, curator and author, and the Director of the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, DC.\n\nShe is a board member of the Association of Art Museum Directors, the American Alliance of Museums, and the Museum Association of New York. She is also on the founding Advisory committee for the USC American Academy in China and has participated in the advisory committees for the Gwangju and Shanghai Biennales.\n\nBorn in Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia, in 1972, Chiu was educated in Sydney, where she completed a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Western Sydney and then an MA (Arts Administration) at the College of Fine Arts, University of New South Wales. She later completed a PhD at the University of Western Sydney focusing on Chinese contemporary art in the diaspora.\n\nChiu worked as an independent curator for several years at the beginning of her career. From 1993-1996, she joined the University of Western Sydney Collection at the University of Western Sydney as a curator. in 1996, Chiu collaborated with a group of Asian Australian artists, performers, filmmakers and writers to establish Gallery 4A, a nonprofit contemporary art center devoted to promoting dialogue in the Asia-Pacific region. Chiu was founding Director of Gallery 4A, later renamed the 4A Centre for Contemporary Asian Art. In 2001 she was the curator during the Center's transition to a two-story city owned heritage building in Sydney’s Chinatown.\n\nChiu was appointed Asia Society's Museum Director in 2004 after serving as the curator of contemporary Asian and Asian American art—the first curatorial post of its kind in an American museum. She initiated a number of initiatives at the Asia Society Museum, including the launch of a contemporary art collection to complement the museum's Rockefeller Collection of traditional Asian art.\n\nChiu has curated over thirty international exhibitions mainly focused on the art and artists of Asia. Her major curatorial credits include \"Zhang Huan: Altered States\" (2006) and \"Art and China's Revolution\" (2008) with Zheng Shengtian, one of the first historical appraisals of Chinese art from the 1950s through 1970s and \"Nobody's Fool: Yoshitomo Nara\" (2010) with Miwako Tezuka. She was awarded a Getty Curatorial Research Fellowship in 2004.\n\nShe was the Museum Director of the Asia Society, and its Vice President of Global Art Programs, responsible for programming its Park Avenue museum and future museum facilities under construction in Hong Kong and Houston.\n\nFollowing her 2014 appointment as the first non-American to head the Hirshhorn, Chiu announced the hiring of New York-based Gianni Jetzer as curator-at-large. Jetzer was allowed to maintain his position as a curator for Art Basel, despite the appearance of a conflict of interest.\n\nIn August 2015, Chiu announced that the museum's 40th anniversary celebration would be held at 4 World Trade Center in New York. Philip Kennicott, art and architecture critic of \"The Washington Post\", commented that the decision was \"deeply troubling and raises concern about where Chiu is taking the organization\". The controversy of her decision to move the location of the 40th anniversary to New York from D.C. led to a concern of \"missing out on the chance to cultivate critical donors\" in Washington. \n\nChiu has published in art magazines and journals, and has authored several books, including \"Breakout: Chinese Art Outside China\" (2007), published by Charta and \"Chinese Contemporary Art: 7 Things You Should Know\" (2008), published by AW Asia. Her latest books include \"Contemporary Asian Art\" with Benjamin Genocchio, published by Thames & Hudson and Monacelli Press, and an edited anthology, \"Contemporary Art in Asia: A Critical Reader\", published by MIT Press.\n\nIn 2010, Chiu joined the Sunday Arts television show on PBS WNET to conduct a series of interviews with cultural leaders. Interview subjects have included William Kentridge, Shirin Neshat, Yoko Ono, Tan Dun, Chuck Close and Antony Gormley.\n\nIn addition to her museum work, Chiu is a regular speaker at international conferences and symposia and has delivered lectures at such institutions as Harvard University, Columbia University, Yale University and the China Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing, among others.\n\nChiu is married to Benjamin Genocchio, an art critic accused of sexual harassment and editor-in-chief of Artnet News. In September 2015, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Genocchio had edited the content of Chiu's Wikipedia entry in order to remove negative commentary about her work at the Hirshhorn and to add laudatory statements.Chiu's husband was then ousted in November 2017 from the Armory Show after multiple accusations of sexual harassment were made against him. The allegations extended to Genocchio's time at Louise Blouin Media, Artnet and the Armory. Chiu and her husband co-authored \"Asian Art Now\", originally published in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "38280014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38280014", "title": "Moin Encyclopedic Dictionary", "text": "Moin Encyclopedic Dictionary\n\nMo'in Encyclopedic Dictionary ( \"Farhang-e Mo'īn\") is the second biggest Persian language encyclopedia. It was collected and integrated by Mohammad Mo'in.\n\nThe \"Mo'in Encyclopedia\" was collected during a 19-year period (1947-1966) under the administration of Mohammad Mo'in. After his death in 1971, the encyclopedia has been completed by Jafar Shahidi.\n\nFinally, it was published in 1972 by Amirkabir publications in Iran, in six volumes – four volumes for Persian words and expressions and two volumes for proper nouns.\n\nThe encyclopedia has not been updated since its first publishing, but has been reprinted many times.\n\n"}
{"id": "10107996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10107996", "title": "Naranjal mine", "text": "Naranjal mine\n\nThe Naranjal mine (more commonly known as El Naranjal) is the name of a legendary lost gold mine in the Sierra Mountains of Mexico. Folklorist J. Frank Dobie devoted part of his book \"Apache Gold and Yaqui Silver\" to the story of this legendary lost mine.\n\nThe mine was supposedly located at the bottom of a canyon, beside a river and an abandoned hacienda. Surrounding the site were groves of oranges, hence the name El Naranjal, which means the orange grove in Spanish. Alternately, some legends point to orange-colored gold ore from the mine as a source of the name.\n\nUnlike other lost or legendary mines in this area, there is little hard evidence it ever existed, and may be purely a legend, taken from garbled accounts of the far more popular legendary lost mines of Tayopa.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30439472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30439472", "title": "North West Film Archive", "text": "North West Film Archive\n\nThe North West Film Archive (NWFA, established 1977) in Manchester, is a moving image collection for the North West of England.\n\nThe archive cares for 35,000 items ranging in date from the pioneer days of film in the mid-1890s to video productions of the present day. The work of both the professional and the amateur is collected. The NWFA is a part of the Learning and Research Information Services (library) at Manchester Metropolitan University and is located in Archives+ at Manchester Central Library.\n\nThe North West Film Archive is Britain's largest public film collection outside London. The archive was set up in 1977 and is the home for moving images made in or about Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Cheshire, Merseyside and Cumbria. The region's position at the forefront of industrialisation is reflected in the archive's collection.\n\nThe archive works with colleagues in national and regional film archives throughout the country. In 1994 the NWFA became a member of the International Federation of Film Archives (FIAF) and the archive is also a member of the Film Archive Forum.\n\nThe NWFA collections include; cinema newsreels, documentaries, advertising and promotional information, education and travel films, home videos, corporate videos and regional television programmes. Collections of photographs, taped interviews and original documentation have also been established. The material relates to the Archive's moving image collection and also to the region's film and cinema industries.\n\nThe archive offers access services to users in the public, academic and commercial sectors. Local residents and groups can take advantage of the NWFA's free research, viewing and loan services. Those in higher education can make use of the archives as the collections support academic teaching and research. The NWFA has over twenty years' experience in providing a commercial service to television companies both in the UK and abroad.\n\n\nThe NWFA do public screenings at venues in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150292", "title": "One-hit wonder", "text": "One-hit wonder\n\nA one-hit wonder is any entity that achieves mainstream popularity, often for only one piece of work, and becomes known among the general public solely for that momentary success. The term is most commonly used in regard to music performers with only one top-40 hit single that overshadows their other work. Sometimes, artists dubbed \"one-hit wonders\" in a particular country have had great success in other countries.\n\nIn \"The Billboard Book of One-Hit Wonders,\" music journalist Wayne Jancik defines a one-hit wonder as \"an act that has won a position on [the] national, pop, Top 40 record chart just once.\"\n\nThis formal definition can include acts with greater success outside their lone pop hit and who are not typically considered one-hit wonders, while at the same time excluding acts who have multiple hits which have been overshadowed by one signature song, or those performers who never actually hit the top 40, but had exactly one song achieve mainstream popularity in some other fashion (that is, a \"turntable hit\" or a song that was ineligible for the top-40 charts). One-hit wonders are usually exclusive to a specific market, either a country or a genre; a performer may be a one-hit wonder in one such arena, but have multiple hits (or no hits) in another.\n\nIn 2002, the American cable network VH1 aired a countdown of the VH1's 100 Greatest One-hit Wonders, hosted by William Shatner. It listed musicians with only one American hit, regardless of international success. \n\nThe top ten consisted of:\n\n\nA 2006 television poll, conducted by Channel 4 in the UK, asked viewers to select their favourite one-hit wonder from a shortlist of 60. Respondents could also vote by e-mail to select a song that was not on the original list, if they so wished. The top 10 were: \n\n\nIn 2006, the Australian series \"20 to 1\" aired the episode \"20 to 1: One Hit Wonders\", a list of songs that had been the only one by that artist to have success in Australia.\n\nIn September 2006, New Zealand's terrestrial music channel, C4, aired an episode dedicated to \"One Hit Wonders\" on the weekly theme-based chart show, \"UChoose40\", where the chart was ranked entirely by viewer's votes from the website.\n\nThe top ten ranking are as follows:\n\n\nDeutsche Grammophon and Vox Records have both released albums of classical one-hit wonders. Many of the works on the CDs are from composers who have two or more works that are popular in classical music circles, but have a single work that has become popular outside these circles. The two CDs differ, but the works common to both are:\n\n\nOther examples of classical one-hit wonders are Vittorio Monti's Csárdás, Enrico Toselli's \"Serenata 'Rimpianto' Op.6 No.1\", popularly known as \"Toselli's Serenade\", and Jean Paul Egide Martini's Plaisir d'Amour.\n\nThe term \"one-hit wonder\" is occasionally applied to other media.\nIn the sports world, there are several athletes known to casual sports fans for one event in their careers. Examples include Paul Henderson, a Canadian ice hockey player who scored the deciding goal in the 1972 Summit Series; Mike Jones, an American football player who tackled Kevin Dyson at the one-yard line on the final play of Super Bowl XXXIV; David Tyree, a wide receiver who became famous for a helmet-assisted catch during the waning moments of Super Bowl XLII; Timmy Smith and Mark Rypien, both Washington Redskins stars that ended up out of football shortly after winning Super Bowls XXII and XXVI respectively; Armando Galarraga, a pitcher who is primarily known for one near-perfect game he played in June 2010. NASCAR driver Derrike Cope, who won the 1990 Daytona 500 in a surprise victory after Dale Earnhardt blew a tire on the last lap (though he later won a second Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series race that season at Dover International Speedway); Buster Douglas, who was the first boxer to ever knock Mike Tyson out; and Jimmy Glass, a goalkeeper, who is remembered for scoring a goal in the last seconds of the final day of 1998–99 English Third Division that kept his club in The Football League. His subsequently released biography was titled \"One-Hit Wonder\".\n\nSome athletes have become remembered for a single mistake in their careers as opposed to a triumphant moment. Notable examples of such athletes include Buffalo Bills placekicker Scott Norwood, who is infamous for a missed 47-yard field goal that cost his team the Super Bowl; Bill Buckner, who at the 1986 World Series made a fielding error in which a baseball rolled through his legs; Steve Smith, who scored an own goal near the end of the third period in game 7 of the 1986 Stanley Cup Quarter Finals causing the Edmonton Oilers to lose to the Calgary Flames; and Jim Marshall, who, as part of the Minnesota Vikings, ran 66 yards (mistakenly into his own end zone) and scored a safety for the San Francisco 49ers.\n\nIn tennis, the term \"one-slam wonder\" can be referred towards players who have either won only one Grand Slam singles title during his or her career, or players who have currently only won one Grand Slam singles title but have the potential to win even more in their careers. Andy Roddick is said to have enjoyed a successful tennis career, despite winning only one Grand Slam singles title – the 2003 US Open – in his entire career. Other players who won only one Grand Slam singles title in their entire career include Carlos Moyá, Petr Korda, Gastón Gaudio, Thomas Johansson, Albert Costa, Juan Carlos Ferrero, Anastasia Myskina, Yannick Noah, Gabriela Sabatini, Jana Novotná, Andrés Gómez, Conchita Martinez and Michael Chang.\n\nThe term \"cup of coffee\" is used to describe a baseball or ice hockey player who has only a short stint (i.e., long enough to drink a cup of coffee and not do much else) in Major League Baseball or the National Hockey League respectively and then spend the rest of their careers in the minor leagues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49682620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49682620", "title": "Our Society, Your Life", "text": "Our Society, Your Life\n\nOur Society, Your Life is a 2007 policy statement for the Conservative Party, launched shortly after David Cameron became leader of the party – then in Opposition – in 2005, following a leadership election in that year.\n\nIt has been seen by some, such as Richard Kelly (head of politics at Manchester Grammar School) as a triangulation of Conservative ideology with that of New Labour, and linking into the idea of the Third Way. Kelly says New Labour \"sought to reconcile ... the embedded ideals of Labour with the effects of Thatcherism\". Kelly also says that \"Our Society, Your Life\" \"echoed [Tony] Blair's rejection of the Thatcherite view that there is 'no such thing' as society\":\n... the big idea on which we'll build our plan for government ... is social responsibility. The idea that there is such a thing as society, it's just not the same thing as the state. Social responsibility means that every time we see a problem, we don't just ask what government can do. We ask what people can do, what society can do.\n\nInstead Cameron supported what Kelly describes as the Burkean \"little platoons\": the network of families, churches and voluntary organisations which supposedly bind a society together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2424605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2424605", "title": "Paradisec", "text": "Paradisec\n\nThe Pacific and Regional Archive for Digital Sources in Endangered Cultures (Paradisec) is a cross-institutional project that supports work on endangered languages and cultures of the Pacific and the region around Australia. They digitise reel-to-reel field tapes, have a mass data store and use international standards for metadata description. Paradisec is part of the worldwide community of language archives (Delaman and the Open Language Archives Community). Paradisec's main motivation is to ensure that unique recordings of small languages are themselves preserved for the future, and that researchers consider the future accessibility to their materials from other researchers, community members, or anyone who has an interest in such materials.\n\nAs the number of small languages in the world is reduced by many factors (urbanization, colonial policies, the speakers' desire to learn languages which give access to resources), the tapes which may be their only record become increasingly more valuable. Too many of these recordings are held in poor conditions and are not described in a public catalog. PARADISEC provides the infrastructure to deposit and locate these recordings.\n\nThe collection currently contains roughly 7,800 hours of archived audio materials representing more than 1,100 languages from around 100 countries. This is supplemented by significant numbers of images, videos and text objects. Altogether, the archive contains some 33.5 terabytes of data in more than 163,021 individual files (correct at September 2017).\n\nThe database of archived materials can be freely searched via the Open Languages Archives Community. Direct access to archived recordings requires registration and sometimes needs permission as specified by the depositor.\n\nFor the secure archival of audio files complete with metadata headers, PARADISEC uses the Quadriga system, developed by Cube-Tec, which conforms to the BWF specifications of the European Broadcast Union (EBU). BWF files are archived with a digitally sealed 'header' comprising metadata exported from the Paradisec catalog. This sealed header also acts as a security device and prevents the archived BWF from any unauthorised edits, thus preserving the audio signal for posterity. It is also standard practice to produce smaller, more easily transported mp3 copies of each BWF, for the purpose of access. These too, are archived with the master BWF copies.\n\nA large part of the project is the digitisation of valuable analogue recordings of languages and cultures from the Pacific region that will otherwise deteriorate and become unreadable. Researchers whose materials are represented in these collections include Arthur Capell, Stephen Wurm, Clemens Voorhoeve and Terry Crowley. These recordings may be stored on a variety of formats, but are mainly cassette tapes and reel-to-reel tapes.\n\nAnalogue recordings are digitised at the highest possible fidelity to ensure high-quality digital files result. The current international archive standard for PCM audio files is 24-bit resolution and a sample rate of 96 kHz. PARADISEC employs a standard of 24-bit resolution and 96 kHz sample rate to ensure highest practicable fidelity digital copies are produced.\n\nParadisec is funded by a consortium of four Australian universities, including the Universities of Sydney and Melbourne and the Australian National University, as well as the Australian Research Council and Grangenet. Paradisec's main office and primary ingestion stations are located at the University of Sydney in the Sydney Conservatorium of Music, and a secondary office, comprising further ingestion stations, is situated at the University of Melbourne. The archive is currently headed by Linda Barwick and Nicholas Thieberger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49169", "title": "Penelope", "text": "Penelope\n\nIn Homer's \"Odyssey\", Penelope ( ; , \"Pēnelópeia\", or , \"Pēnelópē\") is the wife of Odysseus, who is known for her fidelity to Odysseus while he was absent, despite having many suitors. Her name has therefore been traditionally associated with marital fidelity.\n\nThe origin of her name is believed by Robert S. P. Beekes to be Pre-Greek and related to \"pēnelops\" (πηνέλοψ) or \"pēnelōps\" (πηνέλωψ), glossed by Hesychius as \"some kind of bird\" (today arbitrarily identified with the Eurasian wigeon, to which Linnaeus gave the binomial \"Anas penelope\"), where \"-elōps\" (-έλωψ) is a common Pre-Greek suffix for predatory animals; however, the semantic relation between the proper name and the gloss is not clear. In folk etymology, \"Pēnelopē\" (Πηνελόπη) is usually understood to combine the Greek word \"pēnē\" (πήνη), \"weft\", and \"ōps\" (ὤψ), \"face\", which is considered the most appropriate for a cunning weaver whose motivation is hard to decipher.\n\nPenelope is the wife of the main character, the king of Ithaca, Odysseus (Ulysses in Roman mythology), and daughter of Icarius of Sparta and his wife Periboea. She only has one son by Odysseus, Telemachus, who was born just before Odysseus was called to fight in the Trojan War. She waits twenty years for the final return of her husband, during which she devises various strategies to delay marrying one of the 108 suitors (led by Antinous and including Agelaus, Amphinomus, Ctessippus, Demoptolemus, Elatus, Euryades, Eurymachus and Peisandros).\n\nOn Odysseus's return, disguised as an old beggar, he finds that Penelope has remained faithful. She has devised tricks to delay her suitors, one of which is to pretend to be weaving a burial shroud for Odysseus's elderly father Laertes and claiming that she will choose a suitor when she has finished. Every night for three years, she undoes part of the shroud, until Melantho, one of twelve unfaithful serving women, discovers her chicanery and reveals it to the suitors.\n\nBecause of her efforts to put off remarriage, Penelope is often seen as a symbol of connubial fidelity. But because Athena wants her \"to show herself to the wooers, that she might set their hearts a-flutter and win greater honor from her husband and her son than heretofore\", Penelope does eventually appear before the suitors (xviii.160–162). As Irene de Jong comments:\n\nAs so often, it is Athena who takes the initiative in giving the story a new direction ... Usually the motives of mortal and god coincide, here they do not: Athena wants Penelope to fan the Suitors’ desire for her and (thereby) make her more esteemed by her husband and son; Penelope has no real motive ... she simply feels an unprecedented impulse to meet the men she so loathes ... adding that she might take this opportunity to talk to Telemachus (which she will indeed do).\nShe is ambivalent, variously asking Artemis to kill her and, apparently, considering marrying one of the suitors. When the disguised Odysseus returns, she announces in her long interview with the disguised hero that whoever can string Odysseus's rigid bow and shoot an arrow through twelve axe heads may have her hand. \"For the plot of the \"Odyssey\", of course, her decision is the turning point, the move that makes possible the long-predicted triumph of the returning hero\".\n\nThere is debate as to whether Penelope is aware that Odysseus is behind the disguise. Penelope and the suitors know that Odysseus (were he in fact present) would easily surpass all in any test of masculine skill, so she may have intentionally started the contest as an opportunity for him to reveal his identity. On the other hand, because Odysseus seems to be the only person (perhaps excepting Telemachus) who can actually use the bow, she could just be further delaying her marriage to one of the suitors.\n\nWhen the contest of the bow begins, none of the suitors are able to string the bow, but Odysseus does, and wins the contest. Having done so, he proceeds to slaughter the suitors—beginning with Antinous whom he finds drinking from Odysseus' cup—with help from Telemachus, Athena and two servants, Eumaeus the swineherd and Philoetius the cowherd. Odysseus has now revealed himself in all his glory (with a little makeover by Athena); yet Penelope cannot believe that her husband has really returned—she fears that it is perhaps some god in disguise, as in the story of Alcmene—and tests him by ordering her servant Eurycleia to move the bed in their bridal-chamber. Odysseus protests that this cannot be done since he made the bed himself and knows that one of its legs is a living olive tree. Penelope finally accepts that he truly is her husband, a moment that highlights their \"homophrosýnē\" (ὁμοφροσύνη, \"like-mindedness\"). Homer implies, that from then on, Odysseus would live a long and happy life together with Penelope and Telemachus, wisely ruling his kingdom and enjoying wide respect and much success.\n\nIn some early sources such as Pindar, Pan's father is Apollo via Penelope. Herodotus (2.145), Cicero (\"ND\" 3.22.56), Apollodorus (7.38) and Hyginus (\"Fabulae\" 224) all make Hermes and Penelope his parents. Pausanias 8.12.5 records the story that Penelope had in fact been unfaithful to her husband, who banished her to Mantineia upon his return. 5th-century AD source \"Dionysiaca\" by Nonnus (14.92) names Penelope of Mantineia in Arcadia Pan's mother. Other sources (Duris of Samos; the Vergilian commentator Servius) report that Penelope slept with all 108 suitors in Odysseus' absence, and gave birth to Pan as a result. This myth reflects the folk etymology that equates Pan's name (Πάν) with the Greek word for \"all\" (πᾶν).\n\nPenelope is recognizable in Greek and Roman works, from Attic vase-paintings—the Penelope Painter is recognized by his representations of her—to Roman sculpture copying or improvising upon classical Greek models, by her seated pose, by her reflective gesture of leaning her cheek on her hand, and by her protectively crossed knees, reflecting her long chastity in Odysseus' absence, an unusual pose in any other figure.\n\nLatin references to Penelope revolved around the sexual loyalty to her absent husband. It suited the marital aspect of Roman society representing the tranquility of the worthy family. She is mentioned by various classical authors including Plautus, Propertius, Horace, Ovid, Martial and Statius. The use of Penelope in Latin texts provided a basis for her ongoing use in the Middle Ages and Renaissance as a representation of the chaste wife. This was reinforced by her being named by Saint Jerome among pagan women famed for their chastity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35657272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35657272", "title": "Primer with Various Instructions", "text": "Primer with Various Instructions\n\nPrimer with Various Instructions (, \"Bukvar s razlichni poucheniya\", better known as the Fish Primer (, \"Riben bukvar\", original spelling: Боукварь съ различны пооученіѧ), was a Bulgarian schoolbook, the first primer (and first book) printed in modern Bulgarian. It is considered by an author to be the first Bulgarian encyclopedia.\n\nThe book was written and published by Petar Beron in 1824. It is one of the most significant secular works of the Bulgarian National Revival. It was the first secular publication in modern Bulgaria.\n\nThe primer was a result of the increasing number of secular schools appearing in Ottoman Bulgaria, as well as Beron's own impressions of Western European systems of education. Until the late 18th century, most schools in Bulgaria were attached to monasteries (so-called \"Cell schools\") and the curriculum virtually consisted of only a Book of Hours, a psalter and the Bible. Students received their education in Old Church Slavonic or Greek, both of which were difficult to understand for those outside the clergy. Beron was aware that this type of education was inefficient, and modeled his ideas for the new Bulgarian schools along the monitorial system and education in natural sciences. The primer was designed as a children's encyclopedia. It was published in the Transylvanian city of Kronstadt in the Austrian Empire (now Brașov, Romania).\n\nThe primer consists of ten sections: \"Foreword\", \"Primer\", \"Prayers\", \"Good advice\", \"Smart responses\", \"Fables\", \"Various stories\", \"Physical tales\" and \"Arithmetic\". All sections from \"Primer\" to \"Smart responses\" contain basic knowledge on language, religion and rhetoric; \"Fables\" includes most of Aesop's eponymous works, and the remaining sections are a collection of famous events from ancient history, studies on plants and animals and mathematical science. Some of the animals are illustrated in a compendium section. The primer earned its nickname, \"Fish Primer\", since one of these illustrations, a whale, appeared on the back of the original edition. The nickname, however, was erroneous, since whales are mammals, not fish.\n\nThe book had an enormous impact on the National Revival and played a key role in laying the foundations of a modern, secular Bulgarian education.\n\n"}
{"id": "36696798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36696798", "title": "Princeton Series in International Economics", "text": "Princeton Series in International Economics\n\nThe Princeton Series in International Economics is a book series published by Princeton University Press. The series editor is Gene Grossman. The series was created in 2003.\n\nThe series includes commissioned works by experts in macroeconomics, international finance and international trade. The books are targeted toward policy professionals in government, business, and international organizations; to scholars working in political science and economics; and to students studying international economics.\n\nTitles in the series include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2795715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795715", "title": "Scale of one to ten", "text": "Scale of one to ten\n\nA scale of one to ten, or scale from one to ten, is a general and largely vernacular concept used for rating things, people, places, ideas, and so on. The scale has 10 as a maximum score, as a denotation of exceptionally high quality or of another attribute, usually accompanying 1 as its minimum, although some common variants have a minimum of 0. Such a scale is similar in function to other rating scales, such as star ratings which are typically out of five.\n\nRatings below 1 or above 10 are common hyperbole. The \"up to eleven\" idiom is an example of this.\n\nThe \"Perfect 10\" score in gymnastics is an example of 10 on such a scale being used to indicate perfection.\n\n"}
{"id": "16230603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16230603", "title": "ShopLocal", "text": "ShopLocal\n\nShoplocal is a marketing and advertising service that builds, hosts and maintains catalogs and online weekly ads exclusively for big-box store retailers. Its partners include U.S. retailers in the circular space, namely the brands of Ace Hardware, Kohls, Office Depot, Michael's, TrueValue, Target, Lowe's, Staples, Jo-Ann, CVS Pharmacy and Walgreens. ShopLocal SmartMedia services can then take catalogs and weekly ads and serve them up to customers via interactive, localized banner advertising that can be run anywhere on the Internet. \n\nThe company was founded as SalesHound.com, LLC in March 1999, and was renamed CrossMedia Services, Inc. on July 30, 2001.\nIn 2004, TKG Holdings, in a joint venture equally owned by Gannett Company, Knight Ridder (now owned by The McClatchy Company) and Tribune Company, acquired CrossMedia Services for US$75 million. The venture investors in Crossmedia Services were Trident Capital, Gabriel Venture Partners and River Cites Capital. In 2006, adjustments were made to ownership: Gannett Company (42.5%), Tribune Company (42.5%), The McClatchy Company (15%). On July 8, 2008 Gannett acquired both Tribune's 42.5 percent share for $22.3 million and McClatchy's 15 percent share for $7.9 million, making ShopLocal 100 percent owned by Gannett. Shoplocal is now part of TEGNA Digital, and has merged with PointRoll to create Cofactor Digital. In December of 2016, Liquidus, a Chicago based digital media/ad tech agency purchased CoFactor.\n\n"}
{"id": "13200719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13200719", "title": "Subject indexing", "text": "Subject indexing\n\nSubject indexing is the act of describing or classifying a document by index terms or other symbols in order to indicate what the document is about, to summarize its content or to increase its findability. In other words, it is about identifying and describing the subject of documents. Indexes are constructed, separately, on three distinct levels: terms in a document such as a book; objects in a collection such as a library; and documents (such as books and articles) within a field of knowledge.\n\nSubject indexing is used in information retrieval especially to create bibliographic indexes to retrieve documents on a particular subject. Examples of academic indexing services are Zentralblatt MATH, Chemical Abstracts and PubMed. The index terms were mostly assigned by experts but author keywords are also common.\n\nThe process of indexing begins with any analysis of the subject of the document. The indexer must then identify terms which appropriately identify the subject either by extracting words directly from the document or assigning words from a controlled vocabulary. The terms in the index are then presented in a systematic order.\n\nIndexers must decide how many terms to include and how specific the terms should be. Together this gives a depth of indexing.\n\nThe first step in indexing is to decide on the subject matter of the document. In manual indexing, the indexer would consider the subject matter in terms of answer to a set of questions such as \"Does the document deal with a specific product, condition or phenomenon?\". As the analysis is influenced by the knowledge and experience of the indexer, it follows that two indexers may analyze the content differently and so come up with different index terms. This will impact on the success of retrieval.\n\nAutomatic indexing follows set processes of analyzing frequencies of word patterns and comparing results to other documents in order to assign to subject categories. This requires no understanding of the material being indexed. This therefore leads to more uniform indexing but this is at the expense of the true meaning being interpreted. A computer program will not understand the meaning of statements and may therefore fail to assign some relevant terms or assign incorrectly. Human indexers focus their attention on certain parts of the document such as the title, abstract, summary and conclusions, as analyzing the full text in depth is costly and time consuming An automated system takes away the time limit and allows the entire document to be analyzed, but also has the option to be directed to particular parts of the document.\n\nThe second stage of indexing involves the translation of the subject analysis into a set of index terms. This can involve extracting from the document or assigning from a controlled vocabulary. With the ability to conduct a full text search widely available, many people have come to rely on their own expertise in conducting information searches and full text search has become very popular. Subject indexing and its experts, professional indexers, catalogers, and librarians, remains crucial to information organization and retrieval. These experts understand controlled vocabularies and are able to find information that cannot be located by full text search. The cost of expert analysis to create subject indexing is not easily compared to the cost of hardware, software and labor to manufacture a comparable set of full-text, fully searchable materials. With new web applications that allow every user to annotate documents, social tagging has gained popularity especially in the Web.\n\nOne application of indexing, the book index, remains relatively unchanged despite the information revolution.\n\nExtraction indexing involves taking words directly from the document. It uses natural language and lends itself well to automated techniques where word frequencies are calculated and those with a frequency over a pre-determined threshold are used as index terms. A stop-list containing common words (such as \"the\", \"and\") would be referred to and such stop words would be excluded as index terms.\n\nAutomated extraction indexing may lead to loss of meaning of terms by indexing single words as opposed to phrases. Although it is possible to extract commonly occurring phrases, it becomes more difficult if key concepts are inconsistently worded in phrases. Automated extraction indexing also has the problem that, even with use of a stop-list to remove common words, some frequent words may not be useful for allowing discrimination between documents. For example, the term glucose is likely to occur frequently in any document related to diabetes. Therefore use of this term would likely return most or all the documents in the database. Post-co-ordinated indexing where terms are combined at the time of searching would reduce this effect but the onus would be on the searcher to link appropriate terms as opposed to the information professional. In addition terms that occur infrequently may be highly significant for example a new drug may be mentioned infrequently but the novelty of the subject makes any reference significant. One method for allowing rarer terms to be included and common words to be excluded by automated techniques would be a relative frequency approach where frequency of a word in a document is compared to frequency in the database as a whole. Therefore a term that occurs more often in a document than might be expected based on the rest of the database could then be used as an index term, and terms that occur equally frequently throughout will be excluded.\nAnother problem with automated extraction is that it does not recognise when a concept is discussed but is not identified in the text by an indexable keyword.\n\nAn alternative is assignment indexing where index terms are taken from a controlled vocabulary. This has the advantage of controlling for synonyms as the preferred term is indexed and synonyms or related terms direct the user to the preferred term. This means the user can find articles regardless of the specific term used by the author and saves the user from having to know and check all possible synonyms. It also removes any confusion caused by homographs by inclusion of a qualifying term. A third advantage is that it allows the linking of related terms whether they are linked by hierarchy or association, e.g. an index entry for an oral medication may list other oral medications as related terms on the same level of the hierarchy but would also link to broader terms such as treatment. Assignment indexing is used in manual indexing to improve inter-indexer consistency as different indexers will have a controlled set of terms to choose from. Controlled vocabularies do not completely remove inconsistencies as two indexers may still interpret the subject differently.\n\nThe final phase of indexing is to present the entries in a systematic order. This may involve linking entries. In a pre-coordinated index the indexer determines the order in which terms are linked in an entry by considering how a user may formulate their search. In a post-coordinated index, the entries are presented singly and the user can link the entries through searches, most commonly carried out by computer software. Post-coordination results in a loss of precision in comparison to pre-coordination \n\nIndexers must make decisions about what entries should be included and how many entries an index should incorporate. The depth of indexing describes the thoroughness of the indexing process with reference to exhaustivity and specificity \n\nAn exhaustive index is one which lists all possible index terms. Greater exhaustivity gives a higher recall, or more likelihood of all the relevant articles being retrieved, however, this occurs at the expense of precision. This means that the user may retrieve a larger number of irrelevant documents or documents which only deal with the subject in little depth. In a manual system a greater level of exhaustivity brings with it a greater cost as more man hours are required. The additional time taken in an automated system would be much less significant. At the other end of the scale, in a selective index only the most important aspects are covered. Recall is reduced in a selective index as if an indexer does not include enough terms, a highly relevant article may be overlooked. Therefore indexers should strive for a balance and consider what the document may be used. They may also have to consider the implications of time and expense.\n\nThe specificity describes how closely the index terms match the topics they represent An index is said to be specific if the indexer uses parallel descriptors to the concept of the document and reflects the concepts precisely. Specificity tends to increase with exhaustivity as the more terms you include, the narrower those terms will be.\n\nHjørland (2011) found that theories of indexing is at the deepest level connected to different theories of knowledge:\n\nRationalist theories of indexing (such as Ranganathan's theory) suggest that subjects are constructed logically from a fundamental set of categories. The basic method of subject analysis is then \"analytic-synthetic\", to isolate a set of basic categories (=analysis) and then to construct the subject of any given document by combining those categories according to some rules (=synthesis). Empiricist theories of indexing are based on selecting similar documents based on their properties, in particular by applying numerical statistical techniques. Historicist and hermeneutical theories of indexing suggest that the subject of a given document is relative to a given discourse or domain, why the indexing should reflect the need of a particular discourse or domain. According to hermeneutics is a document always written and interpreted from particular horizon. The same is the case with systems of knowledge organization and with all users searching such systems. Any question put to such a system is put from a particular horizon. All those horizons may be more or less in consensus or in conflict. To index a document is to try to contribute to the retrieval of “relevant” documents by knowing about those different horizons. Pragmatic and critical theories of indexing (such as Hjørland, 1997) is in agreement with the historicist point of view that subjects are relative to specific discourses but emphasizes that subject analysis should support given goals and values and should consider the consequences of indexing one way or another. These theories believe that indexing cannot be neutral and that it is a wrong goal to try to index in a neutral way. Indexing is an act (and computer based indexing is acting according to the programmers intentions). Acts serve human goals. Libraries and information services also serve human goals, why their indexing should be done in a way that supports these goals as much as possible. At a first glance this looks strange because the goals of libraries and information services is to identify any document or piece of information. Nonetheless is any specific way of indexing always supporting some kind of uses at the expense of other. The documents to be indexed intend to serve some specific purposes in a community. Basically the indexing should intend serving the same purposes. Primary and secondary documents and information services are parts of the same overall social system. In such a system different theories, epistemologies, worldviews etc. may be at play and users need to be able to orient themselves and to navigate among those different views. This calls for a mapping of the different epistemologies in the field and classification of the single document into such a map. Excellent examples of such different paradigms and their consequences for indexing and classification systems are provided in the domain of art by Ørom (2003) and in music by Abrahamsen (2003).\n\nThe core of indexing is, as stated by Rowley & Farrow to evaluate a papers contribution to knowledge and index it accordingly. Or, with the words of Hjørland (1992, 1997) to index its informative potentials.\n\n\"In order to achieve good consistent indexing, the indexer must have a thorough appreciation of the structure of the subject and the nature of the contribution that the document is making to the advancement of knowledge.\" (Rowley & Farrow, 2000, p. 99).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25728565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25728565", "title": "Swiss Institute of Comparative Law", "text": "Swiss Institute of Comparative Law\n\nThe Swiss Institute of Comparative Law ( (ISDC), ) is an agency of the federal administration of Switzerland charged with research and consultancy in comparative law. \n\nIts principal mission is to furnish opinions about foreign law to the administration, the courts and the public. It also operates a publicly accessible research library, which holds 360,000 volumes and served 6,000 visitors in 2008.\n\nThe institute was founded through federal statute in 1978. It is located on the campus of the University of Lausanne and is administratively attached to the Federal Department of Justice and Police. It employs a staff of about 30 researchers, librarians and clerical personnel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7899884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7899884", "title": "Test Site", "text": "Test Site\n\nTest Site was an art installation, that was displayed in the turbine hall of Tate Modern in London, UK, between October 2006 and 9 April 2007. \"Test Site\" was designed like Carsten Höller, and was the seventh commission of the series of works in the turbine hall sponsored by Unilever known as \"The Unilever Series\".\n\nThe exhibit consisted of a series of metal slides. There were a total of five slides, two starting on the second floor, and one on each floor after that up to the 5th floor. The slides were composed of metal and fibreglass, and covered all the way around.\n\nVisitors could slide down the slides of the installation free, but timed entry tickets were required for all but the second floor slides.\n\n"}
{"id": "884435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884435", "title": "The Cure for Insomnia", "text": "The Cure for Insomnia\n\nThe Cure for Insomnia, directed by John Henry Timmis IV, is a 1987 experimental film which was, according to \"Guinness World Records\", the longest running film at the time. This record has since been surpassed by several other films. At 5,220 minutes long (87 hours, or 3 days and 15 hours) in length, the film has no plot, instead consisting of artist L. D. Groban reading his 4,080-page poem \"A Cure for Insomnia\" over the course of three and a half days, spliced with occasional clips from heavy metal and pornographic videos.\n\nIt was first played in its entirety at The School of the Art Institute in Chicago, Illinois, from January 31 to February 3, 1987, in one continuous showing. It has not been released on DVD or other home video formats and all known copies are considered as lost. \n\n"}
{"id": "1144372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144372", "title": "Thomson Local", "text": "Thomson Local\n\nThomson Local is a local business telephone directory, published up until 2016 in the United Kingdom by Thomson Directories Ltd from its former head office at Thomson House in Farnborough, Hampshire. \n\nIt is the principal rival (and for the 1980s and some of the 1990s the sole rival) to the Yellow Pages (published by Thomson as the Thomson Yellow Pages until it was sold off to the privatised BT).\n\nThe printed directory was distributed without charge to households and businesses, reaching some 22 million homes and businesses at its peak. \n\nAs of 2016 the company ceased the production and delivery of printed directories, opting instead to offer their services digitally. \n\nThomson Local is a focused local area directory which has continually innovated with features such as colour and knock-out white advertisements. It was the first such directory in the UK to contain added value features such as local maps, local guides, and additional useful information beyond the actual business listings themselves.\n\nThomson Directories Ltd was originally formed to publish the Thomson Local in 1980 by The Thomson Corporation (after it had sold off its Thomson Yellow Pages business) and Dun & Bradstreet, in partnership. After trials in several areas, the Thomson Local was first published throughout Great Britain in 1981. It was owned by Seat Pagine Gialle S.p.A. of Italy until both companies fell into administration in August 2013. Thomson Local's assets were purchased by telephone data company Corporate Media Partners, preserving more than 300 jobs but with 170 redundancies.\n\nIn the 1990s, the company expanded its operations to include its own online directory in the shape of thomsonlocal.com and a range of partner implementations supplying classified and keyword based listings to companies such as MSN, StreetMap, Pipex and many others and many others.\n\nIn July 2010, Thomson Local signed a multi-year agreement to become the UK's first re-seller of adCenter, the pay-per-click platform for Microsoft's search engine Bing. Later that year, the company launched the thomsonlocal.com app for iPhone which has since been discontinued. \n\nAs of 2017 Thomson Local operates from their new head office in the Templer building of Farnborough Business Park overlooking Farnborough Airport. \n\n"}
{"id": "22827248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22827248", "title": "United States Naval Institute v. Charter Communications, Inc.", "text": "United States Naval Institute v. Charter Communications, Inc.\n\nUnited States Naval Institute v. Charter Communications, Inc., 936 F.2d 692 (2d Cir. 1991), is a U.S. federal court case. A contract case, it discusses the impropriety of punitive damages and favoring the theory of efficient breach.\n\nU.S. Naval Institute, as the assignee for the book \"The Hunt for Red October\", sued Charter Communications and Berkley Publishing Group for breach of a licensing contract. The contract was an exclusive license to publish a paperback edition of the book, not sooner than October 1985. The publishers breached this contract by initiating retail sales on September 15, 1985. Early sales were substantial enough to put the book near the top of paperback best seller lists before the end of September.\n\nNaval lost its suit for a preliminary injunction to prevent these sales. The District Court ruled that Berkeley had not breached the contract, because it was to ship before the agreed publication date, which was industry custom. However, the Circuit court reversed this holding and determined that the contract was breached.\n\nOn remand, the trial court concluded that the damages Naval was entitled to not merely actual damages for copyright infringement, but also recovery of profits wrongfully received by Berkeley (in the month of September) for that infringement.\n\nNo. Damages for breach of contract are supposed to compensate the injured party for the loss caused by the breach. Those are measured by the plaintiff's actual loss.\n\n\nThe object behind contract remedies is to compensate, not to punish. Punitive damages are only recoverable from a breach of contract if the conduct that constitutes the breach is also a tort [Subsection 355, Restatement (Second) of Contracts].\n"}
{"id": "32834692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32834692", "title": "ViXra", "text": "ViXra\n\nviXra is an electronic e-print archive set up by independent physicist Philip Gibbs as an alternative to the dominant arXiv service operated by Cornell University.\n\nAlthough dominated by physics and mathematics submissions, viXra aims to cover topics across the whole scientific community. It accepts submissions without requiring authors to have an academic affiliation and without any threshold for quality. The e-prints on viXra are grouped into seven broad categories: physics, mathematics, computational science, biology, chemistry, humanities, and other areas. Anyone may post anything on viXra, though house rules do prohibit “vulgar, libellous, plagiaristic or dangerously misleading” content. As a result, the site has a reputation among physicists for hosting \"material of no interest\". Physicist Gerard 't Hooft writes, \"When a paper is published in viXra, it is usually a sign that it is not likely to contain acceptable results. It may, but the odds against that are considerable\".\n\nGibbs' original motivation for starting the archive was to cater for researchers who believed that their preprints had been unfairly rejected or reclassified by the arXiv moderators. As of 2013 it had over 4000 preprints and in January, 2018 the number had grown to 21,883.\n\n"}
{"id": "3449668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3449668", "title": "Walch's Tasmanian Almanac", "text": "Walch's Tasmanian Almanac\n\nWalch's Tasmanian Almanac was an almanac produced in Hobart by J Walch and Sons from the 1850s until 1980.\n\nIt had a range of variant titles in the time that it was published, but was commonly known as \"Walch's Almanac\"\n\nAlso known as the 'red book', included detailed information about Tasmania for the current year, and all regions and towns of the state.\n\nIt was a valuable resource of historical information about Tasmania.\n\nExtensive use of the information has been collated and indexed by and for Genealogical societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30476118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30476118", "title": "Zuqnin Chronicle", "text": "Zuqnin Chronicle\n\nThe Zuqnin Chronicle is a chronicle written in Syriac concerning the events from Creation to CE. The fourth, historiographically important, part of the chronicle provides a detailed account of life of non-Muslims in Upper Mesopotamia, Egypt, Palestine during and after the Muslim conquest of Syria. It was most probably produced in the Zuqnin Monastery near Amida (the modern Turkish city of Diyarbakır) on the upper Tigris. The work is preserved in a single handwritten manuscript, \"Cod. Vat.\" 162. This is now in the Vatican (shelf mark Vatican Syriac 162).\n\nIt consists of four parts. The first part reaches to the epoch of Constantine the Great, and is in the main an epitome of the \"Eusebian Chronicle\". The second part reaches to Theodosius II and follows closely the \"Ecclesiastical History\" of Socrates of Constantinople; while the third, extending to Justin II, reproduces the second part of the \"History\" of John of Ephesus (of interest because this part is lost elsewhere). The fourth part is not, like the others, a compilation but the original work of the author and reaches to the year 774-775, apparently the date when he was writing.\n\nThe scholar Assemani ascribed it to Dionysius of Tel Mahre, another Syrian chronologist of the late eighth century (hence, \"Chronicle of Pseudo-Dionysius\"; a name now not generally accepted). On the publication of the fourth part of the chronicle by M Chabot, it was shown by Theodor Nöldeke, and Nau, that Assemani had been mistaken, and that the chronicle in question was the work of an earlier writer. This writer was most probably the stylite monk Joshua, at Zuqnin.\n\nThe author was an amateur historian, and his aim was moral instruction, not history \"as such\". His work most clearly depended on earlier works, and has thus be accused of plagiarism. However all points to him being honest in what he recounted.\n\n\"Cod. Vat.\" 162 is the autograph, and in fact the first draft of the manuscript. No further recension, or copy, is known.\n\n"}
