{"id": "187481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187481", "title": "APT (Debian)", "text": "APT (Debian)\n\nAdvanced Package Tool, or APT, is a free software user interface that works with core libraries to handle the installation and removal of software on Debian, Ubuntu and other Linux distributions. APT simplifies the process of managing software on Unix-like computer systems by automating the retrieval, configuration and installation of software packages, either from precompiled files or by compiling source code.\n\nApt is a collection of tools distributed in a package named \"apt\". A significant part of apt is defined in a C++ library of functions; apt also includes command-line programs for dealing with packages, which use the library. Three such programs are codice_1, codice_2 and codice_3. They are commonly used in examples of apt because they are simple and ubiquitous. The codice_1 package is of \"important\" priority in all current Debian releases, and is therefore installed in a default Debian installation. Apt can be considered a front-end to codice_5, friendlier than the older codice_6 front-end. While codice_5 performs actions on individual packages, apt tools manage relations (especially dependencies) between them, as well as sourcing and management of higher-level versioning decisions (release tracking and version pinning).\n\nAPT is often hailed as one of Debian's best features, which Debian developers attribute to the strict quality controls in Debian's policy.\n\nA major feature in APT is the way it calls dpkg — it does topological sorting of the list of packages to be installed or removed and calls dpkg in the best possible sequence. In some cases, it utilizes the --force options in dpkg. However, it only does this when it is unable to calculate how to avoid the reason dpkg requires the action to be forced.\n\nThe user indicates one or more packages to be installed. Each package name is phrased as just the name portion of the package, not a fully qualified filename (for instance, in a Debian system, libc6 would be the argument provided, not libc6_1.9.6-2.deb). Notably, apt automatically gets and installs packages upon which the indicated package depends (if necessary). This was an original distinguishing characteristic of apt-based package management systems, as it avoided installation failure due to missing dependencies, a type of dependency hell.\n\nAnother such distinction is remote repository retrieval of packages. apt uses location configuration file (/etc/apt/sources.list) to locate the desired packages, which might be available on the network or a removable storage medium, for example, and retrieve them, and also obtain information about available (but not installed) packages.\n\napt provides other command options to override decisions made by apt-get's conflict resolution system. One option is to force a particular version of a package. This can downgrade a package and render dependent software inoperable, so the user must be careful.\n\nFinally, the apt_preferences mechanism allows the user to create an alternative installation policy for individual packages.\n\nThe user can specify packages by POSIX regular expression.\n\nAPT searches its cached list of packages and lists the dependencies that must be installed or updated.\n\nAPT retrieves, configures and installs the dependencies automatically.\n\nTriggers are the treatment of deferred actions.\n\nUsage modes of apt and apt-get that facilitate updating installed packages include:\n\n\n/etc/apt has the apt configuration folders and files.\n\n\"apt-config\" is the APT Configuration Query program. codice_8 shows the configuration.\n\n\nAPT relies on the concept of repositories in order to find software and resolve dependencies. For apt, a repository is a directory containing packages along with an index file. This can be specified as a networked or CDROM location. The Debian project keeps a central repository of over 25,000 software packages ready for download and installation.\n\nAny number of additional repositories can be added to APT's \"sources.list\" configuration file (/etc/apt/sources.list) and then be queried by APT. Graphical front-ends often allow modifying sources.list more simply (apt-setup). Once a package repository has been specified (like during the system installation), packages in that repository can be installed without specifying a source and will be kept up-to-date automatically.\n\nIn addition to network repositories, compact discs and other storage media (USB keydrive, hard disks...) can be used as well, using apt-cdrom or adding file:/ to the source list file. Apt-cdrom can specify a different folder than a cd-rom, using the -d option (i.e. a hard disk or a USB keydrive). The Debian CDs available for download contain Debian repositories. This allows non-networked machines to be upgraded. Also one can use apt-zip.\n\nProblems may appear when several sources offer the same package(s). Systems that have such possibly conflicting sources can use APT pinning to control which sources should be preferred.\n\nThe \"APT pinning\" feature allows administrators to force APT to choose particular versions of packages which may be available in different versions from different repositories. This allows administrators to ensure that packages are not upgraded to versions which may conflict with other packages on the system, or that have not been sufficiently tested for unwelcome changes.\n\nIn order to do this, the \"pins\" in APT's \"preferences\" file (/etc/apt/preferences) must be modified, although graphical front-ends often make pinning simpler.\n\nSeveral other front-ends to APT exist, which provide more advanced installation functions and more intuitive interfaces. These include:\n\nAPT front-ends can:\n\nAPT front-ends can list the dependencies of packages being installed or upgraded, ask the administrator if packages recommended or suggested by newly installed packages should be installed too, automatically install dependencies and perform other operations on the system such as removing obsolete files and packages.\n\nThe original effort that led to the apt-get program was the dselect replacement project known by its codename \"deity\". This project was commissioned by Brian White, the Debian Release Manager at the time. The very first functional version of apt-get was called dpkg-get and was only intended to be a test program for the core library functions that would underpin the new UI.\n\nMuch of the original development of APT was done on IRC, so records have been lost. The 'Deity Creation Team' mailing list archives include only the major highlights.\n\nThe Deity name was abandoned as the official name for the project due to concerns over the religious nature of the name. The APT name was eventually decided after considerable internal and public discussion. Ultimately the name was proposed on IRC, accepted and then finalized on the mailing lists.\n\nAPT was introduced in 1998 and original test builds were circulated on IRC. The first Debian version that included it was Debian 2.1, released on 9 March 1999.\n\nIn the end the original goal of the Deity project of replacing the dselect user interface (UI) was a failure. Work on the UI portion of the project was abandoned (the UI directories were removed from the CVS system) after the first public release of apt-get. The response to APT as a dselect method and a command line utility was so great and positive that all development efforts focused on maintaining and improving the tool. It was not until much later that several independent people built UIs on top of libapt-pkg.\n\nEventually, a new team picked up the project, began to build new features and released version 0.6 of APT which introduced the Secure APT feature, using strong cryptographic signing to authenticate the package repositories.\n\nAPT was originally designed as a front-end for dpkg to work with Debian's .deb packages. A version of APT modified to also work with the RPM Package Manager system was released as APT-RPM. The Fink project has ported APT to Mac OS X for some of its own package management tasks, and APT is also available in OpenSolaris.\n\napt-file is a command, packaged separately from APT, to find which package includes a specific file, or to list all files included in a package on remote repositories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756", "title": "An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding", "text": "An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\n\nAn Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding is a book by the Scottish empiricist philosopher David Hume, published in English in 1748. It was a revision of an earlier effort, Hume's \"A Treatise of Human Nature\", published anonymously in London in 1739–40. Hume was disappointed with the reception of the \"Treatise\", which \"fell dead-born from the press,\" as he put it, and so tried again to disseminate his more developed ideas to the public by writing a shorter and more polemical work.\n\nThe end product of his labours was the \"Enquiry\". The \"Enquiry\" dispensed with much of the material from the \"Treatise\", in favor of clarifying and emphasizing its most important aspects. For example, Hume's views on personal identity do not appear. However, more vital propositions, such as Hume's argument for the role of habit in a theory of knowledge, are retained.\n\nThis book has proven highly influential, both in the years that would immediately follow and today. Immanuel Kant points to it as the book which woke him from his self-described \"dogmatic slumber.\" The \"Enquiry\" is widely regarded as a classic in modern philosophical literature.\n\nThe argument of the \"Enquiry\" proceeds by a series of incremental steps, separated into chapters which logically succeed one another. After expounding his epistemology, Hume explains how to apply his principles to specific topics.\n\nIn the first section of the Enquiry, Hume provides a rough introduction to philosophy as a whole. For Hume, philosophy can be split into two general parts: natural philosophy and the philosophy of human nature (or, as he calls it, \"moral philosophy\"). The latter investigates both actions and thoughts. He emphasizes in this section, by way of warning, that philosophers with nuanced thoughts will likely be cast aside in favor of those whose conclusions more intuitively match popular opinion. However, he insists, precision helps art and craft of all kinds, including the craft of philosophy.\n\nNext, Hume discusses the distinction between impressions and ideas. By \"impressions\", he means sensations, while by \"ideas\", he means memories and imaginings. According to Hume, the difference between the two is that ideas are less \"vivacious\" than impressions. For example, the idea of the taste of an orange is far inferior to the impression (or sensation) of actually eating one. Writing within the tradition of empiricism, he argues that impressions are the source of all ideas.\n\nHume accepts that ideas may be either the product of mere sensation, or of the imagination working in conjunction with sensation. According to Hume, the creative faculty makes use of (at least) four mental operations which produce imaginings out of sense-impressions. These operations are \"compounding\" (or the addition of one idea onto another, such as a horn on a horse to create a unicorn); \"transposing\" (or the substitution of one part of a thing with the part from another, such as with the body of a man upon a horse to make a centaur); \"augmenting\" (as with the case of a giant, whose size has been augmented); and \"diminishing\" (as with Lilliputians, whose size has been diminished). (Hume 1974:317) In a later chapter, he also mentions the operations of \"mixing\", \"separating\", and \"dividing\". (Hume 1974:340) \n\nHowever, Hume admits that there is one objection to his account: the problem of \"The Missing Shade of Blue\". In this thought-experiment, he asks us to imagine a man who has experienced every shade of blue except for one (see Fig. 1). He predicts that this man will be able to divine the color of this particular shade of blue, despite the fact that he has never experienced it. This seems to pose a serious problem for the empirical account, though Hume brushes it aside as an exceptional case by stating that one may experience a novel idea that itself is derived from combinations of previous impressions. (Hume 1974:319)\n\nIn this chapter, Hume discusses how thoughts tend to come in sequences, as in trains of thought. He explains that there are at least three kinds of associations between ideas: \"resemblance\", \"contiguity\" in space-time, and \"cause-and-effect\". He argues that there must be some \"universal principle\" that must account for the various sorts of connections that exist between ideas. However, he does not immediately show what this principle might be. (Hume 1974:320-321)\n\nIn the first part, Hume discusses how the objects of inquiry are either \"relations of ideas\" or \"matters of fact\", which is roughly the distinction between analytic and synthetic propositions. The former, he tells the reader, are proved by demonstration, while the latter are given through experience. (Hume 1974:322) In explaining how matters of fact are entirely a product of experience, he dismisses the notion that they may be arrived at through \"a priori\" reasoning. For Hume, every effect only follows its cause arbitrarily—they are entirely distinct from one another. (Hume 1974:324)\n\nIn part two, Hume inquires into how anyone can justifiably believe that experience yields any conclusions about the world:\n\nHe shows how a satisfying argument for the validity of experience can be based neither on demonstration (since \"it implies no contradiction that the course of nature may change\") nor experience (since that would be a circular argument). (Hume 1974:330-332) Here he is describing what would become known as the problem of induction.\n\nFor Hume, we assume that experience tells us something about the world because of \"habit or custom\", which human nature forces us to take seriously. This is also, presumably, the \"principle\" that organizes the connections between ideas. Indeed, one of the many famous passages of the \"Enquiry\" is on the topic of the incorrigibility of human custom. In Section XII, \"Of the academical or sceptical philosophy\", Hume will argue, \n\nIn the second part, he provides an account of beliefs. He explains that the difference between belief and fiction is that the former produces a certain feeling of confidence which the latter doesn't. (Hume 1974:340)\n\nThis short chapter begins with the notions of probability and chance. For him, \"probability\" means a \"higher chance\" of occurring, and brings about a higher degree of subjective expectation in the viewer. By \"chance\", he means all those particular comprehensible events which the viewer considers possible in accord with their experience. However, further experience takes these equal chances, and forces the imagination to observe that certain chances arise more frequently than others. These gentle forces upon the imagination cause the viewer to have strong beliefs in outcomes. This effect may be understood as another case of \"custom or habit\" taking past experience and using it to predict the future. (Hume 1974:346-348)\n\nBy \"necessary connection\", Hume means the power or force which necessarily ties one idea to another. He rejects the notion that any sensible qualities are necessarily conjoined, since that would mean we could know something prior to experience. Unlike his predecessors, Berkeley and Locke, Hume rejects the idea that volitions or impulses of the will may be inferred to necessarily connect to the actions they produce by way of some sense of the power of the will. He reasons that, 1. if we knew the nature of this power, then the mind-body divide would seem totally unmysterious to us; 2. if we had immediate knowledge of this mysterious power, then we would be able to intuitively explain why it is that we can control some parts of our bodies (e.g., our hands or tongues), and not others (e.g., the liver or heart); 3. we have no immediate knowledge of the powers which allow an impulse of volition to create an action (e.g., of the \"muscles, and nerves, and animal spirits\" which are the immediate cause of an action). (Hume 1974:353-354) He produces like arguments against the notion that we have knowledge of these powers as they affect the mind alone. (Hume 1974:355-356) He also argues in brief against the idea that causes are mere occasions of the will of some god(s), a view associated with the philosopher Nicolas Malebranche. (Hume 1974:356-359)\n\nHaving dispensed with these alternative explanations, he identifies the source of our knowledge of necessary connections as arising out of \"observation of constant conjunction of certain impressions across many instances\". In this way, people know of necessity through rigorous custom or habit, and not from any immediate knowledge of the powers of the will. (Hume 1974:361)\n\nHere Hume tackles the problem of how liberty may be reconciled with metaphysical necessity (otherwise known as a compatibilist formulation of free will). Hume believes that all disputes on the subject have been merely verbal arguments—that is to say, arguments which are based on a lack of prior agreement on definitions. He first shows that it is clear that most events are deterministic, but human actions are more controversial. However, he thinks that these too occur out of necessity since an outside observer can see the same regularity that he would in a purely physical system. To show the compatibility of necessity and liberty, Hume defines liberty as the ability to act on the basis of one's will e.g. the capacity to will one's actions but not to will one's will. He then shows (quite briefly) how determinism and free will are compatible notions, and have no bad consequences on ethics or moral life.\n\nHume insists that the conclusions of the Enquiry will be very powerful if they can be shown to apply to animals and not just humans. He believed that animals were able to infer the relation between cause and effect in the same way that humans do: through learned expectations. (Hume 1974:384) He also notes that this \"inferential\" ability that animals have is not through reason, but custom alone. Hume concludes that there is an innate faculty of instincts which both beasts and humans share, namely, the ability to reason experimentally (through custom). Nevertheless, he admits, humans and animals differ in mental faculties in a number of ways, including: differences in memory and attention, inferential abilities, ability to make deductions in a long chain, ability to grasp ideas more or less clearly, the human capacity to worry about conflating unrelated circumstances, a sagely prudence which arrests generalizations, a capacity for a greater inner library of analogies to reason with, an ability to detach oneself and scrap one's own biases, and an ability to converse through language (and thus gain from the experience of others' testimonies). (Hume 1974:385, footnote 17.)\n\nThe next topic which Hume strives to give treatment is that of the reliability of human testimony, and of the role that testimony plays a part in epistemology. This was not an idle concern for Hume. Depending on its outcome, the entire treatment would give the epistemologist a degree of certitude in the treatment of miracles.\n\nTrue to his empirical thesis, Hume tells the reader that, though testimony does have some force, it is never quite as powerful as the direct evidence of the senses. That said, he provides some reasons why we may have a basis for trust in the testimony of persons: because a) human memory can be relatively tenacious; and b) because people are inclined to tell the truth, and ashamed of telling falsities. Needless to say, these reasons are only to be trusted to the extent that they conform to experience. (Hume 1974:389)\n\nAnd there are a number of reasons to be skeptical of human testimony, also based on experience. If a) testimonies conflict one another, b) there are a small number of witnesses, c) the speaker has no integrity, d) the speaker is overly hesitant or bold, or e) the speaker is known to have motives for lying, then the epistemologist has reason to be skeptical of the speaker's claims. (Hume 1974:390)\n\nThere is one final criterion that Hume thinks gives us warrant to doubt any given testimony, and that is f) if the propositions being communicated are miraculous. Hume understands a miracle to be any event which contradicts the laws of nature. He argues that the laws of nature have an overwhelming body of evidence behind them, and are so well demonstrated to everyone's experience, that any deviation from those laws necessarily flies in the face of all evidence. (Hume 1974:391-392)\n\nMoreover, he stresses that talk of the miraculous has no surface validity, for four reasons. First, he explains that in all of history there has never been a miracle which was attested to by a wide body of disinterested experts. Second, he notes that human beings delight in a sense of wonder, and this provides a villain with an opportunity to manipulate others. Third, he thinks that those who hold onto the miraculous have tended towards barbarism. Finally, since testimonies tend to conflict with one another when it comes to the miraculous—that is, one man's religious miracle may be contradicted by another man's miracle—any testimony relating to the fantastic is self-denunciating. (Hume 1974:393-398)\n\nStill, Hume takes care to warn that historians are generally to be trusted with confidence, so long as their reports on facts are extensive and uniform. However, he seems to suggest that historians are as fallible at interpreting the facts as the rest of humanity. Thus, if every historian were to claim that there was a solar eclipse in the year 1600, then though we might at first naively regard that as in violation of natural laws, we'd come to accept it as a fact. But if every historian were to assert that Queen Elizabeth was observed walking around happy and healthy after her funeral, and then interpreted that to mean that they had risen from the dead, then we'd have reason to appeal to natural laws in order to dispute their interpretation. (Hume 1974:400-402)\n\nHume continues his application of epistemology to theology by an extended discussion on heaven and hell. The brunt of this chapter allegedly narrates the opinions, not of Hume, but of one of Hume's anonymous friends, who again presents them in an imagined speech by the philosopher Epicurus. His friend argues that, though it is possible to trace a cause from an effect, it is not possible to infer unseen effects from a cause thus traced. The friend insists, then, that even though we might postulate that there is a first cause behind all things—God—we can't infer anything about the afterlife, because we don't know anything of the afterlife from experience, and we can't infer it from the existence of God. (Hume 1974:408)\n\nHume offers his friend an objection: if we see an unfinished building, then can't we infer that it has been created by humans with certain intentions, and that it will be finished in the future? His friend concurs, but indicates that there is a relevant disanalogy that we can't pretend to know the contents of the mind of God, while we can know the designs of other humans. Hume seems essentially persuaded by his friend's reasoning. (Hume 1974:412-414)\n\nThe first section of the last chapter is well organized as an outline of various skeptical arguments. The treatment includes the arguments of atheism, Cartesian skepticism, \"light\" skepticism, and rationalist critiques of empiricism. Hume shows that even light skepticism leads to crushing doubts about the world which - while they ultimately are philosophically justifiable - may only be combated through the non-philosophical adherence to custom or habit. He ends the section with his own reservations towards Cartesian and Lockean epistemologies.\n\nIn the second section he returns to the topic of hard skepticism by sharply denouncing it.\n\nHe concludes the volume by setting out the limits of knowledge once and for all. \"\"When we run over libraries, persuaded of these principles, what havoc must we make? If we take in our hand any volume; of divinity or school metaphysics, for instance; let us ask, \"Does it contain any abstract reasoning concerning quantity or number?\" No. \"Does it contain any experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence?\" No. Commit it then to the flames: for it can contain nothing but sophistry and illusion.\"\"\n\nThe criteria Hume lists in his examination of the validity of human testimony are roughly upheld in modern social psychology, under the rubric of the communication-persuasion paradigm. Supporting literature includes: the work of social impact theory, which discusses persuasion in part through the number of persons engaging in influence; as well as studies made on the relative influence of communicator credibility in different kinds of persuasion; and examinations of the trustworthiness of the speaker.\n\nThe \"custom\" view of learning can in many ways be likened to associationist psychology. This point of view has been subject to severe criticism in the research of the 20th century. Still, testing on the subject has been somewhat divided. Testing on certain animals like cats have concluded that they do not possess any faculty which allow their minds to grasp an insight into cause and effect. However, it has been shown that some animals, like chimpanzees, were able to generate creative plans of action to achieve their goals, and thus would seem to have a causal insight which transcends mere custom.\n\n"}
{"id": "23562080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23562080", "title": "BEdita", "text": "BEdita\n\nBEdita is an open source web development framework that features a Content Management System (CMS) out-of-the-box.\n\nCurrent version is \"3.1.5\", released on 5 March 2012 under Affero General Public License version 3.\nA preview and \"unstable\" version is also available: \"3.2.beta populus\", released on 5 March 2012 under the same GPL license.\n\nBEdita is built upon the PHP development framework CakePHP.\n\nBEdita is both a content management system and a web development framework.\n\nIn the words of the authors, BEdita is a \"modular framework that features a back-end Content Management System out-of-the-box\".\n\nBEdita is built upon the well-known PHP development framework CakePHP: as a framework itself, BEdita actually extends CakePHP adding many features through more controllers and helpers and the Smarty templating engine. It also combines some presentation technologies, such as JQuery, with the aim to supply a set of ready to use tools.\n\nFrom CakePHP BEdita derives the Model–view–controller paradigm: the multi-tier architecture assures the separation of data modelling, data flow/control and its visual presentation.\nInside BEdita every information is stored in an object oriented manner. Upon this abstraction, the developer can build as many custom relations as needed by the project.\nBEdita is also a complete content management system, since it already comes with a multi-language back office application, able to manage several kinds of data: the CMS presents a number of modules, each related to a type of content.\nIt is able to handle documents, multimedia objects and galleries, events, news, address books, blogs, bibliographies, newsletters and more out of the box.\n\nAll this content is managed in multiple languages, geo-localized and organized through different strategies: hierarchic tree, custom categories and \"tags\".\n\nFor major release 3, BEdita has been rewritten from the ground up: all the previous versions were not publicly available under an open source license.\n\nThe very first public release of a version 3 \"beta\" took place in May 2009.\nOn 17 November 2009 a stable version of BEdita – 3.0 codename Betula – was released under Affero General Public License version 3, freely downloadable on the official web site www.bedita.com and some common open-source online networks (Sourceforge, Freshmeat or Ohloh).\n\nBEdita was created and is currently developed by two Italian companies, ChannelWeb srl and Chialab srl.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "540801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540801", "title": "Behaviorism", "text": "Behaviorism\n\nBehaviorism (or behaviourism) is a systematic approach to understanding the behavior of humans and other animals. It assumes that all behaviors are either reflexes produced by a response to certain stimuli in the environment, or a consequence of that individual's history, including especially reinforcement and punishment, together with the individual's current motivational state and controlling stimuli. Although behaviorists generally accept the important role of inheritance in determining behavior, they focus primarily on environmental factors.\nBehaviorism combines elements of philosophy, methodology, and psychological theory. It emerged in the late nineteenth century as a reaction to depth psychology and other traditional forms of psychology, which often had difficulty making predictions that could be tested experimentally. The earliest derivatives of Behaviorism can be traced back to the late 19th century where Edward Thorndike pioneered the law of effect, a process that involved strengthening behavior through the use of reinforcement.\n\nDuring the first half of the twentieth century, John B. Watson devised methodological behaviorism, which rejected introspective methods and sought to understand behavior by only measuring observable behaviors and events. It was not until the 1930s that B. F. Skinner suggested that private events—including thoughts and feelings—should be subjected to the same controlling variables as observable behavior, which became the basis for his philosophy called \"radical behaviorism.\" While Watson and Ivan Pavlov investigated the stimulus-response procedures of classical conditioning, Skinner assessed the controlling nature of consequences and also its potential effect on the antecedents (or discriminative stimuli) that strengthens behavior; the technique became known as operant conditioning.\n\nSkinner's radical behaviorism has been highly successful experimentally, revealing new phenomena with new methods, but Skinner’s dismissal of theory limited its development. Theoretical behaviorism recognized that a historical system, an organism, has a state as well as sensitivity to stimuli and the ability to emit responses. Indeed, Skinner himself acknowledged the possibility of what he called “latent” responses in humans, even though he neglected to extend this idea to rats and pigeons. Latent responses constitute a repertoire, from which operant reinforcement can select. \n\nThe application of radical behaviorism—known as applied behavior analysis—is used in a variety of settings, including, for example, organizational behavior management, to the treatment of mental disorders, such as autism and substance abuse. In addition, while behaviorism and cognitive schools of psychological thought may not agree theoretically, they have complemented each other in cognitive-behavior therapies, which have demonstrated utility in treating certain pathologies, including simple phobias, PTSD, and mood disorders.\n\nThere is no universally agreed-upon classification, but some titles given to the various branches of behaviorism include:\n\nTwo subtypes are:\n\nB. F. Skinner proposed radical behaviorism as the conceptual underpinning of the experimental analysis of behavior. This view differs from other approaches to behavioral research in various ways but, most notably here, it contrasts with methodological behaviorism in accepting feelings, states of mind and introspection as behaviors subject to scientific investigation. Like methodological behaviorism it rejects the reflex as a model of all behavior, and it defends the science of behavior as complementary to but independent of physiology. Radical behaviorism overlaps considerably with other western philosophical positions such as American pragmatism.\n\nThis essentially philosophical position gained strength from the success of Skinner's early experimental work with rats and pigeons, summarized in his books \"The Behavior of Organisms\" and \"Schedules of Reinforcement\". Of particular importance was his concept of the operant response, of which the canonical example was the rat's lever-press. In contrast with the idea of a physiological or reflex response, an operant is a class of structurally distinct but functionally equivalent responses. For example, while a rat might press a lever with its left paw or its right paw or its tail, all of these responses operate on the world in the same way and have a common consequence. Operants are often thought of as species of responses, where the individuals differ but the class coheres in its function-shared consequences with operants and reproductive success with species. This is a clear distinction between Skinner's theory and S–R theory.\n\nSkinner's empirical work expanded on earlier research on trial-and-error learning by researchers such as Thorndike and Guthrie with both conceptual reformulations—Thorndike's notion of a stimulus–response \"association\" or \"connection\" was abandoned; and methodological ones—the use of the \"free operant\", so called because the animal was now permitted to respond at its own rate rather than in a series of trials determined by the experimenter procedures. With this method, Skinner carried out substantial experimental work on the effects of different schedules and rates of reinforcement on the rates of operant responses made by rats and pigeons. He achieved remarkable success in training animals to perform unexpected responses, to emit large numbers of responses, and to demonstrate many empirical regularities at the purely behavioral level. This lent some credibility to his conceptual analysis. It is largely his conceptual analysis that made his work much more rigorous than his peers', a point which can be seen clearly in his seminal work \"Are Theories of Learning Necessary?\" in which he criticizes what he viewed to be theoretical weaknesses then common in the study of psychology. An important descendant of the experimental analysis of behavior is the Society for Quantitative Analysis of Behavior.\n\nAs Skinner turned from experimental work to concentrate on the philosophical underpinnings of a science of behavior, his attention turned to human language with his 1957 book \"Verbal Behavior\" and other language-related publications; \"Verbal Behavior\" laid out a vocabulary and theory for functional analysis of verbal behavior, and was strongly criticized in a review by Noam Chomsky.\n\nSkinner did not respond in detail but claimed that Chomsky failed to understand his ideas, and the disagreements between the two and the theories involved have been further discussed. Innateness theory is opposed to behaviorist theory which claims that language is a set of habits that can be acquired by means of conditioning. According to some, the behaviorist account is a process which would be too slow to explain a phenomenon as complicated as language learning. What was important for a behaviorist's analysis of human behavior was not language acquisition so much as the interaction between language and overt behavior. In an essay republished in his 1969 book \"Contingencies of Reinforcement\", Skinner took the view that humans could construct linguistic stimuli that would then acquire control over their behavior in the same way that external stimuli could. The possibility of such \"instructional control\" over behavior meant that contingencies of reinforcement would not always produce the same effects on human behavior as they reliably do in other animals. The focus of a radical behaviorist analysis of human behavior therefore shifted to an attempt to understand the interaction between instructional control and contingency control, and also to understand the behavioral processes that determine what instructions are constructed and what control they acquire over behavior. Recently, a new line of behavioral research on language was started under the name of relational frame theory.\n\nBehaviourism focuses on one particular view of learning: a change in external behaviour achieved through using reinforcement and repetition (Rote learning) to shape behavior of learners. Skinner found that behaviors could be shaped when the use of reinforcement was implemented. Desired behavior is rewarded, while the undesired behavior is not rewarded. Incorporating behaviorism into the classroom allowed educators to assist their students in excelling both academically and personally. In the field of language learning, this type of teaching was called the audio-lingual method, characterised by the whole class using choral chanting of key phrases, dialogues and immediate correction.\n\nWithin the behaviourist view of learning, the \"teacher\" is the dominant person in the classroom and takes complete control, evaluation of learning comes from the teacher who decides what is right or wrong. The learner does not have any opportunity for evaluation or reflection within the learning process, they are simply told what is right or wrong.\nThe conceptualization of learning using this approach could be considered \"superficial\" as the focus is on external changes in behaviour i.e. not interested in the internal processes of learning leading to behaviour change and has no place for the emotions involved the process.\n\nOperant conditioning was developed by B.F. Skinner in 1937 and deals with the modification of \"voluntary behaviour\" or operant behaviour. Operant behavior operates on the environment and is maintained by its consequences. Reinforcement and punishment, the core tools of operant conditioning, are either positive (delivered following a response), or negative (withdrawn following a response). Skinner created the \"Skinner Box\" or operant conditioning chamber to test the effects of operant conditioning principles on rats. From this study, he discovered that the rats learned very effectively if they were rewarded frequently. Skinner also found that he could shape the rats' behavior through the use of rewards, which could, in turn, be applied to human learning as well.\n\nAlthough operant conditioning plays the largest role in discussions of behavioral mechanisms, classical conditioning (or Pavlovian conditioning or respondent conditioning) is also an important behavior-analytic process that need not refer to mental or other internal processes. Pavlov's experiments with dogs provide the most familiar example of the classical conditioning procedure. In simple conditioning, the dog was presented with a stimulus such as a light or a sound, and then food was placed in the dog's mouth. After a few repetitions of this sequence, the light or sound by itself caused the dog to salivate. Although Pavlov proposed some tentative physiological processes that might be involved in classical conditioning, these have not been confirmed. The idea of classical conditioning helped behaviorist John Watson discover the key mechanism behind how humans acquire the behaviors that they do, which was to find a natural reflex that produces the response being considered.\n\nWatson's \"Behaviourist Manifesto\" has three aspects that deserve special recognition: one is that psychology should be purely objective, with any interpretation of conscious experience being removed, thus leading to psychology as the \"science of behaviour\"; the second one is that the goals of psychology should be to predict and control behaviour (as opposed to describe and explain conscious mental states; the third one is that there is no notable distinction between human and non-human behaviour. Following Darwin's theory of evolution, this would simply mean that human behaviour is just a more complex version in respect to behaviour displayed by other species.\n\nBehaviorism is a psychological movement that can be contrasted with philosophy of mind. The basic premise of \"radical behaviorism\" is that the study of behavior should be a natural science, such as chemistry or physics, without any reference to hypothetical inner states of organisms as causes for their behavior. Less radical varieties are unconcerned with philosophical positions on internal, mental and subjective experience. Behaviorism takes a functional view of behavior. According to Edmund Fantino and colleagues: \"Behavior analysis has much to offer the study of phenomena normally dominated by cognitive and social psychologists. We hope that successful application of behavioral theory and methodology will not only shed light on central problems in judgment and choice but will also generate greater appreciation of the behavioral approach.\"\n\nBehaviorist sentiments are not uncommon within philosophy of language and analytic philosophy. It is sometimes argued that Ludwig Wittgenstein defended a logical behaviorist position (e.g., the \"beetle in a box\" argument). In logical positivism (as held, e.g., by Rudolf Carnap and Carl Hempel), the meaning of psychological statements are their verification conditions, which consist of performed overt behavior. W. V. O. Quine made use of a type of behaviorism, influenced by some of Skinner's ideas, in his own work on language. Quine's work in semantics differed substantially from the empiricist semantics of Carnap which he attempted to create an alternative to, couching his semantic theory in references to physical objects rather than sensations. Gilbert Ryle defended a distinct strain of philosophical behaviorism, sketched in his book \"The Concept of Mind\". Ryle's central claim was that instances of dualism frequently represented \"category mistakes\", and hence that they were really misunderstandings of the use of ordinary language. Daniel Dennett likewise acknowledges himself to be a type of behaviorist, though he offers extensive criticism of radical behaviorism and refutes Skinner's rejection of the value of intentional idioms and the possibility of free will.\nSkinner's view of behavior is most often characterized as a \"molecular\" view of behavior; that is, behavior can be decomposed into atomistic parts or molecules. This view is inconsistent with Skinner's complete description of behavior as delineated in other works, including his 1981 article \"Selection by Consequences\". Skinner proposed that a complete account of behavior requires understanding of selection history at three levels: biology (the natural selection or phylogeny of the animal); behavior (the reinforcement history or ontogeny of the behavioral repertoire of the animal); and for some species, culture (the cultural practices of the social group to which the animal belongs). This whole organism then interacts with its environment. Molecular behaviorists use notions from melioration theory, negative power function discounting or additive versions of negative power function discounting.\n\nMolar behaviorists, such as Howard Rachlin, Richard Herrnstein, and William Baum, argue that behavior cannot be understood by focusing on events in the moment. That is, they argue that behavior is best understood as the ultimate product of an organism's history and that molecular behaviorists are committing a fallacy by inventing fictitious proximal causes for behavior. Molar behaviorists argue that standard molecular constructs, such as \"associative strength\", are better replaced by molar variables such as rate of reinforcement. Thus, a molar behaviorist would describe \"loving someone\" as a pattern of loving behavior over time; there is no isolated, proximal cause of loving behavior, only a history of behaviors (of which the current behavior might be an example) that can be summarized as \"love\".\n\nThe early term behavior modification has been obsolete since the 1990s as it currently refers to the brief revival of methodological behaviorism in the 1970s and early 1980s. Applied behavior analysis—the term that replaced behavior modification—has emerged into a thriving field.\n\nThe independent development of behaviour analysis outside the US also continues to develop, In terms of motivation, there remains strong interest in the variety of human motivational behaviour factors, e.g.. Some, may go as far as suggesting that the current rapid change in organisational behaviour could partly be attributed to some of these theories and the theories that are related to it.\n\nThe interests among behavior analysts today are wide-ranging, as a review of the 30 Special Interest Groups (SIGs) within ABAI indicates. Such interests include everything from developmental disabilities and autism, to cultural psychology, clinical psychology, verbal behavior, Organizational Behavior Management (OBM; behavior analytic I–O psychology). OBM has developed a particularly strong following within behavior analysis, as evidenced by the formation of the OBM Network and the influential \"Journal of Organizational Behavior Management\" (JOBM; recently rated the 3rd highest impact journal in applied psychology by ISI JOBM rating).\n\nApplications of behavioral technology, also known as applied behavior analysis or ABA, have been particularly well established in the area of developmental disabilities since the 1960s. Treatment of individuals diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders has grown especially rapidly since the mid-1990s. This demand for services encouraged the formation of a professional credentialing program administered by the Behavior Analyst Certification Board, Inc. (BACB) and accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies. As of early 2012, there are over 300 BACB approved course sequences offered by about 200 colleges and universities worldwide preparing students for this credential and approximately 11,000 BACB certificants, most working in the United States. The Association of Professional Behavior Analysts was formed in 2008 to meet the needs of these ABA professionals.\n\nModern behavior analysis has also witnessed a massive resurgence in research and applications related to language and cognition, with the development of relational frame theory (RFT; described as a \"Post-Skinnerian account of language and cognition\"). RFT also forms the empirical basis for the highly successful and data-driven acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT). In fact, researchers and practitioners in RFT/ACT have become sufficiently prominent that they have formed their own specialized organization that is highly behaviorally oriented, known as the Association for Contextual Behavioral Science (ACBS). \n\nSome of the current prominent behavior analytic journals include the \"Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis\" (JABA), the \"Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior\" (JEAB) JEAB website, the \"Journal of Organizational Behavior Management\" (JOBM), \"Behavior and Social Issues\" (BSI), as well as \"the Psychological Record\". Currently, the US has 14 ABAI accredited MA and PhD programs for comprehensive study in behavior analysis.\n\nCultural analysis has always been at the philosophical core of radical behaviorism from the early days (as seen in Skinner's \"Walden Two\", \"Science & Human Behavior\", \"Beyond Freedom & Dignity\", and \"About Behaviorism\").\n\nDuring the 1980s, behavior analysts, most notably Sigrid Glenn, had a productive interchange with cultural anthropologist Marvin Harris (the most notable proponent of \"cultural materialism\") regarding interdisciplinary work. Very recently, behavior analysts have produced a set of basic exploratory experiments in an effort toward this end. Behaviorism is also frequently used in game development, although this application is controversial.\n\nWith the fast growth of big behavioral data and applications, behavior analysis is ubiquitous. Understanding behavior from the informatics and computing perspective becomes increasingly critical for in-depth understanding of what, why and how behaviors are formed, interact, evolve, change and affect business and decision. Behavior informatics and behavior computing deeply explore behavior intelligence and behavior insights from the informatics and computing perspectives.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, behaviorism was largely eclipsed as a result of the cognitive revolution. This shift was due to methodological behaviorism being highly criticized for not examining mental processes, and this led to the development of the cognitive therapy movement.\nIn the mid-20th century, three main influences arose that would inspire and shape cognitive psychology as a formal school of thought:\n\nIn the early years of cognitive psychology, behaviorist critics held that the empiricism it pursued was incompatible with the concept of internal mental states. Cognitive neuroscience, however, continues to gather evidence of direct correlations between physiological brain activity and putative mental states, endorsing the basis for cognitive psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "558512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558512", "title": "Benjamin Paul Blood", "text": "Benjamin Paul Blood\n\nBenjamin Paul Blood (November 21, 1832 – January 15, 1919) was an American philosopher and poet.\n\nHe was born in Amsterdam, New York. His father, John Blood, was a prosperous landowner. Blood was known as an intelligent man but an unfocused one. He described himself: I was born here in Amsterdam. My father was a land holder of 700 acres [2.8 km²] here, adjoining the city on both sides of the river, and lived, as I now live, in a large brick house on the south bank of the Mohawk visible as you enter Amsterdam from the east. I was his only child, and went a good deal my own way. I ran to machinery, by fancy; patented among other devices a swathing reaper which is very successful. I was of loose and wandering ways. And was a successful gambler through the Tweed regime -- made 'bar'ls' of money, and threw it away. I was a fancy gymnast also, and have had some heavy fights, notable one of forty minutes with Ed. Mullett, whom I left senseless. This was mere fancy. I never lifted an angry hand against man, woman or child -- all fun -- for me. ...I do farming in a way, but am much idle. I have been a sort of pet of the city, and think I should be missed. In a large vote taken by one of the daily papers here a month or so ago as to who were the 12 leading citizens, I was 6th in the 12, and sole in my class. So you see, if Sparta has many a worthier son, I am still boss in the department I prefer.\n\nBlood did indeed patent a swathing reaper, along with other patents, and wrote prolifically, but the larger portion of his writing consisted of letters, either to local newspapers or to friends such as James Hutchison Stirling, Alfred Tennyson and William James (the above quote was from a letter to James). H. M. Kallen wrote of Blood:He was born in 1832 and lived for eighty-six years. During that time he wrote much, but unsystematically. His favorite form of publication was letters to newspapers, mainly local newspapers with a small circulation. These letters dealt with an astonishing diversity of subjects, from local petty politics or the tricks of spiritualist mediums to principles of industry and finance and profundities of metaphysics.\n\nEarly books included \"The Philosophy of Justice Between God and Man\" (1851) and \"Optimism: The Lesson of Ages\" (1860), a Christian mystical vision of the pursuit of happiness from Blood's distinctly American perspective. During his lifetime he was best known for his poetry, which included \"The Bride of the Iconoclast\", \"Justice\",and \"The Colonnades\". According to Christopher Nelson, Blood was a direct influence on William James' \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" as well on James's concept of Sciousness, prime reality consciousness without a sense of self.\n\nAfter experiencing the anesthetic nitrous oxide during a dental operation, Blood concluded that the gas had opened his mind to new ideas and continued experimenting with it. In 1874, he published a 37-page pamphlet, \"The Anesthetic Revelation and the Gist of Philosophy\".\n\nHe married twice; to Mary Sayles, and following her death, to Harriet Lefferts. He had six children from the first marriage, and a daughter from the second.\n\nBlood died in Amsterdam, New York. His final work, \"Pluriverse\", was published posthumously.\n\nBates, E.S. Blood, Benjamin Paul. In: Allen Johnson, ed. \"Dictionary of American Biography\", volume 2. New York: Scribner's, 1957, pp 383–384\n\nBlood, Benjamin, Paul. Optimism: The Lesson of Ages. Guilford: [Eirini Press] http://eirinipress.com, reprinted 2009, \n\nBricklin, Jonathan, Ed., Sciousness, Guilford, CT: [Eirini Press] http://eirinipress.com, \n\nMarks, Robert Walter. \"The Philosophic Faith of Benjamin Paul Blood: A Study of the Thought and Times of an American Mystic.\" Ph.D. dissertation, New School for Social Research, 1953\n\nNelson, Christopher. \"The Artificial Mystic State of Mind: WJ, Benjamin Paul Blood, and the Nitrous-Oxide Variety of Religious Experience.\" \"Streams of William James\". The William James Society. Volume 4, Issue 3 (Fall 2002)\n\nWright, A.J. Benjamin Paul Blood: Anesthesia's Philosopher and Mystic. In: B. Raymond Fink, ed. \"The History of Anesthesia: Third International Symposium.\" Park Ridge, Ill.: Wood Library-Museum of Anesthesiology, 1992, pp 447–456\n\n"}
{"id": "58838738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58838738", "title": "Christopher S. Hill", "text": "Christopher S. Hill\n\nChristopher S. Hill (born 1942) is an American philosopher and William Herbert Perry Faunce Professor of Philosophy at Brown University.\nHe is known for his expertise on consciousness and philosophy of mind.\n\nHill previously taught at the University of Pittsburgh, Case Western Reserve University, the University of Michigan, the University of Arkansas, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\nHe has held various fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities and is a fellow at the National Humanities Center. Hill is a former editor of \"Philosophical Topics\" and a former associate editor of \"Noûs\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14966697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14966697", "title": "Company of Mary", "text": "Company of Mary\n\nThe Missionaries of the Company of Mary is a missionary religious congregation within the Catholic Church. The community was founded by Saint Louis de Montfort in 1705 with the recruitment of his first missionary disciple, Mathurin Rangeard. The congregation is made up of priests and brothers who serve both in the native lands and in other countries. The Montfortian Family comprises three groups: the Company of Mary, the Daughters of Wisdom and the Brothers of Saint Gabriel.\n\nAs early as 1700 Montfort had conceived the idea of founding a society of missionaries. Five months after his ordination, in November 1700, Montfort wrote: \"I am continually asking in my prayers for a poor and small company of good priests to preach missions and retreats under the standard and protection of the Blessed Virgin\".\n\nIn 1713 he went to Paris with a view to recruit members for his community. The director of the seminary Du St-Esprit promised to send him such young priests as would feel called to do missionary work. During the intervals between his missions Montfort wrote the Rule of the Company of Mary though no official membership would develop before his death. After de Montfort died in 1716, two young priests and occasional collaborators, Father Adrien Vatel and Father Rene Mulot continued his mission. From 1718-1781 the \"Mulotins\", although few in number, gave over 430 missions throughout western France, most of which lasted a month.\n\nAfter the French Revolution Montfort's community was reorganised by Father Gabriel Deshayes, elected superior general in 1821. He received from Pope Leo XII a brief of praise for the Company of Mary and for the Daughters of Wisdom, which had also been formed by de Montfort with the help of Blessed Marie Louise Trichet. Father Dalin who was superior general from 1837-1855, obtained canonical approbation of both congregations. Hitherto the missionaries had but one residence, the mother-house at Saint-Laurent-sur-Sèvre (where de Montfort and Trichet are buried) in the Pays de la Loire region. During Dalin's administration as general, several establishments were made in France. Under his successor, Father Denis (1855-1877) the community accepted the direction of a seminary at Pontchâteau in the Diocese of Nantes, from where priests were sent to Haiti, the Company's first attempt at foreign missions.\n\nThe anti-clerical sentiment which arose in the French government in the late 19th century, resulted in the enacting of the Jules Ferry laws which led to many religious congregations which operated schools to leave France. The Montfortian novices took refuge in the Netherlands, where a novitiate and a scholasticate were established. In 1883, a school was also begun at Schimmert. That same year saw the establishment of the first house in Canada. The beatification of de Montfort, in 1888, gave a new stimulus to the company's expansion. A novitiate and a scholasticate were founded near Ottawa (1890); a mission school at Papineauville, Quebec (1900) and missions in Denmark. In 1901 the Company took charge of what was then the Apostolic vicariate of Nyassa Land (Malawi) where the congregation ministers to this day.\nThe 20th century witnessed the expansion of the Company throughout the world, and its members now serve on every continent.\n\nThe mission of the Company of Mary is expressed in the Congregation's Constitutions as follows:\"Our Mission in the Church consists in revealing the mystery of salvation to those who do not yet know it, and in helping those who have already heard the Good News to rediscover and deepen this mystery by a renewed consciousness of the meaning of their baptismal commitment.\"\n\"The Marian character of the Company is an essential possession of our Congregation. Mary is not present in the life of the missionaries in some accidental fashion: devotion toward her is an integral part of their spiritual life and apostolate. The 'total consecration' to Jesus through Mary is the most outstanding mark of the Marian character of our inspiration.\"\n\nAs members of a religious congregation Montfortians embrace the evangelical counsels, taking the three traditional religious vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. Poverty means that all possessions are held in common and that no member may accumulate wealth. Chastity means more than abstaining from sexual activity and its purpose is to make the religious totally available for service; it is also a sign that only God can completely fill the human heart. For a member of a religious congregation, obedience is not slavishly doing what one is told by the superior but being attentive to God’s will by prayerfully listening to the voice of the person in charge. Ultimately, these vows are lived out within a community and bolstered by a relationship with God.\n\nAs part of this discernment process it is normal for interested parties to spend weekends, or even longer, in a Montfortian community. During this time the members of the Congregation share what it is like to be a priest, religious brother or sister. The young people are also strongly encouraged to attend Mass as often as possible and to regularly spend time in prayer in order to better discern their vocation.\n\nThis period which lasts between six months to a year, and postulants live in a community on a full-time basis. This postulancy is devoted to learning more deeply about what it means to follow Christ as a future Montfort. It is normal for the postulant to study French if he has no, or limited, knowledge of the language.\n\nOnce the candidate knows the Montfortian way of life, he is admitted into the novitiate preparing himself to take the vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. The novitiate year is crucial, for it is then that the novices“…better understand their divine vocation, and indeed one which is proper to the institute, experience the manner of living of the institute, and form their mind and heart in its spirit, and so that their intention and suitability are tested.” Thus, the novices are given the opportunity for longer periods of prayer and spiritual reading as well as silence in order to reflect on the vocation God is offering and nature of their response. The spiritual development of the novice is of particular focus, especially through spiritual direction. During the novitiate the history and Constitutions of the Congregation are studied in depth.\n\nA simple profession is made at the end of the novitiate and the person officially becomes a member of the Congregation for “By religious profession, members assume the observance of the three evangelical counsels by public vow, are consecrated to God through the ministry of the Church, and are incorporated into the institute with the rights and duties defined by law.”As part of the ceremony, the new member is clothed in the Montfortian habit which consists of a fold-over black cassock, cord from which hang a 15 decade set of rosary beads.\n\nPost novitiate is where the newly professed religious deepens his commitment as a member of the Montfortians and decides whether or not to make a lifelong commitment to vowed life. For those with a vocation to be a brother suitable training is pursued in his particular field of interest. It is normal for a brother to make his perpetual profession to the Congregation after 3 or 4 years. The Company of Mary asserts thatThe Brothers in particular enrich the Mission with their talents as builders especially, as agriculturists, secretaries, leaders in catechesis and in liturgy: services that they continue to offer with the help of the computer and the internet.\n\nThose called to Holy Orders study for a degree in theology, taking courses in philosophy if they have no experience of that discipline. At the end of this period of formation, which, according to Canon Law, may last between 3 and 6 years perpetual profession (final vows) is made and ordination to the diaconate follows and then to the presbyterate between six months and a year later. In exceptional circumstances, temporary vows may be extended beyond the 6-year period, but for no more than 3 years.\n\nAs with all religious congregations in the Latin branch of the Catholic Church, the Montfortians are led by a superior general who is assisted by his council. The general calls a general chapter according to the constitutions of the Company and it is this convocation (composed of elected members from around the world) which sets goals, establishes provinces and sets policy. There are provinces, vice-provinces and delegations each of which is led by a provincial (or someone similar) elected by those members who have taken final vows.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55039969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55039969", "title": "Contralateral brain", "text": "Contralateral brain\n\nThe contralateral organization of the forebrain (Latin: contra ‚against‘; latus ‚side‘, lateral ‚sided‘) is the property that the hemispheres of the cerebrum and the thalamus represent mainly the contralateral side of the body. Consequently, the left side of the forebrain mostly represents the right side of the body and the right side of the brain represents mostly the left side of the body. The contralateral organization involves both, executive and sensory functions (e.g., a left-sided brain lesion may cause a right-sided hemiplegia). The contralateral organization is present in all vertebrates but in no invertebrate. According to current theories, the forebrain is twisted about the long axis of the body, so that not only the left and right sides, but also dorsal and ventral sides are interchanged (see below).\n\nAnatomically, the contralateral organization is manifested by major decussations (latin: the Latin notation for ten, 'deca', is an uppercase 'X') and chiasmas (after the Greek uppercase letter 'Χ', chi). A decussation denotes a crossing of bundles of axonal fibres inside the central nervous system. As a result of such decussations, the efferent connections of the cerebrum to the basal ganglia, the cerebellum and the spine are crossed, and the afferent connections from the spine, the cerebellum and the pons to the thalamus are crossed. As a result, motor, somatosensory, auditory, and visual primary regions in the forebrain represent predominantly the contralateral side of the body.\n\nTwo of the cranial nerves show chiasmas: the optic tract (nerve II) which originates from the eyes and inserts on the optic tectum of the midbrain, and the trochlear nerve (nerve IV) which originates in the ventral midbrain and innervates one of the six muscles that rotate the eye (superior oblique muscle).\n\nAlthough the forebrain of all vertebrates shows a contralateral organization, this contralaterality is by no means complete. Some of these exceptions are worth to mention:\n\nAccording to current understanding, the contralateral organization is due to an axial twist (see below). A number of alternative proposals have been published earlier, the most popular of which is the visual map theory.\n\nThe visual map theory was published by the famous neuroscientist and pioneer Santiago Ramón y Cajal (1898), see also and for English summaries. According to this theory, the function of the optic chiasm is to repair the retinal field image on the visual cortex. The pupil in the vertebrates’ eyes inverts the image on the retina, so that the visual periphery projects to the medial side of the retina. By the chiasmatic crossing, the visual periphery is again on the outside, if one assumes that the retinal map is faithfully maintained throughout the optic tract.\n\nThe theory has a number of weaknesses. For example, the visual tracts spiral their way from the thalamic LGN to the visual cortex (see Figure; this path is known as the optic radiation). As a result, the retinal map show the visual periphery on the medial side. However, the central point of the theory was exactly to obtain a faithful visual map with the medial field projecting to the medial sides of the visual cortex.\n\nTwo twist theories have been proposed independently, the axial twist theory by de Marc Lussanet and Jan Osse and the somatic twist theory by Marcel Kinsbourne.\n\nThe Axial Twist Theory was designed to explain how the pattern of contralateral organization, decussations and chiasms develops, and why this pattern is evolutionary stable. The evolutionary stability is truly remarkable, given that there are no known exceptions throughout the 500 million years of vertebrate evolution. According to the theory, the contralateral organization develops as follows. The early embryo is turned onto its left side, such that its left is turned to the yolk and its right is turned away from the yolk. This asymmetric orientation is compensated by asymmetric growth to regain superficial bilateral symmetry. The anterior head region turns to the left, as shown in the schema. The forebrain is not a superficial structure, but it is so intimately associated with superficial body structures that it turns along with the anterior head. These structures will later form the eyes, nostrils and mouth.\n\nThe body behind the head compensates the asymmetric body orientation in the opposite direction, by turning to the right (see schema). Due to these oppositely directed compensations of the anterior head and the rest of the body, the animal becomes twisted.\n\nThe Optic tract grows from the retina to the optic tectum, as dorsal and ventral are inverted in the anterior head region, the tracts grow at first to the ventral side to meet in the midline to form a chiasma. Since the opic tectum lies on the dorsal midbrain, each tract then continues dorsally to the contralateral optic tectum.\n\nThe heart and bowels are internal organs with no strong integration in external body structures, so there is no evolutionary pressure to make them turn also. Rather, these organs retain their original asymmetric orientation in the body.\n\nThe idea of a somatic twist was inspired by the dorsoventral inversion hypothesis; the idea was worked out by Marcel Kinsbourne.\n\nAccording to the dorsoventral inversion hypothesis, an ancestral deuterostome turned on its back. As a result, vertebrates have a dorsal nervous system whereas protostomes have a ventral one. According to the somatic twist hypothesis, not the entire animal turned on its back but just the ″somatic″ part, i.e., everything behind the eyes, mouth and nostrils, including the forebrain.\n\nThe three theories are closely related. The Somatic twist hypothesis was proposed as an improvement to the Inversion hypothesis, and thus has a much wider explanatory power than its predecessor. It not only explains the inversion of the body but additionally the contralateral forebrain. The Axial twist theory was defined independently of the other two. In addition to the inverted body and the contralateral forebrain it explains why the heart and bowels are asymmetric. Moreover, it is the only of the three that is supported by evidence from embryological growth.\n\nA remarkable property of the contralateral organization is that it is present in every vertebrate. Even the most distant clades agnathans possess an optic chiasm, and even the skull impressions of early vertebrates from the Ordovician show the presence of an optic chiasm: this idea was worked out by Kinsbourne. \nThere is molecular evidence for the inversion hypothesis in almost all groups of deuterostomes. It is not known, however, what exactly was the selective pressure that caused the inversion. Twisting and asymmetric development are well known from other deuterostomians such as Hemichordata, Echinodermata, Cephalochordata and Tunicata. Turning in the side or upside-down also occurs frequently in these clades.\n\nIn holoprosencephaly the hemispheres of the cerebrum or part of it are not aligned on the left and right side but on the frontal and occipital side of the skull, and usually remains very small. According to the axial twist hypothesis, this represents an extreme case of Yakovlevian torque, and\nmay occur when the cerebrum does not turn during early embryology.\n\nCephalopagus or janiceps twins are conjoined twins which are born with two faces, one on either side of the head. These twins have two brains and two spinal chords, but these are located on the left and the right side of the body. According to the axial twist theory, the two nervous systems could not turn due to the complex configuration of the body and therefore remained on either side.\n\n"}
{"id": "13040278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13040278", "title": "Danrin-ji", "text": "Danrin-ji\n\n"}
{"id": "41895225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41895225", "title": "Diana Tietjens Meyers", "text": "Diana Tietjens Meyers\n\nDiana Meyers is a philosopher working in the philosophy of action and in the philosophy of feminism. Meyers is Professor Emerita of Philosophy at the University of Connecticut.\n\nDiana Meyers holds a Bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago and a Master's degree and PhD from The Graduate Center, CUNY. She mostly works \"in three main areas of philosophy: philosophy of action, feminist ethics, and human rights theory.\n\nIn December 2012, Diana Meyers was awarded the Distinguished Woman Philosopher award at the 2012 APA Eastern Conference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36061419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36061419", "title": "DuraCloud", "text": "DuraCloud\n\nDuraCloud is an open source technology project for preserving and archiving digital content. DuraCloud is developed by and hosted as a SAAS by DuraSpace. The DuraCloud open source software is available under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.\n\nIn 2009, The Library of Congress National Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program (NDIIPP) and DuraSpace announced a joint pilot program to test the use of cloud technologies to enable perpetual access to digital content with DuraCloud. The pilot program entered a second phase in 2010. Several open source releases of the DuraCloud software led to the public launch of the managed service on November 7, 2011. DuraCloud is supported by the DuraSpace organization.\n\nDuraCloud 2.0 was released on April 17, 2012. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48578777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48578777", "title": "Emile Hennequin", "text": "Emile Hennequin\n\nEmile Hennequin (born Palermo, Italy; 1859 – 14 July 1888) was a French author, publisher, writer, and philosopher who wrote theoretical and critical pieces.\n\n"}
{"id": "11397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11397", "title": "Freeman Dyson", "text": "Freeman Dyson\n\nFreeman John Dyson (born 15 December 1923) is an English-born American theoretical physicist and mathematician. He is known for his work in quantum electrodynamics, solid-state physics, astronomy and nuclear engineering. He theorized several concepts that bear his name, such as Dyson's transform, Dyson tree, Dyson series, and Dyson sphere.\n\nHe is professor emeritus in the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, a Visitor of Ralston College, and a member of the Board of Sponsors of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.\n\nBorn on 15 December 1923, at Crowthorne in Berkshire, Dyson is the son of the English composer George Dyson, who was later knighted. His mother had a law degree, and after Dyson was born she worked as a social worker. Although not known to be related to the early 20th-century astronomer Frank Watson Dyson, as a small boy Dyson was aware of him and has credited the popularity of an astronomer sharing his surname with helping to spark his own interest in science. At the age of five he calculated the number of atoms in the sun. As a child, he showed an interest in large numbers and in the solar system, and was strongly influenced by the book \"Men of Mathematics\" by Eric Temple Bell. Politically, Dyson says he was \"brought up as a socialist\".\n\nFrom 1936 to 1941, Dyson was a Scholar at Winchester College, where his father was Director of Music. At age 17 he studied mathematics with G.H. Hardy at Trinity College, Cambridge (where he won a scholarship at age 15) and at age 19 was assigned to war work in the Operational Research Section (ORS) of the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command, where he developed analytical methods to help the Royal Air Force bomb German targets during the Second World War. After the war, Dyson was readmitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he obtained a BA degree in mathematics. From 1946 to 1949, he was a Fellow of his college, occupying rooms just below those of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, who resigned his professorship in 1947. In 1947, Dyson published two papers in number theory. Friends and colleagues describe him as shy and self-effacing, with a contrarian streak that his friends find refreshing but his intellectual opponents find exasperating. \"I have the sense that when consensus is forming like ice hardening on a lake, Dyson will do his best to chip at the ice\", Steven Weinberg said of him. His friend, the neurologist and author Oliver Sacks, said: \"A favourite word of Freeman's about doing science and being creative is the word 'subversive'. He feels it's rather important not only to be not orthodox, but to be subversive, and he's done that all his life.\" \n\nOn G. I. Taylor's advise and recommendation, Dyson moved to the United States in 1947 as a Commonwealth Fellow to earn a physics doctorate with Hans Bethe at Cornell University (1947–48). Within a week, however, he had made the acquaintance of Richard Feynman. The budding English physicist recognized the brilliance of the flamboyant American, and attached himself as quickly as possible. He then moved to the Institute for Advanced Study (1948–49), before returning to England (1949–51), where he was a research fellow at the University of Birmingham. Dyson never got his PhD degree.\n\nIn 1949, Dyson demonstrated the equivalence of two then-current formulations of quantum electrodynamics (QED): Richard Feynman's diagrams and the operator method developed by Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichirō Tomonaga. He was the first person after their creator to appreciate the power of Feynman diagrams, and his paper written in 1948 and published in 1949 was the first to make use of them. He said in that paper that Feynman diagrams were not just a computational tool, but a physical theory, and developed rules for the diagrams that completely solved the renormalization problem. Dyson's paper and also his lectures presented Feynman's theories of QED in a form that other physicists could understand, facilitating the physics community's acceptance of Feynman's work. J. Robert Oppenheimer, in particular, was persuaded by Dyson that Feynman's new theory was as valid as Schwinger's and Tomonaga's. Oppenheimer rewarded Dyson with a lifetime appointment at the Institute for Advanced Study, \"for proving me wrong\", in Oppenheimer's words.\n\nAlso in 1949, in related work, Dyson invented the Dyson series. It was this paper that inspired John Ward to derive his celebrated Ward identity.\n\nIn 1951, Dyson joined the faculty at Cornell as a physics professor, although still lacking a doctorate, and in 1953, he received a permanent post at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, where he has now lived for more than sixty years. In 1957, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States and renounced his British nationality. One reason he gave decades later is that his children born in the United States had not been recognized as British subjects.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1961, he worked on Project Orion, which proposed the possibility of space-flight using nuclear pulse propulsion. A prototype was demonstrated using conventional explosives, but the 1963 Partial Test Ban Treaty, in which Dyson was involved and supported, permitted only underground nuclear weapons testing, so the project was abandoned.\n\nIn 1958, he led the design team for the TRIGA, a small, inherently safe nuclear reactor used throughout the world in hospitals and universities for the production of medical isotopes.\n\nA seminal paper by Dyson came in 1966, when, together with Andrew Lenard and independently of Elliott H. Lieb and Walter Thirring, he proved rigorously that the exclusion principle plays the main role in the stability of bulk matter. Hence, it is not the electromagnetic repulsion between outer-shell orbital electrons which prevents two wood blocks that are left on top of each other from coalescing into a single piece, but rather it is the exclusion principle applied to electrons and protons that generates the classical macroscopic normal force. In condensed matter physics, Dyson also analysed the phase transition of the Ising model in 1 dimension and spin waves.\n\nDyson also did work in a variety of topics in mathematics, such as topology, analysis, number theory and random matrices. There is an interesting story involving random matrices. In 1973, the number theorist Hugh Montgomery was visiting the Institute for Advanced Study and had just made his pair correlation conjecture concerning the distribution of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function. He showed his formula to the mathematician Atle Selberg who said it looked like something in mathematical physics and he should show it to Dyson, which he did. Dyson recognized the formula as the pair correlation function of the Gaussian unitary ensemble, which has been extensively studied by physicists. This suggested that there might be an unexpected connection between the distribution of primes 2,3,5,7,11,  ... and the energy levels in the nuclei of heavy elements such as uranium.\n\nAround 1979, Dyson worked with the Institute for Energy Analysis on climate studies. This group, under the direction of Alvin Weinberg, pioneered multidisciplinary climate studies, including a strong biology group. Also during the 1970s, he worked on climate studies conducted by the JASON defense advisory group.\n\nDyson retired from the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994. In 1998, Dyson joined the board of the Solar Electric Light Fund. he was president of the Space Studies Institute, the space research organization founded by Gerard K. O'Neill; he is on its Board of Trustees. Dyson is a long-time member of the JASON group.\n\nDyson has won numerous scientific awards but never a Nobel Prize. Nobel physics laureate Steven Weinberg has said that the Nobel committee has \"fleeced\" Dyson, but Dyson himself remarked in 2009, \"I think it's almost true without exception if you want to win a Nobel Prize, you should have a long attention span, get hold of some deep and important problem and stay with it for ten years. That wasn't my style.\" Dyson is a regular contributor to \"The New York Review of Books\".\n\nIn 2012, he published (with William H. Press) a fundamental new result about the Prisoner's Dilemma in PNAS.\n\nWith his first wife, the Swiss mathematician Verena Huber-Dyson, Dyson had two children, Esther and George. In 1958, he married Imme Jung, a masters runner, and they had four more children, Dorothy, Mia, Rebecca, and Emily Dyson.\n\nDyson's eldest daughter, Esther, is a digital technology consultant and investor; she has been called \"the most influential woman in all the computer world.\" His son George is a historian of science, one of whose books is \"Project Orion: The Atomic Spaceship 1957–1965\".\n\nDyson cheerfully admits his record as a prophet is mixed, but \"it is better to be wrong than to be vague.\"\n\n\"To answer the world's material needs, technology has to be not only beautiful but also cheap.\"\n\nDyson favors the dual origin concept: Life first formed cells, then enzymes, and finally, much later, genes. This was first propounded by the Russian Alexander Oparin. J. B. S. Haldane developed the same theory independently. Dyson has simplified things by saying simply that life evolved in two stages, widely separated in time. He regards it as too unlikely that genes could have developed fully blown in one process, because of the biochemistry. Current cells contain adenosine triphosphate or ATP and adenosine 5'-monophosphate or AMP, which greatly resemble each other but have completely different functions. ATP transports energy around the cell, and AMP is part of RNA and the genetic apparatus. Dyson proposes that in a primitive early cell containing ATP and AMP, RNA and replication were invented accidentally because of the similarity between AMP and RNA. He suggests that AMP was produced when ATP molecules lost two of their phosphate radicals, and then one cell somewhere performed Eigen's experiment and produced RNA.\n\nUnfortunately there is no direct evidence for the dual origin concept, because once genes developed, they took over, obliterating all traces of the earlier forms of life. In the first origin, the cells were probably just drops of water held together by surface tension, teeming with enzymes and chemical reactions, and a primitive kind of growth or replication. When the liquid drop became too big, it split into two drops. Many complex molecules formed in these \"little city economies\" and the probability that genes would eventually develop in them was much greater than in the prebiotic environment.\n\nIn 1960, Dyson wrote a short paper for the journal \"Science\", titled \"Search for Artificial Stellar Sources of Infrared Radiation\". In it, he theorized that a technologically advanced extraterrestrial civilization might completely surround its native star with artificial structures in order to maximize the capture of the star's available energy. Eventually, the civilization would completely enclose the star, intercepting electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths from visible light downwards and radiating waste heat outwards as infrared radiation. Therefore, one method of searching for extraterrestrial civilizations would be to look for large objects radiating in the infrared range of the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nDyson conceived that such structures would be clouds of asteroid-sized space habitats, though science fiction writers have preferred a solid structure: either way, such an artifact is often called a Dyson sphere, although Dyson used the term \"shell\". Dyson says that he used the term \"artificial biosphere\" in the article meaning a habitat, not a shape. The general concept of such an energy-transferring shell had been advanced decades earlier by author Olaf Stapledon in his 1937 novel \"Star Maker\", a source that Dyson has credited publicly.\n\nDyson has also proposed the creation of a \"Dyson tree\", a genetically-engineered plant capable of growing on a comet. He suggested that comets could be engineered to contain hollow spaces filled with a breathable atmosphere, thus providing self-sustaining habitats for humanity in the outer Solar System.\n\nDyson has been interested in space travel since he was a child, reading such science fiction classics as Olaf Stapledon's \"Star Maker\". As a young man, he worked for General Atomics on the nuclear-powered Orion spacecraft. He hoped Project Orion would put men on Mars by 1965, Saturn by 1970. He's been unhappy for a quarter-century about how the government conducts space travel:\nHe still hopes for cheap space travel, but is resigned to waiting for private entrepreneurs to develop something new and inexpensive.\n\nDyson also proposed the use of bioengineered space colonies to colonize the Kuiper Belt on the outer edge of our Solar System. He proposed that habitats could be grown from space hardened spores. The colonies could then be warmed by large reflector plant leaves that could focus the dim, distant sunlight back on the growing colony. This was illustrated by Pat Rawlings on the cover of the National Space Society's Ad Astra magazine.\n\nDyson's proposal that intelligent beings may be capable of thinking an infinite number of thoughts in an open/ expanding universe.\n\nDyson also has some credits in pure mathematics. His concept \"Dyson's transform\" led to one of the most important lemmas of Olivier Ramaré's theorem that every even integer can be written as a sum of no more than six primes.\n\nThe Dyson series, the formal solution of an explicitly time-dependent Schrödinger equation by iteration, and the corresponding Dyson time-ordering operator formula_1 an entity of basic importance in the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics, are also named after Dyson.\n\nDyson and Hugh Montgomery discovered together an intriguing connection between quantum physics and Montgomery's pair correlation conjecture about the zeros of the Zeta function. The primes 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, ... are described by the Riemann Zeta function, and Dyson had previously developed a description of quantum physics based on m by m arrays of totally random numbers. What Montgomery and Dyson discovered is that the \"eigenvalues\" of these matrices are spaced apart in exactly the same manner as Montgomery conjectured for the nontrivial zeros of the Zeta function. Andrew Odlyzko has verified the conjecture on a computer, using his Odlyzko–Schönhage algorithm to calculate many zeros. Dyson recognized this connection because of a number-theory question Montgomery asked him. Dyson had published results in number theory in 1947, while a Fellow at Trinity College, Cambridge and so was able to understand Montgomery's question. If Montgomery had not been visiting the Institute for Advanced Study that week, this connection might not have been discovered.\n\nThere are in nature one, two, and three dimensional quasicrystals. Mathematicians define a quasicrystal as a set of discrete points whose Fourier transform is also a set of discrete points. Andrew Odlyzko has done extensive computations of the Fourier transform of the nontrivial zeros of the Riemann Zeta function, and they seem to form a one dimensional quasicrystal. This would in fact follow from the Riemann hypothesis.\n\nDyson has suggested a kind of cosmic metaphysics of mind. In his book \"Infinite in All Directions\" he writes about three levels of mind: \"The universe shows evidence of the operations of mind on three levels. The first level is the level of elementary physical processes in quantum mechanics. Matter in quantum mechanics is ... constantly making choices between alternative possibilities according to probabilistic laws. ... The second level at which we detect the operations of mind is the level of direct human experience. ... [I]t is reasonable to believe in the existence of a third level of mind, a mental component of the universe. If we believe in this mental component and call it God, then we can say that we are small pieces of God's mental apparatus\" (p. 297).\n\nDyson agrees that anthropogenic global warming exists. While he agrees that \"[one] of the main causes of warming is the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere resulting from our burning of fossil fuels such as oil and coal and natural gas\", he believes that existing simulation models of climate fail to account for some important factors, and hence the results will contain too much error to reliably predict future trends:\n\nand, in 2009:\n\nHe is among signatories of a letter to the UN criticizing the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and has also argued against ostracizing scientists whose views depart from the acknowledged mainstream of scientific opinion on climate change, stating that \"heretics\" have historically been an important force in driving scientific progress. \"[H]eretics who question the dogmas are needed  ... I am proud to be a heretic. The world always needs heretics to challenge the prevailing orthodoxies.\"\n\nDyson says his views on global warming have been strongly criticized. In reply, he notes that \"[m]y objections to the global warming propaganda are not so much over the technical facts, about which I do not know much, but it's rather against the way those people behave and the kind of intolerance to criticism that a lot of them have.\"\n\nIn 2008, he endorsed the now common usage of \"global warming\" as synonymous with global anthropogenic climate change, referring to \"measurements that transformed global warming from a vague theoretical speculation into a precise observational science.\"\n\nHe has, however, argued that political efforts to reduce the causes of climate change distract from other global problems that should take priority:\n\nIn an opinion piece in the Boston Globe of 3 Dec 2015 he wrote,\n\nSince originally taking interest in climate studies in the 1970s, Dyson has suggested that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere could be controlled by planting fast-growing trees. He calculates that it would take a trillion trees to remove all carbon from the atmosphere.\n\nIn a 2014 interview, he said that \"What I'm convinced of is that we don't understand climate ... It will take a lot of very hard work before that question is settled.\"\n\nHe is a member of the academic advisory council of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, a climate sceptic think tank chaired by Nigel Lawson.\n\nFrom his 1988 book \"Infinite in All Directions\", he offered some criticism of then current models predicting a devastating nuclear winter in the event of a large-scale nuclear war:\n\nAt the British Bomber Command, Dyson and colleagues proposed removing two gun turrets from the RAF Lancaster bombers, to cut the catastrophic losses due to German fighters in the Battle of Berlin. A Lancaster without turrets could fly faster and be much more maneuverable.\n\nOn hearing the news of the bombing of Hiroshima:\n\nIn 1967, in his capacity as a military adviser Dyson wrote an influential paper on the issue of possible US use of tactical nuclear weapons in the Vietnam War. When a general said in a meeting, \"I think it might be a good idea to throw in a nuke now and then, just to keep the other side guessing ...\" Dyson became alarmed and obtained permission to write an objective report discussing the pros and cons of using such weapons from a purely military point of view. (This report, \"Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Southeast Asia\", published by the Institute for Defense Analyses, was obtained, with some redactions, by the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainability under the Freedom of Information act in 2002.) It was sufficiently objective that both sides in the debate based their arguments on it. Dyson says that the report showed that, even from a narrow military point of view, the US was better off not using nuclear weapons. Dyson stated on the Dick Cavett show that the use of nuclear weaponry was a bad idea for the US at the time because \"our targets were large and theirs were small.\" (His unstated assumption was that the Soviets would respond by supplying tactical nukes to the other side.)\n\nDyson opposed the Vietnam War, the Gulf War and the invasion of Iraq. He supported Barack Obama in the 2008 US presidential election and \"The New York Times\" has described him as a political liberal. He was one of 29 leading US scientists who wrote a strongly supportive letter to Obama regarding his administration's 2015 nuclear deal with Iran.\n\nWhile teaching for a few weeks in Zurich, Dyson was visited by two officials from the Swiss civil defence authority. Their experts were telling them that fairly simple shelters on a large scale would enable them to survive a nuclear attack, and they wanted confirmation. They knew that Dyson had a security clearance. Dyson reassured them that their shelters would do the job. The US does not build such shelters because it would be contrary to the doctrine of mutual assured destruction, since the US would be able to launch a first strike but survive retaliation.\n\nHe is a nondenominational Christian and has attended various churches from Presbyterian to Roman Catholic. Regarding doctrinal or Christological issues, he has said, \"I am neither a saint nor a theologian. To me, good works are more important than theology.\"\n\nDyson partially disagrees with the famous remark by his fellow physicist Steven Weinberg that \"With or without religion, good people can behave well and bad people can do evil; but for good people to do evil—that takes religion.\"\n\nWhile Dyson has labeled himself a Christian, he identifies himself as agnostic about some of the specifics of his faith. For example, here is a passage from Dyson's review of \"The God of Hope and the End of the World\" from John Polkinghorne:\n\nIn \"The God Delusion\" (2006), biologist Richard Dawkins criticized Dyson for accepting the religious Templeton Prize in 2000; \"It would be taken as an endorsement of religion by one of the world's most distinguished physicists.\" However, Dyson declared in 2000 that he is a (non-denominational) Christian, and he has disagreed with Dawkins on several occasions, as when he criticized Dawkins' understanding of evolution.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4439884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4439884", "title": "Georg Kühlewind", "text": "Georg Kühlewind\n\nGeorg Kühlewind, birth name \"György Székely\" (March 6, 1924 – January 15, 2006) was a Hungarian philosopher, writer, lecturer and meditation teacher, who worked from the tradition of Rudolf Steiner’s spiritual science. Setting aside his early interest in music and psychology, he pursued a successful professional career as a physical chemist. Meanwhile, he continued to deepen his spiritual practice and insights. A prolific author (most of whose works are still untranslated from German), Kühlewind spent much time traveling the world, lecturing and leading workshops and seminars in meditation, psychology, epistemology, child development, anthroposophy, and esoteric Christianity. He was the author of numerous books.\n\nWorks in English translation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1097646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097646", "title": "Georgia Guidestones", "text": "Georgia Guidestones\n\nThe Georgia Guidestones are a granite monument erected in 1980 in Elbert County, Georgia, in the United States. A set of 10 guidelines is inscribed on the structure in eight modern languages and a shorter message is inscribed at the top of the structure in four ancient language scripts.\n\nThe monument stands at an approximate elevation of above sea level, about east of Atlanta, from Athens, Georgia and north of the center of the city of Elberton. \n\nOne slab stands in the center, with four arranged around it. A capstone lies on top of the five slabs, which are astronomically aligned. An additional stone tablet, which is set in the ground a short distance to the west of the structure, provides some notes on the history and purpose of the guidestones. The structure is sometimes referred to as an \"American Stonehenge\". The monument is tall, made from six granite slabs weighing in all. The anonymity of the guidestones' authors and their apparent advocacy of population control, eugenics and internationalism, have made them a target for controversy and conspiracy theory. \n\nIn June 1979, a man using the pseudonym Robert C. Christian approached the Elberton Granite Finishing Company on behalf of \"a small group of loyal Americans\", and commissioned the structure. Christian explained that the stones would function as a compass, calendar and clock, and should be capable of withstanding catastrophic events. Joe Fendley of Elberton Granite assumed that Christian was \"a nut\" and attempted to discourage him by giving a quote several times higher than any project the company had taken, explaining that the guidestones would require additional tools and consultants. Christian accepted the quote. When arranging payment, Christian explained that he represented a group which had been planning the guidestones for 20 years, and which intended to remain anonymous.\n\nChristian delivered a scale model of the guidestones and ten pages of specifications. The five-acre (2 ha) land was apparently purchased by Christian on October 1, 1979, from farm owner Wayne Mullinex. Mullinex and his children were given lifetime cattle grazing rights on the guidestones site. The monument was unveiled on March 22, 1980, before an audience variously described as 100 or 400 people. Christian later transferred ownership of the land and the guidestones to Elbert County.\n\nIn 2008, the stones were defaced with polyurethane paint and graffiti with slogans such as \"Death to the new world order\". \"Wired\" magazine called the defacement \"the first serious act of vandalism in the guidestones' history\". In September 2014, an employee of the Elbert County maintenance department contacted the Federal Bureau of Investigation when the stones were vandalized with graffiti including the phrase \"I Am Isis, goddess of love\". \n\nA message consisting of a set of ten guidelines or principles is engraved on the Georgia Guidestones in eight different languages, one language on each face of the four large upright stones. Moving clockwise around the structure from due north, these languages are: English, Spanish, Swahili, Hindi, Hebrew, Arabic, Traditional Chinese, and Russian.\n\n\nA few feet to the west of the monument, an additional granite ledger has been set level with the ground. This tablet identifies the structure and the languages used on it, lists various facts about the size, weight, and astronomical features of the stones, the date it was installed, and the sponsors of the project. It also speaks of a time capsule buried under the tablet, but spaces on the stone reserved for filling in the dates on which the capsule was buried and is to be opened have not been inscribed, so it is uncertain if the time capsule was put in place.\n\nThe complete text of the explanatory tablet is detailed below. The tablet is somewhat inconsistent with respect to punctuation, misspells the word \"pseudonym\", and incorrectly uses the adjective \"hieroglyphic\" as a plural noun. The original spelling, punctuation, and line breaks in the text have been preserved in the transcription which follows (letter case is not). At the top center of the tablet is written:\n\nImmediately below this is the outline of a square, inside which is written:\n\nAround the edges of the square are written translations to four ancient languages, one per edge. Starting from the top and proceeding clockwise, they are: Babylonian (in cuneiform script), Classical Greek, Sanskrit and Ancient Egyptian (in hieroglyphs).\n\nOn the left side of the tablet is the following column of text:\n\nThe words appear as shown under the time capsule heading; no dates are engraved.\n\nOn the right side of the tablet is the following column of text (metric conversions added):\nBelow the two columns of text is written the caption \"GUIDESTONE LANGUAGES\", with a diagram of the granite slab layout beneath it. The names of eight modern languages are inscribed along the long edges of the projecting rectangles, one per edge. Starting from due north and moving clockwise around so that the upper edge of the northeast rectangle is listed first, they are English, Spanish, Swahili, Hindi, Hebrew, Arabic, Chinese, and Russian. At the bottom center of the tablet is the following text:\n\nThe four outer stones are oriented to mark the limits of the 18.6 year lunar declination cycle. The center column features a hole drilled at an angle from one side to the other, through which can be seen the North Star, a star whose position changes only very gradually over time. The same pillar has a slot carved through it which is aligned with the Sun's solstices and equinoxes. A in (22 mm) aperture in the capstone allows a ray of sun to pass through at noon each day, shining a beam on the center stone indicating the day of the year.\n\nYoko Ono praised the inscribed messages as \"a stirring call to rational thinking\", while \"Wired\" stated that unspecified opponents have labeled them as the \"Ten Commandments of the Antichrist\".\n\nThe guidestones have become a subject of interest for conspiracy theorists. One of them, an activist named Mark Dice, demanded that the guidestones \"be smashed into a million pieces, and then the rubble used for a construction project\", claiming that the guidestones are of \"a deep Satanic origin\", and that R. C. Christian belongs to \"a Luciferian secret society\" related to the \"New World Order\". At the unveiling of the monument, a local minister proclaimed that he believed the monument was \"for sun worshipers, for cult worship and for devil worship\". Others have suggested that the stones were commissioned by the Rosicrucians, with conspiracy theorist Jay Weidner observing that the pseudonym of the man who commissioned the stones – \"R. C. Christian\" – resembles Rose Cross Christian, or Christian Rosenkreuz, the founder of the Rosicrucian Order. Alex Jones's film \"Endgame: Blueprint for Global Enslavement\" proposes that the guidestones are a harbinger of self-appointed elites who intend on exterminating most of the world's population.\n\nThe most widely agreed-upon interpretation of the stones is that they describe the basic concepts required to rebuild a devastated civilization. Author Brad Meltzer notes that the stones were built in 1979 at the height of the Cold War, and thus argues that they may have been intended as a message to the possible survivors of a nuclear World War III. The engraved suggestion to keep humanity's population below 500 million could have been made under the assumption that war had already reduced humanity below this number.\n\nThe guidestones were briefly shown and discussed in the 1986 documentary film \"Sherman's March\", and were featured extensively in a 2012 episode of \"Mysteries at the Museum\", a \"Monumental Mysteries Special\" featuring Don Wildman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602114", "title": "History of theology", "text": "History of theology\n\nThis is an overview of the history of theology in Greek thought and its relationship with Abrahamic religions.\n\nVarious forms of systematic and philosophical reflection on Ancient Greek religion and Greek mythology arose in the classical period—from Hesiod's attempts to organize the diverse materials of mythology into a unified \"Theogony\" to the more properly philosophical analysis reportedly carried out by Socrates.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nPhilosophical reflection on the gods, on religion, and on the origins and governance of the Universe, flourished in the Hellenistic period among both Greek- and Latin-speaking thinkers. Among the very diverse movements of Hellenistic philosophy in which theological reflection could be found were Skepticism, Cynicism, Stoicism, Epicureanism, Middle Platonism, and Neoplatonism. The Skeptics were to have a larger impact on Western reasoning than the Cynics; but this would not occur until after its having been reified during the middle years of the Roman Empire when it passed into the mainstream of Western thought.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nHellenistic theology, which could be deemed to last until the suppression of the Athenian Academy in 529 by Justinian I, overlaps with early Jewish and early Christian theology (see below), and several strands of thought important particularly to early Christian thought arise within Hellenistic circles: attempts to explain the apparent caprice of the gods, Atheism, the development of monotheism, the idea of God as first cause or form of the Good, the dualism of spirit and matter in humanity, and redemption (the release of the spirit from its material prison to a higher spiritual world) through knowledge.\n\nTwo strands of Jewish theology develop in the 1st and 2nd centuries. On the one hand, there are those oral traditions of Rabbinic exegesis (Midrash) and legal discussion (Mishnah and Tosefta) that eventually began to be written down towards the end of the 2nd century AD.\n\nImportant figures (known as Tannaim) include\n\nOn the other hand, there is the attempt to accommodate traditional Jewish exegesis of the Jewish Scriptures and tradition with Greek philosophy—a strand of thought of which Philo (c. 20 BC to 40 AD) is the best known proponent. The destruction of the Jerusalem temple in 70 AD and the dispersion of many Jews from Israel had a profound effect on Jewish Theology.\n\nIn the centuries after its compilation, discussion and commentary upon the Mishnah flourished in Jewish academies in Israel and in Babylon. Collections of opinions from these discussions, known as Gemara were eventually edited together and placed with the Mishnah itself, in both Israel (around 350 AD – the Jerusalem Talmud) and Babylon (around 550 AD, with further editing in the two centuries that followed – the Babylonian Talmud).\n\nImportant figures (known as Amoraim) include\n\nThe New Testament contains evidence of some of the earliest forms of reflection upon the meanings and implications of Christian faith, mostly in the form of guidance offered to Christian congregations on how to live a life consistent with their convictions – notably in the Pauline corpus and Johannine corpus.\n\nA huge quantity of theological reflection emerged in the early centuries of the Christian church – in a wide variety of genres, in a variety of contexts, and in several languages – much of it the product of attempts to discuss how Christian faith should be lived in cultures very different from the one in which it was born. So, for instance, a good deal of the Greek language literature can be read as an attempt to come to terms with Hellenistic culture. The period sees the slow emergence of orthodoxy (the idea of which seems to emerge from the conflicts between catholic Christianity and Gnostic Christianity), the establishment of a Biblical canon, debates about the doctrine of the Trinity (most notably between the councils of Nicaea in 325 and Constantinople in 381), about Christology (most notably between the councils of Constantinople in 381 and Chalcedon in 451), about the purity of the Church (for instance in the debates surrounding the Donatists), and about grace, free will and predestination (for instance in the debate between Augustine of Hippo and Pelagius).\n\nInfluential texts and writers in the 2nd century include:\n\nInfluential texts and writers between c. 200 and 325 (the First Council of Nicaea) include:\nTexts from patristic authors before 325 AD are collected in the Ante-Nicene Fathers.\n\nInfluential texts and writers between 325 AD and c. 500 AD include:\nTexts from patristic authors after 325 AD are collected in the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers. Important theological debates also surrounded the various Ecumenical Councils – Nicaea in 325, Constantinople in 381, Ephesus in 431 and Chalcedon in 451\nSee also main articles on Patristics and Church Fathers.\n\nWhile the Western Roman Empire declined and fell, the Eastern Roman Empire, centred on Constantinople, remained standing until 1453, and was the home of a wide range of theological activity that was seen as standing in strong continuity with the theology of the Patristic period; indeed the division between Patristic and Byzantine theology would not be recognised by many Orthodox theologians and historians.\n\n\n\n\nWhen the Western Roman Empire fragmented under the impact of various 'barbarian' invasions, the Empire-wide intellectual culture that had underpinned late Patristic theology had its interconnections cut. Theology tended to become more localised, more diverse, more fragmented. The classically clothed Christianity preserved in Italy by men like Boethius and Cassiodorus was different from the vigorous Frankish Christianity documented by Gregory of Tours which was different again from the Christianity that flourished in Ireland and Northumbria in the 7th and 8th centuries. Throughout this period, theology tended to be a more monastic affair, flourishing in monastic havens where the conditions and resources for theological learning could be maintained.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nBoth because it made communication between different Christian centres easier, and because there was a concerted effort by its rulers to encourage educational and religious reforms and to develop greater uniformity in Christian thought and practice across their territories, the establishment of the Carolingian Empire saw an explosion of theological inquiry, and theological controversy. Controversy flared, for instance, around 'Spanish Adoptionism, around the views on predestination of Gottschalk, or around the eucharistic views of Ratramnus.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nWith the division and decline of the Carolingian Empire, notable theological activity was preserved in some of the Cathedral schools that had begun to rise to prominence under it – for instance at Auxerre in the 9th century or Chartres in the 11th. Intellectual influences from the Arabic world (including works of classical authors preserved by Islamic scholars) percolated into the Christian West via Spain, influencing such theologians as Gerbert of Aurillac, who went on to become Pope Sylvester II and mentor to Otto III. (Otto was the fourth ruler of the Germanic Ottonian Holy Roman Empire, successor to the Carolingian Empire). With hindsight, one might say that a new note was struck when a controversy about the meaning of the eucharist blew up around Berengar of Tours in the 11th century: hints of a new confidence in the intellectual investigation of the faith that perhaps foreshadowed the explosion of theological argument that was to take place in the 12th century.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nAnselm of Canterbury is sometimes misleadingly called the 'Father of Scholasticism' because of the prominent place that reason has in his theology; instead of establishing his points by appeal to authority, he presents arguments to demonstrate why it is that the things he believes on authority must be so. His particular approach, however, was not very influential in his time, and he kept his distance from the Cathedral Schools. We should look instead to the production of the gloss on Scripture associated with Anselm of Laon, the rise to prominence of dialectic (middle subject of the medieval trivium) in the work of Abelard, and the production by Peter Lombard of a collection of Sentences or opinions of the Church Fathers and other authorities. Scholasticism proper can be thought of as the kind of theology that emerges when, in the Cathedral schools and their successors, the tools of dialectic are pressed into use to comment upon, explain, and develop the gloss and the sentences.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nThe 13th century saw the attempted suppression of various groups perceived as heterodox, such as the Cathars and Waldensians and the associated rise of the mendicant orders (notably the Franciscans and Dominicans), in part intended as a form of orthodox alternative to the heretical groups. Those two orders quickly became contexts for some of the most intense scholastic theology, producing such 'high scholastic' theologians as Alexander of Hales (Franciscan) and Thomas Aquinas (Dominican), or the rather less obviously scholastic Bonaventure (Franciscan). The century also saw a flourishing of mystical theology, with women such as Mechthild of Magdeburg playing a prominent role. In addition, the century can be seen as period in which the study of natural philosophy that could anachronistically be called 'science' began once again to flourish in theological soil, in the hands of such men as Robert Grosseteste and Roger Bacon.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nScholastic theology continued to develop as the 13th century gave way to the fourteenth, becoming ever more complex and subtle in its distinctions and arguments. The 14th century saw in particular the rise to dominance of the nominalist or voluntarist theologies of men like William of Ockham. The 14th century was also a time in which movements of widely varying character worked for the reform of the institutional church, such as conciliarism, Lollardy and the Hussites. Spiritual movements such as the Devotio Moderna also flourished.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nIslamic theology or \"Kalam\", in the sense of ordered, rational reflection upon Allah and his Qur'an, is commonly held to begin at the end of the 7th century – the 1st century A.H. – with debates about divine and human freedom.\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" were those who defended a fairly strong view of human freedom, and included\n\n'The \"Jabriyyah\" were their opponents, and included\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" evolved into \"Mu‘tazilah\" which for some time was the dominant form of \"kalam\", imposed as official orthodoxy under the Abbasid dynasty, until the accession of Al-Mutawakkil in 847, after which it was suppressed. For the five principal doctrines of Mutazilism, see the main article. Prominent Mutazilite theologians include:\n\nFrom the late 10th century onwards, \"Mutazilite kalam\", opposition to which had hitherto been almost indistinguishable from opposition to \"kalam\" itself, found a new opponent \"within\" \"kalam\": \"Ash'ari kalam\". \"Asharite kalam\" rose to become the dominant form of Islamic \"kalam\", and helped distinguish \"kalam\" from \"falasafa\"—from philosophy (a distinction which is less clear when considering \"Mutazilite\" thought).\n\nProminent Asharites include:\n\n\nNote should also be taken of the variant of Asharism known as \"Maturidism\". Prominent Maturidi authors include:\n\nWhilst the boundaries are sometimes rather porous, scholars of Islamic thought often make a distinction between \"Falasafa\" (Islamic philosophy) and \"Kalam\" (Islamic theology). Prominent writers normally held to stand on the Falasafa side of the divide include:\n\nRenaissance Platonists, most notably from Florentine circles (from Boccaccio and Petrarch, to Landino and Politian), appealed to \"poetic theology\" (theologia poetica) as a mythical theology independent of Biblical revelation and thus, too, of Christian medieval theology. The paradigmatic \"poet theologian\" was Orpheus, a mythical legislator capable of subduing or civilizing beast-like men with his songs. Renaissance philosophers would adopt mythical \"personae\" such as that of Orpheus to carry out their civilizing function, as philosophical mediators between \"sacred\" authority and the \"profane\" lives subject to it. Thus, e.g., Politian would emerge as a \"new Orpheus\", a philosopher in poetic garb.\n\nThe Renaissance judicious appeal to theologia poetica would find its historical consummation in the works of Giambattista Vico, whose discussions on \"poet theologians\" (Scienza Nuova) echoed Renaissance counterparts both literally and allegorically.\n\nThe Renaissance yielded scholars the ability to read the scriptures in their original languages and this in part stimulated the Reformation, a theological movement that protested the outlawing of their faith at the Second Diet of Speyer. Its main themes were Justification by faith, the Bible as the only source of Christian teaching, and the Priesthood of all believers, and. Important figures include Luther, Melanchthon, Bucer, Zwingli, Calvin, and the Anabaptists. Calvinist theology was developed by successors such as Beza, the English Puritans and Turretin. Lutheran theology entered a period of doctrinal unity with the adoption of the Book of Concord and preserved it through the work of theologians such as Chemnitz and Gerhard.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Counter-Reformation spearheaded by the Jesuits under Ignatius Loyola took their theology from the decisions of the Council of Trent and developed Second Scholasticism, which they pitted against Lutheran and Reformed scholasticism. The overall result of the Reformation was to highlight distinctions of belief that had previously co-existed uneasily.\n\nThe Fall of Constantinople in the East, 1453, led to a significant shift of gravity to the rising state of Russia, the \"Third Rome\". The Renaissance stimulated a program of reforms by patriarchs of prayer books. A movement called the \"Old Believers\" consequently resulted and influenced Russian Orthodox Theology in the direction of conservatism and Erastianism.\n\nAfter the Reformation protestant groups continued to splinter, leading to a range of new theologies. The \"Enthusiasts\" were so named because of their emotional zeal. These included the Methodists, the Quakers and Baptists. Another group sought to reconcile Christian faith with \"Modern\" ideas, sometimes causing them to reject beliefs they considered to be illogical, including the Nicene creed and Chalcedonian Creed. these included Unitarians and Universalists. A major issue for Protestants became the degree to which Man contributes to his salvation. The debate is often viewed as synergism versus monergism, though the labels Calvinist and Arminian are more frequently used, referring to the conclusion of the Synod of Dort.\n\nThe 19th century saw the rise of biblical criticism, new knowledge of religious diversity in other continents and above all the growth of science. This led many church men to espouse a form of Deism. This, along with concepts such as the brotherhood of man and a rejection of miracles led to what is called \"Classical liberalism\". Immensely influential in its day, classic liberalism suffered badly as a result of the two world wars and fell prey to the criticisms of postmodernism.\n\nVladimir Lossky is a famous Eastern Orthodox theologian writing in the 20th century for the Greek church.\n\nPostmodern theology seeks to respond to the challenges of post modern and deconstructionist thought, and has included the death of God movement, process theology, feminist theology and queer theology and most importantly Neo-orthodox theology. Karl Barth, Rudolf Bultmann and Reinhold Niebuhr were Neo-Orthodoxy's main representatives. In particular Barth labeled his theology \"dialectical theology\", a reference to existentialism.\n\nThe predominance of classic liberalism resulted in many reactionary movements amongst conservative believers. Evangelical theology, Pentecostal or Renewal theology and fundamentalist theology, often combined with dispensationalism, all moved from the fringe into the academy. Marxism stimulated the significant rise of liberation theology which can be interpreted as a rejection of Academic Theology that fails to challenge the establishment and help the poor.\n\nFrom the late 19th century to the early twentieth groups established themselves that derived many of their beliefs from Protestant evangelical groups but significantly differed in doctrine. These include the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Latter Day Saints and others. Many of these groups use the Protestant version of the bible and typically interpret it in a fundamentalist fashion, adding, however, special prophecy or scriptures, and typically denying the trinity and the full deity of Jesus Christ.\n\nEcumenical theology sought to discover a common consensus on theological matters that could bring the many Christian denominations together. As a movement it was successful in helping to provide a basis for the establishment of the World Council of Churches and for some reconciliation between more established denominations. But ecumenical theology was nearly always the concern of liberal theologians, especially Protestant ones. The movement for ecumenism was opposed especially by fundamentalists and viewed as flawed by many neo-orthodox and confessional Lutheran theologians.\n\nThe pattern of challenge from a changing world, liberal response from official representatives and orthodox backlash from conservatives is found also in the history of Islam and Judaism. Reform Judaism represents a liberal interpretation as against Orthodox Judaism, and moderate or liberal Islam continues to be theologically distinct from Islamic fundamentalism, notably its Wahabi and Deobandi Schools.\n"}
{"id": "1119605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119605", "title": "Interpretation of tongues", "text": "Interpretation of tongues\n\nIn Christian theology, interpretation of tongues is one of the spiritual gifts listed in 1 Corinthians 12. This gift is used in conjunction with that of the gift of tongues—the supernatural ability to speak in a language (tongue) unknown to the speaker. The gift of interpretation is the supernatural enablement to express in an intelligible language an utterance spoken in an unknown tongue. This is not learned but imparted by the Holy Spirit; therefore, it should not be confused with the acquired skill of language interpretation. While cessationist Christians believe this miraculous charism has ceased, Pentecostal and charismatic Christians believe this gift continues to operate within the church.\n\nMuch of what is known about this gift was recorded by St. Paul in 1 Corinthians 14. In this passage, guidelines for the proper use of the gift of tongues were given. In order for the gift of tongues to be beneficial the edification of the church, such supernatural utterances were to be interpreted into the language of the gathered Christians. If no one among the gathered Christians possessed the gift of interpretation, then the gift of tongues was not to be publicly exercised. Those possessing the gift of tongues were encouraged to pray for the ability to interpret.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "324559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324559", "title": "Kanun (Albania)", "text": "Kanun (Albania)\n\nThe Kanun is a set of traditional Albanian laws. The Kanun was primarily oral and only in the 20th century was it published in writing. The Kanun of Lekë Dukagjini () was codified in the 15th century. Six later variations eventually evolved:\n\nThe Kanun of Skanderbeg is the closest in similarity with the Kanun of Lekë Dukagjini, and the latter is usually the most known and is also regarded as a synonym of the word \"kanun\". The Kanun of Lekë Dukagjini was developed by Lekë Dukagjini, who codified the existing customary laws. It has been used mostly in northern and central Albania and surrounding areas formerly in Yugoslavia where there is a large ethnic Albanian population; Montenegro, Kosovo and Macedonia. It was first codified in the 15th century but the use of it has been outspread much earlier in time. It was used under that form until the 20th century, and revived recently after the fall of the communist regime in the early 1990s.\n\nThe term \"kanun\" comes from the Greek \"\" (\"canon\"), meaning amongst others \"pole\" or \"rule\" and was transported from Greek to Arabic and then into early Turkish. Kanun was also known by the word of \"Doke\".\n\nThe practice of the oral laws that Lekë Dukagjini codified in the Kanun was suggested by Edith Durham as dating back to the Bronze Age. Some authors have conjectured that the Kanun may derive from ancient Illyrian tribal laws. Other authors have suggested that the Kanun has retained elements from Indo-European prehistoric eras.\n\nHowever several stratifications can be easily observed in the code, beginning with pre-Indo-European, Indo-European, Ancient Greek, Roman, general Balkan and Osmanli.\n\nAccording to Serbian authors T. O. Oraovac and S. S. Djuric, it is largely based on Dušan's Code, the constitution of the Serbian Empire (enacted 1349), which at the time held the whole of Albania. Noel Malcolm speculates that an article in Dušan's Code was an early attempt to clamp down on the self-administered customary law of the mountains, as later codified in the Kanun of Lek Dukagjin, and if so, this would be the earliest evidence that such customary laws were in effect. Despite the similarities the majority of scientists agree that the Code of Leke Dukagjini is not the same as Dusans Code and that such conclusions are \"far-fetched\". When the Turkish invaders conquered the medieval Serbian state many customary laws of social life amongst the Balkan peoples were brought back to use, this included the Albanians. \nThe town of Shkodra had for example, before Dušan's Code, its own customary laws and rules.\n\nThe Law of Lek Dukagjini (kanun) was named after a medieval prince Lekë Dukagjini of the fifteenth century who ruled in northern Albania and codified the customary laws of the highlands. The code was written down only in the 19th century by Shtjefën Gjeçovi and partially published in the \"Hylli i Drites\" periodical in 1913. The full version appeared only in 1933 after Gjeçovi's death in 1926. In 1989 a dual English-Albanian version was published. and then replicated in a 1992 version.\n\nAlthough the laws are attributed to Lekë Dukagjini, the laws evolved over time as a way to bring law and rule to these lands. The Kanun is divided into 12 sections, and Gjeçovi's version has 1,262 articles which regulate all aspects of the mountainous life: economic organisation of the household, hospitality, brotherhood, clan, boundaries, work, marriage, land, and so on. The \"Besa\" (personal honour, compare with Lat. \"fides\") and nderi (family honour, Lat. \"honor\") are of prime importance throughout the code as the cornerstone of personal and social conduct. The Kanun applies to both Christian and Muslim Albanians.\n\nSome of the most controversial rules of the Kanun (in particular book 10 section 3) specify how murder is supposed to be handled, which often in the past and sometimes still now led to blood feuds that last until all the men of the two involved families are killed. In situations of murder tribal law stipulates the principle of \"koka për kokë\" (head for a head) where the relatives of the victim are obliged to seek \"gjakmarje\" (blood vengeance). Women are only seen as producers of offspring and are referred to in a discriminatory manner and so are not considered worthy targets. The Albanian name for blood feud is \"Gjakmarrja\". In some parts of the country, the Kanun resembles the Italian vendetta. These rules have resurfaced during the 1990s in Northern Albania, since people had no faith in the powerless local government and police. There are organizations that try to mediate between feuding families and try to get them to \"pardon the blood\" (), but often the only resort is for men of age to stay in their homes, which are considered a safe refuge by the Kanuni, or flee the country. Tribal also held that thieves would need to pay fines to the relative amount that was stolen.\n\nAlbanian tribes from the Dibra region (known as the \"Tigers of Dibra\") governed themselves according to the Law of Skanderbeg, named after a fifteenth century warrior who fought the Ottomans.\n\nFormer communist leader of Albania Enver Hoxha effectively stopped the practice of Kanun with hard repression and a very strong state police. However, after the fall of communism, some communities have tried to rediscover the old traditions, but some of their parts have been lost, leading to fears of misinterpretation.\n\nNotably, the current Albanian Penal Code does not contain any provisions from the Kanun that deal with blood feuds, and no acknowledgment of this code is made in the contemporary Albanian legal system. In 2014 about 3,000 Albanian families were estimated to be involved in blood feuds and this since the fall of Communism has led to the deaths of 10,000 people.\n\nThe Kanun is based on four pillars:\n\nThe \"Kanun of Lekë Dukagjini\" is composed of 12 books and 1,262 articles. The books and their subdivisions are the following:\n\nAlbanian writer Ismail Kadare evokes the Kanun several times in his books and has it as the main theme in his novel Broken April. He also evoques the kanun in his novel (), where Kadare literally describes the Monastir massacre of 1830 as the struggle between two empires: the Albanian Kanun with its code of \"besa\" and the Ottoman Empire itself. According to Kadare in his literary critique book (), where \"loser\" refers to the great number of tragedies that were lost from Aeschylus, there are evident similarities between the \"kanun\" and the vendetta customs in all the Mediterranean countries.\n\nBarbara Nadel's \"Deep Waters\" refers to Kanun and Gjakmarrja.\n\nJoshua Marston's 2011 film The Forgiveness of Blood, a drama set in modern-day Albania, deals with the Kanun. The film relates a blood feud between two families in Northern Albania, focusing primarily on how the feud affects the children of one family.\n\nThe Kanun is referred to in season 6, episode 9 of (\"\") as the explanation for the sudden retreat of a group of Albanian assassins.\n\nThe Kanun plays a major role in the Belgian movie Dossier K.\n\nElvira Dones's \"Sworn Virgin\" refers to Kanun and women's practice of swearing celibacy in return to being accepted as men by all local villagers.\n\nBelgian TV maker Tom Waes visited Albania during one of the shows in his series Reizen Waes. He was served spit roasted goat and was offered the head of the goat. According to Kanun rules, this is how they honor a guest during dinner.\n\nThe Kanun is referred to in \"The Closer\" Season 6 | Episode 14 \"The investigation into the Albanian blood feud\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "299972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299972", "title": "Lebensborn", "text": "Lebensborn\n\nLebensborn e.V. (literally: \"Fount of Life\") was an SS-initiated, state-supported, registered association in Nazi Germany with the goal of raising the birth rate of \"Aryan\" children of persons classified as \"racially pure and healthy\" based on Nazi racial hygiene and health ideology. Lebensborn provided welfare to its mostly unmarried mothers, encouraged anonymous births by unmarried women at their maternity homes, and mediated adoption of these children by likewise \"racially pure and healthy\" parents, particularly SS members and their families. The Cross of Honour of the German Mother was given to the women who bore the most Aryan children. Abortion was legalised by the Nazis for disabled children.\n\nInitially set up in Germany in 1935, \"Lebensborn\" expanded into several occupied European countries with Germanic populations during the Second World War. It included the selection of \"racially worthy\" orphans for adoption and care for children born from Aryan women who had been in relationships with SS members. It originally excluded children born from unions between common soldiers and foreign women, because there was no proof of racial purity on both sides. During the war, many children were kidnapped from their parents and judged by \"aryan\" criteria for their suitability to be raised in Lebensborn homes, and fostering by German families.\n\nAt the Nuremberg Trials, much direct evidence was found of the kidnapping of children by Nazi Germany, across Greater Germany during the period 1939-45.\n\nThe \"Lebensborn e. V.\" (e.V. stands for \"eingetragener Verein\" or registered association), meaning \"fount of life\", was founded on 12 December 1935, to counteract falling birth rates in Germany, and to promote Nazi eugenics. Located in Munich, the organization was partly an office within the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) responsible for certain family welfare programs, and partly a society for Nazi leaders.\n\nOn 13 September 1936, Heinrich Himmler wrote the following to members of the SS:\n\nIn 1939, membership stood at 8,000, of which 3,500 were SS leaders.\nThe \"Lebensborn\" office was part of \"SS Rasse und Siedlungshauptamt\" (SS Race and Settlement Main Office) until 1938, when it was transferred to \"Hauptamt Persönlicher Stab Reichsführer-SS\" (Personal Staff of the \"Reichführer\"-SS), i.e. directly overseen by Himmler. Leaders of \"Lebensborn e. V.\" were \"SS-Standartenführer\" Max Sollmann and \"SS-Oberführer\" Dr. Gregor Ebner.\n\nInitially the programme served as a welfare institution for wives of SS officers; the organization ran facilitiesprimarily maternity homeswhere women could give birth or get help with family matters. The programme also accepted unmarried women who were either pregnant or had already given birth and were in need of aid, provided that both the woman and the father of the child were classified as \"racially valuable\". About 60% of the mothers were unmarried. The program allowed them to give birth secretly away from home without social stigma. In case the mothers wanted to give up the children, the program also had orphanages and an adoption service. When dealing with non-SS members, parents and children were usually examined by SS doctors before admission.\n\nThe first \"Lebensborn\" home (known as 'Heim Hochland') opened in 1936, in Steinhöring, a tiny village not far from Munich. The first home outside of Germany opened in Norway in 1941. Many of these facilities were established in confiscated houses and former nursing homes owned by Jews. Leaders of the League of German Girls were instructed to recruit young women with the potential to become good breeding partners for SS officers.\n\nWhile \"Lebensborn e. V.\" established facilities in several occupied countries, its activities were concentrated around Germany, Norway and occupied northeastern Europe, mainly Poland. The main focus in occupied Norway was aiding children born to Norwegian women and fathered by German soldiers. In northeastern Europe the organisation, in addition to services provided to SS members, engaged in the transfer of children, mostly orphans, to families in Germany.\n\n\"Lebensborn e. V.\" had or planned to have facilities in the following countries (some were merely field offices):\n\nAbout 8,000 children were born in \"Lebensborn\" homes in Germany, and between 8,000 and 12,000 children in Norway. Elsewhere the total number of births was much lower. For more information about \"Lebensborn\" in Norway, see war children.\n\nIn Norway the \"Lebensborn\" organisation handled approximately 250 adoptions. In most of these cases the mothers had agreed to the adoption, but not all were informed that their children would be sent to Germany for adoption. The Norwegian government recovered all but 80 of these children after the war.\n\nIn 1939, the Nazis started to kidnap children from foreign countriesmainly from Yugoslavia and Poland, but also including Russia, Ukraine, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Estonia, Latvia, and Norwayfor the \"Lebensborn\" program. They started to do this because \"It is our duty to take [the children] with us to remove them from their environment... either we win over any good blood that we can use for ourselves and give it a place in our people or we destroy this blood,\" Himmler reportedly said.\n\nThe Nazis would seize children in full view of the parents. The kidnapped children were administered several tests and were categorised into three groups:\n\nThe children classified as unwanted were taken to concentration camps to work or were killed. The children from the other groups, if between the ages of 2 and 6, were placed with families in the programme to be brought up by them in a kind of foster child status. Children of ages 6 to 12 were placed in German boarding schools. The schools assigned the children new German names and taught them to be proud to be part of Germany. They forced the children to forget their birth parents and erased any records of their ancestry. Those who resisted Germanisation were beaten and, if a child continued to rebel, he or she would be sent to a concentration camp.\n\nIn the final stages of the war, the files of all children kidnapped for the programme were destroyed. As a result, researchers have found it nearly impossible to learn how many children were taken. The Polish government has claimed that 10,000 children were kidnapped, and less than 15% were returned to their biological parents. Other estimates include numbers as high as 200,000, although according to Dirk Moses a more likely number is around 20,000.\n\nAfter the war, the branch of the \"Lebensborn\" organisation operating in north-eastern Europe was accused of kidnapping children deemed racially valuable in order to resettle them with German families. However, of approximately 10,000 foreign-born children located after the war in the American-controlled area of Germany, in the trial of the leaders of the \"Lebensborn\" organisation (\"United States of America v. Ulrich Greifelt, et al.\"), the court found that 340 had been handled by \"Lebensborn e. V.\" The accused were acquitted on charges of kidnapping.\n\nThe court found ample evidence of an existing programme of the kidnapping or forced movement of children in north-eastern Europe, but concluded that these activities were carried out by individuals who were not members of \"Lebensborn\". Exactly how many children were moved by \"Lebensborn\" or other organisations remains unknown due to the destruction of archives by SS members prior to fleeing the advancing Allied forces.\n\nFrom the trial's transcript:\n\nThe prosecution has failed to prove with the requisite certainty the participation of \"Lebensborn\", and the defendants connected therewith in the kidnapping programme conducted by the Nazis. While the evidence has disclosed that thousands upon thousands of children were unquestionably kidnapped by other agencies or organisations and brought into Germany, the evidence has further disclosed that only a small percentage of the total number ever found their way into \"Lebensborn\". And of this number only in isolated instances did \"Lebensborn\" take children who had a living parent. The majority of those children in any way connected with \"Lebensborn\" were orphans of ethnic Germans.\n\nUpon the evidence submitted, the defendant Sollmann is found not guilty on counts one and two of the indictment.\n\nAfter Germany's surrender, the press reported on the unusually good weight and health of the \"super babies\". They spent time outdoors in sunlight and received two baths a day. Everything that came into contact with the babies was disinfected first. Nurses ensured that the children ate everything given to them. Until the last days of the war, the mothers and the children at maternity homes got the best treatment available, including food, although others in the area were starving. Once the war ended, local communities often took revenge on the women, beating them, cutting off their hair, and running them out of the community. Many \"Lebensborn\" children were born to unwed mothers. After the war, \"Lebensborn\" survivors were often subjected to ostracization.\n\nHimmler's effort to secure a racially pure Greater Germany and sloppy journalism on the subject in the early years after the war led to false assumptions about the programme. The main misconception was that the programme involved coercive breeding. The first stories reporting that \"Lebensborn\" was a coercive breeding programme can be found in the German magazine \"Revue\", which ran a series on the subject in the 1950s. The 1961 German film \"Der Lebensborn\" purported that young girls were forced to mate with Nazi men in their camps.\n\nThe programme did intend to promote the growth of Aryan populations, through encouraging relationships between German soldiers and Nordic women in occupied countries. Access to \"Lebensborn\" was restricted in accordance with the Nordicist eugenic and racial policies of Nazism, which could be referred to as supervised selective breeding. Recently discovered records and ongoing testimony of \"Lebensborn\" childrenand some of their parentsshows that some SS men did sire children in Himmler's \"Lebensborn\" program. This was widely rumored within Germany during the period of the programme.\n\nHelp, recognition, and justice for \"Lebensborn\" survivors have been varied.\n\nIn Norway, children born to Norwegian mothers by Nazi fathers were allegedly often bullied, raped and abused after the war, and placed in mental institutions. The Norwegian government attempted to deport \"Lebensborn\" to Germany, Brazil, and Australia but did not succeed. A group of survivors attempted to fight the Norwegian government into admitting complicity. In 2008, their case before the European Court of Human Rights was dismissed, but they were each offered a £8,000 token from the Norwegian government.\n\nIn November 2006, in the German town of Wernigerode, an open meeting took place among several \"Lebensborn\" children, with the intention of dispelling myths and encouraging those affected to investigate their origins.\n\nSweden took in several hundred \"Lebensborn\" children from Norway after the war. A famous survivor is Anni-Frid Lyngstad, a member of the music group ABBA. Her father was a sergeant in the \"Wehrmacht\", and her mother was Norwegian; to escape persecution after the war, her grandmother took Anni-Frid to Sweden.\n\nOther countries that had \"Lebensborn\" clinics include France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland and Luxembourg.\n\nGeneral documents on \"Lebensborn\" activities are administered by International Tracing Service and by German Federal Archives. The association \"Verein kriegskind.de\" is among those that published search efforts (\"Suchbitten\") to identify \"Lebensborn\" children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43079064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43079064", "title": "Limiting case (philosophy of science)", "text": "Limiting case (philosophy of science)\n\nIn the philosophy of science, under the correspondence principle, a limiting case theory is an earlier theory which becomes incorporated into a later, usually broader theory; that is to say, the earlier (limiting case) theory proves to be a special or limited case of the later theory. Technically, a theory is said to be a limiting case of another, later theory when and if the later theory subsumes the theoretical relations and apparent referents of the earlier one. For example, physicists agree that classical mechanics constitutes a low-energy limiting case of relativity theory.\n\nIn words of Larry Laudan, realist philosophers use this phrase in the sense that the theory \"T can be a limiting case of [the theory] T only if (a) \"all\" the variables (observable and theoretical) assigned a value in T are assigned a value by T and (b) the values assigned to every variable of T are the same as, or very close to, the values T assigns to the corresponding variable when certain initial and boundary conditions—consistent with T—are specified\".\n\nThe idea that a theory (in our previous example, Newtonian mechanics) that is close to being true (i.e., that is verisimil) converges as a limiting case into a superior theory (in this example, relativistic mechanics) can be an argument for scientific realism, as the theoretical entities postulated by the previous theories are still considered existent (if one assumes semantic realism, they are considered existent because they are referred to) in the successor theories.\n\n"}
{"id": "765400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765400", "title": "Lineage (Buddhism)", "text": "Lineage (Buddhism)\n\nA lineage in Buddhism is a line of transmission of the Buddhist teaching that is \"theoretically traced back to the Buddha himself.\" The acknowledgement of the transmission can be oral, or certified in documents. Several branches of Buddhism, including Chan (including Zen and Seon) and Tibetan Buddhism maintain records of their historical teachers. These records serve as a validation for the living exponents of the tradition.\n\nThe historical authenticity of Buddhist lineage is questionable. Stephen Batchelor has claimed, speaking about specifically Japanese Zen lineage, \"the historicity of this “lineage” simply does not withstand critical scrutiny.\" Erik Storlie has noted that transmission \"is simply false on historical grounds.\" Edward Conze said \"much of the traditions about the early history of Chan are the inventions of a later age.\"\n\nIn the lineage of the vinaya, the requirements for ordination as a bhikkhu (\"monk\") or a bhikkhuni (\"nun\") include the presence of at least five other monks, one of whom must be a fully ordained preceptor, and another an acharya (teacher). This lineage for ordaining bhikshunis became extinct in the Theravada school and in Tibetan Buddhism. Therefore, when śrāmaṇerikās like Tenzin Palmo wanted full ordination, she had to travel to Hong Kong.\n\nLineages in the Mahasiddha tradition do not necessarily originate from Gautama Buddha, but are ultimately grounded, like all Buddhist lineages, in the Adi-Buddha.\n\nThe idea of a patriarchal lineage in Chan Buddhism dates back to the epitaph for Fărú (法如 638–689), a disciple of the 5th patriarch, Hóngrĕn (弘忍 601–674). In the \"Long Scroll of the Treatise on the Two Entrances and Four Practices\" and the \"Continued Biographies of Eminent Monks\", Daoyu and Huike are the only explicitly identified disciples of Bodhidharma. The epitaph gives a line of descent identifying Bodhidharma as the first patriarch.\n\nIn the 6th century biographies of famous monks were collected. From this genre the typical Chan-lineage was developed:\nD. T. Suzuki contends that Chan's growth in popularity during the 7th and 8th centuries attracted criticism that it had \"no authorized records of its direct transmission from the founder of Buddhism\" and that Chan historians made Bodhidharma the 28th patriarch of Buddhism in response to such attacks.\n\nThe earliest lineages described the lineage from Bodhidharma to Huineng. There is no generally accepted 7th Chinese Patriarch.\n\nThe principle teachers of the Chan, Zen and Seon traditions are commonly known in English translations as \"Patriarchs\". However, the more precise terminology would be \"Ancestors\" or \"Founders\" () and \"Ancestral Masters\" or \"Founding Masters\" (), as the commonly used Chinese terms are gender neutral. Various records of different authors are known, which give a variation of transmission lines:\n\nEventually these descriptions of the lineage evolved into a continuous lineage from Gautama Buddha to Bodhidharma. The idea of a line of descent from Gautama is the basis for the distinctive lineage tradition of Chan.\n\nAccording to the \"Song of Enlightenment\" (證道歌 \"Zhèngdào gē\") by Yǒngjiā Xuánjué (665-713), one of the chief disciples of Huineng, Bodhidharma was the 28th Patriarch of Buddhism in a line of descent from Gautama Buddha through his disciple Mahākāśyapa:\nThe \"Denkoroku\" gives 28 patriarchs in this transmission, and 53 overall:\n\nTwenty-four different Zen lineages are recorded to be transmitted to Japan. Only three survived until today. Sōtō was transmitted to Japan by Dōgen, who travelled to China for Chan training in the 13th century. After receiving Dharma transmission in the Caodong school, he returned to Japan and established the lineage there, where it is called the Sōtō.\n\nThe Linji school was also transmitted to Japan several times, where it is the Rinzai school.\n\nIn Jōdo Shinshū, \"Patriarch\" refers to seven Indian, Chinese and Japanese masters before its founder, Shinran.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama, in the foreword to \"Karmapa: The Sacred Prophecy\" states:Within the context of Tibetan Buddhism, the importance of lineage extends far beyond the ordinary sense of a particular line of inheritance or descent. Lineage is a sacred trust through which the integrity of Buddha's teachings is preserved intact as it is transmitted from one generation to the next. The vital link through which the spiritual tradition is nourished and maintained is the profound connection between an enlightened master and perfectly devoted disciple. The master-disciple relationship is considered extremely sacred by all the major schools of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nWallace renders into English a citation of Karma Chagme (, fl. 17th century) that contains an embedded quotation attributed to Nāropā (956-1041):\nGyatrul (b. 1924), in a purport to Karma Chagme, conveys Dilgo Khyentse's 'samaya', diligence and humility in receiving Vajrayana empowerment, lineal Dharma transmission and \"rlung\", as rendered into English by Wallace (Chagmé \"et al.\", 1998: p. 21):\nChöd is an advanced spiritual practice known as \"Cutting Through the Ego.\" This practice, based on the Prajnaparamita sutra, uses specific meditations and tantric ritual.\n\nThere are several hagiographic accounts of how chöd came to Tibet. One \"namtar\" (hagiography) asserts that shortly after Kamalaśīla won his famous debate with Moheyan as to whether Tibet should adopt the \"sudden\" route to enlightenment or his own \"gradual\" route, Kamalaśīla enacted \"phowa\", transferring his mindstream to animate a corpse polluted with contagion in order to safely move the hazard it presented. As the mindstream of Kamalaśīla was otherwise engaged, a mahasiddha named Dampa Sangye came across the vacant \"kuten\" or \"physical basis\" of Kamalaśīla. Dampa Sangye was not karmically blessed with an aesthetic corporeal form, and upon finding the very handsome and healthy empty body of Kamalaśīla, which he assumed to be a newly dead fresh corpse, used phowa to transfer his own mindstream into Kamalaśīla's body. Dampa Sangye's mindstream in Kamalaśīla's body continued the ascent to the Himalaya and thereby transmitted the Pacification of Suffering teachings and the Indian form of Chöd which contributed to the Mahamudra Chöd of Machig Labdrön. The mindstream of Kamalaśīla was unable to return to his own \"kuten\" and so was forced to enter the vacant body of Dampa Sangye.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6674839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674839", "title": "List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education", "text": "List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education\n\nThis List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education is a sub-article of Waldorf education\n\nRudolf Steiner's works on education include the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "45223847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45223847", "title": "List of schools and lineages of Tibetan Buddhism", "text": "List of schools and lineages of Tibetan Buddhism\n\nThis is a list of schools and lineages of Tibetan Buddhism. It includes monastic and ngagpa lineages. It includes lineages that are entirely non-Tibetan in their current teaching membership, but which are derived from Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nThe diagram to the right shows the growth of Tibetan Buddhist traditions. The four main ones overlap markedly, such that \"about eighty percent or more of the features of the Tibetan schools are the same\". Differences include the use of apparently, but not actually, contradictory terminology, opening dedications of texts to different deities and whether phenomena are described from the viewpoint of an unenlightened practitioner or of a Buddha. On questions of philosophy they have no fundamental differences, according to the Fourteenth Dalai Lama The Tibetan adjectival suffix \"-pa\" is translatable as \"-ist\" in English.\n\nThese first four major schools are sometimes said to constitute the Nyingma \"Old Translation\" and Sarma \"New Translation\" traditions, the latter following from the historical Kadam lineage of translations and tantric lineages. Another common but trivial differentiation is into the Yellow Hat (Gelug) and Red Hat (non-Gelug) sects, a division that mirrors the distinction between the schools involved in the Rimé movement versus the one that did not, the Gelug. The correspondences are as follows:\n\"The Ancient Ones\" are the oldest Buddhist school, the original order founded by Padmasambhava and Śāntarakṣita. Whereas other schools categorize their teachings into the three yānas or \"vehicles\", Hinayana, Mahayana and Vajrayana, the Nyingma tradition classifies its teachings into Nine Yānas, among the highest of which is Dzogchen. Terma \"treasures\" (revealed texts) are of particular significance to the Nyingma school.\n\n\n“Lineage of the (Buddha's) Word”. This is an oral tradition which is very much concerned with the experiential dimension of meditation. Its most famous exponent was Milarepa, an 11th-century mystic. It contains one major and one minor subsect. The first, the Dagpo Kagyu, encompasses those Kagyu schools that trace back to the Indian master Naropa via Marpa Lotsawa, Milarepa and Gampopa and consists of four major sub-sects: the Karma Kagyu, headed by a Karmapa, the Tsalpa Kagyu, the Barom Kagyu, and Pagtru Kagyu. There are a further eight minor sub-sects, all of which trace their root to Pagtru Kagyu and the most notable of which are the Drikung and Drukpa Lineages. The once-obscure Shangpa Kagyu, which was famously represented by the 20th century teacher Kalu Rinpoche, traces its history back to the Indian master Naropa via Niguma, Sukhasiddhi and Kyungpo Naljor.\n\nThe \"Grey Earth\" school represents the scholarly tradition. Headed by the Sakya Trizin, this tradition was founded by Khön Könchok Gyelpo (, 1034–1102), a disciple of the great lotsāwa Drogmi Shākya () and traces its lineage to the mahasiddha Virūpa. A renowned exponent, Sakya Pandita (1182–1251CE), was the great-grandson of Khön Könchok Gyelpo.\n\nThe \"Way of Virtue\" school was originally a reformist movement and is known for its emphasis on logic and debate. The order was founded in the 14th to 15th century by Je Tsongkhapa, renowned for both his scholarship and virtue. Its spiritual head is the Ganden Tripa.\n\nThe Jonang is a minor school that branched off from Sakya traditions; it was suppressed in 1650 in Gelug-controlled regions and subsequently banned and its monks and nuns converted to the Gelug school in 1658.\n\nThe Jonang re-established their religio-political center in Golok, Nakhi and Mongol areas in Kham and Amdo centered at Dzamthang Monastery and have continued practicing uninterrupted to this day. An estimated 5,000 monks and nuns of the Jonang tradition practice today in these areas and at the edges of historic Gelug influence.\n\nHowever, their teachings were limited to these regions until the Rimé movement of the 19th century encouraged the study of non-Gelug schools of thought and practice. In modern times has been encouraged to grow by the 14th Dalai Lama, who installed the 9th Jebtsundamba Khutughtu as its head.\n"}
{"id": "26258419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26258419", "title": "Ljubomir Cuculovski", "text": "Ljubomir Cuculovski\n\nLjubomir Cuculovski (born 1 September 1948 in Bitola, Republic of Macedonia) is a Macedonian philosopher and professor in Skopje. He graduated from the Department of Philosophy, Faculty of Philosophy of Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje, with a thesis on \"The Sources of Bergson’s Theory of Knowledge\". Then he received his master's title in sociological science in 1982, at the Institute for Sociological, Political and Juridical Research in Skopje, with a thesis on Religion and Morality. He received his PhD in philosophical sciences from the Faculty of Philosophy in Skopje in 1992, with a dissertation on \"Karl Marx: The Origin of Historical Materialism (1841–1849)\".\n\nIn 1973–1975, Cuculovski was a teaching assistant at the Institute for Sociological, Political and Juridical Research in Skopje. From 1975 onwards, he was employed at the Faculty of Philosophy (Department of Philosophy), Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje. In 1992 he was appointed a docent, while in 2002, he became a full professor. In 2000, Professor Ljubomir Cuculovski was elected a President of the University Senate of that university. He was also the head of the Department of Philosophy at the Faculty of Philosophy, for two terms (1999–2005). In 2007 he was appointed a professor ordinarius.\n\nTo date, he has held numerous courses, including History of Marxism. He has held lectures and tutorials on Philosophy of Religion, Theories of Religion, and Introduction to Philosophy. His philosophical interest is primarily centered on the problem of human alienation and on the fundamental philosophical issues and problems directly related to the metaphysical questions of God, his existence, good and evil in the context of the assumption that a good and wise God has created the world. He is of the opinion that the problem of theodicy is the central issue in any philosophy of religion. In social and political philosophy, he sides with Marx's analysis and understanding of the world of capital and its functioning.\nAt the same time, he is actively involved in the teaching activities in the following departments at the Faculty of Philosophy: Department of Philosophy, Department of Defense and Peace Studies, and Department of Art History and Archeology. Retired in 2013.\n\nSo far he has published over 600 articles in scientific and professional journals, both in Macedonia and ex-Yugoslavia. Some of his texts and interviews have been published in daily or weekly newspapers in other countries (Bulgaria, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Croatia, ...). The central issues in his analysis are the contemporary social and political circumstances in the Republic of Macedonia and a critical analysis of the process of globalization, which he understands as externalization, which is equivalent with Americanization, with an overall tendency to reduce all values and behavioral models to one – the American.\n\nHe is also a member of the editorial board of the journal \"Novi Plamen\" (English \"New Flame\") and \"Philosophia\", the journal of the Philosophical Society of Macedonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20003517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20003517", "title": "Lunheng", "text": "Lunheng\n\nThe Lunheng, also known by numerous English translations, is a wide-ranging Chinese classic text by Wang Chong (27- CE). First published in 80CE, it contains critical essays on natural science and Chinese mythology, philosophy, and literature.\nThe title \"Lunheng\" combines \"lun\" or \"discuss; talk about; discourse; decide on; determine; mention; regard; consider\" and \"heng\" \"crosswise; balance beam; weigh; measure; judge; appreciate\". English translations of the title include \"Disquisitions\" (Alfred Forke), \"Critical Essays\" (Fung Yu-lan), \"The Balanced Inquiries\" (Wing-tsit Chan), or \"Discourses Weighed in the Balance\" (Joseph Needham).\n\nThe received \"Lunheng\" comprises 85 \"pian\" \"articles; sections; chapters\" in 30 \"juan\" \"scrolls; volumes; books\", with more than 200,000 characters. Actually, 84 \"pian\" is more accurate because the text only contains the title of Chapter 44 \"Zhaozhi\" 招致.\n\nYang Wenchang (楊文昌) edited the first printed \"Lunheng\" edition, which was the basis for subsequent editions. Its 1045 CE preface notes that Yang compared 2 complete and 7 partial textual copies and corrected 11,259 characters.\n\n\"No commentaries to the \"Lun heng\" appear to have been written before the nineteenth century,\" write Pokora and Loewe (1993:311), which is unusual among Chinese classics. The first \"Lunheng\" commentators were Yu Yue (1821–1907), Sun Yirang (1848–1908), and Yang Shoujing (1839–1915).\n\nBased on internal evidence, Forke (1907:9) concludes the Later Han Dynasty \"Lunheng\" text \"must date\" from the years 76-84 CE. Chapter 38 (齊世 \"The Equality of the Ages\", tr. Forke 1907:480) says, \"Our present sage and enlightened sovereign is continuing the blessings and the prosperity of the reigns of\" Emperor Guangwu (r. 25-57 CE) and Emperor Ming (r. 58-75 CE), which implies the period of Emperor Zhang (r. 75-88 CE). Chapter 30 (講瑞 \"Arguments on Ominous Creatures\", tr. Forke 1907:372) notes it was completed during the \"Jianchu\" 建初 era (76-84 CE).\n\nFung (1953:151) notes the \"Lunheng\" \"was probably completed\" during the years 82 and 83 CE. \"The authenticity of the work has not been brought into question\", write Pokora and Loewe (1993:309), and the text \"may possibly have been completed between 70 and 80\", based upon collections of Wang's earlier writings or essays.\n\nThe contents of the \"Lunheng\" are summarized by Pokora and Loewe.\nIn discussing natural phenomena and their implications or causes, matters of popular belief and misconception and political issues, the book is often written in polemical form. A controversial statement is made, to be followed by the author's critical rebuttal, which is often supported by quotations from earlier writings. In many ways the \"Lun heng\" may be regarded as an encyclopaedic collection of the claims and beliefs of Chinese religion, thought and folklore. (1993:313) \n\nWang's \"Lunheng\" frequently espouses Daoist notions of naturalism. For example, Chapter 54 \"Ziran\" 自然 \"Spontaneity\" says.\nBy the fusion of the fluids [\"qi\"] of Heaven and Earth all things of the world are produced spontaneously, just as by the mixture of the fluids of husband and wife children are born spontaneously. Among the things thus produced, creatures with blood in their veins are sensitive of hunger and cold. Seeing that grain can be eaten, they use it as food, and discovering that silk and hemp can be worn, they take it as raiment. Some people are of opinion that Heaven produces grain for the purpose of feeding mankind, and silk and hemp to cloth them. That would be tantamount to making Heaven the farmer of man or his mulberry girl [who feeds the silkworms], it would not be in accordance with spontaneity, therefore this opinion is very questionable and unacceptable. \n\nReasoning on Taoist principles we find that Heaven [\"tian\"] emits its fluid everywhere. Among the many things of this world grain dispels hunger, and silk and hemp protect from cold. For that reason man eats grain, and wears silk and hemp. That Heaven does not produce grain, silk, and hemp purposely, in order to feed and cloth[e] mankind, follows from the fact that by calamitous changes it does not intend to reprove man. Things are produced spontaneously, and man wears and eats them; the fluid changes spontaneously, and man is frightened by it, for the usual theory is disheartening. Where would be spontaneity, if the heavenly signs were intentional, and where inaction [\"wu wei\"]? (tr. Forke 1907:92, cf. Fung 1953:152 and Chan 1963:296) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "54317009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54317009", "title": "Mahdi Fadaei Mehrabani", "text": "Mahdi Fadaei Mehrabani\n\nMahdi Fadaei Mehrabani ( | born 1982) is an Iranian writer and researcher in Islamic philosophy, mysticism and political philosophy. He is one of the winners of Farabi International Award, 2009 and the Winner of Iran’s Book of the Year Awards, 2016. Mehrabani has written several books and articles and currently is an assistant Professor at University of Tehran. Mehrabani used to be a researcher at State University of New York (Stony Brook) from 2017 to 2018. \n\nBooks\n\nSelected articles\n\n"}
{"id": "1775318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1775318", "title": "Meekness", "text": "Meekness\n\nMeekness is an attribute of human nature and behavior. It has been defined several ways: righteous, humble, teachable, and patient under suffering, long suffering willing to follow gospel teachings; an attribute of a true disciple.\n\nMeekness has been contrasted with humility as referring to behavior towards others, whereas humility refers to an attitude towards oneself – meekness meaning restraining one's own power, so as to allow room for others.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11180023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11180023", "title": "Meta-ontology", "text": "Meta-ontology\n\nMeta-ontology is a term of recent origin first used by Peter van Inwagen in analyzing Willard Van Orman Quine's critique of Rudolf Carnap's metaphysics, where Quine introduced a formal technique for determining the ontological commitments in a comparison of ontologies.\n\nThomas Hofweber, while acknowledging that the use of the term is controversial, suggests that, although strictly construed meta-ontology is a separate metatheory of ontology, the field of ontology can be more broadly construed as containing its metatheory. Advocates of the term seek to distinguish 'ontology', which investigates what there is, from 'meta'-ontology, which investigates what we are asking when we ask what there is.\n\nJonathan Schaffer argues that there is a different question for meta-ontology to discuss, namely the classification of ontologies according to the hierarchical connections between the objects in them, and the determination of which objects are fundamental and which are derived. He describes three possible types of ontology: \"flat\", that is an array of undifferentiated objects; \"sorted\", that is an array of classified objects; and \"ordered\", that is an array of inter-related objects. Schaffer says Quine's ontology is \"flat\", a mere listing of objects, while Aristotle's is \"ordered\", with an emphasis upon identifying the most fundamental objects.\n\nAmie L. Thomasson says that the Carnap-Quine debate is misplaced when it focuses (as done by Van Inwagen) upon the analytic-synthetic distinction between entities: \"The real distinction instead [that is, instead of the analytic-synthetic distinction] is between existence questions asked using a linguistic framework and existence questions that are supposed to be asked somehow without being subject to those rules—asked, as Quine puts it 'before the adoption of the given language'.\" These questions are what Carnap referred to as internal-external distinctions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46599728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46599728", "title": "Mouloud Kacem Naît Belkacem", "text": "Mouloud Kacem Naît Belkacem\n\nMouloud Kacem Naît Belkacem (6 January 1927 in Belaâyane, Ighil Ali - 27 August 1992) was an Algerian politician, philosopher, historian, and writer. He was a noted defender of the Arabic language, Islam and Algerian nationalism, and stressed the importance of Arabic identity in the world.\n\nHe studied in Tunis and Cairo, where he obtained a degree in philosophy. He then attended Sorbonne, and was a member of the Arabic academies in Jordan, Egypt and Syria, before he joined the Algerian revolution in 1954. In the 1970s he held various government posts, including Minister of Habous in 1970, Minister of Religious Affairs and Endowments from 1970 to 1977, and Minister to the President of the Republic, in charge of religious affairs from 1977 to 1979. He was also in charge of High Council of the Arabic language.\n"}
{"id": "28300567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28300567", "title": "Munich School of Philosophy", "text": "Munich School of Philosophy\n\nMunich School of Philosophy (German: \"Hochschule für Philosophie München\") is a small Jesuit higher education college in Munich, Germany founded in 1925. In the German-speaking countries it is the only institution of higher education exclusively specialized in the study of philosophy.\n\nFounded as a seminary at Pullach in 1925 by Augustin Bea, first named the Berchmanskolleg, it obtained the ability to issue a doctorate in 1932. In 1971 the school moved to central Munich and opened to non-Jesuit students. The majority of students are not members of the Jesuit Order, and now include women and international students. It is accredited by the Bavarian State Ministry of Sciences, Research and the Arts (in German: \"Bayerisches Staatsministerium für Wissenschaft, Forschung und Kunst\").\n\nSince 2009, the Munich School of Philosophy hosts the yearly \"Rahner Lecture\" in memory of the German Jesuit and theologian Karl Rahner.\n\nMost faculty members are Jesuits. The school has long stood in the tradition of Neo-Scholasticism. Only since the 1970s, when the school opened to non-Jesuit students, contemporary philosophy such as marxism, phenomenology and analytic philosophy have gained more prominence in the undergraduate and postgraduate education. To date, the undergraduate curriculum at the Munich School of Philosophy places much emphasis on the history of philosophy and issues pertaining to the study of religion.\n\nAs a Jesuit school, its objectives and purpose must be in accord with the apostolic constitution \"Sapientia Christiana\", Art. 79 and 80 in research and teaching:\n\nHarald Lesch is a German physicist, astronomer, natural philosopher, author, television presenter, and professor of physics at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (LMU) and lecturer of natural philosophy at the Munich School of Philosophy.\n\nNotable alumni include former minister-president of Baden-Württemberg Erwin Teufel and German politician and CDU party member Heiner Geißler.\n\nThe Munich School of Philosophy has six distinctive research centers:\n\nThe Munich School of Philosophy is currently not ranked in any major university web rankings due to its specialization in philosophy. It frequently cooperates with faculty members of two Munich universities, the Technical University Munich and the Ludwig-Maximilians-University which are both consistently ranked among Germany's foremost universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3137762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3137762", "title": "Neotribalism", "text": "Neotribalism\n\nNeotribalism (a.k.a. neo-tribalism and modern tribalism) is a sociological concept which postulates that human beings have evolved to live in tribal society, as opposed to mass society, and thus will naturally form social networks constituting new \"tribes\".\n\nFrench sociologist Michel Maffesoli was perhaps the first to use the term \"neotribalism\" in a scholarly context. Maffesoli predicted that as the culture and institutions of modernism declined, societies would embrace nostalgia and look to the organizational principles of the distant past for guidance, and that therefore the post-modern era would be the era of neotribalism.\n\nWork by researchers such as American political scientist Robert D. Putnam and a 2006 study by McPherson, Smith-Lovin and Brasiers published in the \"American Sociological Review\" seem to support at least the more moderate neotribalist arguments. Data has pointed to a general breakdown in the social structure of modern civilization due to more frequent moves for economic reasons, longer commutes and a lack of emphasis in the media narrative on the desirability of strong friendships and community bonds.\n\n"}
{"id": "36435268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36435268", "title": "New Testament household code", "text": "New Testament household code\n\nThe New Testament Household Codes (\"Haustafeln\"), also known as New Testament Domestic Codes, consist of instructions in the New Testament writings of the apostles Paul and Peter to pairs of Christian people in different domestic and civil structures of society. The main foci of the Household Codes are upon husband/wife, parent/child, and master/slave relationships. The Codes apparently were developed to urge the new first century Christians to comply with the non-negotiable requirements of Roman Patria Potestas law, and to meet the needs for order within the fledgling churches. The two main passages that explain these relationships and duties are Ephesians and Colossians . An underlying Household Code is also reflected in 1 Timothy 2:1ff., 8ff.; 3:1ff., 8ff.; 5:17ff.; 6:1f.; and . Historically, proof texts from the New Testament Household Codes—from the first century to the present day—have been used to define a married Christian woman's role in relation to their husbands, and to disqualify women from primary ministry positions in Christian churches. Others more positively interpret the \"Haustafeln\" passages to be \"Peter and Paul’s radical Christian 'remix' that often passes unnoticed by modern readers\".\n\nThe German word \"Haustafel\" (\"house table\"), plural \"Haustafeln\", refers to a summary table of specific actions members of each domestic pair in a household are expected to perform. The term is said to have been coined by Martin Luther. A \"Haustafel\" is included in Luther's Small Catechism.\n\nAccording to certain studies, the public life of women in the time of Jesus was far more restricted than in Old Testament times. At the time the apostles were writing their letters concerning the \"Household Codes\" \"(Haustafeln)\", Roman law vested enormous power \"(Patria Potestas)\", lit. \"the rule of the fathers\") in the husband over his \"family\" \"(pater familias)\" which included his wife, children, agnatic descendants, slaves, and freedmen. Originally this power was absolute and included the power of life and death. He could acknowledge, banish, kill, or disown a child. A first-century jurist recounts the story of a man beating his wife to death because she had drunk some wine. His neighbors approved.\n\nChurch-state relations in the Roman Empire at the time were far from ideal.\n\nIn a Tübingen dissertation, James E. Crouch identifies as the earliest traceable form of the Christian Household Code, with further developments being found in Ephesians, the pastorals, and 1 Peter (as well as in early patristic literature: 1 Clement, Polycarp, Didache, and Barnabas). Crouch concludes that the early Christians found in Hellenistic Judaism a Code which they adapted and Christianized.\n\nThe concept of Household Codes was borrowed from Greek and Roman ethics, according to Suzanne Henderson. She notes that over the past century, scholars have identified a range of parallels between the Colossians Household Code and the writings of the Greco-Roman world. She writes that Martin Dibelius emphasized the influence of Stoic thought, while others have argued that the Code \"bears the influence of Hellenistic Jewish writers such as Philo and Josephus.\n\nStagg writes:\n\nVarious theologians have assorted opinions as to why the apostles wrote the Codes in the first place, and then why they were directed to a variety of recipients in several New Testament passages. Some believe that the intent of the Codes is not universal throughout the passages in which they appear. They believe it necessary to determine the specific function of a Code within a specific New Testament passage. Timothy Gombis posits that the most important factor in determining the purpose of the Code is to consider the literary context in which it appears.\n\nThough the suggested intents have some common threads, the following are what appear to be the predominant theories of the original intent of the Household Codes of Paul and Peter:\n\nMargaret MacDonald argues that the \"Haustafel\", particularly as it appears in Ephesians, was aimed at “reducing the tension between community members and outsiders.”\n\nThe early Christian Church, from its inception until the persecution under Nero in 64 AD, was tolerated by the Roman authorities who regarded it as merely another Jewish sect.\nThe relationship between the Church and Judaism was far more tempestuous as can be seen within the Acts of the Apostles. Prior to the burning of Rome, their persecution was from the Jews. The Christians were regarded by both the common people and the authorities as being separatists. The Christian lifestyle itself distanced it from that of the pagan world.\n\nDuring the first centuries, imperial Roman authorities considered Christian loyalty to Christ as disloyalty to their state. Toivo Pilli reports that the vast majority of Rome’s citizens and subjects experienced no burden of conscience even to public human sacrifices. The views of Christians tended to be seen quite differently since they added theological and ethical evaluation to all civil acts. When Christians opposed an imperial cult, they were deemed to have denied the emperor’s right to rule. Toivo Pilli writes how Pliny the Younger (61 AD – ca. 112 AD) explained his policy for dealing with Christians:\n\nPilli argues that Christians may have taken too literally the attitude of the first apostles: \"We must obey God rather than men\". He characterizes it as a \"curiously subversive\" text when compared with which opens with the injunction to \"Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established\".\n\nTheologian Timothy Gombis, in his scholarly article about the \"Haustafel\" in Ephesians, says that biblical scholars have typically treated it as a resource in the debate over the role of women in ministry and in the home. Without agreeing with that view, Gombis finds that most scholars regard the \"Haustafel\" to have an apologetic thrust in Ephesians. This majority view is that Paul was attempting to shield the new Christian movement from the suspicion that it might undermine contemporary social structures and ultimately threaten the stability of the Roman empire. Gombis cites Craig Keener as claiming that:\nSimilarly, Gombis cites David Balch's book about the Code in . Balch concludes that both Philo and Josephus used similar strategies when facing accusations that Jewish proselytism was ruining the social fabric of Roman society.\n\nCommentators have noted similarities between the New Testament Household Codes and Aristotle's discussion of families in Book One of Politics. The Aristotelian tradition specified that \"the first and least parts of a family are master and slave, husband and wife, father and children\"\nDavid Balch maintains that \"the Household Codes in Ephesians and Colossians clearly reflect the choice of an Aristotelian tradition of discourse on Household management\" and that the structure of the Ephesians passage \"is similar to Aristotle's discussion of the Household in Book One of \"Politics\": three pairs of social classes (husbands/wives, parents/children, masters/slaves), with the classes reciprocally related, and one class in each pair ruling, while the other is to be ruled.\" Others, however, suggest that the New Testament Household Codes are significantly different from their predecessors, in that they \"do not give absolute power to the men, but instead require a high degree of responsibility and mutual respect for all members of Christian families.\"\n\nNew Testament scholar Frank Stagg finds the basic tenets of the Code in Aristotle's discussion of the household in Book One of \"Politics\" as well as in Philo's \"Hypothetica 7.14\". He believes the several occurrences of the Code in the New Testament were intended to meet the needs for order within the churches and in the society of the day, essentially restraints to meet the threats of moral anarchy. Labeling it as \"libertinism\", Stagg envisions a scenario in which for some of Paul's hearers, particularly women and slaves, being freed from \"The Law\" was an invitation to reject all restraint.\n\nSimilarly, Crouch concludes that the Household Code was developed to counteract the threat of a form of \"enthusiasm\", such as that which appeared within some of the new Christian churches, that was threatening to undermine the basic structures of first century society. Crouch comments that women and slaves, in particular, sought to extend their new-found Christian freedom to relationships outside the church as well as within it.\n\nGalatians is considered by many scholars (including Stagg) to be one of Paul's earliest extant writings. In his own words, Paul says \"I was violently persecuting the church of God and was trying to destroy it\". On his way to Damascus he was confronted by the risen Jesus in a heavenly vision. According to the three separate accounts in Acts, Saul found himself on the ground, blinded by the intensity of a heavenly light. The risen Jesus gave Saul a commission to \"be a light to the Gentiles\". Called to be \"God’s great missionary to the Gentiles\", Paul also can claim what Bilezikian has termed \"an inaugural statement\" in the New Testament:\n\nBecause of Paul's exhortations throughout Galatians about freedom \"in Christ\", Galatians has been called “the Magna Carta of the Reformation” and Luther’s “Katie von Bora.” It is the book on which the Protestant Reformation was founded. F.F. Bruce writes that the purpose of this letter to the Galatian Christians was to refute the Judaizers’ false gospel—a gospel in which these Jewish Christians felt that circumcision was essential to salvation—and to remind the Galatians of the real basis of their salvation. It was the urgency of the situation which moved Paul to write even before the Jerusalem Council convened, for the churches of Galatia were at stake.\n\nStagg addresses the question of why so much of the Christian Household Code is found in what is generally recognized as the Pauline tradition. He points to a seeming irony that the Code in the New Testament is associated with the apostle who fought so openly and suffered such personal sacrifice for both freedom and equity for Jew and Greek, slave and free, male and female. Citing the complexities with which Paul had to deal after his historic proclamation in Galatians 3:28, Stagg concludes that the New Testament Household Code was not a simple situation in which one man \"single-handedly imposed male chauvinism on Gentile churches.\" He suggests that Paul's strong emphases stemmed from the \"perennial tension between freedom and order.\" Pointing out that freedom is ever at the risk of its abuse in terms of permissiveness, disorder, anarchy, or chaos, \"the twin threats of legalism and libertinism are ancient and recurrent\". Stagg notes that various New Testament books reflect \"this ongoing struggle for a proper relationship between law and grace, gift and demand, freedom and responsibility\". He conjectures that this situation must have become acute in the early churches, especially among women and slaves who had suffered most under the heaviest restraints. Therefore, they understandably would want to make the most of their new freedom \"in Christ\", and Stagg concludes that Paul found himself at the center of the battle.\n\nMichael Parsons takes the stance that the apostles' goal in developing the Christian Codes was to humanize relationships which, in the society of their own day, had become \"battlefields of contempt and antagonism.\" They did this by introducing into the \"new creation\" relationships that which had been lost: namely, human dignity, particularly among women and slaves. While acknowledging that the Household Codes did not originate with Christianity, he considers them being \"radically transformed by the Christian authors\".\n\nHe writes that the apostles used the contemporary form of the \"Haustafeln\" in their ethical instruction with \"creative and imaginative pastoral insight\". He does not think that the apostles, generally, are making social statements on prevailing customs. Instead, they are asking the question, \"What does it mean to be 'in Christ' in this situation?\" or \"What is the relationship between Christian freedom and this social institution?\" Parsons finds the implications to be profound. Even slaves are responsible; the possibility of living a Christian life depends solely on Christ’s grace―not circumstance.\n\nParsons maintains that the \"Haustafeln\" in Ephesians and Colossians are clearly written to those \"within\" the church, not those outside. Many believe that in the 2 Corinthians passage, the apostle Paul is speaking to situations of, at a minimum, potential disorder in the churches—to include the breaking of all social order. Therefore, he believes the purpose of the New Testament Household Codes likely was a call to order in an unruly church. But Parsons says whatever the overall purpose of each particular \"Haustafel\" might have been, it is certain that the paired relationships are explained by their relationship to Christ. \"Correspondingly new behavior is expected from Christian believers in each of those social situations. Each member of the three pairs is equal to the other 'in Christ', but they are not to presume on that new position and make it an excuse for behaving in any unchristian manner.\" There is no room in an \"in Christ\" relationship for feelings of antagonism, of superiority and inferiority, or of dehumanizing pride.\n\nJesuit author Felix Just also finds similarities between many other Greco-Roman moral writings and four of the later New Testament epistles (letters). The biblical Household Codes contain instructions for particular groups of people within Christian families or \"Households\" as to how they should treat other members of their Household. He writes that most people in the first-century Roman Empire took it for granted that a \"pater familias\" had absolute authority and control over \"his\" Household. Thus, the secular examples of such \"Household Codes\" usually just indicated how slaves, children, or wives should act toward their masters, fathers, or husbands, respectively. They quite rarely also tell the adult men how they should treat the slaves, children, or wives who are members of their household.\n\nAccording to author Felix Just, these New Testament texts do not give absolute power to the men. Instead, they require a high degree of responsibility and mutual respect from all members of Christian families, but \"do not show the full equality of the various members of a household\" compared to modern egalitarian views.\n\nTimothy Gombis argues that in the Letter to the Ephesians, Paul of Tarsus was laying out \"a manifesto for the New Humanity, painting in broad strokes a vision for how believers ought to conduct themselves in new creation communities\". He believes the \"status quo\" in at least the Ephesians' world was patterned after the character of what he calls the \"Old Humanity\"—\"selfish and self-destructive behavior\" that was oriented according to that of its rulers.\n\nIn , Gombis says Paul gives a comprehensive view of what relationships \"ought to look like\" in the New Humanity. He continues, \"The Haustafel, therefore, is a manifesto for the new creation people of God and does not merely have the modern notion of the nuclear family in view, though certainly it includes this. In short, it presents a comprehensive view of how relationships in what he terms \"the New Humanity\" \"should\" be structured.\nGombis writes:\n\nHe finally concludes that Paul is not simply being socially conservative by maintaining a place for hierarchicalism, nor is he merely trying to shield early Christian communities from imperial pressure. Rather, Paul's \"exhortations are radical in that they directly confront and subvert the social structures of [first century] contemporary society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24246315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24246315", "title": "Oratory of the Holy Face", "text": "Oratory of the Holy Face\n\nThe Oratory of the Holy Face is a Roman Catholic prayer oratory in Tours France. It is the site where devotions to the Holy Face of Jesus started in Tours by Venerable Leo Dupont based on messages reported by Sister Marie of St. Peter. It receives many Catholic pilgrims every year.\n\nThe site (now at 8 rue Bernard Palissy, Tours) was originally the drawing room of Venerable Leo Dupont where he continuously burned a vigil lamp before an image of the Holy Face of Jesus based on a painting of the Veil of Veronica. Dupont also used to invite people to pray in front of the image of the Holy Face of Jesus at the oratory. Dupont was inspired to pray to the Holy Face of Jesus based on the messages of the Carmelite nun Sister Marie of St. Peter.\n\nWhen Leo Dupont died in 1876, his house on Rue St. Etienne in Tours was purchased by the Archdiocese of Tours and turned into a prayer oratory. Archbishop Charles-Théodore Colet of Tours then approved of an order of priests called the Priests of the Holy Face to administer the chapel. The order was canonically erected in 1876 and Father Peter Javier, a friend of Dupont, was appointed as its director.\n\nThe oratory, and Dupont's prayers have been associated with a large number of reported cures.\nThe Dublin Review of 1885 reported that Mgr. Paul Guerin testified to having himself seen over 6000 certificates of cures wrought by virtue of the miraculous oil from the lamp in the oratory.\nPope Leo XIII who approved of the Holy Face devotions in 1885 also expressed a desire to establish a similar oratory in Rome.This was eventually opened in the Via Pietro Cavallini in 1891 and administered by the Priests, but was demolished in subsequent redevelopment. \n\nA number of well known Catholics have prayed at the oratory, e.g. Saints Louis and Blessed Zelie Martin, the parents of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux. Saint Therese was introduced to the devotion by her blood sister Celine and was later called \"Saint Therese of the Child Jesus and the Holy Face\". The poems and prayers she wrote helped to spread the devotion to the Holy Face of Jesus.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30860309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860309", "title": "Phillip H. Wiebe", "text": "Phillip H. Wiebe\n\nPhillip H. Wiebe (August 23, 1945 – October 26, 2018) was the Chair of the Department of Philosophy, Professor of Philosophy and former Dean of Arts and Religious Studies at Trinity Western University and its School of Graduate Studies. He was the author of \"God and Other Spirits\" and \"Visions of Jesus,\" both from Oxford University Press. His primary areas of research were in philosophy of religion and science, and epistemology.\n\nHe received a B.A. and M.A.. from the University of Manitoba, and a Ph.D. from the University of Adelaide.\n\nAnalytic philosophy; philosophy of religion, religious experience. \n"}
{"id": "183913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183913", "title": "Poul Martin Møller", "text": "Poul Martin Møller\n\nPoul Martin Møller (21 March 1794 – 13 March 1838) was a Danish academic, writer, and poet. During his lifetime, he gained renown in Denmark for his poetry. After his death, his posthumously published fiction and philosophical writings were well received. He also devoted several decades of study to classical languages and literature. While serving as a professor at the University of Copenhagen, he was a mentor to the philosopher Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nMøller was born near Vejle and raised on the island of Lolland, where his father served as a pastor. As a young man, his father tutored him in classical languages and literature. In 1812 he enrolled in the University of Copenhagen and studied theology. He also taught religion at a nearby school during this time. He graduated as the valedictorian of his class three and a half years later. In 1815 he published his first poem. After a stint as the tutor of two young counts, he returned to Copenhagen to study classical philology. After an unsuccessful proposal of marriage to his childhood sweetheart, he left Copenhagen to serve as the pastor of a ship during its two-year journey to China. While on the journey, he read the complete works of Cicero, wrote poetry, and wrote in his journal. After returning to Copenhagen, he began teaching Greek and writing poetry and fiction. He later successfully proposed to his first wife, with whom he had four sons. From 1826 to 1832, he taught at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania. Although he rose from assistant professor to full professor, he disliked living in Norway and returned to Denmark. Although eccentric, notoriously disheveled, and prone to becoming distracted during lessons, his good nature and pleasant disposition allowed him to become a popular teacher. In 1831, he was promoted to Professor Extraordinary at the University of Copenhagen, where he taught Hegel, classical literature, and moral philosophy. His first wife died in 1834, an event which left him shaken to the core and almost unable to function. Two years later, he married a friend of his late wife. He fathered a daughter with his second wife before succumbing to what was most likely liver cancer in March 1838.\n\nWhile working as a teacher he wrote extensively, working on poetry, a novel, and translating literature into Danish. He published translations of both contemporary and classical authors, including Lord Byron's “The Dream” and a portion of The Odyssey. Due to his habit of writing very slowly and later rewriting his work, he was never able to publish much of his work. The largest work that he published during his lifetime was a translation of the first six books of The Odyssey. He was most successful as a poet; his poem \"Joy Over Denmark\" became one of the most famous Danish poems. Though unfinished, Møller's novel \"Adventures of a Danish Student\" also gained lasting fame. It tells the comedic story of the romantic escapades of an eccentric student and his philosophical musings. Years later it became a favorite book of the Danish physicist and thinker Niels Bohr, who often quoted it during lectures. Shortly before his death, he charged his stepbrother Christian Winter and his colleague Fredrick Olsen with the task of publishing his writing posthumously. Although Møller's unfocused nature made this a difficult task, they were eventually able to publish nine volumes by 1850. After these volumes were published, Møller's reputation greatly improved among the Danish public. However, only a small portion of his philosophical writings were able to be published.\n\nMøller is perhaps best known for relationship with Søren Kierkegaard. They first met when Møller was teaching at the University of Copenhagen and they also lived in the same square in Copenhagen from 1836 to 1838. Møller was also well acquainted with Søren's brother Peter. Six years after Møller's death, Kierkegaard dedicated his work The Concept of Anxiety to him with remarks which were unusually personal for Kierkegaard. An unpublished draft of the dedication was even more emphatic, referring to Møller as the \"inspiration of my youth\" and \"the mighty trumpet of my awakening\".\n\nIn his journals, Kierkegaard notes that Møller provided him advice about the study of philosophy and communication. Part of Møller's influence came through his lectures on moral philosophy and the Greek and Roman classics that Kierkegaard attended while a student at the University of Copenhagen. In addition to classroom instructions, they also frequented Møller's favorite tea house. Kierkegaard adopted Møller's preferred method of writing, recording his thoughts in a short mixture of poetry and prose, into his own journals. Kierkegaard records that shortly before his death, Møller cautioned him regarding the polemical tone that he had adopted. Kierkegaard, however, viewed his tone as consistent with the New Testament writers.\n\nThere is also significant common ground between the philosophical views of Møller and Kierkegaard, in large part due to Møller's tutelage. After Møller's writings were published posthumously, Kierkegaard studied them in great detail. It is generally believed that Møller had a maieutic relationship with Kierkegaard, hence Kierkegaard's description of Møller as, “the confidant of Socrates”. They often debated the subjects of irony and humor, favorite topics of Kierkegaard's. Although Møller had studied the works of Hegel in great depth, he later became skeptical of Hegel's philosophy. He felt that Hegel's philosophy was limited because of its abstractness. In his attack on Hegelianism in \"Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments\", Kierkegaard cites Møller as an opponent of Hegel. Another similarity is the dislike both men felt toward philosophical systems that emphasized thought without feeling. Møller highly valued personal authenticity in philosophy and preferred the use of aphorisms over discursive arguments. Kierkegaard greatly appreciated the lighthearted satirical tone of Møller's as a departure from the serious scholarly tone of many of their contemporary philosophers.\n\nMøller's philosophy was also influenced by the theological work of the speculative theist philosopher Immanuel Hermann Fichte.\n\n"}
{"id": "3918551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3918551", "title": "Presentationism", "text": "Presentationism\n\nPresentationism (from Latin \"prae-esse\", \"praesens\", present) is a philosophical term used in various senses deriving from the general sense of the term \"presentation\".\n\nAccording to G. F. Stout (cf. \"Manual of Psychology\", i. 57), presentations are whatever constituents or our total experience at any moment directly determine the nature of the object as it is perceived or thought of at that moment. In Baldwin's \"Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology\", vol. ii., a presentation is an object in the special form under which it is cognized at any given moment of perceptual or ideational process. This, the widest definition of the term, due largely to Professor James Ward, thus includes both perceptual and ideational processes. The term has, indeed, been narrowed so as to include ideation, the correlative representation being utilized for ideal presentation, but in general the wider use is preferred.\n\nWhen the mind is cognizing an object, the object presents itself to the senses or to thought in one of a number of different forms (e.g. a picture is a work of art, a saleable commodity, a representation of a house, etc.). Presentation is thus essentially a cognitive process. Hence the most important use of the term presentationism, which is defined by Ward, in \"Mind\", N.S. (1893), ii. 58, as a doctrine the gist of which is that all the elements of psychical life are primarily and ultimately cognitive elements. This use takes precedence of two others: (1) that of Hamilton, for presentative as opposed to representative theories of knowledge, and (2) that of some later writers who took it as equivalent to phenomenon. Ward traces the doctrine in his sense to David Hume, to whom the mind is a kind of theatre in which perceptions appear and vanish continually (see Green and Grose edition of \"A Treatise of Human Nature\", p. 534). The main problem is as to whether psychic activity is presented or not. Ward holds that it is not presented or presentable save indirectly.\n"}
{"id": "47553395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47553395", "title": "Pyotr Kikin", "text": "Pyotr Kikin\n\nPyotr Andreyevich Kikin (Russian: Пётр Андреевич Кикин; 27 December 1775, Alatyr - 18 May 1834, Saint Petersburg?) was a Russian general and a Secretary of State under Tsar Alexander I.\n\nHe was one of twelve children born to Major Andrei Kikin (1747-1790) and his wife Maria Yermolova (1754-1819). His baptismal name was Bartholomei, but he never used it. As soon as he was old enough to take some responsibility, he was enrolled in the Guards and was a sergeant by the age of ten. He later studied in a boarding school at Moscow University and began his regular military career as an ensign in the Semyonovsky Regiment. From 1806 to 1812, he fought in the Russo-Turkish War, serving as an adjutant under General Michelson.\n\nHe was promoted to colonel and almost immediately became involved in the French invasion of Russia, serving in the First Western Army. He was wounded in the eye at the Battle of Valutino and was injured in a counter-attack at the Battle of Borodino, but was still able to fight at the Battle of Krasnoi. In 1813, he was awarded the Order of St. George of the Third Degree and the Order of St. Alexander Nevsky. From 1813 to 1814, he commanded a brigade under Field Marshal Wittgenstein and distinguished himself at the Battle of Lützen.\n\nAfter completing that campaign, he retired from military service. Until the invasion, he had been considered a Francophile, but his wartime experiences brought a new perspective. After reading the \"Discourse on Old and New Styles\" by Alexander Shishkov, he became a committed Slavophile; joining the \"Lovers of the Russian Word\" society. He also wrote a letter to Shishkov, suggesting a memorial to celebrate the victory over Napoleon, which is sometimes cited as the inspiration for the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, but this is far from certain.\n\nIn 1816, at the request of Tsar Alexander, Count Aleksey Arakcheyev convinced Kikin to reenter government service and he was appointed Secretary of State in charge of reviewing petitions to the Tsar. In this post, he was distinguished by his candor and firmness and was not afraid to disagree with the Tsar when he thought his decisions were unfair.\n\nIn 1820, together with and Alexander Ivanovich Dmitriev-Mamonov, he became a founding patron of the \"Society for the Encouragement of Artists\" and served as its first chairman.\n\nHe was also a farmer, making many improvements to an estate in Ryazan Governorate that he acquired from his wealthy mother-in-law, , and taking an active part in the affairs of the \"Moscow Society of Agriculture\". He published several essays on agricultural topics, attempted to improve the lives of farm laborers and experimented with new methods for tanning sheepskins.\n\nIn 1826, he resigned his position as Secretary of State and retired permanently from public life, although he became an active member of the Free Economic Society. His place of death is not known for certain, but he is buried at the Tikhvin Cemetery in Saint Petersburg. In the early 20th-century, his estate was restored by the former Minister of Agriculture, Alexey Sergeyevich Yermolov, who was also a Society member and a distant relative on his mother's side of the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "1974030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1974030", "title": "Ralph Strode", "text": "Ralph Strode\n\nRalph Strode (fl. 1350 – 1400), English schoolman, was probably a native of the West Midlands.\n\nHe was a fellow of Merton College, Oxford, before 1360, and famous as a teacher of logic and philosophy and a writer on educational subjects. He belonged, like Thomas Aquinas and Bonaventure, to that \"School of the Middle\" which mediated between realists and nominalists.\n\nBesides his \"Logica\", he wrote \"Consequentiae\", a treatise on the syllogism, and \"Obligationes\" or \"Scholastica militia\", a series of \"formal exercises in scholastic dialectics.\" He had some not unfriendly controversy with his colleague John Wyclif, against whom he defended the possession of wealth by the clergy, and held that in the Church abuses were better than disturbance. He also attacked Wyclif's doctrine of predestination. His positions are gathered from Wyclif's \"Responsiones ad Rodolphum Strodum\" (MS. 3926, Vienna Imperial Library).\n\nChaucer dedicates his poem \"Troilus and Criseyde\" to the contemporary poet John Gower and to Strode:\nModern English translation: \"O moral Gower, I permit this book to you, and to you, philosophical Strode, to correct, away from your benevolence and zealous goodness.\" It is quite possible that Troilus and Criseyde was dedicated to \"philosophical\" (in one of the manuscripts: \"logical\") Strode because the philosopher introduced Chaucer to some of the basic philosophical distinctions between late medieval nominalism and realism. Thus, Chaucer's literary nominalism in his longest complete poem may well be due to his acquaintance with Strode.\n\nAccording to the 15th-century \"Vetus catalogus\" of fellows of Merton, Strode himself was a \"poeta nobilis.\" John Leland and John Bale confirm this, but none of Strode's poems have survived. However, Professor Gollancz suggested that the \"Phantasma Radulphi\" attributed to Strode in the Vetus Catalogus could be the 14th-century elegiac poem \"The Pearl\", but this has found no support from later scholars and, on the basis of the poem's dialect, seems very unlikely.\n\nFrom 1375 to 1385 this Strode or another of the same name was Common Serjeant of London; he died in 1387.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4468889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4468889", "title": "Reality in Buddhism", "text": "Reality in Buddhism\n\nReality in Buddhism is called \"dharma\" (Sanskrit) or \"dhamma\" (Pali). This word, which is foundational to the conceptual frameworks of the Indian religions, refers in Buddhism to the system of natural laws which constitute the natural order of things. \"Dharma\" is therefore reality as-it-is (\"yatha-bhuta\"). The teaching of Gautama Buddha constituting as it does a method by which people can come out of their condition of suffering (\"dukkha\") involves developing an awareness of reality (\"see\" mindfulness). Buddhism thus seeks to address any disparity between a person's view of reality and the actual state of things. This is called developing Right or Correct View (Pali: \"samma ditthi\"). Seeing reality as-it-is thus an essential prerequisite to mental health and well-being according to Buddha's teaching.\n\nBuddhism addresses deeply philosophical questions regarding the nature of reality. One of the fundamental teachings is that all the constituent forms (\"sankharas\") that make up the universe are transient (Pali: \"anicca\"), arising and passing away, and therefore without concrete identity or ownership (\"atta\"). This lack of enduring ownership or identity (\"anatta\") of phenomena has important consequences for the possibility of liberation from the conditions which give rise to suffering. This is explained in the doctrine of interdependent origination.\n\nOne of the most discussed themes in Buddhism is that of the emptiness (\"sunyata\") of form (Pali: \"rūpa\"), an important corollary of the transient and conditioned nature of phenomena. Reality is seen, ultimately, in Buddhism as a form of 'projection', resulting from the fruition (\"vipaka\") of karmic seeds (\"sankharas\"). The precise nature of this 'illusion' that is the phenomenal universe is debated among different schools. For example;\n\n\nBuddhist sutras devote considerable space to the concept of reality, with each of two major doctrines—the Doctrine of Dependent Origination (\"pratitya-samutpada\") and the Doctrine of Cause and Effect (\"karma\" and \"vipaka\")—attempting to incorporate both the natural and the spiritual into its overall world view. Buddhist teachings continue to explore the nature of the world and our place in it.\n\nThe Buddha promoted experience over theorizing. According to Karel Werner, Experience is ... the path most elaborated in early Buddhism. The doctrine on the other hand was kept low. The Buddha avoided doctrinal formulations concerning the final reality as much as possible in order to prevent his followers from resting content with minor achievements on the path in which the absence of the final experience could be substituted by conceptual understanding of the doctrine or by religious faith, a situation which sometimes occurs, in both varieties, in the context of Hindu systems of doctrine.\n\nThe Mahayana developed those statements he did make into an extensive, diverse set of sometimes contrasting descriptions of reality \"as it really is.\" For example, in Tibetan Buddhism the Gelugpa draw a distinction between Svatantrika-Prasaṅgika in Madhyamika philosophy. This distinction was most prominently promulgated by Je Tsongkhapa (1357–1419 CE), when he argued that this distinction can be found explicitly and implicitly within in the works of Nagarjuna, Chandrakirti, and Buddhapalita.\n\nThe Theravada school teaches that there is no universal personal god. The world as we know it does not have its origin in a primordial being such as Brahman or the Abrahamic God. What we see is only a product of transitory factors of existence, which depend functionally upon each other. The Buddha is said to have said: \"The world exists because of causal actions, all things are produced by causal actions and all beings are governed and bound by causal actions. They are fixed like the rolling wheel of a cart, fixed by the pin of its axle shaft.\" (Sutta-Nipata 654)\n\nThe word 'illusion' is frequently associated with Buddhism and the nature of reality. Some interpretations of Buddhism teach that reality is a coin with two sides: the not-permanent characteristic or \"anicca\" and the \"not-self characteristic\" or \"anatta\", referred to as \"emptiness\" in some Mahayana schools. Dzogchen, as the non-dual culmination of the Ancient School (a school with a few million followers out of a few hundred million Buddhists) of Mantrayana, resolves atman and anatman into the Mindstream Doctrine of Tapihritsa. The Buddha Shakyamuni is said to have taught the variously understood and interpreted concept of \"not-self\" in the Anatta-lakkhana Sutta. In this sutta, he lists the characteristics that we often associate with who we are, and found that these characteristics, ultimately, are not who we are because they are subject to change without control. He further illustrates the changing nature of our feelings, perceptions, and consciousness.\n\nWe can look at the concepts of not-permanent and not-self in objective terms, for example by deconstructing the concept of an aggregated object such as a lotus and seeing that the flower is made up entirely of non-flower elements like soil, nutrients, photosynthetic energy, rain water and the effort of the entities that nourished and grew the flower. All of these factors, according to the Diamond Sutra, co-exist with each other to manifest what we call a 'flower'. In other words, there is no essence arisen from nothingness that is unique and personal to any being. In particular, there is neither a human soul that lives on beyond the death of the physical body nor one that is extinguished at death since, strictly speaking, there is nothing to extinguish. The relative reality (i.e., the illusory perceived reality) comes from our belief that we are separate from the rest of the things in the universe and, at times, at odds with the processes of nature and other beings. The ultimate or absolute reality, in some schools of Buddhist thought, shows that we are inter-connected with all things. The concept of non-discrimination expands on this by saying that, while a chair is different from a flower, they 'inter-are' because they are each made of non-flower and non-chair elements. Ultimately those elements are the same, so the distinction between chair and flower is one of quantity not of quality.\n\nThe Diamond Sutra, a Mahayana scripture, has many passages that use the formula: A is not A, therefore A is called A.\n\nIn Dzogchen, perceived reality is considered to be relatively unreal.\n\nAccording to contemporary teacher Chögyal Namkhai Norbu Rinpoche, all appearances perceived during the whole life of an individual, through all senses, including sounds, smells, tastes and tactile sensations in their totality, are like a big dream. It is claimed that, on careful examination, the dream of life and regular nightly dreams are not very different, and that in their essential nature there is no difference between them.\n\nThe non-essential difference between the dreaming state and ordinary waking experience is that the latter is more concrete and linked to attachment; the dreaming experience while sleeping is slightly detached.\n\nAlso according to this teaching, there is a correspondence between the states of sleep and dream and our experiences when we die. After experiencing the intermediate state of bardo, an individual comes out of it, a new karmic illusion is created and another existence begins. This is how transmigration happens.\n\nAccording to Dzogchen teachings, the energy of an individual is essentially without form and free from duality. However, karmic traces contained in the individual's mindstream give rise to two kinds of forms:\n\n\nWhat appears as a world of permanent external phenomena, is the energy of the individual him or herself. There is nothing completely external or separate from the individual. Everything that manifests in the individual's field of experience is a continuum. This is the 'Great Perfection' that is discovered in Dzogchen practice.\n\nIt is possible to do yogic practice such as Dream Yoga and Yoga Nidra whilst dreaming, sleeping and in other bardo states of trance. In this way the yogi can have a very strong experience and with this comes understanding of the dream-like nature of daily life. This is also very relevant to diminishing attachments, because they are based on strong beliefs that life's perceptions such as objects are real and as a consequence: important. If one really understands what Buddha Shakyamuni meant when he said that everything is (relatively) unreal, then one can diminish attachments and tensions.\n\nThe teacher advises that the realization that life is only a big dream can help us finally liberate ourselves from the chains of various emotions, different kinds of attachment and the chains of ego. Then we have the possibility of ultimately becoming enlightened.\n\nDifferent schools and traditions in Tibetan Buddhism give different explanations of what is called \"reality\".\n\nPrior to the period of the Tathagatagarbha Sutras, Mahayana metaphysics had been dominated by teachings on emptiness in the form of Madhyamaka philosophy. The language used by this approach is primarily negative, and the Tathagatagarbha genre of sutras can be seen as an attempt to state orthodox Buddhist teachings of dependent origination using positive language instead, to prevent people from being turned away from Buddhism by a false impression of nihilism. In these sutras the perfection of the wisdom of not-self is stated to be the true self; the ultimate goal of the path is then characterized using a range of positive language that had been used in Indian philosophy previously by essentialist philosophers, but which was now transmuted into a new Buddhist vocabulary to describe a being who has successfully completed the Buddhist path.\n\nContrasting with some forms of Buddhism, the Buddha's teaching on 'reality' in the Tathagatagarbha Mahayana scriptures - which the Buddha states constitute the ultimate manifestation of the Mahayana Dharma (other Mahayana sutras make similar claims about their own teachings) - insists that there truly \"is\" a sphere or realm of ultimate truth - not just a repetitious cycle of interconnected elements, each dependent on the others. That suffering-filled cycle of x-generating-y-and-y-generating-z-and-z-generating-a, etc., is \"Samsara\", the prison-house of the reincarnating non-self; whereas liberation from dependency, enforced rebirth and bondage is nirvana or reality / spiritual essence (\"tattva\" / \"dharmata\"). This sphere also bears the name \"Tathagatagarbha\" (Buddha matrix). It is the deathless realm where dependent origination holds no sway, where non-self is supplanted by the everlasting, sovereign (\"aishvarya\") self (atman) (as a trans-historical, unconditioned, ultimate, liberating, supra-worldly yet boundless and immanent awakened mind). Of this real truth, called nirvana - which, while salvationally infused into samsara, is not bound or imprisoned in it - the Buddha states in the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra:\n\n\"What is the Real (\"tattva\")? Knowledge of the true attributes of Nirvana; the Tathagata, the Dharma, the Sangha, and the attributes of space ... is the Real. What is knowledge of the attributes of Nirvana? The attributes of Nirvana are eightfold. What are these eight? Cessation [of ignorance and suffering]; loveliness/ wholesomeness; Truth; Reality; Eternity, Bliss, the Self [\"atman\"], and complete Purity: that is Nirvana.\"\n\nHe further comments: \" ... that which is endowed with the Eternal, Bliss, the Self, and Purity is stated to be the meaning of 'Real Truth' ... Moreover, the Real is the Tathagata [i.e., the Buddha]; the Tathagata is the Real ... The Tathagata is not conditioned and not tainted, but utterly blissful: this is the Real ...\".\n\nThus, in such doctrines, a very positive goal is envisioned, which is said to lie beyond the grasp of the five senses and the ordinary, restless mind, and only attainable through direct meditative perception and when all inner pollutants (twisted modes of view, and all moral contaminants) are purged, and the inherently deathless, spotless, radiantly shining mind of Buddha stands revealed. This is the realm of the \"Buddha-dhatu\" (popularly known as buddha nature) - inconceivable, beginning-less, endless, omniscient truth, the Dharmakaya (quintessential body-and-mind) of the Buddha. This reality is empty of all falsehood, impermanence, ignorance, afflictions, and pain, but filled with enduring happiness, purity, knowingness (\"jnana\"), and omni-radiant loving-kindness (\"maitri\").\n\nVipassanā (Pāli) or vipaśyanā (Sanskrit: विपश्यन) in the Buddhist tradition means insight into the true nature of reality. It is a practice of realizing our reality in order to see life as it is, in turn liberating ourselves like Buddha.\n\n"}
{"id": "3398483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3398483", "title": "Regift", "text": "Regift\n\nRegifting or regiving is the act of taking a gift that has been received and giving it to somebody else, sometimes in the guise of a new gift. One example of a formalization of this activity are the white elephant gift exchanges, in which items can be regifted from year to year.\n\nIn the USA, \"National Regifting Day\" is December 18. In Canada, eBay marketed \"National Re-gifting Week\" as December 26–30 (December 26 being Boxing Day, a time traditionally associated with gift-giving).\n\nRegiving differs from straightforward giving in that goods are not acquired specifically for donation. Typically, goods that have been received as a gift are offered to others, unbeknown to them that it was originally a gift to the person offering it. Often the motives are principally charitable but also includes giving items which are surplus to one's needs.\n\nHowever, re-gifting also refers the means of giving away unwanted gifts as a way of disposing them. Consider the \"fruitcake gift\" scenario. Someone receives a fruitcake but they don't like (or want) fruitcake but think someone else might. They give it away to someone who also may not like fruitcake either.\n\nRegiving differs from recycling in that recycling is most often associated with breaking components down and rebuilding into new products.\n\nThe term was popularized by an episode of the NBC sitcom \"Seinfeld\" (\"The Label Maker\"), although the practice pre-dates the term substantially. In the episode, the character Elaine calls Dr. Tim Whatley a \"regifter\" after he gives Jerry Seinfeld a label-maker that was originally given to Whatley by Elaine.\n\nAnother variant introduced in \"Seinfeld\" is degifting (see Indian giver), which refers to the act of demanding a gift back from the receiver.\n\nSeveral rules of etiquette are proposed in popular media regarding regifting; they include rewrapping the gift, not using the gift before regifting it, and not giving the gift back to the original gift-giver.\n\nRegifting has become a popular addition to many white elephant gift exchanges or yankee swap events. There are no rules that specifically prohibit or encourage the practice of regifting at these parties, but generally the host of the party suggests regifting if it is an option. However, if the host suggests a spending limit for the party, it is generally poor etiquette to regift in lieu of making a purchase. The online variations of these exchanges eliminate this situation through their online purchasing requirements.\n\nA variant of regifting was mentioned as one of Oprah's Favorite Things during the recession-themed 2008 episode.\n\nA Fairleigh Dickinson University PublicMind Poll in Dec. 2010 showed that regifting was \"commonplace.\" Burçak Ertimur, one of the investigators in the study, and a professor of marketing at FDU, said “The popularity of regifting is driven by many things for different people. For some, it’s thrift in difficult economic times, or it’s a way to get around annoyingly high expectations about gift-giving. It’s also awareness of, or guilt over, how much stuff goes into the landfill. But the main reason might be just the sheer volume of stuff we have,” she said.\n\nRegifting has recently become more acceptable when it was adopted by environmentally and budgetary conscious people that encourage the Green Gifting concept.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532873", "title": "Sacred tradition", "text": "Sacred tradition\n\nSacred Tradition, or Holy Tradition, is a theological term used in some Christian traditions, primarily those claiming apostolic succession such as the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Assyrian, and Anglican traditions, to refer to the foundation of the doctrinal and spiritual authority of the Christian Church and of the Bible.\n\nThe word \"tradition\" is taken from the Latin \"trado, tradere\", meaning \"to hand over, to deliver, to bequeath\". The teachings of Jesus Christ and the holy Apostles are preserved in writing in the Scriptures as well as word of mouth and are handed on. This perpetual handing on of the Tradition is called the Living Tradition; it is the faithful and constant transmission of the teachings of the Apostles from one generation to the next. That \"includes everything which contributes towards the sanctity of life and increase in faith of the People of God; and so the Church, in her teaching, life and worship [the Creeds, the Sacraments, the Magisterium, and the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass], perpetuates and hands on to all generations all that she herself is, all that she believes.\" The Deposit of Faith () refers to the entirety of Divine revelation. And there is, according to Roman Catholic theology, two sources of Revelation which constitute a single Deposit of Faith, meaning that the entirety of Divine Revelation and the Deposit of Faith is transmitted to successive generations in Sacred Scripture and Sacred Tradition (through the teaching authority and interpretation of the Church's Magisterium (which consists of the Church's bishops, in union with the Pope), typically proceeding synods and ecumenical councils).\n\nIn Orthodox theology, Holy Tradition is the inspired revelation of God and catholic teaching (Greek \"katholikos\", \"according to the whole\") of the Church, not an independent source of dogmatic authority to be regarded as a supplement to biblical revelation. Tradition is rather understood as the fullness of divine truth proclaimed in the scriptures, preserved by the apostolic bishops and expressed in the life of the Church through such things as the Divine Liturgy and the Holy Mysteries (Eucharist, baptism, marriage, etc.), the Creed and other doctrinal definitions of the Seven Ecumenical Councils, canonical Christian iconography, and the sanctified lives of godly men and women.\n\nAccording to the theological understanding of these Churches, sacred scripture is the written part of this larger tradition, recording (albeit sometimes through the work of individual authors) the community's experience of God or more specifically of Jesus Christ. Thus, the Bible must be interpreted within the context of sacred tradition and within the community of the church. That is in contrast to many Protestant traditions, which teach that the Bible alone is a sufficient basis for all Christian teaching (a position known as \"sola scriptura\").\n\nIn the English language, \"sacred tradition\" is more likely to be used in reference to Catholicism and \"holy tradition\" in reference to Eastern Orthodoxy, although the two terms are interchangeable in meaning.\n\nAmong the earliest examples of the theological appeal to tradition is the response of early 'orthodox' Christianity to Gnosticism, a movement that used some Christian Scripture as the basis for its teachings. Irenaeus of Lyons held that 'rule of faith' (\"regula fidei\") is preserved by a church through its historical continuity (of interpretation and teaching) with the Apostles. Tertullian argued that although interpretations founded on a reading of all Holy Scripture are not prone to error, tradition is the proper guide. Athanasius held that Arianism fell into its central error by not adhering to tradition.\n\nThe Second Vatican Council taught on tradition, scripture, and magisterium in \"Dei verbum\", n. 10:\n\nThus, all of the teachings of the Catholic Church come from either Tradition or Scripture, or from the magisterium interpreting Tradition and Scripture. These two sources, Tradition and Scripture, are viewed and treated as one source of Divine Revelation, which includes both the deeds of God and the words of God:\n\nThe magisterium has a role in deciding authoritatively which truths are a part of sacred tradition.\n\nHoly tradition for the Eastern Orthodox is the deposit of faith given by Jesus Christ to the apostles and passed on in the Church from one generation to the next without addition, alteration, or subtraction. Vladimir Lossky described tradition as \"the life of the Holy Spirit in the Church.\" It is dynamic in application yet unchanging in dogma. It is growing in expression yet is always the same in essence. The Eastern Orthodox churches do not regard tradition as something which accrues or expands over time. Rather, Orthodox believe tradition is the faith which Jesus Christ taught to the apostles and which they gave to their disciples without any development or deepening in understanding of the faith. It is merely that faith once delivered as understood within the context of lived history.\n\nThe Catholic Church, too, views tradition in much the same terms, as a passing down of that same apostolic faith, but, in a critical difference from the Eastern Orthodox position, Catholicism holds that the faith once delivered continues to deepen and mature over time through the action of the Holy Spirit in the history of the Church and in the understanding of that faith by Christians, all the while staying identical in essence and substance. Thus, the doctrines of the Trinity, the two natures of Christ, the divine motherhood, the Immaculate Conception, and the Assumption of Mary, along with other Catholic dogmas were always part of the orthodoxy of the Church, but were not precisely defined for many years, according to the need for clarification. Moreover, the understanding of these doctrines may continue to grow and be enriched in the future, not only through mystical experience, but through the practice of the sciences of philosophy and theology as guided by the Holy Spirit; exemplified, for instance, by the Scholastics such as Saint Thomas Aquinas, Duns Scotus, and William of Ockham in the High Middle Ages. A common metaphor used to explain this position is that of a seed: the acorn itself has neither branches nor leaves, yet once planted in fertile soil, it gradually grows into a tall oak; throughout its lifetime, however, it ever continues to be the same tree that was planted.\n\nAccording to some, prior to the sixth century, the Church's teachings on morality were incoherent. Catholic researchers such as Bernard Hoose and Mark Jordan have found that claims to a continuous teaching by the Church on matters of sexuality, life and death and crime and punishment are \"simply not true\". Not only was there \"inconsistency, contradiction and even incoherence\" in the Church's doctrines but the researchers' work has led them to conclude that \"the tradition itself is not the truth guarantor of any particular teaching.\". However others disagree and argue differently.\n\nProtestant denominations claim that the Bible alone is the source for Christian doctrine. This position does not deny that Jesus or the apostles preached in person, that their stories and teachings were transmitted orally during the early Christian era, or that truth exists outside of the Bible. For \"sola scriptura\" Christians today, however, these teachings are preserved in the Bible as the only inspired medium. Since in the opinion of \"sola scriptura\" Christians, other forms of tradition do not exist in a fixed form that remains constant in its transmission from one generation to the next and cannot be referenced or cited in its pure form, there is no way to verify which parts of the \"tradition\" are authentic and which are not.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32843806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32843806", "title": "Simiyya", "text": "Simiyya\n\nSīmiyā’ (from Arabic Simah سِمة which means sign Greek: σημεία, \"signs\") also rūḥāniyya, or ‘ilm al-ḥikma (, lit. \"spirituality\" and \"the dweomercraft of wisdom\", respectively) is a doctrine found commonly within Sufi-occult traditions that may be deduced upon the notion of \"linking the superior natures with the inferior...\", and broadly described as theurgy. This is confirmed further by al-Majrīṭī, who claims to reveal the techniques by which it is possible to convoke the \"rūḥāniyya\" of the celestial bodies. Theologian Abū Ḥāmid al-Ghazālī, the preacher and writer al-Kāshifī, and the Sufi Muḥyī al-Dīn Ibn al-'Arabī are amongst the most pre-eminent contributors. But al-Būnī, author of the two-volume \"Shams al-Ma‘ārif\", is as likely as not a considerable focal point for the craft. The 13th-century Hermetic thinker had transcribed a whole corpus of material (called the ‘Corpus Būnianum’), all of which was subsumed under the spiritual science, and a majority of his works are still used as prototypes for present-day magical practice and literature. The term \"sīmiyā’\" was the synonym of \"rūḥāniyya\", which meant 'spirituality'. This was to be contrasted with the more lesser conformed sorcery (\"siḥr\"), deemed forbidden in Islam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16979059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16979059", "title": "Social gravity", "text": "Social gravity\n\nSocial gravity was an application of Newtonian gravity to the system of commerce influence.\n\nFor instance, in \"The Administration of the Colonies\" (1764), Thomas Pownall (1722–1805) used the Newtonian concept of \"attraction\" to form the basis of his political and commercial theory of empire. Pownall's vision provided an important explanation of the mechanism by which colonial theorists understood the possibility of empire being \"transferred\" from one state to another. Pownall applied the Newtonian concept of gravity to his theory of empire, as evident in his suggestion that the \"laws of nature\" held the colonies to Great Britain in a manner \"analogous in all cases, by which the center of gravity in the solar system\" held the planets in their orbits. In making this analogy, Pownall's notion of 'social gravity' drew upon earlier visions of social cohesion, particularly ideas of sociability in eighteenth-century Britain. These ideas, in turn, were often predicated upon Stoic notions of cosmopolitanism, expressed by the key term oikeiôsis, in order to stress the \"moral\" imperative for like-minded humans to forge bonds dedicated to the common good.\n"}
{"id": "565975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565975", "title": "Society for Philosophical Inquiry", "text": "Society for Philosophical Inquiry\n\nThe Society for Philosophical Inquiry (SPI) is a non-profit organization devoted to propagating a version of Socratic inquiry through the establishment of regular meetings. Based on their different settings, they are called Socrates Café, Philosophers' Club, these meetings take place all over the world. The purpose of these meetings is to facilitate discussion of philosophy.\n\nChristopher and Cecilia Phillips co-founded SPI in 1998. The Society is funded through a grant from the Whitman Institute in San Francisco. \n\nSPI is a grassroots nonprofit organization devoted to supporting philosophical inquirers of all ages and walks of life as they become more empathetic and autonomous thinkers who take active part in creating a more deliberative democracy. Its members strive to form and facilitate \"democratic communities of philosophical inquiry\". Their gatherings - which, depending on the setting, occasion and purpose, have such names as Socrates Café, Philosophers’ Club, bring together people from a wide array of walks of life and experiences. They take place in venues like parks, coffee houses, hospices, senior centers, nursing homes, prisons, plazas, bookstores, homeless shelters, community centers, libraries, schools, and other public spaces.\n\nBoard members include: Matthew Lipman, Robert Coles, Roy J. Nirschel, president of Roger Williams University, and Jacob Needleman, professor of philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41114236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41114236", "title": "Sottorealism", "text": "Sottorealism\n\nThe term Sottorealism (\"sotto\" Italian for “beneath” or “under” and the Latin \"realis\" “concerning the thing;” \"res\" “thing, object”) describes an approach in contemporary aesthetics. It has been developed with respect to painting, but also applies to photography\n\nThe American art historian Carol Strickland (born 1946) coined the term Sottorealism in an essay titled “Detour as a Route to Unity and Order” (2006). In the essay, she was concerned with the art work of the German-Greek painter Aris Kalaizis. While approaching his work, Strickland discovered a hermeneutical void between realism and surrealism, which she filled with the neologism.\n\nInstead of painting a surreal universe, the Sottorealist is interested in crawling beneath the surface of reality. While the world of the dream isn’t a creative act, and while no photographic device is able to fully mediate that which is beyond reality, the Sottorealist acknowledges that which is given in reality. In doing so, the Sottorealist, however, also acknowledges that unseen forces are active in our perception of reality, such as memory or cultural frameworks or metaphysical. By making these numinous realities present in his work, he creates a convergence of the seen and unseen.\n\nThe idea is to go beyond the appearance of things and to uncover substructures that are beyond the empirical reality. Sottorealists approach these second or third orders of reality by constructing elaborate models. These models could be viewed as experiments that are necessary in order to sound out the full scope of that which is part of reality, even though it is not an apparent and visible part of it.\n\nBuilding models of that which to be painted, is an essential part in the process. These models can be erected in public spaces or in an atelier. They offer an opportunity to probe that which the artist feels to have unearthed from beneath the surface of reality. These models can also range in complexity, be very elaborate or very simple. Photographic images taken while this model is set up, aid the artist during the final realization of the painting. \nAris Kalaizis was the first painter who has made use of this concept, when preparing his paintings.\n\nProminent Sottorealists are the Canadian photographer Jeff Wall, the Finnish photographer Ilkka Halso, as well as the American Gregory Crewdson. The German photographer Thomas Demand is also thought to be a Sottorealist.\n\nIn painting, this approach is unique and is an important feature in the work of Aris Kalaizis.\n\n"}
{"id": "4063057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4063057", "title": "Temple of Confucius", "text": "Temple of Confucius\n\nA temple of Confucius or Confucian temple is a temple for the veneration of Confucius and the sages and philosophers of Confucianism in Chinese folk religion and other East Asian religions. They were formerly the site of the administration of the imperial examination in China and Vietnam and often housed schools and other studying facilities.\n\nThe temples are known by a variety of names throughout East Asia. The two greatest temples in Qufu and Beijing are now known in Chinese as (\"Kǒngmiào\"). In Shanghai, Vietnam, Korea, and Indonesia, they are known as ; ) or (). In Southern China, however, temples by that name generally honor Wenchang Wang, a separate deity associated with the scholar Zhang Yazi. In Japan, they are usually known as \"Temples\" or or \"seidō\", respectively).\n\nThe development of state temples devoted to the cult of Confucius was an outcome of his gradual canonisation. In 195 BC, Han Gao Zu, founder of the Han Dynasty (r. 206–195 BC), offered a sacrifice to the spirit of Confucius at his tomb in Qufu. Sacrifices to the spirit of Confucius and that of Yan Hui, his most prominent disciple, began in the Imperial University (Biyong) as early as 241.\n\nIn 454, the Liu Song dynasty of southern China built a prominent state Confucian temple. In 489, the Northern Wei constructed a Confucian temple in the capital, the first outside of Qufu in the north. In 630, the Tang Dynasty decreed that schools in all provinces and counties should have a Confucian temple, as a result of which temples spread throughout China. Well-known Confucian shrines include the Confucian Temple in Jianshui, the Confucian Temple in Xi'an (now the Forest of Steles), the Fuzi Miao in Nanjing, and the Confucian Temple in Beijing, first built in 1302. The Confucian Temple of old Tianjin is located on Dongmennei Dajie, a short distance west of Traditional Culture Street (Gu Wenhua Jie). Occupying 32 acres of land, The Confucian Temple is the largest extant traditional architectural complex in Tianjin.\n\nThe largest and oldest Temple of Confucius is found in Confucius' hometown, present-day Qufu in Shandong Province. It was established in 479 BC, one year after Confucius's death, at the order of the Duke Ai of the State of Lu, who commanded that the Confucian residence should be used to worship and offer sacrifice to Confucius. The temple was expanded repeatedly over a period of more than 2,000 years until it became the huge complex currently standing. There is another temple in Quzhou.\nIn addition to Confucian temples associated with the state cult of Confucius, there were also ancestral temples belonging to the Kong lineage, buildings commemorating Confucius's deeds throughout China, and private temples within academies.\n\nBeginning in the Tang dynasty (618–907), Confucian temples were built in prefectural and county schools throughout the empire, either to the front of or on one side of the school. The front gate of the temple is called the Lingxing Gate (). Inside there are normally three courtyards, although sometimes there are only two. However, the complex in Qufu has nine courtyards containing scores of steles commemorating visits by an emperor or imperial grants of noble titles upon descendants of Confucius. The main building, situated in the inner courtyard with entry via the \"Dachengmen\" (), is called the \"Dachengdian\" (), variously translated as \"Hall of Great Achievement\", \"Hall of Great Completion\", or \"Hall of Great Perfection\". In imperial China, this hall housed the Spirit Tablets () of Confucius and those of other important sages () and worthies (). In front of the \"Dachengdian\" in Qufu is the Apricot Pavilion or \"Xingtan\" (). Another important building behind the main building is the Shrine of Adoring the Sage (\"Chongshengci\" ), which honoured the ancestors of Confucius and the fathers of the Four Correlates and Twelve Philosophers.\nUnlike Daoist or Buddhist temples, Confucian temples do not normally have images. In the early years of the temple in Qufu, it appears that the spirits of Confucius and his disciples were represented with wall paintings and clay or wooden statues. Official temples also contained images of Confucius himself. However, there was opposition to this practice, which was seen as imitative of Buddhist temples. It was also argued that the point of the imperial temples was to honour Confucius's teachings, not the man himself.\n\nThe lack of unity in likenesses in statues of Confucius first led Emperor Taizu of the Ming dynasty to decree that all new Confucian temples should contain only spirit tablets and no images. In 1530, it was decided that all existing images of Confucius should be replaced with spirit tablets in imperial temples in the capital and other bureaucratic locations; nevertheless many modern Confucian temples do feature statues. Statues also remained in temples operated by Confucius's family descendants, such as that in Qufu.\n\nThe state cult of Confucius centred upon offering sacrifices to Confucius's spirit in the Confucian temple.\nA dance known as the Eight-Row Dance (八佾舞), consisting of eight columns of eight dancers each, was also performed. Originally this was a Six-Row Dance, as performed for the lesser aristocracy, but in 1477 Confucius was allowed the imperial honour of the eight-row dance since he posthumously received the title of king. Musicians who accompanied this dance played a form of music termed \"yayue\".\n\nIn addition to worshipping Confucius, Confucian temples also honour the \"Four Correlates\", the \"Twelve Philosophers\", and other disciples and Confucian scholars through history. The composition and number of figures worshipped changed and grew through time. Since temples were a statement of Confucian orthodoxy, the issue of which Confucians to enshrine was a controversial one.\n\nBy the Republican period (20th century), there were a total of 162 figures worshipped. The Four Correlates are Yan Hui, Zeng Shen, Kong Ji (Zisi), and Mencius. The Twelve Philosophers are Min Sun (Ziqian), Ran Geng (Boniu), Ran Yong (Zhonggong), Zai Yu (Ziwo), Zi-gong, Ran You, Zi-Lu, Zi-You, Zi-Xia, Zi-Zhang, You Ruo, and Zhu Xi. A list of disciples of Confucius and their place in the Confucian temple can be found at Disciples of Confucius.\n\nWith the spread of Confucian learning throughout East Asia, Confucian temples were also built in Vietnam, Korea, and Japan. Starting in the 18th century, some were even built in Europe and the Americas. At their height, there are estimated to have been over 3,000 Confucian temples in existence.\n\nThe bill allowing for the building of the very first Confucian Temple in Hong Kong, proposed by the Confucian Academy, passed in September 2013. The location of the temple was decided to be near the famous Taoist temple, Wong Tai Sin Temple, in Wong Tai Sin District.\n\nThe first Confucian temple in Taiwan to be constructed was the Taiwan Confucian Temple, which was built during the period of Tungning Kingdom in 1665 in Tainan. A more recent one, the Taipei Confucius Temple, was built on Wenwu Street in Taipei in 1879, torn down by Japanese in 1907 to make place for the Taipei First Girls' High School, and re-erected on Dalong Street from 1925 to 1939. The new temple was designed by Wang Yi-Shun, who also oversaw its construction. The design is an example of typical Fujian temple style. Every year on September the 28th, the birthday of Confucius, city authorities hold the Shidian () Ceremony here. In addition, there is a Confucian temple located in Zuoying District of Kaohsiung that was completed in 1974 in the Northern Song architectural style. Other Confucian Temples are found in Chiayi City, Taipei, Taichung and Changhua County.\n\nA Confucian Temple in Vietnam is called Văn Miếu. The earliest recorded Văn Miếu in Vietnam is the Văn Miếu, Hanoi, established in 1070. After 1397, with the construction of schools throughout Vietnam under the Tran, Confucian temples began to spread throughout the country. Another renowned Vietnamese Confucian temple is the Văn Miếu, Hưng Yên, located in Hưng Yên City. Well-known Confucian temples were built in Huế, Tam Kỳ, Hội An, Hưng Yên, Hải Dương, Biên Hòa, Vĩnh Long and Bắc Ninh.\n\nOutside China, the largest number of Confucian temples is found in Korea. Temples were first built during the Goryeo period (918–1392). In the time of Yi Seonggye (r. 1392–1398), it was decreed that Confucian temples should be built in all areas of the nation. Although Chinese models were followed, variations in layout and construction were common, such as the building of schools in front of temples. Korea also added its own scholars (the eighteen scholars of the East) to the Confucian pantheon.\n\nHistorically, Korea had a total of 362 temples devoted to Confucianism. After World War II and the division of the country, those in the North were converted to other uses. However, many of the 232 temples in the South continued their activities (see Munmyo). In addition to temples devoted to Confucianism the Republic of Korea also has twelve Confucian family temples, two temples in private schools, and three libraries.\n\n were also widely built in Japan, often in conjunction with Confucian schools. The most famous is the Yushima Seido, built in 1630 during the Edo period as a private school connected with the Neo-Confucianist scholar Hayashi Razan. Originally built in Shinobi-ga-oka in Ueno, it was later moved to Yushima (Ochanomizu) by the Tokugawa Shogunate and reopened as a school of Confucianism to spread the teachings of the Hayashi school.\n\nOther well-known Confucian temples are found in Nagasaki, Bizen, Okayama prefecture; Taku, Saga prefecture; and Naha, Okinawa prefecture.\n\nConfucian temples are also found in Indonesia, where they are often known as \"Churches of Confucius\" as Confucianism is a recognised religion in that country. In Chinese, these establishments are known as \"litang\" () or \"halls of worship\". The largest and oldest is the Boen Bio in Surabaya, originally built in the city's Chinatown in 1883 and moved to a new site in 1907. There are reportedly more than 100 Confucianist halls of worship throughout Indonesia.\n\nThe first Confucian temple in Malaysia was built within a primary school known as Chung Hwa Confucian School (which has since split into SJK(C) Chung Hwa Confucian A, B and SMJK Chung Hwa Confucian) in Penang, in the early 20th Century. The building of the school was initiated by the Qing dynasty ambassador to the British Straits Settlement at that time. In those days parents in Penang brought their children to this temple for prayer before they began their schooling. The children prayed for excellence in their studies.\n\nThere are also 2 Confucian schools in Kuala Lumpur, namely SMJK Confucian and Confucian Private School, and a Confucian school in Malacca where ceremonies in honour of Confucius are held annually.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48625703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48625703", "title": "Tongcheng school", "text": "Tongcheng school\n\nThe Tongcheng School was a Chinese literary school that flourished during the Qing dynasty advocating the philosophy of the Neo-Confucian values that rose to prominence during the Song dynasty.\n\nThe Tongcheng school of literary prose was founded by Fang Bao, Liu Dakui, and Yao Nai who were natives of Tongcheng Country, Anhui Province in the early years of the Qing dynasty.\n\nFang Bao initiated the genre using what he had learned from his teacher Gui Youguang, creating the concept of \"Yi Fa\". \"Yi\" refers to the central ideas or arguments within an article and \"Fa\" to the various literary forms and artistry that are present in the theory of the Tongcheng school. The style of writing was more stoic in nature in that it stressed the need to present the purpose of the article in a concise manner without excessive pomp or romance in the writing style.\n\nThe school rose to prominence under the Kangxi Emperor and prospered throughout the Qing period. Significant originating writings of the school include Fang Bao's \"Random Notes from Prison\" and Yao Nai's \"Ascent to Mount Tai\".\n\nSignificant authors of the Tongcheng style include Fang Bao's students: Shen Tong, Wang Youpu, Shen Tingfang, Wang Zhaofu, Chen Dashou and Li Xueyu; Liu Dakui's students: Wang Zhuo, Wu Ding and Cheng Jinfang; and Yao Nai's students: Guan Tong, Men Cengliang, Fang Dongshu and Yao Ying. Other notable adherents to the Tongcheng school include Zhu Qi, Long Qirui, Chen Xueshou, Wu Jiabin, Deng Xianhe, Sun Dingchen, Lu Yitong and Shao Yichen.\n"}
{"id": "43382131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43382131", "title": "Vidya (Knowledge)", "text": "Vidya (Knowledge)\n\nThe Sanskrit word, Vidya, figures prominently in all texts pertaining to Indian philosophy - to mean science, learning, knowledge and scholarship; most importantly, it refers to valid knowledge which cannot be contradicted and true knowledge which is the knowledge of the Self intuitively gained. \"Vidya\" is not mere intellectual knowledge, for the Vedas demand understanding.\n\nVidya or \"vidyā\" (Sanskrit: विद्या) primarily means science, learning, philosophy, knowledge, scholarship, any knowledge whether true or false. Its root is \"Vid\" (Sanskrit: विद्) which means - to reason upon, knower, finding, knowing, acquiring or understanding.\n\nIn Hindu philosophy, \" Vidyā\" refers to the knowledge of the soul or spiritual knowledge; it refers to the study of the six schools of Hindu philosophy – Nyaya, Yoga, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Purvamimamsa and Uttaramimamsa. The process of gaining the knowledge of the Atman cannot commence unless one has explored the \"Prānavidya\" or \"Agnividya\" to the full in all its numerous phase; through \"vidyā\" or \" upasana \" to \"jnana \" was always the eternal order indicated by the Upanishads. \"Jnāna\" dawns after the completion and perfection of the being through the \"vidyās\"; then, one crosses over beyond birth and death having already destroyed the bonds of death.\n\nDuring the Vedic period, \"Vidyādāna\" or the gift for the sake of education was considered to be the best of gifts, possessing a higher religious efficacy than even the gift of land. \"Vidyā\" comes from the root \"Vid\" ('to know'), it therefore means knowledge, science, learning, lore, scholarship and philosophy. There are basically four \"Vidyas\" – 1) \"Trayi\" (triple) which is the study of the Vedas and their auxiliary texts, 2) \"Anviksiki\" which is logic and metaphysics, 3) \"Dandaniti\" which is the science of government, and 4) \"Varum\", the practical arts such as agriculture, commerce, medicine etc. \"Vidyā\" gives insight, in the spiritual sphere it leads to salvation, in the mundane sphere it leads to progress and prosperity. \"Vidyā\" illuminates the mind and shatters illusions, increases intelligence, power and efficiency; develops the intellect and makes it more re-fined; it effects a complete transformation as the root of all happiness and as the source of illumination and power. The word, \"Vidyā\", does not occur in the Rig Veda, it occurs in the Atharvaveda and in the Brahmana portions of the Yajurveda and in the Upanishads.\n\nIn Hinduism, Goddesses are personifications of the deepest level of power and energy. The concept of Shakti, in its most abstract terms, relates to the energetic principle of Ultimate Reality, the dynamic aspect of the divine. This concept surfaces in the Kena Upanishad as Goddess Umā bestowing \"Brahma-vidya\" on Indra; when linked with \"shakti\" and \"maya\", she embodies the power of illusion (\"maya\"), encompassing ignorance (\"avidya\") and knowledge (\"vidyā\") and thereby presented with a dual personality. According to the Saktas, Māyā is basically a positive, creative, magical energy of the Goddess that brings forth the universe. The ten \"Mahāvidyās\" are bestowers or personifications of transcendent and liberating religious knowledge; the term \"Vidyā\" in this context refers to power, essence of reality and the \"mantras\". The gentle and motherly forms of Goddess Sri Vidyā are 'right-handed'. When the awareness of the 'exterior' (Shiva) combined with the \"I\" encompasses the entire space as \"I\" it is called \"sada-siva-tattva\". When later, discarding the abstraction of the Self and the exterior, clear identification with the insentient space takes place, it is called \"isvara-tattva\"; the investigation of these two last steps is pure \"vidyā\" (knowledge). \"Māyā\", which has been identified with \"Prakrti\" in the Shvetashvatara Upanishad represents its three \"gunas\"; also identified with \"avidyā\", which term primarily means the dark abyss of non-being and secondarily the mysterious darkness of the unmanifest state, \"Māyā\" binds through \"avidyā\" and releases through \"vidyā\" .\n\nIn Mahayana texts, the female divinities are designated grammatically feminine terms \"Dhārāni\" and \"Vidyā\". \"Dharani\" refers to mantras, the sounds that carry the essence or energy of a deity, which enable contact with the goddess on her plane of reality because the mantras invoke all deities. \"Vidyā\" is also synonymous with mantra and refers to the mantric invocation of female deities. In Tibet, the word, \"rigpa\" , meaning \"vidyā\", refers to the non-dualistic awareness or intrinsic awareness. In Theravada Buddhism, \"vidyā\" means 'non-dual awareness' of three marks of existence.\n\n\"Agni Vidyā\" or the science of Fire is said to be the greatest discovery of the ancient Indians who gained direct experience of divine fire through continuous research, contemplation, observation and experimentation; their experience led them to discover ways of using this knowledge to heal and nurture the outer and the inner worlds. To them fire is sacred, and because of the pervasive nature of fire all things are sacred. Body and mind which are extensions of the fire that the soul spontaneously emits are also sacred. Within the body the most significant centres of fire are more subtle than those of the sense organs. They are called the \"chakras\" which are seven fields of sacred fire. The understanding of the role of fire without and within gives proper self-understanding which understanding is gained through yogic practices. The performance of yajnas is the \"karma-kānda\" aspect of \"agni vidyā\". All rituals follow set rules and conditions. The main function of the fire ritual is to make an offering to nature’s finest forces and divinities that fill the space of inner consciousness; fire carries oblations to these forces and divinities. The fire has seven tongues all having unique qualities. The gods, goddesses, divinities and nature’s forces are grouped in seven main categories which match with the qualities of the seven tongues of fire.\n\n\"Atmaikatva\" or the absolute oneness of the self is the theme of entire Advaita Vedanta which distinguishes six \"pramanas\" or means of valid knowledge, but this \"vidyā\" or knowledge of Brahman is \"guhahita\", \"gahavareshta\" i.e. set in the secret place and hidden in its depth, unattainable except through \"adhyātma-yoga\", the meditation centering upon the nature of the self. Vedanta literature is only preparatory to it, it dispels ignorance and makes the mind receptive but does not reveal the truth therefore it is an indirect means of knowledge. The oneness of the self, which is self-established and self-shining, is called \"vidyā\" in cosmic reference which reveals the true nature of Brahman, the self-shining pure consciousness which is not a \"visaya\" ('object matter or content') but the one subject, transcendent of all conventional subjects and objects. The Self or the Atman is to be sought, the Self is to be enquired into, known and understood.\n\nThe sage of the Mundaka Upanishad(Verse I.1.4), more in the context of the ritualistic than of epistemological concerns, states that there are two kinds of knowledge (\"vidyā\") to be attained, the higher (\"para\") and the lower (\"apara\"). \"Para vidyā\", the higher knowledge, is knowledge of the Absolute (Brahman, Atman); \"Apara\", the lower knowledge, is knowledge of the world – of objects, events, means, ends, virtues and vices. \"Para vidyā\" has Reality as its content; \"Apara vidyā\", the phenomenal world. According to Advaita Vedanta, \"Para vidyā\", by the nature of its content, possesses a unique quality of ultimacy that annuls any supposed ultimacy that might be attached to any other or form of knowledge, and is intuitively gained as self-certifying. Once Brahman is realized all other modes of knowledge are seen to be touched by \"avidyā\", the root of ignorance. In this context, \"Vidyā\" means true knowledge.\nHowever, it is argued that the Advaita Vedanta interpretation does not answer the final question: what is the reality or truth-value of \"avidyā\" or what is the substratum that is the basis or cause of \"avidyā\"?\n\nThe Upanishads teach us that the knowledge of difference is \"avidyā\" or ignorance, and the knowledge of identity is true knowledge or \"vidyā\" or valid knowledge, which leads to life eternal. For the Cārvākas, perception is the only means of valid knowledge (\"pramana\"). Vadi Deva Suri of the Jaina school defines valid knowledge as determinate cognition which apprehends itself and an object and which is capable of prompting activity which attains a desirable object or rejects an undesirable object; the result of valid knowledge is cessation of ignorance. Vaisheshikas recognized four kinds of valid knowledge – Perception, Inference, Recollection and Intuition. The Mimamsa schools introduced the concept of intrinsic validity of knowledge (\"svatahpramanya\") and extrinsic validity of knowledge (\"parastah-apramana\") but agreed that the validity of knowledge cannot be determined by the knowledge of any special excellence in its cause or the knowledge of its harmony with the real nature of its object or the knowledge of a fruitful action. Sankara accepted perception, inference, scriptural testimony, comparison, presumption and non-apprehension as the six sources of knowledge and concluded that the knowledge which corresponds with the real nature of its object is valid. The Atman is the reality in the empirical self as the ever present foundational subject-objectless universal consciousness which sustains the empirical self.\n\nIn \"upāsanā\" the movement starts from the outer extremities and gradually penetrates into the inmost recesses of the soul, and the whole investigation is conducted in two spheres, in the subject as well as in the object, in the individual as well as in the world, in the \"aham\" as also in the \" idam \", in the \"adhyātma\" and also in \"adhidaiva\" spheres and conducted synthetically as well as analytically, through \"apti\" as well as \"samrddhi\", which the Bhagavad Gita calls \" yoga \" and \" vibhooti \". The \"vidyās\" do not rest content in knowing the reality simply as a whole but proceed further to comprehend it in all its infinite details too. The higher includes the lower grades and adds something more to it and never rejects it; the lower has its fulfilment in the higher and finds its consummation there but never faces extinction. All forms of contemplation have only one aim: to lead to the Supreme Knowledge and hence they are termed as \"vidyās\"; through \"vidyā\", which is \"amrta\", one attains immortality (Shvetashvatara Upanishad Verse V.1). \"Dahara Vidyā\", \"Udgitha Vidyā\" and \"Madhu Vidyā\" are the synthetic way whereas the analytic way is signified by the Sleeping man of the \"Garga-Ajātsatru\" episode and by the Five Sheaths, which ways show that the world and the individual spring from the same eternal source.\n"}
{"id": "2215589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2215589", "title": "Vincent Miceli", "text": "Vincent Miceli\n\nVincent Peter Miceli, S.J. (1915 – June 2, 1991) was a Catholic priest, theologian, and philosopher.\n\nMiceli was born in New York City, USA, in 1915, the ninth of ten children of Italian immigrants.While attending Cathedral High School and maintaining a 95.5 average he worked six days a week from 3-10pm delivering books. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1936 to pursue his studies and was ordained a priest in 1949. Fr Miceli received his STL from St Louis University in 1950 and his PhD from Fordham University in 1961. His doctoral dissertation was on the French Catholic existentialist, Gabriel Marcel.\n\nFather Miceli is the author of several books: \"Ascent to Being\" (1961), \"The Gods of Atheism\" (1971), \"The Antichrist\" (1981), \"Women Priests and Other Fantasies\" (1985), \"The Roots of Violence\" (1989), and \"Rendezvous with God\" (1991).\n\nFather Miceli also made appearances on the \"Good Morning America\" television show on ABC and the \"Crossfire\" show on CNN.\n\nFather Miceli taught theology and philosophy at several universities including Gregorian University in Rome, Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama, Loyola University New Orleans, and Christendom College in Front Royal, Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "30227235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30227235", "title": "Yuri Savenko", "text": "Yuri Savenko\n\nYuri Sergeevich Savenko () is a Russian psychiatrist, the president since 1989 of the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia. He is also a member of the Council of Experts of the Russian Commissioner for Human Rights in the Russian Federation. He holds M.D. qualification and is editor-in-chief of and a regular contributor to the \"Nezavisimiy Psikhiatricheskiy Zhurnal\", which has been published since 1991. He had been working as editorial consultant of the \"Moskovskiy Psikhoterapevticheskiy Zhurnal\" (“Moscow Journal for Psychotherapy”) for many years before he left this position in 2008.\n\nBefore defending his doctoral thesis, Savenko was expelled from the Institute of Psychiatry in 1974.\n\nHis main works concern anxious psychotic syndromes, psychotic disorders problems, subject of psychiatry, and the classification of mental disorders.\n\nYuri Savenko took part in a 'wrongful confinement' lawsuit filed in the European Court of Human Rights in 2003. When writing about this case, Savenko charged the Serbsky Institute with having a \"pernicious effect on Russian medicine\" and warned that the leadership of the psychiatric community \"is now completely under the shadow of the state.\"\n\nOn 28 May 2009, Yuri Savenko wrote to the President of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev an open letter, in which Savenko asked Medvedev to submit to the State Duma a draft law prepared by the Independent Psychiatric Association of Russia to address a sharp drop in the level of forensic psychiatric examinations, which Savenko attributed to a lack of competition within the sector and its increasing nationalization.\n\nIn 2009, Yuri Savenko and Valery Krasnov provided the leadership for the Second East European Congress of Psychiatry in Moscow.\n\nSavenko is a supporter of preventive eugenics, he justifies enforced sterilization of women, which is practiced in Moscow psychoneurological nursing homes, and states that \n\nHowever, Article 7 of Part 1 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court defines enforced sterilization among crimes against humanity. In 2013, he seemed to take the opposite point of view and criticize German eugenics in the documentary \"Archetype. Neurosis. Libido. T-4 Death Squad\" produced by the Rossiya K TV channel.\n\nIn 2005, Savenko as the president of the IPA expressed their joint surprise at the proposal by the Executive Committee of the American Psychiatric Association to exclude homosexuality as a mental disorder from manuals on psychiatry, referred the proposal to antipsychiatric actions, and stated that ideological, social and liberal reasoning for the proposal was substituted for scientific one. His statement was put in the following words: “It is surprising for us that the substitution of ideological, social and liberal reasoning for scientific one came not from Russia and that the Executive Committee of the APA unanimously proposed to exclude homosexuality as a mental disorder from manuals on psychiatry. It shows that even the well-developed legal framework for psychiatry and the denationalization of mental health service (by 80% in the USA), ie, the absence of two of the three factors that played a crucial role in Soviet abuses of psychiatry, does not protect against inherently antipsychiatric actions.” In 2014, Savenko changed his mind about homosexuality, and he and Perekhov in their joint paper criticized and referred the trend to consider homosexuality as a mental disorder to Soviet mentality that has endured into the present day.\n\nOn 19 December 2013, the Commission on Professional Ethics Issues at the Board of the Russian Society of Psychiatrists delivered to Savenko when he raised ethical issues concerning the case of Mikhail Kosenko in publications, a resolution as follows:\n\nSavenko responded that the strikingly unethical nature of the resolution by the Ethical Commission (of 12 December 2013) showed in the ascription to the IPA open letter to the WPA, hosted on the website, of phrases that were never used there. He adds we see a rather awkward performance of a social role using the old scenario of accusatory campaigns of Soviet times to have the possibility to refer to \"the opinion of the professional public\" for use abroad.\n\nOn 10 December 2013, Savenko received the award of the Moscow Helsinki Group \"for historic contribution to the defence of human rights and the human rights movement\".\n\n"}
