{"id": "51958893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51958893", "title": "1946 pacification of villages by PAS NZW", "text": "1946 pacification of villages by PAS NZW\n\nThe 1946 pacification of villages by \"PAS\" NZW was the 1946 killing of 79 Polish nationals of Belarusian ethnicity in the area of Bielsk County, north-eastern Poland, in the aftermath of World War II committed by members of Polish Extraordinary Special Actions unit of the National Military Union (Polish: Pogotowie Akcji Specjalnej Narodowego Zjednoczenia Wojskowego (PAS NZW)).\n\nMass killing of civilians was the subject of official investigation by the government-affiliated Institute of National Remembrance since 1995. The inquiry resulted in the publication of a final report in June 2005, summarizing the case. The Commission interviewed a total of 169 persons, and analysed all documents and testimonies dating back to the 1949 show trial of Polish cursed soldiers: Captain Romuald Rajs of the PAS Special Forces, and his co-conspirator and deputy, Lieutenant Kazimierz Chmielowski from NZW.\n\nAmong the individuals questioned by IPN were families of victims as well as former soldiers of the 3rd Brigade of NZW responsible for the death of 79 Polish nationals of Belarusian ethnicity from several villages in the Bielsk County. The IPN closed its official investigation without additional charges filed, due to already carried out sentences in the Stalinist period coupled with extrajudicial killings by governmental authorities during the Polish anti-Communist insurrection. No living perpetrators of atrocities committed in early 1946 have been identified.\n\nIn January and February 1946, units of the PAS Special Forces (\"Pogotowie Akcji Specjalnej\") from the National Military Union (\"Narodowe Zjednoczenie Wojskowe\") burned down the villages of Zaleszany, Wólka Wygonowska, Zanie, Szpaki, and Końcowizna. They also executed 30 coachmen on 30 January 1945 near Puchały Stare, and a similar number of armed resistors in Zanie on 2 February 1946. The atrocities continue to receive considerable press coverage by the Belarusian media who routinely identify the victims as Belarusians even though they had never been the citizens of that country, and considered themselves to be Poles.\n\nDuring the Soviet advance across occupied Poland, in November 1944 the Home Army split up when faced with the prospect of fighting two wartime enemies, Germany and the USSR. As a result, the National Military Union (\"Narodowe Zjednoczenie Wojskowe\") was formed. The Home Army was disbanded entirely by the order of Gen. Leopold Okulicki on 18 January 1945, due to Soviet takeover of Poland. Thousands of underground soldiers were arrested by the NKVD and sent to the Soviet Gulag. Okulicki was murdered in Moscow. The annexation of eastern half of the Second Polish Republic by Joseph Stalin was ratified by the new communist authorities in postwar Poland on 16 August 1945, which was followed by mass expulsions of Poles and Belarusians across the new borders. \nMayor Zygmunt Szendzielarz refused to surrender; and recreated the already disassembled Polish 5th Wilno Brigade of Armia Krajowa in order to oppose the Soviet occupation of Podlachia (Podlasie) and the Białystok region. Equipped with machine guns and machine pistols, his brigade fought a successful battle with the advancing Red Army and the pro-Soviet Polish People's Army around Miodusy-Dworaki village in Siemiatycze County on 18 August 1945. The brigade was joined by Captain Romuald Rajs (codename \"Bury\") with 29 soldiers of the State Forest Defence Battalion in September 1945. However, faced with overwhelming concentration of the enemy forces, Major Szendzielarz ordered the dissolution of the 5th Brigade in the same month. \n\nCaptain Rajs (\"Bury\") was active in the area of Wilno during the German occupation of Poland. Since 1943, he led the 1st Company of the 3rd Wilno Brigade of Armia Krajowa with the rank of Second Lieutenant. After the dissolution of the 5th Brigade Rajs made contact with Commandant of the National Military Union \"Okręg III Białystok\", Major Jan Szklarek, and moved his LWP platoon under his command. He was promoted to the rank of Captain and became leader of the PAS Special Forces (\"Pogotowie Akcji Specjalnej\") within NZW \"Białystok\". The process of unification of smaller underground units in the area of Wysokie Mazowieckie County, commanded by Kazimierz Chmielowski (\"Rekin\"; meaning \"Shark\", in Polish) until December 1945, resulted in the gathering of the largest anti-Soviet partisan group in the region.\n\nBy the end of 1945 the NZW \"III Białystok\" consolidated most of the local anticommunist underground by absorbing into its own command scattered units of NSZ and NOW. Many former members of resistance left the forest to begin a new life, although for some of them the return to civilian life was not possible, because both, MO and the NKVD have compiled hit lists of anticommunist conspirators from local sources. By early 1946 the NZW was the only underground organization still capable of active resistance. The assaults included destruction of MO outposts and Communist Party bureaus, ambushes on special units of UBP, KBW, WP and NKWD, as well as various retaliatory actions. A few local towns were taken over by PAS NZW temporarily. Some police stations were destroyed repeatedly.\n\nIn early January 1946 NZW headquarters called a meeting of local commanders. Rajs was given leadership of partisans enrolled by Chmielowski (\"Rekin\"). His unit, consisting of 228 soldiers, was renamed as the 3rd Wilno Brigade of the NZW PAS. A decision was made to move the entire force to an area around Bielsk Podlaski for further military training.\n\nOn 27 January 1946 the battalion entered Łozice village and approached a gathering of horse-drawn vehicles organized by the local authorities in need of conscripted labour. The partisans requisitioned around 40 carriages and ordered their drivers to go along. Some coachmen mistakenly believed that the uniformed soldiers have belonged to the communist forces. The battalion boarded the carriages and in the same evening rode to the County of Hajnówka. Rajs ordered the attack on Hajnówka where the Polish communist militia as well as some Red Army soldiers returning to the USSR, were stationing. The takeover of Hajnówka was unsuccessful. The farmers with horse-drawn carriages remained with the battalion throughout January as means of transportation even though several failed attempts were made by PAS NZW to replace them with new carriers.\n\nContrary to opinions disseminated by politicized media in today's Belarus, the single criterion used by PAS NZW in the selection of carriages was their durability and strength; it was not the alleged faith of the actual coachmen, nor their purported Belarusian roots, as revealed by research conducted by the Polish Institute of National Remembrance. The coachmen came to Łozice from about a dozen neighbouring villages because they were ordered to do so by the communist authorities attempting to transport nationalized wood to Orla village. Meanwhile, the relocation of the NZW battalion was planned well ahead.\n\nOn 29 January 1946 the battalion arrived in Zaleszany, Hajnówka County, to feed the horses. During a routine document check by the partisans, a Red Army soldier and NKVD informer, Aleksander Zielinko was identified, serving as Communist Party secretary in nearby Suchowolce. All inhabitants were ordered to report to a big house of Dymitr Sacharczuk where they were taken hostage. They were questioned on the whereabouts of suspected collaborator, and Sołtys of Zaleszany, Łukasz Demianiuk who vanished. His 16-year-old son Piotr (already a PPR member) was identified and executed together with Zielinko. Not a single hostage was killed from the gathering at Sacharczuk's house. According to official report released in 2005 by the Institute of National Remembrance, all hostages kept in Sacharczuk's house run out to safety and survived; they were not persecuted, but the PAS NZW set a number of buildings on fire, and 16 people died in Zaleszany while attempting to hide from the soldiers. The final IPN investigation revealed that the later description of what happened there was falsified by the Stalinist functionaries.\nThe unit led by Rajs (\"Bury\") departed for the neighbouring village of Wólka Wygonowska. Some farm buildings were set ablaze for refusal to provide assistance. Two local men were shot dead while they were running away from the soldiers: Jan Zinkiewicz and Stefan Babulewicz. Many year later, Zinkiewicz's daughter rationalized that her father ran to save his farm equipment from burning, and that he was not fleeing from them.\n\nOn the following day of 30 January 1945 the command of NZW PAS Brigade arrived in Krasna Wieś village where they arranged the exchange of horse-drawn carriers. Eye-witness Włodzimierz K. from Jagodniki later testified that they arrived in Krasna Wieś ahead of others. Most of the partisan group fell behind. The new coachmen were ordered to wait for them but instead, took their horse-drawn carriages and run away. They were chased through the forest by the platoon led by \"Modrzew\", caught around Puchały Stare village, arrested, taken away in two groups, and executed as traitors. Years later, the exhumations conducted by the authorities in Puchały on 27 April 1951 revealed that 27 farmers have been killed there and buried in two shallow graves. In 1997 the number was raised to 30. The subsequent 2005 investigation by IPN revealed – based on new evidence – that purported eye-witness of the massacre, Prokop Iwacik, lied in his postwar testimonies, because he could not have possibly been there. Officer \"Modrzew\" (\"Larch\" in English) was killed on 16 February 1946; and his true identity remains unknown.\n\nAt the end of January 1946 the soldiers of the 3rd Brigade came to Zanie, Podlaskie Voivodeship, to requisition food. One of the partisans, Kazimierz Borkowski, was struck with an axe to the head by a farmer who refused to give in. Rajs, who had already received information in Hajnówka, that ethnic Belarusians who lived in Szpaki–Zanie served as Volksdeutsche under Nazi Germany, gave an order for the pacification of the two villages. During his postwar interrogations Rajs informed that the actual order of burning down Zanie, Szpaki and Końcowizna in retaliation for hostile attitude towards NZW, came from his superior Florian Lewicki \"nom de guerre\" \"Lis\" (\"Kotwicz\"), regional commandant of NZW (real name, Jan Szklarek). The NZW PAS unit consisting of three platoons of about 30 men led by \"Rekin\" (Chmielowski), \"Wiarus\", and \"Bitny\" (J. Boguszewski), was sent to Szpaki–Zanie on 2 February 1946. Rajs was not present. He went with his command to Końcowizna village, where no-one was killed. According to postwar interrogation of Kazimierz Chmielowski (\"Rekin\"), the NZW troops were fired upon by the locals in Zanie. Later report by the Special Commission from Bielsk Podlaski confirmed that a submachine gun with ammunition was found in one of the burned out buildings. A dozen farmhouses were set on fire and 36 men singled out for collaboration with the enemy were executed by the platoon led by \"Rekin\". The names of the men to be shot have been secretly obtained by the Armia Krajowa Obywatelska from Bielsk County. Subsequently, both \"Wiarus\" and \"Bitny\" (along with \"Modrzew\") were killed in action on 12 February 1946 in Gmina Ełk. \n\nChmielowski (\"Rekin\") is said to have attacked other villages in gmina Kleszczele as well, where some farmhouses where burned. According to Rajs, Chmielowski did it on his own accord, although Chmielowski himself insisted during questioning by the communist interrogators that bullets were fired up into the air. Notably, as many as five alleged pacification actions by \"Rekin\" were fabricated by the UB interrogators, since the village of Mostek never existed in the Bielsk County as revealed by the IPN investigation.\n\nOn 17 November 1948, Romuald Rajs was captured in Karpacz by \"Urząd Bezpieczeństwa\" while on vacation. A month later, his co-conspirator Chmielowski was arrested on 13 December 1948. They were tried in a show trial held at the Białystok movie theatre \"Ton\", and charged with membership in AK and NZW aiming to overthrow the communist government of Poland, coupled with armed assaults on the Polish Army and the Red Army, the assassination of MO functionaries, attacks on the UB security outposts, the railway guard, as well as assassination of civilians during forced requisitions of property, and possession of assault weapons. Individually, Romuald Rajs was also charged with desertion from the Polish Army. They were executed on 30 December 1949 without material evidence of alleged civilian atrocities, which were obtained by the communist authorities well over a year later, in the spring of 1951. Rajs denied his guilt of the massacres. He was executed on 30 December 1949 in the Białystok prison at the age of 36 along with Lieutenant Kazimierz Chmielowski.\n\nIn 1970, a memorial plate was installed in Zanie to commemorate the victims of the massacre. The burial place of most of the victims were not confirmed until the 1951 exhumations. Three more bodies were identified by the IPN pathologists in 1997. After the fall of communism, a Committee of the murdered coachmen family members was created, the victims' remains were reburied in Bielsk Podlaski.\n\nOfficial commemoration ceremonies are being held at anniversaries of the tragedy in Zaleszczany and Bielsk Podlaski. Leaders of the Belarusian minority in Poland view the 1946 massacre as an important traumatic event in post-war history. According to Oleg Latyszonek, a Polish historian of Belarusian ancestry, the massacre led to the Belarusian minority growing more loyal to the Polish communist regime of that time. Some Belarusian journalists have commented that Polish nationalists attempt to rehabilitate Romuald Rajs because of him being a member of the postwar struggle against the communist occupation of Poland. In 1995, the Military Court of Warsaw nullified the 1948 death penalty given to Rajs based on new Polish law ordering formal cancellation of Stalinist judgements against defendants sentenced for their fight for freedom. His family received a compensation from the Polish state. On February 2, 2012, on the anniversary of the 1946 massacre, the Polish Sejm has introduced a Day of Commemoration of the Cursed soldiers on 1 March. The families of the victims of the massacre have not received any compensations according to Belarusian sources.\n\nA thriller by Polish novelist, Katarzyna Bonda \"\" – who has Belarusian roots – titled \"Okularnik\" (Glasses-Wearer), part of her detective series about a fictional profiler Sasza Załuska in today's Poland, is inspired by the 1946 pacifications of villages in Podlachia. The book received considerable coverage by the media in Belarus without being translated into Belarusian.\n\nIn 2012, the Monument to Orthodox inhabitants of Białystok who were killed and went missing in the years 1939–1956 was erected in Białystok to commemorate Orthodox Christians of the Białystok region who perished during the anticommunist insurrection in 1946.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47277591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47277591", "title": "A. N. Gopal", "text": "A. N. Gopal\n\nA. N. Gopal was the second Indian President of the Protestant Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church Society and served during the period 1951-1955. On completion of his term as President of the AELC, he was assigned the responsibility of President of the Lutheran Theological College, Rajahmundry.\nApart from his primary responsibility to the Andhra Evangelical Lutheran Church Society, he also served in an honorary capacity as President of the United Evangelical Lutheran Churches in India \"(formerly Federation of Evangelical Lutheran Churches in India)\".\n\nIn 1955 when Gopal successfully completed a term of President of the AELC, he went on study leave to the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago, where he underwent postgraduate studies in theology. On his return, he was assigned to the Lutheran Theological College, Rajahmundry.\n\nIn 1963, A. N. Gopal accepted the position as Principal of the Voorhees College (India) in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, the very College where Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan once studied.\n\n"}
{"id": "30172101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30172101", "title": "Akis Tsochatzopoulos", "text": "Akis Tsochatzopoulos\n\nApostolos Tsochatzopoulos, commonly known by the diminutive form Akis (; born 31 July 1939, Thessaloniki), is a Greek former politician who served as a minister in several Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) cabinets between 1981 and 2004.\n\nAkis Tsochatzopoulos was a founding member of PASOK. He was elected to the Hellenic Parliament for the first time in 1981 and remained in seat until 2007. On 1 July 2011, amid accusations of corruption scandals, the Hellenic Parliament voted in favor of pressing charges against him. He was subsequently convicted on 7 October 2013.\nTsochatzopoulos has held the following ministerial posts in the duration of his career:\n\n\nIn 2004, he came under strong criticism by members of the press and Greece's political scene in regards to his wedding in Paris and the reception that followed at the Four Seasons Hotel in order to have a view of the Eiffel Tower.\n\nOn 30 May 2010 the Greek newspapers \"I Kathimerini\" and \"Proto Thema\" publicized their discovery that Vicky Stamati, wife of Akis Tsochatzopoulos, had purchased a house for one million euro from an offshore company on Dionysiou Areopagitou Street, in one of Athens' most prestigious neighborhoods, only a few days before parliament passed a series of austerity measures aimed at increasing taxes and combating tax evasion. At the time Akis Tsochatzopoulos had threatened that he would go to the courts, but nevertheless on June 7 the committee in charge of the case asked for the removal of Tsochatzopoulos' party privileges because of evidence found against him.\n\nIn early 2011, following an investigation by a specialized committee of the Hellenic Parliament, evidence emerged that Tsochatzopoulos was also involved in the Siemens scandal. Among others, the committee statement included: \"Mr. Tsochatzopoulos is being checked in regards to his activities in the capacity of Minister for National Defence between 1996 and 2001. The Committee combines the orders for defence systems that occurred under his leadership with the confessions of the people managing the 'black' money given by Siemens as bribe for the MIM-104 Patriot systems\".\n\nOn 31 March 2011 a parliamentary committee decided to inspect Tsochatzopoulos' assets, as well as those of New Democracy politician George Alogoskoufis and another former minister of the same party, on whose account deposits of up to 178 million euro were found. The aim of the investigation into Tsochatzopoulos' assets was to verify that his tax forms were truthful or if any other irregularities had occurred.\n\nIn April 2011 new evidence emerged that tied Tsochatzopoulos to yet another scandal in addition to the previous two, this time with the German company Ferrostaal in relation to the purchase of German submarines. According to the newspaper \"Real News\", Tsochatzopoulos had received thanks from the German representatives for having been chosen for the purchase before a deal had been signed. Tsochatzopoulos threatened to go to courts over the newspaper's front page, which he considered to be \"insulting\" and defamatory. In mid April the parliamentary group of PASOK decided on the creation of committee to investigate the submarine scandal. Tsochatzopoulos accused the parliamentary group of acting in line with the opposition and of making wrong moves against him. A few days later he made a request to the Areios Pagos, Greece's supreme court, to move faster with the procedure of investigating his assets. On 11 April 2011 the George Papandreou government decided to expel him from the party.\n\nA vote in parliament on 28 April on the creation of a committee to determine whether or not Tsochatzopoulos should be held accountable for criminal actions in the purchase of the German type 214 submarines was voted overwhelmingly in favor, with 226 of 300 votes in the house. Almost a month later, on 26 May, the findings on the committee for the investigation of Tsochatzopoulos' assets were published; they found that Tsochatzopoulos had lied about the value of his home, which was greater than his tax documents stated.\n\nOn 6 June 2011 the committee decision in relation to the purchase of the German submarines was handed over to the president of the Hellenic Parliament. The committee suggested that Tsochatzopoulos be criminally charged for the attempting to pass off money obtained through illegal means as legitimate. The same day he gave an interview to the Greek TV channel Skai where he denied all charges and said that the accusations are a plot against him.\n\nOn 1 July 2011 the committee's suggestion that charges be made against Tsochatzopoulos was passed in parliament with a majority of 216 of 300 seats. On 11 April 2012 he was arrested on charges of money laundering.\n\nOn Monday, 7 October 2013, he was found \"guilty on all charges\". The following day he was sentenced to the maximum penalty of 20 years incarceration.\nTsochatzopoulos was transferred to Korydallos Prisons in October 2013. Tsochatzopoulos is suffering from multiple health problems and has recently undergone heart surgery. After 5 years imprisoned he was released from prison in July 2018 because of his serious health problems.\n"}
{"id": "30839228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30839228", "title": "An-Nasir Ali bin Salah", "text": "An-Nasir Ali bin Salah\n\nAn-Nasir Ali bin Salah (died 1329) was a claimant to the Zaidi state in Yemen, acting in rivalry with other pretenders in 1328–1329.\n\nAli bin Salah bin Ibrahim was a grandson of the imam al-Mahdi Ibrahim who died in Rasulid captivity in 1284. When Imam al-Mahdi Muhammad bin al-Mutahhar died in 1328, a turbulent situation arose in the Zaidiyyah territories. Ali bin Salah put forward his da'wa (call for the imamate) in As Sudah, taking the \"laqab\" name an-Nasir. He was however immediately opposed by three other claimants. Fighting between the contenders followed, and lives were lost. After one year, an-Nasir Ali bin Salah died and was buried in As Suda. The winner in the power struggle was al-Mu'ayyad Yahya (d. 1346).\n\n"}
{"id": "2283136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283136", "title": "Archaeological tourism", "text": "Archaeological tourism\n\nArchaeotourism or Archaeological tourism is a form of cultural tourism, which aims to promote public interest in archaeology and the conservation of historical sites.\n\nArchaeological tourism can include all products associated with public archaeological promotion, including visits to archaeological sites, museums, interpretation centers, reenactments of historical occurrences, and the rediscovery of indigenous products, festivals, or theaters.\n\nArchaeological tourism walks a fine line between promoting archaeological sites and an area's cultural heritage and causing more damage to them, thus becoming invasive tourism. Archaeologists have expressed concerns that tourism encourages particular ways of seeing and knowing the past. When archaeological sites are run by tourist boards, ticket fees and souvenir revenues can become a priority, and the question remains whether a site is worth opening to the public or remaining closed and keeping the site out of harm's way. Damage to irreplaceable archaeological materials is not only direct, as when remains are disordered, altered, destroyed, or looted, but often the indirect result of poorly planned development of tourism amenities, such as hotels, restaurants, roads, and shops. These can drastically alter the environment in ways that produce flooding, landslides, or undermine ancient structures.\n\n"}
{"id": "17031146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17031146", "title": "Barasana-Eduria language", "text": "Barasana-Eduria language\n\nBarasana is one of the various languages spoken by the Indigenous peoples of the Americas belonging to the Amazonian region, specifically in Colombia. It belongs to the Eastern branch of the Tucanoan language family. The people who speak the language are also known as the Barasana. The population of its native speakers is about 1,990 according to a census taken in 1993. Native speakers' tribes are spread out among the Pira Paraná River in Colombia and the banks of the Vaupés River Basin.\n\nThe different dialects within this language family utilize their individual languages as barriers to distinguish themselves through their own identity. Marriages between two people who speak the same language are taboo; for they are marrying their own brothers and sisters. Instead, Barasanans participate in exogamous marriages, which promote multilingualism of the people in the region. This also serves as an explanation for similarities between different dialects in the region. Barasana and Eduria are often considered separate languages by the individuals of these groups, who are allowed to intermarry. However, the languages' similarities are up to 98%; the other 2% accounts for minor differences in phonology.\n\nMany different grammar characteristics of Barasana separate it distinctively from various other groups in the language family. Out of the Eastern Tucanoan languages, Barasana is the only one to maintain a three portion distinction between spatial and temporal distances. It also differs in many other things such as nasality of words, consonantal systems, phonemes, and imperatives.\n\nBarasana is an aboriginal Amerindian language spoke in the Vaupés region of Colombia in the Amazon Basin. The language belongs to the Tucanoan language family, specifically the Eastern branch. Most closely related to Barasana are Macuna, Kubeo, and Desano, also Eastern Tucanoan languages located in Colombia. Barasana and Eduria are considered separate languages by their native speakers, who can intermarry due to cultural differences regardless of the language similarities. It is also classified of having a Linguistic typology of OVS.\n\nNative speakers' tribes are located in Colombia, specifically in the regions of the Vaupés River Basin and the Pira Paraná River. The Vapués river can be seen in the map. According to a 1993 census, there are approximately 1,900 speakers; which classifies this language as endangered. It is vigorously used in standard form, but is not widespread throughout the region.\n\nThe Barasana dialect is also known as Southern Barasano, Come Masa, Comematsa, Janera, Paneroa, Yebamasa; Eduria is also known as Edulia, Taibano, Taiwaeno, Taiwano.\n\nIt has 23 phonemes, containing 11 consonants and twelve vowels. There are various symbols that are used in the language that represent the various phonemic orthography of the language of Barasano itself. A phonological word in Barasano can consist of either one, or even up to nine syllables. Another important aspect of the language is stress and pitch. Many words in the language itself can be considered either high or low pitch. The Barasano language expresses this importance by way of the phonemics on the word level.\n\nConsonants: \nVowels:\n\nBarí has six vowels: /a, e, i, ɨ, o, u/.\n\n/p/ occurs in loanwords from Spanish and other indigenous languages.\n\nBarasano has interrogative and imperative markers the take place of evidential endings found at the end of a verb.\n\nColors: \nBody parts: \n"}
{"id": "17084714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17084714", "title": "Bulgarians in Albania", "text": "Bulgarians in Albania\n\nEthnic Bulgarians in present-day Albania live mostly in the areas of Mala Prespa, Golo Brdo and Gora. According to the Bulgarian State Agency for Bulgarians Abroad, 40,000 to 50,000 persons of Bulgarian origin are living in Albania, but other sources have estimated Albania's Bulgarians to number as many as 100,000. Most speakers of Slavic languages in Albania converted to Islam during the period of Ottoman rule in the Balkans. Ethnic identity can be fluid among the Albania's Slavophonic population, who might identify as Albanian, Bulgarian or Macedonian, depending on the circumstances. Between 2001 and 2016, around 4,470 Albanian nationals applied for a Bulgarian citizenship and over 2,600 of them were granted one. The Bulgarian minority was finally recognized by the Albanian government in October 2017.\n\nThe first reference to a Slavic presence in Albania dates to 548, when the Slavs reached Epidamnos (Durrës), capturing fortresses in the city's vicinity. Slavic settlement near Epirus in southern Albania is mentioned in a note in a 10th-century manuscript of Strabo's \"Geographica\", and near Durrës in a Middle Bulgarian translation of the Manasses Chronicle.\n\nArchaeologists have suggested the existence of a Bulgar archaeological culture in what is now modern Macedonia and eastern Albania, citing fortresses, burials, various products of metallurgy and pottery that could be of Bulgar origin.\n\nAccording to toponymic evidence, Slavic settlement was concentrated in the region between the Vjosë and Devoll Rivers. Slavic placenames in this region suggest an eastern South Slavic (i.e. Bulgarian, as opposed to Serbo-Croatian) dialect. Bulgarian Slavs were the majority of the population in the area by the Early Middle Ages, and remained a significant group in central and southern Albania through the 15th century. In the 850s and 860s, Simeon I's First Bulgarian Empire included the Slavic-inhabited areas of what is today western Macedonia and southern Albania, which constituted the Kutmichevitsa administrative province. Kutmichevista included the cities of Ohrid, Glavinitsa (Ballsh), Belgrad (Berat) and Devoll (at the village of Zvezdë). The Bulgarian enlighteners Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav are known to have worked in Kutmichevitsa, where according to the 11th-century account of Theophylact of Bulgaria, Clement had 3,500 students. Clement's and Naum's activity, as well as the consolidation of Bulgarian religious and state authority, helped establish the Bulgarian identity of this Slavic population.\n\nFrom 989-995 to 1005, Albania was ruled Samuel of Bulgaria. Under Samuel's rule, the region was governed by Ivan Vladimir, his vassal and the husband of his daughter Kosara. In 1005, the area was reconquered by the Byzantine Empire. While the area was under Byzantine rule, a Bulgarian leader named Tihomir headed an uprising against the Byzantines near Drach; he was first supported but then killed by another insurgent, Peter Delyan, who proceeded to head the uprising and briefly ruled much of Albania, Macedonia, Serbia and western Bulgaria. In 1078, Nikephoros Vassilaki raised an army from the area surrounding Drach, consisting of \"Franks (who came from Italy), Bulgarians, Romans (i.e. Byzantine Greeks) and Arvanites (i.e. Albanians)\"\n\nThe area fell under Bulgarian rule again between 1231 and 1240, under Ivan Asen II, who \"routed the Greek army ... and conquered the entire Greek, Albanian and Serbian land from Odrin <nowiki>[</nowiki>Edirne<nowiki>]</nowiki> to Drach.\" John Kukuzelis, a famous medieval composer of Bulgarian descent, was born in the city in the late 13th century. During the Angevin period(1250–1350), the Slavic population lived mainly in the cities and villages near the sea, along the Drin River and in the vicinity of Lake Ohrid.\n\nIn the late 14th century, Venetian records note a number of Bulgarians (\"de genere Bulgarorum\") from southern Albania being sold as slaves, suggesting the Albanians may have subjugated the Slavic population, which ultimately led to its extermination, migration and assimilation.\n\nFrancois Pouqueville, in his 1820 book \"Travels in Epirus, Albania, Macedonia, and Thessaly\" described Bulgarian villages in the Devol region.\n\nIn the 1920s, Albanians referred to orthodox Slavs in Albania as Bulgarians.\nThe new Albanian state did not attempt to assimilate this minority or to forcibly change the names of local towns and villages. During the second Balkan Conference in 1932, the Bulgarian and Albanian delegations signed a protocol regarding the recognition of the ethnic Bulgarian minority in Albania. Due to a change in the government and the upcoming World War, the resolution was never ratified.\n\nThe people in Albania who have preserved their Bulgarian ethnic identity are an important testimony to the truth about the historical past of the country as well as the geographical region of Macedonia. Therefore, in the context of the integration process of Albania's accession to the EU, Bulgaria naturally insists on the equality of Bulgarians in Albania with the other minority ethnic groups according to the country's practice and legislation in this area, i.e. the official recognition of a Bulgarian minority along with other officially recognized minorities.\n\nThe Bulgarian community is one of the most endangered, due to three main reasons:\n\n\nAlthough the 1989 Albanian census recorded 782 people who claimed either Romanian, Czechoslovakian or Bulgarian nationality, The Albanian statistics institute denies the existence of a Bulgarian minority in Albania. In 1998 Paskal Milo, then the foreign minister of Albania, made the following statement on minorities: \"After World War II, we know this minority as Macedonian. I’d rather not elaborate on why we chose this way, but the Communist regime made this decision and it’s difficult for us now to change that.\" Recent official reports from Albania have not stated that any people have identified as Bulgarian in the last census.\n\nThe Bulgarian government and some inhabitants of the Mala Prespa, Golo Bardo and Gora regions dispute this.\n\nTwo organisations for Bulgarians in Albania exist: \"Prosperitet — Golo Brdo\" and the cultural association \"Ivan Vazov\" in Mala Prespa.\n\nAccording to Macedonian authorities, the Slav minority of Albania consists only of ethnic Macedonians and not Bulgarians. In 2008, the Bulgarian government reported that it had reached an agreement with the Albanian government that forms in Albania's next census would allow the Bulgarian community in the country to be counted. In 2011, Bulgaria's Finance Minister, who is responsible for relations with the Bulgarian diaspora, met with members of the Bulgarian community in Albania, announcing that a Bulgarian cultural center would be opened in Tirana\n\nOn 15.02.2017 the EU parliament for the first time in its 2016 Annual Progress Report on Albania, called on the country to recognize the Bulgarian minority in the country.\n\nThe official text of the report says: Notes that further efforts are needed to protect the rights of all minorities in Albania, through the full implementation of the relevant legislation; recommends that the rights of people with Bulgarian ethnicity in the Prespa, Golo Brdo and Gora regions be enshrined in law and ensured in practice;\n\nIn September 2017, despite the pressure from Bulgarian MEPS, the Albanian government continue to lack any recognition of a Bulgarian minority, the Albanian government have instead recognised two new minority groups, being Bosnians and Egyptians.\n\nOn 12.10.2017 the Albanian parliament recognized by law the Bulgarian minority in Mala Prespa, Golo Brdo and Gora.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26271708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26271708", "title": "Buriro", "text": "Buriro\n\nBuriro () is a Sindhi tribe in Sindh, Pakistan. The people of the tribe speak Sindhi and live in interior Sindh. \n"}
{"id": "3025712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3025712", "title": "Chikan (body contact)", "text": "Chikan (body contact)\n\nChikan (痴漢, チカン, or ちかん) is a Japanese term referring to sexual harassment or other obscene act conducted against the victim's will, or a person who commits such an act. The term is frequently used to describe men who take advantage of the crowded conditions on the public transit systems to grope people. While the term is not defined in the Japanese legal system, vernacular use describes acts that violate several laws. The neologism referring to the corresponding female chikan is chijo. \n\nIn clinical psychology, the desire is called frotteurism. Although women on crowded trains in Japan are the most frequent targets of chikan, sexual predators in Japan can take advantage of people of either sex in other situations as well. One such situation (warned against in the sign depicted to the right) is bicycle parking lots, where a molester will wait until a woman or man is bent over, unlocking his or her bicycle lock, and then grope him or her from behind. Chikan often features in Japanese pornography, along with other non-consensual themes. As part of the effort to combat chikan, some railway companies have designated women-only passenger cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "1098164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1098164", "title": "Cyprus Mathematical Society", "text": "Cyprus Mathematical Society\n\nThe Cyprus Mathematical Society (CMS) aims to promote the mathematical education and science. It was founded in 1983. The C.M.S. is a non-profit organization supported by the voluntary work of its members. The C.M.S. counts over 600 members. In order to promote its aims, C.M.S. organizes Mathematical competition between students all over Cyprus, and takes part in international mathematics competitions (BMO, Junior BMO competition, PMWC, IMO). CMS organize a series of mathematics competitions as part of the selection process of the national teams in the international mathematics competitions and the Cyprus Mathematical Olympiad. The new selection process in described below.\n\nAs of 2005, in Cyprus Four provincial competitions are held in November in every district capital. In Lefkosia is called \"Iakovos Patatsos\", in Lemesos is called \"Andreas Vlamis\", in Larnaka and Ammochostos is called \"Petrakis Kyprianou\" and in Pafos is called \"Andreas Hadjitheoris\". Every grade has different problems. Afterwards ten high-school (Lyceum) students from every grade (1st, 2nd and 3rd grade) of every district are selected.<br>\nTotal: 4 districts * 3 grades * 10 students = 120 students.\n\nThen a National (Pancyprian) competition is held in December and is called \"\"Zeno\". Every grade still has different problems. Afterwards ten students from every grade are selected.<br>\nTotal: 3 grades * 10 students = 30 students.<br>\nThese student are usually divided into two groups according to the district they come from.\n\nEach group watches about eight to ten four-hour preparation lessons for the olympiad. During the lessons Four Team Selection Tests are held which are considered the four parts of the Selection Competition above 15.5 and are called \"Euclides\". All the student have the same test. In each of the competition five students are eliminated. So after the fourth competition the six member of national team for IMO and BMO and the four runners-up are selected.\n\n\nFour provincial competitions are also held in November in every district capital which have the same name as above. Afterwards 10 junior high-school (Gymnasium) students from every grade (1st, 2nd and 3rd grade) from every district are selected.<br>\nTotal: 4 districts * 3 grades * 10 students = 120 students.\n\nThen a National (Pancyprian) competition is held in December and is called \"Evagoras Pallikaridis\"\". Every grade has different problems. Afterwards 10 students from every grade are selected.<br>\nTotal: 3 grades * 10 students = 30 students.<br>\nThis student are usually divide into two groups according to the district they come from.\n\nEach group watches about ten to twelve-four hour preparing lessons for the olympiad. During the lessons Four Team Selection Tests are held which are considered the four parts of the Selection Competition under 15.5 and are called \"Euclides\". All the student have the same test. In each of the competition 5 students are eliminated. So after the 4th competition the six member of national team for Junior BMO and the four runners-up are selected.\n\n\nThe main publication of the CMS is the Mathematic Step ().\n\nOther publications:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51576383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51576383", "title": "Dame d'atour", "text": "Dame d'atour\n\nDame d'atour was an office at the royal court of France. It existed in nearly all French courts from the 16th-century onward. The \"dame d'honneur\" was selected from the members of the highest French nobility.\n\nAt least from the tenure of Isabeau of Bavaria as queen, there had been a post named \"demoiselle d'atour\" or \"femme d'atour\", but this had originally been the title of the queen's chamber maids and divided to several people.\n\nThe office of \"Dame d'atour\" was created in 1534, and was one of the highest ranked offices among the ladies-in-waiting of the queen and given only to members of the nobility.\n\nThe \"dame d'atour\" had the responsibility of the queen's wardrobe and jewelry and supervised the dressing of the queen and the chamber staff of \"femme du chambre\". \n\nWhen the \"dame d'honneur\" was absent, she was replaced by the \"dame d'atour\" as the supervisor of the female personnel of the queen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158143", "title": "Demographic history of the United States", "text": "Demographic history of the United States\n\nThis article is about the demographic history of the United States.\n\n1610-1780 population data. Note that the census numbers do not include Native Americans until 1860.\n\nFrom 1890 to 2010, the median age at first marriage was as follows:\n\nNearly all commercial activity was run in small privately owned businesses with good credit both at home and in England being essential since they were often cash poor. Most settlements were nearly independent of trade with Britain as most grew or made nearly everything they needed—the average cost of imports per most households was only about 5-15 English pounds per year. Most settlements were created by complete family groups with several generations often present in each settlement. Probably close to 80% of the families owned the land they lived and farmed on. They nearly all used English Common Law as their basic code of law and, except for the French, Dutch and Germans, spoke some dialect of English. They established their own popularly elected governments and courts and were, within a few years, mostly self-governing, self-supporting and self-replicating.\n\nNearly all colonies and, later, states in the United States were settled by migration from another colony or state, as foreign immigration usually only played a minor role after the first initial settlements were started. \n\nThe New England colonists included more educated men as well as many skilled farmers, tradesmen and craftsmen. They were mostly farmers and settled in small villages for common religious activity. Shipbuilding, commerce, and fisheries were important in coastal towns. New England's healthy climate (the cold winters killed the mosquitoes and other disease-bearing insects), and abundant food supply resulted in the lowest death rate and highest birth rate of any place in the world (marriage was expected and birth control was not, and a much higher than average number of children and mothers survived).\n\nThe eastern and northern frontier around the initial New England settlements was mainly settled by the Yankee descendants of the original New Englanders. Emigration to the New England colonies after 1640 and the start of the English Civil War decreased to less than 1% (about equal to the death rate) in nearly all years prior to 1845. The rapid growth of the New England colonies (total population ~700,000 by 1790) was almost entirely due to the high birth rate (>3%) and low death rate (<1%) per year.\n\nThe middle colonies' settlements were scattered west of New York City, New York (est. 1626 by Dutch, taken over by the English in 1664) and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (est. 1682). The Dutch-started colony of New York had the most eclectic collection of residents from many different nations and prospered as a major trading and commercial center after about 1700. The Pennsylvania colonial center was dominated by the Quakers for decades after they emigrated there, mainly from the North Midlands of England, from about 1680 to 1725. The main commercial center of Philadelphia was run mostly by prosperous Quakers, supplemented by many small farming and trading communities with strong German contingents located in the Delaware River valley.\n\nMany more settlers arrived in the middle colonies starting in about 1680, when Pennsylvania was founded and many Protestant sects were encouraged to settle there for freedom of religion and good, cheap land. These settlers were of about 60% German and 33% English extraction. By 1780 in New York about 27% of the population were descendants of Dutch settlers 55,000 of 204,000. New Jersey had the rest of the Dutch where they were 14% of the population of 140,000. The rest were mostly English with a wide mixture of other Europeans and about 6% Blacks. New Jersey and Delaware had a majority of British with 20% German-descended colonists, about a 6% black population, and a small contingent of Swedish descendants of New Sweden. Nearly all were at least third-generation natives.\n\nThe main drive of the economy in Virginia, Maryland and South Carolina was large plantations growing staples for export, especially tobacco and rice. Outside the plantations, land was farmed by independent farmers who rented from the proprietors, or (most often) owned it outright. They emphasized subsistence farming to grow food for their large families. Many of the Irish and Irish immigrants specialized in rye-whiskey making, which they sold to obtain cash. In Maryland, by 1700 there were about 25,000 people and by 1750 that had grown more than 5 times to 130,000. By 1755, about 40% of Maryland's population was black.\n\nFrom 1717 to 1775 the western frontier was settled primarily by Presbyterian settlers who migrated in large part from Scotland and Ireland. Frontier settlers initially landed in Philadelphia or Baltimore before migrating to the western frontier for the cheaper land.\n\nAll the colonies, after they were started, grew mostly by natural growth, with foreign born populations rarely exceeding 10% in isolated instances. The last significant colonies to be settled mainly by immigrants were Pennsylvania in the early 18th century and Georgia and the Borderlands in the late 18th century, as migration (not immigration) continued to provide nearly all the settlers for each new colony or state. This pattern would continue throughout U.S. history. The extent of colonial settlements by 1800 is shown by this map from the University of Texas map collection.\n\nAccording to the source, \"The Source: A Guidebook of American Genealogy\" by Kory L. Meyerink and Loretto Dennis Szucs, the following were the countries of origin for new arrivals coming to the United States before 1790. The regions marked * were part of Great Britain. The ancestry of the 3.9 million population in 1790 has been estimated by various sources by sampling last names in the 1790 census and assigning them a country of origin. The Irish in the 1790 census were mostly Scots Irish. The French were mostly Huguenots. The total U.S. Catholic population in 1790 is estimated at 40,000 or 1.6%, perhaps a low count due to prejudice. The Native American Indian population inside territorial U.S. 1790 boundaries was less than 100,000.\n\n\nDuring the 17th century, approximately 350-400,000 English people migrated to Colonial America. However only half stayed permanently. They were 90% of whites in 1700. From 1700 to 1775 between 400-500,000 Europeans immigrated, 90% being Scots, Scots-Irish, Irish, Germans and Huguenots. Only 45,000 English supposedly immigrated in the period 1701 to 1775 (on Butler, Becoming America, The Revolution before 1776, 2000, p. 34-35 ), a figure questioned as too low (The Oxford History of the British Empire, The Eighteenth Century, Ed. P. J. Marshall, p. 3 the number given is at 80,000 less 29,000 Welsh which seems strange to the author, James Horn; Duncan regards the figure of 45,000 a \"mystery\") not including the 50,000-120,000 convicts transported, 33,000 of whom were English (Butler, ibid). Even the very high birth rate may not account for all of the nine-fold increase from 230,000 to 2.1 million. Another estimate with very similar results to ICPS study (except for the French and Swedish totals) gives the number of Americans of English ancestry as 1.9 million in 1790 or 47.9 percent of the total of 3.930 million (3.5 Welsh, 8.5 Scotch Irish, 4.3 Scots, Irish (South) 4.7, German 7.3, Dutch 2.7, French 1.7, Swedish 0.2 and Black, 19.3, Colin Bonwick, The American Revolution, 1991, p. 253, ). The southern Irish were overwhelmingly Protestant. \n\nThe 1790 population already reflected the approximate 50,000 \"Loyalists\" who emigrated to Canada at the end of the American Revolution, 7-10,000 who went to the UK and 6,000 to the Caribbean. 30,000 Americans emigrated to Ontario Canada in the 1790s, often referred to as \"Late Loyalists.\" They were for the most part not political refugees but went for generous land grants and tax 3/4 less than in the United States.\n\nAlready by 1790 the ancestry question was starting to become irrelevant to many, as intermarriage from different ethnic groups was becoming common, causing people to form a common American identity. The total white population in 1790 was about 80% of British ancestry, and would go on to roughly double by natural increase every 25 years. From about 1675 onward, the native-born population of what would become the United States would never again drop below 85% of the total.\n\nIn the early years of the U.S., immigration was only about 6,000 people a year on average, including French refugees from the slave revolt in Haiti. The French Revolution, starting in 1789, and the Napoleonic Wars from 1792 to 1814 severely limited immigration from Europe. The War of 1812 (1812–1814) with Britain again prevented any significant immigration. By 1808 Congress had banned the importation of slaves, slowing that human traffic to a trickle.\n\nAfter 1820 immigration gradually increased. For the first time federal records, including ship passenger lists, were kept for immigration. Total immigration for the year 1820 was 8,385, gradually building to 23,322 by 1830, with 143,000 total immigrating during the intervening decade. From 1831 to 1840 immigration increased greatly, to 599,000 total, as 207,000 Irish, even before the famine of 1845-49, started to emigrate in large numbers as Britain eased travel restrictions. 152,000 Germans, 76,000 British, and 46,000 French formed the next largest immigrant groups in that decade.\n\nFrom 1841 to 1850 immigration exploded to 1,713,000 total immigrants and at least 781,000 Irish, with the famine of 1845-1849 driving them, fled their homeland to escape poverty and death. In attempting to divert some of this traffic to help settle Canada, the British offered bargain fares of 15 shillings for transit to Canada, instead of the normal 5 pounds (100 shillings). Thousands of poor Irish took advantage of this offer and headed to Canada on what came to be called the \"coffin ships\" because of their high death rates. Once in Canada, many Irish walked across the border or caught an intercoastal freighter to the nearest major city in the United States - usually Boston or New York.\n\nBad potato crops and failed revolutions struck the heart of Europe in 1848, contributing to the decade's total of 435,000 Germans, 267,000 British and 77,000 French immigrants to America. Bad times in Europe drove people out; land, relatives, freedom, opportunity, and jobs in America lured them in.\n\nThe number of immigrants from 1830 on are from immigration records. The census of 1850 was the first census in which place of birth was asked. It is probably a reasonable estimate that the foreign born population in the U.S. reached its minimum in about 1815 at something like 100,000, or 1.4% of the population. By 1815 most of the immigrants that arrived before the American Revolution had passed on, and there had been almost no new immigration.\n\n\nNearly all population growth up to 1830 was by internal increase; about 98.5% of the population was native-born. By 1850, this had shifted to about 90% native-born. The first significant Catholic immigration started in the mid-1840s.\n\nIn 1965, U.S. immigration law changes reduced the emphasis on national origin. Prior policy favored European immigrants. The 1965 law directed that those with relatives in the U.S. or employer sponsorship now had priority. By the 1970s, most immigrants to the U.S. came from Latin America or Asia instead of Europe. Since 2000, over three quarters of all immigrants to the U.S. have come from Asia and Latin America.\n\nIn 1848, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, concluding the Mexican War, extended U.S. citizenship to approximately 60,000 Mexican residents of the New Mexico Territory and 10,000 living in California. However, much like Texas, the Mexican government had encouraged immigration and settlement of these regions from groups in the United States and Europe. Approximately half of this population is estimated to have been of American origin. In 1849, the California Gold Rush spurred significant immigration from Mexico, South America, China, Australia, Europe and caused a mass migration within the US, resulting in California gaining statehood in 1850, with a population of about 90,000.\n\n\"Rural flight\" is the departure of excess populations (usually young men and women) from farm areas. In some cases whole families left, as in the Dust Bowl in the 1930s. Much of rural America has seen steady population decline since 1920.\n\nThe Great Migration was the movement of millions of African Americans out of the rural Southern United States from 1914 to 1960. Most moved to large industrial cities, as well as to many smaller industrial cities.African-Americans moved as individuals or small groups. There was no government assistance. They migrated because of a variety of push and pull factors:\n\n\n\nIn the years after WWII, the United States, as well as a number of other industrialized countries, experienced an unexpected sudden birth rate jump. During WWII birthrates had been low, as millions of men had been away fighting in WWII and this had deterred women from starting families: women also had to take the place of men in the workplace, while simultaneously fulfilling their household duties. The millions of men coming back to the US after WWII, and the couples eager to start families, led to a sharp rise in the US birth rate, and a surge in new housing construction in the suburbs and outlying areas of the cities. Since the men who came back got jobs in the workplace again, married women stayed home to take care of the house and children and let their husbands be the breadwinner of the household.\n\nDuring the baby boom years, between 1946 and 1964, the birth rate doubled for third children and tripled for fourth children.\n\nThe number of children aged 0–4 increased to 16,410,000 in 1950 from 11,000,000 in 1940, it continued into the 1960s where it peaked at 20,000,000 children under the age of 5.\n\nThe number of children under 19 rose to 69 million in 1960 from 51 million in 1950, a 35.3% increase, while the proportion of the population rose to 38.8% up from 33.8% in 1950.\n\nThe total fertility rate of the United States jumped from 2.49 in 1945 to 2.94 in 1946, a rise of 0.45 children therefore beginning the baby boom. It continued to rise throughout the 1940s to reach 3.10 in 1950 with a peak of 3.77 in 1957. Declining slowly thereafter to 3.65 in 1960 and finally a steep from decline after 1964, therefore ending the baby boom.\n\nAccording to statistics, the United States currently has the highest marriage rate in the developed world, as of 2008, with a marriage rate of 7.1 per 1,000 people or 2,162,000 marriages. The average age for first marriage for men is 27.4 and 25.6 years for women. The United States also has one of the highest proportions of people who do marry by age 40; approximately 85% Americans are married at 40, compared to only 60% in Sweden.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the number of marriages and the marriage rate dropped steeply due to the Great Depression, but rebounded almost immediately after the Depression ended. Marriage rates increased and remained at high levels in the late 1930 to the mid-1940s. The number of marriages shot up to reach over 2 million in 1946, with a marriage rate of 16.4 per 1,000 people as WWII had ended. The average age at first marriage for both men and women began to fall after WWII, dropping 22.8 for men and 20.3 for women in 1950 and dropping even more to 22.5 and 20.1 years in 1956. In 1959, the United States Census Bureau estimated that 47% of all brides marrying for their first time were teenagers aged 19 and under. In 1955, 51.2% of women were married by their 20th birthday and 88% by their 25th birthday; 40.3% of men and 28.5% of women aged 20–24 in 1955 had never married, down from 77.8% for men and 57.4% for women in 1940.\n\nAs of 2002, 4.3% of men and 18.1% of women aged 20 are married, increasing to 37% of men and 52% of women by age 25, and then 61% of men and 76% of women by age 30.\n\nThe U.S. population in 1900 was 76 million. In 1950, it rose to 152 million; by 2000 it had reached 282 million. By 2050, it is expected to reach 420 million.\nRichard Easterlin, an economist who has researched economic growth in the United States, explains the growth pattern of American population in the 20th century through fertility rate fluctuations and the decreasing mortality rate. Easterlin has attempted to explain the cause of the Baby Boom and Baby Bust through the \"relative income\" theory. The \"relative income\" theory suggests that couples choose to have children based on a couple's ratio of potential earning power and the desire to obtain material objects. This ratio depends on the economic stability of the country in which they live and how people are raised to value material objects. The \"relative income\" theory explains the Baby Boom by suggesting that the late 1940s and 1950s brought low desires to have material objects, as a result of the Great Depression and WWII, as well as huge job opportunities, because of it being a post war period. These two factors gave rise to a high relative income, which encouraged high fertility. Following this period, the next generation had a greater desire for material objects; however, an economic slowdown in the United States made jobs harder to acquire. This resulted in lower fertility rates, causing the Baby Bust.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1900, the urban population of the United States rose from 28% to 40%, and reached 50% by 1920, in part due to 9,000,000 European immigrants. After 1890 the US rural population began to plummet, as farmers were displaced by mechanization and forced to migrate to urban factory jobs. After World War II, the US experienced a shift away from the cities and into suburbs mostly due to the cost of land, the availability of low cost government home loans, fair housing policies and construction of highways. Many of the original manufacturing cities lost as much as half their populations between 1950 and 1980. There was a shift in the population from the dense city centers filled with apartments, row homes, and tenements; to less dense suburban neighborhoods outside the cities which were filled with single family homes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21319447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21319447", "title": "Digaro languages", "text": "Digaro languages\n\nThe Digaro (Digarish) or Northern Mishmi (Mishmic) languages are a small family of possibly Sino-Tibetan languages spoken by the Mishmi people of southeastern Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh.\n\nThe languages are Idu and Taraon (Digaro, Darang).\n\nThey are not related to the Southern Mishmi Midzu languages, apart from possibly being Sino-Tibetan. However, Blench and Post (2011) suggests that they may not even be Sino-Tibetan, but rather an independent language family of their own.\n\nBlench (2014) classifies the Digaro languages as part of the Greater Siangic group of languages.\n\nAutonyms and exonyms for Digaro-speaking peoples, as well as Miju (Kaman), are given below (Jiang, et al. 2013:2-3).\n\nIdu, Tawra, Kman, and Meyor all share a system of multiple language registers, which are (Blench 2016):\n\n"}
{"id": "1564389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564389", "title": "Dosha", "text": "Dosha\n\nA dosha (, \"doṣa\") is one of three substances that are present in a person's body according to Ayurveda. Beginning with twentieth century literature, there was an idea called \"The Three-Dosha Theory\" (Sanskrit: , \"tridoṣa-upadeśaḥ\"). Authoritative Ayurvedic treatises describe how the quantity and quality of these three substances fluctuate in the body according to the seasons, time of day, diet, and several other factors. Ayurvedic doshas are markedly different from Latin humors.\n\nThe central concept of Ayurvedic medicine is the theory that health exists when there is a balance between the three fundamental bodily bio-elements or doshas called Vata, Pitta, and Kapha.\n\nDoshas are the forces that create the physical body. They determine conditions of growth, aging, health and disease. Typically, one of the three doshas predominates and determines one's constitution or mind-body type. By understanding individual habits, emotional responses, and body type, practitioners can adapt their yoga practice accordingly. The same applies for Ayurveda treatments focused on alleviating any doshic excesses (illness) via powerful herbs and/or through the improvement of general lifestyle practices such as pranayama, meditation and yoga postures.\n\nThere are clear indications when there exists an excess of a dosha, throwing the system off balance. For example, with excess vata, there can be mental, nervous and digestive disorders, including low energy and weakening of all body tissues. With excess pitta, there is toxic blood that gives rise to inflammation and infection. With excess kapha, there is an increase in mucus, weight, edema, and lung disease, etc. The key to managing all doshas is taking care of vata, as it is the origin of the other two.\n\nPrana, Tejas and Ojas\n\nYoga is an alchemical process of balancing and transforming energies of the psyche. At the root of vata, pitta and kapha are its subtle counterparts called prana, tejas and ojas. Unlike the doshas, which in excess create diseases, these promote health, creativity and well-being.\n\n• \"Prana\" is our life force and is the healing energy of vata (air)\n\n• \"Tejas\" is our inner radiance and is the healing energy of pitta (fire)\n\n• \"Ojas\" is the ultimate energy reserve of the body derived from kapha (water)\n\nUltimately, Ayurveda seeks to reduce disease, particularly those that are chronic, and increase positive health in the body and mind via these three vital essences that aid in renewal and transformation. Increased prana cultivates enthusiasm, adaptability and creativity, all of which are necessary when pursuing a spiritual path in yoga and to enable one to perform. Tejas provides courage, fearlessness and insight, which are important when making decisions. Lastly, ojas creates peace, confidence and patience to maintain consistent development and sustain continued effort. Eventually, the most important element to develop is ojas, as it engenders physical and psychological endurance. This can be achieved via Ayurvedic diet, tonic herbs, control of the senses, and devotion.\n"}
{"id": "873633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873633", "title": "Eco-warrior", "text": "Eco-warrior\n\nThe term eco-warrior is a self-description for an environmental activist that adopts a 'hands-on' effort to save a plot of land. In the UK it coined the term in the 1990s, a label that many people actively taking ecological direct action resisted, for philosophical reasons. \n\nA common symbol of an eco-warrior is the Eco Warriors Flag.\n\nAnother use of the term refers to an environmental activist who engages in illegal activities, also known as eco-terrorism. However, an eco-warrior is also someone who utilizes the courts to halt, suspend, or otherwise derail a human activity that the activist believes adversely impacts the environment.\n\nAn eco-warrior can be someone who engages in an environmental organisation (e.g. Greenpeace) or an environmental company that delivers safekeeping or improvements for the environment (e.g. directly by selling environmental products).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48926154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48926154", "title": "Ehsan Ullah Khan", "text": "Ehsan Ullah Khan\n\nMuhammad Ehsan Ullah Khan (born in Gwadar, Balochistan, February 9, 1947) is the founder of the Bonded Labour Liberation Front (BLLF) of Pakistan, an organization that has freed more than 100,000 slaves in its country.\n\nKhan was the founder and president of Brick Kiln Workers Front, and BLLF Global, a human rights organization that opposes slavery and child slavery in Pakistan and South Asia. He is the national coordinator of Global March in Sweden.\n\nIn 1992 he freed Iqbal Masih, who was working in the carpet industry. On April 16, 1995 Iqbal was assassinated. The murder brought to light the work of those who had been denouncing that millions of children all over the world could not attend school because they had become profitable for big corporations that exploited them. Khan was the pioneer on this campaign.\n\nHe has raised slavery issues in the United Nations, through the Working Group for Contemporary Forms of Slavery and in International Labour Organization (ILO). Khan has been a speaker at many Conferences; he has been mentioned in many books, interviewed by a large number of social media, summoned to make a film on Iqbal's life, has been the leader of campaigns and the one who proposed Iqbal for Reebok international award in Boston.\n\nUllah Khan studied journalism at Punjab University, in Lahore. While still a student, he began to organize brick kiln workers so that they rebelled against slavery. \nAfter meeting Babba Kaala he became aware of the drama of slavery in his country. His daughters had been kidnapped by the owner of the kiln on the pretext of not receiving the monthly installment on the debt the old man had incurred.\n\nIn September 1967 he formed Bhatta Mazdor Mahaz (BMM). The BMM was not only organizing actions and demonstrations of different kind against bonded system of labor, but it was also providing legal aid to give basic human rights to the bonded workers at the brick kilns for the first time in the history of South Asia. Forced labor was common among many other groups, like agriculture, carpet making, and mine workers.\n\nIn 1987, he mobilized some workers to present their cause to the Supreme Court of Justice. It was as a result of the pressure exerted by Ehsan and his movement that in 1988 a law declared \"peshgi\" (debt bondage system) illegal.\n\nIt was the BLLF that freed Iqbal from slavery, as well as other 40,000 children in Pakistan, and it was Khan who put the fight against children slavery up for discussion once slavery had been abolished in his country, twenty years after he had started his abolitionist struggle.\nKhan feels that non violence is the best of paths. The importance of the role of children is emphasized in his development strategy, which is that \"the victims should be empowered\". Khan states that \"those children, who get a basic education, knowledge about their rights, and hope for their future, will themselves eliminate the slavery\".\n\nWorking as a journalist, he was arrested many times due to his activities for human rights and the freedom of press. In 1982 he went to jail for six months and kept in confinement in a dark cell in the torture camp of Lahore Fort during Zia ul Haq's decade-long dictatorship from 1978 to 1988. He was arrested and tortured after he had written an article about the genetic development of biological warfare germs in a government-controlled laboratory in Lahore. Because of the torture he lost almost all his hearing from one ear. In an article, he denounced how bonded brick kiln workers had been used as guinea pigs and died due to experiments in a secret research project. The charge against him was high treason, which carried the death penalty.\n\nIn December 1994, he accompanies Iqbal to the United States to receive an International Award in Boston, Massachusetts. They visit Broad Meadows Middle School in Quincy, where after knowing about Iqbal's murder, some students start a campaign to raise money for a School in Pakistan, that eventually was open in February, 1997 with the support of tens of thousands of children from all the 50 states in the United States.\n\nKhan has been in exile in Europe since April 16, 1995, after the murder of Iqbal Masih. Since he was forced to stay in Europe, he founded BLLF Global in 1996, to fight against slavery and child slavery all over the world. Although his intention is to return to Pakistan and continue his work with his organization. He applies for a visa every year at the embassy, but it is repeatedly denied. The sedition case was quashed in Lahore High Court on November 28, 2001, when the judge declared that the case was unlawful and the allegation was false. However, the Pakistani government still does not allow him to return to Pakistan.\n\nAs Kailash Satyarthi, Peace Nobel Prize 2014, said about Ullah Khan, in May 7, 2015:\n\nI am proud to have so many good friends; some of them are just like family members. Ranging from Ehsan Ullah Khan, the great pioneer in the history of the movement against bonded labor and child labor in Pakistan.\n\nIn May 2014 he attended the First International Congress on Combating Unemployment, Exploitation and Slavery, organized by the SAIn political Party (Solidarity, Self-Management and Internationalism) in Spain. The Congress Breaking Chains brought together for four days activists from several organizations that promote the fight against injustice from non-violence. Organized by party SAIn, hosted more than 220 congressmen come from different parts of the Spain and with speakers from four continents. Experiences as Ekta Parishad in India, the Foundation La Alameda in Argentina or the Bonded Labour Liberation Front in Pakistan were very present.\n\nApril 2016 Ehsan had a great presence in the Canary Islands. He gave speeches in many High Schools (Instituto de Jimanar, Instituto La Rocha, Instituto Santa Brígida, Instituto Tomás Morales). Antonio Morales, Gran Canary Cabildo President, held a reception to Ehsan Ullah Khan, at the Cabildo Headquarters. Carmen Hernández, Telde Mayor; The Society of mayors of the North of Gran Canariaheld; Dunia González, Mayor of Santa Lucía held him receptions and also, an Iqbal Masih tribute act with students from the Telde High Schools, at the San Juan park next to the Iqbal Masih monument.\n\nHe participated at the ESPAL (Encuentro de Solidaridad con los Pueblos de África y Latinoamérica-Latin América and Africa People Solidarity Meeting-) activities.\n\nHe had a meeting in May 2018 with Vitoria's Bishop, Juan Carlos Elizalde, who wrote him a recommendation letter to other Bishops, in order to open their Dioceses to his testimony.\n\n"}
{"id": "33710098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33710098", "title": "Environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutant", "text": "Environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutant\n\nThe term Environmental persistent pharmaceutical pollutants (EPPP) was first suggested in the nomination in 2010 of pharmaceuticals and environment as an emerging issue in a Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) by the International Society of Doctors for the Environment (ISDE). The occurring problems from EPPPs are in parallel explained under environmental impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCP). The European Union summarizes pharmaceutical residues with the potential of contamination of water and soil together with other micropollutants under “priority substances”.\n\nPharmaceuticals comprise one of the few groups of chemicals that are specifically designed to act on living cells, which presents a special risk when they enter, persist and disseminate in the environment.\n\nWith exception for downstream sewage treatment plants, the concentration of pharmaceuticals in water is probably extremely low. However, the effect that the chronic exposure to environmental pharmaceuticals chemicals adds to the effects of other chemicals in the cocktail is still not studied. The different chemicals might be potentiating synergistic effects (1+1=3). An extremely sensitive group in this respect are foetuses.\n\nEPPPs are already found in water all over the world. The diffuse exposure might contribute to\n\n\n\nIn Sweden, the industry together with universities and health care sector has developed a method for environmental risk assessment and environmental classification of drugs. Environmental risk refers to the risk of toxicity to the aquatic environment. It is based on the ratio between predicted environmental concentration of the substance (PEC) and the highest concentration of the substance that does not have a harmful effect in the environment (PNEC). \n\nEnvironmental hazard expresses the inherent environmentally damaging characteristics of the substance in terms of persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity. The toxicity tests used are acute toxicity of fish, acute toxicity of Daphnia sp. and growth inhibition test of algae. Most medications on the Swedish market are now classified. This gives the health care possibilities to make better choices when prescribing medicines.\n\nConcentrations in surface waters, groundwater and partially treated water are typically less than 0.1 µg/l (or 100 ng/l), and concentrations in treated water are generally below 0.05 µg/l (or 50 ng/l).(ny 8 WHO) However, all water on the earth is part of the same stable pool, and as larger amounts of pharmaceuticals are consumed, there is a risk that the concentration of pharmaceuticals in drinking water will increase.\n\nPharmaceuticals reach the environment mainly in three ways: \n\nDue to improved measurement methods pharmaceuticals may be detected today in concentrations that probably have been present already for decades but could not be measured before. Many pharmaceuticals are (after consumption) excreted or washed off: investigations have shown excretion rates between 30% and 70% of orally taken substances and even higher rates considering externally applied ointments or gel. \n\nSome pharmaceuticals are degraded to various extents in sewage treatment plants, but others leave the plant in active forms. Active residues of pharmaceuticals have been detected in surface water, and they may persist in the environment for long periods of time. Large amounts of antibiotics and other pharmaceuticals have been found downstream from sewage treatment plants in sub catchments where the discharge of hospital waste water plays a major role or in catchments with pharmaceutical industries. EPPPs from treated sewage sludge used as fertilizer are absorbed by soya, and antibiotics have been found in the leaves.\n\nThere are various pathways how pharmaceutical substances may enter drinking water. Predominantly, drinking water procurement comes from drinking water reservoirs, groundwater and bank filtration. If treated waste water is discharged in catchments with drinking water procurement the not eliminated pharmaceutical substances may be detected in the drinking water. The Netherlands for example gain 37% of their drinking water from surface water, mainly from bank filtration at Rhine and Meuse. Here certain attention is paid to pharmaceutical residues. \n\nIn German drinking water catchments and rivers EPPPs have been detected already, especially radiocontrast agents. Moreover, pharmaceutical residues here partly have their origin in agriculture. An evaluation of the German Federal Environment Agency of regional investigations carried out between 2009 and 2011 showed in total 27 different pharmaceutical substances in concentrations of more than 0.1 microgram per litre in German surface waters and up to 150 substances have been detected in total. Besides the radiocontrast agents especially the painkiller diclofenac showed relevant concentrations. For many micropollutants such as pharmaceuticals no threshold values in drinking water purification or waste water treatment are obligatory by now as the knowledge about effects is lacking or insufficiently proven.\n\nSome of these environmental pharmaceuticals chemicals are well known to have serious genotoxic effects in humans. Half-life in nature varies depending on the environment (air, water, soil, sludge), but is more than one year for several compounds.\n\nConcentrations of EPPPs can vary from 1 ng to 1 mg per litre (2). Serious effects of EPPPs on water-living organisms, especially on reproductive systems, have been already shown, as well as on microbial communities.\n\nThis would be of much less concern if the population were to keep their excrement out of the wastewater via the use of the urine-diverting dry toilet or systems that recycle treated blackwater to flush toilets again indefinitely.\n\n\n\n\nEnvironmental Pharmaceutical Persistent Pollutants, EPPP, have to be looked at in their entirety of the product chain.\nPharmaceutical residues may enter the environment in various phases and therefore the influence or impact regarding environmental effects can be regulated on different levels:\n\n\n\n\n\nPharmaceuticals differ from other anthropogenic chemicals with respect to legal requirements and depending on the countries and cultural frame. Partly they are excluded in laws and regulations which control manufacture, marketing, use, and disposal of other consumer products of a chemical character (solvents, paints, glues etc.). As a consequence the possible negative environmental impact of pharmaceuticals may be less documented, in comparison to other consumer chemicals.\n\nIn the European Union (EU) today more than 3,000 pharmaceutical substances are approved. \nIn 2013 the EU started initiatives to address to the task of pharmaceutical residues in the water cycle. Here the Commission was proposing to add 15 chemicals to the watch list of substances in the Water Framework Directive (WFD) that are monitored and controlled in EU surface waters, including 3 pharmaceuticals (besides industrial chemicals, substances used in biocides and plant protection products): “The contamination of water and soil with pharmaceutical residues is an emerging environmental concern. In evaluating and controlling the risk to, or via, the aquatic environment from medicinal products, adequate attention should be paid to Union environmental objectives. In order to address that concern, the Commission should study the risks of environmental effects from medicinal products and provide an analysis of the relevance and effectiveness of the current legislative framework in protecting the aquatic environment and human health via the aquatic environment.” \n\nThe two hormones estradiol and ethinylestradiol and the painkiller diclofenac are present on the list since 2013 and in 2015 three macrolide antibiotics were added, too.. In 2018, due to \"sufficient high-quality monitoring data are available for the substances tri-allate, oxadiazon, 2,6-ditert-butyl-4-methylphenol and diclofenac, those substances should be removed from the watch list\" and that \"new ecotoxicological information for the macrolide antibiotics clarithromycin and azithromycin, for methiocarb, and for the neonicotinoids imidacloprid, thiacloprid and thiamethoxam, which led it to revise the predicted no-effect concentrations for those substances\". The objective of the implementation of the WFD watch list is to update the available information on the fate of the listed substances in the aquatic environment and consequently, to support a more detailed environmental risk assessment. A preparatory“study on the environmental risks of medicinal products” was commissioned by the Executive Agency for Health and Consumers and published in December 2013. This “BIO IS study” discusses a wide range of legislative and non-legislative “factors of influence” and related possible solutions.\n\nAccording to the 2013 Directive “the Commission shall […until September 2015] develop a strategic approach to pollution of water by pharmaceutical substances. That strategic approach shall, where appropriate, include proposals enabling, to the extent necessary, the environmental impacts of medicines to be taken into account more effectively in the procedure for placing medicinal products on the market. In the framework of that strategic approach, the Commission shall, where appropriate, by 14 September 2017 propose measures to be taken at Union and / or Member State level, as appropriate, to address the possible environmental impacts of pharmaceutical substances […] with a view to reducing discharges, emissions and losses of such substances into the aquatic environment, taking into account public health needs and the cost effectiveness of the measures proposed.” \n\nBeyond the precautionary approach the EU was already aiming at proper disposal practices since 2004. An EU directive for human pharmaceuticals explicitly requires that all member states should establish collection systems for unused or expired medicines. Such systems were already in use in several member states at the time the legislation went into action in 2004. The disposal regulations in the EU member states are still rather different, ranging from recommendations to throw unused or expired pharmaceuticals into the household waste that goes nearly completely to incineration (Germany) with temperatures usually between 900 °C - 1.300 °C to collection systems where leftovers are considered to be “hazardous waste” (Luxembourg). \n\nIn France, the Cyclamed take-back program enables people to bring back unused or expired pharmaceuticals back to the pharmacies. Wrong disposal via sink or toilet and hereby to the wastewater system still seems to be a problem in many EU member states: investigations in Germany showed that up to 24% of liquid pharmaceuticals and 7% of tablets or ointments are disposed always or at least “rarely” via the toilet or sink. \n\nThis is one of the aspects considered in the above-mentioned EU strategic approaches. Moreover, regarding the market authorization for pharmaceuticals approved for marketing in the EU before 2006 the environmental assessment criteria have been different. In case the active substance of a human medicinal product today is assessed to be a hazardous substance or assessed to pose a risk to the environment: no refusal of the product is possible, even though in 2012 about 1,200 pharmaceutical substances were identified to be potentially relevant for an environmental monitoring.\n\nConcentrations in surface water alone are not sufficient to assess the risk of negative environmental effects in the aquatic environment. Synthetic hormones are endocrine disruptors. Thus, estrogenic compounds like ethinylestradiol (estrogen hormone) at concentrations < 1 ng per litre may cause both vitellogenin production (a frequently used index for feminization of male fish), and structural change in their sex organs. It has also been demonstrated that fish exposed to sewage treatment plant (STP) effluent can take up and concentrate estrogenic compounds, including ethinylestradiol, to very high internal levels. These observations on feminization of fish by estrogenic compounds in STP effluents have been observed in many countries, and have also been observed in other species, like frogs, alligators and molluscs.\n\nOther examples of environmental impact in the aquatic environment of human medication concern both cardiovascular and neuro-psychiatric medicines. The non-selective beta-blocking agent Propanolol was found to cause a significant decrease in egg production in Medaka fish, at a concentration close to that demonstrated in the sewage treatment plants (STP) effluents. Gemfibrozil (cholesterol and triglycerides lowering drug) often appears in the effluent from STPs. At concentrations close to those reported in STP effluent, Gemfibrozil lowers the blood levels of testosterone in fish.\n\nSome SSRIs have been shown to accumulate in exposed fish. Citalopram has been detected in liver from wild perch in low µg per kg levels, and fluoxetine affects the serotonin system in the same way that it does in humans. Fluoxetine has also been shown to affect swimming activity in shellfish; whether this is linked to a disturbance of serotonin function in the brain is still unknown.\n\nHigh levels of antibiotics in the water are a cause for alarm as there is an increased risk of selecting resistant bacteria, an issue of global concern. This can lead to some highly effective antibiotics becoming ineffective. There are several examples: In India, bacteria resistant to ciprofloxacin have been found downstream pharmaceutical plants, genes for multi resistance were found in drinking water, and multi resistant Salmonella in water sprayed on vegetables. From Europe we know about the epidemic with multi resistant EHEC in summer 2011, originating from water sprayed vegetables.\n\nThe term \"eco-shadow\" has been introduced to describe the ecological impact of antibiotics. Antibiotics with a wide spectrum that are also stable will have a greater impact on the bacterial flora (a long eco-shadow) than those with a narrow antibacterial spectrum which disintegrates more rapidly (a short eco-shadow).\n\nThe ecological effects of tetracyclines and quinolones have been observed. They are not metabolized in the human body and are therefore excreted unmodified. When entered into the environment they are poorly degraded. They can be toxic to other animals, affecting particularly microorganism and fish. In the effluent from a sewage treatment plant in India, several broad spectrum antibiotics were found in concentrations toxic to bacteria and plants. In the sewage treatment plant itself, there were enterococcae resistant to all known antibiotics.\n\nThe development of resistant bacteria in sewage treatment plants is stimulated by high concentration of antibiotics (e.g. in plant sewage), large amounts of bacteria (e.g. from human sewage water that is added in plant sewage), and selection of Information that can be used to assess the nominated issue have been observed.\n\nEffective environmental detection methods have to be developed and global detection strategy applied to map the current global situation.\n\nThere are currently no test methods to assess whether negative effects may occur after long-term environmental diffuse exposure in humans, during the vulnerable periods of development, on aquatic micro-organism or how it may affect other animals. Therefore, the precautionary principle must be guiding.\n\nConcentrations in surface water alone are not sufficient to assess the risk of negative environmental effects of these synthetic chemicals. Consideration must be taken to bio-accumulation in fish and other aquatic food used by humans, as well as to additive and synergetic effects between pharmaceutical and other chemicals in the contaminated water.\n\nIn a small study, several pharmaceuticals were found in milk of goat, cow and human. More research is needed to find out how common this is, the concentrations and the sources.\n\nThe industry must be invited to actively work on reducing pharmaceuticals in the environment. Emission of pharmaceuticals should be included in GMP.\n\n\nUpdated list of references is found at Swedish Doctors for the Environment (partly in Swedish). The site Pharmaceuticals as pollutants is solely in English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52738509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52738509", "title": "European management", "text": "European management\n\nEuropean management is defined as \"cross-cultural, societal management based on an interdisciplinary approach\" and has three characteristics:\n\n\nOften European management is contrasted to the American or Japanese management culture. While Americans pursue risk more easily, Europeans rather pursue stability leading to less opportunities with fewer financial rewards. The European approach often is considered to be more balanced between economic efficiency and social concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "32566290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32566290", "title": "Fadashi language", "text": "Fadashi language\n\nFadashi is an erstwhile dialect of Berta that is distinct enough to be considered a separate language.\n"}
{"id": "24352448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24352448", "title": "Feedforward (management)", "text": "Feedforward (management)\n\nIn management, feed forward is giving a control impact in a downlink to a subordinate to a person or an organization from which you are expecting an output. A feed forward is not just a pre-feedback, as a feedback is always based on measuring an output and sending respective feedback. A pre-feedback given without measurement of output may be understood as a confirmation or just an acknowledgment of control command.\n\nHowever, a feed forward is generally imposed before any willful change in output may occur. All other changes of output determined with feedback may for example result from distortion, noise or attenuation It usually involves giving a document for review and giving an ex post information on that document which you have not already given.\n\nHowever, social feedback is the response of the supreme hierarch to the subordinate as an acknowledgement of a subordinate's report on output, hence the subordinate's feedback to the supreme.\n\nFeedforward as a management term has been used by Avraham Kluger since 2006 \n\n"}
{"id": "39642230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39642230", "title": "Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties", "text": "Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties\n\nFuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties is a nonfiction book by law professor Christopher M. Fairman about freedom of speech, the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, censorship, and use of the word \"fuck\" in society. The book was first published in 2009 by Sphinx as a follow-up on the author's article \"Fuck\", published in 2007 in the \"Cardozo Law Review\". It cites studies from academics in social science, psychoanalysis, and linguistics. Fairman establishes that most current usages of the word have connotations distinct from its meaning of sexual intercourse. The book discusses the efforts of conservatives in the United States to censor the word from common parlance. The author says that legal precedent regarding its use is unclear because of contradictory court decisions. Fairman argues that once citizens allow the government to restrict the use of specific words, this will lead to an encroachment upon freedom of thought.\n\nThe book received a mostly favorable reception from news sources and library trade publications. \"Library Journal\" described the book as a sincere analysis of the word and its history of censorship, \"\" called it stimulating, and the \"San Diego Law Review\" said it was thought-provoking. One reviewer said that the book, like the article, was a format for the author to repeatedly use \"fuck\", rather than actually analyze it from a rigorous perspective. After the book's release, Fairman was consulted by media sources including CNN and \"The New York Times\", as well as the American Civil Liberties Union, on issues surrounding word taboo in society.\n\nChristopher M. Fairman graduated from the University of Texas at Austin. He taught high-school level history for nine years before returning to his alma mater where he ultimately received his Juris Doctor degree. He worked as a clerk on the Texas Court of Appeals for the Third District for Justice J. Woodfin Jones. Subsequently, he was a clerk on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for Judge Fortunato P. Benavides, and worked for the law firm Weil Gotshal in their office in Dallas. Fairman became a professor at Ohio State University's Moritz College of Law in 2000. He specialized in areas of freedom of speech and word taboo, and earned a reputation as an expert on the subject of legal ethics.\n\nFairman was motivated to conduct research on \"fuck\" after learning of a Columbus, Ohio, man who was arrested for using the word in an email to a judge in 2004. Fairman delayed writing the article until he received tenure because he was concerned its publication would adversely affect his professional reputation. Nevertheless, his supervisors did not try to convince him to cease research into the topic. Government funding helped finance Fairman's scholarship.\n\nHis original 2006 article \"Fuck\" is an analysis of forbidden speech from linguistic and legal perspectives. It covers use of the word in case studies about sexual harassment and education. The article is 74 pages long, and the word \"fuck\" appears over 560 times. According to author Jesse Sheidlower in his book \"The F-Word\", Fairman's work is the first academic article with the title of simply \"Fuck\".\n\nFairman made his article available as a working paper on the Social Science Research Network website on April 17, 2006. Initially the author unsuccessfully tried to have the article published by providing copies to multiple U.S. law reviews. The \"Kansas Law Review\" rejected his article 25 minutes after receipt. It was published by the \"Cardozo Law Review\" in 2007. The author wrote a follow-up piece in April 2007 titled \"Fuck and Law Faculty Rankings\". Fairman died on July 22, 2015. At the time of his death, Fairman's 2007 \"Cardozo Law Review\" article, \"Fuck\" was still classed with the 20 top downloaded works on the Social Science Research Network.\n\n\"Fuck\" cites studies from academics in social science, psychoanalysis, and linguistics. Of the sixteen chapters in the book, eight use the word \"fuck\" in their titles. He discusses uses of the word from the 15th century onwards. Fairman establishes that most current usages have connotations distinct from its denotation of sexual intercourse, and asserts that rather than having sexual meaning, the word's use is most commonly associated with power.\n\nFairman discusses the efforts of conservatives in the United States to censor the word from common parlance in the country, and says these acts are opposed to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Fairman warns against a tendency toward self-censorship. He explains that those who choose to silence themselves tacitly encourage a process by which speech is forbidden through the legal process. He argues that this passivity has an impact of increasing the taboo nature of the word.\n\nFairman writes that legal precedent regarding use of the word is unclear because of contradictory court decisions. He presents case studies of these contradictory applications of the law, and uses them to analyze public perceptions surrounding freedom of speech. He provides examples of exceptions to the First Amendment, such as speech intended to cause violent acts, and discusses the manner in which federal and state governments sanction these exceptions. Fairman draws parallels between protection of comedians' usage of taboo language to the ability of individuals in society to express ideas freely. He argues that once citizens allow the government to restrict specific words that can be used in speech, this will lead to an encroachment upon freedom of thought.\n\n\"Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties\" was first published in 2009 in paperback by Sphinx Publishing, and in an electronic format for the Amazon Kindle the same year. The \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" called Fairman's paper compelling and amusing. \"The Horn Book Magazine\" described the paper as a contemplative scholarly work which was simultaneously an engaging read. In a 2011 article for the \"Federal Communications Law Journal\", W. Wat Hopkins was critical of Fairman's article and subsequent book, writing that both appeared to be formats for the author to repeatedly use the word \"fuck\", rather than actually analyze the subject from a rigorous perspective.\n\nA review of the book in \"Publishers Weekly\" called it a vibrant extension of his article, and described it as educational and assertive in its promotion of freedom of speech, particularly in the face of the controversial language discussed. \"\" reviewed \"Fuck\" and called it a stimulating book. The review concluded, \"[h]ighly recommended. All readership levels.\"\n\n\"Library Journal\" described the book as a sincere analysis of \"fuck\" and its history of censorship. The review characterized the book as of a higher quality than \"The Compleat Motherfucker: A History of the Mother of all Dirty Words\" (2009) by Jim Dawson. Ian Crouch of \"The New Yorker\" praised the cover design for the book. Crouch observed that the word \"Fuck\" was shown partially obscured by correction fluid but was still clearly evident in full. He concluded this was an appropriate image for a book on free speech and word taboo.\n\nAfter the book's publication, Fairman was consulted by media sources, including CNN, on issues involving word taboo. The American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio invited Fairman to host its forum \"Word Taboos\" in 2010; his presentation was titled \"Putting the 'F' in Free Speech\". In a 2012 article on the word \"fuck\", \"The New York Times\" characterized Fairman as the foremost legal scholar in the United States on the word \"fuck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4825613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4825613", "title": "Gulud people", "text": "Gulud people\n\nGulud is an ethnic group in the Nuba Hills in Sudan. They speak Katla, a Kordofanian language. The number of persons in this group is about 10,000. \n\n"}
{"id": "57081068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57081068", "title": "Guosa", "text": "Guosa\n\nwww.guosa-language-tv.com\n\nGuosa is a zonal constructed language originally created by Alex Igbineweka in 1965. It was designed to be a combination of the indigenous languages of Nigeria and to serve as a lingua franca to West Africa.\n\nThough Guosa draws its lexicon from at least 118 indigenous West African languages, it derives the bulk of its vocabulary from Hausa, Yoruba, and Igbo, either taken directly or made from a combination of words from these languages. Additionally, English provides many of the more technical terms, either directly or through one of the aforementioned African languages. Additionally, several words were produced a priori via sound symbolism, e.g. meeh \"sheep\", yanmu-yanmu \"mosquito\", and wuam \"eat\".\n\nThe different parts of speech are often derived from specific languages. Most concrete nouns are derived from Hausa, while verbs and abstracts are derived from Igbo or Yoruba. Additionally, words from all three source languages are often fused to create a word that resembles all three. For example, the Guosa word \"méni\" \"what\" is derived from Hausa \"menini,\" Igbo \"gini,\" and Yoruba \"kini,\" all meaning \"what\". \n\nThe exact phonological values or amount of distinct phonemes in Guosa is unknown. It does, however, have a relatively large consonant inventory, as Guosa adopts several consonants that are featured in only a relatively small number of its source languages.\n\n\nThough Guosa once had the seven vowel system similar to that of Yoruba, the vowels\n/ɛ/ and /ɔ/ have seemingly been merged into their closed counterparts, giving Guosa a five vowel system. Vowels can be either long or short, but the functional load of vowel length appears to be light, however, as very few minimal pairs exist when tone is taken into account. There are nasal vowels written with an ⟨n⟩ following a vowel, though this does not always indicate a nasal vowel. The functional load of these is also light and the vast majority of nasal vowels are short. No two words differ in both the nasality of the vowels and vowel length.\n\nIt is unknown if there are diphthongs in Guosa; all vowels could be pronounced as separate syllables, or several vowels could form diphthongs. The phonology of Yoruba, however, suggests that Guosa vowels do not form diphthongs, as almost all the words with adjacent vowels come from Yoruba, in which all vowels are pronounced separately. \n\nThere are three basic tones in Guosa: high, mid, and low; there are also two contour tones: low-rising and high-falling. Mid is left unmarked and is seemingly the default tone, high is written with an acute ⟨◌́⟩, low with a grave ⟨◌̀⟩. On short vowels the low-rising is written with a caron ⟨◌̌⟩ and high-falling with a circumflex ⟨◌̂⟩. With long vowels, the contour tones are split across the two vowels. With long vowels, the contour tones are written as two separate diacritics.\n\nElision takes place when two of the same vowels would be adjacent, or with certain grammatical particles. For example, when the plural marker é is placed before a word beginning with a vowel: \"é ómóntàkélé\" → \"émóntàkélé\" \"little children\". This elision can be written with an apostrophe when the two vowels are the same: \"ji inang\" → \"ji'nang\" \"twenty four\". It can also be written as an apostrophe when the elision spans two words that are not particles: \"sòngí ìsóngà\" → \"sòngí 'sóngà\" \"sing a song\".\n\nA syllable in Guosa is generally of the form (C)(A)V(C), though more specialized loanwords may have the structure (C)(C)(C)V(C).\n\nThe Guosa alphabet contains 23 single letters, and several digraphs. The letters ⟨q⟩ and ⟨x⟩ are not used, and the letter ⟨c⟩ only appears in the digraph ⟨ch⟩. There used to be two vowel letters that seem to have almost completely disappeared from the current draft of the language: ⟨ẹ⟩ and ⟨ọ⟩. Other than these abandoned letters, diacritics are only used to mark the tone of vowels. The digraph ⟨ng⟩ represents /ᵑg/ word-initially and possibly word-medially, but word-finally it represents /ŋ/\nThe confirmed digraphs are:\n\nGuosa is an isolating language with subject–verb–object word order. Most grammatical meaning is expressed through particles that precede the words they modify, such as \"é\" (plural), \"ng\" (present progressive), \"lá\" (perfective aspect), and \"kà\" (volitive). There are no articles. Adjectives follow the noun. There is no grammatical gender or noun class system. Guosa is generally prepositional. \n\nSome Guosa pronouns, unlike the rest of the words in the language, change depending on whether they are the subject or object. Animacy is not distinguished in pronouns, but plural is, and gender is distinguishable, albeit it is optional and only makes the distinction between female and male/neuter. The following is a known list of pronouns. Some of them are defined ambiguously, so the exact pronouns are unknown.\n\nAn intensive form of the pronoun us created by affixing the suffix \"-wan\". Though possessive is often indicated by simply having the object form of the pronoun follow the noun, the preposition \"nke\" \"of\" can be used to indicate unambiguous possession.\n\nAdjectives and adverbs are not separate classes in Guosa and are jointly called descriptors, following whatever they modify. Some descriptors only act as adjectives or adverbs, however.\n\nIn Guosa there are four regular degrees of comparison. The word \"jù\" \"more\" is used to form a comparative from an adjective: \"rámá\" \"good\" → \"rámá jù\" \"better\". The superlative simply combines the adverb \"khà\" \"very\" with \"jù\": \"rámá jù khà\" \"best\" (lit. very more good). Finally, there is a forth degree of comparison above superlative. Though the superlative might indicate the highest of value in a certain group, the degree indicated by the category higher than the superlative shows that the indicated noun is the absolute best in its entire category; this is done with the \"khàkáa\": \"rubi\" \"bad\" → \"rubi\" \"jù khàkáa\" \"the very worst\".\n\nIn Guosa, all verbs have one form; there is no conjugation. There is a copula, \"wù\", but it is only used with a predicate noun. With predicate adjectives however, \"wù\" is not used, and the adjective behaves more like a verb. Compare the sentences \"mò wù mámbézè\" \"I am a king\" with \"mò rámá\" \"I am well\". \n\nThere are several particles that modify the tense, aspect, and mood of verbs. These particles usually precede the verbs they modify, but the particle lá follows the verb instead.\n\n\n\nThe particle lá is used in a slightly different way, creating an adjective that functions similarity to an active past participle. This form can also take a direct object.\n\n\nGuosa has a base ten number system. The cardinal numerals are:\n\n\"dáyá\" \"one\"\n\n\"ejì\" \"two\"\n\n\"ètá\" \"three\"\n\n\"ìnàng\" \"four\"\n\n\"ìsén\" \"five\"\n\n\"ìsíì\" \"six\"\n\n\"asáà\" \"seven\"\n\n\"asáto\" \"eight\"\n\n\"essé\" \"nine\"\n\n\"góma\" \"ten\"\n\nThe multiples of ten are derived by shortening the first ten numbers.\n\n\"gó \"\"ten, -teen\" (used in the numbers 11–19)\n\n\"jì\" \"twenty\"\n\n\"tá\" \"thirty\"\n\n\"nà\" \"forty\"\n\n\"sén\" \"fifty\"\n\n\"síì\" \"sixty\"\n\n\"sá\" \"seventy\"\n\n\"sát\" \"eighty\"\n\n\"ssé\" \"ninety\"\n\nThe number multiples of one hundred are created by using the reduplicated \"gogo\" root. These numbers are not treated as compounds, unlike the number 11–99.\n\n\"ejì gógó\" \"two hundred\"\n\n\"asáà gógó\" \"seven hundred\"\n\nThe ordinal numbers are formed by using the preposition \"nke\".\n\n\"nke dáyá\" \"first\"\n\n\"nke sáètá\" \"seventy third\"\n\n\"nke\" \"asáà gógó\" \"seven hundredth\"\n\nGuosa uses a couple particles to derive words from others. For example:\n\n\"ò\" - agent, person characterized by the root. In the plural, this is \"è\".\n\n\n\"ì\" - forms both the noun and adjective from a verbal or other noun root:\n\n\nMuch of the word derivation in Guosa is done using just these two particles.\n\n\"bìa kà ‘wá jé àbínchí.\" \n\n'come, let's eat food.'\n\n\"ò chètó ájì ‘wá shìengá la gídá.\" (Note the past tense: \"la\" (shienga la)\n\n'our class monitor has left to go home.'\n\n\"ó shìhé la kófà?\" \n\n'have you opened the door?'\n\n\"báasì, mó shìhé la kófà.\"\n\n'yes, I have opened the door.'\n\n\"bíko, fún mi ní rúwá.\" \n\n'please, give me water'\n\n"}
{"id": "57389048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57389048", "title": "Gwebi College of Agriculture", "text": "Gwebi College of Agriculture\n\nGwebi College of Agriculture is an agricultural college located near Harare, Zimbabwe.\n\nFormal agricultural education in Southern Rhodesia began in 1930, when an agricultural college opened at Matopos. However, it closed after a few years. Gwebi Farm was established by the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland's Ministry of Agriculture in the early 20th-century as an experimental station. In the decades that followed, the farm lapsed in and out of active use. After World War II, Gwebi Farm hosted agricultural courses for ex-servicemen, where they were instructed in skills such as ploughing, herding, and milking. Ian Smith, the future Prime Minister of Rhodesia, attended courses at Gwebi in 1947 and 1948. In 1949, W. L. Fielding arrived in Southern Rhodesia, tasked by the Ministry of Agriculture with establishing an agricultural college at Gwebi. The college would provide two-year diploma courses to ex-servicemen, many of whom had missed out on higher education during the war.\n\nIn February 1950, Gwebi College of Agriculture opened with 24 students. Its campus, located on Sinoia Road outside of Salisbury, was originally used to house pilots training at the nearby Mount Hampden airfield during World War II. The students were 18- and 19-year-old white men, mostly from the colonies of Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia, and Nyasaland, with a few students from the United Kingdom who sought to take up farming in the Federation. Unlike Southern Rhodesia's agricultural school for blacks, Chibero College, where students took three year courses, Gwebi offered two-year diploma courses, because the students generally had some experience in agriculture. The first fully residential institution of higher education in Southern Rhodesia, Gwebi College soon had a significant waiting list. After 15 years, Dr. Fielding left Gwebi in 1965 to take the position of Chair of Agriculture at Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. By the time he left, Gwebi had graduated over 500 students.\n\nIn 1965, Hugh Rodney Mundy became principal of Gwebi College. A former Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford, he was previously an animal husbandry lecturer at Gwebi. As principal, he placed greater emphasis on animal husbandry training, and also frequently umpired at Gwebi cricket matches. He died in 1970, while still in office. In August 1970, Frederick Bernard Rhodes, formerly a lecturer in animal husbandry and vice principal, became Principal of Gwebi College. In 1976, he took a job as project manager at the Keiskammahoek immigration scheme, and stepped down as principal. Hugh John McLean became the fourth Principal of Gwebi College in November 1976. Previously, he was a lecturer in animal husbandry and vice principal since 1970. He served as principal until 1982, when he was replaced by Bob Dunckley. By the late 1970s, Gwebi College had graduated more than 1,000 students. In 1978, the college had 17 instructors and an enrollment of 88 students.\n\nIn October 2013, Gwebi College of Agriculture graduated 131 students. University of Zimbabwe principal Levi Nyagura used his commencement speech to urge the Zimbabwe Ministry of Agriculture, Mechanisation and Irrigation Development to create a bachelor's degree program at Gwebi College. He said,\"Judging by the high standard of the diploma program it will no longer make sense to continue awarding Gwebi graduates a diploma. A Bachelor of Technology degree in agriculture would be more appropriate.\"\n\nGwebi College of Agriculture ran two-year Diploma in Agriculture courses. The courses included both lectures and regular visits to working farms. Students were expected to have experienced at least one year working on a farm before enrolling. To enroll, applicants are required a minimum of five Ordinary levels passes including mathematics, English, language, and science. Gwebi College is affiliated with the University of Zimbabwe.\n\nA 1980 study found that Gwebi students were more motivated by the desire to obtain a diploma than an interest in farming; at Chibero College, these priorities were generally reversed.\n\nGwebi College of Agriculture maintained a cricket team.\n\n\nAlumni are known as Old Gwebians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38315814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38315814", "title": "Hasan ibn Zayd", "text": "Hasan ibn Zayd\n\nAl-Ḥasan ibn Zayd ibn Muḥammad ibn Ismā‘il ibn al-Ḥasan ibn Zayd (; died 6 January 884), also known as al-Da‘ī al-kabīr (, \"the Great/Elder Missionary\"), was an Alid who became the founder of the Zaydid dynasty of Tabaristan.\n\n\"Al-Ḥasan\" was a descendant of Hasan ibn Zayd ibn Hasan, a great-grandson of Ali, the son-in-law of Muhammad and fourth Caliph. In 864, he was living at Rayy in northern Iran, when he was invited by pro-Alid elements in the neighbouring province of Tabaristan to join them in an uprising against the Abbasid authorities.\n\nTabaristan, a mountainous region on the southern shore of the Caspian Sea, had remained largely untouched by the Muslim conquests of the 7th century. Until conquered by the Abbasid Caliphate in 759/60, it had been ruled by a native Persian dynasty, the Dabuyids, and even after the imposition of direct Muslim rule local dynasties retained a large measure of autonomy in the mountainous interior. It was only after 840, when Tabaristan came under Tahirid rule (the Abbasids' viceroys for the East), that the Islamization of the province began. It proceeded rapidly, and although the majority of the people adopted Sunni Islam, the province offered opportunities for the activities of pro-Alid Shi'ite missionaries as well.\n\nIn the 860s, western Iran was governed by the Tahirid Muhammad ibn Abdallah ibn Tahir, whose brother Sulayman ibn Abdallah ibn Tahir deputized him in Tabaristan and Gurgan. Popular resentment of the Tahirids' rule increased through the oppression of their officials, especially their fiscal agents in the province. Consequently, in 864 a rebellion broke out in the towns of Ruyan, Kalar and Chalus, led by two \"sons of Rustam\". The rebels called upon Hasan to lead them, and allied themselves with the neighbouring Daylamites. Hasan, who assumed the regnal name al-Da‘ī ila’l-ḥaqq (\"He who summons to the Truth\"), was recognized as emir by a part of the local population, and even secured the allegiance of the Justanid king of Daylam, Vahsudan ibn Marzuban. \n\nDespite the rapid success of the rebellion, Hasan's reign was troubled due to repeated invasions, and he was several times forced to seek refuge in Daylam. Thus he was chased out of Tabaristan in 865 by Sulayman ibn Abdallah, but returned within the same year and recovered the province. Another Alid uprising occurred in Qazvin and Zanjan in 865, led by Husayn ibn Ahmad al-Kaukabi and aided by the Justanids, but it was suppressed two years later by the Abbasid general Musa ibn Bugha. Hasan was forced into Daylam again by the Abbasid general Muflih in 869, but the latter withdrew shortly after. In 874, Hasan came into conflict with Ya'qub al-Saffar for sheltering one of the latter's enemies, Abdallah al-Sijzi. Ya'qub invaded Tabaristan and defeated the Zaydid forces at Sari, forcing Hasan once again to flee to the mountains of Daylam. Nevertheless, Ya'qub's army soon became bogged down by torrential rainfall and suffered many casualties to disease in the unaccustomed subtropical climate of Tabaristan, forcing him to withdraw from the region shortly after. In the complex struggle for control of Khurasan between Abu Talha Mansur ibn Sharkab and Ahmad ibn Abdallah al-Khujistani, Hasan sided with the former, but was defeated with him in 878/879, when al-Khujistani recovered Nishapur. Exploiting the turmoils of the period, from 867 Hasan also usually controlled Gurgan to the east, and expanded his control temporarily over some neighbouring regions as well: Rayy (864–865, 867, 870 and 872), Qazvin (865–868) and Qumis (873–879).\n\nHasan died at Amul in 884, and was succeeded by his brother Muhammad ibn Zayd. The Zaydids continued to rule Tabaristan until 928. Historians praised him as a just and equitable ruler, but outside the early strongholds of Ruyan and Kalar, the initial enthusiasm for his rule seems to have waned quickly among the broad populace of Tabaristan and Gurgan. This was a result of both his ardent enforcement of Shi'ism and repression of the Sunni majority, as well as his regime's reliance on the semi-barbarous Daylamite soldiery. Relations with the autonomous local Iranian rulers also varied: the Qarinids, who ruled the western mountains of Tabaristan, supported Hasan, but the Bavandids in the eastern mountains were usually hostile, and relations with the Justanid Vahsudan and his son and successor Khurshid also turned hostile. In the event, Hasan managed to have the latter replaced by his brother Justan, who once again loyally supported the Zaydid ruler. The Orientalist Frants Buhl assesses Hasan's character thus: he \"possessed rare energy and the capacity for stubborn resistance, was a sincerely religious man, well educated, and a patron of letters\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41850509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41850509", "title": "Ibrahim Jalti affair", "text": "Ibrahim Jalti affair\n\nIbrahim or Brahim Jalti was a sergeant at the Royal Moroccan Army who, along with another soldier Jamal Zaim, denounced corruption in the army. \nThey reported that high-ranking officials were employing soldiers in their own private farms. Ibrahim Jalti wanted to show the evidence directly to Mohammed VI and in 2002 took hostages demanding to meet the king. He was arrested and sentenced to 9 years in prison and the corruption evidence documents he had prepared were destroyed.\n\nIn January 2014 Jalti, who is from Oujda, started a sit-in near the Algerian border and published a document in which he denounces the corruption of officials from the army involved in cross-border smuggling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2249461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2249461", "title": "Irish clans", "text": "Irish clans\n\nIrish clans are traditional kinship groups sharing a common surname and heritage and existing in a lineage based society prior to the 17th century.\n\nThe Irish word \"clann\" is a borrowing from the Latin \"planta\", meaning a plant, an offshoot, offspring, a single child or children, by extension race or descendants. For instance the O'Daly family were poetically known as \"Clann Dalaigh\", from a remote ancestor called Dalach.\n\nClann was used in the later Middle Ages to provide a plural for surnames beginning with \"Mac\" meaning \"Son of\". For example, \"Clann Cárthaigh\" meant the men of the MacCarthy family and \"Clann Suibhne\" meant the men of the MacSweeny family. Clann was also used to denote a subgroup within a wider surname, the descendants of a recent common ancestor, such as the \"Clann Aodha Buidhe\" or the \"O'Neills\" of Clandeboy, whose ancestor was Aodh Buidhe who died in 1298. Such a 'clan', if sufficiently closely related, could have common interests in landownership, but any political power wielded by their chief was territorially based.\n\nFrom ancient times Irish society was organised around traditional kinship groups or clans. These clans traced their origins to larger pre-surname population groupings or clans such as Uí Briúin in Connacht, Eóghanachta and Dál gCais in Munster, Uí Neill in Ulster, and Fir Domnann in Leinster. Within these larger groupings there tended to be one \"sept\" (division) who through war and politics became more powerful than others for a period of time and the leaders of some were accorded the status of royalty in Gaelic Ireland. Some of the more important septs to achieve this power were Ó Conor in Connacht, MacCarthy of Desmond and Ó Brien of Thomond in Munster, Ó Neill of Clandeboy in Ulster and MacMorrough Kavanagh in Leinster.\n\nThe largely symbolic role of High King of Ireland tended to rotate among the leaders of these royal clans. The larger or more important clans were led by a Taoiseach or Chief who had the status of royalty and the smaller and more dependent clans were led by Chieftains. Under Brehon Law the leaders of Irish clans were appointed by their kinsmen as custodians of the clan and were responsible for maintaining and protecting their clan and its property. The clan system formed the basis of society up to the 17th century.\n\nScholars sometimes disagree about whether it is better to use the terms \"sept\" or \"clan\" when referring to traditional Irish family groups. Historically, the term 'sept' was not used in Ireland until the nineteenth century, long after any notion of clanship had been eradicated. It is often argued that the English word 'sept' is most accurate referring to a sub-group within a large clan, especially when that group has taken up residence outside of their clan's original territory (O'Neill, MacSweeney, and O'Connor are examples). Related Irish septs and clans often belong to larger groups, sometimes called tribes, such as the Dál gCais, Uí Néill, Uí Fiachrach, and Uí Maine. Recently, the late Edward MacLysaght suggested the English word 'sept' be used in place of the word 'clan' with regards to the historical social structure in Ireland, so as to differentiate it from the centralised Scottish clan system.[1] This would imply that Ireland possessed no formalised clan system, which is not wholly accurate. Brehon Law, the ancient legal system of Ireland clearly defined the clan system in pre-Norman Ireland, which collapsed after the Tudor Conquest. The Irish, when speaking of themselves, employed their term 'clan' which means \"family\" in Irish.\n\nIn the 16th century English common law was introduced throughout Ireland, along with a centralised royal administration in which the county and the sheriff replaced the 'country' and the Clan Chief.\n\nWhen the Kingdom of Ireland was created in 1541, the Dublin administration wanted to involve the Gaelic chiefs into the new entity, creating new titles for them such as the Earl of Tyrone, or Baron Inchiquin. In the process they were granted new coats of arms from 1552. The associated policy of surrender and regrant involved a change to succession to a title by the European system of primogeniture, and not by the Irish tanistry, where a group of male cousins of a chief were eligible to succeed by election. This change to the inheritance system was also taken up by the Scottish clans in the 17th and 18th centuries. .\n\nThe early 17th century was a watershed in Ireland. It marked the destruction of Ireland's ancient Gaelic aristocracy following the Tudor re-conquest and cleared the way for the Plantation of Ulster. In 1607 the senior Gaelic Chiefs of Ulster left Ireland to recruit support in Spain but failed, and instead eventually arrived in Rome where they remained for the rest of their lives (See: Flight of the Earls). After this point, the English authorities in Dublin established real control over all of Ireland for the first time, bringing a centralised government to the entire island, and successfully disarmed the native clans and their lordships.\n\nHowever, despite the loss of their traditional lands and forced emigration into the service of Catholic monarchs across Europe, the spirit of the Irish clans remained. The growing influence of the Gaelic League at the turn of the 20th century rekindled an interest in Gaelic culture and prompted a cultural revival.\n\nIn the 1940s Edward MacLysaght, the Chief Herald of Ireland, drew up a list of over 240 Irish clans. The first modern Irish \"clans\" were reformed in the latter half of the 20th century. Today such groups are organised in Ireland and in every continent around the world.\n\nIn 1989 an independent organisation, Clans of Ireland, was formed under the leadership of Rory O'Connor, Chieftain of the \"O'Connor Kerry Clan\", with the purpose of creating and maintaining a Register of Clans. A Register of Irish Clans can be consulted on its website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32567736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32567736", "title": "Kuria language", "text": "Kuria language\n\nKuria is spoken by the Kuria peoples of Northern Tanzania, with some speakers also residing in Kenya.\n\nMaho (2009) treats the Simbiti, Hacha, Surwa, and Sweta varieties as distinct languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "5144907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5144907", "title": "Lillian Smith (trick shooter)", "text": "Lillian Smith (trick shooter)\n\nLillian Frances Smith (August 4, 1871 – February 3, 1930) was a young trick shooter and trick rider who joined Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show in 1886, at the age of fifteen. She was billed as \"the champion California huntress,\" and was a direct rival to Annie Oakley in the show.\n\nLillian Frances Smith was born in 1871 in Coleville, California to Levi Woodbury Smith, Jr. and Rebecca T. Robinson, the third of four children. Her parents were originally from Massachusetts and moved to Coleville in 1867. Smith began shooting at the age of 7 and was already competing by the age of 10. In 1886, at the age of 15, she joined Buffalo Bill Cody's Wild West Show, where she met her rival, Annie Oakley. Apparently, Smith and Oakley were never on very friendly terms; Smith was a braggart and at one point declared \"Annie Oakley was done for.\" Moreover, in contrast to Annie, who was an extremely conservative dresser, Lillian enjoyed flashy clothing and had a reputation as a \"shameless flirt.\" Both Smith and Oakley traveled to Great Britain with the Wild West Show and met Queen Victoria in 1887. Smith's poor performance at the annual Wimbledon rifle competition (as opposed to Oakley's favorable performance) brought mocking coverage by both the British and American press. A friend of Smith attempted to reverse the roles of Smith and Oakley in his recounting of the competition (and London's reception), but the claims received public responses by reputable sources. Smith left the show in 1889 (when Oakley returned to it).\n\nIn 1907, Smith moved permanently to Oklahoma and became a fixture with the Miller Brothers 101 Ranch Wild West Show, performing as \"Princess Wenona\", a fictionalized Sioux princess. However, she continued to perform in other shows like Pawnee Bill's. After another 13 years as a record-setting sharpshooter and performer, Smith retired around 1920 and died in 1930 in Ponca City, Oklahoma, the home town of the 101 Ranch. She is buried at Odd Fellows Cemetery in Ponca City. Her grave was unmarked until a monumental headstone was placed there in 1999 by the 101 Ranch Old Timers Association. Another source mentions there was a small headstone with the name \"P. Wenona\" buried under the grass over time since her interment.\n\nSmith was married at least five times throughout her life. The order of her husbands have differed between sources. All of her marriages ended in divorce. She did not have any children.\n\nAlthough Smith's headstone has her birthdate being February 3, 1871, it is most likely incorrect and placed there for posthumous flair as it gives the coincidence of death being on her 59th birthday. One source has Smith possibly born in August 1871 or 1872 depending on newspapers. Other sources have her being born in the autumn months of 1871, including one from Buffalo Bill's Wild West Company. According to a recently released biography on Smith by author Julia Bricklin, she was born on August 4, 1871, which would coincide with the time period of the previously mentioned sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27944460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27944460", "title": "List of Kim Jong-il's titles", "text": "List of Kim Jong-il's titles\n\nWhen Kim Jong-il, former leader of North Korea, is mentioned in North Korean media and publications, he is not simply addressed by name. At least one special title is used, and his name is emphasised by a special bold font, for example: \"The great leader Comrade Kim Jong-il provides on-the-spot guidance to the Ragwon Machine Complex.\" Alternatively, a larger than normal font may be used. (Example: \"The great leader Comrade Kim Jong-il provides on-the-spot guidance to the Ragwon Machine Complex.\") The titles themselves were developed by the Central Committee of the Workers' Party. The same applies to Kim Jong-il's father, Kim Il-sung, who ruled North Korea from 1948 to 1994. Scholars have collected the following list of Kim Jong-il’s titles.\n"}
{"id": "2831368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831368", "title": "Ljiljan", "text": "Ljiljan\n\nLjiljan was a Bosnian weekly news-political and cultural news magazine. It was founded by the Party of Democratic Action (SDA) () in 1990 as a successor to \"Muslimanski Glas\" (Muslims' Voice), the official bulletin of the party. With the name change it obtained a formal editorial independence, though it still reflected conservative Bosniak political positions, close to the SDA party. For instance, as reported by Tanja Petrovic, Ljiljan opposed mixed marriages between Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs, deeming them an imposition from the Socialist times.\n\nIt was published in Sarajevo and distributed in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and abroad.<ref name=\"Biggins/Crayne\">Michael Biggins,Janet Crayne, \"Publishing in Yugoslavia's Successor States\", Psychology Press, 2000, p. 59</ref>\nCirculation was of 60,000 copies, of which 85% abroad.\n\nThe golden Bosnian lily is also considered the national symbol of the Bosniak people (Bosnian Muslims), one of three constitutive ethnic groups in Bosnia, the other two being Serbs and Croats.\n"}
{"id": "4891282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4891282", "title": "Logo people", "text": "Logo people\n\nThe Logo people or Logoa (plural) are an ethnic group of Nilotic origin who traditionally live in the north-east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, western Uganda, and southern South Sudan. There are believed to be more than 200,000 people who identify as ethnically Logo of whom most live in the Congo's Faradje Territory, a remote region in Haut-Uele Province, where they form the ethnic majority. Logo people also live in Watsa and Aba, both also in Haut-Uele, and in Yei in South Sudan.\n\nThe ethnic group is traditionally associated with the Logo language, known as \"Logoti\", from the Nilo-Saharan family. The language has an estimated 210,000 speakers. A further 100,000 speak the related dialect known as \"Ogambi\". Logoti is similar in derivation to the Nilotic Kaliko, Bari and Lugbara languages spoken in the same region. The word \"logo\" means \"human being\" in the local language.\n\nHistorically, the Logoa were less powerful than the important Mangbetu and Azande ethnic groups in the same region. Originating in the Sudan, the Logoa were progressively pushed southwards into their current territories around Faradje by rival ethnic groups and especially expanding Azande influence in the 19th century. Their remote location within the Congo meant that they were however able to avoid becoming subject peoples. The Logoa are divided into a number of tribal units and do not form a single polity. According to anthropologist Jan Vansina, the territory controlled by the Logoa and the Avukaya forms a distinct geographic unit.\n"}
{"id": "18120952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18120952", "title": "Maghfoor Mansoor", "text": "Maghfoor Mansoor\n\nMaghfoor Mansoor (March 9, 1966 - May 11, 2001) was a Pakistani native who was a cab driver and tour guide and a former fugitive in the United States who had been on the FBI 10 Most Wanted Fugitives list. During his crime rampage, he had committed a variety of criminal acts in several U.S. states, including sexual assault, robbery, and carjacking, and he caused the death of one person in a hit and run accident while attempting to flee law enforcement. His spree ended on May 11, 2001 in a New York hotel when he was shot to death by law enforcement agents.\n\nIt was believed that compulsive gambling was his motivation for his life of crime as he became desperate to obtain money for additional gambling.\n\nIn 2002, the story of Mansoor's life of crime was aired on The FBI Files, in an episode titled \"High Stakes.\"\n\nMansoor was either convicted of or wanted for the following crimes:\n\nDuring a national manhunt for Mansoor, he was difficult to catch or identify. He had used a large number of aliases and disguises, making the determination of his identity or nationality a challenge for law enforcement.\n"}
{"id": "17559371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17559371", "title": "Michael Clemente", "text": "Michael Clemente\n\nMichael Clemente (August 29, 1908 – December 1987), also known as \"Mike Costello\" and \"Big Mike\", was a New York mobster with the Genovese crime family who became a major force in controlling the East River waterfront of Manhattan from the 1940s to 1979. Piers 36 and 42 were his principle territory. He took over Joe \"Socks\" Lanza's waterfront rackets at the Fulton Fish Market on the East River when Lanza went to prison for 7 1/2 years in 1943 for extortion. Clemente was a lieutenant for Lanza.\nBorn in New York City, Clemente lived in Brooklyn. He married Josephine Tresonte and was the father of three daughters. His official jobs included labor organizer, secretary, and business agent for Manhattan Local 856 of the International Longshoremen's Association (ILA). Clemente's criminal record included rape, assault, disorderly conduct, extortion, conspiracy to violate federal liquor laws, and perjury.\n\nA lieutenant of mobster Rocco Pellegrino, Clemente used his power at the waterfront to extort money from shipping companies and the companies that loaded and unloaded cargo. At one point, the president of a company managing stevedores paid Clemente $11,000 for one of his daughter's weddings. In 1953, Clemente was convicted of extortion, removed from office at the ILA local, and sent to prison for five years. After his release, he exercised control at the ILA through his surrogates. \n\nIn 1977, the government gained the cooperation of William Montella, a shipping company employee, and planted undercover surveillance devices in his office. Over the next two years, law enforcement recorded meetings there in which Clemente received payments from Montella. In 1979, Clemente was convicted on Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) charges including extortion and tax evasion and was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison. \n\nOn February 21, 1987, Clemente was released from prison. Clemente died in December 1987.\n\nClemente was reportedly the inspiration for the character of waterfront boss \"Johnny Friendly\", played by Lee J. Cobb, in the 1954 film \"On the Waterfront\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21458838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21458838", "title": "Min Chinese speakers", "text": "Min Chinese speakers\n\nMin-speaking peoples () are a major subgroup of the Han Chinese (also known as the ethnic Chinese). They are a Min Chinese-speaking people that mainly live in Fujian, Hainan, southern Zhejiang, and Guangdong province's Leizhou and Chaoshan regions. In the Chinese diaspora, they form the majority of people in Taiwan and the majority of Han Chinese in Southeast Asia including countries such as Singapore, Indonesia, Brunei, Philippines, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand, and Cambodia. The latter two countries are Teochew-speaking.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40965526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40965526", "title": "Omani Sign Language", "text": "Omani Sign Language\n\nSign language is used by at least some of the deaf population of Oman. It is not clear if there is a single language across the country, or if it is distinct from the sign language of neighboring countries. Authorities providing training to the police for sign translators speak only of \"Arabic Sign Language\".\n\nThe Royal Oman Police has provided interpreters to all units.\n"}
{"id": "28881609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28881609", "title": "Prome Kingdom", "text": "Prome Kingdom\n\nThe Prome Kingdom () was a kingdom that existed for six decades between 1482 and 1542 in present-day central Burma (Myanmar). Based out of the city of Prome (Pyay), the minor kingdom was one of the several statelets that broke away from the dominant Ava Kingdom in the late 15th century. Throughout the 1520s, Prome was an ally of the Confederation of Shan States, and together they raided Avan territory. After Ava fell to the Confederation armies in 1527, Prome itself became a tributary of the Confederation in 1532. In the late 1530s, Prome became ensnarled in the Toungoo–Hanthawaddy War (1534–41). Despite military assistance from the Confederation and the Mrauk U Kingdom, the small kingdom fell to the Toungoo (Taungoo) forces in 1542.\n\nFor much of the first half of the second millennium, Prome was a vassal state of Upper Burma-based kingdoms–Pagan, Pinya and Ava. During the Ava period (14th–15th centuries), Prome was the southernmost region abutting the rival Hanthawaddy Kingdom. The region was a frequent battlefield during the Forty Years' War (1385–1424) between Ava and Hanthawaddy. Avan kings considered the region the most strategic, and appointed only the most senior princes as viceroys of Prome (Pyay). For example, Crown Prince Minye Kyawswa, King Thihathu of Ava and King Narapati of Ava were once governor of Prome.\n\nThe Forty Years' War, which ended in a stalemate, left Ava exhausted, and its vassals restless. From the 1420s to the 1480s, each new king of Ava had to put down rebellions. In 1469, Prome's long-time governor, Mingyi Swa (r. 1446–1482) rebelled against his brother, when the latter ascended to the Ava throne as Thihathura. But the new king laid siege on Prome, and Mingyi Swa submitted to his brother. Mingyi Swa was forgiven, and reappointed to his former position.\n\nThihathura died in 1480, and Mingyi Swa died in 1482. The new king Minkhaung II faced a multitude of rebellions–the most serious one by his younger brother, Gov. Minye Kyawswa of Yamethin. Unlike the usual unrest in remote regions, the Yamethin rebellion was so close to Ava itself, and was a grave threat to the new king. Taking advantage of the power struggle between his two nephews, the governor of Tharrawaddy, Thado Minsaw, seized Prome and declared himself king.\n\nThado Minsaw raised his brother Mingyi Swa's chief queen as his chief queen. Minkhaung managed to send an army to reclaim Prome. But the Avan army could not take Prome, and retreated. Ava could not send another force again as the much more serious Yamethin rebellion (and rebellions by the Shan States of Mohnyin and Kale) consumed its resources for the next two decades. Prome became an independent kingdom with territories up to Tharrawaddy and Myede.\n\nThado Minsaw largely stayed out of the fighting in Upper Burma. He forged a peaceful relationship with Hanthawaddy, the most powerful kingdom in the region.\n\nThado Minsaw changed his policy in the 1520s when Ava was on its last legs suffering from the sustained assaults by Confederation of Shan States. He entered into a league with Sawlon, the confederation's leader. In March 1525, the combined armies of Confederation and Prome sacked the city of Ava. The king of Ava, Shwenankyawshin, who was Thado Minsaw's grandnephew, escaped. Prome and Confederation forces looted the city. The Prome armies brought back the famed poet monk Shin Maha Rattathara. Prome remained in a league with the Confederation, which continued its attacks on Ava.\n\nThado Minsaw died in 1526, and was succeeded by his son Bayin Htwe.\n\nOn 25 March 1527, the Confederation forces captured Ava, and placed Sawlon's eldest son Thohanbwa on the Ava throne. Sawlon was unsatisfied with the level of support he received from Prome, and held a grudge. In 1532, the Confederation forces came down and attacked Prome. Bayin Htwe was taken prisoner back to Upper Burma. The captive king escaped after Sawlon was assassinated by his own ministers. But Bayin Htwe's son Narapati shut the gates against his father. Bayin Htwe died soon after in the adjoining forests.\n\nNarapati remained a nominal vassal to Confederation controlled Ava. Although his authority did not extend beyond the immediate region around Prome, he became ensnarled in the Toungoo–Hanthawaddy War (1534–41). Narapati was an ally of King Takayutpi of Hanthawaddy, and was married to Takayutpi's sister. Narapati provided shelter to the fleeing Hanthawaddy troops in 1539. When Toungoo troops attacked a heavily fortified Prome, Narapati asked for help from the Confederation in Ava. The Confederation troops broke the siege, and refused to follow up on the retreating Toungoo armies.\n\nNarapati formed an alliance with Mrauk U Kingdom of Arakan by sending his sister and his queen (Takayutpi's sister) to King Min Bin of Mrauk U. (Takayutpi had died soon after the battle.) Narapati too died soon after and was succeeded by Minkhaung.\n\nIn late 1541, Toungoo again laid siege to Prome. Prome's allies the Confederation and Mrauk U sent in help to break the siege. But Toungoo forces under the command of Gen. Bayinnaung defeated both armies. Mrauk U also sent in a naval flotilla that landed in Bassein (Pathein). Upon hearing of the Mrauk U army's defeat, the flotilla turned back. After a five months' siege, starvation set in. The besieged deserted the city in great numbers. On 19 May 1542 (5th waxing of Nayon 904 ME), Minkhaung surrendered. Minkhaung and his queen Thiri Hponhtut were taken to Toungoo (Taungoo).\n\nKing Tabinshwehti of Toungoo appointed Thado Dhamma Yazaya I, restoring the city to its former position of a provincial capital. Thado Dhamma Yazaya I revolted in May 1550 after Tabinshwehti's death but the revolt was put down in August 1551 by Bayinnaung. The principality was again in revolt between 1594 and 1608, during the collapse of First Toungoo Empire before being re-annexed by King Anaukpetlun in July 1608.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44734132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44734132", "title": "Salinas Lettuce strike of 1934", "text": "Salinas Lettuce strike of 1934\n\nThe Salinas Lettuce strike of 1934 ran from August 27 to September 24, 1934, in the Salinas Valley of California. This strike of lettuce cutters and shed workers was begun and largely maintained by the recently formed Filipino Labor Union and came to highlight ethnic discrimination and union repression. Acts of violence from both frustrated workers and vigilante bands threatened the strike's integrity and support base. Ultimately, the strike came to a close and an agreement was reached that gave limited satisfaction to the growers and the workers.\n\nIn 1898, the United States of America took over colonial possession of the Philippines from Spain. The Filipinos, now under an American operated school system, became infatuated with the idea of the United States as a place of opportunity for them. The decline in the labor market, beginning in 1882 with the Exclusion Act and extending further with the Asian Exclusion Act statute of the Immigration Act of 1924, demanded a new source of cheap labor. As U.S. nationals, the Filipinos were exempt from immigration laws that kept most other Asians, namely the Chinese and Japanese, out and they began flooding in to fill the void. Most of these immigrants were single men with limited education, usually high school, between the ages of 18 and 25. Many of these young men sought to work part-time while also earning an education in hopes of achieving the American Dream like so many immigrants before them.\n\nHowever, the Filipino workers quickly realized they were being involved in a dual labor system, one in which they were hired for the least desirable jobs and heavily discriminated against. Many were forced into the fields and canneries along the West Coast. Additionally, laws were affected to forbid Filipino women from immigrating to the United States and in some rural cities it was considered a crime for Filipino men to consort with women. Many bosses had hoped to keep expenses lower in employing a more flexible workforce of bachelors. The discontent among Filipinos became aggravated even further with the coming of the Great Depression, which caused competition for jobs to become even more difficult due to the influx of displaced white workers coming from the Dust Bowl region in search of work. Those lucky enough to find work were met with steep wage cuts.\n\nDifficulties in receiving fair wages or working conditions and the desire to combat discrimination were some of the earliest reasons Filipinos began to demand union representation. Labor organizing often fell to labor contractors, middleman between the growers and the workers. While some of these contractors exploited the Filipinos and drove wages down lower, others were instrumental in the creation of unions. By 1935, there were seven individual Filipino labor unions along the West Coast, one of whom was the Filipino Labor Union (FLU).\n\nThe Filipino Labor Union was first organized in Salinas, California in 1933 and was founded by D. L. Marcuelo, a businessman from Stockton, California. As president of the Filipino Businessmen’s Protective Association in 1930, Marcuelo urged labor contractors and workers to unite in action or else be replaced by cheaper labor. Thus, the first leaders of the FLU were labor contractors who worked with the rank-and-file members to develop the union’s organization. There was no formal constitution for the union, nor did they hold formal elections for leadership positions. Democratic elements did exist, however, in that the workers were able to choose strike committees and impact union office elections through campaigns. In the start of 1933, Union membership was approximately 2,000 members and grew to approximately 4,000 by 1934. While membership was impressive, the FLU was not necessarily always successful due to the escalating fears of ethnic radicalism.\n\nThe fledgling FLU tested its strength in calling for a strike against local growers for better wages in August 1933. While a strong 700 members engaged in the one-day protest, it was broken when Mexican, White, and other Asian laborers came to replace the Filipinos. This protest highlighted the issue of ethnic disunity in the Salinas region and the powerlessness of isolated unions to act effectively. However, these complications were lessened with the passage of the National Industrial Recovery Act. Containing a clause on collective bargaining, this New Deal legislation demanded the recognition of all authorized unions. Prior to this, the American Federation of Labor (AFL) had frowned upon cooperating with the FLU and other ethnic unions, seeing them as a threat to their image. With the passage of this act and the validation of the FLU, the local AFL affiliate in Salinas, the Vegetable Packers Association (VPA) declared that they would collaborate with the FLU to progress workers rights. As a collective, the VPA and FLU saw an opportunity to force the local growers into bargaining. On 27 August 1934, they began the Salinas lettuce strike with a coalition of primarily white and Filipino workers in Monterey County. Of the approximately 7,000 workers who became involved in the strike, almost half were Filipinos.\n\nThe key aim of the FLU in the strike was to be recognized by employers as a bona fide union a wage increase from 40 to 55 cents an hours, which was lauded as preposterous by the growers who argued they should only be paying 30 cents given the supply of labor. Both parties were firm in their beliefs, and when it came time for proposed mediations, the increasingly frustrated FLU refused. As a result, on 1 September 1934, Joe Carey, an AFL representative, stated that the FLU needed to respect and experienced leadership of the AFL or continue the strike alone. Insulted, the Filipino leaders moved to continue the strike without their recently gained support network. With this return to independence, riots began to unfold.\n\nAs Monterey County had no anti-picketing measures, the FLU organized demonstrations that often affected the productivity of growers and packing sheds. These actions led to increased acts of violence against Filipinos. Reports of mobs attacking Filipino workers became more common, and police often arrested FLU leadership, such as president D. L. Marcuelo, for encouraging pickets. Despite the union’s stance against violence, Filipinos begin to fight back and the situation worsened. Racial tensions raged as the strike continued and the media became increasingly hostile toward the Filipinos and their sympathizers. Newspapers would reflect the hostilities with negativity and place the blame on the stubborn and aggressive FLU. This negative sentiment was furthered when the VPA publicly spoke out against he FLU and the AFL criticized the leadership for advocating violence. Even local branches within the FLU began to turn their backs to union solidarity and discontinue participation in the strike. Regardless, the FLU begrudgingly remained committed to a lengthy strike. They were spurred and motivated by increasingly influential leadership, such as in one of the founders of the union named Rufo Canete. He was a labor contractor from Salinas who encouraged adhering to the strike and adapting pickets to drive by fields in vehicles.\n\nDespite the increased surge in able-bodied leadership membership in the FLU began to decline even further, especially after the VPA began to send members back to work. With the FLU holding tight as the last group to continue the strike, packs of organized vigilantes grew extremely violent. They would beat Filipino men walking on the streets and, armed with their guns, would chase picketers away from sheds and fields. Vigilante activity spread beyond Salinas itself, moving to surrounding agricultural areas in a series of riots on September 10–11. The police forces had remained neutral until growers ordered them to act against the FLU members for violating the Criminal syndicalism laws that prohibited the advocating of any change to economic or political systems. Salinas Police forces and the local Highway Patrol began to arrest Filipinos in excess, targeting leaders and organizers most heavily. Frustrations amongst Filipinos grew and grew, and it often worked its way out in the beating of fellow Filipinos who crossed the strike lines. Tensions soared and the mob mentality for both local thugs and Filipinos workers became dominating.\n\nThe escalating violence reached its climax on September 21, 1934. Rufo Canete was reappointed as the FLU’s president, and hopes once again arose, as he was a respected leader and friend to many white businessmen and citizens. He organized a strike committee to oversee the strike stayed on course and announced a day of Unity with an agreement between the Filipinos and the Mexican Labor Union. Fear among growers returned, as a merge between the two largest ethnic groups in the area would have a devastating effect on their labor pool. So the next night, a large mob of vigilantes raided and burned down Canete’s labor camp, a key organizational center for the FLU and home to hundreds of Filipino workers. Immediately after the burning of the camp, vigilante groups drove approximately 800 Filipinos from the Salinas Valley at gunpoint. Following this sequence of events, Canete saw the extent to which the mob climate posed a danger to Filipino workers. On Monday September 24, 1934, the strike officially ended under advisement by Canete and approval by the FLU strike committee.\n\nWithin two days of the strike’s closure, Filipino workers returned once more to the lettuce fields and packing sheds. Settlement was reached after negotiating with the growers, and awarded the FLU two of their main demands. There was to be a wage increase to 40 cents an hour, and the FLU was to be recognized as a legitimate union for farm workers. However, the victory was a hollow one for the FLU itself. All of the violence that had occurred through the course of the strike was attributed to the stubbornness and refusal of the union to negotiate. Ethnic tensions and discrimination continued in the Salinas region, and beliefs in the aggressiveness of minorities were reinforced in the minds of many locals. Moreover, many dissatisfied members of the FLU left the union and joined rival unions and contractors instead.\nThe 1934 Lettuce Strike is often remembered by its use of violence and intimidation tactics. However, it also left a lasting legacy in highlighting the growing strength of ethnic labor movements during the Great Depression. Filipinos were some of the first to provide a legitimate challenged to the growers and their restriction of agricultural unionization for minorities in the region. It was also the first time any Filipino union or organization had been able to come to an agreement with employers and be recognized as an authoritative body. Participation in the strike gave Filipinos experience in labor participation that they would put to use in future conflicts throughout the Great Depression.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35200150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35200150", "title": "Sensi language", "text": "Sensi language\n\nSensi (Senti, Tenti, Mananahua) is an extinct Panoan language, spoken on the right bank of the Ucayali River, Peru.\n"}
{"id": "910239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910239", "title": "Shabo language", "text": "Shabo language\n\nShabo (or preferably \"Chabu\"; also called Mikeyir) is an endangered language and likely language isolate spoken by about 400 former hunter-gatherers in southwestern Ethiopia, in the westernmost part of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People's Region. They live in three places in the Keficho Shekicho Zone: Anderaccha, Gecha, and Kaabo. As they shift from hunting and gathering to more settled agriculture and to working as laborers, many of its speakers are shifting to other neighboring languages, in particular Majang language and Shekkacho (Mocha); its vocabulary is heavily influenced by loanwords from both these languages, particularly Majangir, as well as Amharic. Its classification is uncertain, though it appears to be a Nilo-Saharan language (Anbessa & Unseth 1989, Fleming 1991, Blench 2010). It was first reported to be a separate language by Lionel Bender in 1977, based on data gathered by missionary Harvey Hoekstra. A grammar was published in 2015 (Kibebe 2015).\n\nOnce the many loanwords from its immediate neighbors, Majang and Shakicho, are removed, the wordlists collected show a significant number of Koman words side by side with a larger number of words with no obvious external relationships. The tentative grammar so far collected offers few obviously convincing external similarities. On this basis, Fleming (1991) has classified Shabo as Nilo-Saharan and, within Nilo-Saharan, as nearest to Koman. Anbessa & Unseth consider it Nilo-Saharan, but present little by way of argument for their position, and no detail on its position within the family. Schnoebelen (2009) in his phylogenetic analysis says that Shabo is best treated as an isolate, but does not exclude the possibility of contradicting evidence gained from applying the comparative method (which still needs to be done); Kibebe (2015) evaluates Schnoebelen as the most rigorous comparison to date. Blench (2010) maintains that Shabo does pattern with the Nilo-Saharan family, and that recent data on Gumuz helped tie the languages together.\n\nThe consonants are:\n\nConsonants in parentheses are not entirely phonemic according to Teferra (1995):\n\nImplosive consonants are common in languages of the area, but ejective consonants are not found in Majang.\n\nConsonant length is found in several words, such as \"walla\" \"goat\", \"kutti\" \"knee\"; however, it is often unstable.\n\nTeferra tentatively postulates 9 vowels: , possibly with further distinctions based on advanced tongue root. Five of these, , have long counterparts. Occasionally final vowels are deleted, shortening medial vowels: e.g. \"deego\" or \"deg\" \"crocodile\".\n\nThe syllable structure is (C)V(C); all consonants except and can occur syllable-finally.\n\nThe language is tonal, but its tonology is unclear. Two minimal pairs are cited by Teferra 1995, including \"há\" \"kill\" versus \"hà\" \"meat\".\n\nBasic word order is subject–object–verb; there are postpositions rather than prepositions.\n\nShabo has an unusually complex pronoun system for Africa:\nThe pronouns \"I\" and \"he\" have been compared to Surmic languages; however, there are also resemblances in the pronouns with the Gunza language (Bender 1983). The gender distinctions made are unusual for Africa.\n\nNegation is by adding the particle \"be\" after the verb or noun negated: \"gumu be\" \"(it is) not (a) stick\", \"ʔam be-gea\" \"he will not come\" (\"come not-?\"). Negative forms in \"b\" are widespread in Nilo-Saharan and Afro-Asiatic languages.\n\nThere appears to be a causative suffix \"-ka\": \"mawo hoop\" \"water boiled\" → \"upa mawo hoop-ka\" \"(a) man boiled water\".\n\nA particle \"git\" (infinitive? subjunctive?) marks the verb in constructions with \"want\": \"moopa git inɗeet\" (\"sit \"git\" want\") \"I want to sit\".\n\nMuch of the verbal morphology is uncertain; there appears to be a 3rd person singular future suffix \"-g-\" (e.g. \"inɗage t'a-g\" \"he will eat\") and a 2nd person plural suffix \"-ɗe\" (e.g. \"subuk maakɛle kak t'a-ɗe\" \"You (pl.) ate corn\", \"you-pl. corn past? eat-2nd-pl.\")\n\nPlurals are optional; when used, they are formed with a word \"yɛɛro\" afterwards.\n\nThere is a suffix \"-ka\" which sometimes mark the direct object, e.g. \"upa kaan-ik ye\" \"a man saw a dog\" (\"man dog saw\"), but also has many other uses. A similar suffix is found in many Eastern Sudanic languages, but there is it specifically accusative.\n\nShabo uses postpositions after nouns, e.g.: \"upa mana pond ɗɛpik moi\" \"a man sat on a rock\" (lit. \"man rock on ? sat\").\n\nThe number system, as given by Tefera and Unseth, is as follows, with Majang equivalents to show how much is borrowed:\n\n\nand 20 is \"iŋk upa kor\" (\"one person complete\") cf. Majang \"rumer iɗit\" 'one person complete'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4109505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109505", "title": "Solstice Cyclists", "text": "Solstice Cyclists\n\nThe Solstice Cyclists (also known as The Painted [Naked] Cyclists of the Solstice Parade, or The Painted Cyclists) is an artistic, non-political, clothing-optional bike ride celebrating the Summer Solstice. It is the unofficial start of the Summer Solstice Parade & Pageant, an event produced by the Fremont Arts Council in the Fremont district of Seattle.\n\nThe event was started by streakers who crashed the parade. The first person to do so may have done so on a dare. Participants now emphasize bodypainting and other artistry. The group is the largest and fastest growing ensemble associated with the parade. The parade, put on by Fremont Arts Council, is held on a Saturday close to the actual solstice.\n\nArt bikes are common and cycles include BMX bikes, cycle rickshaws, unicycles, clown bicycles, tall bikes, lowrider bicycles, tandem bicycles and tricycles. People come from all over the country to ride. Full and partial (especially topfree) nudity is popular, but not mandatory.\n\nWhile cyclists open the parade, they are not in the parade line-up (except in 2003 when they had a float). Parade rules say \"any printed communications, written words, recognizable logos, signage, leaf-letting, or advertising in any form are prohibited on the parade route.\"\n\nRecent events include a pre-ride bodypainting party, a party ride through the city, and the parade itself at noon.\n\n2001 and subsequent years were controversial for the naked cyclists, including references to them as \"parade crashers\". In 2001, police and organizers posted laws against indecent exposure to warn of possible prosecution. Organizers claimed cyclists were getting in the way of the event's artistic freedom. An editorial that day (May 17, 2001) in \"The Seattle Times\" said: \"They have stolen the spotlight on a parade that is supposed to be about art, not about being unclothed. Some Fremonters appear to resent that and do not want the nudists doing this. However, many welcome the cyclists. Neither of them want the cyclists wrestled to the pavement by police, spoiling the atmosphere of their parade.\"\n\n1992 was the first year cyclists are said to have appeared in the fourth annual Solstice Parade with the Mighty Nice Naked Girls playing these Blue Sousaphones. Most likely these were streakers.\n\nIn 1993 7-10 people in the Solstice Parade cycled naked, maybe three of whom were bodypainted. Reference to the second year of naked cyclists: \"It could only happen in Fremont\", said one of the coordinators, Barbara Luecke. \"Only such a rich artistic community could shake off the staid reserve from nearby Ballard to let loose with such creative energy and fun. ... Buck-naked cyclists who streaked the parade for the second year may have crossed the boundary of good taste (would that be Leary Way Northwest?). But one, at least, was wearing a helmet (proof that people in Seattle can get wild, but not too wild).\"\n\nEight naked men were reported to have cycled through the parade: \"All the nudes: Overheard at the Fremont Solstice Parade on Saturday was a woman spectator commenting: \"Oh, no. Not eight naked men on bicycles. I hate naked men on bicycles.\"\nA separate article a week before the parade referred to previous years with naked cyclists.\n\nA cyclist was reported to have hit a child, resulting in the Fremont Arts Council asking police to be present in 1998.\n\n\"Per tradition, there also were naked bicycle riders. They zoomed by so quickly it was hard to tell, um, the type of bike they were riding. 'I wish they had sort of stopped and waved,' said Blue Hesik Lan.\"\n\nOne of the ride's organizers became involved in the ride for the first time, the only one bodypainted in a group of about six. Two 28-year old naked cyclists were arrested because, according to police, they \"cut into the marching order\" of the parade. Four police were involved. The city did not file charges because, according to the prosecuting office: \"in order to prove indecent exposure, it's necessary to show the person's intent was to be obscene and cause alarm.\" Also of note is the sightings of nude cyclists in the Capitol Hill neighborhood this year.\n\n\"Crowds booed when last year's naked riders were arrested and handcuffed.\"\n\n\"Bicyclists riding au naturel is nothing new to the quirky parade, which is known for participants in outlandish and sometimes risque costumes. But police say yesterday's arrests were made primarily for safety: The nude bicyclists typically dash quickly in and out of the parade audience.\"\n\n\"So, why is the only focus on the nude bikers? They were only a part of the parade for a few minutes. I did not see them.\"\n\nIn the eighth year, a second-time rider hosted a bodypainting party at her Wallingford residence in response to SPD's actions of 1998 and friction between the Fremont Arts Council and Mark Sidran/City of Seattle. Twenty-odd friends gathered to get painted and ride together to the parade, including a woman who wore a 3-buttcheek bodysuit costume rather than paint. Members of the Fremont Arts Council launched a spoof of the naked bicyclists as well. Wearing flesh-colored bodysuits with exaggerated body parts sewn on, they cycled down the parade route while two bicyclists pretending to be police officers gave chase. When the truly naked cyclists showed up, they blended right in with their Fremont Arts Council bodysuit imposters.\n\n\"And, of course, there were the infamous and crowd-pleasing nude bikers, a regular attraction eagerly awaited by the parade watchers. ... 'This is not authorized by the organizers,' said Steve Lynch, one of the volunteers responsible for safety and order during the event. 'But it's just for fun, so no interventions.'\"\n\n\"Here in the self-anointed center of the universe, where the Waiting for the Interurban sculptures wear more clothing than the nude cyclists who grace the annual Solstice Parade, high-tech is moving in.\"\n\n\"Meanwhile, Hadrann says the scent of rebellion is in the air in Fremont - or maybe it's just another rumor. 'Some people in the community are going to get nude if he (Sidran) starts arresting the cyclists,' he says. ... 'First, there was 50, now there's like 100 people. . . . Who knows what kind of chain reaction this is going to bring.'\" This article also includes Seattle Police Department Lt. Mark Kuehn's suggestions for safety for nude cyclists such as: \"Refrain from trying out saddles in the nude, for obvious sanitary reasons. Hadrann suggests shoppers take along a few pairs of Chinese disposable underwear (made of paper) for saddle-buying expeditions.\"\n\n\nIn the nude cyclists' ninth year, bodypainting artist Steven Bradford joined the bodypainting team and assisted in transforming 4 women into Fire, Earth, Air, and Water at the painting party at Fire's home.\n\nIn 2001, according to \"The Seattle Times\", there were 50 cyclists, mostly in bodypaint. To the amusement of many, this year an artist had a painting in the parade showing a naked female bicyclist next to a baton-wielding police officer. The pose itself could have either shown the apprehension or the cop gleefully stopping for a picture next to the bicyclist. The panel was put on a small platform on wheels and parade goers were invited to have their pictures taken with their heads poking out of the holes of the naked bicyclists and the officer.\n\nIn 2001, the city threatened to withdraw the event permit for the Fremont Arts Council because of the nudity. Signs were actually made warning naked cyclists that they may be subject to arrest. The city ended up backing off before the event day. Fremont Arts Council parade organizers urged riders to participate within the artistic spirit of the event. Many locals were very upset that the city would threaten to arrest one of the parade's most popular and creative ensembles. The blowback effect, as predicted by Seattle City Council Chair Nick Licata, ended up being more publicity and popularity for the cyclists which, in turn, led to more cyclists wanting to join the ensemble.\n\nIn efforts to combat this effect, the Seattle City Council was invited by the Fremont Arts Council to participate in the parade. Nick Licata was the only one who agreed and ended up cycling through as the \"un-naked cyclist\". After jeers of \"Take your clothes off\" he was met by a parade monitor who told him to get off the parade route, stating \"Yeh? We still don't have bike riding in the parade. If one person rides then others will and then the whole parade will have bikes riding all over the place.\" Licata later lamented in a \"Seattle Times\" article, \"I was waving to the photographer - smack in the middle of a pack of painted, naked bicyclists.\"\n\n\"There was no better illustration of the fair's quirkiness than in its parade - with its wild costumes, floats and giant puppets - and nude bicyclists, which led to a flap over the permit for this year's parade. ... Before the city issued this year's parade permit, police said they have gotten numerous complaints about the nude cyclists every year. They asked the Fremont Arts Council to post signs along the parade route warning cyclists, who are not a sanctioned part of the parade, about laws against indecent exposure. The council said no, even though members discouraged the nudity. ... In 1998, two bikers in the buff were arrested. None were arrested this year.\"\n\n\"What solstice is complete without nude cyclists? To get your annual fix, see the Fremont Summer Solstice Parade and Fair on Saturday and Sunday.\"\n\n\"As has been the tradition, a number of unauthorized naked bicycle riders start the parade. Last year there were 50 — most in body paint.\"\n\n2003 marked the twelfth year of naked cyclists taking part in the Solstice Parade. The parade took place on June 21, 2003. Numbers quadrupled from previous years to between 75 and 80 riders. An internet discussion forum was established for the first time. The bodypainting party took place at the host's house in the Ravenna neighborhood, with a photo shoot at Cowen Park. The procession then began south through the University District on Roosevelt and then on 45th through Wallingford to Phinney Ridge. This is also the first year that the cyclists were officially part of the parade with their Helios-themed float, which several cyclists (partially dressed) climbed aboard after they cycled through the parade. The float featured wispy clouds and gold-painted \"chariot\" exercise bikes to evoke a sense of pulling the sun through the summer. Ironically, toward the end of the parade, and despite all the \"Happy Solstice\" chants, the sky clouded over and it began to rain. Two digital video films were produced from footage of this year's event. One is called \"Naked & Painted: The Fremont Solstice Riders 2003\" and is sold to friends and future potential riders with proceeds going to a local charity. The other video was called \"Solstice: A Celebration of the Art of Bodypainting\" produced by James W. Taylor/Circle Rock Productions and premiered at Naked Freedom Film Festival , held at the Seattle Art Museum on May 15, 2004. Unusually cool weather this year resulting in a number of weather-themed paint jobs.\n\nAlso in 2003, much publicity was focused on David Zaitzeff's determination to walk naked through the Solstice Parade. Zaitzeff sued Seattle police Chief Gil Kerlikowske in a federal lawsuit because he \"desires to go nude at the Fremont Solstice Parade without fear of unjust arrest\". U.S. District Judge Robert Lasnik said that because Zaitzeff had not been arrested for indecent exposure, the court couldn't make a prospective ruling on the matter.\n\nMuch later in the year there was a suggestion to have the group become part of a larger international naked bike ride, later known as the World Naked Bike Ride (WNBR). The idea was unpopular because the Solstice Parade, unlike WNBR, is a non-political arts event. Secondary reasons for not liking the idea included that WNBR would not be as spontaneous of an event and some may not be as inclined to participate in an artistic way.\n\nThe parade took place on June 19, 2004. About 116 cyclists participated, setting a new record. The main group started to ride from the pre-parade bodypainting party at the old Segway building in Ballard. (The building was later demolished to make way for Ballard Civic Center Park.) The ride proceeded down NW Market Street to Leary Way to the parade. The cyclists did not have a float in the parade in 2004, but there were more elaborate art installations on bikes. 2004 also marked the beginning of the \"Synchronised Cycling Drill Team\" within the group. The year's theme was Noah's Ark animals. One of the cyclists provided rides to children along the parade route in her cycle rickshaw.\n\nA week prior to the event, on June 12, was the first annual World Naked Bike Ride Seattle event and was the first time a major naked cycling event has crossed the channel into downtown Seattle. This ride featured a pre-ride bodypainting party at Gas Works Park, where the end of the painted cyclists ride traditionally took place.\n\n \nThe parade took place on June 18, 2005. Approximately 138 cyclists leave bodypainting party on the south side of the Lake Washington Ship Canal, and once joined by those waiting at the parade, the numbers probably grew to around 160 cyclists. Part of the ride included going down the Ballard Bridge on 15th Avenue and turning again on NW Market Street. About five cyclists broke off from the group after the end of the parade ride and rode around Green Lake and came back to Fremont.\n\nOne of the big controversies in 2005 was the Fremont Arts Council excluding People Undergoing Real Experiences (PURE) (now known as Pure cirkus) from dressing \"up as pirates with two people suspended on a pirate ship float from hooks in their skin\" as they go through the parade. Much of the media noted that while the naked cyclists are tolerated and widely popular, this has become the new controversial area for the council.\n\nA week later, a third painted ride, called the Body Pride Ride, was started by one of the painted cyclists, and took place for the first time in the Seattle Gay Pride Parade on Capitol Hill. A WNBR mini-ride in September marked 2005 as a record-setting year not only for the number of painted cyclists participating, but also for doubling the number of painted naked rides in Seattle to a total of four.\n\n\"If bike riders rode nude in a Los Angeles summer solstice celebration, the LAPD would shoot them dead, after a 'slow speed' chase televised on all 28 local channels.\"\n\n\"Really, that's just the crazy naked bicyclists who precede the parade every year. They get all the press, all the hype, all the lasting impressions. People who work on the parade openly despise them. ... The nude bikers take away from all the legitimate art that volunteers spend countless hours creating. With one exhibitional blow, months of hard work by solstice parade artists is knocked from our collective conscious.\"\n\nThe 18th Annual Summer Solstice Parade & Pageant, on June 17, 2006, marked the 15th year that naked cyclists have participated in the parade. On March 27, 2006, the Painted Cyclists went public with a public portal website: The Painted Cyclists. KUOW-FM in Seattle did an interview for their program called \"Weekday\" with the cyclists at the Ballard neighborhood where the bodypainting party was taking place, taking up at least three residential lots. The interview was reportedly about cycling safety in Seattle. This is confirmed by several cyclists and pictures taken at the bodypainting party. The segment aired on June 22, 2006.\n\nThe 19th Annual Solstice Parade took place on June 16, 2007, marking the sixteenth consecutive year the painted cyclists have ridden in the parade. 267 cyclists took to the streets at 11:45 a.m. with little or no confrontation, legal or otherwise. The annual painting party took place at a nearby residence on NW 48th Street in Ballard. For the first time, a video presented by a painted inline skater was shot at the painting party and posted to the website of \"The Stranger\" newspaper.\n\nThe 20th Annual Solstice Parade took place on June 21, 2008, marking the 17th consecutive year that the painted cyclists have accompanied. Slightly fewer cyclists than in previous years rode, and tension between both the Seattle police and the Fremont Arts Council was minimal. The painting party took place this time in Belltown, meaning the cyclists had to ride a full three miles through the Seattle neighborhood of Queen Anne to get to Fremont. Painting parties were also going on independently of the main party downtown, so riders had to coordinate meeting up at a common location before entering the parade. After making a surprise entrance by entering through the crowd at the middle of the parade route, on Fremont Avenue (which had never been done before), riders were initially rerouted because of the timing of the permits. They later reentered the parade route closer to the traditional starting point and proceeded through the parade, ending the ride at Gas Works Park.\n\nThe 21st Annual Solstice Parade took place on June 20, 2009, marking the 18th consecutive year of the painted cyclists. The painting party took place at Hale's Ales in Ballard, and attracted an estimated 430 cyclists, plus painters. After riding through Ballard and watching their numbers swell as riders from independent paint parties joined the group, the riders traversed the parade route in Fremont, ending once again at Gas Works Park. Media coverage included an article and video by the Seattle P-I. Ensembles included the \"Stimulus Package\" group, appropriate for a year of controversial economic bailouts. This year was also the first year of the Gardens Everywhere Bike Parade.\n\nThe 22nd Annual Solstice Parade took place on Saturday, June 19, 2010, marking the nineteenth consecutive year of the painted (and some not-so-painted) solstice cyclists. The painting party again took place at Hale's Ales in Ballard, and attracted hundreds of cyclists, plus painters. Then they jumped on their bikes and headed to Ballard for a warm-up ride in the relatively chilly mid-50s air, surprising unsuspecting drivers and whooping it up down Market Street before returning for the noon start of the parade, where the riders completed the parade route in Fremont. An optional repeat loop-back plan through part of the route was added in 2010, designed to extend the experience for both the riders who opted for it as well as the crowd lining the streets, with a side benefit of minimizing any time gap between the end of the cyclists and the start of the parade proper. That plan met with some confusion due to communication issues with parade officials, and therefore mixed results, but riders vowed to remedy that in 2011. The cyclists ended at the now-traditional clothing-optional \"victory celebration\" at and around Kite Hill in Gas Works Park.\n\nThe parade took place on June 18, the day before Fathers Day. The skies were overcast and the temperature was in the mid-50s with intermittent misty light rain—for the second year in a row, the third Saturday in June was unseasonably cool. But that did not deter the 600+ riders nor curb their enthusiasm. For many, the day started at the old Ballard Library building, which had been rented as the central location for body painting. Earlier in the week, plastic had been laid on the floor and taped into one big surface, then tables set out to delineate separate painting areas. Aisles were painted on the floor in orange with \"Keep Clear\" to keep the fire marshal happy and facilitate movement around the area; bumping into someone covered in paint leaves a mark. In the northwest corner was the film crew for Beyond Naked, a documentary about four first time riders.\n\nThe parade riders gathered in the parking lot next to the library awaiting the go-ahead for the trip through Ballard. Most participants shivered in the cold while logistics were confirmed. Then, off through Ballard, to the amazement of unsuspecting pedestrians, many whooping and hollering encouragement. From there the parade snaked through Fremont in a circuitous route, getting longer at each pass, until it finally ended at Gas Works Park.\n\nThe solstice cyclists rode for the 21st consecutive year, starting out by hosting their painting party at the Old Ballard Library, on NW 57th St. and 24th Avenue (the same place as the previous year). The weather was overcast with temperatures in the 60's.\n\nAfter a morning paint party at a marine hangar in Seattle's Shilshole neighborhood, hundreds of cyclists and skaters rode through Ballard, pausing for a group photo at Ross Park, before entering the parade course in Fremont at 2:45 pm. For the first time in several years the weather was hot and sunny, and as a result the crowd watching the parade was especially dense, and the number of participants was much larger than in previous years, with estimates ranging from several hundred to 1000.\n\nA small group of longtime organizers once again hosted a mass paint party in the Silshole neighborhood. The organizers took a video of the painted cyclists heading out through the gate and counted well over 1,100 cyclists just at this paint party. En-route to the parade starting point they were joined by hundreds of other painted cyclists who swelled the ranks at each passing intersection . The artistry displayed on naked riders' bodies has become more and more intricate each year with some riders bringing their own personal painters to the party. Donations were collected at the entrance and after all expenses were paid the paint party volunteers donated $4,500 to the Fremont Art Council in order to help pay the parade expenses.\n\nIn the weeks prior to the parade this year there was some friction between the Fremont Arts Council, the official parade organizers, and the cyclist organizers, a non-hierarchical consensus group that comes together once a year and has no formal organization. The FAC wanted the cyclists to become official members of the parade and under their control. The cyclist group are basically anarchists in the way they operate and said \"no\". They agreed to disagree and things went on as usual with close cooperation between the two groups.\nThe numbers dwindled this year as the day dawned cold and damp. A seasoned group of 10 volunteers once again opened the gates to the large, group paint party at a private marina in the 4100 block of Shilshole Ave. N.W. At an entry portal donations were taken and only people who were cyclists to be painted or their painters were allowed to enter. Over several hours 600 clothed cyclists entered and at noon 600 cold (but exuberant) painted naked cyclists exited. The group rode through the Ballard neighborhood and then on to the Fremont Solstice Parade route where they were joined by approximately 100 more painted cyclists from private paint parties. After subtracting expenses, the organized paint party group was able to donate $2,000 to the Fremont Arts Council to help defray the parade costs the following spring.\n\n"}
{"id": "16456583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16456583", "title": "Southern Altai language", "text": "Southern Altai language\n\nSouthern Altai (also known as Oirot, Oyrot, Altai and Altai proper) is a Turkic language spoken in the Altai Republic - a mountainous region in Southern Siberia in Russia on the border with Mongolia and China. The language has some mutual intelligibility with the Northern Altai language. And the two were traditionally considered to be a single language, but according to modern classifications - at least since the middle of the XXth century - they are considered to be two separate languages. The written Altai is based on Southern Altai. According to some reports, however, it is rejected by Northern Altai children. Dialects include Altai Proper and Talangit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5966571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5966571", "title": "Stereotypes of East Asians in the United States", "text": "Stereotypes of East Asians in the United States\n\nStereotypes of East Asians are ethnic stereotypes found in American society about first-generation immigrants, and American-born citizens whose family members immigrated to the United States, from East Asian countries, such as China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. Stereotypes of East Asians, like other ethnic stereotypes, are often portrayed in the mainstream media, literature, internet, film, television, music, and other forms of creative expression in American society. These stereotypes have been largely and collectively internalized by society and have mainly negative repercussions for Americans of East Asian descent and East Asian immigrants in daily interactions, current events, and government legislation. Media portrayals of East Asians often reflect an Americentric perception rather than realistic and authentic depictions of true cultures, customs and behaviors. In the past, East Asian Americans have experienced discrimination and have been victims of hate crimes related to their ethnic stereotypes, as it has been used to reinforce xenophobic sentiments.\n\nThe term \"Yellow Peril\" refers to white apprehension, peaking in the late 19th-century, that the European inhabitants of Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada, and the United States would be displaced by a massive influx of East Asians; who would fill the nation with a foreign culture and speech incomprehensible to those already there and steal jobs away from the European inhabitants and that they would eventually take over and destroy their civilization, ways of life, culture and values. The term has also referred to the belief and fear that East Asian societies would invade and attack Western societies, wage war with them and lead to their eventual destruction, demise and eradication. During this time, numerous anti-Asian sentiments were expressed by politicians and writers, especially on the West Coast, with headlines like \"The 'Yellow Peril'\" (\"Los Angeles Times\", 1886) and \"Conference Endorses Chinese Exclusion\" (\"The New York Times\", 1905) and the later Japanese Exclusion Act. The American Immigration Act of 1924 limited the number of Asians because they were considered an \"undesirable\" race.\n\nAustralia had similar fears and introduced a White Australia policy, restricting immigration between 1901 and 1973, with some elements of the policies persisting up until the 1980s. On February 12, 2002, Helen Clark, then prime minister of New Zealand apologized \"to those Chinese people who had paid the poll tax and suffered other discrimination, and to their descendants\". She also stated that Cabinet had authorized her and the Minister for Ethnic Affairs to pursue with representatives of the families of the early settlers a form of reconciliation which would be appropriate to and of benefit to the Chinese community. Similarly, Canada had in place a head tax on Chinese immigrants to Canada in the early 20th century; a formal government apology was given in 2007 (with compensation to the surviving head tax payers and their descendants).\n\nThere is a widespread perception that East Asians are not considered genuine Americans but are instead \"perpetual foreigners\". Asian Americans often report being asked the question, \"Where are you really from?\" by other Americans, regardless of how long they or their ancestors have lived in United States and been a part of its society.\n\nEast Asian Americans have been perceived, treated, and portrayed by many in American society as \"perpetual\" foreigners who are unable to be assimilated and inherently foreign regardless of citizenship or duration of residence in the United States. A similar view has been advanced by Ling-chi Wang, professor emeritus of Asian American studies at the University of California, Berkeley. Wang asserts that mainstream media coverage of Asian communities in the United States has always been \"miserable\". He states, \"In [the] mainstream media's and policymakers' eyes, Asian Americans don't exist. They are not on their radar... and it's the same for politics.\"\n\nI. Y. Yunioshi from Blake Edwards' 1961 American romantic-comedy Breakfast at Tiffany's is one such example which had been broadly criticized by mainstream publications. In 1961, \"The New York Times\" review said that \"Mickey Rooney's bucktoothed, myopic Japanese is broadly exotic.\" In 1990, \"The Boston Globe\" criticized Rooney's portrayal as \"an irascible bucktoothed nerd and an offensive ethnic caricature\". Critics note that the character of Mr. Yunioshi reinforced anti-Japanese wartime propaganda to further exclude Japanese Americans from being treated as normal citizens, rather than hated caricatures.\n\nA study by UCLA researchers for the Asian American Justice Center (AAJC), \"Asian Pacific Americans in Prime Time\", found that Asian-American actors were under represented on network TV. While Asian-Americans make up 5 percent of the US population, the report found only 2.6 percent were primetime TV regulars. Shows set in cities with large Asian populations, like New York and Los Angeles, had few Asian roles.\n\nEast Asians in the United States have been stereotyped as a \"model minority\"; that is, possessing positive traits such as being seen as industrious, politically inactive, studious, intelligent, productive, and inoffensive people who have elevated their socioeconomic standing through merit, self-discipline and diligence. However, some East Asian Americans believe the model minority stereotype to be damaging and inaccurate, and are acting to dispel this stereotype. Some may acknowledged that model minority is seen as a \"denial of racial reality\" which is one of the eight themes in racial microaggression. Many scholars, activists, and most major American news sources have started to oppose this stereotype, calling it a misconception that exaggerates the socioeconomic success of East Asian Americans. According to those trying to debunk this belief, the model minority stereotype also alienates other Asian American subgroups such as South and Southeast Asians and covers up actual Asian American issues and needs that are still not properly addressed in American society at large. This creates how East Asians as a model minority are still experiencing essential socioeconomic disadvantages. For example, the widespread notion that East Asian Americans have higher educational attainment rates, constitute a large presence in professional and managerial occupations and earn above average per capita incomes obscures workplace issues such as the \"bamboo ceiling\" phenomenon, where the advancement in corporate America where attaining the highest-level managerial or executive positions top U.S. corporations reaches a limit, and the fact that East Asians must acquire more education, work experience and work more hours than their white counterparts to earn the same amount of money.\n\nThe \"model minority\" image is also seen as being damaging to East Asian American students because their assumed success makes it easy for educators to overlook some East Asian American students who are underachieving, struggle academically, and assimilate more slowly in the American school system. The myth also undermines the achievements of East Asian American students as part of their inherent racial attributes, rather than other factoring characteristics such as work ethic, tenacity and discipline.\n\nEast Asian Americans also commit crimes at a disproportionately lower rate than other racial and ethnic groups in the United States. However, examples of criminal and unethical behavior are in contrast to the model minority construct. One notable case was the Virginia Tech massacre by committed by Seung-Hui Cho, which led to the deaths of 33 individuals, including Cho himself. The shooting spree, along with Cho's Korean ancestry, stunned American society. Other notable cases include the stunning downfall of politician Leland Yee from serving in the California State Senate to serving time in federal prison, and NYPD Officer Peter Liang, who was convicted of shooting an unarmed black man. This led to a rift between the East Asian and African American communities in New York City, with many African Americans believing that Liang being spared prison time was due to his model minority status. Former United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki, the first Asian American to serve in that post, also resigned in light of the scandal involving the entire Veterans Health Administration and the substantial delayed wait times for veterans to receive adequate care.\n\nAnother effect of the stereotype is that American society at large may tend to ignore the underlying racism and discrimination that many East Asian Americans still face despite positive socioeconomic indicators. Complaints are dismissed by American politicians and other government legislators with the claim that the racism that may East Asian Americans still face is less important than or not as bad as the racism faced by other minority races, thus establishing an systematically deceptive racial hierarchy. Believing that due to their socioeconomic success and that they possess so-called \"positive\" stereotypical traits, many ordinary Americans assume that East Asian Americans face no forms of racial discrimination or social issues in American society at large, and that their community is thriving, having \"gained\" socioeconomic success through their own merit.\n\nFu Manchu and Charlie Chan are two important and well-known fictional East Asian characters in America's cultural history. Created by Sax Rohmer and Earl Derr Biggers in the early part of the 20th century, Fu Manchu is the embodiment of America's imagination of a threatening mysterious East Asian people while Charlie Chan is an apologetic submissive Chinese-Hawaiian detective who represents America's archetypal \"good\" East Asian. Both characters found widespread popularity in numerous novels and films.\n\nThirteen novels, three short stories, and one novelette have been written about Fu Manchu and Sir Denis Nayland Smith, the British agent determined to stop him. Millions of copies have been sold in the United States with publication in British and American periodicals and adaptations to film, comics, radio, and television. Due to his enormous popularity, the \"image of Fu Manchu has been absorbed into American consciousness as the archetypal East Asian villain.\" In \"The Insidious Doctor Fu-Manchu\", Sax Rohmer introduces Fu Manchu as a cruel and cunning man, with a face like Satan, who is essentially the \"Yellow Peril incarnate\".\n\nSax Rohmer inextricably tied the evil character of Fu Manchu to all East Asians as a physical representation of the Yellow Peril, attributing the villain's evil behavior to his race. Rohmer also adds an element of mysticism and exoticism to his portrayal of Fu Manchu. Despite Fu Manchu's specifically Manchu ethnicity, his evil and cunning are pan-Asian attributes again reinforcing Fu Manchu as representational of \"all\" East Asian people.\n\nBlatantly racist statements (not considered so at the time the novels were published) made by white protagonists such as: \"the swamping of the white world by yellow hordes might well be the price of our failure\" again add to East Asian stereotypes of exclusion. Fu Manchu's inventively sardonic methods of murder and white protagonist Denis Nayland Smith's grudging respect for his intellect reinforce stereotypes of East Asian intelligence, exoticism/mysticism, and extreme cruelty.\n\nCharlie Chan, a fictional character created by author Earl Derr Biggers loosely based on Chang Apana (1871–1933), a real-life Chinese-Hawaiian police officer, has been the subject of 10 novels (spanning from 1925 to as late as 1981), over 40 American films, a comic strip, a board game, a card game, and a 1970s animated television series. In the films, the role of Charlie Chan has usually been played by white actors (namely Warner Oland, Sidney Toler, and Roland Winters).\n\nIn stark contrast to the Chinese villain Fu Manchu, East Asian American protagonist Charlie Chan represents the American archetype of the \"good\" East Asian. In \"The House Without a Key\", Earl Derr Biggers describes Charlie Chan in the following manner: \"He was very fat indeed, yet he walked with the light dainty step of a woman. His cheeks were chubby as a baby's, his skin ivory tinted, his black hair close-cropped, his amber eyes slanting.\" Charlie Chan speaks English with a heavy accent and flawed grammar, and is exaggeratedly polite and apologetic. After one particular racist affront by a Bostonian woman, Chan responds with exaggerated submission, \"Humbly asking pardon to mention it, I detect in your eyes slight flame of hostility. Quench it, if you will be so kind. Friendly co-operation are essential between us.\" Bowing deeply, he added, \"Wishing you good morning.\"\n\nBecause of Charlie Chan's emasculated, unassertive, and apologetic physical appearance and demeanor he is considered a non-threatening East Asian man to mainstream audiences despite his considerable intellect and ability. Many modern critics, particularly Asian-American critics, claim that Charlie Chan has none of the daring, assertive, or romantic traits generally attributed to white fictional detectives of the time, allowing \"white America ... [to be] securely indifferent about us as men.\" Charlie Chan's good qualities are the product of what Frank Chin and Jeffery Chan call \"racist love\", arguing that Chan is a model minority and \"kissass\". Instead, Charlie Chan's successes as a detective are in the context of proving himself to his white superiors or white racists who underestimate him early on in the various plots.\n\nThe Chan character also perpetuates stereotypes as well, oft quoting supposed ancient Chinese wisdom at the end of each novel, saying things like: \"The Emperor Shi Hwang-ti, who built the Great Wall of China, once said: 'He who squanders to-day talking of yesterday's triumph, will have nothing to boast of tomorrow.'\" Fletcher Chan, however, argues that the Chan of Biggers's novels is not subservient to whites, citing \"The Chinese Parrot\" as an example; in this novel, Chan's eyes blaze with anger at racist remarks and in the end, after exposing the murderer, Chan remarks \"Perhaps listening to a 'Chinaman' is no disgrace.\"\n\nIn the mid-1800s, early Chinese immigrant workers were derided as emasculated men due to cultural practices of Qing Dynasty. The Chinese workers sported long braids (the \"queue hairstyle\" which was compulsory in China) and sometimes wore long silk gowns. Because Chinese men were seen as an economic threat to the white workforce, laws were passed that barred the Chinese from many \"male\" labor-intensive industries, the only jobs available to the Chinese of the time were jobs that whites deemed \"women's work\" (i.e., laundry, cooking, and childcare).\n\nThis stereotype had received wider usage as a backlash due to Sessue Hayakawa's status as a sex symbol back in old Hollywood in the 1920s.\n\nIn the documentary \"The Slanted Screen\", the Filipino American director Gene Cajayon talks about the revised ending for the action movie \"Romeo Must Die\", a retelling of \"Romeo and Juliet\" where Aaliyah plays Juliet to Jet Li's Romeo. The original ending had Aaliyah kissing Chinese actor Li, which would have explained the title of Romeo, a scenario that did not test well with an urban audience. The studio changed the ending to Trish (Aaliyah) giving Han (Jet Li) a tight hug. According to Cajayon, \"Mainstream America, for the most part, gets uncomfortable with seeing an East Asian man portrayed in a sexual light.\"\n\nOne study has shown East Asians as being perceived as being less masculine than their white and black American counterparts.\n\nEast Asian men are also stereotyped and portrayed as having small penises. Such an idea fueled the phenomenon that being a bottom in a homosexual relationship for East Asian men is more of a reflection of what is expected of them, than a desire.\n\nThese stereotypes create an overall perception that East Asian men are less sexually desirable compared to men of other races.\n\nIn the early stage of Hollywood's film production, East Asian males such as Sessue Hayakawa exhibited their male attractiveness both on and off screen, but they became the victim of their own success when their popularity caused dissension.\nLater, when Bruce Lee joined Hollywood, he was one of the few Asians who had achieved Alpha male status on screen and transformed the image of the Asian male in U.S cinema; since then the popularity of East Asian male stars has grown steadily.\n\nMore recent media depictions of East Asian males are at a seeming variance with traditional stereotypes. Study findings from an analysis of the TV show \"Lost\" suggest that increased globalization is responsible for providing a more sexualized and virilized portrayal of East Asian males in televised media.\n\nEast Asian men have been portrayed as threats to white women in many aspects of American media. Depictions of East Asian men as \"lascivious and predatory\" were common at the turn of the 20th century. Fears of \"white slavery\" were promulgated in both dimestore novels and melodramatic films.\n\nBetween 1850 and 1940, both US popular media and propaganda before and during World War II humanized Chinese men, while portraying Japanese men as a military and security threat to the country, and therefore a sexual danger to white women due to the perception of a woman's body traditionally symbolizing her \"tribe's\" house or country. In the 1916 film \"Patria\", a group of fanatical Japanese individuals invade the United States in an attempt to rape a white woman. Patria was an independent film serial funded by William Randolph Hearst (whose newspapers were known to promulgate threats of the yellow peril), in the lead up to the United States' entry into World War I.\n\n\"The Bitter Tea of General Yen\" portrays the way in which an \"Oriental\" beguiles white women. The film portrays Megan Davis (Barbara Stanwyck) coming to China to marry a missionary (Gavin Gordon) and help in his work. They become separated at a railway station, and Davis is rescued/kidnapped by warlord General Yen (Nils Asther). Yen becomes infatuated with Davis, and knowing that she is believed to be dead, keeps her at his summer palace.\n\nAnother stereotype of East Asian men is that they are misogynistic, insensitive, and disrespectful towards women. However, studies have shown that East Asian men express more gender egalitarian attitudes than the American average. East Asian men are commonly portrayed in Western media as male chauvinists. This can be seen in best-selling novels such as \"Rising Sun\" by Michael Crichton, in which Japanese businessmen mistreat and denigrate their white mistresses. Popular films such as \"The Wolverine\" portrays Japanese patriarchs as domineering, controlling and abusive towards their daughters.\n\nEven literatures written by Asian American authors aren't free of the pervasive popular cliche on Asian men. Amy Tan's book \"The Joy Luck Club\" has been criticized by Asian American figures such as Frank Chin for perpetuating racist stereotypes of Asian men.\n\nEast Asian women have been portrayed as aggressive or opportunistic sexual beings or predatory gold diggers using their feminine wiles. Western film and literature has continually portrayed such stereotypes of East Asian women: depicting East Asian women as cunning \"Dragon Ladies\". This is contrasted with the other stereotypes of servile \"Lotus Blossom Babies\", \"China dolls\", \"Geisha girls\", war brides, or prostitutes.\n\nIn contemporary times, the Dragon Lady stereotype is personified by Ling Woo, a fictional character in the US comedy-drama \"Ally McBeal\", (1997–2002) portrayed by American actress Lucy Liu. Ling was a cold and ferocious Chinese American lawyer who spoke Mandarin and was knowledgeable in the art of sexual pleasure unknown to the American world. At the time, she was the only significant representative of East Asian women on television (besides news anchors and reporters), leaving no one else to counteract this prominent stereotype. Thus, the portrayal of Ling Woo attracted much scholarly attention. This attention has led to the idea that racial microaggression is another form of stereotypes as it states how Asian American women are portrayed as exotic beauty, also known as \"exoticization of Asian American women\"; yet White men still see Asian women being very submissive and some form of sexual object or material. University of Wyoming Darrell Hamamoto, Professor of Asian American Studies at the University of California, Davis, describes Ling as \"a neo-Orientalist masturbatory fantasy figure concocted by a white man whose job it is to satisfy the blocked needs of other white men who seek temporary escape from their banal and deadening lives by indulging themselves in a bit of visual cunnilingus while relaxing on the sofa.\" Hamamoto does maintain, however, that Ling \"sends a powerful message to white America that East Asian American women are not to be trifled with. She runs circles around that tower of Jell-O who serves as her white boyfriend. She's competitive in a profession that thrives on verbal aggression and analytical skill.\" Contemporary actress Lucy Liu has been accused of popularizing this stereotype by characters she have played in mainstream media.\n\nAn iconic source of images of East Asian women in the 20th century in the West is the 1957 British novel and 1960 American film, \"The World of Suzie Wong,\" about a Hong Kong woman. The titular character is represented through a frame of white masculine heterosexual desire: Suzie is portrayed as an submissive prostitute that is sexually turned on at the idea of being beaten by a white man. UC Berkeley Professor of Asian American Studies Elaine Kim argued in the 1980s that the stereotype of East Asian women as submissive has impeded their economic mobility.\n\nAccording to author Sheridan Prasso, the \"China [porcelain] doll\" stereotype and its variations of feminine submissiveness recurs in American movies. These variations can be presented as an associational sequence such as: \"Geisha Girl/Lotus Flower/Servant/China Doll: Submissive, docile, obedient, reverential; the Vixen/Sex Nymph: Sexy, coquettish, manipulative; tendency toward disloyalty or opportunism; the Prostitute/Victim of Sex Trade/War/Oppression: Helpless, in need of assistance or rescue; good-natured at heart.\"\n\nAnother is Madama Butterfly (\"Madame Butterfly\"), an opera in three acts (originally two acts) by Giacomo Puccini, with an Italian libretto by Luigi Illica and Giuseppe Giacosa. It is the story of a Japanese maiden (Cio-Cio San), who falls in love with and marries a white American navy lieutenant. After the officer leaves her to continue his naval service away from Japan, Cio-Cio San gives birth to their child. Cio-Cio San blissfully awaits the lieutenant's return, unaware that he had not considered himself bound by his Japanese marriage to a Japanese woman. When he arrives back in Japan with an American wife in tow and discovered that he has a child by Cio-Cio San, he proposes to take the child to be raised in America by himself and his American wife. The heartbroken Japanese girl bids farewell to her callous lover, then kills herself.\n\nThere has been much controversy about the opera, especially its treatment of sex and race. It is the most-performed opera in the United States, where its rank as Number 1 in \"Opera America\"'s list of the 20 most-performed operas in North America. This popularity only helps to perpetuate the notion of the dominant white male over the subjugated East Asian female who can be cast aside and treated as easily dispensable according to Sheridan Prasso in her book, \"The Asian Mystique: Dragon Ladies, Geisha Girls, & Our Fantasies of the Exotic Orient\" published in 2005.\n\nA contemporary example would be \"Miss Saigon\", a 1989 musical by Claude-Michel Schönberg and Alain Boublil, a modern adaptation of Giacomo Puccini's opera \"Madame Butterfly\". This musical has been criticized for what some have perceived as racist or sexist overtones. Criticism has led to protests against the musical's portrayal of Asian men, Asian women, and women in general. It banked a record $25 million in advance ticket sales when it was opening on Broadway.\n\nAccording to artist and writer Jessica Hagedorn in \"Asian Women in Film: No Joy, No Luck\", Asian women in golden era Hollywood film were represented as sexually passive and compliant. According to Hagedorn, \"good\" Asian women are portrayed as being \"childlike, submissive, silent, and eager for sex\".\n\nIn instances of rape in pornography, study found that young East Asian women are overrepresented. It had been suggested that the hypersexualized yet compliant representations of East Asian women being a frequent theme in American media is the cause of this. In addition, East Asian women being often stereotyped as having tighter vaginas than other races is another suggested factor.\n\nIn early 2011, writer Amy Chua generated controversy with her book \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\", published in January 2011, was a memoir about her parenting journey using strict Confucianist child rearing techniques, which she describes as being typical for Chinese immigrant parents. Her book received a huge backlash and media attention and ignited global debate about different parenting techniques and cultural attitudes that foster such techniques. Furthermore, the book provoked uproar after the release where Chua received death threats, racial slurs, and calls for her arrest on child-abuse charges. The archetypal tiger mom is (similar to the Jewish mother stereotype and the Japanese Kyoiku mama) refers to a strict or demanding mother who pushes her children to high levels of scholastic and academic achievement, using methods regarded as typical of childrearing in East Asia to the detriment of the child's social, physical, psychological and emotional well-being.\n\nDarrell Y. Hamamoto, a professor of Asian American studies at UC Irvine argues that a pervasive racialized discourse exists throughout American society, especially as it is reproduced by network television and cinema. Critics argue that portrayals of East Asians in American media fixating on the epicanthic fold of the eyelid have the negative effect of caricature, whether describing the Asiatic eye positively as \"almond-shaped\" or negatively as \"slanted\" or \"slanty\". Even worse, these critics contend, is the common portrayal of the East Asian population as having yellow skin tones (which the critics reference as colorism). This colorist portrayal negatively contrasts \"colored\" Asian Americans with the European population of North America in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. East Asians are also stereotyped (or orientalized) as having straight dark (or shiny \"blue\") hair usually styled in a \"bowl cut\" (boys) or with straight overgrown bangs (girls). They are often homogenized as one indiscriminate monolithic conglomeration of cultures, languages, histories, and physiological and behavioral characteristics. Almost invariably it is assumed that a person of Asian descent has genetic origins in East Asian countries such as China, Japan, Korea or Taiwan. Although it is a common assumption that people of Asian descent are all of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, or Taiwanese descent, in reality the term \"Asian American\" broadly refers to all people who descend from the Asian continental sub-regions of East Asia, Southeast Asia and South Asia as a whole. People of Chinese, Japanese and Korean descent make up roughly 7 million of the roughly 18 million Asians in America, but Filipinos, Vietnamese and Indians make up a larger portion of the total than Japanese and Koreans.\n\nEast Asians are often sterotyped as being inherently bad drivers.\n\nEast Asians are stereotyped as academic overachievers who are intelligent but socially inept, either lacking social skills or being asocial. A 2010 study found that East Asians in the United States are most likely to be perceived as nerds. This stereotype is socially damaging and contributes to a long history of Asian exclusion in USA.\n\nEast Asians have been stereotyped as immature, childlike, small, infantile looking, needing guidance and not to be taken seriously. The infantilized stereotype is on both physical and mental aspects of the race. East Asians are believed to mature slower in appearance and body, while also thought of as less autonomous and therefore requiring guidance from the \"mature\" white race. Like children, the perception is that they have little power, access, and control over themselves. The stereotype goes hand in hand with fetish against Asian women, who are perceived as more demure, submissive, more eager to please and easily yielding to powerful men.\n\nEast Asians are stereotyped as being athletically inferior to other races. This stereotype has led to discrimination in the recruitment process for professional American sports teams where Asian American athletes are highly underrepresented. Such was the case with Taiwanese-American professional basketball player Jeremy Lin who believed that race was one of the reasons why no NBA teams drafted him in 2010. This belief has been reiterated by sports writer Sean Gregory of \"Time magazine\" and NBA commissioner David Stern. Although Asian Americans comprised 6% of the nation's population in 2012, Asian American athletes represented only 2% of the NFL, 1.9% of the MLB and less than 1% of the NBA.\n\nA psychological experiment conducted by two researchers found that East Asians who do not conform to common stereotypes and who possess qualities such as dominance in the workplace are \"unwelcome and unwanted by their co-workers\" and can even elicit negative reactions and harassment from people of other races.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1809703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1809703", "title": "Stock and station agency", "text": "Stock and station agency\n\nStock and station agencies are businesses which provide a support service to the agricultural community. Their staff who deal with clients are known as stock and station agents. They advise and represent farmers and graziers in business transactions that involve livestock, wool, fertiliser, rural property and equipment and merchandise on behalf of their clients. The number and importance of these businesses fell in the late twentieth century.\n\nThese rural business services institutions originated, when communications were slow and often very difficult, to cope with the double remoteness of early Australian and New Zealand primary producers from their nearest settlement and, particularly in the case of wool, from their overseas markets. In practice they were the pastoralist's banker. Similar, and sometimes the same organisations operated in Latin America and mid-west USA where there was extensive pastoral farming.\n\n\nThese businesses grew to provide their clients with every product or service they might want right from employees or seasonal working capital to, in the person of a client's personal stock agent, close personal friend and personal confidant who regularly visited them, maintained the client's loyalty and kept them up to date with events in the community and their industry. His branch manager might often be unable to maintain an easy relationship with clients unable to fulfill their financial obligations. The branch manager's knowledge of his client's business activities was such and his control over the client's spending was such he could ration their spending on sugar and flour.\n\nThey also act as local managers of properties on behalf of absentee owners deceased estates and mortgagees technically in possession of properties.\n\nThey provide retail stores in small towns for agricultural requirements selling, for example, animal health supplies, animal feed, fencing materials, fertilizer, machinery and tools, and even clothing and groceries.\n\nAn important activity is to organise regular local livestock sales at a community's commercial saleyards. Small rural communities may hold a single annual sale at local saleyards and this may be the highlight of their autumn business and social calendar.\n\nA vital and well-liked part of their rural community, in remote areas, stock agents perform a variety of commercial and social functions. They bring to outlying homesteads on farms and stations stores, mail and newspapers, local news and gossip.\n\nNext the stock agent turns to real work and: \nreports to his client on market trends and prices; \nsorts stock into lines for sales; \nsorts prime animals for the freezing works; \nvalues livestock and advises on different marketing options for stock; \narranges penning and auction; \narranges private sales between sellers and buyers.\narranges transport of stock to saleyards; \nconducts sales of wool on behalf of clients on a commission basis; \nsells a wide range of agricultural products including chemicals; \narranges clearing sales of surplus machinery plant and equipment; and \narranges insurance.\n\nHe also advises and assists clients in the management of agricultural or pastoral companies, stock or farming problems; \narranges finance for the buying of livestock or property; and \nbrings prospective buyers to inspect properties for sale.\n\nIndividual stock agents, within the same agency, may specialise in any one of the preceding activities.\n\n\"Arranged marriage: Farmers expect their stock agents to perform a range of tasks and services. One agent even acted as a go-between for a client who wanted to get married but was too shy to propose to the woman!\"\n\nThe close and enduring individual client relationships which are formed are seen as a forerunner of the newer concept of relationship marketing.\n\nIn his history of the industry Simon Ville says: \". . . the stock and station agent has been a legendary figure in local folklore, connected or related to many individuals and groups, a central figure embedded in rural settler communities and about whom everyone has had a view. This social perspective helps inform our understanding of the agent's role and importance in economic activities since trust, reputation, and personal connection were the vital lubricants in sustaining business relationships and networks.\"\n\nSome of these businesses grew very large in the nineteenth and early twentieth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "21729525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21729525", "title": "TIBÁ", "text": "TIBÁ\n\nThe Intuitive Technology and Bio-Architecture School (TIBÁ) is an eco-centre located in the coastal jungle of Brazil (Mata Atlântica), dedicated to demonstrating and teaching sustainable development and 'barefoot' construction techniques. It was founded in 1987 by Rose and Johan Van Lengen, author of the grassroots construction manual 'The Barefoot Architect'. This book has gained popularity worldwide through its advocation and detailed instruction on appropriate technology and natural building techniques for builders, architects and students. The bio-architecture school was established to provide a place in which students can share and learn these techniques hands-on.\nThe name TIBÁ comes from the Tupi language (Brazilian Amazonian tribe) meaning \"A place where many people meet\".\n\nVarious workshops are held year round in sustainable construction (so called \"bio-construction\"), agroforestry, sanitation, communication and education.\n\nSpecialist workshops held throughout the year include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25091260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25091260", "title": "Tetlepanquetzal", "text": "Tetlepanquetzal\n\nTetlepanquetzal (died 1525) was a Mexican king, He was the fourth Tepanec king of Tlacopan, and reigned after 1503 as a tributary of the Mexican emperor Moctezuma II, whom he assisted in the first defence of Mexico. Afterward he was one of the principal auxiliaries of Cuauhtémoc, and when the city was finally taken, 13 August 1521, he was made prisoner and tortured, together with the emperor, by the Spaniards that he might reveal the hiding place of the imperial treasure. When Hernán Cortés marched in 1525 to Honduras to subdue the revolt of Cristobal de Olid, he carried the emperor and three kings with him, and, under the pretext that he had discovered a conspiracy, all four were strangled.\n"}
{"id": "23999152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23999152", "title": "The Blue Danube (1932 film)", "text": "The Blue Danube (1932 film)\n\nThe Blue Danube is a 1932 British romance film directed by Herbert Wilcox and starring Brigitte Helm, Joseph Schildkraut and Desmond Jeans. Its plot, based on a short story by Doris Zinkeisen, concerns a Hungarian gypsy who leaves his girlfriend for a countess, but soon begins to suffer heartache. \"The Blue Danube\" was made in both English and German-language versions.\n\nIn a Hungarian gypsy encampment, carefree Sandor (Joseph Schildkraut) lives with his beautiful sweetheart Yutka (Chili Bouchier). Into their lives rides a blonde countess (Brigitte Helm), with whom Sandor becomes infatuated.\n\nYutka soon flees from her faithless lover. Sandor roams the country, searching for his lost love, but finds her too late — she now wears furs and has her own aristocratic love—and Sandor returns heartbroken to his Romany encampment.\n\n\nHerbert Wilcox later wrote in his memoirs that he made the film because he was frustrated from making a series of photographed stage plays. He wanted to make a \"talking that did not talk - and without subtitles. Music, of course, was to be a dominant substitute for words or text\". He decided to make a film with minimal dialogue.\nWilcox claims the reviews he received were among the worst of his career. However he said the film recovered its cost from screening in Australia alone.\n\nIn contemporary reviews, Frank Nugent in \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"The chief merit of \"Blue Danube,\" a British film now showing at the Fifty-fifth Street Playhouse, is its presentation of Alfred Rode and his Royal Tzigany Band, a group of eighteen Hungarian gypsy musicians. They play the famous Strauss waltz, some melodies by Liszt and a guitar song of Mr. Rode's composition. Not being a music critic, nor possessing one's technical vocabulary, this corner must be content to report that the selections are played in a manner that sets one's blood to pounding. But Mr. Rode and his band are not all the story of 'Blue Danube.' To be exact, they are little of it, and the rest is a sorry tale of poor editing, incoherence and an overwrought performance by Joseph Schildkraut.\" The critic concluded that \"there is nothing in the film's acting, direction or tempo to arouse enthusiasm.\"\n\nThe \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" described the film as \"very dated\" and that it \"must not be looked on as a typical example of Herbert Wilcox's production\". The review concluded that neither the sound or photography were \"up to modern standards\".\n\nMore recently, \"TV Guide\" called it a \"plodding Gypsy musical.\" \n"}
{"id": "33424397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33424397", "title": "Third-party custody", "text": "Third-party custody\n\nIn some custody situations, it is possible that the child/children will not remain with either of their natural, biological, parents, but instead custody is awarded to a third person. Generally speaking, third-party custody occurs when one of two options occur:\n\nOccasionally, parents will agree to allow an adult (who is not either of the two parents) to raise their child/children. Generally, if either parent changes his/her mind later in the child's life, he/she has the option to seek custody at that point.\n\nCustody may be awarded to a third adult (who is not either of the two parents) because the parents both seemed unfit to do so. Reasons that the court would retain authority over the child/children and later award custody to a third adult include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58053168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58053168", "title": "Werner Boost", "text": "Werner Boost\n\nWerner Boost (born Werner Korecki on May 6, 1928 in Düsseldorf), nicknamed \"The Couples Killer\", is a suspected German serial killer who allegedly committed double murders on couples in the 1950s. However, only one could be definitely proven - the murder of lawyer Bernd Servé in January 1953.\n\nWerner Boost was born in 1928 under the name Werner Korecki and spent his childhood and youth in a Protestant orphanage in Düsseldorf-Kaiserswerth, where he was adopted. Later he was admitted to a care home after he stole 300 Reichmarks from his mother. Boost never met his father. \n\nAt the age of 16, after two broken-off lessons, he was drafted into the Wehrmacht and shortly thereafter became an American prisoner of war. After the end of the war and a failed attempt to complete his baker's journeyman apprenticeship, Boost became a casual worker and escape aid in the former GDR. He was therefore sentenced by the judiciary in the Soviet occupation zone to a three-week prison term.\n\nIn 1949, Boost married and moved the following year with his family, consisting of his wife and two daughters, to his mother's home in Düsseldorf. During this time he was sentenced to several months imprisonment for theft, which he had committed together with his friend and later accomplice Franz Lorbach.\n\nIn 1953, a three-year series of couple slayings began. The first victim was the lawyer Bernd Servé. Servé was in his car with his 18-year-old boyfriend Adolf Hüllencremer when they were attacked by two masked perpetrators. While Dr Servé died immediately after a targeted headshot, Herr Hüllencremer could escape the same fate thanks to feigning death, at the whispered suggestion of Boost's accomplice. The killers believed he was dead after a blow to the head, but in fact, his skin was only slightly injured and could later alert the police. \n\nIn November 1955, the police uncovered a sunken car from a pebble lake near Düsseldorf-Kalkum, where the bodies of 26-year-old Friedhelm Behre and his girlfriend Thea Kürmann were discovered - both robbed and killed, akin to the attack on Servé and Hüllencremer.\n\nOn February 8, 1956, police officers came across an empty vehicle while searching for two missing persons. Because numerous traces of blood were found inside, the surrounding area was searched extensively. The next day, in a haystack not far from the vehicle, the bodies of the missing 20-year-old secretary Hildegard Wassing and her date Peter Falkenberg were found.\n\nFour months later, Boost was arrested. A Revieroberjäger discovered him while he was watching a couple in amusement in their car in a grove near Düsseldorf. Although there was a chance to escape, Boost did not resist his arrest.\n\nAt the trial in June 1956, his former accomplice Lorbach testified against Boost. He confessed to the raid on Bernd Servé and his partner in 1953, stating that Boost had killed his victim by a targeted headshot. Because of this statement was tried for murder and convicted to life imprisonment.\n\nThe other murder charges - and another attempted murder of a couple in 1956, which was only prevented because the woman called on passer-bys for help - were seen by the court as insufficient evidence to be proven. \n\nThe behaviour and actions of the rather unobtrusive defendant during the process were described as charismatic. Similarly, Lorbach, who was portrayed as Boost's personal instrument of bizarre fantasies in search of the perfect murder, described his relationship with Werner Boost. \n\nLorbach was convicted as an accessory of aiding and abetting to six years imprisonment, taking his confession into account.\n\nIn July 1990, Werner Boost was released after 34 years of imprisonment from the Schwerte Prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5911169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5911169", "title": "You Can with Beakman and Jax", "text": "You Can with Beakman and Jax\n\nYou Can with Beakman and Jax, also known in its Spanish-language version as \"El Mundo de Beakman\" (\"The World of Beakman\"), is an American science and education syndicated comic strip by Jok Church, which began on July 14, 1991. The educational comicstrip, and planned television series, were originally intended to be a part of the \"Star Wars\" franchise, with real world facts about science, and languages.\n\nThe comic strip is a text-based comic, that answers readers' questions, with illustrations of the main characters, various objects, and, or the experiments being discussed. It is run as a single panel comic that appears in newspapers as a color, or black and white Sunday feature, in either a 1/4 page strip, or 1/2 tab format. The comic has reached a readership of 52 million readers, in 13 countries. About 80 percent of the letters it receives are from females. From its comic origins, its lead character Beakman would later star in his own live action television series, \"Beakman's World\". The comic also branched out into other media, gaining numerous awards along the way. The comic continued for several months after its author died of a heart attack on April 29, 2016. Jok's final remaining comic was published on July 17, 2016, just three days after its 25th anniversary of publication.\n\nThe comic strip was originally named \"You Can with Beakman\" (also called \"U Can with Beakman\". Its only main character at the time was Beakman Place, a male figure with spiky blue hair, glasses, a neck tie, and a breast pocket full of instruments. Beakman is a non-scientist that learns about the world through books, and then finds ways to prove what he's read about. He was named after Beekman Place, a small street on the east side of Manhattan, New York City. The comic is in a question-and-answer format, in which a reader asks a question, addressed to either Beakman, or also later, his sister Jax Place, a red head, with her hair curled up behind her head in blue circular bands, she wears glasses, and jacks in her hair, and as earrings. Church provides the answer, usually by means of a simple experiment the children reading can do (often with parental assistance or supervision). A paragraph after the results of the experiment, in inverted text at the bottom of the comic, would explain the answer.\n\nThe idea for doing a comic strip came to Jok while he was working for Lucasfilm, and answering questions from George Lucas' fan mail, stating that he was “overcome by the bravery children showed by asking Mr. Lucas anything at all\" and he \"decided to write about real questions from real kids\". While working at Lucasfilm, Jok began working on a project called \"Here's How\" a comicstrip and educational television series featuring C-3PO teaching foreign language and R2-D2 explaining the more physical world\", the idea was eventually shelved, but the concept later evolved into Jok's Comicstrip featuring a character named Beakman. He would receive these science questions from children, and he would choose to answer them based on subjects that he didn't know about, and wanted to learn. The comic was written for an audience that includes children, but not exclusively children. He felt his purpose in making the comics was \"to make sure my readers are not intimidated by the world through which they walk\". He would then research the subject, write, draw, and color the comics by using a Macintosh computer. This process gained him criticism in May 1994 when he explained how to do an experiment separating hydrogen and oxygen from water, through electrolysis using a single jar, and a nine-volt battery, for which he defended the comic strip, by explaining the small amount of gas that would be produced in this way would not be overly dangerous. This was reported to be the first time an experiment's safety was questioned.\n\nBesides answering questions from children, Jok also took questions from adults. One such question came from the Canadian Prime Minister, Jean Chrétien, who asked about why golf balls had little dents. Jok later explained that he \"has world leaders periodically contribute to his ... feature.\" Within the comic strip Jok also introduced an annual \"Beakman and Jax Make Up Your Own Rules Contest\", in which the reader could report on an experiment or research they did. There were up to 100 winners from around the world, and the prizes were such things as a free telescopes and copies of the Beakman & Jax books.\n\nThe comic first appeared in the Marin Independent Journal, and was offered to them for free. The earlier comic strips were then reprinted in three \"Science Stuff You Can Do\" books, a \"Best of\", and was the bases for two specialty books, \"Beakman & Jax's Bubble Book\" and \"Beakman & Jax's Microscope Book\". Shortly after the release of the first book June 1, 1992, on September 18, 1992 an Emmy Award winning television series named Beakman's World began, starring Paul Zaloom as the show's main character, along with three female lab assistants over the years, Lester the Rat, and two puppet penguins. According to Jok the television series was \"written to build a bridge between children and the adult members of their family,\" and \"we created the show to be like a live action cartoon.\" Beakman's sister Jax however, was not included in the television series, which Jok referred to as \"my one disappointment with the show.\" Although his sister wasn't present in the television show, two of Beakman's other relatives did appear on the television show, his mother Beakmom, and his brother Meekman.\n\nIn 1995 an official website opened for the strip published by the \"North Bay Network\", it won many awards. It later moved to its current location in 1996, published by Network Solutions. Where it has received several positive reviews from such internet guides as \"The parents' pocket guide to kids & computers\" by Family Computer Workshop, which gave the site 5 out of 5 stars and recommended it for readers 7–13. At the time the site contained questions and answers, as well as hands-on activities, some of which required Netscape and Shockwave.\n\nThe final strip was published on July 17, 2016, three days after its 25th anniversary and three months after Jok Church died.\n"}
