{"id": "11851667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11851667", "title": "A636 road", "text": "A636 road\n\nThe A636 is a main road in West Yorkshire, England, starting at Wakefield and connecting with the M1 motorway at junction 39 and with the A637 at Flockton roundabout. It ends at the A635 at Denby Dale \n"}
{"id": "55075086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55075086", "title": "Abalos Mensa", "text": "Abalos Mensa\n\nAbalos Mensa is a wedge-shaped mound, or mensa and one of the named features in the vicinity of Planum Boreum, the Martian North pole. It is named after one of the classical albedo features on Mars. Its name was officially approved by IAU in 2006. It extends from latitude 80.21°N to 82.4°N and from longitude 279.34°E to 290.52°E (69.48°W – 80.66°W). Its centre is located at latitude 81.17°N, longitude 284.4°E (75.6°W), and has a diameter of 129.18 km.\n\nAbalos Mensa is a convex formation of approximately 180 kilometer span, with a top-view shaped like a wedge, and lies immediately to the south of the Rupes Tenuis scarp, approximately at 285ºE. In the neighbourhood of Abalos Mensa is the beginning of the dune field of Abalos Undae which continues in a southwestward direction after it emerges from the western end of a narrow channel separating Rupes Tenuis from Abalos Mensa. \nCrotone crater, located at 82.2ºN, 290.0ºE with a 6.4 km diameter, is situated at the channel separating the Rupes Tenuis scarp from Abalos Mensa. West of Abalos Mensa, parallel to and south of the Rupes Tenuis scarp, runs a narrow, low-altitude plain, named Tenuis Mensa, which exhibits a southward slope. The southern part of Abalos Mensa ends in a scarp called Abalos Scopuli.\n\nResearch on the stratigraphic analysis of the Martian circumpolar deposits is ongoing because it provides information on the ancient climate and geological formation processes of the planet. The circumpolar deposit of Abalos Mensa has been described as an \"enigmatic wedge of material\", which has been studied by scientists due to its uncommon location and shape characteristics. Formation theories for Abalos Mensa primarily propose erosional processes based either on fluid action or wind action; the latter are known as Aeolian processes, named after Aeolus, the ancient Greek God of the wind.\n\nThe fluid flow theories propose fluid action which would erode the surrounding area and produce the channels that separate Abalos Mensa from the main ice cap. The fluid flow theories require volcanic action which would provide the thermal energy to melt the polar materials which would then flow and cause erosion of the area. There have been a number of questions raised about the fluid flow theories, including the uncertainty of volcanic activity in the Planum Boreum region.\n\nImpact-shielding-based Aeolian theories propose that ancient material from the base of Planum Boreum was protected by ejecta from an impact crater, and when the old base material of the surrounding area disappeared, the protected mound acted like a source for further accumulation of new deposits, which, with time, produced the mound of Abalos Mensa.\n\nA modified, numerical, Aeolian-based approach uses the data provided by the SHARAD, HiRISE, and MOLA instruments on board the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, to produce a topographic simulation of the area of Abalos Mensa, which is then combined with weather modeling to produce a simulation of the weather conditions and morphological evolution of the area. This approach has determined that the form of Abalos Mensa can be derived using the computer simulation without the need for assumptions such as polar volcanic activity, or impact-shielding of the old polar basal unit.\n\n"}
{"id": "36476932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36476932", "title": "Agbon Kingdom", "text": "Agbon Kingdom\n\nThe Agbon Kingdom (also Agbon ẹkpotọ, Agbon clan) is one of twenty-two subunits of Urhobo culture that have been in existence since before the rise of the Benin Empire in the 1440s and before the arrival of the Portuguese in the Western Niger Delta in the 1480s. It is located in the Delta State of Nigeria which occupies a large space of about 375 square kilometres. This kingdom is surrounded by other Urhobo communities in the locality. The traditional seat of government in this kingdom is at Isiokolo.\n\nOral tradition speaks of migrations from the ancient Bini kingdom by the Urhobos that gave rise to this area.\n\nThe founders of Agbon migrated through Kwale, probably from Erhowa, settled at Ehwen and Erhivwi or Irri in present Isoko division of Delta State. From there they moved down to Utokori, close to Ughwerun; then to Olomu and through the present Ughelli territory of Ekuigbo to found Otorho r' Agbon now known as Isiokolo. Isiokolo is now the recognised ancestral place of leadership by the members of this kingdom. The current king of Agbon Kingdom is His Majesty, Michael G. Omeru, (JP) Ukori I, \nThe Ovie of Agbon.\n\nThis kingdom produces a variety of food crops, mostly yam, plantain and cassava. Cash crops as palm produce and rubber plantations also flourish here. Agbon holds a large reservoir of crude oil which is a major source of income to Nigeria; the Erhorike oil wells are considered to be among the shallowest in the world and are found here.\n\nThe kingdom is highly populated as it has an extensive range of towns and villages under its territorial domain. It has been ranked the second most populous cultural unit in Urhoboland, coming only after Okpe. The population of this kingdom alone amounts for more than 40% of the Delta state population.\n\nThe people of Agbon speak Urhobo as their mother tongue with little or no dialectical forms. The Nigerian pidgin is also widespread in this kingdom as well as English, the lingua franca of Nigeria.\n\nThis kingdom is made up of a wide array of sub-kingdoms and villages or towns. These sub-kingdoms are the consequences of migrations from one terrain to another.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "397849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397849", "title": "Bennachie", "text": "Bennachie\n\nBennachie ( ; Scottish Gaelic: \"Beinn na Cìche\") is a range of hills in Aberdeenshire, Scotland. It has several tops, the highest of which, Oxen Craig, has a height of . Though not particularly high, compared to other peaks within Scotland, the mountain is very prominent, owing to its isolation and the relative flatness of the surrounding terrain, and dominates the skyline from several viewpoints.\n\nThe peak that stands out the most visually is Mither Tap (518 m, 1699 feet) and from its top there are good views of the county to the north and east. Most of the tops lie along an east / west ridge, with the exception of Millstone Hill (409 m) an outlier or spur which is separated from and to the south of the main ridge. Mither Tap has an Iron Age fort on its summit. Unlike with many other hilltop forts in the area, there are no signs of vitrification in the stone. Bennachie is visible from a number of distant points; to the north it is visible from Longman Hill, a point considerably to the north.\n\nSome believe that the peak had religious significance to the Bronze Age people who inhabited this area. This theory is supported by the large number of standing stones in the surrounding area. The significance is believed to be connected to the profile of the hill, which is shaped like a female breast, which is reflected in the name \"Mither Tap\" (Mother Top) and \"Bennachie\" (\"Beinn na Ciche\": 'hill of the breast'). It has been suggested as a possible site of the battle of Mons Graupius. An alternative Gaelic etymology from *\"Beinn a' Chath\", i.e. 'hill of the battle', is perhaps a possibility.\n\nFrom 1800 to 1859 common land on the east side of Bennachie was home to a community of squatters known locally as the Colony. A small number of families led a crofting life often doing skilled work, such as dyking and quarrying, for local landowners. After 1859 the Colony dwindled as the common land was broken up and divided amongst the local estates. However, the last of the original colonists, George Esson, lived on the hill until his death in the 1930s. Visitors to Bennachie can explore the remains of the Colony and extensive work is being done on site and amongst local parish records to determine the history of the Colonists.\n\nMither Tap has an astronomical alignment with the nearby Pictish Fortalice of Caskieben (currently located within Keith Hall). Dr. Arthur Johnston said \"the hill of Benochie, a conical elevation about eight miles distant, casts its shadow over Caskieben at the periods of the equinox.\"\n\nThe range of hills is a popular destination for walkers since it is relatively close to Aberdeen. The Gordon Way is a waymarked trail that traverses the Southern flank of Bennachie between the Visitors Centre in the East and Suie Car Park to the West. Most of the Bennachie range is owned by the Forestry Commission, which maintains a network of paths on and around the hills, several car parks and a visitor centre located at the eastern foot of the range. A volunteer group, the Bailies of Bennachie, founded in 1973, helps with this work and with other environmental and archaeological activities on the hill. There are several marked paths, including fairly easy ascents of Oxen Craig and Mither Tap that start from the centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28668231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28668231", "title": "Blockfield", "text": "Blockfield\n\nA blockfield (also spelt block field) felsenmeer, boulder field or stone field is a surface covered by boulder- or block-sized angular rocks usually associated with alpine and subpolar climates and periglaciation. Blockfields differ from screes and talus slope in that blockfields do not apparently originate from mass wastings. They are believed to be formed by frost weathering below the surface. An alternative theory suggests that modern blockfields may have originated from chemical weathering that occurred in the Neogene when the climate was relatively warmer. Following this thought the blockfields would then have been reworked by periglacial action.\n\nMost known blockfields are located in the northern hemisphere. Examples can be found in Abisko National Park in Sweden, Snowdonia National Park in Wales, the Great End-Scafell Pike ridge in England and Hickory Run Boulder Field and River of Rocks in the Appalachian Mountains of the United States. All examples except the first one are outside present day subpolar climate areas, and have thus traditionally been seen as relict landforms from past times when these areas were under periglaciation.\n\nThe term \"felsenmeer\" comes from the German meaning 'sea of rock'. In a felsenmeer or blockfield, freeze-thaw weathering has broken up the top layer of the rock, covering the underlying rock formation with jagged, angular boulders. Freeze-thaw or frost weathering occurs when water that is trapped along microcracks in rock expands and contracts due to fluctuations in temperature above and below the freezing point. Felsenmeers are formed \"in situ\", meaning that they are not transported during or after their creation.\n\nFelsenmeers only form on slopes of 25° or lower. A steeper angle results in transport of the blocks due to gravity. This creates a talus slope, rather than a felsenmeer. Crude sorting with boulder imbrication can occasionally be seen on the surface of felsenmeers.\n\nThe depth of the boulder field depends on the slope angle, rock types, age, and erosional history. However, a reasonable average for felsenmeer depth is approximately 1m. Ballantyne (1998) defines three types of felsenmeer profiles:\nType 1 consists of boulders overlying a matrix of fines at some depth below the surface.\nType 2 consists of boulders supported by a cohesionless sandy matrix that continues from the surface down through the profile.\nType 3 also consists of boulders supported by a matrix, but differs from Type 2 in that the matrix consists of silt and/or clay rather than sand.\n\nDue to the slope requirements they are most commonly found on plateaus. Basalt and sedimentary rocks often produce larger, more numerous felsenmeers than other types of rock. Blockfields are most often found in high mountain periglacial regions near the Arctic Circle, especially in Iceland, the Canadian arctic and Norway and are still active in parts of Central Europe that were not covered by ice sheets. In the Southern Hemisphere inactive blockfields can be found in the Lesotho Highlands, and the Prince Edward Islands.\n\nFelsenmeers are, typically, relatively young geomorphological features. Most felsenmeers formed during or since the last ice age (approximately 20,000 years ago). Others may be pre-glacial features that survived glaciation beneath cold-based glaciers. Their specific age can be determined using surface exposure dating, a technique that works best on materials which have been exposed to cosmic rays with little interference from trees or soils.\n\n"}
{"id": "4991121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4991121", "title": "Buada Lagoon", "text": "Buada Lagoon\n\nBuada Lagoon is a landlocked, slightly brackish, freshwater lake of Buada District in the island nation of Nauru. It occupies about .\n\nThe lagoon is classified as an endorheic lake, meaning there is no outflow to other bodies of water such as oceans or rivers.\n\nUnlike in many areas of Nauru, trees are in relative abundance in the vicinity of Buada Lagoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "4080179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080179", "title": "Catholic Diocese of Helsinki", "text": "Catholic Diocese of Helsinki\n\nThe Catholic Diocese of Helsinki is a diocese of the Latin Rite of the Catholic church based in Helsinki, which comprises the whole of Finland. The diocese is divided into eight parishes.\n\nThe current Catholic Bishop of Helsinki is Teemu Sippo, S.C.I., the first ethnic Finn to hold the office since its reestablishment after the Reformation (previous bishops included three Dutch and a Pole). As of 2018 there are 15,000 registered catholic people living in Finland and around 10,000 unregistered members are there in the country. More than 6000 Catholic families are there in the total country where 50 percentage is Finns and rest is International community.\n\n\nThere is a high demand for starting a new parish at Northern Finland at Rovaniemi as it is the major tourist destination for Lapland and Santa Claus.\n\nIn 1550 the episcopate of the last Roman Catholic bishop of Åbo ended. Thereafter Lutheranism prevailed in Finland. The Reformation in the sixteenth century caused the loss of almost all of Northern Europe to the Roman Catholic Church. In 1582 the stray Catholics in Finland and elsewhere in Northern Europe were placed under the jurisdiction of a papal nuncio in Cologne. The Congregation de propaganda fide, on its establishment in 1622, took charge of the vast missionary field, which - at its third session - it divided among the nuncio of Brussels (for the Catholics in Denmark and Norway), the nuncio at Cologne (much of Northern Germany) and the nuncio to Poland (Finland, Mecklenburg, and Sweden).\n\nIn 1688 Finland became part of the Apostolic Vicariate of the Nordic Missions. In 1783 the Apostolic Vicariate of Sweden was created out of parts of the Nordic Missions comprising then Finland and Sweden. In 1809, when Finland came under Russian rule, the Roman Catholic jurisdiction passed on to the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Mohilev (then seated in St. Petersburg). In 1920 the Vatican established the Apostolic Vicariate of Finland which was upgraded to the Diocese of Helsinki in 1955.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46802443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46802443", "title": "China's Super Consumers", "text": "China's Super Consumers\n\nChina's Super Consumers: What 1 Billion Customers Want and How to Sell It to Them is a 2014 nonfiction book by Savio S. Chan (陳少宏, Pinyin: \"Chén Shàohóng\") and Michael A. Zakkour, published by John Wiley and Sons. The book discusses how U.S. businesses may market products to customers in mainland China. Chan is the president and CEO of the consulting company US China Partners Inc., and Zakkour is a principal at Tompkins International, serving in its China/APAC sector.\n\nJack Maher, a Princeton in Asia fellow, wrote in the \"Asian Review of Books\" that \"China's Super Consumers\" did not factor into account the anti-corruption drives of Xi Jinping and the increase of Chinese domestic brands, and both aspects would require Western companies to take additional cautions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36171672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36171672", "title": "Districts of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands", "text": "Districts of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands\n\nThe districts of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands were the primary subdivisions of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.\n\nIn 1962 there existed six districts with the following population:\n\n\"In a 1975 plebiscite the Northern Marianas group voted to become a commonwealth of the United States and, from 1976, was administered separately from the rest of the territory. The remaining island groups were reorganized again into six districts...\", the Kosrae District was created out of the Pohnpei District, keeping six disctricts.\n"}
{"id": "6916710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6916710", "title": "Doyle's Delight", "text": "Doyle's Delight\n\nDoyle's Delight is the highest peak in Belize at . It lies in the Cockscomb Range, a spur of the Maya Mountains in Western Belize.\n\nThe name Doyle's Delight was first coined by Sharon Matola in a 1989 report. The name is based on Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's book \"The Lost World\" (1912), which contains the quote \"there must be something wild and wonderful in a country such as this, and we're the men to find it out!\".\n\nThis name has meanwhile achieved widespread acceptance. The official Government of Belize Website lists Doyle's Delight as the highest point in Belize. The capital of Belize, Belmopan, has a \"Doyle's Delight Street\". Recently there has been an attempt to rename the peak to \"Kaan Witz\" which is Maya for \"Sky Mountain\", but the new name has not gained widespread acceptance.\n\nAlthough Victoria Peak was for many years touted as the highest point in Belize, recent assessments determined that it is apparently slightly lower at . Victoria Peak is located east of the Maya Mountain Divide in the Stann Creek District, and in clear weather its dramatic peak is visible from the coast. Doyle’s Delight is located in the heart of the Maya Mountains and is part of a more gently sloping range, with no dramatic peak.\n\nThere is a clearing on the peak that is maintained by the Belize Defence Force and the British Military as a helicopter landing. In 1970, a survey marker was placed at the high point of the ridge.\n\nIn 2004 and 2007 ecologists reached the summit by using a helicopter and surveyed Doyle’s Delight and adjacent ridges to better understand the ecology and biodiversity of the region. These efforts focused on plants, fungi, insects, amphibians, birds, and small mammals, and produced preliminary inventory data for the area.\n\nTwo notable expeditions by mountaineers, in 2007 and 2008, reached the summit by hiking and climbing for eight days through the virgin jungle. The second expedition members included: Bruno Kuppinger (Germany), Christian Rodriguez (Guatemala), Douglas Leonardo (Guatemala), Emilino Sho (Belize), Alfredo, and Erick Cho (Belize).\n\n"}
{"id": "7748358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7748358", "title": "Earth inductor compass", "text": "Earth inductor compass\n\nThe Earth inductor compass (or simply induction compass) is a compass that determines directions using the principle of electromagnetic induction, with the Earth's magnetic field acting as the induction field for an electric generator. The electrical output of the generator will vary depending on its orientation with respect to the Earth's magnetic field. This variation in the generated voltage is measured, allowing the Earth inductor compass to determine direction.\n\nThe earth inductor compass was first patented by Donald M. Bliss in 1912 and further refined in the 1920s by Paul R. Heyl and Lyman James Briggs of the United States National Bureau of Standards, and in 1924 by Morris Titterington at the Pioneer Instrument Company in Brooklyn, New York. Heyl and Briggs were awarded the Magellan Medal of the American Philosophical Society for this work in 1922. Designed to compensate for the weaknesses of the magnetic compass, the Earth inductor compass provided pilots with a more stable and reliable reference instrument. They were used in the Douglas World Cruisers in 1924 during the Around-the-World flight by the U.S. Army Air Corps. Charles Lindbergh used the compass on his transatlantic flight in the Spirit of St. Louis in 1927. Over the transatlantic leg of his voyage - a distance of about - he was able to navigate with a cumulative error of about in landfall, or less than one percent of the distance travelled, by computing his position at hourly intervals by dead reckoning with the induction compass.\n\nBliss' original design consisted of two armatures spinning on a single vertical axle. One armature was connected to commutators that were 90 degrees offset from the commutators connected to the other armature. When one set of commutators is aligned with the earth's magnetic field no current is produced, but an offset angle creates a positive or negative current in proportion to the sine of the offset angle. Since the sine of the angle peaks at 90 degrees, a reading could indicate either a certain direction or the exact opposite direction. The solution to this was a second armature with commutators offset by 90 degrees to help distinguish the two opposite directions.\n\nThe direction of travel was read by comparing the indications on two independent galvanometers, one for each armature. The galvanometers had to be calibrated with the correct headings, since the voltage was proportional to the sine of the angle. Readings could be impacted by the armature's speed of rotation and by stray magnetic fields.\n\nLater versions simplified readings to show the offset from the intended heading, rather than the full range of compass directions. The revised design allowed the user to rotate the commutators in such a way that zero current would be produced when the craft was traveling in the intended direction. A single galvanometer was then used to show if the pilot was steering too far to the left or to the right.\n\nLindberg's compass used an anemometer to spin the armature through a universal joint. The armature was mounted on gimbals to prevent it from tilting with the airplane's pitch and roll. Tilting the armature could have changed the angle of the Earth's flux to the armature, resulting in erroneous readings. The gyroscopic effect of the spinning armature also helped to keep it properly aligned.\n\n"}
{"id": "55527370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55527370", "title": "East Woody Island", "text": "East Woody Island\n\nEast Woody Island (Yolŋu: \"Dhamitjinya\"), is an island in Australia. It is located in East Arnhem Land in the Northern Territory. The closest town is Nhulunbuy. A sand spit connects the island to the Australian mainland.\n"}
{"id": "52162600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52162600", "title": "Ecological civilization", "text": "Ecological civilization\n\nEcological civilization is the final goal of social and environmental reform within a given society. It implies that the changes required in response to global climate disruption and social injustices are so extensive as to represent another form of human civilization, one based on ecological principles. Broadly construed, ecological civilization involves a synthesis of economic, educational, political, agricultural, and other societal reforms toward sustainability. \n\nAlthough the term was first coined in the 1980s, it did not see widespread use until 2007, when “ecological civilization” became an explicit goal of the Communist Party of China (CPC). In April 2014, the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations and the International Ecological Safety Collaborative Organization founded a sub-committee on ecological civilization. Proponents of ecological civilization agree with Pope Francis who writes, \"We are faced not with two separate crises, one environmental and the other social, but rather with one complex crisis which is both social and environmental. Strategies for a solution demand an integrated approach to combating poverty, restoring dignity to the excluded, and at the same time protecting nature.\" As such, ecological civilization emphasizes the need for major environmental and social reforms that are both long-term and systemic in orientation.\n\nIn 1984, former Soviet Union environment experts proposed the term “Ecological Culture” (экологической культуры) in an article entitled “Ways of Fostering Ecological Culture in Individuals under the Conditions of Mature Socialism\" which was published in \"Scientific Communism\", Moscow, vol. 2. A summary of this article was published in the Chinese newspaper the Guangming Daily, where the notion of ecological culture was translated into Chinese as 生态文明 (shēngtài wénmíng), or ecological civilization.\n\nTwo years later, the concept of ecological civilization was picked up in China, and was first used by Ye Qianji (1909–2017), an agricultural economist, in 1987. Professor Ye defined ecological civilization by drawing from the ecological sciences and environmental philosophy.\n\nThe first time the phrase “ecological civilization” was used as a technical term in an English-language book was in 1995. Roy Morrison, an environmentalist, coined the phrase in his book \"Ecological Democracy\", writing that “An ecological civilization is based on diverse lifeways sustaining linked natural and social ecologies.”\n\nThe term is found more extensively in Chinese discussions beginning in 2007. In 2012, the Communist Party of China (CPC) included the goal of achieving an ecological civilization in its constitution, and it also featured in its five-year plan. In the Chinese context, the term generally presupposes the framework of a “constructive postmodernism,” as opposed to an extension of modernist practices or a “deconstructive postmodernism,” which stems from the deconstruction of Jacques Derrida.\n\nBoth “ecological civilization” and “constructive postmodernism” have been associated with the process philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead. David Ray Griffin, a process philosopher and professor at Claremont School of Theology, first used the term “constructive postmodernism” in his 1989 book, \"Varieties of Postmodern Theology\".\n\nThe largest international conference held on the theme “ecological civilization” (\"Seizing an Alternative: Toward an Ecological Civilization\") took place at Pomona College in June 2015, bringing together roughly 2,000 participants from around the world and featuring such leaders in the environmental movement as Bill McKibben, Vandana Shiva, John B. Cobb, Jr., Wes Jackson, and Sheri Liao.\n\nSince 2015, the Chinese discussion of ecological civilization is increasingly associated with an “organic” form of Marxism. “Organic Marxism” was first used by Philip Clayton and Justin Heinzekehr in their 2014 book, \"Organic Marxism: An Alternative to Capitalism and Ecological Catastrophe\". The book, which was translated into Chinese and published by the People’s Press in 2015, describes ecological civilization as an orienting goal for the global ecological movement.\n\nA defence of ecological civilization as the ultimate goal of humanity, has been mounted by Arran Gare in\n\"The Philosophical Foundations of Ecological Civilization: A Manifesto for the Future\", which was published in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "53840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53840", "title": "Galveston, Texas", "text": "Galveston, Texas\n\nGalveston ( ) is a coastal resort city and port off the southeast coast on Galveston Island and Pelican Island in the American State of Texas. The community of , with an estimated population of 50,180 in 2015, is the county seat of surrounding Galveston County and second-largest municipality in the county. It is also within the Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area at its southern end on the northwestern coast of the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nGalveston, or Galvez' town, was named after the Spanish military and political leader in the 18th century: Bernardo de Gálvez y Madrid, Count of Gálvez (1746-1786), who was born in Macharaviaya, Málaga, in the Kingdom of Spain. Galveston's first European settlements on the Galveston Island were built around 1816 by French pirate Louis-Michel Aury to help the fledgling Republic of Mexico fight for independence from Spain, along with other colonies in the Western Hemisphere of the Americas in Central and South America in the 1810s and 1820s. The Port of Galveston was established in 1825 by the Congress of Mexico following its independence from Spain. The city was the main port for the fledging Texas Navy during the Texas Revolution of 1836, and later served temporarily as the new national capital of the now independent Republic of Texas.\n\nDuring the 19th century, Galveston became a major U.S. commercial center and one of the largest ports in the United States. It was for a time, Texas' largest city, known as the \"Queen City of the Gulf\". It was devastated by the unexpected surprising Galveston Hurricane of 1900, whose effects included massive flooding and a storm surge which almost completely destroyed and wiped out the town. The natural disaster on the exposed barrier island is still ranked today as the deadliest in United States history, with an estimated death toll of 6,000 to 12,000 people. The city subsequently reemerged during the Prohibition era of 1919-1933 as a leading tourist hub and a center of illegal gambling nicknamed the Free State of Galveston until this era ended in the 1950s with subsequent other economic and social development.\n\nMuch of Galveston's economy is centered in the tourism, health care, shipping, and financial industries. The University of Texas Medical Branch campus with an enrollment of more than 2,500 students is a major economic force of the city. Galveston is home to six historic districts containing one of the largest and historically significant collections of 19th-century buildings in the U.S., with over 60 structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places, maintained by the National Park Service in the United States Department of the Interior.\n\nGalveston Island was originally inhabited by members of the Karankawa and Akokisa tribes who called the island \"Auia\". The Spanish explorer Cabeza de Vaca and his crew were shipwrecked on the island or nearby in November 1528, calling it \"Isla de Malhado\" (\"Isle of Bad Fate\"). They began their years-long trek to a Spanish settlement in Mexico City. During his charting of the Gulf Coast in 1785, the Spanish explorer José de Evia named the island Villa Gálvez or \"Gálveztown\" in honor of Bernardo de Gálvez y Madrid, Count of Gálvez (1746-1786).\n\nThe island's first permanent European settlements were constructed around 1816 by the pirate Louis-Michel Aury to support Mexico's rebellion against Spain. In 1817, Aury returned from an unsuccessful raid against Spain to find Galveston occupied by the pirate Jean Lafitte. Lafitte organized Galveston into a pirate \"kingdom\" he called \"Campeche\", anointing himself the island's \"head of government.\" Lafitte remained in Galveston until 1821, when the United States Navy forced him and his raiders off the island.\n\nIn 1825 the Congress of Mexico established the Port of Galveston and in 1830 erected a customs house. Galveston served as the capital of the Republic of Texas when in 1836 the interim president David G. Burnet relocated his government there. In 1836, the French-Canadian Michel Branamour Menard and several associates purchased of land for $50,000 to found the town that would become the modern city of Galveston. As Anglo-Americans migrated to the city, they brought along or purchased enslaved African-Americans, some of whom worked domestically or on the waterfront, including on riverboats.\n\nIn 1839, the City of Galveston adopted a charter and was incorporated by the Congress of the Republic of Texas. The city was by then a burgeoning port of entry and attracted many new residents in the 1840s and later among the flood of German immigrants to Texas, including Jewish merchants. Together with ethnic Mexican residents, these groups tended to oppose slavery, support the Union during the Civil War, and join the Republican Party after the war.\n\nDuring this expansion, the city had many \"firsts\" in the state, with the founding of institutions and adoption of inventions: post office (1836), naval base (1836), Texas chapter of a Masonic order (1840); cotton compress (1842), Catholic parochial school (Ursuline Academy) (1847), insurance company (1854), and gas lights (1856).\n\nDuring the American Civil War, Confederate forces under Major General John B. Magruder attacked and expelled occupying Union troops from the city in January 1863 in the Battle of Galveston. In 1867 Galveston suffered a yellow fever epidemic; 1800 people died in the city. These occurred in waterfront and river cities throughout the 19th century, as did cholera epidemics.\n\nThe city's progress continued through the Reconstruction era with numerous \"firsts\": construction of the opera house (1870), and orphanage (1876), and installation of telephone lines (1878) and electric lights (1883). Having attracted freedmen from rural areas, in 1870 the city had a black population that totaled 3,000, made up mostly of former slaves but also by persons who were free men of color and educated before the war. The \"blacks\" comprised nearly 25% of the city's population of 13,818 that year.\n\nDuring the post-Civil-War period, leaders such as George T. Ruby and Norris Wright Cuney, who headed the Texas Republican Party and promoted civil rights for freedmen, helped to dramatically improve educational and employment opportunities for blacks in Galveston and in Texas. Cuney established his own business of stevedores and a union of black dockworkers to break the white monopoly on dock jobs. Galveston was a cosmopolitan city and one of the more successful during Reconstruction; the Freedmen's Bureau was headquartered here. German families sheltered teachers from the North, and hundreds of freedmen were taught to read. Its business community promoted progress, and immigrants stayed after arriving at this port of entry.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the city of Galveston had a population of 37,000. Its position on the natural harbor of Galveston Bay along the Gulf of Mexico made it the center of trade in Texas. It was one of the nation's largest cotton ports, in competition with New Orleans. Throughout the 19th century, the port city of Galveston grew rapidly and the Strand was considered the region's primary business center. For a time, the Strand was known as the \"Wall Street of the South\". In the late 1890s, the government constructed Fort Crockett defenses and coastal artillery batteries in Galveston and along the Bolivar Roads. In February 1897, the \"USS Texas\" (nicknamed Old Hoodoo), the first commissioned battleship of the United States Navy, visited Galveston. During the festivities, the ship's officers were presented with a $5,000 silver service, adorned with various Texas motifs, as a gift from the state's citizens.\n\nOn September 8, 1900, the island was struck by a devastating hurricane. This event holds the record as the United States' deadliest natural disaster. The city was devastated, and an estimated 6,000 to 8,000 people on the island were killed. Following the storm, a long, high seawall was built to protect the city from floods and hurricane storm surges. A team of engineers including Henry Martyn Robert (Robert's Rules of Order) designed the plan to raise much of the existing city to a sufficient elevation behind a seawall so that confidence in the city could be maintained. \n\nThe city developed the city commission form of city government, known as the \"Galveston Plan\", to help expedite recovery.\n\nDespite attempts to draw investment to the city after the hurricane, Galveston never returned to its levels of national importance or prosperity. Development was also hindered by the construction of the Houston Ship Channel, which brought the Port of Houston into competition with the natural harbor of the Port of Galveston for sea traffic. To further her recovery, and rebuild her population, Galveston actively solicited immigration. Through the efforts of Rabbi Henry Cohen and Congregation B'nai Israel, Galveston became the focus of an immigration plan called the Galveston Movement that, between 1907 and 1914, diverted roughly 10,000 Eastern European Jewish immigrants from the usual destinations of the crowded cities of the Northeastern United States. Additionally numerous other immigrant groups, including Greeks, Italians and Russian Jews, came to the city during this period. This immigration trend substantially altered the ethnic makeup of the island, as well as many other areas of Texas and the western U.S.\n\nThough the storm stalled economic development and the city of Houston developed as the region's principal metropolis, Galveston economic leaders recognized the need to diversify from the traditional port-related industries. In 1905 William Lewis Moody, Jr. and Isaac H. Kempner, members of two of Galveston's leading families founded the American National Insurance Company. Two years later, Moody established the City National Bank, which would become the Moody National Bank.\n\nDuring the 1920s and 1930s, the city re-emerged as a major tourist destination. Under the influence of Sam Maceo and Rosario Maceo, the city exploited the prohibition of liquor and gambling in clubs like the Balinese Room, which offered entertainment to wealthy Houstonians and other out-of-towners. Combined with prostitution, which had existed in the city since the Civil War, Galveston became known as the \"sin city\" of the Gulf. Galvestonians accepted and supported the illegal activities, often referring to their island as the \"Free State of Galveston\". The island had entered what would later become known as the \"open era\".\n\nThe 1930s and 1940s brought much change to the Island City. During World War II, the Galveston Municipal Airport, predecessor to Scholes International Airport, was re-designated a U.S. Army Air Corps base and named \"Galveston Army Air Field\". In January 1943, Galveston Army Air Field was officially activated with the 46th Bombardment Group serving an anti-submarine role in the Gulf of Mexico. In 1942, William Lewis Moody, Jr., along with his wife Libbie Shearn Rice Moody, established the Moody Foundation, to benefit \"present and future generations of Texans.\" The foundation, one of the largest in the United States, would play a prominent role in Galveston during later decades, helping to fund numerous civic and health-oriented programs.\n\nThe end of the war drastically reduced military investment in the island. Increasing enforcement of gambling laws and the growth of Las Vegas, Nevada as a competitive center of gambling and entertainment put pressure on the gaming industry on the island. Finally in 1957, Texas Attorney General Will Wilson and the Texas Rangers began a massive campaign of raids which disrupted gambling and prostitution in the city. As these vice industries crashed, so did tourism, taking the rest of the Galveston economy with it. Neither the economy nor the culture of the city was the same afterward.\n\nThe island's economy began a long stagnation. Many businesses relocated off the island during this period; however, health care, insurance and financial industries continue to be strong contributors to the economy. By 1959, the city of Houston had long out-paced Galveston in population and economic growth. Beginning in 1957, the Galveston Historical Foundation began its efforts to preserve historic buildings. The 1966 book \"The Galveston That Was\" helped encourage the preservation movement. Restoration efforts financed by motivated investors, notably Houston businessman George P. Mitchell, gradually developed the Strand Historic District and reinvented other areas. A new, family-oriented tourism emerged in the city over many years.\n\nWith the 1960s came the expansion of higher education in Galveston. Already home to the University of Texas Medical Branch, the city got a boost in 1962 with the creation of the Texas Maritime Academy, predecessor of Texas A&M University at Galveston; and by 1967 a community college, Galveston College, had been established.\n\nIn the 2000s, property values rose after expensive projects were completed and demand for second homes by the wealthy increased. It has made it difficult for middle-class workers to find affordable housing on the island.\n\nHurricane Ike made landfall on Galveston Island in the early morning of September 13, 2008 as a Category 2 hurricane with winds of 110 miles per hour. Damage was extensive to buildings along the seawall.\n\nAfter the storm, the island was rebuilt with investments in tourism, shipping, and continued emphasis on higher education and health care. Notably the addition of the Galveston Island Historic Pleasure Pier and the replacement of the bascule-type drawbridge on the railroad causeway with a vertical-lift-type drawbridge to allow heavier freight.\n\nThe city of Galveston is situated on Galveston Island, a barrier island off the Texas Gulf coast near the mainland coast. Made up of mostly sand-sized particles and smaller amounts of finer mud sediments and larger gravel-sized sediments, the island is unstable, affected by water and weather, and can shift its boundaries through erosion.\n\nThe city is about southeast of downtown Houston. The island is oriented generally northeast-southwest, with the Gulf of Mexico on the east and south, West Bay on the west, and Galveston Bay on the north. The island's main access point from the mainland is the Interstate Highway 45 causeway that crosses West Bay on the island's northeast side.\n\nA deepwater channel connects Galveston's harbor with the Gulf and the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has an area of , of which are land and , or 80.31%, are water. The island is southeast of Houston.\n\nThe western portion of Galveston is referred to as the \"West End\". Communities in eastern Galveston include Lake Madeline, Offats Bayou, Central City, Fort Crockett, Bayou Shore, Lasker Park, Carver Park, Kempner Park, Old City/Central Business District, San Jacinto, East End, and Lindale. As of 2009 many residents of the west end use golf carts as transportation to take them to and from residential houses, the Galveston Island Country Club, and stores. In 2009, Chief of Police Charles Wiley said he believed golf carts should be prohibited outside golf courses, and West End residents campaigned against any ban on their use.\n\nIn 2011 Rice University released a study, \"Atlas of Sustainable Strategies for Galveston Island,\" which argued the West End of Galveston was quickly eroding and the City should reduce construction and/or population in that area. It recommended against any rebuilding of the West End in the event of damage from another hurricane.\n\nGalveston is home to six historic districts with over 60 structures listed representing architectural significance in the National Register of Historic Places. The Silk Stocking National Historic District, between Broadway and Seawall Boulevard and bounded by Ave. K, 23rd St., Ave. P, and 26th St., contains a collection of historic homes constructed from the Civil War through World War II. The East End Historic District on both sides of Broadway and Market Streets, contains 463 buildings. Other historic districts include Cedar Lawn, Denver Court and Fort Travis.\n\nThe Strand National Historic Landmark District is a National Historic Landmark District of mainly Victorian era buildings that have been adapted for use as restaurants, antique stores, historical exhibits, museums and art galleries. The area is a major tourist attraction for the island city. It is the center for two very popular seasonal festivals. It is widely considered the island's shopping and entertainment center. Today, \"the Strand\" is generally used to refer to the five-block business district between 20th and 25th streets in downtown Galveston, near the city's wharf.\n\nSince the early 20th century, Galveston has been popularly known as the 'Oleander City' because of a long history of cultivating Nerium oleander, a subtropical evergreen shrub which thrives on the island. Oleanders are a defining feature of the city; when flowering (between April and October) they add masses of color to local gardens, parks, and streets. Thousands were planted in the recovery following the Hurricane of 1900 and Galvestonians continue to treasure the plant for its' low water needs, tolerance of heat, salt spray and sandy soils. This makes them especially resistant to the after-effects of hurricanes and tropical storms. Galveston is reputed to have the most diverse range of Oleander cultivars in the world, numbering over 100, with many varieties developed in the city and named after prominent Galvestonians. In 2005 the month of May was declared \"Oleander Month\" by the City of Galveston and there are also Oleander-themed tours of the city exploring the history of the plant on the island. Since 1967 the International Oleander Society has operated in Galveston, which promotes the cultivation of the plant, organizes an Oleander festival every spring and maintains a commemorative Oleander garden in the city.\n\nGalveston's climate is classified as humid subtropical (\"Cfa\" in ), and is part of USDA Plant hardiness zone 9b. Prevailing winds from the south and southeast bring moisture from the Gulf of Mexico. Summer temperatures regularly exceed and the area's humidity drives the heat index even higher, while nighttime lows average around . Winters in the area are temperate with typical January highs above and lows near . Snowfall is generally rare; however, of snow fell in February 1895, making the 1894–95 winter the snowiest on record. Annual rainfall averages well over a year with some areas typically receiving over . Temperatures reaching or are quite rare, having last occurred on December 23, 1989 and June 25, 2012, respectively. Record temperatures range from on February 12, 1899, up to on September 5, 2000; the record cold maximum is on February 7, 1895 and again on the date of the all-time low, while, conversely, the record warm minimum is set on multiple dates.\n\nHurricanes are an ever-present threat during the summer and fall season, which puts Galveston in Coastal Windstorm Area. Galveston Island and the Bolivar Peninsula are generally at the greatest risk among the communities near the Galveston Bay. However, though the island and peninsula provide some shielding, the bay shoreline still faces significant danger from storm surge.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 47,743 people, 19,943 households, and 10,779 families residing in the city. , the city had a total population of 50,550. The population density was 1,159 people per square mile (447/km). There were 32,368 housing units at an average density of 786 per square mile (303/km). The racial makeup of the city was 62.5% White, 19.2% Black or African American, 0.9% Native American, 3.2% Asian, <0.1% Pacific Islander, 11.0% from other races, and 3.3% from two or more races. 31.3% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. There were 19,943 households out of which 20.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 34.4% were married couples living together, 14.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 46.0% were non-families. 36.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.27 and the average family size was 3.02.\n\nIn the city, the population was 23.4% under the age of 13, 11.3% from 13 to 24, 29.8% from 25 to 44, 21.8% from 45 to 88, and 13.7% who were 89 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.4 males. For every 100 females age 13 and over, there were 90.4 males. The median income for a household in the city was $28,895, and the median income for a family was $35,049. Males had a median income of $30,150 versus $26,030 for females. The per capita income for the city was $18,275. About 17.8% of families and 22.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 32.1% of those under age 13 and 14.2% of those age 89 or over.\n\nThe Port of Galveston, also called Galveston Wharves, began as a trading post in 1825. Today, the port has grown to of port facilities. The port is located on the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, on the north side of Galveston Island, with some facilities on Pelican Island. The port has facilities to handle all types of cargo including containers, dry and liquid bulk, breakbulk, Roll-on/roll-off, refrigerated cargo and project cargoes.\n\nThe port also serves as a passenger cruise ship terminal for cruise ships operating in the Caribbean. The terminal was home port to two Carnival Cruise Lines vessels, the \"Carnival Conquest\" and the \"Carnival Ecstasy\". In November 2011 the company made Galveston home port to its 3,960-passenger mega-ships \"Carnival Magic\" and \"Carnival Triumph,\" as well. In 2015, \"Carnival Freedom\" relocated to Galveston, sailing seven-day cruises. Carnival replaced \"Carnival Magic\" and \"Carnival Triumph\" in the first half of 2016 with \"Carnival Breeze\" and \"Carnival Liberty\", respectively, but replaced \"Liberty\" with \"Carnival Valor\" later in the year due to mechanical issues. \"Carnival Breeze\" and \"Carnival Freedom\" sail seven-day Caribbean cruises, and \"Carnival Valor\" sails four- and five-day Caribbean cruises from Galveston. Carnival plans on replacing \"Breeze\" with \"Carnival Vista\" in 2018, and \"Valor\" with \"Carnival Dream\" in 2019. Galveston is the home port to Royal Caribbean International's, MS \"Liberty of the Seas\", which is the largest cruise ship ever based here and one of the largest ships in the world. In September 2012 Disney Cruise Line's \"Disney Magic\" also became based in Galveston, offering four-, six-, seven-, and eight-day cruises to the Caribbean and the Bahamas.\n\nAmerican National Insurance Company, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States, is based in Galveston. The company and its subsidiaries operate in all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and American Samoa. Through its subsidiary, American National de México, Compañía de Seguros de Vida, it provides products and services in Mexico. Moody National Bank, with headquarters in downtown Galveston, is one of the largest privately owned Texas-based banks. Its trust department, established in 1927, administers over 12 billion dollars in assets, one of the largest in the state. In addition, the regional headquarters of Iowa-based United Fire & Casualty Company are located in the city.\n\nIn the late 1800s Galveston was known as the \"Playground of the South\" Today, it still retains a shared claim to the title among major cities along the Gulf Coast states. Galveston is a popular tourist destination which in 2007 brought $808 million to the local economy and attracted 5.4 million visitors. The city features an array of lodging options, including hotels such as the historic Hotel Galvez and Tremont House, vintage bed and breakfast inns, beachfront condominiums, and resort rentals. The city's tourist attractions include the Galveston Island Historic Pleasure Pier, Galveston Schlitterbahn waterpark, Moody Gardens botanical park, the Ocean Star Offshore Drilling Rig & Museum, the Lone Star Flight Museum, Galveston Railroad Museum, a downtown neighborhood of historic buildings known as The Strand, many historical museums and mansions, and miles of beach front from the East End's Porretto Beach, Stewart Beach to the West End pocket parks. Previously Galveston had a aquarium theme park called Sea-Arama Marineworld, which opened in 1965, closed in January 1990, and was demolished in 2006.\n\nThe Strand plays host to a yearly Mardi Gras festival, Galveston Island Jazz & Blues Festival and a Victorian-themed Christmas festival called Dickens on the Strand (honoring the works of novelist Charles Dickens, especially \"A Christmas Carol\") in early December. Galveston is home to several historic ships: the tall ship \"Elissa\" (the official Tall Ship of Texas) at the Texas Seaport Museum and USS \"Cavalla\" and USS Stewart, both berthed at Seawolf Park on nearby Pelican Island. Galveston is ranked the number one cruise port on the Gulf Coast and fourth in the United States.\n\nIncorporated in 1986, Galveston Arts Center (GAC) is a non-profit, non-collecting arts organization. The center exhibits contemporary art, often by Texas-based artists, and offers educational and outreach programs. Notably, GAC organizes and produces Galveston ArtWalk. Museum entry is free to the public, although cash donations are welcomed. Tiered membership options and a range of volunteer opportunities are also available.\n\nIn October 2015, Galveston Arts Center will celebrate relocation to its original home, the historic 1878 First National Bank Building on the Strand. This Italianate-style 1900 Storm survivor was extensively damaged during Hurricane Ike in 2008. Fortunately, just weeks before Ike made landfall, scaffolding was installed to support the entire structural load of the building for repairs, likely preventing collapse under heavy winds and storm surge. After a lengthy fundraising campaign, restoration is nearing completion.\n\nArtWalk takes place approximately every six weeks on Saturday evenings throughout the year. ArtWalk is organized by Galveston Arts Center, which releases an ArtWalk brochure featuring a map of participating venues as well as descriptions of shows and exhibits. Venues include GAC, Galveston Artist Residency and artist’s studios and galleries. Additionally, art is shown in “other walls”—for example MOD Coffeehouse or Mosquito Cafe—or outdoors at Art Market on Market Street. Musicians perform outdoors and at venues such as the Proletariat Gallery & Public House or Old Quarter Acoustic Cafe. While most ArtWalk events are concentrated downtown, there are a number or participants elsewhere on the island.\n\nGalveston is home to the Galveston Symphony Orchestra, an ensemble of amateur and professional musicians formed in 1979 under the direction of Richard W. Pickar, Musical Director-Conductor.\n\nThe Galveston Ballet is a regional pre-professional ballet company and academy serving Galveston county. The company presents one full-length classical ballet in the spring of each year and one mixed repertory program in the fall, both presented at the Grand 1894 Opera House.\n\nGalveston Artist Residency (GAR) grants studio space, living space and a stipend to three visual artists each year. Resident artists work in a variety of mediums and exhibit their work in the GAR Gallery and Courtyards. Located in renovated industrial structures on the west side of downtown, GAR also hosts performances and other public events.\n\nThe National Hotel Artist Lofts (NHAL) is an Artspace-developed property featuring twenty-seven live/work units designated as affordable housing for artists. The project brought new life to the historic E.S. Levy Building, which was left abandoned for twenty years. Originally built as the Tremont Opera House in 1870, the structure was extensively renovated to serve various functions, from offices and stores to the National Hotel. The building also housed the U.S. National Weather Bureau's Galveston office under Isaac Cline during the 1900 Storm.\n\nUnder Property Manager/Creative Director Becky Major, the unused retail space in the front of the building found a new purpose as a DIY art and music venue, despite its gutted and undeveloped state. In May 2015, the newly renovated space reopened as the Proletariat Gallery & Public House. This bar and gallery provides a common area for NHAL and neighborhood residents and a cultural hub for the broader community. Visual art, events and live music are regularly hosted in the space.\n\nGalveston contains a large and historically significant collection of 19th-century buildings in the United States. Galveston's architectural preservation and revitalization efforts over several decades have earned national recognition.\n\nLocated in the Strand District, the Grand 1894 Opera House is a restored historic Romanesque Revival style Opera House that is currently operated as a not-for-profit performing arts theater. The Bishop's Palace, also known as Gresham's Castle, is an ornate Victorian house located on Broadway and 14th Street in the East End Historic District of Galveston, Texas. The American Institute of Architects listed Bishop's Palace as one of the 100 most significant buildings in the United States, and the Library of Congress has classified it as one of the fourteen most representative Victorian structures in the nation.\n\nThe Galvez Hotel is a historic hotel that opened in 1911. The building was named the Galvez, honoring Bernardo de Gálvez y Madrid, Count of Gálvez, for whom the city was named. The hotel was added to the National Register of Historic Places on April 4, 1979. The Michel B. Menard House, built in 1838 and oldest in Galveston, is designed in the Greek revival style. In 1880, the house was bought by Edwin N. Ketchum who was police chief of the city during the 1900 Storm. The Ketchum family owned the home until the 1970s. The red-brick Victorian Italianate home, Ashton Villa, was constructed in 1859 by James Moreau Brown. One of the first brick structures in Texas, it is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is a recorded Texas Historic Landmark. The structure is also the site of what was to become the holiday known as Juneteenth, where on June 19, 1865, Union General Gordon Granger, standing on its balcony, read the contents of \"General Order No. 3\", thereby emancipating all slaves in the state of Texas.\nSt. Joseph's Church was built by German immigrants in 1859–60 and is the oldest wooden church building in Galveston and the oldest German Catholic Church in Texas. The church was dedicated in April 1860, to St. Joseph, the patron saint of laborers. The building is a wooden gothic revival structure, rectangular with a square bell tower with trefoil window. The U.S. Custom House began construction in 1860 and was completed in 1861. The Confederate Army occupied the building during the American Civil War, In 1865, the Custom House was the site of the ceremony officially ending the Civil War.\n\nGalveston's modern architecture include the American National Insurance Company Tower (One Moody Plaza), San Luis Resort South and North Towers, The Breakers Condominiums, The Galvestonian Resort and Condos, One Shearn Moody Plaza, US National Bank Building, the Rainforest Pyramid at Moody Gardens, John Sealy Hospital Towers at UTMB and Medical Arts Building (also known as Two Moody Plaza).\n\nNotable statues and sculptures in Galveston include:\n\nAfter the hurricane of 1900, the city originated the City Commission form of city government (which became known as the \"Galveston Plan\"). The city has since adopted the council-manager form of government. Galveston's city council serves as the city's legislative branch, while the city manager works as the chief executive officer, and the municipal court system serves as the city's judicial branch. The city council and mayor promote ordinances to establish municipal policies. The Galveston City Council consists of six elected positions, each derived from a specified electoral district. Each city council member is elected to a two-year term, while the mayor is elected to a two-year term. The city council appoints the city manager, the city secretary, the city auditor, the city attorney, and the municipal judge. The city's Tax Collector is determined by the city council and is outsourced to Galveston County. The city manager hires employees, promotes development, presents and administers the budget, and implements city council policies. Joe Jaworski is mayor, having replaced term-limited Lyda Ann Thomas May 2010. Jaworski is also the grandson of Leon Jaworski, United States Special Prosecutor during the Watergate Scandal in the 1970s.\n\nGalveston is the seat and second-largest city (after League City, Texas) of Galveston County in population. The Galveston County Justice Center, which houses all the county's judicial functions as well as jail, is located on 59th street. The Galveston County Administrative Courthouse, the seat of civil and administrative functions, is located near the city's downtown. Galveston is within the County Precinct 1; Patrick Doyle serves as the Commissioner of Precinct 1. The Galveston County Sheriff's Office operates its law enforcement headquarters and jail from the Justice Center. The Galveston County Department of Parks and Senior Services operates the Galveston Community Center. Galveston is located in District 23 of the Texas House of Representatives. , Craig Eiland represents the district. Most of Galveston is within District 17 of the Texas Senate; Joan Huffman represents the district. A portion of Galveston is within District 11 of the Texas Senate; Mike Jackson represents the district. Galveston is in Texas's 14th congressional district and is represented by Republican Randy Weber .\n\nEstablished in 1891 with one building and fewer than 50 students, today the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) campus has grown to more than 70 buildings and an enrollment of more than 2,500 students. The campus includes schools of medicine, nursing, allied health professions, and a graduate school of biomedical sciences, as well as three institutes for advanced studies & medical humanities, a major medical library, seven hospitals, a network of clinics that provide a full range of primary and specialized medical care, and numerous research facilities.\n\nGalveston is home to two post-secondary institutions offering traditional degrees in higher education. Galveston College, a junior college that opened in 1967, and Texas A&M University at Galveston, an ocean-oriented branch campus of Texas A&M University.\n\nThe city of Galveston is served by Galveston Independent School District, which includes six elementary schools, two middle schools and one high school, Ball High School. There is also one magnet middle school, Austin Middle School, serving grades 5 through 8.\n\nGalveston has several state-funded charter schools not affiliated with local school districts, including kindergarten through 8th grade Ambassadors Preparatory Academy and pre-kindergarten through 8th Grade Odyssey Academy. In addition opened KIPP Coastal Village in Galveston under the auspices of GISD.\n\nSeveral private schools exist in Galveston. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston operates two Roman Catholic private schools, including Holy Family Catholic School (K through 8th) and O'Connell College Preparatory School (9-12). Other private schools include Satori Elementary School, Trinity Episcopal School, Seaside Christian Academy, and Heritage Christian Academy.\n\nThe \"Galveston County Daily News\", founded in 1842, is the city's primary newspaper and the oldest continuously printed newspaper in Texas. It currently serves as the newspaper of record for the city and the Texas City Post serves as the newspaper of record for the County. Radio station KGBC, on air from 1947–2010, has previously served as a local media outlet. Television station KHOU signed on the air as KGUL-TV on March 23, 1953. Originally licensed in Galveston, KGUL was the second television station to launch in the Houston area after KPRC-TV. One of the original investors in the station was actor James Stewart, along with a small group of other Galveston investors. In June 1959, KGUL changed its call sign to KHOU and moved their main office to Houston. The local hip hop name for Galveston is \"G-town.\"\n\nGalveston is the home of several of the largest teaching hospitals in the state, located on the campus of the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. Prior to Hurricane Ike, the University employed more than 12,000 people. Its significant growth in the 1970s and 1980s was attributable to a uniquely qualified management and medical faculty including: Mr. John Thompson; Dr. William James McGanity, Dr. William Levin, Dr. David Daeschner and many more.\n\nIke severely damaged the 550-bed John Sealy Hospital causing the University of Texas System Board of Regents to cut nearly one-third of the hospital staff. Since the storm, the regents have committed to spending $713 million to restore the campus, construct new medical towers, and return John Sealy Hospital to its 550-bed pre-storm capacity.\n\nIn 2011, the UT Board of Regents approved the construction of a new 13 story hospital that will be located next to John Sealy Hospital. Construction will begin in the fall of 2011, with the demolition of the old Jennie Sealy and Shriners hospitals, and continue until completion in 2016. The facility will have 250 room, 20 operating suites and 54 intensive care beds. When the new hospital is complete, along with the renovations at John Sealy, both complexes will have around 600 beds.\n\nThe university reopened their Level I Trauma Center on August 1, 2009 which had been closed for eleven months after the hurricane and, , had reopened 370 hospital beds.\n\nThe city is also home to a 30-bed acute burns hospital for children, the Shriners Burns Hospital at Galveston. The Galveston hospital is one of only four in the chain of 22 non-profit Shriners hospitals, that provides acute burns care. Although the Galveston Hospital was damaged by Hurricane Ike, the Shriners national convention held in July 2009 voted to repair and reopen the hospital.\n\nThe Galveston Fire Department provides fire protection services through six fire stations and 17 pieces of apparatus. The Galveston Police Department has provided the city's police protection for more than 165 years. Over 170 authorized officers serve in three divisions.\n\nThe city is served by the Rosenberg Library, successor to the Galveston Mercantile Library, which was founded in 1871. It is the oldest public library in the State of Texas. The library also serves as headquarters of the Galveston County Library System, and its librarian also functions as the Galveston County Librarian.\n\nThe Galveston Division of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, the first federal court in Texas, is based in Galveston and has jurisdiction over the counties of Galveston, Brazoria, Chambers and Matagorda. It is housed in the United States Post Office, Customs House and Court House federal building in downtown Galveston. The United States Postal Service operates several post offices in Galveston, including the Galveston Main Post Office and the Bob Lyons Post Office Station. In addition the post office has a contract postal unit at the Medical Branch Unit on the campus of the University of Texas Medical Branch and the West Galveston Contract Postal Unit, located on the west end of Galveston Island in the beachside community of Jamaica Beach.\n\nScholes International Airport at Galveston is a two-runway airport in Galveston; the airport is primarily used for general aviation, offshore energy transportation, and some limited military operations. The nearest commercial airline service for the city is operated out of Houston through William P. Hobby Airport and George Bush Intercontinental Airport. The University of Texas Medical Branch has two heliports, one for Ewing Hall and one for its emergency room.\n\nThe Galveston Railway, originally established and named in 1854 as the Galveston Wharf and Cotton Press Company, is a Class III terminal switching railroad that primarily serves the transportation of cargo to and from the Port of Galveston. The railway operates of yard track at Galveston, over a facility. The Galveston Railroad today owned Rail Link Inc. interchanges with the Union Pacific Railroad Company and BNSF Railway Company on Galveston Island. The two class one Railroads reach Galveston by way of a new vertical lift railroad causeway bridge that crosses Galveston Bay next to the Interstate-45 bridge.\n\nJohn D. Groesbeck surveyed and mapped the town in 1837 and 1838 on behalf of the Galveston City Company. A new Galveston resident most recently from New York City, he laid out the streets based on a gridiron, and named the east–west avenues according to letters of the alphabet, with Avenue A running along the back bay on the north side of the island. He assigned numbers to names of north–south streets, with First Street on the far eastern side of the grid, and the numbered street names increased as they progressed westward. The names of some of the avenues changed over the years. Most notably, Avenue B became known as The Strand, and Avenue J became known as Broadway, a major thoroughfare which runs from the Interstate-45 viaduct to Seawall Boulevard.\n\nInterstate 45 has a southern terminus in Galveston and serves as a main artery to Galveston from mainland Galveston County and Houston. Farm to Market Road 3005 (locally called Seawall Boulevard) connects Galveston to Brazoria County via the San Luis Pass-Vacek Toll Bridge. State Highway 87, known locally as Broadway Street, connects the island to the Bolivar Peninsula via the Bolivar Ferry. A project to construct the proposed Bolivar Bridge to link Galveston to Bolivar Peninsula was cancelled in 2007.\n\nIsland Transit, which operates the Galveston Island Trolley manages the city's public transportation services. Intercity bus service to Galveston was previously operated by Kerrville Bus Company; following the company's acquisition by Coach USA, service was operated by Megabus. All regular intercity Bus Service is now handled by Island Transit ( aka Island Express).Island Express operates 3 times a weekday each way to Webster ( Bay Area Park n Ride ) to connect with Metro Lines 246/249 a Commuter Line to Downtown Houston. There is no weekend service.\n\nGalveston is served by Amtrak's \"Texas Eagle\" via connecting bus service at Longview, Texas.\n\nGalveston has been home to many important figures in Texas and U.S. history. During the island's earliest history it became the domain of Jean Lafitte, the famed pirate and American hero of the War of 1812. Richard Bache, Jr. who represented Galveston in the Senate of the Second Texas Legislature in 1847 and assisted in drawing up the Constitution of 1845. He was also the grandson of Benjamin Franklin, one of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America and Deborah Read. In 1886, the African-American Galveston civil rights leader Norris Wright Cuney rose to become the head of the Texas Republican Party and one of the most important Southern black leaders of the century. Noted portrait and landscape artist Verner Moore White moved from Galveston the day before the 1900 hurricane. While he survived, his studio and much of his portfolio were destroyed. A survivor of the hurricane was the Hollywood director King Vidor, who made his directing debut in 1913 with the film \"Hurricane in Galveston\". Later Jack Johnson, nicknamed the “Galveston Giant”, became the first black world heavyweight boxing champion.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, William L. Moody Jr. established a business empire, which includes American National Insurance Company, a major national insurer, and founded the Moody Foundation, one of the largest charitable organizations in the United States. Sam Maceo, a nationally known organized crime boss, with the help of his family, was largely responsible for making Galveston a major U.S. tourist destination from the 1920s to the 1940s. John H. Murphy, a Texas newspaperman for seventy-four years, was the longtime executive vice president of the Texas Daily Newspaper Association. Douglas Corrigan became one of the early transatlantic aviators, and was given the nickname \"Wrong Way\" for claiming to have mistakenly made the ocean crossing after being refused permission to make the flight. Grammy-award-winning singer-songwriter Barry White was born on the island and later moved to Los Angeles.\n\nGeorge P. Mitchell, pioneer of hydraulic fracturing technology and developer of The Woodlands, Texas, was born and raised in Galveston.\n\nAnita Martini, pioneering female sports journalist who was the first woman allowed in a major league locker room for a post-game press conference, was born in Galveston.\n\nMore recently Tilman J. Fertitta, part of the Maceo bloodline, established the Landry's Restaurants corporation, which owns numerous restaurants and entertainment venues in Texas and Nevada.\n\nKay Bailey Hutchison was the senior senator from Texas and the first female Texas senator.\n\nGilbert Pena, incoming 2015 Republican member of the Texas House of Representatives from Pasadena, was born in Galveston in 1949 and lived there in early childhood.\n\nJonathan Pollard, who spied for Israel and was convicted in the US and sentenced to life in jail, was born in Galveston. The film and television actor Lee Patterson, a native of Vancouver, British Columbia, lived in Galveston and died there in 2007.\n\nOther notable people include Buffalo Bills Matt Carpenter, second baseman for the St. Louis Cardinals, Mike Evans, wide receiver for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, 1998 Heisman Trophy runner-up and pro quarterback Michael Bishop, comedian Bill Engvall, actress Katherine Helmond and Tina Knowles, fashion designer and creator of House of Deréon, mother of Beyoncé and Solange. Pittsburgh Steelers great Casey Hampton. Grammy award-winning R&B and Jazz legend Esther Phillips was born in Galveston in 1935.\n\n\nAs of 2007, Galveston has five sister cities, as designated by Sister Cities International:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57704188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57704188", "title": "Geology of Morocco", "text": "Geology of Morocco\n\nThe geology of Morocco formed beginning up to two billion years ago, in the Paleoproterozoic and potentially even earlier. It was affected by the Pan-African orogeny, although the later Hercynian orogeny produced fewer changes and left the Maseta Domain, a large area of remnant Paleozoic massifs. During the Paleozoic, extensive sedimentary deposits preserved marine fossils. Throughout the Mesozoic, the rifting apart of Pangaea to form the Atlantic Ocean created basins and fault blocks, which were blanketed in terrestrial and marine sediments—particularly as a major marine transgression flooded much of the region. In the Cenozoic, a microcontinent covered in sedimentary rocks from the Triassic and Cretaceous collided with northern Morocco, forming the Rif region. Morocco has extensive phosphate and salt reserves, as well as resources such as lead, zinc, copper and silver. \n\nThe oldest rocks in Morocco are the Jbel Ouiharem augen gneiss and Oued Assemlil gneiss. The augen gneisses and metadolerite of the Zenaga Series experienced composite foliation, likely related to an ancient orogeny. The Zenaga Series is intruded by Paleoproterozoic granitoids, giving a young age constraint within the Precambrian. Granites from the Anti-Atlas Mountains yielded similar ages. \n\nNorth of Kerdous, the Quartzite Series formed thick quartzite layers, along with siltstone, pelite sandstones and conglomerates in the Neoproterozoic, with intercalated stromatolite limestones. Sills and laccoliths of dolerite and a gabbro tholeiitic magma series intruded the Quartzite Series along sedimentary bedding. \n\nMorocco was affected by the Pan-African orogeny, which produced the Ouarzazate Series molasse deposit. \n\nThe Adoudounian Series overlies the Ouarzazate and marks the start of the Cambrian, formed in parallel with the rapid expansion of multicellular life. The base of series is conglomerate, followed by marl, sandstones and additional carbonate sequences. The Amouslek Formation, within the Adounian Series is made up of shale and limestone and is laden with trilobite and archaeocyathid fossils, from an Early Cambrian shallow marine environment. The Goulimine Quartzitic Series from the Middle Cambrian also contains trilobites, although the Late Cambrian is not exposed. \n\nSandstones, micaceous clays and some limestones form Ordovician strata overly the Cambrian, containing trilobite and graptolite fossils. The Late Ordovician and the start of the Silurian is marked by a glaciation, recorded in tillite. Silurian strata is common in the central Anti-Atlas, represented by sandstones, shales and dark mudstones that sometimes contain carbonate nodules. Black shales in the eastern Anti-Atlas host some graptolites, lamellibranch and nautiloid fossils. \nDevonian mudstones with limestone beds unconformably overly the Late Silurian in the western Anti-Atlas, with brachiopod, conodont and tentaculite fossils, while basalts are found in the east. Carboniferous form the northern edge of the Tindouf Basin and cuesta hills in the Draa plains. Condensed limestone, with cephalopod fossils from the period, was uplifted as platforms in the central and eastern Anti-Atlas. \n\nThe Anti-Atlas did not experience significant tectonic changes during the Hercynian orogeny, as Euramerica and Gondwana collided to form the supercontinent Pangaea. The mountains have very little, if any metamorphism, from the time and no Hercynian granites. \n\nThe Meseta Domain, taking its name from Spain's Meseta Central inner plateau is an area of stable Paleozoic rock that was never affected by the Hercynian orogeny and was later covered by Mesozoic and Cenozoic sedimentary rocks. Forming Morocco's Central Massif, the Meseta Domain completely conceals Precambrian rocks, although boreholes have found Neoproterozoic rocks in a Meseta anticline. The domain is split in two by the Middle Atlas fold belt. The Western Meseta has relatively little sedimentary cover and well-developed massifs, while the Eastern Meseta spanning the border with Algeria has numerous, small Paleozoic massifs. \nContinuing from the Neoproterozoic until the Middle Devonian, western Morocco and the Anti-Atlas had the same depositional environment—molasse redbed deposition and post-orogeny volcanism. Southern Morocco was flooded by a massive shallow marine shelf, building up significant carbonates, mixed with continental sediments pouring in from inland areas now in the Sahara. In the Late Devonian, western Morocco and the Anti-Atlas split up into fault-bounded basins, which deformed during the Hercynian orogeny. \n\nThe Western High Atlas preserves evidence of the formation of the Atlantic margin in North Africa. In the Late Triassic, rifting in central Pangaea began to form the Atlantic Ocean. Large alluvial fans began to fill the down-dropped grabens with fluvial sandstones, mudstones and conglomerates, intercalated with evaporite sequences of dolomite, halite and gypsum. A tholeiitic magma series formed dolerite, capping off the Triassic sequence. Clastic sediments continued to deposit into the Jurassic. Simultaneously, in the Middle Jurassic, limestone shoals formed on fault blocks and chaotic olistostrome slump deposits accumulated limestone fragments in nearby deep water.\n\nThe Rifo-Tellian Domain (also known as the Rif Domain) today extends the entire length of the Maghreb and is closely related to the Baetic System mountains in southern Spain. The sediments in the Rif Mountains deposited in the present location of Tunisia in the Triassic, as part of a microcontinent.\n\nA large scale marine transgression in the Cretaceous, timed with subsidence in the region led to the maximum extent of seas in Morocco. By the end of the Cretaceous, a marine regression dropped sea levels in the area as the Atlas Mountains began to rise. River delta fans prograded filled in the Atlas gulf from east to west. Border faults formed, thrusting pieces of Mesozoic rock onto neighboring platforms. The uplifted sedimentary rocks in the trough began to erode into new alluvial fans, filling in marginal foredeep areas. \n\nThe Rif microcontinent shifted westward and collided with the African Plate in the Oligocene and the Miocene, generated the complex Rift overthrust. Seismic studies have found that Carnian sandstones, mudstones and conglomerates from the Triassic, lie unconformably atop the microcontinent's crystalline basement rock in north Morocco. The Miocene and Pliocene marls and carbonates of the Doukkala sub-basin are overlain by Quaternary rocks. Further west, Quaternary rocks cover Middle Cretaceous sedimentary rocks, which lie unconformably atop Triassic and Paleozoic units. \n\nQuaternary alluvial aquifers form in river basins throughout the country. Low permeability clay and silt divided these deposits into multilayer aquifers and they typically range between five and 150 meters deep, with recharge from rainwater and Atlas Mountains runoff. The Meseta region has small, unconfined fractured igneous rock aquifers, with low permeability and low productivity. \n\nPaleozoic, Mesozoic and Cenozoic sandstone aquifers in the northern plains and around Tadla, Saïsis and Tensift range between 10 and 200 meters thick. In some places, groundwater from these sandstones is very high salinity, due to dissolved Triassic and Jurassic evaporites. A few deep karst aquifers are found beneath the Tadla, Fes-Sais and Essaouira plains, along with the Atlas Mountains and the Anti-Atlas Mountains. These karst aquifers are almost universally high quality and produce some important springs. \n\nThe Anti-Atlas Mountains also have high productivity fractured Cambrian karst, together with low-productivity, crystalline Precambrian basement rock. \n\nMining is an important part of the economy of Morocco. The country is a major exporter of phosphates and remains well positioned for peak phosphorus shortages through its occupation of Western Sahara, which holds much of the world's supply. In fact, the two open pit mines at Khouribga, in Morocco itself, forms the largest phosphate mine in the world. Metal mining for lead, copper, silver and zinc resurged in the 1990s, at the Douar Hajar mine 30 kilometers south of Marrakech. El Heimer, 20 kilometers southeast of Oujda in the northeast, is the only active lead smelter in North Africa. \n\nA large salt deposit, related to a marine transgression in the Triassic, is mined 10 kilometers east of Mohammedia. The folded and recrystallized salt is more than 98 percent pure and reaches a thickness of 80 meters. \n"}
{"id": "183717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183717", "title": "Guiana Space Centre", "text": "Guiana Space Centre\n\nThe Guiana Space Centre or, more commonly, Centre Spatial Guyanais (CSG) is a French and European spaceport to the northwest of Kourou in French Guiana, France. Operational since 1968, it is particularly suitable as a location for a spaceport as it fulfills the two major geographical requirements of such a site: \n\nThe European Space Agency (ESA), the French space agency CNES (National Centre for Space Studies), and the commercial companies Arianespace and Azercosmos conduct launches from Kourou. This was the spaceport used by the ESA to send supplies to the International Space Station using the Automated Transfer Vehicle.\n\nThe location was selected in 1964 to become the spaceport of France.\nIn 1975, France offered to share Kourou with ESA. Commercial launches are bought also by non-European companies. ESA pays two thirds of the spaceport's annual budget and has also financed the upgrades made during the development of the Ariane launchers.\n\nOn 4 April 2017, the centre was occupied by 30 labour union leaders in the midst of the 2017 social unrest in French Guiana, but was taken back on April 24, 2017.\n\nKourou is located approximately north of the equator, at a latitude of 5°. It is a common misconception that the main advantage of launching a rocket from the equator is the extra boost provided by the speed of the Earth's rotation. For example, the eastward boost provided by the Earth's rotation is about at the Guiana Space Centre, as compared to about at the United States east coast Cape Canaveral and Kennedy Space Center spaceports which are at 28°27′N latitude in Florida. This means that rockets need around 60 m/s more delta-v to reach Low Earth Orbit (LEO) from Cape Canaveral, which is an insignificant disadvantage.\n\nIn reality, the main benefit of Kourou is that the near-equatorial launch location provides an advantage for launches to low-inclination (or geostationary) Earth orbits compared to launches from spaceports at higher latitude. This is because rockets can be launched into orbits with an inclination of as low as ~6°. The lowest inclination a rocket from Cape Canaveral could be launched to is 28.5° (the latitude of Cape Canaveral). Inclination change burns already require significant amounts of delta-v, so needing to change inclination by 28.5° seriously affects a rocket's capability to send satellites into a geostationary transfer orbit (GTO). As a result of these phenomena, similarly sized Proton and Ariane 5 rockets can send similar payloads to LEO. However, the Proton, launched from high latitudes in Russia, can only send 6,270 kg to GTO while a Kourou-launched Ariane 5 can send more than 10,000 kg to GTO.\n\nOriginally built in the 1960s under the name of Base Équatoriale du CECLES (, ), the pad located at was designed for the Europa-II rocket. One Europa-II was launched from the site, before the programme was cancelled.\n\nThe pad was demolished, and subsequently rebuilt as the first launch complex for Ariane rockets. Renamed \"ELA\" (later redesignated \"ELA-1\"), it was used for Ariane 1 and Ariane 2 and 3 launches until being retired in 1989.\n\nIn november 2001 it was renamed ELV pad () and refurbished again for the Vega rocket. The first launch was performed on 13 February 2012.\n\nThe ELA-2 pad (), located at had been used for Ariane 4 launches until 2003.\n\nELA-3 () has been active for Ariane 5 launches since 1996 (Ariane 501). This facility is located at and covers an area of .\n\nELA-4 () is presently under construction, intended for future Ariane 6 launches. This facility is located at .\n\nESA has built ELS () at for launching Russian-built Soyuz-2 rockets. The first Soyuz launch from ELS was postponed several times, but launched on October 21, 2011.\n\nELS is located on the territory of Sinnamary commune, from Kourou harbor. It is north of the site used for the Ariane 5 launches. Under the terms of the Russo-European joint venture, ESA will augment its own launch vehicle fleet with Soyuz rockets—using them to launch ESA or commercial payloads—and the Russians will get access to the Kourou spaceport for launching their own payloads with Soyuz rockets. Russia will use the Guiana Space Centre in addition to Baikonur Cosmodrome. The Guiana location has the significant benefit of greatly increased payload capability, owing to the near equatorial position. A Soyuz rocket with a 1.7 tonnes to geostationary transfer orbit (GTO) performance from Baikonur, will increase its payload potential to 2.8 tonnes from the Guiana launch site.\n\nThe ELS project is being co-funded by Arianespace, ESA, and the European Union, with CNES being the prime contractor. The project has a projected cost of approximately €320 million, where €120 million are allocated for modernizing the Soyuz vehicle. The official opening of the launch site construction occurred on 27 February 2007. Excavation work however, had previously begun several months beforehand.\n\nOn September 13, 2010, Spaceflight Now reported that after several delays in the construction of a mobile gantry the launch pad had been finished, and the first flight of the Soyuz was expected to occur in early 2011. By October 2010, 18 launch contracts had been signed. Arianespace has ordered 24 launchers from Russian industry.\n\nOn October 21, 2011, two Galileo IOV-1 & IOV-2 satellites were launched using a Soyuz-ST rocket, in the \"first Russian Soyuz vehicle ever launched from Europe's Spaceport in French Guiana.\"\n\nAstrium assembles each Ariane 5 launcher in the Launcher Integration Building. The vehicle is then delivered to the Final Assembly Building for payload integration by Arianespace. The Final Assembly Building is located from the ELA-3 launch zone. The mobile launch table completes the trip with an Ariane 5 in about one hour. It is then secured in place over the launch pad's flame ducts.\n\nFire safety is ensured by a detachment of the Paris Fire Brigade, a branch of the French Army. Security around the base is ensured by French Gendarmerie forces, assisted by the 3rd Foreign Infantry Regiment of the French Foreign Legion.\n\nBefore and during launch windows, CSG facility security is significantly enhanced by anti-personnel and anti-aircraft measures, the exact configurations of which are classified by the French military. All entrants to the launch complex are also subject to checks for proof of permission to enter the facility.\n\nThe Guiana Space Centre (as per CNES) also contains the \"Îles du Salut\", a former penal colony including the infamous Devil's Island. Now a tourist site, the islands are under the launching trajectory for geosynchronous orbit and have to be evacuated during launches.\n\n\n\n\n\n, Kourou counts amongst the spaceports with the highest percentage of successful launches, both successive and overall. Here is a chronology of all orbital launches from the Kourou spaceport since 1970, under the French and European space programmes.\n\nCharts include all orbital launches from Kourou; sounding rockets are excluded. \nHistorical data: launch tables from List of Ariane launches, Soyuz ST, Vega and Encyclopedia Aeronautica. \nLast updated on 28 October 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2773914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773914", "title": "Gustave d'Eichthal", "text": "Gustave d'Eichthal\n\nGustave Séligmann d'Eichthal (March 3, 1804, Nancy, Meurthe-et-Moselle ; April 9, 1886, Paris) was a French writer, publicist, and Hellenist.\n\nAt the age of thirteen he became a convert to Roman Catholicism, and when he left the Lycée Henri IV in 1822, he became a disciple of Auguste Comte, who initiated him into the doctrines of Saint-Simon (and later Barthélemy Prosper Enfantin), to the propagation of which he devoted a part of his fortune.\n\nIn 1832 d'Eichthal went to Greece, and on his return to Paris in 1836 published \"Les Deux Mondes,\" containing his reflections on the Orient. He now began to advocate the use of Greek as a universal language, and published many works, among which were: \"Les Trois Grands Peuples Méditerranéens et le Christianisme,\" Paris, 1864; \"Origines Bouddhiques de la Civilisation Américaine,\" in the \"Revue Archéologique,\" Sept., 1864, and April, 1865; and \"Texte Primitif du Premier Récit de la Création,\" Paris, 1875; reprinted after his death under the title \"Mélanges de Critique Biblique.\"\n\nD'Eichthal was one of the chief founders (1881) of L'Association pour l'Encouragement des Etudes Grecques. After his death his son published his \"La Langue Grecque,\" Paris, 1887.\n\nJane Welsh Carlyle, wife of Thomas Carlyle, described him as \"a gentle soul, trustful, and earnest-looking, ready to do and suffer all for his faith\".\n\nHe had two sons, Eugène Séligmann d'Eichthal, born November 3, 1844 in Paris, died February 28, 1936 in Paris; and Georges Séligmann d'Eichthal, as well as a daughter whose married name was Mme. Paul Le Bret. She had been a friend of Rosa Bonheur when they were both children, as their fathers had both lived briefly at the Saint-Simonian monastery at Ménilmontant.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3928494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3928494", "title": "Hyperspectral imaging", "text": "Hyperspectral imaging\n\nHyperspectral imaging, like other spectral imaging, collects and processes information from across the electromagnetic spectrum. The goal of hyperspectral imaging is to obtain the spectrum for each pixel in the image of a scene, with the purpose of finding objects, identifying materials, or detecting processes. There are two general branches of spectral imagers. There are push broom scanners and the related whisk broom scanners, which read images over time, and snapshot hyperspectral imaging, which uses a staring array to generate an image in an instant.4\n\nWhereas the human eye sees color of visible light in mostly three bands (long wavelengths - perceived as red, medium wavelengths - perceived as green, and short wavelengths - perceived as blue), spectral imaging divides the spectrum into many more bands. This technique of dividing images into bands can be extended beyond the visible. In hyperspectral imaging, the recorded spectra have fine wavelength resolution and cover a wide range of wavelengths. Hyperspectral imaging measures contiguous spectral bands, as opposed to multispectral imaging which measures spaced spectral bands.\n\nEngineers build hyperspectral sensors and processing systems for applications in astronomy, agriculture, molecular biology, biomedical imaging, geosciences, physics, and surveillance. Hyperspectral sensors look at objects using a vast portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Certain objects leave unique 'fingerprints' in the electromagnetic spectrum. Known as spectral signatures, these 'fingerprints' enable identification of the materials that make up a scanned object. For example, a spectral signature for oil helps geologists find new oil fields.\n\nFiguratively speaking, hyperspectral sensors collect information as a set of 'images'. Each image represents a narrow wavelength range of the electromagnetic spectrum, also known as a spectral band. These 'images' are combined to form a three-dimensional (\"x\",\"y\",\"λ\") hyperspectral data cube for processing and analysis, where \"x\" and \"y\" represent two spatial dimensions of the scene, and \"λ\" represents the spectral dimension (comprising a range of wavelengths).\n\nTechnically speaking, there are four ways for sensors to sample the hyperspectral cube: Spatial scanning, spectral scanning, snapshot imaging, and spatio-spectral scanning.\n\nHyperspectral cubes are generated from airborne sensors like the NASA's \"Airborne Visible/Infrared Imaging Spectrometer\" (AVIRIS), or from satellites like NASA's EO-1 with its hyperspectral instrument Hyperion. However, for many development and validation studies, handheld sensors are used.\n\nThe precision of these sensors is typically measured in spectral resolution, which is the width of each band of the spectrum that is captured. If the scanner detects a large number of fairly narrow frequency bands, it is possible to identify objects even if they are only captured in a handful of pixels. However, spatial resolution is a factor in addition to spectral resolution. If the pixels are too large, then multiple objects are captured in the same pixel and become difficult to identify. If the pixels are too small, then the energy captured by each sensor cell is low, and the decreased signal-to-noise ratio reduces the reliability of measured features.\n\nThe acquisition and processing of hyperspectral images is also referred to as imaging spectroscopy or, with reference to the hyperspectral cube, as 3D spectroscopy.\n\nThere are four basic techniques for acquiring the three-dimensional (\"x\",\"y\",\"λ\") dataset of a hyperspectral cube. The choice of technique depends on the specific application, seeing that each technique has context-dependent advantages and disadvantages.\n\nIn spatial scanning, each two-dimensional (2-D) sensor output represents a full slit spectrum (\"x\",\"λ\"). Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) devices for spatial scanning obtain slit spectra by projecting a strip of the scene onto a slit and dispersing the slit image with a prism or a grating. These systems have the drawback of having the image analyzed per lines (with a push broom scanner) and also having some mechanical parts integrated into the optical train. With these line-scan systems, the spatial dimension is collected through platform movement or scanning. This requires stabilized mounts or accurate pointing information to ‘reconstruct’ the image. Nonetheless, line-scan systems are particularly common in remote sensing, where it is sensible to use mobile platforms. Line-scan systems are also used to scan materials moving by on a conveyor belt. A special case of line scanning is point scanning (with a whisk broom scanner), where a point-like aperture is used instead of a slit, and the sensor is essentially one-dimensional instead of 2-D.\n\nIn spectral scanning, each 2-D sensor output represents a monochromatic ('single-colored'), spatial (\"x\",\"y\") map of the scene. HSI devices for spectral scanning are typically based on optical band-pass filters (either tuneable or fixed). The scene is spectrally scanned by exchanging one filter after another while the platform must be stationary. In such 'staring', wavelength scanning systems, spectral smearing can occur if there is movement within the scene, invalidating spectral correlation/detection. Nonetheless, there is the advantage of being able to pick and choose spectral bands, and having a direct representation of the two spatial dimensions of the scene.\n\nIn non-scanning, a single 2-D sensor output contains all spatial (\"x\",\"y\") and spectral (\"λ\") data. HSI devices for non-scanning yield the full datacube at once, without any scanning. Figuratively speaking, a single snapshot represents a perspective projection of the datacube, from which its three-dimensional structure can be reconstructed. The most prominent benefits of these snapshot hyperspectral imaging systems are the \"snapshot advantage\" (higher light throughput) and shorter acquisition time. A number of systems have been designed, including computed tomographic imaging spectrometry (CTIS), fiber-reformatting imaging spectrometry (FRIS), integral field spectroscopy with lenslet arrays (IFS-L), multi-aperture integral field spectrometer (Hyperpixel Array), integral field spectroscopy with image slicing mirrors (IFS-S), image-replicating imaging spectrometry (IRIS), filter stack spectral decomposition (FSSD), coded aperture snapshot spectral imaging (CASSI), image mapping spectrometry (IMS), and multispectral Sagnac interferometry (MSI). However, computational effort and manufacturing costs are high. In an effort to reduce the computational demands and potentially the high cost of non-scanning hyperspectral instrumentation, prototype devices based on Multivariate Optical Computing have been demonstrated. These devices have been based on the Multivariate Optical Element spectral calculation engine or the Spatial Light Modulator spectral calculation engine. In these platforms, chemical information is calculated in the optical domain prior to imaging such that the a chemical image relies on conventional camera systems with no further computing. As a disadvantage of these systems, no spectral information is ever acquired, i.e. only the chemical information, such that post processing or reanalysis is not possible.\n\nIn spatiospectral scanning, each 2-D sensor output represents a wavelength-coded ('rainbow-colored', \"λ\" = \"λ\"(\"y\")), spatial (\"x\",\"y\") map of the scene. A prototype for this technique, introduced in 2014, consists of a camera at some \"non-zero\" distance behind a basic slit spectroscope (slit + dispersive element). Advanced spatiospectral scanning systems can be obtained by placing a dispersive element before a spatial scanning system. Scanning can be achieved by moving the whole system relative to the scene, by moving the camera alone, or by moving the slit alone. Spatiospectral scanning unites some advantages of spatial and spectral scanning, thereby alleviating some of their disadvantages.\n\n Hyperspectral imaging is part of a class of techniques commonly referred to as spectral imaging or spectral analysis. Hyperspectral imaging is related to multispectral imaging. The distinction between hyper- and multi-spectral is sometimes based incorrectly on an arbitrary \"number of bands\" or on the type of measurement. Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) uses continuous and contiguous ranges of wavelengths (e.g. 400 - 1100 nm in steps of 0.1 nm) whilst multispectral imaging (MSI) uses a subset of targeted wavelengths at chosen locations (e.g. 400 - 1100 nm in steps of 20 nm).\n\nMultispectral imaging deals with several images at discrete and somewhat narrow bands. Being \"discrete and somewhat narrow\" is what distinguishes multispectral imaging in the visible wavelength from color photography. A multispectral sensor may have many bands covering the spectrum from the visible to the longwave infrared. Multispectral images do not produce the \"spectrum\" of an object. Landsat is an excellent example of multispectral imaging.\n\nHyperspectral deals with imaging narrow spectral bands over a continuous spectral range, producing the spectra of all pixels in the scene. A sensor with only 20 bands can also be hyperspectral when it covers the range from 500 to 700 nm with 20 bands each 10 nm wide. (While a sensor with 20 discrete bands covering the VIS, NIR, SWIR, MWIR, and LWIR would be considered multispectral.)\n\n'Ultraspectral' could be reserved for interferometer type imaging sensors with a very fine spectral resolution. These sensors often have (but not necessarily) a low spatial resolution of several pixels only, a restriction imposed by the high data rate.\n\nHyperspectral remote sensing is used in a wide array of applications. Although originally developed for mining and geology (the ability of hyperspectral imaging to identify various minerals makes it ideal for the mining and oil industries, where it can be used to look for ore and oil), it has now spread into fields as widespread as ecology and surveillance, as well as historical manuscript research, such as the imaging of the Archimedes Palimpsest. This technology is continually becoming more available to the public. Organizations such as NASA and the USGS have catalogues of various minerals and their spectral signatures, and have posted them online to make them readily available for researchers. On a smaller scale, NIR hyperspectral imaging can be used to rapidly monitor the application of pesticides to individual seeds for quality control of the optimum dose and homogeneous coverage.\n\nAlthough the cost of acquiring hyperspectral images is typically high, for specific crops and in specific climates, hyperspectral remote sensing use is increasing for monitoring the development and health of crops. In Australia, work is under way to use imaging spectrometers to detect grape variety and develop an early warning system for disease outbreaks. Furthermore, work is underway to use hyperspectral data to detect the chemical composition of plants, which can be used to detect the nutrient and water status of wheat in irrigated systems. On a smaller scale, NIR hyperspectral imaging can be used to rapidly monitor the application of pesticides to individual seeds for quality control of the optimum dose and homogeneous coverage.\n\nAnother application in agriculture is the detection of animal proteins in compound feeds to avoid bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), also known as mad-cow disease. Different studies have been done to propose alternative tools to the reference method of detection, (classical microscopy). One of the first alternatives is near infrared microscopy (NIR), which combines the advantages of microscopy and NIR. In 2004, the first study relating this problem with hyperspectral imaging was published. Hyperspectral libraries that are representative of the diversity of ingredients usually present in the preparation of compound feeds were constructed. These libraries can be used together with chemometric tools to investigate the limit of detection, specificity and reproducibility of the NIR hyperspectral imaging method for the detection and quantification of animal ingredients in feed.\n\nResearchers at the Université de Montréal are working with Photon etc. and Optina Diagnostics to test the use of hyperspectral photography in the diagnosis of retinopathy and macular edema before damage to the eye occurs. The metabolic hyperspectral camera will detect a drop in oxygen consumption in the retina, which indicates potential disease. An ophthalmologist will then be able to treat the retina with injections to prevent any potential damage.\n\n In the food processing industry, hyperspectral imaging, combined with intelligent software, enables digital sorters (also called optical sorters) to identify and remove defects and foreign material (FM) that are invisible to traditional camera and laser sorters. By improving the accuracy of defect and FM removal, the food processor’s objective is to enhance product quality and increase yields.\n\nAdopting hyperspectral imaging on digital sorters achieves non-destructive, 100 percent inspection in-line at full production volumes. The sorter’s software compares the hyperspectral images collected to user-defined accept/reject thresholds, and the ejection system automatically removes defects and foreign material.\n\nThe recent commercial adoption of hyperspectral sensor-based food sorters is most advanced in the nut industry where installed systems maximize the removal of stones, shells and other foreign material (FM) and extraneous vegetable matter (EVM) from walnuts, pecans, almonds, pistachios, peanuts and other nuts. Here, improved product quality, low false reject rates and the ability to handle high incoming defect loads often justify the cost of the technology.\n\nCommercial adoption of hyperspectral sorters is also advancing at a fast pace in the potato processing industry where the technology promises to solve a number of outstanding product quality problems. Work is underway to use hyperspectral imaging to detect “sugar ends,” “hollow heart” and “common scab,” conditions that plague potato processors.\n\n Geological samples, such as drill cores, can be rapidly mapped for nearly all minerals of commercial interest with hyperspectral imaging. Fusion of SWIR and LWIR spectral imaging is standard for the detection of minerals in the feldspar, silica, calcite, garnet, and olivine groups, as these minerals have their most distinctive and strongest spectral signature in the LWIR regions.\n\nHyperspectral remote sensing of minerals is well developed. Many minerals can be identified from airborne images, and their relation to the presence of valuable minerals, such as gold and diamonds, is well understood. Currently, progress is towards understanding the relationship between oil and gas leakages from pipelines and natural wells, and their effects on the vegetation and the spectral signatures. Recent work includes the PhD dissertations of Werff and Noomen.\n\n Hyperspectral surveillance is the implementation of hyperspectral scanning technology for surveillance purposes. Hyperspectral imaging is particularly useful in military surveillance because of countermeasures that military entities now take to avoid airborne surveillance. Aerial surveillance was used by French soldiers using tethered balloons to spy on troop movements during the French Revolutionary Wars, and since that time, soldiers have learned not only to hide from the naked eye, but also to mask their heat signatures to blend into the surroundings and avoid infrared scanning. The idea that drives hyperspectral surveillance is that hyperspectral scanning draws information from such a large portion of the light spectrum that any given object should have a unique spectral signature in at least a few of the many bands that are scanned. The SEALs from NSWDG who killed Osama bin Laden in May 2011 used this technology while conducting the raid (Operation Neptune's Spear) on Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.\n\nTraditionally, commercially available thermal infrared hyperspectral imaging systems have needed liquid nitrogen or helium cooling, which has made them impractical for most surveillance applications. In 2010, Specim introduced a thermal infrared hyperspectral camera that can be used for outdoor surveillance and UAV applications without an external light source such as the sun or the moon.\n\nIn astronomy, hyperspectral imaging is used to determine a spatially-resolved spectral image. Since a spectrum is an important diagnostic, having a spectrum for each pixel allows more science cases to be addressed. In astronomy, this technique is commonly referred to as integral field spectroscopy, and examples of this technique include FLAMES and SINFONI on the Very Large Telescope, but also the Advanced CCD Imaging Spectrometer on Chandra X-ray Observatory uses this technique.\n\nSoldiers can be exposed to a wide variety of chemical hazards. These threats are mostly invisible but detectable by hyperspectral imaging technology. The Telops Hyper-Cam, introduced in 2005, has demonstrated this at distances up to 5 km.\n\nMost countries require continuous monitoring of emissions produced by coal and oil-fired power plants, municipal and hazardous waste incinerators, cement plants, as well as many other types of industrial sources. This monitoring is usually performed using extractive sampling systems coupled with infrared spectroscopy techniques. Some recent standoff measurements performed allowed the evaluation of the air quality but not many remote independent methods allow for low uncertainty measurements.\n\nThe primary advantage to hyperspectral imaging is that, because an entire spectrum is acquired at each point, the operator needs no prior knowledge of the sample, and postprocessing allows all available information from the dataset to be mined. Hyperspectral imaging can also take advantage of the spatial relationships among the different spectra in a neighbourhood, allowing more elaborate spectral-spatial models for a more accurate segmentation and classification of the image.\n\nThe primary disadvantages are cost and complexity. Fast computers, sensitive detectors, and large data storage capacities are needed for analyzing hyperspectral data. Significant data storage capacity is necessary since hyperspectral cubes are large, multidimensional datasets, potentially exceeding hundreds of megabytes. All of these factors greatly increase the cost of acquiring and processing hyperspectral data. Also, one of the hurdles researchers have had to face is finding ways to program hyperspectral satellites to sort through data on their own and transmit only the most important images, as both transmission and storage of that much data could prove difficult and costly. As a relatively new analytical technique, the full potential of hyperspectral imaging has not yet been realized.\n\nOpen source (in alphabetical order):\n\nCommercial (in alphabetical order):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42328372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42328372", "title": "International Boundary Marker", "text": "International Boundary Marker\n\nThe International Boundary Marker, also known as the Republic of Texas Granite Marker, is a boundary marker located on the Louisiana-Texas border near the junction of Texas FM 31 and Louisiana Highway 765, southeast of Deadwood, Texas. The marker was created in 1840 and placed in 1841 to mark the international border between the United States and the Republic of Texas. The survey which established this border lasted from May 1840 to June 1841; the survey team faced hazardous, swampy conditions in their work and were forced to take several extended breaks due to weather and a lack of funding. The boundary marker is the only marker remaining from the Texas border survey and is one of only two known international boundary markers located entirely within the United States (the other being a much older and humbler stone near Mobile, Alabama).\n\nThe property of the area is shared between DeSoto Parish, Louisiana (1 acre) and Panola County, Texas (2 acres), with the marker itself being a direct property of U.S. Government\n\nThe marker was added to the National Register of Historic Places on April 13, 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "32749130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32749130", "title": "International rankings of Denmark", "text": "International rankings of Denmark\n\nThe following are links to international rankings of Denmark.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24140132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24140132", "title": "Keulemans", "text": "Keulemans\n\nKeulemans or Ceulemans () is a Dutch surname. It may be of topographic origin, indicating an origin from Cologne (Dutch \"Keulen\") or from a \"Keule\" (a Limburgish dialectical form of \"kuil\", \"hollow\" / \"depression\"). Alternatively, it may be patronymic, stemming from \"Cole\", an archaic short form of Nicolaas. \"Ceulemans\" is a relatively common name in Belgium (4943 people in 2008), especially in the province of Antwerp. People with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "36041911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36041911", "title": "Kungshamra", "text": "Kungshamra\n\nKungshamra is a residential area in Bergshamra, Solna Municipality, Sweden, in the northern outskirts of Stockholm. It has about 1370 student flats. The older houses (about 820 of them) are in raw concrete with bold colours on window frames and doors. Newer houses (550, built during 2003-2005) are painted in gray or white, and decorated with French balconies and yellow windows.\n\n"}
{"id": "5319844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5319844", "title": "Leichhardt Falls", "text": "Leichhardt Falls\n\nThe Leichhardt Falls is a plunge waterfall on the Leichhardt River in the Gulf Country region of North West Queensland, Australia. \n\nThe falls are located approximately upstream from the point where the river discharges into the Gulf of Carpentaria. The falls vary in intensity from a raging torrent of water in the wet season to a mere trickle towards the end of the dry season. The falls are not renowned for their height but for their stepped nature and breadth.\n\nThe falls and river are named after Ludwig Leichhardt.\n\n"}
{"id": "52682284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52682284", "title": "List of Canadian programs broadcast by Disney Channel", "text": "List of Canadian programs broadcast by Disney Channel\n\nThis is a list of television programs currently broadcast (in first-run or reruns), scheduled to be broadcast or formerly broadcast on Disney Channel (formerly \"The Disney Channel\"), that are of Canadian origin.\n"}
{"id": "1637173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637173", "title": "List of European Union directives", "text": "List of European Union directives\n\nThe following is a thematic list of European Union directives:\n\nFor a date based list, see the \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231785", "title": "List of Finland-related topics", "text": "List of Finland-related topics\n\nThis is a collection of articles relating to Finland, a country in Northern Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16199015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16199015", "title": "List of administrative division name changes", "text": "List of administrative division name changes\n\nThis is a list of administrative divisions whose names were officially changed at one or more points in history. It does not include gradual changes in spelling.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10940548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10940548", "title": "List of birds of Nauru", "text": "List of birds of Nauru\n\nThis is a list of the bird species recorded in Nauru. The avifauna of Nauru include a total of twenty-seven species, of which one is endemic.\n\nThis list's taxonomic treatment (designation and sequence of orders, families and species) and nomenclature (common and scientific names) follow the conventions of \"The Clements Checklist of Birds of the World\", 6th edition. The family accounts at the beginning of each heading reflect this taxonomy, as do the species counts found in each family account.\n\nThe following tag has been used to highlight endemic species. The commonly occurring native species are untagged.\n\n\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThe procellariids are the main group of medium-sized \"true petrels\", characterised by united nostrils with medium septum and a long outer functional primary.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nTropicbirds are slender white birds of tropical oceans, with exceptionally long central tail feathers. Their heads and long wings have black markings.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nThe sulids comprise the gannets and boobies. Both groups are medium to large coastal seabirds that plunge-dive for fish.\n\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nFrigatebirds are large seabirds usually found over tropical oceans. They are large, black and white or completely black, with long wings and deeply forked tails. The males have coloured inflatable throat pouches. They do not swim or walk and cannot take off from a flat surface. Having the largest wingspan-to-body-weight ratio of any bird, they are essentially aerial, able to stay aloft for more than a week.\n\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nThe family Ardeidae contains the bitterns, herons and egrets. Herons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter necked and more wary. Members of Ardeidae fly with their necks retracted, unlike other long-necked birds such as storks, ibises and spoonbills.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nThe family Charadriidae includes the plovers, dotterels and lapwings. They are small to medium-sized birds with compact bodies, short, thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. They are found in open country worldwide, mostly in habitats near water.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nScolopacidae is a large diverse family of small to medium-sized shorebirds including the sandpipers, curlews, godwits, shanks, tattlers, woodcocks, snipes, dowitchers and phalaropes. The majority of these species eat small invertebrates picked out of the mud or soil. Variation in length of legs and bills enables multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food.\n\n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\n\nLaridae is a family of medium to large seabirds, the gulls, terns, and skimmers. Gulls are typically grey or white, often with black markings on the head or wings. They have stout, longish bills and webbed feet. Terns are a group of generally medium to large seabirds typically with grey or white plumage, often with black markings on the head. Most terns hunt fish by diving but some pick insects off the surface of fresh water. Terns are generally long-lived birds, with several species known to live in excess of 30 years.\n\n\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere.\n\n\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nThe family Cuculidae includes cuckoos, roadrunners and anis. These birds are of variable size with slender bodies, long tails and strong legs. The Old World cuckoos are brood parasites.\n\n\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs and stubby tails.\n\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Acrocephalidae\n\nThe family Acrocephalidae is a group of small insectivorous passerine birds. Most are of generally undistinguished appearance, but many have distinctive songs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47250132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47250132", "title": "List of geological features on Ceres", "text": "List of geological features on Ceres\n\nCeres is a dwarf planet in the asteroid belt that lies between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. The IAU has adopted two themes for naming surface features on Ceres: agricultural deities for craters and agricultural festivals for everything else.\n\nAs of September 2016, the IAU has approved names for 111 geological features on Ceres: craters, montes, catenae, rupēs, plana, tholi, planitiae, fossae and sulci. In July 2018, NASA released a comparison of physical features found on Ceres with similar ones present on Earth.\n\n\"Piazzi\", named after Giuseppe Piazzi, the discoverer of Ceres, is a dark region southwest of Dantu crater in ground-based images that was named before \"Dawn\" arrived at Ceres.\n\nCeres is saturated with impact craters. Many have a central pit or bright spot.\n\nIn the first batch of 17 names approved by the IAU, craters north of 20° north latitude had names beginning with A–G (with Asari being the furthest north), those between 20° north and south latitude beginning with H–R, and those further south beginning with S–Z (with Zadeni being the furthest south).\n\nThe three planitiae may be large and largely obliterated craters.\n"}
{"id": "51804256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51804256", "title": "List of lighthouses in Cambodia", "text": "List of lighthouses in Cambodia\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Cambodia. \n\n"}
{"id": "38781172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38781172", "title": "List of mountains of Princess Elizabeth Land", "text": "List of mountains of Princess Elizabeth Land\n\nThe mountains of Princess Elizabeth Land are located in the region Princess Elizabeth Land, East Antarctica, between 73° E and 87° 55' 20\" E. This region is claimed by Australia as part of the Australian Antarctic Territory. The area is highly glaciated. The availability of reliable data for this region is limited, making the list incomplete and inaccurate. The highest peaks, including nunataks and ice domes, are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "18255139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18255139", "title": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 1,000 to 3,000 square kilometers", "text": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area from 1,000 to 3,000 square kilometers\n"}
{"id": "32217505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32217505", "title": "List of populated places in Martinique", "text": "List of populated places in Martinique\n\nThis list is intended to be a full A-Z list of settlements and neighborhoods in the Caribbean island of Martinique:\n"}
{"id": "5886913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5886913", "title": "Lombardo", "text": "Lombardo\n\nLombardo is an Italian ethonym (\"from Lombardy\") and surname, most commonly found in Sicily where it is the third most common family name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54199811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54199811", "title": "Luciad", "text": "Luciad\n\nLuciad is an international supplier of geographic information system (GIS) tools and is recognised\nas the worldwide leader for high performance geospatial situational awareness. Mainly focusing on the aviation, defense and security markets, Defence customers account for about 70% of its business.\n\nIn addition to its headquarters in Leuven (Belgium), Luciad has offices in the US, France, Germany, Mexico, Singapore, Spain and Turkey. It works with leading organizations such as Eurocontrol, Boeing, Airbus Defence and Space, Lufthansa Systems, NATO, Lockheed Martin and Thales.\n\nSince 2008, Luciad technology has been used in supporting SACT's objectives of furthering the interoperability between NATO and national C4I systems and has been contracted by the NATO C3 Agency to deliver the software components for the visualization capability in its interim Joint Common Operational Picture. In 2016, Luciad announced a new partnership with Sc2 Corp and IBM to develop social media analytics for US Special Operations Command.\n\nLuciad has also participated with Frontex, the European Organisation for\nSecurity (EOS) and the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe (ASD) on border security and border control\n\nLuciad is one of several spin-offs of the KU Leuven.\n\nLuciad offers the following products for aviation, defense and security markets, as well as chemical, petrochemical, energy, vessel transportation, traffic control, and urban planning markets:\n\nAdditionally, the company also provides product training, consultancy and software development services.\n\nAfter he obtained his doctorate at the KU Leuven in 1991, Dr. Lode Missiaen worked as a senior scientist at the NATO C3 Agency in The Hague, the Netherlands, where he was responsible for the study, development, and application of modern software technologies in the field of Air Traffic Control and Airspace Management.\n\nTogether with his colleague Thierry Salvant, who built a career in France at Matra Aérospatiale in the world of air traffic, Missiaen recognized the lack of commercially available software to combine geographic information efficiently and with high precision with real-time aviation information.\n\nTo fill this gap, Missiaen and Salvant founded Luciad on March 22, 1999, together with management company R2I (acted as business angels). Gemma Frisius Fund (GFF), a seed capital fund established in 1997 as a joint venture between the KU Leuven, KBC and BNP Paribas, provided further seed capital in September 2000.\n\nMissiaen served as Group CEO from 1999 to 2012. Investment company Gimv acquired a majority stake in Luciad in 2013. In October 2017, Gimv and the other shareholders sold their stake in Luciad to the Swedish-headquartered Hexagon to strengthen their ability to deliver smart digital realities. This made Luciad a fully owned subsidiary of Hexagon which now operates under its Geospatial division. \n\nLuciad won the 2016 Geospatial World Innovation Award for LuciadRIA, its 3D situational awareness app for browsers.\n\nLuciad hosts an annual User Conference for geospatial professionals and developers in Europe, with +200 geospatial professionals from the Aviation, Defense, Maritime, Safety & Security and Utilities & Logistics domains. It is hosted in Brussels.\n\n"}
{"id": "3825974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825974", "title": "Mickey Mouse (film series)", "text": "Mickey Mouse (film series)\n\nMickey Mouse (originally Mickey Mouse Sound Cartoons) is a character-based series of 130 animated short films produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios. The films, which introduced Disney's most famous cartoon character, were released on a regular basis from 1928 (\"Plane Crazy\") to 1953 with four additional shorts released between 1983 and 2013. The series is notable for its innovation with sound synchronization and character animation, and also introduced well-known characters such as Minnie Mouse, Pluto, and Goofy.\n\nThe name \"Mickey Mouse\" was first used in the films' title sequences to refer specifically to the character, but was used from 1935 to 1953 to refer to the series itself as in \"Walt Disney presents a Mickey Mouse.\" In this sense \"a Mickey Mouse\" was a shortened form of \"a Mickey Mouse sound cartoon\" which was used in the earliest films. Films from 1929 to 1935 which were re-released during this time also used this naming convention, but it was not used for the three shorts released between 1983 and 1995 (\"Mickey's Christmas Carol\", \"The Prince and the Pauper\", and \"Runaway Brain\"). Mickey's name was also used occasionally to market other films which were formally part of other series. Examples of this include several \"Silly Symphonies\", \"Don Donald\" (1937), and \"Goofy and Wilbur\" (1939).\n\"Mickey Mouse\" began production in April 1928 after the Disney studio lost the license to Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. The first two films, \"Plane Crazy\" and \"The Gallopin' Gaucho\", were previewed in theaters but failed to pick up a distributor. For the third film, Disney added synchronized sound, a technology that was still in its early stages at the time. \"Steamboat Willie\" debuted in New York in November 1928 and was an instant success. The revenues from the film provided the studio with much needed resources, and the studio quickly began to produce new cartoons as well as releasing sound versions of the first two.\n\nProduction slowed towards the end of the 1930s as the studio began to focus on other characters and feature-length films. The series was informally retired in 1953 with the release of \"The Simple Things\", but was revived in 1983 and 1990 with two featurettes, or three reel short films. 1995's \"Runaway Brain\" returned the series to its single reel format, while the most recent installment, 2013's \"Get a Horse!\", was produced in the black-and-white style of the early films.\n\nThe cartoons were directed by 20 different people. Those with the most credits include Burt Gillett (34), Wilfred Jackson (18), Walt Disney (16), David Hand (15), and Ben Sharpsteen (14); the director of the most recent installment, Lauren MacMullan, was the first female director. Notable animators who worked on the series include Ub Iwerks, Norm Ferguson, Ollie Johnston, Frank Thomas, and Fred Moore. Mickey's voice is mostly provided by Walt Disney, with some additional work by Carl Stalling and Clarence Nash. By 1947, Jimmy MacDonald had taken over Mickey's voice. Wayne Allwine voices the mouse in the three most recent films.\n\nThe following is a list of \"Mickey Mouse\" films in the order of their official release dates. Unless otherwise noted, dates are original theatrical releases in the United States. Gray headers indicate black-and-white films while yellow headers indicate color films.\n\nEvery \"Mickey Mouse\" cartoon was originally released theatrically, typically appearing before feature films. In 1929, some theaters began to host the \"Mickey Mouse Club\", a children's program which would exclusively show Mickey's cartoons. The series was first distributed by Celebrity Productions (1928–1929), followed by Columbia Pictures (1930–1932), United Artists (1932–1937), and RKO Radio Pictures (1937–1953). The four most recent films were released by Disney's own companies Buena Vista and Walt Disney Pictures.\n\nMany of the films were also broadcast on television, beginning in 1936 on BBC Television. Here the series was shown on a regular basis except during World War II. In the United States, selected films were shown on the Walt Disney anthology television series, and later on other series such as \"The Mouse Factory\" (1971–1973), \"Mickey's Mouse Tracks\" (1992–1999), and \"Ink & Paint Club\" (1997–1998).\n\nThe films have also been released in various forms of home entertainment. In the 1960s there were several 8 mm and Super 8 releases, although these were often silent, black-and-white, or condensed versions. In 1978, Disney began to release selected films on VHS, laserdisc, and later DVD. Starting in 2010, some of the cartoons were made available on the iTunes Store as digital downloads.\n\nDisney has also released films online. At the Disney website, cartoons are shown on a rotating basis under the video page \"Mickey & Friends\". On Walt Disney Animation Studios' official YouTube channel, three complete cartoons have been released: \"Plane Crazy\" (1928), \"Steamboat Willie\" (1928), and \"Hawaiian Holiday\" (1937), and most of \"Thru the Mirror\" (1936) as seen on the \"Disneyland\" episode \"The Plausible Impossible\" (1956).\n\nAs of 2018, the only complete re-release of the entire series has been in the \"Walt Disney Treasures\" DVD sets. The vast majority of the series appears between four two-disc sets: \"\" (2002), \"\" (2004), \"\" (2001), and \"\" (2004). Film critic Leonard Maltin, who hosts the collection, implied that there was opposition to releasing the complete series because of some content now considered politically incorrect, such as racial and ethnic stereotypes. Maltin argued that releasing the material uncensored was the only way to \"learn from the past\". The only film not included in this collection was the subsequently released \"Get a Horse!\" (2013) which first premiered at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival and was shown ahead of \"Frozen\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1836065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836065", "title": "Muidumbe District", "text": "Muidumbe District\n\nMuidumbe is a district of Cabo Delgado Province in Moçambique. Its capital is the village of Muidumbe. \n\nThe district of Muidumbe is limited to the north and the east by Mocimboa da Praia District, to the north and the west by Mueda District, and to the south by Macomia District.\n\nAccording to the Census of 2007, the district has 72,840 inhabitants and an area of 2,213 km².\n\n"}
{"id": "5434729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5434729", "title": "Names of Istanbul", "text": "Names of Istanbul\n\nThe city of Istanbul has been known by a number of different names. The most notable names besides the modern Turkish name are \"Byzantium\", \"Constantinople\", and \"Stamboul\". Different names are associated with different phases of its history and with different languages.\n\nAccording to Pliny the Elder the first name of Byzantium was \"Lygos\". This may have been the name of a Thracian settlement situated on the site of the later city, near the point of the peninsula (Sarayburnu).\n\n\"Byzantion\" (Βυζάντιον), Latinized as \"Byzantium\", was founded by Greek colonists from Megara in 667 BC. The name is believed to be of Thracian or Illyrian origin and thus to predate the Greek settlement. It may be derived from a Thracian or Illyrian personal name, \"Byzas\". Ancient Greek legend refers to a legendary king of that name as the leader of the Megarean colonists and eponymous founder of the city.\n\nAfter its fall, the name \"Byzantine Empire\" started being used by the West to refer to the Eastern Roman Empire whose capital the city had been. This usage was introduced by the German historian Hieronymus Wolf in 1555, a century after the empire had ceased to exist. During the time of the empire, the term \"Byzantium\" was used only for the city, not for the empire that it ruled.\n\nThe city was called \"Augusta Antonina\" () for a brief period in the 3rd century AD. The Roman Emperor Septimius Severus (193–211) conferred the name in honor of his son Antoninus, the later Emperor Caracalla.\n\nBefore the Roman emperor Constantine the Great made the city the new eastern capital of the Roman Empire on May 11, 330, he undertook a major construction project, essentially rebuilding the city on a monumental scale, partly modeled after Rome. Names of this period included \"the New, second Rome\", \"Alma Roma\"  , , \"Eastern Rome\", \"Roma Constantinopolitana\".\n\nThe Third Canon of the First Council of Constantinople (360) refers to the city as New Rome.\n\nThe term \"New Rome\" lent itself to East–West polemics, especially in the context of the Great Schism, when it was used by Greek writers to stress the rivalry with (the original) Rome. \"New Rome\" is also still part of the official title of the Patriarch of Constantinople.\n\n\"Kōnstantinoúpolis\" (Κωνσταντινούπολις), \"Constantinopolis\" in Latin and \"Constantinople\" in English, was the name by which the city became soon more widely known, in honour of Constantine the Great who established it as his capital. It is first attested in official use under Emperor Theodosius II (408–450). It remained the principal official name of the city throughout the Byzantine period, and the most common name used for it in the West until the early 20th century. It was also used (including its Kostantiniyye variant) by the Ottoman Empire until the advent of the Republic of Turkey.\n\nBesides \"Constantinople\", the Byzantines referred to the city with a large range of honorary appellations, such as the \"Queen of Cities\" (), also as an adjective, Βασιλεύουσα, the 'Reigning City'. In popular speech, the most common way of referring to it came to be simply \"the City\" (Greek: \"hē Polis\", , Modern Greek: \"i Poli\", η Πόλη). This usage, still current today in colloquial Greek and Armenian (Պոլիս, pronounced \"Polis\" or \"Bolis\" in the Western Armenian dialect prevalent in the city), also became the source of the later Turkish name, \"Istanbul\" (see below).\n\n\"Kostantiniyye\" (Arabic, Persian , \"Qusṭanṭīniyya\", Ottoman Turkish , \"Ḳosṭanṭīnīye\") is the name by which the city came to be known in the Islamic world. It is an Arabic calqued form of \"Constantinople\", with an Arabic ending meaning 'place of' instead of the Greek element \"-polis\". After the \nOttoman conquest of 1453, it was used as the most formal official name in Ottoman Turkish, and remained in use throughout most of the time up to the fall of the Empire in 1923. However, during some periods Ottoman authorities favoured other names (see below).\n\nThe modern Turkish name \"İstanbul\" () () is attested (in a range of variants) since the 10th century, at first in Armenian and Arabic (without the initial \"İ-\") and then in Turkish sources. It derives from the Greek phrase \"στην Πόλη\" \" , meaning \"in the city\" or \"to the city\", reinterpreted as a single word; a similar case is Stimboli, Crete. It is thus based on the common Greek usage of referring to Constantinople simply as \"The City\" (see above).\n\nThe incorporation of parts of articles and other particles into Greek placenames was common even before the Ottoman period: Navarino for earlier Avarino, Satines for Athines, \"etc.\" Similar examples of modern Turkish placenames derived from Greek in this fashion are İzmit, earlier \"İznikmit,\" from Greek Nicomedia, İznik from Greek \"Nicaea\" ([iz nikea]), Samsun (\"s'Amison\" from \"se\" and \"Amisos\"), and \"İstanköy\" for the Greek island Kos (from \"is tin Ko\"). The occurrence of the initial \"i-\" in these names, including Istanbul's, is largely secondary epenthesis to break up syllabic consonant clusters, prohibited by the phonotactic structure of Turkish, as seen in Turkish \"istasyon\" from French \"station\" or \"ızgara\" from the Greek \"schára\".\n\n\"İstanbul\" was the common name for the city in normal speech in Turkish even before the conquest of 1453, but in official use by the Ottoman authorities other names, such as \"Kostantiniyye\", were preferred in certain contexts. Thus, \"Kostantiniyye\" was used on coinage up to the late 17th and then again in the 19th century. The Ottoman chancelery and courts used \"Kostantiniyye\" as part of intricate formulae in expressing the place of origin of formal documents, such as \"be-Makam-ı Darü's-Saltanat-ı Kostantiniyyetü'l-Mahrusâtü'l-Mahmiyye\". In 19th century Turkish book-printing it was also used in the impressum of books, in contrast to the foreign use of \"Constantinople\". At the same time, however, \"İstanbul\" too was part of the official language, for instance in the titles of the highest Ottoman military commander \"(İstanbul ağası)\" and the highest civil magistrate \"(İstanbul efendisi)\" of the city, and the Ottoman constitution of 1876 states that \"The capital city of the Ottoman State is İstanbul\". \"İstanbul\" and several other variant forms of the same name were also widely used in Ottoman literature and poetry.\n\nNames other than استانبول (\"İstanbul\") had become obsolete in the Turkish language during the late Ottoman/early republican periods. However, Constantinople was still used when writing the city's name in Latin script. In 1928, the Turkish alphabet was changed from Arabic script to Latin script. After that, Turkey started to urge other countries to use Turkish names for Turkish cities, instead of other transliterations to Latin script that had been used in the Ottoman times. Letters or packages sent to \"Constantinople\" instead of \"Istanbul\" were no longer delivered by Turkey's PTT, which contributed to the eventual worldwide adoption of the new name.\n\nIn English the name is usually written \"Istanbul\". In modern Turkish the name is written \"İstanbul\" (dotted i/İ and dotless ı/I being two distinct letters in the Turkish alphabet).\n\n\"Stamboul\" or \"Stambul\" is a variant form of \"İstanbul.\" Greek for 'the town'. Like \"Istanbul\" itself, forms without the initial \"i-\" are attested from early on in the Middle Ages, first in Arabic sources of the 10th century and Armenian ones of the 12th. Some early sources also attest to an even shorter form \"Bulin\", based on the Greek word \"Poli(n)\" alone without the preceding article. (This latter form lives on in modern Armenian.) The word-initial \"i-\" arose in the Turkish name as an epenthetic vowel to break up the \"St-\" consonant cluster, prohibited in Turkish phonotactics.\n\n\"Stamboul\" was used in Western languages as an equivalent of \"İstanbul\", until the time it was replaced by the official new usage of the Turkish form in the 1930s. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, Western European and American sources often used \"Constantinople\" to refer to the metropolis as a whole, but \"Stamboul\" to refer to the central parts located on the historic peninsula, i.e. Byzantine-era Constantinople inside the walls.\n\n\"Islambol\" (, \"Full of Islam\") or \"Islambul\" (\"find Islam\") or \"Islam(b)ol\" (\"old Turkic: be Islam\"), both in the Turkish language, were folk-etymological adaptations of \"Istanbul\" created after the Ottoman conquest of 1453 to express the city's new role as the capital of the Islamic Ottoman Empire. It is first attested shortly after the conquest, and its invention was ascribed by some contemporary writers to Sultan Mehmed II himself. Some Ottoman sources of the 17th century, most notably Evliya Çelebi, describe it as the common Turkish name of the time. Between the late 17th and late 18th centuries, it was also in official use. The first use of the word \"Islambol\" on coinage took place in 1703 (1115 AH) during the reign of Sultan Ahmed III. The term \"Kostantiniyye\" still appeared, however, into the 20th century.\n\nOttomans and foreign contemporaries, especially in diplomatic correspondence, referred to the Ottoman imperial government with particular honorifics. Among them are the following:\n\nThe \"Gate of Felicity\", the \"Sublime Gate\", and the \"Sublime Porte\" were literally places within the Ottoman Sultans' Topkapı Palace, and were used metonymically to refer to the authorities located there, and hence for the central Ottoman imperial administration. Modern historians also refer to government by these terms, similar to popular usage of Whitehall in Britain. The sublime Gate is not inside Topkapı palace; the administration building whose gate is named Bâb-ı Âlî is between Agia Sofia and Beyazit mosque, a huge building.\n\nMany peoples neighboring on the Byzantine Empire used names expressing concepts like \"The Great City\", \"City of the Emperors\", \"Capital of the Romans\" or similar. During the 10th to 12th century Constantinople was one of the largest two cities in the world, the other being Baghdad.\n\nThe medieval Vikings, who had contacts with the Byzantine empire through their expansion through eastern Europe (Varangians) used the Old Norse name \"Miklagarðr\" (from \"mikill\" 'big' and \"garðr\" 'wall' or 'stronghold'), later \"Miklagard\" and \"Micklegarth\". This name lives on in the modern Icelandic name \"Mikligarður\" and Faroese \"Miklagarður\".\n\nEast and South Slavic languages referred to the city as Tsarigrad or \"Carigrad,\" 'City of the Tsar (King)', from the Slavonic words \"tsar\" ('Caesar' or 'King') and \"grad\" ('city'). Cyrillic: Царьград, Цариград. This was presumably a calque on a Greek phrase such as Βασιλέως Πόλις \"(Basileos Polis),\" 'the city of the emperor [king]'. The term is still occasionally used in Bulgarian, whereas it has become archaic in Russian, and Macedonian. In Croatian, Serbian and Slovene, \"\" is a living alternative name for the modern city, as well as being used when referring to the historic capital of the medieval Roman Empire or the Ottoman Empire. In Czech (a West Slavic language) this Slavic name is used in the form \"Cařihrad\" (used in the 19th century, now only occasionally). It was also borrowed from the Slavic languages into Romanian in the form \"Țarigrad\", though \"Constantinopole\" remained the far more widely preferred term.\n\nBesides \"Kustantiniyyah\", Persian, Arabic and other languages of the Islamic world used names based on the title \"Cesar\" ('Emperor'), as in Persian and Urdu \"Kayser-i Zemin\", or on the ethnic name \"Rum\" ('Romans'), as in Arabic \"Rūmiyyat al-kubra\" ('Great City of the Romans') or Persian \"Takht-e Rum\" ('Throne of the Romans').\n\nThe city is referred as \"Kostandina\" or \"Kostantina\" (an alteration of Kostantiniyye) and more often as its short form \"Kosta\" (קושטה) or \"Kostán\" in most Judaeo-Spanish publications during the Ottoman period. Kosta was the name for the entire province of Istanbul, while the word \"Estambol\" was used for the area of the old city and Pera. Today the word Kosta is restricted only for historical purposes and is no more in common use.\n\nThe word \"Estambol\" has widened in meaning to include exclusively the entire European side of Istanbul. The Asian side is usually not considered as Estambol, however the expression \"la civdad de Estambol\" would encompass the boundaries of the present-day city. There are few expression denoting the Asian side. \"Anatol\", from Anatolia and \"Asya\", meaning Asia are common words to denote the Asian side of Istanbul. Moreover, \"el otro lado\" (literally \"the other side\") is a quite simplistic and descriptory expression for the Asian side of Istanbul, especially for those living in the European side. Those living in the Asian side however do not use this expression to denote the European side, but simply call it \"Estambol\". The inhabitants are called \"Estambulí\" or \"Estambullí\".\n\nIn Hebrew, the city was sometimes referred to as \"Kushtandina\" , and sometimes \"Kushtandina Rabati\" , literally, Great Kushtandina, or shortened to \"Kushta\" , probably due to a distorted pronunciation of the Judaeo-Spanish \"Kostandina\". This usage was common among non-Sephardic Jews until the early 20th century; however, in present-day Israel it has virtually disappeared, replaced by the Hebrew transliteration of the Turkish \"Istanbul\" ().\n\n\nPresent-day Chinese use transcriptions of the name Istanbul (Yisitanbu'er 伊斯坦布尔 or Yisitanbao 伊斯坦堡) when referring to the modern city.\n\nMost modern Western languages have adopted the name \"Istanbul\" for the modern city during the 20th century, following the current usage in the Turkish Republic. However, many languages also preserve other, traditional names. Greeks continue to call the city Constantinople (Κωνσταντινούπολη \"Konstantinupoli\" in Modern Greek) or simply \"The City\" (η Πόλη \"i Poli\"). Languages that use forms based on \"Stamboul\" include Russian, Polish (though the alternative form of \"Istambuł\" is also universally accepted and employed in many translations), Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian and Albanian. The Albanian form is \"Stamboll\"; the Spanish form is \"Estambul\"; the Portuguese form is \"Istambul\", with an \"m\" instead of an \"n\". Armenian uses \"Bolis\", based on the Greek \"Poli(s)\" 'City'. Icelandic preserves the old Norse name \"Mikligarður\", though the form \"Istanbúl\" is generally used. In Slovene \"Carigrad\" is still largely used and often preferred over the official name.\n\n"}
{"id": "23697095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23697095", "title": "Nchum Bafut", "text": "Nchum Bafut\n\nNchum is one of the major Quarters of the Bafut Fondom in the North West province of Cameroon. Dr. Simon Awanchiri is vividly remembered for coordinating a series of developmental projects in this area, thanks to his collaborative work with the Canadian High commission in Yaoundé. Through this intermediary, the Quarter has seen developmental infrastructure like pipe-borne water and electricity.\n\nTo keep its youths disciplined and law abiding, Nchum is noted for its use of \"keule mbang\" or cracked palm nut shells, which the suspect is asked to kneel on for as long as it takes him/her to tell the truth. The practice is said to have curb crime wave in this region down to as much as 60%.\n"}
{"id": "45393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45393", "title": "Nearctic realm", "text": "Nearctic realm\n\nThe Nearctic is one of the eight biogeographic realms constituting the Earth's land surface.\nThe Nearctic realm covers most of North America, including Greenland, Central Florida, and the highlands of Mexico. The parts of North America that are not in the Nearctic realm are Eastern Mexico, Southern Florida, coastal Central Florida, Central America, and the Caribbean islands which are part of the Neotropical realm, together with South America.\n\nThe World Wildlife Fund (WWF) divides the Nearctic into four bioregions, defined as \"geographic clusters of ecoregions that may span several habitat types, but have strong biogeographic affinities, particularly at taxonomic levels higher than the species level (genus, family).\"\n\nThe Canadian Shield bioregion extends across the northern portion of the continent, from the Aleutian Islands to Newfoundland. It includes the Nearctic's Arctic Tundra and Boreal forest ecoregions.\n\nIn terms of floristic provinces, it is represented by part of the Canadian Province of the Circumboreal Region.\n\nThe Eastern North America bioregion includes the temperate broadleaf and mixed forests of the Eastern United States and southeastern Canada, the Great Plains temperate grasslands of the Central United States and south-central Canada, the temperate coniferous forests of the Southeastern United States, including Central Florida. In terms of floristic provinces, it is represented by the North American Atlantic Region and part of the Canadian Province of the Circumboreal Region.\n\nThe Western North America bioregion includes the temperate coniferous forests of the coastal and mountain regions of southern Alaska, western Canada, and the Western United States from the Pacific Coast and Northern California to the Rocky Mountains, as well as the cold-winter intermountain deserts and xeric shrublands and temperate grasslands and shrublands of the Western United States.\n\nIn terms of floristic provinces, it is represented by the Rocky Mountain region.\n\nThe Northern Mexico bioregion includes the mild-winter to cold-winter deserts and xeric shrublands of northern Mexico, Southern California, and the Southwestern United States, including the Chihuahuan, Sonoran, and Mojave Deserts. The Mediterranean climate ecoregions of the Southern and Central Coast of California include the California chaparral and woodlands, California coastal sage and chaparral, California interior chaparral and woodlands, and California montane chaparral and woodlands.\n\nThe bioregion also includes the warm temperate and subtropical pine and pine-oak forests, including the Arizona Mountains forests and the Sierra Madre Occidental, Sierra Madre Oriental, and Sierra Juarez and San Pedro Martir pine-oak forests.\n\nIn terms of floristic provinces, it is represented by the Madrean Region.\n\nAlthough North America and South America are presently joined by the Isthmus of Panama, these continents were separated for about 180 million years, and evolved very different plant and animal lineages. When the ancient supercontinent of Pangaea split into two about 180 million years ago, North America remained joined to Eurasia as part of the supercontinent of Laurasia, while South America was part of the supercontinent of Gondwana. North America later split from Eurasia. North America has been joined by land bridges to both Asia and South America since then, which allowed an exchange of plant and animal species between the continents, the Great American Interchange.\n\nA former land bridge across the Bering Strait between Asia and North America allowed many plants and animals to move between these continents, and the Nearctic realm shares many plants and animals with the Palearctic. The two realms are sometimes included in a single Holarctic realm.\n\nMany large animals, or megafauna, including horses, camels, mammoths, mastodonts, ground sloths, sabre-tooth cats (\"Smilodon\"), the giant short-faced bear (\"Arctodus simus\"), and the cheetah, became extinct in North America at the end of the Pleistocene epoch (ice ages), at the same time the first evidence of humans appeared, in what is called the Holocene extinction event. Previously, the megafaunal extinctions were believed to have been caused by the changing climate, but many scientists now believe, while the climate change contributed to these extinctions, the primary cause was hunting by newly arrived humans or, in the case of some large predators, extinction resulting from prey becoming scarce. The American bison (\"Bison bison\"), brown bear or grizzly bear (\"Ursus arctos\"), moose or Eurasian elk (\"Alces alces\"), and elk or wapiti (\"Cervus canadensis\") entered North America around the same time as the first humans, and expanded rapidly, filling ecological niches left empty by the newly extinct North American megafauna.\n\nAnimals originally unique to the Nearctic include:\n\nOne bird family, the wrentits (Timaliinae), is endemic to the Nearctic region. The Holarctic has four endemic families: divers (Gaviidae), grouse (Tetraoninae), auks (Alcidae), and the waxwings (Bombycillidae). The scarab beetle families Pleocomidae and Diphyllostomatidae (Coleoptera) are also endemic to the Nearctic. The fly species \"Cynomya cadaverina\" is also found in high numbers in this area.\n\nPlants families endemic or nearly endemic to the Nearctic include the Crossosomataceae, Simmondsiaceae, and Limnanthaceae.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47376875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47376875", "title": "Past sea level", "text": "Past sea level\n\nGlobal or eustatic sea level has fluctuated significantly over the Earth's history. The main factors affecting sea level are the amount and volume of available water and the shape and volume of the ocean basins. The primary influences on water volume are the temperature of the seawater, which affects density, and the amounts of water retained in other reservoirs like rivers, aquifers, lakes, glaciers, polar ice caps and sea ice. Over geological timescales, changes in the shape of the oceanic basins and in land/sea distribution affect sea level. In addition to eustatic changes, local changes in sea level are caused by tectonic uplift and subsidence.\n\nOver geologic time sea level has fluctuated by more than 300 metres, possibly more than 400 metres. The main reason for sea level fluctuations \nis the Antarctic ice sheet and Antarctic post-glacial rebound during warm periods.\n\nThe current sea level is about 130 metres higher than the historical minimum, and more than 200 metres lower than the historical maximum, about 100 million years ago.\nHistorically low levels were reached during the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM), about 20,000 years ago. \nThe last time the sea level was higher than today was during the Eemian, about 130,000 years ago.\n\nOver a shorter timescale, the low level reached during the LGM rebounded in the early Holocene, between about 14,000 and 6,000 years ago, and sea levels have been comparably stable over the past 6,000 years. Observational and modeling studies of mass loss from glaciers and ice caps indicate a contribution to a sea-level rise of 2 to 4 cm over the 20th century. \nBased on orbital models, the cooling trend initiated about 6,000 years ago will continue for another 23,000 years. It is possible, however, that a \"next glacial maximum\" will be reached only in about 100,000 years, with a possible warm period in 60,000 years.\n\nEach year about of water from the entire surface of the oceans falls onto the Antarctica and Greenland ice sheets as snowfall. If no ice returned to the oceans, sea level would drop every year. To a first approximation, the same amount of water appeared to return to the ocean in icebergs and from ice melting at the edges. Scientists previously had estimated which is greater, ice going in or coming out, called the mass balance, important because it causes changes in global sea level. High-precision gravimetry from satellites in low-noise flight has since determined that in 2006, the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets experienced a combined mass loss of 475 ± 158 Gt/yr, equivalent to 1.3 ± 0.4 mm/yr sea level rise. Notably, the acceleration in ice sheet loss from 1988–2006 was 21.9 ± 1 Gt/yr² for Greenland and 14.5 ± 2 Gt/yr² for Antarctica, for a combined total of 36.3 ± 2 Gt/yr². This acceleration is 3 times larger than for mountain glaciers and ice caps (12 ± 6 Gt/yr²).\n\nIce shelves float on the surface of the sea and, if they melt, to first order they do not change sea level. Likewise, the melting of the northern polar ice cap which is composed of floating pack ice would not significantly contribute to rising sea levels. However, because floating ice pack is lower in salinity than seawater, their melting would cause a very small increase in sea levels, so small that it is generally neglected.\n\n\nThe current rise in sea level observed from tide gauges, of about 1.8 mm/yr, is within the estimate range from the combination of factors above, but active research continues in this field. The terrestrial storage term, thought to be highly uncertain, is no longer positive, and shown to be quite large.\n\nAt times during Earth's long history, the configuration of the continents and sea floor has changed due to plate tectonics. This affects global sea level by altering the depths of various ocean basins and also by altering glacier distribution with resulting changes in glacial-interglacial cycles. Changes in glacial-interglacial cycles are at least partially affected by changes in glacier distributions across the a Earth.\n\nThe depth of the ocean basins is a function of the age of oceanic lithosphere (the tectonic plates beneath the floors of the world's oceans). As older plates age, they become denser and sink, allowing newer plates to rise and take their place. Therefore, a configuration with many small oceanic plates that rapidly recycle the oceanic lithosphere would produce shallower ocean basins and (all other things being equal) higher sea levels. A configuration with fewer plates and more cold, dense oceanic lithosphere, on the other hand, would result in deeper ocean basins and lower sea levels.\n\nWhen there was much continental crust near the poles, the rock record shows unusually low sea levels during ice ages, because there was much polar land mass on which snow and ice could accumulate. During times when the land masses clustered around the equator, ice ages had much less effect on sea level.\n\nOver most of geologic time, the long-term mean sea level has been higher than today (see graph above). Only at the Permian-Triassic boundary ~250 million years ago was the long-term mean sea level lower than today. Long term changes in the mean sea level are the result of changes in the oceanic crust, with a downward trend expected to continue in the very long term.\n\nDuring the glacial-interglacial cycles over the past few million years, the mean sea level has varied by somewhat more than a hundred metres. This is primarily due to the growth and decay of ice sheets (mostly in the northern hemisphere) with water evaporated from the sea.\n\nThe Mediterranean Basin's gradual growth as the Neotethys basin, begun in the Jurassic, did not suddenly affect ocean levels. While the Mediterranean was forming during the past 100 million years, the average ocean level was generally 200 metres above current levels. However, the largest known example of marine flooding was when the Atlantic breached the Strait of Gibraltar at the end of the Messinian Salinity Crisis about 5.2 million years ago. This restored Mediterranean sea levels at the sudden end of the period when that basin had dried up, apparently due to geologic forces in the area of the Strait.\n\nSea level has changed over geologic time. As the graph shows, sea level today is very near the lowest level ever attained (the lowest level occurred at the Permian-Triassic boundary about 250 million years ago).\n\nDuring the most recent ice age (at its maximum about 20,000 years ago) the world's sea level was about 130 m lower than today, due to the large amount of sea water that had evaporated and been deposited as snow and ice, mostly in the Laurentide ice sheet. Most of this had melted by about 10,000 years ago.\n\nHundreds of similar glacial cycles have occurred throughout the Earth's history. Geologists who study the positions of coastal sediment deposits through time have noted dozens of similar basinward shifts of shorelines associated with a later recovery. This results in sedimentary cycles which in some cases can be correlated around the world with great confidence. This relatively new branch of geological science linking eustatic sea level to sedimentary deposits is called sequence stratigraphy.\n\nThe most up-to-date chronology of sea level change through the Phanerozoic shows the following long-term trends:\n\nDuring deglaciation between about 19–8 ka, sea level rose at extremely high rates as the result of the rapid melting of the British-Irish Sea, Fennoscandian, Laurentide, Barents-Kara, Patagonian, Innuitian ice sheets and parts of the Antarctic ice sheet. At the onset of deglaciation about 19,000 calendar years ago, a brief, at most 500-year long, glacio-eustatic event may have contributed as much as 10 m to sea level with an average rate of about 20 mm/yr. During the rest of the early Holocene, the rate of sea level rise varied from a low of about 6.0–9.9  mm/yr to as high as 30–60  mm/yr during brief periods of accelerated sea level rise.\n\nSolid geological evidence, based largely upon analysis of deep cores of coral reefs, exists only for 3 major periods of accelerated sea level rise, called \"meltwater pulses\", during the last deglaciation. They are Meltwater pulse 1A between circa 14,600 and 14,300 calendar years ago; Meltwater pulse 1B between circa 11,400 and 11,100 calendar years ago; and Meltwater pulse 1C between 8,200 and 7,600 calendar years ago. Meltwater pulse 1A was a 13.5 m rise over about 290 years centered at 14,200 calendar years ago and Meltwater pulse 1B was a 7.5 m rise over about 160 years centered at 11,000 years calendar years ago. In sharp contrast, the period between 14,300 and 11,100 calendar years ago, which includes the Younger Dryas interval, was an interval of reduced sea level rise at about 6.0–9.9  mm/yr. Meltwater pulse 1C was centered at 8,000 calendar years and produced a rise of 6.5 m in less than 140 years. Such rapid rates of sea level rising during meltwater events clearly implicate major ice-loss events related to ice sheet collapse. The primary source may have been meltwater from the Antarctic ice sheet. Other studies suggest a Northern Hemisphere source for the meltwater in the Laurentide ice sheet.\n\nRecently, it has become widely accepted that late Holocene, 3,000 calendar years ago to present, sea level was nearly stable prior to an acceleration of rate of rise that is variously dated between 1850 and 1900 AD. Late Holocene rates of sea level rise have been estimated using evidence from archaeological sites and late Holocene tidal marsh sediments, combined with tide gauge and satellite records and geophysical modeling. For example, this research included studies of Roman wells in Caesarea and of Roman \"piscinae\" in Italy. These methods in combination suggest a mean eustatic component of 0.07 mm/yr for the last 2000 years.\n\nSince 1880, the ocean began to rise briskly, climbing a total of through 2009 causing extensive erosion worldwide and costing billions.\n\nSea level rose by 6 cm during the 19th century and 19 cm in the 20th century. Evidence for this includes geological observations, the longest instrumental records and the observed rate of 20th century sea level rise. For example, geological observations indicate that during the last 2,000 years, sea level change was small, with an average rate of only 0.0–0.2 mm per year. This compares to an average rate of 1.7 ± 0.5 mm per year for the 20th century. Baart et al. (2012) show that it is important to account for the effect of the 18.6-year lunar nodal cycle before acceleration in sea level rise should be concluded. Based on tide gauge data, the rate of global average sea level rise during the 20th century lies in the range 0.8 to 3.3 mm/yr, with an average rate of 1.8 mm/yr.\n"}
{"id": "18432868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18432868", "title": "Quadrilateralized spherical cube", "text": "Quadrilateralized spherical cube\n\nIn mapmaking, a quadrilateralized spherical cube, or quad sphere for short, is an equal-area mapping and binning scheme for data collected on a spherical surface (either that of the Earth or the celestial sphere). It was first proposed in 1975 by Chan and O'Neill for the Naval Environmental Prediction Research Facility.\n\nThis scheme is also often called the COBE sky cube,\nbecause it was designed to hold data from the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) project.\n\nThe quad sphere has two principal characteristic features. The first is that the mapping consists of projecting the sphere onto the faces of an inscribed cube using a curvilinear projection that preserves area. The sphere is divided into six equal regions, which correspond to the faces of the cube. The vertices of the cube correspond to the cartesian coordinates defined by |\"x\"|=|\"y\"|=|\"z\"| on a sphere centred at the origin. For an Earth projection, the cube is usually oriented with one face normal to the North Pole and one face centered on the Greenwich meridian (although any definition of pole and meridian could be used). The faces of the cube are divided into a geodesic grid of square bins, where the number of bins along each edge is a power of 2, selected to produce the desired bin size. Thus the number of bins on each face is 2, where \"N\" is the binning depth, for a total of 6 × 2. For example, a binning depth of 10 gives 1024 × 1024 bins on each face or 6291456 (6 × 2) in all, each bin covering an area of 23.6 square arcminutes (2.00 microsteradians).\n\nThe second key feature is that the bins are numbered serially, rather than being rastered as for an image. The total number of bits required for the bin numbers at level \"N\" is 2\"N\" + 3, where the three most significant bits are used for the face numbers and the remaining bits are used to number the bins within each face. The faces are numbered from 0 to 5: 0 for the north face, 1 through 4 for the equatorial faces (1 being on the meridian), and 5 for the south. Thus at a binning depth of 10, face 0 has bin numbers 0–1,048,575, face 1 has numbers 1,048,576–2,097,151, and so on. Within each face the bins are numbered serially from one corner (the convention is to start at the \"lower left\") to the opposite corner, ordered in such a way that each pair of bits corresponds to a level of bin resolution. This ordering is in effect a two-dimensional binary tree, which is referred to as the \"quad-tree\". The conversion between bin numbers and coordinates is straightforward. If four-byte integers are used for the bin numbers the maximum practical depth, which uses 31 of the 32 bits, results in a bin size of 0.0922 square arcminutes (7.80 nanosteradians).\n\nIn principle, the mapping and numbering schemes are separable: the map projection onto the cube could be used with another bin-numbering scheme, and the numbering scheme itself could be used with any arrangement of bins susceptible to partitioning into a set of square arrays. Used together, they make a flexible and efficient system for storing map data.\n\nThe quad sphere projection does not produce singularities at the poles or elsewhere, as do some other equal-area mapping schemes. Distortion is moderate over the entire sphere, so that at no point are shapes altered beyond recognition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30568215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30568215", "title": "Sandplain", "text": "Sandplain\n\nA sandplain is an area where the soil is sand deposited from elsewhere by processes such as wind or ocean, rather than direct weathering of bedrock.\n\nSandplains are quite flat. There may be dune systems, and given time and the right conditions these may form eolianite ridges, but other than that there is little to give a sandplain any topographical character.\n\nInland sandplains are often extremely infertile, because the sand is often low in nutrients when deposited, plus the good drainage means any nutrients are rapidly leached away.\n\nCoastal sandplains in intertidal zones like those seen in the Wadden Sea in western Europe for example, are wet with nutrients added continuously, so they can often support a very rich and important fauna of birds, worms, mussels, etc..\n\nIn North America, sandplains are often vegetated by pine barrens. In Western Australia, kwongan is the dominant vegetation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15437022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15437022", "title": "Slovene Lands", "text": "Slovene Lands\n\nSlovene Lands or Slovenian Lands ( or in short ) is the historical denomination for the territories in Central and Southern Europe where people primarily spoke Slovene. The Slovene Lands were part of the Illyrian provinces, the Austrian Empire and Austria-Hungary (in Cisleithania). They encompassed Carniola, southern part of Carinthia, southern part of Styria, Istria, Gorizia and Gradisca, Trieste, and Prekmurje. Their territory more or less corresponds to modern Slovenia and the adjacent territories in Italy, Austria, Hungary, and Croatia, where autochthonous Slovene minorities live. In the areas where present-day Slovenia borders to neighboring countries, they were never homogeneously ethnically Slovene.\n\nLike the Slovaks, the Slovenes preserve the self-designation of the early Slavs as their ethnonym. The term \"Slovenia\" (\"Slovenija\") was not in use prior to the early 19th century, when it was coined for political purposes by the Slovene romantic nationalists, most probably by some pupils of the linguist Jernej Kopitar. It started to be used only from the 1840s on, when the quest for a politically autonomous United Slovenia within the Austrian Empire was first advanced during the Spring of Nations. \"Slovenia\" became a \"de facto\" distinctive administrative and political entity for the first time in 1918, with the unilateral declaration of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs, that Slovenia.\n\nAlthough Slovenia did not exist as an autonomous administrative unit between 1921 and 1941, the Drava Banovina of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was frequently called simply \"Slovenia\", even in some official documents.\n\nConsequently, most Slovene scholars prefer to refer to the \"Slovene Lands\" in English rather than \"Slovenia\" to describe the territory of modern Slovenia and neighbouring areas in earlier times. The use of the English term \"Slovenia\" is generally considered by Slovene scholars to be anachronistic due to its modern origin.\n\nIn the 19th century, the territories regarded as part of the Slovene Lands were:\n\n\nThe Žumberak and the area around Čabar, which today belong to Croatia, were long part of the Duchy of Carniola, and thus generally regarded as part of the Slovene Lands, especially prior to the emergence of Romantic nationalism in the 19th century, when the exact ethnic border between Slovenes and Croats had not yet been specified.\n\nNot all of the territories referred to as \"Slovene Lands\" have always had a Slovene-speaking majority. Several towns, especially in Lower Styria, maintained a German-speaking majority until the late 1910s, most notably Maribor, Celje and Ptuj. The area around Kočevje in Lower Carniola, known as the Gottschee County, had a predominantly German-speaking population between the 14th century and 1941 when they were resettled in an agreement between Nazi German and Fascist Italian occupation forces. A similar German \"linguistic island\" within an ethnically Slovene territory existed in what is now the Italian \"comune\" of Tarvisio, but used to belong to the Duchy of Carinthia until 1919. The city of Trieste, whose municipal territory has been regarded by Slovenes to be an integral part of the Slovene Lands, has always had a Romance-speaking majority (first Friulian, then Venetian and Italian). A similar case is that of the town of Gorizia, which served as a major religious center of the Slovene Lands for centuries, but was inhabited by a mixed Italian-Slovene-Friulian-German population. The towns of Koper, Izola and Piran, surrounded by an ethnically Slovene population, were inhabited almost exclusively by Venetian-speaking Italians until the Istrian exodus in the late 1940s and 1950s, as were large areas of the \"comune\" of Muggia. In southern Carinthia, a process of Germanization started by the end of the 1840s, creating several German-speaking areas within what had previously been a compact Slovene territory. Since the late 1950s, most of southern Carinthia has had a German-speaking majority, with the local Slovene minority living in a scattered pattern throughout the area.\n\nOn the other hand, other areas with historically important Slovene communities, such as the Croatian cities of Rijeka and Zagreb, as well as the Slovene villages in the Somogy county of Hungary (the Somogy Slovenes), were never regarded to be part of the Slovene Lands. The same goes for the Slovene communities in south-west Friuli (in the villages of Gradisca, Gradiscutta, Gorizzo, Goricizza, Lestizza, and Belgrado in the lower Tagliamento area) which extinguished themselves by the end of the 16th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95897", "title": "Stockholms ström", "text": "Stockholms ström\n\nStockholms ström, also known as Strömmen, in Stockholm is the innermost part of Saltsjön, a bay of the Baltic Sea. It continues into Lake Mälaren through Norrström and Söderström.\n\n"}
{"id": "38752452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38752452", "title": "Timeline of Caracas", "text": "Timeline of Caracas\n\nThe following is a of the history of the city of Caracas, Venezuela.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the Spanish Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55471462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471462", "title": "Veljunska Glina", "text": "Veljunska Glina\n\nVeljunska Glina is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "7191377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7191377", "title": "Vinex-location", "text": "Vinex-location\n\nVinex (\"Vierde Nota Ruimtelijke Ordening Extra\", translates as Fourth Memorandum Spatial Planning Extra), is a policy briefing note of the Dutch Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment (\"Ministry of VROM\") released in 1988. Large outer city areas were pointed out by the policy for massive new housing development.\n\nTo accommodate the increasing population in the Netherlands the Ministry of VROM determined a number of main points in the Vinex-document for the construction of new housing districts starting in 1993. New districts had to be placed near existing town centers and had to contribute to the following aims:\n\n\nThe Vinex-locations also had to diminish the unfair pricing of housing. This means that certain households live in housing that is too affordable when compared to their income, as a result of which these houses no longer become available to households with a lower income. So they tried to solve the shortage of affordable housing by luring wealthier households to the more expensive Vinex-locations. Nevertheless, the Vinex-locations had a determined share of affordable rentable houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "50344441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50344441", "title": "Vostochny Cosmodrome Site 1S", "text": "Vostochny Cosmodrome Site 1S\n\nSite 1S is a launch complex at the Vostochny Cosmodrome in Russia. It consists of a single pad for use by the Soyuz-2 rockets.\n\nOn April 28, 2016 the first launch from the Vostochny Cosmodrome took place from this pad.\nThe third launch took place on 1 February 2018.\n"}
{"id": "11437092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11437092", "title": "Šmerlis", "text": "Šmerlis\n\nŠmerlis is a forest in Riga, Latvia. It is home to Riga's Movie Studio. Šmerlis can be accessed by trolleybus routes 4 and 16, as well as tram routes 1,3, and 6. Šmerlis is also the site of the only remaining Jewish cemetery in Riga.\n"}
