{"id": "26047100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26047100", "title": "Arcașii lui Ștefan", "text": "Arcașii lui Ștefan\n\nNational Organization of Bessarabia \"Arcaşii lui Ştefan\" (Romanian:\"Organizaţia Naţională din Basarabia \"Arcaşii lui Ştefan\"\") was one of the organized anti-Soviet groups in Bessarabia.\n\nNational Organization of Bessarabia was formed in 1945, on the territory of the former Soroca County by teachers Vasile Bătrânac, Victor Solovei, Nicolae Prăjină, Teodosie Guzun, Anton Romaşcan a student, Nichita Brumă.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9869120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9869120", "title": "Auditor general", "text": "Auditor general\n\nAn auditor general, also known in some countries as a comptroller general or comptroller and auditor general, is a senior civil servant charged with improving government accountability by auditing and reporting on the government's operations.\n\nFrequently, the institution headed by the auditor general is a member of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1441792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1441792", "title": "Badr Organization", "text": "Badr Organization\n\nThe Badr Organization ( \"Munaẓẓama Badr\"), previously known as the Badr Brigades or Badr Corps, is an Iraqi political party headed by Hadi Al-Amiri. The Badr Brigade was the Iran-officered military wing of the Iran-based Shia Islamic party, Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), formed in 1982. Since the 2003 invasion of Iraq most of Badr's fighters have entered the new Iraqi army and police force. Politically, Badr Brigade and SCIRI were considered to be one party since 2003, but have now unofficially separated with the Badr Organization now an official Iraqi political party. Badr Brigade forces, and their Iranian commanders, have come to prominence in 2014 fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Iraq. It is a part of the Popular Mobilization Forces.\n\nThe organization was formed in Iran in 1982 as the military wing of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq. It was based in Iran for two decades during the rule of Saddam Hussein and led by Iranian officers. It consisted of several thousand Iraqi exiles, refugees, and defectors who fought alongside Iranian troops in the Iran–Iraq War. The group was armed and directed by Iran.\n\nThey briefly returned to Iraq in 1991 during the 1991 Iraqi uprising to fight against Saddam Hussein, focusing on the Shia holy cities of Najaf and Karbala. They retreated back into Iran after the uprising was crushed.\n\nIn 1995, during the Kurdish Civil War, Iran deployed 5,000 Badr fighters to Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nReturning to Iraq following the 2003 coalition invasion, the group changed its name from brigade to organization in response to the attempted voluntary disarming of Iraqi militias by the Coalition Provisional Authority. It is however widely believed the organization is still active as a militia within the security forces and it has been accused of running a secret prison and sectarian killings during the Iraqi Civil War.\n\nBecause of their opposition to Saddam Hussein, the Badr Brigade was seen as a U.S. asset in the fight against Baathist partisans. After the fall of Baghdad, Badr forces reportedly joined the newly reconstituted army, police and Interior Ministry in significant numbers. The Interior Ministry was controlled by SCIRI and many Badr members became part of the Interior Ministry run Wolf Brigade. The Iraqi Interior Minister, Bayan Jabr, was a former leader of Badr Brigade militia.\n\nIn 2006 the United Nations human rights chief in Iraq, John Pace, said that hundreds of Iraqis were being tortured to death or executed by the Interior Ministry under SCIRI's control.\nAccording to a 2006 report by the Independent newspaper:\n\n'Mr Pace said the Ministry of the Interior was \"acting as a rogue element within the government\". It is controlled by the main Shia party, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (Sciri); the Interior Minister, Baqir Jabr al-Zubeidi, is a former leader of Sciri's Badr Brigade militia, which is one of the main groups accused of carrying out sectarian killings. Another is the Mehdi Army of the young cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, who is part of the Shia coalition seeking to form a government after winning the mid-December election.\nMany of the 110,000 policemen and police commandos under the ministry's control are suspected of being former members of the Badr Brigade. Not only counter-insurgency units such as the Wolf Brigade, the Scorpions and the Tigers, but the commandos and even the highway patrol police have been accused of acting as death squads.\n\nThe paramilitary commandos, dressed in garish camouflage uniforms and driving around in pick-up trucks, are dreaded in Sunni neighbourhoods. People whom they have openly arrested have frequently been found dead several days later, with their bodies bearing obvious marks of torture.'\n\nFollowing ISIL's successful Anbar campaign and June 2014 offensive, the Badr Organization mobilized and won a series of battles against ISIL, including the Liberation of Jurf Al Sakhar and lift the Lifting of the Siege of Amirli. In early February 2015 the group, operating from its base at Camp Ashraf, fought in Diyala Governorate against ISIL. Over 100 militia were killed in the fighting including 25 in Al Mansouryah. Badr's leader, Hadi Al-Amiri, said his militiamen were committed to the safety of Sunnis, but deep mutual suspicions remained in the light of recent sectarian killings and suspicion that some Sunni tribes were allied with IS.\n\nThe Badr Corps consists of infantry, armor, artillery, anti-aircraft, and commando units with an estimated strength of between 10,000 and 50,000 men (according to the Badr Organization).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "186319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186319", "title": "Boricua Popular Army", "text": "Boricua Popular Army\n\nThe Ejército Popular Boricua (\"Boricua Popular/People's Army\"), also known as Los Macheteros (\"The Machete Wielders\"), is a clandestine organization based in Puerto Rico, with cells in the states and other nations. It campaigns for, and supports, the independence of Puerto Rico from the United States.\n\nDuring their first decade of existence, they had an average of two actions per year. The group claimed responsibility for the 1978 bombing of a small power station in the San Juan area, the 1979 retaliation attacks against the United States armed forces personnel, the 1981 attacks on Puerto Rico Air National Guard aircraft, and a 1983 Wells Fargo bank robbery.\n\nBoricua Popular Army was led primarily by former FBI fugitive Filiberto Ojeda Ríos until his killing by the FBI in 2005. Ojeda Rios's killing was termed \"an illegal killing\" by the Government of Puerto Rico's \"Comision de Derechos Civiles\" (Civil Rights Commission) after a seven-year investigation and a 227-page report issued on 22 September 2011.\n\nIn a training manual dated March 21, 1995, the EPB argued that \"in the past the people struggled against injustice without being able to identify the central maladies from which they originated\", but that \"thanks to [the advent] of Marxism now allowed [them] to identify the origin and reason [behind them].\" This assertion would later be quoted when explaining the organization's strategy of \"scientific Marxism\", which they established as the main basis for their martial methodology. Ojeda Ríos's main thesis states that the 1898 invasion by the United States represented \"meddling in the struggle\" that the people \"had been waging against Spanish colonialism for 400 years\".\n\nThe name \"Machetero\" was symbolically adopted from an impromptu band of Puerto Ricans who assembled to defend the island of Puerto Rico from the invading forces of the United States Army during the Spanish–American War, between July 26 and August 12, 1898. \"Macheteros de Puerto Rico\" were dispatched throughout the island, working in cooperation with other voluntary groups including the \"Guardias de la Paz\" in Yauco and \"Tiradores de Altura\" in San Juan. These voluntary units were involved in most of the battles in the Puerto Rican Campaign. Their last involvement was in the \"Battle of Asomante\", where along with units led by Captain Hernaíz, defended Aibonito Pass from invading units. The allied offensive was effective, prompting a retreat order from the American side. However, the following morning the signing of the Treaty of Paris was made public. Subsequently, both Spanish and Puerto Rican soldiers and volunteers disengaged and Puerto Rico was annexed by the United States.\n\nAs established in the EPB's \"Organization of the EPB\", the organization operates in a systemic and hierarchic structure. The entire organization is overseen by a central committee, which is generally focused on politics and policies. Beneath it lies a military commission, which in turn is divided by sub commissions specialized in finances, intelligence, transportation, provisions and general services and others as needed. Each commando receives additional salary, with specific exemptions being given to marriages, unemployed individuals and those with dependents. In December 1981, the EPB included benefits similar to those in the American military. The organization agreed to medical services and college education pending commission approval. New recruits may be covertly trained in rural farms or in foreign countries (Cuba being an example) and inconspicuous businesses may be used to provide cover to certain individuals. Training includes skills such as lock picking, handling firearms and explosives, forging documents, scuba diving, photography, concealment using makeup and forging license plates. An exercise regime is expected from commandoes afterwards. Meeting are kept to a minimum and only held when relevant.\n\nThe basic units are the \"combat units\", composed of five foot soldiers that are led by a leader with ties to the political branch. Their weapons and munitions are arbitrarily divided by type: short weapons, semi automatic weapons, rifles and shotguns are present in each unit to ensure balance. A car was also provided and used both for meetings and in incursions without attracting attention. Units in turn subscribe to specific 17-men cells, with three of the unit leaders forming the hierarchy along a pair if political and military leaders. These cells generally aim to have equipment that is comparable to the American military or law enforcement agencies. Additional support cells include trained medical personnel and are mostly in charge of logistics, maintenance, vehicles, equipment and media. Cells form 73-men formations in charge of a political member, which are assigned to specific districts and are generally independent of each other. The EPB usually plans in advance and establishes networks in places of interest, such as those in New York, Boston, Illinois, Texas and Connecticut used in the Wells Fargo heist of 1983.\n\nUpon its beginnings, the group attracted a variety of Puerto Rican independence supporters, including some of the members of the University Pro-Independence Federation of Puerto Rico (FUPI) and the Pro-Independence Movement. For the most part, individuals affiliated with the EPB are expected to merge into general society and be as inconspicuous as possible, usually holding civilian jobs or studying, some receiving training within the United States military. In 2006, professor Michael González Cruz published his book \"Nacionalismo Revolucionario Puertorriqueño\" a calculation that placed the active EPB members at approximately 5,700, with an additional unknown number of supporters, sympathizers, collaborators and informants throughout the U.S. and other countries. A report by \"The Economist\" estimated the number of active members to be around 1,100, excluding supporters.\n\nThe group intentionally avoids any area where crime rates could result in frequent law enforcement interventions and commandos are instructed to be polite and are warned to stay away from illegal activities; association or deals with criminal organizations are prohibited. In keeping a discipline code, the organization also discourages the use of alcohol and prohibits the use of drugs. The EPB attempts to stay away from areas where other nationalist groups are based in order to avoid attention. There also settle away from military of police stations. Meetings are generally held in places with good reputation and in buildings that offer several access points, with heavy precautions being taken to reach their locations untailed. If different units are meeting, commandoes are instructed to place hoods or masks and use codenames in order to protect their identities, both to accomplish plausible denial and to root out any law enforcement plant. Information is segregated between groups and only shared in limited detail, when necessary. Incriminating or detailed documents or any other evidence is to be destroyed once the potential of a law enforcement intervention is apparent. While involved in a particular mission, the EPB commandoes regularly assume a faux name, but they usually use this to acquire legitimate documents and select a nondescript address in which to receive mail in a fashion that prevents surveillance, such a P.O. Box or an decoy address where mail is delivered to the community in general. Even ammunitions were given codes such as \"Manteca\" for firearms or \"Libretas\" for explosives to conceal their nature. Armories were specifically retrofitted to preserve the condition and to prepare new ammunition as needed. Funds are managed strictly and reports are constant in order to keep a balanced budget.\n\nThe EPB was founded by Filiberto Ojeda Ríos, Juan Enrique Segarra-Palmer and Orlando González Claudio on July 26, 1976, with the date being symbolically used as a reminder of the United States invasion during the Spanish–American War. It can trace its origins back to the Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN).\n\nTheir first communiqué was published on August 25, 1978, following an attack on two policemen that concluded with officer Julio Rodríguez Rivera dead in retaliation for the Cerro Maravilla murders. The federal government claimed the incident was an attempt to steal his police car. On October 2, 1978, the EPB and Volunteers infiltrated an armory and took 500 pounds of ammonium nitrate, dynamite cartridges, 988 blasting caps and 17,500 feet of primacord. In September 1979, the EPB revealed that it was working in conjunction with the Volunteers, FARP and FALN.\n\nFollowing the murder of Negociado de Investigaciones Criminales (NIC) officer Néstor Rivas, an anonymous caller contacted the media and after identifying himself as a member of the EBP, took responsibility for the act. This information became widespread throughout news outlets and in printed press. On January 1, 1979, the organization distanced itself from this crime in a press release and speculated that the anonymous informant may have been involved in a counter-intelligence operation of the FBI or the CIA claiming that they had done so \"hundreds of times\" before, also involving \"intelligence sectors\" within the police itself. Locally, the organization cited an FBI report that explained how the agency had sent several letters with the intention of affecting the image of pro-independence leaders, while also citing the books of Phillip Agee y Wolf to illustrate similar practices in other locations. The EBP closed this communique by stating killing policemen was not a policy of the group, and \"that if one was to fall, it would be while he was directly interfering\" with their goals. The organization then reviewed the method that was used to communicate with the media, stating that all calls were to be followed by an official statement with a password being provided as authentication, and that only journalists that were known not share their sources would be contacted. Later that month, the group issued a statement supporting inhabitants of the island municipality of Vieques, who were involved in a campaign to stop military operations of the United States Navy there. The EBP offered its support on behalf of several clandestine organizations and predicted that they would be traveling to Vieques in a near future.\n\nDuring the morning hours (approx. 1:00 a.m.) of October 1, 1979, two combat units of the EPB in collaboration with Organización de Voluntarils por la Revolución Puertorriqueña (OVRP) members infiltrated an armory located in the Puerto Rico Highway 2 near the municipality of Manatí. After avoiding security, the groups extracted five hundred pounds of\nammonium nitrate, fifty-two dynamite sticks, one hundred and twelve iremite sticks, close to a thousand detonators and 17,500 feet of detonating cord. Later that day, the organizations released two press releases where they emphasized that no side suffered any casualty, stating their stance that \"as a revolutionary army, [they would] respect the lives of anyone that is judged to be a victim of the system\" as well as that \"of those enemies that surrender or are taken as prisoners.\" Citing these policies to establish a contrast with the manner in which the Romero administration handled the Cerro Maravilla murders and to criticize government downsizing, the EPB also warned that \"[they] will be implacable\" against anyone that \"exploits and betrays\" them or that serves as an obstacle to their goals. Later that month, during the commemoration of the Jayuya Uprising, the group published a draft notice where they claimed that it was \"not just another political-military organization\", but \"a military structure being formed\" and warned that they intended to act \"in military fashion [and] guided by the laws of war\". Noting their willingness to take their conflict \"to the final consequences, the group emphasized that it was \"not playing war\". Directly identifying the United States \"and its collaborators\" as their enemy, the EBP stated that \"despite treating the public with the upmost responsibility\", their sworn enemy would be subjected to trial and if necessary executed. After further distancing themselves from the modus operandi other revolutionary movement, the organization urged potential draftees to \"earn physical conditioning\" and opened the door to less militant individuals to take a place within their combat units.\nOn October 17, 1979, the groups execute eight bombings against federal buildings.\n\nOn December 3, 1979, commandos opened fire on a bus carrying sailors to Naval Security Group Activity Sabana Seca, killing CTO1 John R. Ball and RM3 Emil E. White, as well as wounding nine others. The EBP issues a joint release with the OVRP and FARP taking responsibility for the attack. The organizations cited that it was a retaliation for Cerro Maravilla and the recent death of Ángel Rodríguez Cristóbal, who died in a federal prison in Tallahassee, Florida after being arrested for interrupting military exercises in Vieques during May of that year. The mystery surrounding his death while in custody led the EPB to believe that he had been murdered in an attempt to intimidate the independence movement, leading to a declaration that \"blood would be paid with blood\" and that they would retaliate against the United States military if another independentist died in similar circumstances. The organization closed this communique by citing the Geneva convention and urging the United States to protect the safety of its prisoners.\n\nOn December 9, 1979, a bus carrying 18 American Navy sailors was forced to stop by a delivery truck. Shortly afterwards, four men appeared from within another vehicle and opened fire, killing Emil White and John Ball. Both the EPB and the OVPRR accepted responsibility for the attack, citing it as payback for the unclarified death of Ángel Rodríguez Cristóbal (previously arrested for protesting the Navy's activities in the island of Vieques) in a federal prison in Tallahassee, which had raised controversy because the photographic evidence displayed signs of contusions and contradicted the official account that he had simply committed suicide. On March 13, 1980, the EPB took responsibility for attacking an ROTC vehicle that was moving three soldiers to the UPR.\n\nOn April 9, 1980, five days after an FBI operation concluded with the arrest of eleven members of FALN in Chicago, Illinois, the EBP joined that organization, as well as OVRP and FARP, in a joint release. The groups minimized the impact of the arrests in their operations, claiming that they were getting systematically stronger, and that \"independence will be conquered no matter the cost\". The organization expressed their full support to the FALN members in custody and once again requested that the United States guaranted their security as \"prisoners of war\" per the Geneva convention, this time also asking the international community to be vocal. The alliance also stated that \"on behalf of their martyrs\" they would \"never stop the struggle\", and insisted that they had the means to respond by force if their security was compromised.\n\nIn the morning of January 12, 1981, a group of eleven commandoes, seven guards and four explosive specialists, set explosives at Muñiz Air National Guard Base, located on the northeastern corner of the Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan. The ensuing explosion destroyed nine aircraft (several A-7 Corsair II light attack aircraft and a single F-104 Starfighter supersonic fighter-interceptor aircraft) and two trucks and damaged two ships on loan from the US Air Force, with the authors leaving a machete behind. The destruction of the military equipment ascended to $45–50 millions. The following day, the EPB accepted responsibility for the damage, officially calling the infiltration of Muñiz base \"Military Operative Pitirre II\", citing that it was in retaliation to actions taken by the statehood movement that they judged detrimental to poor sectors of the public. The deaths at Cerro Maravilla, as well as those of activist Juan Rafael Caballero and civilian Adolfina Villanueva at the hands of the police, were cited as examples of this practice during the Romero Barceló administration. The organization also called it an \"act of solidarity\" with the Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front of El Salvador, which was involved in a military campaign against the administration of the Revolutionary Government Junta, a military and political ally of the United States, since there was a possibility that local civil guard members were going to be called to duty to intervene in that conflict. Citing that the territorial status had been recognized in a resolution approved by \"majority in the United Nations\", the EBP stated that in their vision of an independent Puerto Rico service in a foreign military and the presence of foreign military bases would be abolished, arguing that the presence of the latter \"exposed [Puerto Rico] to nuclear extermination\".\n\nThe FBI responded by receiving permission for a full investigation, which allowed them to employ otherwise forbidden practices to track the group. The EPB in turn expressed pride that the attack represented the most damaging to take place in American soil since Pearl Harbor and expressed satisfaction that it would attract attention to their cause, with some members even considering it a parallel to the Gaspee Affair. The group also sent a video to the media where they explained the composition of the cell in charge of the attack without revealing any identities. The security at the base was criticized in media pieces. The attack later served as the basis for upgrading base security, emphasizing flight line security, at all Air National Guard installations on civilian airports in the United States to the same level as active duty U.S. Air Force installations.\n\nOn April 21, 1981, four EPB commandos were able to extract $348,000 from a Wells Fargo armored car, with the group later noting that it would be spent in their cause. In November 1981, the EPB detonated explosives in AEE substations in Santurce, a district of San Juan. When 350 families that occupied a makeshift village in Carolina, Puerto Rico, were removed by the police, the EPB warned the governor that they would retaliate. Afterwards, they made an offensive against the police that resulted in twelve injured and one dead policeman.\n\nOn June 17, 1981, the EBP, OVRP and PRTP issued a joint statement after no updates were provided on the status of arrested FALN member Freddy Méndez calling this period of silence \"a kidnapping\". Citing the tactics of CIA operative Dan Mitrione in Uruguay and similar interventions by the United States military in Argentina and Chile as part of Operation Condor, as well as allegations against the Phoenix Program in Vietnam, the organizations wondered if Méndez had been tortured and damaged to the point that publicly presenting him would cause a press crisis or if he had been killed in the process. Further quoting the previous use of drugs against prisoners by the FBI and the CIA in projects such as Project MKUltra, and the military use of truth serums, the organizations claimed that these tactics were unsuccessfully used against Rodríguez Cristóbal and that his death was a measure taken in response. Stating that in their opinion the case of Méndez had similarities, the alliance issued an ultimatum to the FBI, promising retaliation in no updates were provided within ten days.\n\nOn May 16, 1982, EPB members fired rifles at four sailors of the U.S.S. \"Pensacola\", killing one of them. The group later took responsibility for the attack and expressed that it was retaliation for a large scale amphibious attack training named \"Ocean Venture '82\" held at Vieques and other military facilities in Puerto Rico. Four days later, On May 20, 1982, the FBI held the EPB responsible for the placement of four defective bombs at the Caribe Hilton Hotel, with the organization denying responsibility. On September 1, 1982, a group of commandos presumed by the FBI to be Macheteros and outfitted with suppressed weapons and wearing military gear and masks, intercepted a Wells Fargo truck in a route between San Juan and Naranjito, but where unable to acquire the cargo. On November 16, 1982, four commandos feigned a heist in a supermarket to redirect those present to its warehouse until their main target, a Wells Fargo truck, arrived. Supported by more armed commandos that arrived in a van, those inside the building gained control of the armored car keys and took $300,000 from it.\n\nOn September 12, 1983, in an operation entitled \"Águila Blanca\" (\"White Eagle\", the nickname of José Maldonado Román) an EPB agent part of the \"Los Taínos\" cell named Víctor Manuel Gerena took over the Wells Fargo depot located in West Hartford, Connecticut stealing a total of seven million dollars. Most of the money was taken through the south border and offshore, used most of the remaining sum to fund their continued operations. According to a written statement from the Macheteros, the action was a symbolic protest against the \"greed-infested men and mechanisms which strain our elected officials, government agencies, and social aspirations in this country, as well as in Puerto Rico.\"\n\nIn 1984, Carlos Rodríguez Rodríguez was convicted on bank fraud charges and became an FBI informant in exchange for a lower sentence. However, due to the EPB's policies of anonymity, most of the information was hampered by the use of codenames and useless for the investigation. During this time, there were internal issues between Segarra and group leaders Ojeda and Avelino González, with the first being considered inefficient by the others and general concern arising from his reputation as an unfaithful husband. On January 25, 1985, the EPB detonated a bomb in an empty United States Courthouse, later noting that it was a tribute to Juan Antonio Corretjer.\n\nStrategically, the group experienced internal divisions between a faction that argued for more offensive and another that wanted to thread lightly in order to avoid justifying the classification of terrorism. While the pacifist faction carried damage control and held two toy giveaways for Three Kings Day in Puerto Rico, Ojeda was removed from the political branch on June 4, 1985, due to these conflicts, being only left in charge of his unit. Besides the boldness of the action, the EPB strategists were also unsatisfied when Ramírez failed to account for food expenses in his report.\n\nFollowing the indictments against 19 members for the 1983 Wells Fargo heist, the EPB continued operations and on October 28, 1986, joined the FARP and the Volunteers in planting two explosives in a Navy recruit center and a National Guard Building as a warning not to use Puerto Rico as a training center for the Contras of Nicaragua and plans to introduce a logging industry at El Yunque.\n\nIn 1990, the EPB began what it called a \"reconstruction\" in response to the arrests of 1985. The group selected September 23 as the date in which they would relaunch their campaign in commemoration of the Cry of Lares, citing the importance of the date for Puerto Rico and the independence movement in particular. According to Ojeda Ríos, in order to be able to gauge the actions of the government of the United States during this phase, they were forced to spend months living in the jungle while avoiding contact with those close to them. While this was happening, other close elements resupplied the EPB and provided information. Despite the emotional impact that the distance from his family caused him, Ojeda Ríos expressed satisfaction with their success, citing that in a 2000 interview with \"The New York Times\", local FBI chief was only able to Marlene Hunter identify some of their tactics, while others were wrongly attributed to the EPB.\n\nIn the October–December 1994 issue of the EPB's official newspaper, \"El Machete\", the organization criticized the initiative of the Rosselló administration to amend the Constitution of Puerto Rico to eliminate the absolute right to bail, considering that it directly targeted the lower class. The group also questioned the reasons behind the governor's interest in changing the composition of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, questioning if it was due to an ideological majority that opposed statehood. After citing their perception that the millionaire campaign was \"full of personal insults and lies\", blaming Romero Barceló for this. The EPB considered this a political move to guarantee a strategic position for the statehood movement, ultimately citing it as a \"struggle between the wealthy\" and arguing that the defeat of the initiative was a display of rejection towards political parties by the public. In a separate section, the EPB discussed the commonwealth, labeling it as a \"liberal status\" that was more reminiscent of neocolonialism than historical colonialism and citing the Jayuya uprising as \"a beacon that illuminates\" their goals, citing that it taught the independence movement both positive approaches and mistakes to avoid. Recognizing that continuing to act despite the end of the socialist bloc changed how they are perceived, the organization argued that the territorial status only led to \"more crime, more corruption and more abuse of power\", that it affected the lower classes and prevented a resolution to the status quo, urging its membership to take the example of that uprising to focus its offensive on the \"many weak flanks\" of the commonwealth. The EPB also expressed their condolences for the death of actor Raúl Juliá.\n\nIn the January–March 1995 edition of \"El Machete\", the EBP published an essay discussing the origins of corruption, reaching the conclusion that \"the institutions creates by the capitalist and economic power to regulate the daily life of its citizens [...] represents the biggest example of corruption\" by proving a stage for corrupt individuals seeking individual benefit. In calling for a \"political, economic and social revolution\", the organization concluded that only \"an organized force [could achieve] political liberty.\" In another section, the organization argued that Roselló was an \"inexperienced politician and administration\" and a \"figure manufactured by the wealthy interest to do their bidding\". The EPB cited their belief that the governor was carrying out an agenda to discredit and dismantle the public workforce in an attempt to facilitate statehood by reducing public spending and making Puerto Rico more appealable to the economically conservative elements in the United States. To counter this, the organization urged unions to move \"beyond economic issues and to open [themselves to] national struggle\" against privatization efforts taken by the Rosselló administration. The EPB also criticized the governor and several politicians and such as Romero Barceló, Baltasar Corrada del Rio and General Emilio Díaz Colón that pursued the construction of a new home base for the United States Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM) at Puerto Rico in anticipation of the approaching deadline that the Torrijos-Carter Treaties established for the transfer of control over the Panama Canal from the United States to Panama in 1977. The organization believed that this was an attempt to benefit economically and to fully integrate Puerto Rico into the military apparatus of the United States, \"[inching statehood closer] sip by sip\". Led by advisor Alberto Goachet, the initiative offered to provide satellite dishes, ports, transportation and low cost accommodations and facilities. Citing that the base would serve as to launch incursions that secure control over Latin America, the EPB called out the lack of action by the PIP and its president, Manuel Rodríguez Orellana. The organization also expressed it support to the efforts of eviromentalist organizations that opposed the passing of a Japanese vessel carrying a load of plutonium through the Mona Passage in its route from France to the Panama Canal.\n\nOn September 12, 1997, the EPB published a series of quotes attributed to Pedro Albizu Campos discussing a variety of topics, from the Autonomic Charter of 1897 granting Puerto Rico membership in the International Postal Union and its own currency to the suplantation of historic figures and events in public schools. Most of the article focuses on Albizu's belief that Puerto Rico was in a de facto path towards independence when invades in 1898, the need for armed revolution and his assessment that statehood would only be possible with an anglosaxon culture.\n\nOn June 26, 1996, the EPB addressed the participants of the American Conference of Governors during a reunion held at Puerto Rico and discussed the local culture and the genetic composition of its people, drawing a direct comparison between it and other Latin American countries. Citing several other cultural elements, the organization concluded that these would never be in line with those of the United States, including a proper flag and hymn. The Macheteros discussed the Spanish, Taíno and African influences present in local folklore and language, which in their perception were irreconcilable with those of the United States. Discussing the presence of \"deep Latin American roots\", the EPB concludes that the grey kingbird, a small bird known to attack large birds of prey including the bald eagle, is a symbol of Puerto Rican represents a reflection of the unwillingness to assimilate.\n\nOn April 1, 1998, the EPB published a press release claiming responsibility for an attack on a facility housing machinery and equipment being used to build the Superaqueduct, one of the Roselló administration's flagship projects. The organization informed that two of its Special Military Units, identified by the names \"Manolo el Leñero\" and \"Francisco Pachín Marín\", infiltrated the locale during the previous night. The EPB cited that the government had been working on the project during nighttime, despite the existence of a case in the Appellation Circuit emitted an opinion stating that it lacked proper permits from several agencies including the Department of Natural Resources and that it violated zoning and construction laws, as the justification for their actions. Referring to the Roselló administration as a \"political mafia\", the organization stated that the government acted \"in a dictatorial manner\" by \"disrespecting the Puerto Rican courts, with no hesitance\" and \"ignoring the positive and economic alternatives proposed by legitimate defenders of the environment [...] to satisfy the economic interests of private developers.\" The EPB further argued that the large investment in this and other projects \"would end in the pockets of corrupt\" individuals, predicting that a portion of it would be used to fund the PNP's political campaign and its lobbyists in Washington. The organization made argued that the environmental damage to the central region and Lago Dos Bocas would be irreparable, also criticizing that the water was only being redirected to the metropolitan area. The group cited local scientists opposed to the Superaqueduct by stating that the effect would also affect Río Grande estuary and the natural reserve of Caño Tiburones in Arecibo, besides offering a subpar quality of water that could endanger the public health. The EPB also expressed concern in the competentcy of those manning the machinery, claiming that it could endanger the safety of children, concluding that these actions formed part of an initiative of \"policy of National Salvation\" that intended to protect sectors of the general public and workers of entities that the Roselló administration intended to privatize, such as the Puerto Rico Telephone Company. \"Los Macheteros\" claimed responsibility for an explosion at a small power station in the San Juan metropolitan area. The explosion caused limited power outages.\n\nIn the November–December 1999 edition of \"El Machete\", the EPB addressed the momentum gained by the recent Vieques Navy protests, recapitulating that the independence movement had opposed the presence of the military on that island since the original residents were evicted during the 1940s. The organization then accused all politicians of the subsequent PPD/PNP administration of suffering what they called \"USMAIL syndrome\", a willingness to cooperate with any military interest of the United States and helping the federal government prosecute those that interfered with their practices in Vieques. The group reaffirmed their belief that Rodríguez Cristóbal was tortured and murdered while in federal custody and stated that the Navy had \"lied [and] manipulated\" the public to justify their operations, failing to fulfill a promise to \"economically develop the island and its population, to eliminate unemployment, [...] keep the island fee of environmental damage, [...] to keep military practices at a minimum [and] return any terrain demes unnecessary.\" The EPB expressed that they perceived that not only were neither of these fulfilled, but that the situation in Vieques had worsened since the arrival of the military, comparing it to the treatment that the federal government gave to Native Americans. Despite considering the protests an unitary event, the organization questioned if the appearance of some PNP/PPD politicians was intended to attract votes and mentioned a counter measure adopted by congressmen Inhofe and Warner, where Roosevelt Roads Base would be closed if the Navy was expelled from Vieques, as an attempt to dissuade the public. The EPB disregarded this campaign, citing that it was employing \"backstreet psychological techniques\" and underestimating the intelligence of Puerto Ricans, predicting that it would fail and warning that if the Navy continued to conduct live ammo drills in Vieques, they would respond \"According to the rules of military struggles. Selecting the right scenery and action.\" The group also citicsized representative Edwin Mundo's defense of the Navy, as well as his relationship with ex-pat Raúl Alarcón, whom they blame of sabotaging the career of independentist artists such as Danny Rivera in the United States.\n\nOn July 25, 2000, the EPB published a message discussing the 102th anniversary of the Navy's invasion during the Spanish–American War. The organization remembered that after annexing Puerto Rico, the United States began an Americanization campaign that led to changes in the official language from Spanish to English and the name \"Porto Rico\" being adopted for the archipelago. By remembering expressions made by congressmen during this timeframe describing Puerto Ricans as \"ignorant and undeveloped natives\", the EPB quoted that an attempt made by Eugenio María de Hostos to regulate an independence referendum was ignored by the United States, who instead declared Puerto Rico an unincorporated territory. Calling the policies and institutions established during the following decades as \"cultural genocide\" and \"a violation of fundamental human and civil rights\", the organization insisted that the American rule was marked with the \"creation of divisions\" and propagation of \"servile\" groups such as the statehood movement and status quo supporters in positions of power. This, in their view, as an attempt to manipulate the economy in their benefit and to supply a constant military force \"by directing hundreds of Puerto Rican men and women [to service] thanks to poverty\". The EPB argued that \"any kind of struggle, with the exception of actual terrorism, is more than justified\", citing India and the civil rights movement as an example of a type of civilian disobedience that was particularly relevant. The organization then clarified that its inactivity on the matter was a product of \"being alert [and] keeping [its] guard high\", while patiently observing \"with a lack of trust\" if the pacific strategies being employed in Vieques worked out, but not discarding \"revolutionary actions\" if otherwise. On the same date, the Macheteros held a homage to the victims of the Cerro Maravilla murders as well as other historical figures by celebrating the \"Day of the Martyrs\". In citing an ongoing \"psychological warfare [that promotes] division, insecurity, conformism and individualism\", the organization argued that this were manifesting itself in attempts to weaken the morale of the Vieques protests.\n\nOn August 30, 2000, the EPB sent a letter to the United States Congress citing previous attempt at communication and questioning if a lack of response was motivated by the legislators being more willing to satisfy traditional politicians in exchange for benefits. The organization then accused the territorial politics of the United States of perpetuating a crime against humanity by letting Puerto Rico carry with the negative consequences of the status quo. The Macheteros denied that they were motivated by hatred or a spirit of revenge, claiming that such a portrayal in the media and other outlets was an attempt to manipulate the public and international community (Latin America in particular) led by the FBI and the Navy, who publicly referred to the organization as \"terrorists\", self-describing themselves as lovers of peace that acted against a lack of justice and equality. The EPB also cited its beliefs that the current generation of American politicians had moved away from the founding fathers and adopted expansionist politics. The organization called the Vieques protests a response to the political divisions promoted by these politics and cited it as an opportunity for Congress to change them. Citing that despite being a pacific people, Puerto Ricans are known to fight for what they perceive as fair, the EPB warned that their actions would continue and this was not meant as a threat, but rather a response. The Macheteros then argued that invading and annexing Puerto Rico as part of the Spanish–American War constituted a violation of international law since the autonomy granted in 1897 placed it en route to become a separate entity. The EPB also expressed that the influence of the United States prevent the actions of other UN members. The organization then recapitulated several events, including the campaigns of Albizu, the Blair house incident and the Congress shooting, and their own actions, discussing them as responses to the perpetuation of the status quo. Additionally, the group condemned the militarization of the archipelago and the unsanctioned medical experimentation with the population. The examples given included the devaluation of the Puerto Rican dollar, the imposition of the Jones Act, the illegal experiments with cancer cells by Cornelius Rhodes, the addition of pesticides to the water supply in an attempt to kill the Aedes aegypti mosquito, the testing of anticonceptive drugs on the unsuspecting public by Enovid, military tests with Agent Orange, a number of massacres in confrontations between the public and Congress appointed governors, the acquisition of Vieques and Culebra by the Navy, intelligence efforts to monitor and arrest independence supporters and the general public, a covert cocaine plantation with the intention of testing different methods to exterminate the plant and a program that intended to examine the effects of radiation on the local flora and fauna by the Atomic Energy Commission. Concluding with a call to pursue justice or face the consequences.\n\nOn the birthday of Albizu, the Macheteros issued a message discussing the approach of other pro-independence organizations that had moved away from armed resistance. The EPB considered those that had done so as having abandoned the ideals of Albizu and Betances, instead adopting a \"defeated and conformist approach\" in the face of the challenge involved in securing independence for Puerto Rico. Accepting that \"violence is not something that should be accepted by anyone sane\", the organization insisted that they were not the source of violence and were instead responding to it. The EPB argued that most of the public had been \"conditioned to accept the \"pacific route\" towards liberty and independence\", citing it as an inefficient and dilatory method that would lead to the \"suicide and self-destruction\" of Puerto Rican identity. The organization expressed that all of the political structure and the format of the general elections was created by the United States, citing skepticism that independence could win under such circumstances. Citing that inaction resulted in an exacerbation of social, eviromental and economic problems emerging from the status quo, the EPB justified its use of violence as a means \"for self preservation\". On September 23, 2000, the EPB celebrated Lares as the moment that illustrated the birth of Puerto Rico as a nation. The organization also held an introspection where it questioned why the independence movement was segregated into several factions and speculated that it was the system's fault, since \"it promotes individualism over collectivity\", arguing that this is the reason why the federal government continues to vigorously promote it. The EPB then listed Vieques as an example of a weakening of this tendency and an example of the independence movement converging around a cause without pursuing protagonism. The organization interpreted approaches made by the Navy involving the devolution and decontamination of terrains as a distraction to divide the protestors and sign that there \"was fear in Washington\", accusing Rosselló and legislators such as Mundo and Parga of facilitating this strategy. The Macheteros also praised the manner in which the religious movements and the PIP handled the situation, despite acknowledging philosophical differences with the latter.\n\nThe following month, the EPB discussed that after its latest message, the organization meditates about its decision to reorganize in 1990. After discussing the significance of September 23 to the philosophies of Betances, Albizu and Correrjer, the group discussed the interventions against the independence movement and claimed that the general public was \"being manipulated\" to facilitate the success of those that opposes that ideal. The organization also expressed its belief that the current system was one where \"the corruption of power was an integral part\" and blamed the CIA, FBI, secret service and naval forces for perpetuating it in what they called \"an strategy to appropriate\" Puerto Rico by \"controlling its economy, destroying Puerto Rican culture, [...] promoting divisions [...] and institutionalizing a colonial administrative, judicial and politic system.\" As examples, the EPB once again mentioned the devaluation of the Puerto Rican dollar, the post-invasion Americanization process and the imposition of a military government and the political \"intimidation and bribing\" among others. The organization reaffirmed its belief that the general elections were inconsequential and held to convince the public that their concerns were being noticed and that September 23 should only serve to rememorate the insurrection with no connection to political parties or ambitions.\n\nOn January 1, 2001, the EPB addressed the issue of the Puerto Rican citizenship while several political groups were involved in a debate concerning its validity. The organization expressed its stance that citizenship should not become the central issue of the independence movement, further discussing that the territorial system in Puerto Rico has \"very particular characteristics\" which protects what they consider an anthitesis of \"capitalistic democracy and individual liberty\" by employing wealthy strategists and ideologists. The group expresses concern that by accepting the request to renounce the United States citizenship that several of those receiving a certificate of Puerto Rican citizenship (in particular the group Pro-Patria led by Fufi Santori) demanded, the strategy could backfire and \"portray the system as inherently humanitarian\". The Macheteros instead supported attending the status issue to attain independence and the dealing with the citizenship.\n\nIn the July 2001 edition of \"El Machete\" the EPB published a chronology of the involvement of the religious sector and the diverse independentist organizations in the protests at Vieques, emphasizing that they had kept their word by avoiding any kind of revolutionary acts while the peaceful civil disobedience was ongoing. The organization then mentioned the tools that they felt the government could employ against them, led by the laws and the justice system, law enforcement and other agencies, \"economic influence and brides\", the influence of politicians and complemented by Cuban exile \"counterevolutionaries in service of the CIA [...] and their Miami-based media\". The group criticized the actions of Rosselló when dealing with the Navy, claiming that he placed the final action in the hand of the armed forces while accusing newly elected governor Sila Calderón of using the topic to her advantage but backtracking after ascending to power. The EPB concluded by stating that they would employ this time period to prepare, fortify and consolidate their operations, avoiding \"the provocations of the Navy\". In other sections, the organization published an homage to the women involved in the protests. The group also recognized that Norma Burgos remained involved in the protests despite ideological differences, but criticized the actions of Miriam Ramírez de Ferrer, Jorge Santini, Kenneth McClintock and Edison Misla Aldarondo in support of the Navy.\n\nOn September 23, 2001, the EPB opened its speech by discussing the role of the descendants of the \"criollo\" class in founding the political parties under the United States administration and preserving the status quo. After completing the usual recapitulation of the historical intervention by the United States and the Vieques protests, the message digressed towards the 9/11 attacks calling the event \"inhumane\" and \"barbaric\", citing that \"under no pretense the Macheteros can accept, and much less justify acts of this nature\". Citing that \"revolutionaries are moved by a love for humanity\", the organization expressed condolences both to the families of fallen Puerto Ricans and the innocent American public.\" The EPB, however, expressed that there were similarities between these attacks and the actions \"taken by the government of the United States throughout the world\" mentioning the death of civilians in Vietnam, Serbia, Yugolslavia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Bosnia, Croatia, Nagasaki, Hiroshima and Iraq as example where military intervention resulted in heavy casualties. Shifting its focus to Latin America, the organization discussed the invasions of Panama and the Dominican Republic and its support of Fulgencio Batista, Rafael Trujillo, Efraín Ríos Montt, Alfredo Stroessner, Anastasio Somoza García, Marcos Pérez Jiménez and Augusto Pinochet as equally unforgivable and done \"to satisfy lust of economic power of some infamous minorities\". Citing the Ponce massacre as another example, the EPB criticized that local sectors echo their classification as a terrorist organization by the FBI, in their view to \"justify open repression\" in an effort \"to change public opinion\" in Puerto Rico. The EPB blamed the Calderón administration for \"seeking away to distance [itself] from the [...] Vieques problem\", also expressing concern that the attacks could be employed to guarantee the permanence of the Navy in Vieques.\n\nOn the November 2001 edition of \"El Machete\", the EPB published an editorial claiming that following 9/11 the federal government had taken advantage of the situation to eliminate several civil rights through the Patriot Act. The organization stated that this move granted \"plenipotentiary powers to fascist militarists\" to freely intervene with those that oppose their politics. The Macheteros anticipated that these measures would be employed against them and that the CIA would employ the recent events to recruit in universities by exploiting the fear of terrorism in the general population and decided to preemptively issue messages of their own in these institutions. The EPB explained that they expected \"state terrorism\", since in their view the military had been given the power to be de facto rulers of the United States with this law. The organization also reproduced several third party articles detailing the CIA's budget and strategies. In 2002, Ojeda Ríos was interviewed by journalist José Elías Torres citing expectations of a possible fusion between the Congreso Nacional Hostosiano con and the Nuevo Movimiento Independentista, citing as an example to follow for other non-partisan independentist organizations.\n\nOn April 28, 2004, a missive signed by Ojeda Ríos was sent to the \"El Díario\" newspaper, where he expressed that the EPB opposed the proposed establishment of a permanent Free Trade Area of the Americas homebase in San Juan. Offering a brief summary of the organization's ideology, he cited that these beliefs contrasted with the policies of the FTAA, which they considered an initiative controlled by the interests of the United States. Ojeda Ríos also expressed his stance that the establishment of this homebase in San Juan would \"represent support for the colonial condition of Puerto Rico; as another invasion by the United States\" and argued that there was no need to exacerbate the issue.\n\nIn September 2004, while being interviewed about an anthology of the independence movement on radio Juan Mari Brás made a public request to Ojeda Ríos to detail the EPB's ideology for that project. The requested information was received shortly afterwards and published in \"Claridad\". The article begins by quoting Frantz Fanon's \"The Wretched of the Earth\" \"the colonized are cured of colonial neurosis by driving the colonist out by force\", citing the ambient of the populace after the destruction of airplanes in Muñiz airbase as an example of this, remembering a general feeling of \"pride and hope\" in the populace. Ojeda Ríos then establishes a dichotomy between the reactionary violence of colonialism and revolutionary actions, saying that the first was imposed on Puerto Ricans and created divisions that could potentially lead to a Civil War. He then discussed that the EPB believes that the right for self-determination and independence established in Resolution 1514 (XV) grants \"moral and legal strength\" to their actions. Ojeda Ríos further cites the provisions of Resolution 2105 (XX) inviting UN members to cooperate with armed resistance in colonies, the assessment provided in Resolution 2326 that repression of armed movements is \"incompatible with the parameters of Resolution 1514\" and Resolution 2621 (XXV) that declares ongoing colonialism a crime \"against the principles of international law\" as supporting his stance. He concludes by stating that the violence employed by the EPB \"is not aggressive, but defensive\". Ojeda Ríos also quoted Fanon's assertion that the \"colonist makes history\", noting the existence of two coexisting and conflicting accounts of Puerto Rican history and establishing a parallel with the revolutionary history in the rest of Latin America and the Caribbean in particular by mentioning the involvement of Antonio Valero de Bernabé and María Mercedes in Simon Bolivar's campaign. He cites the 1811 San Germán conspiracy, an independentist uprising planned by members of the Regimiento de Granada Andrés Salvador and Juan Vizcarrondo Ortiz de Zárate in 1838 and the actions of bishop Juan Alejo de Arizmendi and politician Ramón Power y Giralt as events that build the Cry of Lares and as part of an \"ignored history\". Ojeda also established a contrast between Betances and Luis Muñoz Rivera, calling the latter an \"opportunist\" that promoted a reform of the Spanish colonial system, calling Albizu the spiritual successor of the former for his criticism of autonomists that pursue an expansion of faculties under the territorial clause. He calls Corretjer the next link in the chain and laments that the initiatives of independentists that were part of the Muñoz Marín administration were attributed to the governor \"for the benefit of the North American government\". Ojeda Ríos reiterated his posture against participating in general elections and rebutted an argument recently published where countries like Mexico, Brasil, Argentina and Chile were essentially neocolonies, citing that they merely responded to their historical realities and were still capable to employ these alliances according to their own interests despite the influence of the United States. Ojeda Ríos concluded noting that EPB members held civilian jobs and acted covertly, resulting in the presence of Macheteros in any place and any government agency, noting that at the moment their strategy was not one of frontal assault but of armed propaganda, through which actions were focused on targets that could gather the attention and support of the public. He insisted that this was resulting in a covert support that would allow a progression towards other strategies, while avoiding actions against them. Ojeda Ríos closed this letter by contrasting the actions of the EPB to terrorist tactics, citing the ongoing war in the Middle East, the Holocaust and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as examples of an unacceptable terrorism that had \"no space\" within the organization's philosophy. One that he described as based on the principles of \"equality\" and \"social justice\".\n\nOn November 26, 2004, Ojeda Ríos issued a post-election statement and after classifying the process as one that arises from \"illusions\" that promote \"division\", diverted his attention to a series of editorials published by \"Claridad\" analyzing the political environment of Puerto Rico, in particular one published during the first week of November where the newspaper stated its availability to all sectors within the movement. He argued against the individualization of the independence movement, citing that years of epithets and personalisms in the independentist speech had not advanced the cause. To control any damage caused by these, Ojeda Ríos proposed that the debates between factions should be held in private, allowing a dispassionate and conciliatory approach to the solution of these problems. He clarified that the EPB did believe in organizing general elections, but only when \"regulated by strict democratic rules\", which they don't perceive in the events held under the territorial clause. Ojeda Ríos also opposed participating in a democracy that supports military incursions in independent states. He proposed the \"harmonization\" of al sectors within the movement and requested that despite their own philosophical differences, other organizations should avoid trying to gain status by seeking to supplant the PIP.\n\nWhen the organization became aware that a certain person wanted to hold a reunion with Ojeda Ríos, they would discuss and analize it before approving the meeting, with the Commander issuing a report of the topics discussed afterwards. According to the briefing that followed his reunion with bishop González Nieves, it was established that the religious leader tried to convince him to move away from armed conflict and to abandon clandestine activities. However, Ojeda Ríos responded by replying that, despite respecting the motives behind these suggestions, he declined. He extended an offer of his own to the bishop to join the efforts of the EPB, which was turned down as well.\n\nOn April 8, 2005, the EPB voiced a message in honor of Ramón Emeterio Betances as part of the commemoration of his birthday. After opening with one of the physicians quotes \"what are Puerto Rican doing that they don't rebel?\", Ojeda Ríos continued his message by reading a letter directed to the 19th century independentist leader. In it he questioned why those that followed the armed ideology were now criticized by other factions of the independence movement as \"archaic\", condemning them for seeking alliances with those that he held responsible for the \"maladies that affect\" Puerto Rico. Ojeda Ríos claimed that these organizations utilized the media to promote a \"message of confusion, by exposing a concept of condescending struggle\", which led the public down \"auto-destructive paths\" by postponing a resolution for decades. After suggesting that these entities promoted a message which meant \"no sacrifice or danger to them\", he concluded that they only cited previous independentists leaders to \"further their ideas and interests\".\n\nIn August 2005, journalist José Elías of WPAB hosted Ojeda Ríos for an interview. He cited a number of events that in his view signaled the weakening of capitalism, including the possibility of an energy crisis caused by the management of petroleum, leading him to speculate that the latest intervention in Iraq was motivated by this. Ojeda Ríos observed that capitalism was losing its flexibility and that the International Monetary Fund could no longer benefit from extending loans to Latin American countries since the consequent debt now prevented them from paying in full any longer, also citing that the actions of Hugo Chávez were influencing a change in the dynamic. He lamented that due to the status issue any problem faced by the United States was exponentially worse in Puerto Rico and warned that a serious economic crisis was impending and that there were no obvious solutions in sight, save for independence. Ojeda Ríos argued that a raise in criminality and the costs of basic necessities would be seen, blaming the legislature for granting tax exemptions to oil importers but not the public. Ojeda Ríos assumed that this incoming crisis would convince the populace that self-determination was unavoidable, resulting in a massification of the ideal and forcing a pre-revolutionary state, but also recognized that planificatiom would be required to \"reconstruct\" Puerto Rico if independence was reached and that this would take some time and possible sacrifices. He also criticized what he perceived as an inferiority complex imparted by the education system, which he called \"a psychological dynamic program [of] the government of the United States\", which promotes the belief that Puerto Rico could not sustain itself without foreign intervention, which he expressed must be overcomed during this process. Ojeda Ríos included this as only one aspect of the \"devalorization of Puerto Ricans\" by the United States, which also included manipulation of the official history, recognizing the work of José Ferrer Canales, Félix Ojeda, Estrade and other historians that publish work that defies the postures of the government and popularized events like the Ponce Massacre. Moving on to other independentists organizations, he argued against reformism within the movement, citing that it had been prevalent since the times of Betances. Ojeda Ríos also expressed some disappointment in the direction taken after the fusion of the MIHN, citing that he expected it to follow the populist example of the Movimiento Pro Independencia, instead of the open cooperation with the PPD, which he perceived as an error that arose from good faith. He discussed how this tendency has caused a rift within the independence movement, which endangered the presence of some organization in the commemoration of the Grito de Lares Lares, a division that the EPB opposed and considered counterproductive. Ojeda Ríos, however, questioned why this sort of confrontation could happen but the PIP did not provide a consistent opposition to the PPD in the legislature. Despite these postures, he expressed respect to the recently deceased PPD mayor of Ponce Rafael Cordero and questioned if the lack of progress in his signature project was because it did not benefit the government of the United States.\n\nElías also discussed the three different strategies seen within the independence movement, electoral participation, civil mobilization and clandestine struggle. Ojeda Ríos reaffirmed his stance that independence would not be achieved in elections, but conceded that things beneficial to it could be, suggesting that the electoral opposition needed to \"radicalize\" its opposition and asking Rúben Berrios to discuss his differences with other organizations within the independence movement. On the other hand, he expressed that the civil society was progressing slowly due to a lack of leadership and coherence. Ojeda Ríos justified the vigency of armed resistance, also distancing itself from terrorism, dictatorship or coups. He also discussed his close friendship with Rafael Cancel Miranda and confided that the EPB had been covertly publishing documents about armed resistance that in his view were gathering this tactic support from the public. When questioned by Elías about the reason behind the move from a mostly paramilitary strategy to also include activism, Ojeda Ríos quoted that several other armed organizations had spent prolonged periods in preparation before stricking, citing 15 years of inactivity by the zapatistas while it gathered the support of Amerindian groups, the initial movements in Vietnam during the 1930s and the organization of the French Revolution as examples. Ojeda Ríos gave his opinion of then-Resident Commissioner Luis Fortuño to this journalist, labeling him as \"a person with no dignity\", \"who is totally submitted to the will of the United States government\" and \"does not make decisions that favor the people\". He concluded by stating that future political aspirations by the functionary would be \"a calamity\" and that \"having Fortuño as a governor would be a disaster [for Puerto Rico]\".\n\nOjeda Ríos also discussed international politics, in particular the involvement of local politicians with the Dominican Republic–Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR), nothing the peculiarity that Resident Commissioner Luis Fortuño and Eduardo Bathia supported the initiative. After citing that the former supported recent criticism issued by Condolezza Rice against Venezuela, he argued that the treaty only \"granted more control\" to the United States over the other parts and represented a threat to Puerto Rico, since production costs in these countries were lower and could trigger a migration of enterprises. Ojeda Ríos also expressed that despite openly supporting Puerto Rican independence, Castro and Chavéz had avoided adopting radical measures on the matter, arguing that they were most likely being cautious since their involvement in local affair at could justify military intervention by the United States. When discussing the ongoing war in Iraq, he called it \"part of a geopolitical strategy for the Middle East\" and claimed that it served economic interests, calling it \"the most abusive war\" since Vietnam. Ojeda Ríos expressed opposition to the military recruitment of students in high schools and lamented the participation of Puerto Ricans in this war. He also supported the anti-war activism of Cindy Sheehan and Sonia Santiago. When discussing the evolution of the war on terrorism, Ojeda Ríos once again cited several acts done by the United States military locally, in Abu Rahub, Guantanamo, Japan and Vietnam as examples of \"state terrorism\" and criticized CNN for publishing live feeds of the bombings in Iraq \"without regard\" for those that died as collateral damage.\n\nOn September 12, 2005, the EPB's commemorative message focused in a 1930 call made by Albizu to \"all the Puerto Rican Nation\" to celebrate the anniversary each year. The organization expressed that this message was directed to the general public instead of political parties and leaders. After asserting that insularism had been taught and institutionalized for over a century, the EPB argued that Lares could serve to \"help them understand their reality, our reality, and to establish links with organized patriotism.\" The organization then concluded that regardless of their actions, \"Lares also belongs to them\" and \"[they] must be invited.\" The EPB then criticized the \"those leaders of the fatherland that mistakenly put the particular interests of their organization [or] personal ones over the patriotic ideal\", stating that \"[t]hose that deploy lines that destruct the unity, will also unleash the invisible forces of their own margination.\" The organization concluded by issuing an invitation to commemorate those fallen in Lares.\n\nOn September 23, 2005, the anniversary of \"el Grito de Lares\" (\"The Cry of Lares\") members of the FBI San Juan field office surrounded a modest home in the outskirts of the town of Hormigueros, Puerto Rico, where Ojeda Ríos was believed to be living in. The FBI claims that it was performing surveillance of the area because of reports that Ojeda Ríos had been seen in the home. In their press release, the FBI stated their surveillance team was detected, and proceeded to serving an arrest warrant against Ojeda Ríos. The FBI claims that as the agents approached the home, shots were fired from inside and outside the house wounding an FBI agent. The FBI alleges it then returned fire fatally wounding Ojeda Ríos.\n\nMeanwhile, a message recorded by Ojeda Ríos was played at the commemoration of the Cry of Lares. In it he rememorated the creation of the Junta Republicana de Cuba y Puerto Rico, which was established in a reunion held at New York and which served to plan this event and its counterpart, the Cry of Yara. Tracing the origin of the local independence movement to several events that preceded this insurrection, Ojeda Ríos discussed the various individuals that had led the armed organizations throughout history, while also noting simulates in the working eviroment of the 1860s and the 1950s. He later discussed the existence of reformists within the independence movement, citing that they unwittingly \"helped consolidate the current colonial status\" citing a then-independentist Luis Muñoz Marín as the leader of this movement. Ojeda Ríos also cited his belief that the establishment of the Commonwealth had \"served to provide an illegitimate and false consent\" to the territorial status, which he describes as resulting in the elimination of agricultural production, displacement of local businesses by large corporations and the application of obligatory service that served to serve both large scale wars and secondary interventions throughout Latin America. Directing his focus to the independence movement, he recognized the strategic differences between organizations but insisted that they should not be allowed to divide them, suggesting that a Constituent Assembly would be held to solve them once independence was achieved. Ojeda Ríos requested that those that choose to pursue an electoral alternative should employ the legislature to advance their cause and avoid diverting from this goal. He labelled the anti-war activities of Santiago and a campaign led by Marta Villaizán and Aleida Centeno denouncing the privatization and experimentation of local natural resources as examples to follow for the civil society and called attention towards the moves of the federal government in El Yunque and the intervention of Fortuño and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in this process. Ojeda Ríos closed his intervention by citing what he perceived as movements being made by Venezuela and Cuba to consolidate Latin American and the Caribbean and acclaimed independentist and Latin American unity.\n\nA subsequent autopsy of Ojeda's body determined that he bled to death over the course of 15 to 30 minutes. The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Civil Rights Commission started an investigation of the incident shortly after Ojeda Rios' death that lasted 7 years. The 227-page report issued on 22 September 2011 stated that Ojeda Rios's killing was \"an illegal killing\" by the FBI.\n\nFollowing the confrontation that concluded in the death of its former leader, the command of the Boricua Popular Army was inherited by an anonymous figure known as \"Comandante Guasábara\", named after the Taíno word for \"war\". Under his leadership, the group appears to have shifted its focus towards intelligence. For example, the group has not recorded a single military action. Instead, Guasábara has generally used the media to publish classified information. Under Guasábara, the \"Macheteros\" took an emphasis on publishing pieces regarding the use of Culebra and Vieques as bombing targets for the U.S. Navy; what they perceive as a disproportionate number of military bases on the island (compared to states in the Union); the proportion of deaths within the ranks of the Independence and Nationalist leadership, including the alleged experimentation with radiation on Nationalist leader Pedro Albizu Campos while he was incarcerated; the secret testing of Agent Orange on Puerto Rican soil; and cancer \"experiments\" administered by Cornelius P. Rhoads, in which he claimed to have killed Puerto Rican patients and injected cancer cells to others, while working as part of a medical investigation conducted in San Juan's Presbyterian Hospital for the Rockefeller Institute.\n\nIn February 2006, the EPB published a press release where it accused the FBI of launching a \"cruel campaign [based on] monitoring, harassing and repressing\" unions and independentist, religious, eviromentalist and similar organizations. The group then responded to a statement released by the FBI where they were classified as an entity that was endangering \"the interests of the general population\" by stating that throughout 30 years they \"never targeted the general public\", instead focusing on government targets. The group then states that they \"condemn\" the tactics of the FBI and expressed support to the people involved in protests against the agency since September 23, 2005. The EPB urged the public to respond by exposing the buildings and vehicles used by the FBI and by protesting in the methods available. The organization also informed that the results of their own investigation on the death of Ojeda Ríos was pending. The EPB concluded by stating that nobody is \"obligated to respond to their questions\" and urging the general public to avoid cooperating with the agency.\n\nOn April 4, 2006, a letter authored by Camacho was read before an audience gathered in protest before the federal prison in Guaynabo. In it the former director of the EPB questions why he was jailed again, wondering if it was for \"violating some colonial conditions\", noting that he had been freely roaming for two years with no consequence. Camacho cites two reasons for his arrest, the first being that a congressional commission had been proposed to investigate the death of Ojeda Ríos and an separate incident involving the local press, assuming that he was detained to prevent him from testifying before this commission and relay information that he received about the FBI's operations in Puerto Rico. The second was to stop the momentum that the Consejo Nacional para la Descolonización was gaining in his view, claiming that this entity represented an obstacle to the free association movement which in his opinion seemed to \"prolong colonialism\" by retaining a collaboration with the United States.\n\nOn September 12, 2006, the EPB addressed several historical events that took place during this month, both locally such as the Grito de Lares and the birth of Albizu and internationally by quoting the process that began the independence of Chile and Mexico in 1810. The communique then shifted its focus to events that in their view were negative, including the establishment of a Palestinian Jewish settlement in 1921, the 1973 Chilean coup d'état and 9/11 and its repercussions including the Patriot Act. The EPB responsibilized Albizu for popularizing the Cry of Lares after it was \"stricken from official history\" and establishing the municipality as the \"Altar of the Motherland\", beginning a tradition that includes a yearly pilgrimage there on the anniversary of the event. The EPB closed this communiqué by remembering that the last public message offered by Ojeda Ríos urged the entire independence movement to attend the ceremony.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, the EPB issued a statement congratulating the Nueva Escuela group for their proselytizing work that first started in June 2005, citing that its results were being seen. The organization also states that despite the monitoring of the FBI, police and other agencies, they were still developing clandestine forces. On September 23, 2007, the EPB offered a message where it expressed that the only way to \"develop the economy of Puerto Rico to its full potential\", guarantee \"secure and well paid jobs\" for the working class and an \"education system that really produces educated people\" was to take control away from the United States, citing a moral debt to Ojeda Ríos. The organization criticized the health system's dependency on insurance companies and the idea that the United States would unilaterally grant independence, arguing that operating in a frame that fell outside their comfort zone was the path to follow. The EPB then claimed that a series of robberies and attacks against independentist figures including Rafael Cancel Miranda were attempts to intimidate the movement by \"those that control the system\". The organization also distanced themselves from a man that called the police superintendent, airport and the mail offices and self-identified as a Machetero, citing that they are a \"revolutionary organization and not terrorists like the FBI\", citing that \"attempts to discredit [them] would not result in desperate actions\" and that they would continue with the usual methodical approach. The EPB also expresses it support for worker's unions and opposed the privatization of places of sociocultural interest and recreation, watersources and beaches, as well as deforestation and expropriation. The organization warned that a recent influx of FBI agents could have the independence movement as a target and requested cooperation from its counterparts, despite strategic and philosophical differences.\n\nOn September 12, 2009, the EPB commemorated the birthday of Albizu. Noting that he died after being jailed, the organization insisted that justice was not yet made, expressing chagrin at the idea that some of the responsible were now regarded as historically influential people. The EBP then drew a parallel between the death of Albizu and Ojeda Ríos, accusing the local and federal authorities of complicity, as well as some pro-independence organization ms due to their silence on the matter. The group closed by claiming that the General Inspector's report tried to blame Ojeda Ríos for the actions of a FBI squad that \"wanted to eliminate the real representative of armed resistance [in Puerto Rico]\" and compared it to the actions taken during the Romero Barceló administration in regards to the Cerro Maravilla murders, and expressed disbelief that despite cooperating with the federal agencies the local government, most notably the Police of Puerto Rico, concluded that the scene was not tampered when they only saw photographic evidence provided by the FBI. Noting that the Civil Rights Commission investigating the case questioned if the scene was tampered, the organization lamented that the report concluded that no criminal charges could be presented against the federal agent identified as \"Brian\" or any of the other involved.\n\nOn September 23, 2009, the paramilitary EBP joined the political branch of the Macheteros, the Partido Revolucionario de los Trabajadores Puertorriqueños, in an event named \"Vigilia por la Dignidad\" held at Hormigueros, Puerto Rico, in honor of Ojeda Ríos. There both groups agreed that they would promote an agenda of unity with other sectors of society to confront what they perceived as \"a fascist repression\" being imposed by the government and manipulated by \"[foreign interests] that control large amounts of capital\". The EPB and PRTP stated that Fortuño represented the \"lords of capital\" and that his administration was surrendering control of the government and justice system to these interests. The organizations argued that finality was economic gain at the expense of the public and that they employed open class warfare against it, approving laws without feedback and enforcing other measures. The EBP and PRTP concluded this communiqué by suggesting that public manifestations, armed resistance and independentist unity would be required to counteract the administration. In a different topic, the EPB provided an extended critique of the Puerto Rican statehood movement. In denoting what they believe is the \"true face of anexionism\", referring to right-wing Republicans such as Fortuño, Rivera Schatz and Jennifer González, the group quoted Ojeda Ríos opinion of the newly elected governor. The EPB argued that those wealthy interests pushed Fortuño by exploiting modern propaganda methods, such as the internet and media, and that the federal government \"employed its creativity\" to ensure his election by indicting the former governor after the political campaign had begun. The organization interpreted this as a showcase of the \"power of transnational corporation to manipulate the economic and political\" system, and argued that the austerity measures were part of a plan to satisfy the bond-holders, multinationals, developers and businessmen and \"to present statehood as the only solution\" to an \"intentionally exacerbated crisis\". The EBP also criticized unions for their perceived \"dispersion\", \"lack of ideological definition\" and \"unwilliness to radicalize their struggle\", asking them to seek coordinated efforts that entice \"the evolution of revolutionary postures within the middle class and the public in general\". The organization then urged other independentist groups to cease cooperating with other entities that \"seek sovereignty but not independence\", in particular with the free association movement, and to pursue unity to face the \"militaristic\" and \"repressive\" actions of an administration that \"leans towards dictatorship\".\n\nThree weeks later, both entities participated in a march against the measures of the Fortuño administration along groups that fell outside the independence movement, which interrupted the traffic in several routes and converged at Plaza Las Americas (a mall owned by the Fonalledas family, prominent members of the Puerto Rico Republican Party, to which Fortuño is affiliated). The following week the 2009 Cataño oil refinery fire began. The Macheteros felt that expressions made by government functionaries labeling protestors as \"terrorists\" and the subsequent investigation of the fire as potentially intentional were intended to link separate events and degrade the public perception of the protests. Believing that the federal government could be executing a plan to \"escalate the persecution against students (in reference to animosity between the UPR and the government which eventually led to a strike), worker unions and independentists [in general]\", the EPB warned of four possible ways in which such an approach could benefit the government; by misdirecting the attention away from the administration, by trying to create a contrast that would portray Fortuño positively, by intimidating potential protestors and by persecuting them. To justify their statement, the organization cited that immediately after the fire began, Fraticelli, Figueroa Sancha, Rodríguez Ema and Santini held a reunion where they established that \"it was a good moment to behead the dissident movements\".\n\nOn October 26, 2009, the EPB discussed what they described as an intensification in the \"offensive [launched by an alliance] between the government and employers [against] the working class of the country\", based on \"closing down work sources, the layoff of thousands of workers, government refusal to recognize the validity of collective agreements and the manipulation of the media [when discussing] the public crisis. The Macheteros reintegrated that in order to gain a convincing defeat against these entities, the only way was by confronting it directly and expressed that it was time to create an \"Unified Work Plan\" which would clearly establish which measures could be employed to solidly popular ideas and [hence] its combat capabilities. In this release, the EBP criticized the designation of José Figueroa Sancha as superintendent of the Puerto Rico Police, calling him \"a murderer sent by the federal government to promote confrontation and thus, repression\". The group expressed its belief that any power gained by this functionary would be due to a \"lack of compromise\" from the rest of the independence movement to directly confront him, urging that unity between all factions of the movement would bring a new perspective to the political environment and would represent a display of \"a patriotic will that transcends organizations\" in a fight against the \"fascism that has been instituted [by the Fortuño administration]\". Emphasizing their belief that the government was being manipulated by people from Milla de Oro (San Juan's banking hub) and Calle Chardón (an avenue where the local headquarters of most federal agencies are located) the EPB concluded this statement by warning that they would be in the \"most unexpected of places, with [their] sights set right to protect the people\".\n\nTwo months later, the EPB granted an interview to \"Claridad\", where the organization discussed its stance on several topics. The group opened by expressing that the 2009 administration change did little to the \"[preexisting] neoliberal politics of both parties\", claiming that both exploit demagogue to entice voters but that in reality they \"only serve the bourgeoisie of the United States of Puerto Rico, among which are the bankers, developers and contractors\". However, the organization did differentiate Fortuño from his predecessor, claiming that \"as a fervent servant of the Republican neoliberal capitalism\" he employed \"an strategy to downsize the government, privatize anything that is of interest to bond and capital holders and to eliminate all that is preserving the culture of the Puerto Rican nation alive\". The Macheteros expressed concern that this administration wanted to portray the wealthy as the answer to the economic crisis, \"which are really the fault of all government administrations, including Mr. Fortuño's\". The group also disregarded all measures adopted by the legislature, which in their view only responded to the economic interests of the wealthy, which they considered \"perhaps the worst of all\" and warning the PPD legislators led by Hector Ferrer that \"weak opposition [virtually turned them] into accomplices\".\n\nIn this interview the EPB reaffirmed its stance against the assignment of Figueroa Sancha to the police and denounced that none of the government appointments were consulted with the public or sectors associated with them including political and youth organizations, laboral unions and environmentalists, leading to protests and strikes. When assessing the response to these politics by the independence movement, the group admitted that they have failed as a whole, being unable to unify wills to create a synchronized plan, which they considered a priority to spread their message about issues that \"[would not] be resolved by removing Luis Fortuño with Tomás Rivera Schatz or any other PNP candidate [or by] a challenger from the PPD\", because \"election have always been manipulated to favor colonial interests as well as those of bankers and businessmen over those of the people\". Further clarifying that despite recent concessions they still believe in armed resistance and would continue the involvement in events related to the class war that they perceive is taking place in Puerto Rico, while staying distant from general elections, status plebiscites or a Constituent Assembly, unless the latter was held to create a constitution for an independent state.\n\nFurther warning against \"political cannibalism between independentists\", the Macheteros told their counterparts that it was their \"obligation to be at the forefront of every manifestation and protest\" against the Fortuño administration. After citing that their call for unity was a response to those times, the EBP expressed concern at the possibility of forcing a general strike without a tactical plan capable of replacing any protestors that may be incarcerated or killed and a list of demands. The organization also distanced itself from pro-independence organizations that have expressed their belief that more visibility in international organizations means that their goal is closer than ever before, stating that \"[they] must show [the Latin American nations that support the movement] how far [they] are willing to go\". The EBP also criticized independence supporters that cooperate with the free association movement in some converging points, since despite seeking a non-territorial resolution to the status issue the \"soberanistas\" do not pursue or believe in independence. Despite this assessment, the Macheteros called for a truce that would unite the left, citing that in the vigils organized by the PRTP and them through the \"Coordinadora Nacional de las Vigilias por la Dignidad Filiberto Ojeda Ríos\" the 23rd day of every months are attended by people from all of the independentist spectrum.\n\nThe EBP revealed that it was not surprised by the election of Barack Obama as president of the United States, expressing its belief that it came at a moment where the military industrial complex \"needed a charismatic figure to replace [George W.] Bush, whose poor public perception [and management] of the economy had endangered the system\". The organization expressed that this pattern where a staunch conservative was replaced by a conciliatory liberal had been seen in American politics throughout the second half of the 20th century, and that they did \"not expect a radical change in politics towards Latin America under Obama\". The Macheteros cited that the president backtracked his initial condemnation of the 2009 Honduran coup d'état, the proliferation of American military bases in Colombia and constant confrontations between his administration and Hugo Chávez as supporting evidence for this statement. The EBP further emphasized that the absence of concrete movements to lift the United States embargo against Cuba as a sign that Obama was \"more of the same\".\n\nDuring the following months, Jesús Dávila of NCM Noticias began circulating seven questions for the EPB. On October 12, 2010, the responses attributed to Comandante Guasábara were published by that journalist. In response to the organization's role in the political environment during that particular juncture, the Macheteros expressed that they were being \"patient and responsible\", \"hearing the complaints of the people\" and warning that \"their patience and passiveness were reaching an end\". The group claimed that they had obtained information related to government corruption and the influence of foreign interests that pressured them to act, since \"standing still with their arms crossed [would] violate their elemental [ideals] as an armed revolutionary organization\", warning that they no longer intended to \"scream slogans\" at rallies, but were instead waiting \"to strike the adequate objective at the adequate time and place\". When questioned about a draft announced by the organization some time prior to the interview, Guasábara responded by noting that \"being at war, the existence of Machetero comandos and permanent recruitment will be necessary [...] until we declare the Republic.\" The EPB described its strategy as one that evolved in three steps emerging from the rearguard; the first being the defensive as a response to the enemy's offensive, the second being a period of strategic consolidation and preparation of a counterattack plan and the third being the implementation of this plan in contrast to the government's politics.\n\nThe group expressed its belief that the faster that they accomplish independence, the faster that they can begin associating with other Latin American nations and consolidate efforts with its counterparts. Believing that the local and federal governments had \"extreme repressive and oppressive economic measures against the people\" to unprecedented levels, Guasábara warned that privatization of services would bring \"a raise in costs\" and \"meager salaries\", also citing that constitutional rights were being violated by the Fortuño administration noting that under Rivera Schatz the general public was not allowed to openly protest at the Senate of Puerto Rico. The EPB derided the government's raise of the UPR's tuition and the withdrawal of funds for cultural organizations. It also expressed support to those opposing the Via Verde project, stating that it would \"destroy the environment [and] endanger human life and property\". All of these conditions convinced the Macheteros that the conditions for a public revolt were being formed, citing that they would \"do everything in their power to convince the people that there is a need to defend themselves\". Guasábara admitted that the organization was receiving information concerning military and political strategies that the United States intended to enact in Puerto Rico and that they employ it to remain elusive and to prepare counter measures, only making a portion of it public, but refused to reveal their sources. When questioned about the possibility of reopening a line of inquiry with the Catholic Church (an initiative abandoned in 2005 after the death of Ojeda Ríos), the officer said that the EPB is open \"to chat [and] exchange ideas\", but that they would not abandon armed resistance.\n\nThree months later, the EPB issued a joint press release with the PRT and the PRTP announcing the death of one of its members, William Pintado Burgos. After emphasizing that he had joined the armed resistance from a young age as a believer in independence and socialism, the organizations proceeded to posthumously grant him the title of Commander of the Puerto Rican Revolution, which is only granted to those that are deemed to have \"stood firm and battled the motherland's enemy\". Months later, on the birthday of Ramón Emeterio Betances, the EBP joined Jornada Betances in a homage to the Puerto Rican students involved in the protests against the Fortuño administration. Remembering that September 23, 1868, is now celebrated as \"the birth of the Puerto Rican nation\", having been the date of the Cry of Lares when Betances and several other revolted against Spain and proclaimed the first Republic of Puerto Rico under Francisco Ramírez Medina, the group insisted that it was time to do the same as that day. Citing Pedro Albizu Campos's phrase \"it's difficult to give a speech while the mother is lying on bed and there is a killer prowling\", the Macheteros anthropomorphized the influence of the United States as that murderer and labeled the Via Verde project and cases of government corruption as examples of actions being taken against the motherland, urging the public to mimic the actions of Lares. Blaming Fortuño, Figueroa Sancha and Fraticelli for a violent response to the UPR strike, the EPB congratulated the students for precipitating a negotiation procedure. Despite this, the organization urged the public to continue its resistance against the measures adopted by the Fortuño administration. The Macheteros also informed that they were \"gathering strength, preparing the stage and studying\" its opponents, quoting Betances' strategy of patiently and convertly planning every revolutionary action before executing them. The group stated that public education would be defended by \"an army of students and communities\". The EBP concluded its statement by warning that \"the enemy was to be confronted with proper planning and intelligence [...] knowing when to strike\". In lobbying for an unified national front, the Macheteros insisted that to accomplish independence the only way to do it was by following the armed resistance promoted by Betances, Albizu, Corretjer and Ojeda Ríos.\n\nOn July 23, 2011, the EBP released a statement comparing the work of the now resigned Fraticelli and Figueroa Sancha to the measures adopeted by governor Blanton Winship and police chief Elisha Francis Riggs against the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party during the 1930s. After criticizing the opposition presented by the PPD to the Fortuño administration, the Macheteros declared that both the local and federal agencies had been pursuing the members of the independence movement that supported armed resistance. Emphasizing that, being unaffiliated to any political parties, the organization did not have anything that prevents them from holding press conferences at will, the group said that upon leaving his post Fraticelli listed the death of Ojeda Ríos and the arrests of the González Claudio brothers as accomplishments. The EBP then expressed their belief that the media led by \"El Nuevo Día\", \"El Vocero\" and \"Primera Hora\" gave the functionary a stage from which to justify the circumstances that led to the death of their former commander and place the blame on him. Quoting the report by the OIG, the Macheteros cited that at least six notable errors had taken place during that operation and insisted that this proved the manipulation of the media by Fraticelli. Warning that the arrests of the comrades represent an ongoing federal agenda to capture any members of the organization, which they responsibilized on a fear that there will always be armed resistance. The EBP closed this communication by blaming the media of publishing \"damage control\" to justify the actions of the police against independentists under Figueroa Sancha and warned that their armed resistance would continue to support the \"repressed\" under his leadership.\n\nThe Boricua Popular Army took credit for denouncing what was called \"paramilitary training\" that private corporation Triangle Experience Group was carrying on in the mountains of the municipality of Utuado. The media later revealed that these exercises were being done illegally, in covert fashion and lacking the required permits.\n\nOn the sixth anniversary of the death of Ojeda Ríos, the EPB held a vigil to remember him. Making a call to the masses to stop listening to a small group of leaders and advocating against political eclecticism and inter-ideological alliances, the organization urged the public to take control of the class war and employ armed resistance to accomplish independence. The group criticized those that oppose armed conflict as lacking the theoretic knowledge and being unaware of the basic structure, methodology, politic-military concepts and a scientific analysis to understand the conditions precipitated by the political status of Puerto Rico. Citing \"500 years of colonial experience\" and \"the waste of time that colonial elections have been\", the EPB stated that \"it is time to jump from the defensive to the offensive\" in order to provide stimuli to the masses. By arguing that elections \"divide the left [and pushes it] towards immovilism\", the group expressed that there was a need for an\"ideological capacitation\", remembering that Ojeda Ríos was influenced by Betances, Corretjer, Albizu Campos, CAL, ARP, MIRA, los Voluntarios, FALN and COR. When discussing their perception of a class war, the EPB listed the police, FBI, Homeland Security and the National Guard as \"repressive forces\" that they directly oppose.\n\nThe organization further cited that intelligence efforts by the United States in cooperation with the local parties had led to a system that places the individual \"as an instrument\" in service of the wealthy classes and had \"multiplied social disorder and conformism\", which is \"only [confronted by] a few exceptions\". Quoting that its attack on the Muñiz Air base had been cited as \"causing more damage [to the U.S. military] in one day than a month in Vietnam\", the EBP urged the masses to mimic the actions of Lares, the attack at Sabana Seca and the FALN attack on Fraunces bar in order to \"shake up the government\" and \"awake the people\". In their opinion, this would force a move away from a political environment that \"forced [independentist] to live in fear of losing what little they have\", expressing a lack of concern as being \"labeled as radicals\" and excluded by other pro-independence organizations, summarizing its posture by stating that \"[they] never feel excluded due to a la of fear to losing [their] being [and] identity\", \"not fearing sanctions, persecution, jail or death\". Claiming to be ready for a \"prolonged struggle\" independent of \"a desire for adventure\" or influenced by \"anarchy [and] sectarism\", the EBP closed this intervention by requesting the left create an unified thesis that enables it to \"move from theory to practice\", by using armed resistance \"to break with dependency and immovilism\".\n\nA year later, in another homage the EPB remembered that Ojeda Ríos promoted a strategy of planning the group's actions while \"thinking like the enemy\". Claiming that his final orders were to \"always continue forward, because the struggle continues\", the organization expressed their interpretation that this was a call for escalation following his death. The EPB emphasized that Ojeda Ríos lived through several milestones in local, American, Latin American and Caribbean politics, influencing his decision to support armed resistance instead of partisan elections. Reaffirming their Marxist ideology, the organization discarded the possibility of participating in future elections and claimed that only beneficiaries of them were \"the bourgeois\" and \"small bourgeois\" of the political parties. Citing Albizu's belief that the status issue was an international concern involving two distinct nations and that the Treaty of Party was a null arrangement and that consequently no law approved by the U.S. Congress was legally valid, the group discarded participation in any status referendum as well. The EPB closed this communication by listing events such as the protests against the U.S. Navy in Vieques as \"victories for independence\" and by urging the other organizations within the movement to unite in armed resistance and accomplish the establishment of a socialist independent state.\n\nOn April 8, 2014, the EPB issued another statement to commemorate the birthday of Betances, this time quoting the message that Ojeda Ríos offered nine years before and citing that to them it was still as relevant. Disregarding what they described as \"the practice of political condencendence\", the organization cited an ongoing migration to support the conclusion that the territorial status was \"in decay\" and asserting that this was a \"clear signal\" to act against. Noting that not even \"the most sophisticated and philosophical arguments\" would be able to distance them from their current postures, the EPB stated that they would \"never renounce armed resistance\". The organization concluded this message by warning the local and federal governments that they would continue with this strategy to \"honor the martyrs\".\n\nTwo weeks after sociologist Carlos A. Bayón Caraballo announced that he had begun the inscription process for a party named Macheteros Unidos on April 16, 2014, the EPB distanced itself from the initiative and informed that only it and the PRTP were recognized as real \"Macheteros\" within the independence movement. Criticizing Bayón's intention to have MU registered at the Department of State, whereas the clandestine groups have avoided doing so, the organization also disavowed the new party's platform (labeling it as the \"absolute opposite [of the EPB's]\") and in particular a proposal that would enable the death penalty in Puerto Rico. Guasábara declared that Bayón was \"an impostor\" and also included the Segundo Comandante in this category, stating that this figure was never a member of the EPB and that he did not engage in conversations with Ojeda Ríos as claimed. The organization concluded by noting that months before they had claimed that the COINTELPRO operation was being intensified and warned independentists to be wary of impersonators that may \"cause further divisions\".\n\nOn March 9, 2015, Commander Guasábara issued a press release where it attacked the Value Added Tax proposal (better known by its Spanish acronyms \"IVA\") supported by the Garcia Padilla administration as part of its response to the Puerto Rican debt crisis. The EPB labeled it as an initiative that promotes the migration of more Puerto Ricans to the United States and as move made by the government to replace the population with foreign millionaires to address the financial decline. The organization expressed its belief that the IVA is a measure that is designed for independent nations and unrealistic for a territory, sacrificing the middle class and small and medium businesses in order to met the demands of bond buyers. Commander Guasábara concluded his exposition by warning against a divided response to the IVA, insisting that only an unified resistance could overcome the government and by warning that the Macheteros would \"be there [to retaliate] in the right time\" if it advanced from the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico and was adopted as law. Facing opposition even within the PPD, the IVA initiative was postponed and instead a modified version of the current income tax was adopted until it could be reformulated.\n\nLater that month, the EPB issued a statement where they expressed the belief that a joint drill organized by Garcia Padilla's administration in collaboration with the federal government was in fact a military exercise that was organized to advance the Obama administration's campaign against the socialist government of Venezuela. Known as Operación Respuesta Borinqueña (literally \"Operation Puerto Rican Response\") and held March 16–21, the training was officially described as a first response practice in an emergency involving tsunamis or a chemical attack. However, Commander Guasábara expressed that a reunion held in the Dominican Republic with the official purpose of coordinating the drill was in fact a reunion between military officials of that nation, Puerto Rico and the United States, which was planned the year before with the collaboration of Venezuelan opposition leaders Carlos M. Tamayo and Carlos Fernandez (collectively known as \"Los Carlos\"). The Macheteros claims that the representatives of the Puerto Rico national guard protested when the topic was discussed, but the training went ahead unchanged with the supervision of several American generals, including the heads of the USNORTHCOM and USSOUTHCOM. The statement concludes by noting that the EBP's Intelligence Division had been monitoring military exercises carried out by the United States armed forces in the municipalities of Utuado and Lares, also being aware of the presence of a military helicopter in the region.\n\nOn July 11, 2015, the EPB issued another statement, this time warning that \"they will do what is necessary\" according to the moment's circumstances and that \"the people should not pay a debt that does not belong to the people\". Thorough its spokesman, the group anticipated that \"[in its] ineptitude and impotency\" the government would exploit the crisis to privatize profits and socialize losses, citing the privatization of the turnpike system, Luis Munoz Marin Airport, the Puerto Rico Telephone Company and the Teodoro Moscoso Bridge as previous examples of this tendency. The EBP expressed dissatisfaction in what they perceived as \"an environment of indifference\" within sectors of local society that \"still expect magic solutions\" from those responsible for the crisis, which serves as a hindrance to the militant action that they pursue. Commander Guasábara then offers an alliance that oversees previous differences. In asking the rhetoric question \"What would you do for yourself, your children and your country?\" the Macheteros urged the public to hold an investigation and \"judge those responsible\" for what they consider an \"irresponsible and unnecessary debt [cased by] the corrupt administrations that we have tolerated for 50 years\". The EPB concluded this press release by urging the public to \"take the streets and manifest their anger in the way that they prefer\", but not before stating that the time for marches was gone and that it is \"time to take action\".\n\nCommander Guasábara released a statement discussing the 10th anniversary of the death of Ojeda Ríos. In it he states that at 4:15 p.m. On September 23, 2005, the EPB received a warning that the FBI was already engaging their commander and enacted a protocol to protect information and identities as well as notifying the media of the event. Guasábara informed that Ojeda Ríos has known for almost a year that they were being tracked, with confidential tips warning them that agents had been seen around some of the EPB's members, while acquaintances were also under surveillance. Confronted by this, he states that preemptive reunions were held to discuss this information and set measures, but Ojeda Ríos focused on the continuity of the organization after his death and disregarded suggestions to move away from his house and possibly leave Puerto Rico, insisting that he would engage any attack on his person. Guasábara lamented that no legal process was held against those responsible for the FBI operative and the local authorities that cooperated with it, but insisted that \"trial of the people\" had been held and fortified the EPB's reputation. He closed this statement by stating that the organization planned to continue following the ideology of Ojeda Ríos well into the future.\n\nSupporters of independence for Puerto Rico argue that the U.S. favored the establishment of the present Commonwealth status to create a perpetual consumer base for U.S. and foreign products and services. Foreign products and services are redirected to Puerto Rico and other \"unincorporated\" lands of the United States to satisfy a portion of foreign trade agreements, while allowing domestic products and services a greater \"home\" market share. Another argument by the independence movement is that the \"Macheteros\" are continuing the historical rebellion that Puerto Ricans such as Pedro Albizu Campos and the Nationalist Party have waged, against U.S. domination of the island. It is known, for example, that Los Macheteros deliberately chose September 12 for their \"Águila\" Blanca assault on the Wells Fargo depot, because September 12 was the birthday of Puerto Rican Nationalist leader Pedro Albizu Campos. Beginning in the 1960s, the FBI infiltrated Puerto Rico's free press and political circles in order to monitor and disrupt efforts related to independence movements like Los Macheteros. This operation was part of COINTELPRO. The EPB's rebuttal to being classified as a terrorist organization is that per the definition adopted in the 1979 Conference on International Terrorism that posits \"deliberate, systematic murder, maiming and menacing of the innocent to inspire fear in order to earn political gains\", they do not qualify as such since their targets are strictly the American military or law enforcement and that they have never targeted civilians.\n\nThe FBI classifies the EPB as a terrorist organization based on their definition of the term, \"[the use of] force or violence [...] in furtherance of political or social objectives\", without specification on the target. In 1982, the Senate Subcommittee on the Administration of Internal Security Act compiled a paper titled \"The Cuban Connection to Puerto Rican Terrorism\" where it claimed that Ojeda was an agent of the Cuban government and in which the FBI knowing where he operated. After the application of the Levi guidelines, only eight groups were classified as requiring full investigation. Of them, five were based in Puerto Rico and besides the EPB also included the FARP, FALN, COR and MLN. In 2001, then-FBI Director Louis J. Freeh reaffirmed the agency's historical stance that the group committed acts of terrorism.\n\nIn his book \"Los Macheteros: The Wells Fargo Robbery and the Violent Struggle for Puerto Rican Independence\", Spanish-American author Ronald Fernández argued that based on the descriptions of terrorism and revolutionary violence in books like Benjamin Netanyahu's \"Terrorism: How the West can Win\" or Albert Camus' \"The Rebel\", the EPB would not be classified as a terrorist organization, since that would require them to target \"anyone except soldiers\" and the use of fear as a tactic. Whereas, the organization's target selection, namely the US military/federal government and the avoidance of civilians fits into the classification of a guerrilla or revolutionary group. The author does not condone violence, but uses Camus' argument on \"necessary\" rebel violence as inexcusable but still \"historically necessary\". To this end, Fernández identifies that from the EPB's point of view, the deaths at Sabana Seca were \"terrible but necessary\" despite personally disagreeing, while considering the destruction of military vehicles at Sabana Seca justified from a rebel's standpoint. Ultimately, the author concludes that such labeling could be of political convenience to the federal government, serving to \"shift the blame for any attacks on U.S. policy or personnel from us to them\".\n\nAn 80-minute documentary film about the EPB, titled \"MACHETERO\", was released in 2008. Starring Not4Prophet (Ricanstruction), as Pedro Taíno, and Isaach De Bankolé (\"Casino Royale\"), as French journalist Jean Dumont, the film takes place in both New York City and Puerto Rico. Other actors include Kelvin Fernández (first starring role) and Dylcia Pagán. The film was the winner of the 2008 South Africa International Film Festival, 2009 Swansea Film Festival, 2009 Heart of England Film Festival, 2009 International Film Festival Thailand, and the 2009 International Film Festival Ireland.\n\nThe first single published by band Calle 13 was \"Querido FBI\", which was extra-officially released before their debut album, a response to the events of September 23, 2005. It is a protest song, directly addressing the circumstances surrounding the death of Ojeda Ríos.\n\nLikewise, the event led to the creation of murals. Some were painted by student movements such as one at UPR Río Piedras, whereas others were painted by urban artists.\n\nThe polarizing nature of the organization have also been exploited in the local professional wrestling industry by wrestlers such as Israel \"Joseph RPM\" Rodríguez, who integrated the moniker of \"El Machetero Mayor\" (Spanish for \"The Grandest Machetero\") into his ring name and performed as such throughout Puerto Rico as a member of several independent promotions and the World Wrestling League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2905113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905113", "title": "British National Formulary for Children", "text": "British National Formulary for Children\n\nThe British National Formulary for Children (\"BNFC\") is the standard UK paediatric reference for prescribing and pharmacology, among others indications, side effects and costs of the prescription of all medication drugs available on the National Health Service.\n\nThe \"BNFC\" is jointly published annually by the British Medical Association, the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, and the Neonatal and Paediatric Pharmacists Group.\n\nThe latest edition, \"BNF for Children 2016-2017\", is the twelfth edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12829959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12829959", "title": "Carlos Tufvesson", "text": "Carlos Tufvesson\n\nCarlos Tufvesson is a fashion designer in Brazil. He attended Domus Academy, in Milan, Italy. In 2000, he opened a space in Ipanema: One side his atelier, the other a store front. In 2001, he released his first prêt-à-porter collection during the \"Semana Barra Shopping\", a precursor event to \"Fashion Rio\". In 2004 Tufvesson introduced his work internationally at the \"São Paulo Fashion Week\".\n\nTufvesson, who is openly gay, is well known for his activism in Brazil, especially for activities benefiting HIV/AIDS causes, but also for equal rights to access marriage, as it is administered and extended by the state. Architect André Piva is his life-partner, and both are well-recognized personalities, both by the LGBT community as well as the carioca society (i.e. the \"Who is who list\" in the city of Rio de Janeiro).\n\n"}
{"id": "50351858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50351858", "title": "Carol R. Ember", "text": "Carol R. Ember\n\nCarol R. Ember (born July 7, 1943) is an American cultural anthropologist, Cross-cultural researcher and a writer of books on anthropology. She is now the Director of the Summer Institutes in Comparative Anthropological Research at the Yale University, apart from holding the post of Executive Director in the Human Relations Area of the University.\n\nCarol R. Ember was born on July 7, 1943. Initially, she studied at the Antioch College with chemistry major. She then pursued studies and research in social science. After studying sociology for one year in the graduate school at Cornell University she moved to Harvard University for doctoral studies on anthropology, basically under the guidance of John and Beatrice Whiting. For her doctoral thesis, she went to Kenya to work and study the social pattern of the Luo people. This study indicated that several boys were engaged in duties which otherwise the girls would perform, like caring for children and domestic works as their mothers were mostly engaged in agriculture work and there were not so many girls in the family who could help her. Ember studied this social pattern in depth by systematic behavioral observations of the boys in comparison with the girls. She noted that boys who did the work normally assigned to girls were \"intermediate in many social behaviors, compared with the other boys and girls\". Following this study, she continued her research in the field of cross-cultural study on \"variation in marriage, family, descent groups, and war and peace.\" She did this study in association with Melvin Ember who later became her husband; they got married in 1970. This study was also correlated with similar cross-cultural studies done in other parts of the world. \n\nEmber started her professional career by teaching at the Hunter College of the City University of New York and worked there from 1970 to 1996.\nEmber was president of the Society of Cross-Cultural Research and was one of the directors of the Summer Institutes in Comparative Anthropological Research; both these institutions received funding from the National Science Foundation. From 1996 to 1999 she worked as Executive Director of the Human Relations Area Files, Inc., a nonprofit research agency of the Yale University.\n\nEmber is engaged now as the editor of the journal Cross-Cultural Research. She is the leader of a 4-year NSF-supported interdisciplinary research project to study the effect of natural hazards on culture.\n\nEmber has coauthored many books. The first book is titled \"Anthropology\" with Melvin Ember and Peter N. Peregrine as coauthors which is in its 14th print. The second book is \"Archaeology: Original Readings in Method and Practice\", also coauthored with Melvin Ember and Peter N. Peregrine which is also in its 14th edition. This book has 25 articles by well known archaeologists covering a complete range of archaeological methods and related issues and controversies in present day archaeology. The third book is titled \"Physical Anthropology and Archaeology\"' coauthored with Peregrine and Robert D. Hoppa. This is available in CD Rom format also and is an introductory to physical anthropology and archaeology with particular detailing on \"human evolution, major revolutions in human cultural evolution, contemporary variation in humans, and practical applications of anthropology and archaeology.\" Another book which Ember has authored with her husband is titled \"Cross-Cultural Research Methods\"which is in its 2nd print.\n\n"}
{"id": "6357583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6357583", "title": "Case (policy debate)", "text": "Case (policy debate)\n\nIn policy debate, which is a form of argument competition, a case, sometimes known as plan, is a textual advocacy presented, in form of speech, by the affirmative team as a normative or \"should\" statement; it is generally presented in the First Affirmative Constructive (1AC). A case will often include either the resolution or a rephrasing of it.\n\nThe case is the advocacy established by the affirmative in the First affirmative constructive speech, often constructed around the support of a policy recommendation known as the affirmative plan. While the 1AC defines the parameters for the bulk of an affirmative's argument, the term \"case\" can be used to cover the entirety of the affirmative argument more broadly, referring, for instance, to additional advantages, counter-arguments, or rebuttal evidence that might be introduced in later speeches (if at all).\n\nThe case is a form of on topic debate and can also be referred to as C, if done in the standard way C is a very effective way to win a case. The case is generally organized into sections called \"observations\" or \"contentions\", with advantages attached to the link or link break.\n\nA typical case includes between two and four observations/contentions, depending on the speed of the intended speaker and the length of the observations/contentions. Traditionally, observations/contentions address one of the stock issues and are labeled accordingly. For example:\n\n\nOr:\n\n\nThese outlines are quite general, and different debaters may retain some or none of the above structural elements as their situations dictate. On an aesthetic level, for example, it is not uncommon for some cases to include creative titles for observations and advantages. A case increasing the number of pilots in the United States Air Force might call the first contention \"Air Power.\"\n\nOn a more practical level, recent policy debate cases have made a habit of including one or more contentions which do not directly relate to the affirmative thesis, but are designed to preempt common negative attacks. For instance, a team running a case often considered nontopical might devote 45 seconds of the first affirmative constructive to reading contextual definitions of disputed terms in order to frame the debate in a favourable light early on. (Because topicality is a \"meta-issue\" it is traditionally omitted from the opening presentation of the case, although historically an introductory contention where the affirmative defined the terms of the resolution was much more common.) Additionally, teams might decide to include \"non-unique\" contentions, where the information presented bears little on the overall affirmative argument other than to say that any negative disadvantage should have already occurred in the status quo.\n\nWhile some high school regions prefer affirmative cases to be organized around the \"stock issues,\" others have stressed an emphasis on a \"comparative advantage\" style case construction. The primary difference between the two forms of cases is one of style and emphasis, though in many instances the information presented can be almost identical. A case built around \"advantages\" stresses the superiority of the plan (or broader affirmative advocacy) to the status quo, through a series of direct comparisons between the plan and the status quo. The impact calculus offered within advantages can vary widely across different cases. Some might argue that the plan effects a \"policy\" change for the better, or prevents something that is bad that the status quo all but guarantees. For instance, an advantage to a plan increasing the strength of United Nations peacekeeping operations in Kashmir could argue that such an operation would prevent nuclear war between India and Pakistan.\n\nAn advantage might also be more philosophical in nature. Loosely defined as \"critical\" or \"kritikal\" such advantages tend to eschew traditional cost-benefit analysis, claiming either that there are philosophical problems with the status quo such as prevalent racism, heteronormativity/homophobia, patriarchy, militarism, which the plan can address, or that certain forms of analysis (for instance, Consequentialism) are on face immoral and should be rejected as possible tools to evaluate the affirmative case.\n\nSome more \"critical\" cases might also argue that the advocacy of the affirmative should not be reduced to a \"plan\" or policy advocacy, opting instead to defend it as a \"speech act\" or \"discourse\" more holistically.\n\n"}
{"id": "38294825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38294825", "title": "Catalan Courts", "text": "Catalan Courts\n\nThe Catalan Courts or General Court of Catalonia ( or ) was the policymaking and parliamentary body of the Principality of Catalonia from the 13th to the 18th century. The courts were made up of three arms or estates: the \"military estate\" which included representatives from the nobility, the \"ecclesiastical estate\" which saw representatives from the religious hierarchy and the \"royal\" estate which had representatives from the municipalities. The courts were summoned by the king who opened with a royal proclamation while the arms were in charge of legislating, always with the support of the sovereign. If the laws that were approved came from the king they received the name of \"Constitutions\", if they came from the Estates, \"Court Chapters\". If the king passed a law unilaterally it was called \"Acts of Courts\" and required ratification by the courts.\n\nIt is comparable to similar institutions across Europe, such as the Parliament of England and the Diets () of the German \"lands\".\n\nThe General Courts of the Crown of Aragon were the simultaneous meeting of the Courts of Aragon, Valencian Courts and the Courts of Catalonia. The Kingdom of Majorca did not convene Courts and thus sent their representatives to the Courts of the Principality. As the courts could not be held outside of Aragon nor the Principality, they were frequently held in Monzón or in Fraga, Aragonese towns which lay equidistant between Zaragoza and Barcelona.\n\nUnlike the Courts of Castile of the time which functioned only as an advisory body to which the king granted privileges and exemptions, the Catalan Courts was a regulatory body, as their decisions had the force of law, in the sense that the king could not unilaterally revoke them.\n\nThe origin of the Catalan Courts is located in the Cort Comtal (circa 1000) and in the meetings of the \"Peace and Truce\" that from 1021 met to discuss and agree on the termination of wars and violence.\nThe first Catalan Courts date from 1192, the year in which the townspeople participated for the first time in the meeting of the \"Peace and Truce\". Those of 1214 were convened by the papal legate, Cardinal Pietro di Benevento in the Castell de la Suda, in Lleida and responded to the need to fix the confusing situation in the country after the death of King Peter of Aragon at the Battle of Muret and the beginning of the reign of his son James I who was only six years old. The new king of Aragon took his oath before prelates and magnates of the royal curia, representatives of cities and villages. At the time of James I (1208-1276), they met summoned by the king as representative of the social classes of the time.\n\nUnder the reign of Peter the Great (1276-1285), the Catalan courts took institutional form. \n\nIn the courts held in Barcelona in 1283, the king was forced to hold a General Court once a year, with representative participation of the time, to discuss the good of the state and land reform. The king himself stated: \"«...si nós i els successors nostres volem fer alguna constitució o estatut a Catalunya, els sotmetrem a l'aprovació i consentiment dels Prelats, dels Barons, dels Cavallers i dels Ciutadans...»\". (Translation from Catalan: \"if we and our successors want to make a constitution or statute in Catalonia, we will submit them to the approval and consent of the prelates, barons, knights and citizens ...\").\n\nIn the courts held in Monzón in 1289, Delegation of the General Court was appointed as a permanent council to collect the \"service\" or tribute that the arms granted to the king at his request. Later, this would give rise to the Generalitat of Catalonia, in the fourteenth century. Its regulation was also used to create in the fifteenth century the Valencian Generalitat.\n\nIn the Parliament of 1358-1359, held in Barcelona, Vilafranca del Penedès and Cervera under King Peter IV, Castile invaded Aragon and Valencia. This caused a series of armed conflicts that resulted in considerable expenses to the Crown of Aragon. This circumstance prompted the courts to appoint twelve deputies with executive powers in taxation and some \"oïdors de comptes\" who controlled the administration, under the authority of Berenguer de Cruïlles, bishop of Girona, who is regarded as the first President of the Generalitat.\n\nIn 1519, the Courts met in Barcelona to recognize the first unified monarch of all the crowns of Castile and Aragon, -Charles I, and to discuss the granting of financial assistance to the Cort reial (Royal court). It was during the king's stay in Barcelona that he got the news that Charles had been elected emperor of the Holy Roman Empire under the name of Charles V.\n\nDuring the period of the Austrians, the Courts were summoned less and less because of a supposed brake from the absolute power of the king. Therefore, the Generalitat, as the body responsible for ensuring compliance with the constitutions of Catalonia, gained in strength and prominence.\n\nThe last General Courts were held in Barcelona in 1705-1706, which, according to historian Joaquim Albareda, represented an important advance in the guarantee of individual, civil and political rights (for example, establishing the secrecy of correspondence), while at the same time they consolidated many of the constitutional reforms of the last previous Courts (1701-1702) such as the Court of Contraventions (Catalan: \"Tribunal de Contrafaccions\"), created in order to ensure the application of the constitutions and solve and prosecute any act (included the ones done by the king or his officers) contrary to the Catalan legislation.\n\nThis institution disappeared, like the other institutions and the majority of legislation of Catalonia, after the end of the War of Succession in 1714, by the Nueva Planta decrees created by the new Spanish king, Philip V.\n\nThe current Parliament of Catalonia, legislative body of Catalan autonomous government, is considered the historical successor of this Courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3100872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3100872", "title": "Christian Voice (UK)", "text": "Christian Voice (UK)\n\nChristian Voice (CV) is a Christian advocacy group based in the United Kingdom. Its stated objective is \"to uphold Christianity as the Faith of the United Kingdom, to be a voice for Biblical values in law and public policy, and to defend and support traditional family life.\" It is independent of religious, denominational, or political parties.\n\nCV is led by Stephen Green, with Lord Ashbourne as its patron. Green is the group's spokesperson, producing scores of press releases from 2005 to 2010. According to Green, Christian Voice had in excess of 600 members in 2005.\n\nThe group has been criticised for its positions. David Peel, leader of the United Reformed Church called Christian Voice \"a disgrace\" and described their \"claim to represent Christians\" in the UK as \"absurd\".\n\nThe leader, and sole staff member, of Christian Voice is Stephen Green, a former Chairman of the Conservative Family Campaign, who attends an Assemblies of God Church. In the early 1990s, Green was a prominent campaigner against homosexuality through the Conservative Family Campaign, and wrote a book called \"The Sexual Dead-End\".\n\nIn January 2011, Green's former wife, Caroline Green, accused him of repeatedly physically assaulting her and their children, including one incident where he allegedly beat her with a weapon until she bled, and another in which their son allegedly required hospital treatment after having been beaten with a piece of wood. The couple subsequently divorced. Stating that the article was \"highly defamatory\" and calling it a \"catalogue of smears and distortions stitched together,\" Green denied some of the allegations.\n\nChristian Voice has called for British law to be based on the Bible. It opposes abortion, homosexuality, no-fault divorce and compulsory sex education. Additionally it supports the death penalty and does not recognise the concept of marital rape. The group has also published a paper attacking Islam as untrue, and the portrayal of it as a religion of peace as false.\n\nGreen has expressed support for the Uganda Anti-Homosexuality Bill (2009) and its associated penalty of death, stating \"The Bible calls for the ultimate penalty for sodomy... A Parliamentarian in Uganda is trying to protect his nation's children. The House of Commons of the United Kingdom is trying to corrupt ours.\"\n\nAccording to the group, abortion is the killing of human beings comparable to The Holocaust.\n\nThe group wants to overturn the law on marital rape, stating that the promises given by a man and woman to each other during the marriage service in the Book of Common Prayer establish a binding consent to sexual intercourse.\n\nThe group has been involved in campaigns against the Gay Police Association (GPA). Christian Voice is opposed to police officers participating in gay pride marches, and in 2003 wrote to the Chief Constable of each force which it alleged allowed its officers to march in uniform at Pride events. The organisation published the replies on its website and, in the accompanying 16-page document \"Homosexuality and the Police\", described homosexuality as \"characterised by disease, degradation, death and denial\" and Gay Pride as \"intimidating\".\n\nOn 2 September 2006, Green was arrested while handing out pamphlets urging homosexuals to \"turn from their sins\" at the Cardiff Mardi Gras. The police considered the leaflets hateful. The Crown Prosecution Service decided to withdraw their prosecution of Green on the grounds of insufficient evidence; the police stated that this did not \"challenge the legality\" of his arrest. Green's solicitor indicated he would seek damages in civil court for \"abuse of police powers.\"\n\nChristian Voice was behind much of the controversy in the UK surrounding \"\" and a transmission of a performance by the BBC in 2005. The group stated that the production was blasphemous in its depiction of Jesus, Mary and God as guests on the Jerry Springer Show. Green said of the production,\n\nThe group maintained a presence outside the Cambridge Theatre in London where it ran. It then mounted protests outside every theatre on the 2006 run of the show, attributing the financial disaster of the tour to divine intervention rather than its own actions. In 2009, it mounted protests outside the St Andrews University production.\n\nChristian Voice started a campaign for people to complain to the BBC and published the home addresses and telephone numbers of two BBC executives on their web site, Jana Bennett (Director of Television) and Roly Keating (Controller of BBC Two). Keating subsequently received death threats.\n\nOn 8 January 2007, submissions were made on behalf of Stephen Green at Horseferry Road Magistrates Court to pursue private prosecutions for blasphemy against the Director General of the BBC Mark Thompson and the show's producer, Jonathan Thoday. A summons was refused on 30 January 2007 due to lack of prima facie evidence that a crime had been committed, and the provisions of the 1968 Theatres Act, which enshrines the right of free expression in theatrical works. An appeal to the High Court was dismissed on 5 December 2007. On 5 March 2008 the House of Lords rejected the call to hear an appeal of the High Court's decision because \"it did not raise an arguable point of law of general public importance\".\n\nThe offences of Blasphemy and Blasphemous Libel were abolished by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 with effect from 8 July 2008.\n\nCV placed an advertisement in the New Statesman asserting that HPV vaccines would make young people sterile. In January 2009, the Advertising Standards Authority ruled that the advertisement breached advertising regulations on accuracy. Christian Voice had predicted the ruling and responded \"requiring the substantiation of a future prediction in an opinion piece is preposterous and an infringement of freedom of speech.\"\n\nIn November 2008, following the failed private prosecution by Emily Mapfuwa over the display of a foot-high statue of Jesus with a phallus in the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Art, Gateshead, Stephen Green urged Christians to \"create public disorder if [they] wish such a case to proceed in future\", and stated that the artwork in question would \"not survive being put on public display again.\"\n\nOn 8 January 2009, Christian Voice complained to the Advertising Standards Authority about the Atheist Bus Campaign's adverts on 800 buses across England, Scotland and Wales. CV objected to the slogan, \"There's probably no God. Now stop worrying and enjoy your life.\" On 21 January, the ASA ruled that the adverts were not in breach of its rules as the advert \"was an expression of the advertiser’s opinion\" and was incapable of substantiation. They also claimed that although the advert was contrary to many people's beliefs, it would not generate \"serious or widespread offence\".\n\nIn December 2010, when the BBC aired \"The Nativity\", described by the Church of England as a \"gritty interpretation,\" Stephen Green objected to – in his eyes – the portrayal of Mary as a whore. He was documented in the press condemning the presentation saying \"They wouldn’t mock the birth of Muhammad, or anything to do with his life story. They wouldn’t ridicule Hinduism or Sikhism, but Christianity is their big target.\"\n\nIn February 2005, Christian Voice was reported to have caused the cancer charity, Maggie's Centres, to decline a £3,000 donation from the proceeds of a special performance of \"\". The charity had been due to receive £10 per ticket for an afternoon gala but declined the donation after CV had threatened to picket their centres, which offer palliative care to cancer sufferers and their families.\n\nIn June 2005, Christian Voice's bankers, the Co-operative Bank, instructed the group to close its account because the group's stance on homosexuality was in conflict with the bank's ethical policies of diversity. The \"Gay Times\" awarded an ethical corporate stance award to the Co-operative Bank in response to this move. In response to this, Christian Voice encouraged a boycott of the bank.\n\nAfter the appearance of Green on \"Question Time\" in September 2005, the group was condemned by David Peel, then Moderator of the General Assembly of the United Reformed Church. Peel said:\n\nIt is a matter of some regret that ... the BBC should choose to undermine the reputation of Question Time by giving a platform to a small, self-selecting group distinguished by its claim to be a prophetic voice in this country ... Christian Voice has the right to express its extreme views, but it is as representative of Christian opinion in Britain as the Monster Raving Loony Party would be of mainstream political parties – and far less entertaining.\n\nOn 11 March 2008 Stephen Green was interviewed by openly gay celebrity Ian \"H\" Watkins for the BBC Wales programme \"Week In Week Out\" where he told Watkins his lifestyle was ‘sinful’, and made him no better than serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer.\n\nGreen then appeared on the BBC Wales programme \"Dragon's Eye\" on 13 November 2008, after a campaign by CV caused the book chain Waterstone's to cancel a book-signing by Welsh poet, Patrick Jones, described as \"obscene and blasphemous\" by Green. Jones instead read from his book at the Welsh Assembly\nPhilip Hensher, a commentator for \"The Independent\" newspaper, describes Green as a comic character, and Christian Voice as an extremist group. In \"The Guardian\" he has been described by George Monbiot as a \"ranting homophobe\".\n\nIn May 2008, Green was featured in the British Channel 4 current affairs documentary series \"Dispatches - In God's Name\" as a leader in the fundamentalist movement in the United Kingdom. This prompted Joel Edwards, head of the Evangelical Alliance, to write a public letter discounting Green's impact on Christianity, and calling him an extremist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2188436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188436", "title": "Consultation (Texas)", "text": "Consultation (Texas)\n\nThe Consultation served as the provisional government of Mexican Texas from October 1835 to March 1836 during the Texas Revolution. Tensions rose in Texas during early 1835 as throughout Mexico federalists began to oppose the increasingly centralist policies of the government. In the summer, Texians elected delegates to a political convention to be held in Gonzales in mid-October. Weeks before the convention and war began, settlers took up arms against Mexican soldiers at the Battle of Gonzales. The convention was postponed until November 1 after many of the delegates joined the newly organized volunteer Texian Army to initiate a siege of the Mexican garrison at San Antonio de Bexar. On November 3, a quorum was reached in San Antonio. \nWithin days, the delegates passed a resolution to define why Texians were fighting. They expressed allegiance to the deposed Constitution of 1824 and maintained their right to form an independent government while this document was not in effect. Henry Smith was elected governor of the new provisional government and the remaining delegates formed a General Council. In the next weeks, the council authorized the creation of a new regular army to be commanded by Sam Houston. As Houston worked to establish an army independent from the existing volunteer army, the council repeatedly interfered in military matters.\n\nAfter authorizing an expedition to take Matamoros, Mexico, the council named several men, simultaneously, to organize and lead the assault, angry at the effect the expedition was having on existing Texian garrisons, Smith dissolved the council. Alleging that Smith did not have the authority to disband them, council members impeached him and lieutenant governor James W. Robinson was named acting governor.\n\nThe Mexican War of Independence (1810-1821) severed Spain's control over much of its North American territories, including Texas. The 1824 Constitution of Mexico defined the new country as a federal republic with nineteen states and four territories. Due to limited population and extremely poor economies, the provinces of Texas and Coahuila were combined to become the state Coahuila y Tejas. In the hopes that an influx of settlers could control the Indian raids, the new government liberalized immigration policies for the region. Under the General Colonization Law people from the United States could, for the first time, legally settle in Texas. Large tracts of land were granted to \"empresarios\", who were responsible for recruiting settlers and establishing communities in Texas. With one exception, the new colonies were settled by foreigners. \"Tejanos\", Texas residents of Mexican descent, were soon vastly outnumbered by Anglos. By 1834, an estimated 30,000 Anglos lived in Coahuila y Tejas, compared to only 7,800 Tejanos. By 1833, Texas was divided into three political divisions: the Department of Béxar, the Department of Nacogdoches, and the Department of the Brazos.\n\nBy late 1834, the Mexican government began transitioning from a federalist model to centralism. Santa Anna overturned the 1824 Constitution, dismissed the state legislatures, and ordered all militias disbanded. Federalists throughout Mexico were appalled. The governor of Coahuila y Tejas, Agustín Viesca, refused to dissolve the legislature, instead ordering that the session reconvene in Béxar, further from the influence of the Mexican army. Viesca was arrested before he reached Texas. Citizens in the states of Oaxaca and Zacatecas took up arms.\n\nPublic opinion in Texas was divided. In June 1835, one group staged a minor revolt against customs duties in Anahuac. Resolutions by the city councils in Mina, Gonzales, Goliad, and Columbia denounced their actions. Civic leaders in Mina were so disgusted they called for public meetings to determine whether settlers supported independence, a return to federalism, or the status quo. Although some leaders worried that Mexican officials would see this type of gathering as a step toward revolution, the \"ayuntamientos\" of both Columbia and San Felipe quickly endorsed the suggestion. They hoped that a political convention would make it quite clear that the majority of Texians did not support the radicals. After the leaders of Columbia argued forcefully for the convention, the political chief of the department of the Brazos called for a meeting of representatives of municipalities in that department on August 1. Only four of the seven appointed delegates appeared. Discovering there was no official agenda, the four men returned home without actually doing anything.\n\nAs a response to the Anahuac disturbances, the commander of the Mexican army in Texas, Domingo de Ugartechea, requested reinforcements to help capture the dissidents. Small groups of soldiers began arriving in early August; in response, local municipalities formed Committees of Correspondence and Safety and unofficial militias. On August 9, citizens at a public meeting in Brazoria again broached the idea of a larger political convention. Other communities debated whether to participate in such a convention, and whether its goals should be simply an exchange of opinions or to create an interim government. The proposed political gathering, which became known as the Consultation, was endorsed by Stephen F. Austin, the first \"empresario\" in Texas, on September 8, which solidified support throughout the Anglo colonies. Austin became the \"de facto\" leader of the Consultation, making plans for the gathering, which would convene on October 15. He requested that each community send one delegate early, to form a Permanent Council to start gathering opinions.\n\nIn the interim, hostilities between Mexican soldiers and Texas colonists increased, and in early October a group of Texians attacked a Mexican army contingent which had been sent to retrieve a cannon that had previously been loaned to Gonzales. This small skirmish marked the official start of the Texas Revolution. Gonzales became a rallying point for Texas settlers who opposed the centralist policies, and men flocked to the town. On October 11, the men formed themselves into a volunteer Texian Army and elected Austin as their commander. Many of the Consultation delegates had also gathered in Gonzales, and rather than wait for the session to begin, they joined the army on a march against the Mexican garrison at Béxar.\n\nBy October 16, only 31 delegates had arrived in San Felipe, short of a quorum. Most expected the siege of Béxar to be over very quickly, so the Consultation was postponed until November 1. In the interim, this group of delegates granted power to the Permanent Council, which in practice included representation from only seven districts. The Permanent Council made weak attempts to govern the area, but primarily carried out Austin's orders. In its most controversial move, the council closed all land offices in the region on October 27, to prevent speculators from seizing land during the unrest.\n\nThe siege of Béxar began in late October. Newly arrived immigrant Sam Houston traveled to Béxar to exhort the delegates to leave the siege and come to the Consultation. In a compromise, the officers voted to allow delegates who were members of the rank-and-file or were line officers to leave the siege, while those who were staff officers would remain to oversee military operations. William B. Travis, William Wharton, and Stephen F. Austin remained behind, while twenty delegates, including James Bowie, accompanied Houston to San Felipe.\n\nEach municipality in Texas was encouraged to send five delegates to the convention. Some municipalities, including Nacogdoches, elected seven. A total of 98 delegates were elected. These men were established citizens, with an average length of residence of seven years, with an average age of 38. Approximately one-third of the delegates were staunch supporters of the Constitution of 1824, another third strongly advocated independence, and the remainder were unaligned.\n\nOnly 58 of these men attended. None of the delegates from the war areas - Béxar, Goliad, Refugio, Victoria, and San Patricio - appeared. This effectively ensured that there were no \"Tejano\" delegates that the Consultation. Many delegates from the other regions of Texas remained in the army or stayed home to defend their families. Because Austin and many of his Peace Party supporters were still with the army at Bexar, they were unable to provide as much influence to the gathering as expected.\n\nAn overwhelming percentage of the delegates who attended were men who had previous political experience. Twenty of them had been active in the Communities of Correspondence and Public Safety in their respective towns.\n\nA quorum finally formed on November 3, and delegates continued to arrive over the next few days. Although Austin had endorsed Lorenzo de Zavala to preside over the gathering, delegates elected Branch Tanner Archer of Brazoria. In a speech after his appointment, Archer urged his comrades \"to divest yourselves of all party feelings, to discard every selfish motive, and look alone to the true interest of your country.\" Before the group could move towards official business, Houston rose to a make speech. He gave thanks to many for actions taken over the recent months. His eloquence was unimportant and unnecessary, except as a means for him to become better known to the other delegates. For the remainder of the day, the delegates drafted rules of order. Similar to those used in the legislative bodies of the United States and Europe, the rules emphasized courtesy. In an unusual move, the rules prohibited delegates from abstaining from voting. As president, Archer was forbidden from voting except to break a tie.\n\nThe Consultation's main purpose was to decide the overall goals of the revolution. Members of the War Party advocated for complete independence from Mexico, while Peace Party representatives wished for Texas to remain part of Mexico, but only under the 1824 Constitution of Mexico. Although Austin was unable to attend, he did send a letter to the consultation, asking them to follow the Constitution of 1824 and to make it clear to Mexico that the hostilities were not an attempt for independence but instead a determination to fight for their rights as Mexican citizens.\n\nOn November 4, John Wharton was named chair of a committee to determine the purpose of the war. After three full days of deliberation failed to produce a resolution, delegates began a full debate on the floor. The turning point of the discussion came when Houston, who many believed to be a staunch member of the War Party, asked the fellow delegates to refrain from declaring independence. Such a declaration would likely cause many of the people who supported the Constitution of 1824 in other parts of Mexico to refrain from supporting the Texians. The Consultation compromised. On November 7, they released a resolution declaring that \"The people of Texas, availing themselves of their natural rights, solemnly declare that they have taken up arms in defense of their rights and liberties which were threatened by the encroachments of military despots and in defense of the Republican principles of the federal constitution of Mexico of 1824.\" The resolution further specified that Texas reserved the right to create an independent government as long as Mexico was not governed by that document. The members hoped that this wording would allow them to gain support from both federalists within Mexico and from the United States. The resolution passed 33–14.\n\nIn what historian William C. Davis dubbed \"the three shortest yet perhaps most significant resolutions in the document,\" the delegates agreed that Texas would pay for the army, would repay any goods purchased by its agents, and would give volunteers public lands. These were powers reserved for states, and under the Constitution of 1824 Texas was not a stand-alone state. With these words, delegates violated the very constitution they had sworn to uphold. Davis asserts that this provision signified that the delegates fully intended for Texas to become an independent nation, eventually.\n\nFifty-seven delegates signed the resolution. de Zavala translated it into Spanish, and copies in both languages were ordered to be printed and distributed to residents.\nA committee was immediately established to design a provisional government, with Henry Smith as chair. The committee's first proposal was a near-verbatim copy of the preamble to the United States Constitution and included a statement that Texas was now a \"sovereign state\". Delegates voted against this draft and insisted that the committee membership be changed. All committee members who supported independence were removed from their positions, and the new committee began deliberations anew. On November 13, this group produced a document that won approval.\n\nThe new government would consist of a chief executive and a General Council who would share powers. Under the assumption that these two branches would have full cooperation, there was no system of checks and balances. Believing there was no time to wait for general elections, the Consultation determined that the governor and lieutenant governor would be chosen by the delegates themselves, a practice somewhat common among states in the United States. Although Austin was nominated, he lost to Smith 31–22. James Robinson was elected lieutenant governor. As lieutenant governor, Robinson would preside over the General Council, which would consist of one representative from each municipality.\n\nThree delegates-Austin, Archer, and Wharton-were appointed as agents to the United States to try to raise money and volunteers. Austin immediately resigned his post as commander of the volunteers; the troops elected Edward Burleson as their new leader. Houston was appointed to the Select Committee on Indian Affairs, as he had spent much of his career dealing with Indian nations. The Texians needed the support of the Indians (or at least their neutrality) to win their fight against Mexico.\n\nThe Consultation officially adjourned on November 15, leaving the new provisional government in charge.\n\nThe soldiers currently fighting near Béxar were volunteers, who joined the army to accomplish a specific task and staunchly maintained their right to elect their own leaders. On November 13, the council officially established a regular army. Houston was appointed to command this new Provisional Army of Texas, subject to the orders of the governor. Houston was instructed to raise an army from scratch; because the volunteers had organized before the Consultation convened, they could not be forced to accept Houston as their commander. The new army should consist of 2,500 men, who would enlist for 2-year terms in exchange for land grants.\n\nAfter consulting with some of the officers currently at the siege of Béxar, notably Travis and James W. Fannin, the council chose to expand the army. On December 5 they created a Corps of Permanent Volunteers, which would have a shorter enlistment period and more autonomy. This move hindered Houston's efforts to fill his regular army; most citizens preferred to join the Permanent Volunteers.\n\nOn December 11, the Mexican troops in Béxar surrendered and agreed to march south of the Rio Grande. With their departure, there was no longer an organized garrison of Mexican troops in Texas, and many of the Texians believed that the war was over. Burleson resigned his leadership of the army on December 15 and returned to his home. Many of the men did likewise, and Frank W. Johnson assumed command of the 400 soldiers who remained.\n\nThe Mexican retreat gave the Council the time to formalize the government and begin planning for the future, without the threat of attack. Little was accomplished. The new Texas government had no funds, so the military was granted the authority to impress any supplies that would be useful. This policy soon resulted in an almost universal hatred of the Council, as food and supplies became scarce, especially in the areas around Goliad and Béxar, where Texian troops were stationed. The \"Telegraph and Texas Register\" noted that \"some are not willing, under the present government, to do any duty...That our government is bad, all acknowledge, and no one will deny.\"\n\nCiting an aborted coup attempt on November 25, Smith proposed a bill making it treasonous to make threats against the provisional government. The Council, by now used to \"the governor's addiction to exaggerated and inflammatory rhetoric\", ignored him. On December 19, a group of prominent citizens, led by Moseley Baker, Wylie Martin, and William Pettus, held a meeting in San Felipe to build support for dismantling the provisional government. They were concerned that the Council was moving too seriously towards independence instead of an adherence to the Constitution of 1824. Yet the Council had not gone far enough for some. Disillusionment with the interim government and an increased militancy among troops, whose ranks were now primarily composed of newly arrived volunteers from the United States, led to calls for a new convention. Brazoria passed a resolution asking for a convention to meet in March 1836 to declare independence. Soldiers in Goliad went a step further and drafted a declaration of independence on December 22. The Council passed a resolution to call the Convention of 1836, to meet on March 1 in Washington-on-the-Brazos.\n\nIn mid-November Governor Viesca, who had been freed by sympathetic soldiers, reached Goliad. The commander at Goliad, Philip Dimmitt welcomed Viesca but refused to recognize his authority as governor. This caused an uproar in the garrison; many supported the governor, while others believed that Texas should be an independent country and should therefore not recognize the Mexican governor. Viesca traveled to San Felipe to meet with the General Council, who also refused to recognize his authority as governor. Viesca joined several others in advocating a plan to attack centralist troops in Matamoros. They hoped this Matamoros Expedition would inspire other federalist states to revolt and keep the bored Texian troops from deserting the army. Most importantly, it would move the war zone outside of Texas. The governor initially supported the plan, and asked Houston to organize the expedition; Houston appointed James Bowie to lead the expedition, but Bowie did not receive his orders for several weeks. The Council asked Burleson, the commander of the volunteers at Bexar, to lead the expedition. Burleson had already resigned, and his elected replacement, Johnson, instead received the message. While Johnson journeyed to San Felipe to meet with the Council, on December 30, Johnson's aide-de-camp, James Grant led 200 men from Béxar to travel to Goliad to prepare for the expedition. Only 100 Texians remained at the Alamo Mission in Bexar, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel James C. Neill. Neill was disgusted that Johnson had stripped the Alamo of almost all provisions and the majority of the men and sent a strong message to Houston asking for reinforcements and more supplies.\n\nAlthough Bowie also appeared before the Council with his written orders from Houston to lead the Matamoros Expedition, on January 6 the Council authorized Johnson to lead the expedition. Johnson initially declined the commission, but changed his mind the following day. Without revoking Johnson's commission, the Council elected Fannin to lead the mission instead. Smith was incensed when he learned the Council had appointed their own commander for the expedition, and he became even more angry when Houston forwarded the letter from Neill, with an added note that he believed the Johnson mission was illegal, as the council had not had a quorum when it was authorized. By now, both Smith and Houston had decided that the expedition had little chance of success.\n\nSmith denounced the expedition as idiocy and labelled its supporters either fools or traitors. He then disbanded the council until March 1 unless they agreed to renounce the Matamoros Expedition. The council determined that Smith had no authority to dismiss them. They soon impeached Smith and named the lieutenant governor, Robinson, Acting Governor. The documents forming the provisional government, however, did not grant the council the authority to impeach the governor.\n\nOn January 12, Smith wrote a conciliatory letter to the council: \"I admit that I [used] language beyond the rules of decorum\", and declared that if the council would admit that their actions regarding the Matamoros Expedition were wrong he would reinstate them so that \"the two branches [would] again harmonize to the promotion of the true interests of the country\". Weary of the infighting and unsure who was actually in charge, Council members slowly stopped appearing. In the hopes of salvaging a government, Robinson appointed four members to an Advisory Committee. Soon, this dwindled to only two members. The interim government was essentially over by the end of January.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45559076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45559076", "title": "Dennis Keeney", "text": "Dennis Keeney\n\nDennis R. Keeney (born July 2, 1937) is an American scientist in soil science and water chemistry. He was the first director of the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture in Ames, Iowa.\n\nKeeney grew up on his family's dairy farm near Runnells, Iowa not far from Des Moines.\nHe graduated from Iowa State University (ISU) with a B.S. in agronomy. He studied soil science at University of Wisconsin and obtained an M.S., followed by a Ph.D. in agronomy and biochemistry from Iowa State University.\n\nKeeney became a professor of agronomy, and stayed on as faculty member in soils and water chemistry for more than 20 years.\n\nIn 1987, the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture was established at ISU, and in 1988 he became its first director. The Leopold Center developed research studies and teaching about the environmental impacts of farming, sustainable agriculture, preservation of natural resources, including soil and water quality, and rural community development. Keeney defined sustainable agriculture as \"It means using the resources we have wisely. Probably number one to conserve the soil resource, the water resource, and the land resource. It's a Leopold concept really, because Leopold talked about land as the water, the air, the soil, and the animals living on it.\"\nAlready in 1988 Keeney examined the energy balance of ethanol fuel as a \"renewable\" fuel and concluded, that more energy was required to produce ethanol than was retrieved from it then. Keeney retired from the Leopold Center in 1999. He was suucceeded by Fred Kirschenmann.\n\nWith the corn ethanol industry rapidly expanding between 2000 and 2005, in what Keeney called \"...an \"irrational exuberance\" trip with biofuels\" he was one of few Iowa scientists looking at water consumption. In 2009, Keeney published his latest peer-reviewed paper on the \"Environmental, social, economic, and food issues brought on by the rapidly expanding ethanol-from-corn industry in the United States\". he has continued to publicly question its benefits.\n\nHe was president of the Soil Science Society of America and the American Society of Agronomy.\n\nIn February 2015 his memoir “The Keeney Place: A Life in the Heartland” was published after nine years of work. The book title refers to the fact that per Keeney \"the farm you grew up on, at least for a couple of generations, was named after the family that lived there. It became a sense of place that we really miss, because now agriculture is large corporate farms that have no sense of place. It’s a way of life that is largely gone.\"\n\nKeeney has published over 140 peer reviewed papers on soil and water quality research.\n\n"}
{"id": "908579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908579", "title": "Deputy minister", "text": "Deputy minister\n\nDeputy minister is a title borne by politicians or officials in certain countries governed under a parliamentary system. In some countries a \"Deputy minister\" is a junior minister, who is assigned to assist a specific cabinet minister.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "613154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=613154", "title": "Donation Land Claim Act", "text": "Donation Land Claim Act\n\nThe Donation Land Claim Act of 1850, sometimes known as the Donation Land Act, was a statute enacted in late 1850 by the United States Congress. It was intended to promote homestead settlements in the Oregon Territory. The law, a forerunner of the later Homestead Act, brought thousands of white settlers into the new territory, swelling the ranks of settlers traveling along the Oregon Trail. 7,437 land patents were issued under the law, which expired in late 1855.\n\nThe passage of the law was largely due to the efforts of Samuel R. Thurston, the Oregon territorial delegate to Congress. The act, which became law on 27 September 1850, granted of designated areas free of charge to every unmarried white male citizen eighteen or older and to every married couple arriving in the Oregon Territory before 1 December 1850. In the case of a married couple, the husband and wife each owned half of the total grant under their own names. The law was one of the first that allowed married women in the United States to hold property under their own name. \"American half-breed Indians\" were also eligible for the grant. A provision in the law granted half the amount to those who arrived after the 1850 deadline but before 1854. Claimants were required to live on the land and to cultivate it for four years to own it outright.\n\nThe provisional government formed at Champoeg had limited the land claims offered in the hope of preventing land speculation. The Organic Act of the Oregon Territory had granted 640 acres (2.6 km²) to each married couple. The new law voided the previous statutes but essentially continued the same policy and was worded in such a way as to legitimize existing claims. One such claim legitimized by the act was that of George Abernethy, who had been elected to the governorship in the days of the provisional government. His claim became famous for Abernethy Green, where new emigrants camped at the end of the Oregon Trail while seeking a piece of land for themselves.\n\nClaims under the law were granted at the federal land office in Oregon City. The most famous patent granted at the Oregon City Land Office was the plat for the city of San Francisco, which had to be sent up the coast from California by ship. The claims of the land were surveyed by the Surveyor General of Oregon, an office created out of the law. As part of the general survey, the Willamette Stone was placed just west of Portland, defining the Willamette Meridian.\n\nAfter the 1854 cut-off date, the designated land in Oregon was no longer free but was still available, selling at $1.25 an acre ($3.09/hectare), with a limit of 320 acres (1.3 km²) in any one claim. The law expired on December 1, 1855. In the following years, the price was raised and the maximum size of claims was progressively lowered. \n\nIn 1862, Congress passed the first of the \"Homestead Acts,\" which was largely designed to encourage settlement of the Great Plains states, but applied to Oregon as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57193247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57193247", "title": "Emergency Mobile Alert", "text": "Emergency Mobile Alert\n\nEmergency Mobile Alerts (EMA) is an alerting network in New Zealand designed to disseminate emergency alerts to mobile devices. Emergency Mobile Alerts are messages about emergencies sent by New Zealand authorised emergency agencies to capable mobile phones. The alerts are sent to participating wireless providers who will distribute the alerts to their customers with compatible devices via Cell Broadcast, a technology best suitable for public warning as it simultaneously delivers messages to all phones using a Mobile Cell tower. Similar solutions are implemented in the USA (Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA)), The Netherlands,(NL-Alert), European Union (EU-Alert), Canada, Japan, Taiwan, Chile, Philippines.\n\nMany countries have implemented location-based alert systems based on Cell Broadcast. The alert messages to the population, already broadcast by various media, are relayed over the mobile network using cell broadcast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51090807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51090807", "title": "Emergency notification app", "text": "Emergency notification app\n\nAn emergency notification app is a software application designed to broadcast emergency notifications to one or multiple groups of contacts via various delivery methods. It is built to run on mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers. An emergency notification app may be part of a wider emergency notification system or it may be provided as an alternative to such a system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12962622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12962622", "title": "FAA 1600.2", "text": "FAA 1600.2\n\nFAA 1600.2 is a United States government standard entitled Safeguarding Controls and Procedures for Classified National Security Information and Sensitive Unclassified Information. It was introduced for use by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).\n\nIt has to be conformed with national policy linked to the physical security of the aviation infrastructure. It includes leased and owned facilities, the security of all information related with operation of the FAA and aircraft operations, and personnel security. The FAA has to protect own information to which it has access.\n\n"}
{"id": "18259367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18259367", "title": "Financial Security Law of France", "text": "Financial Security Law of France\n\nThe Financial Security Law of France (known in France as LSF or Loi de sécurité financière), signed by the Minister of Finance, Francis Mer, was adopted by the French Parliament on July 17, 2003 in order to strengthen the legal provisions relating to corporate governance. The LSF was published in OJ No. 177, August 2, 2003 (No. 2003-706 dated August 1, 2003).\n\nSimilar to the American Sarbanes–Oxley Act, the Financial Security Law of France rests mainly on: \n"}
{"id": "935876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=935876", "title": "Forest Guerrillas", "text": "Forest Guerrillas\n\nForest Guerrillas () was a Finnic resistance movement formed by some of the inhabitants of the parishes of Repola and Porajärvi in addition to several White Guard volunteers after their territory was ceded to Bolshevist Russia in the Treaty of Tartu of 1920. The conflict is known as the East Karelian Uprising. The 2,000 \"metsäsissi\" forces managed to capture large parts of East Karelia during their rebellion against their Russian rulers in 1921, aiming to unite these areas with the newly formed Republic of Finland. Ultimately, however, in 1922 the rebel forces withdrew into Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "34393869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34393869", "title": "Frederick Hinde Zimmerman", "text": "Frederick Hinde Zimmerman\n\nFrederick Hinde Zimmerman (October 17, 1864 – September 21, 1924) was an American banker, farmer, real estate entrepreneur, businessman, and hotel owner. Due to his large land holdings and expertise in farming Zimmerman became a notable farmer, breeder, and real estate entrepreneur during his life. Zimmerman's farm, originally purchased by his grandfather Thomas S. Hinde from the federal government in 1815, included the Grand Rapids Dam, Hanging Rock, and Buttercrust. His first experience running a business was in 1883 when he ran a grocery store in Fort Smith, Arkansas with his cousin Harry Hinde. Many of Zimmerman's businesses centered on his family farm, but in later years Zimmerman achieved success through his ownership and investment in mines, banks, and real estate. He also owned or invested in the Hanging Rock and Grand Rapids Dam Farm Company, the Grand Rapids Hotel Park Company, and the Wabash Bull-Frog Mines Company.\n\nZimmerman was among the fourth generation of the Hinde family in the United States that was begun by his great-grandfather Dr. Thomas Hinde. His grandfather Thomas S. Hinde was a prominent politician and Methodist minister who contributed to the development of Illinois, Indiana, and the spread of the Methodist faith. His father Jacob Zimmerman held various political offices in the state of Illinois and in his early years owned several prominent Democratic newspapers in Ohio and Illinois right before the Civil War. At the age of one, Zimmerman's mother died and he was sent away to live with family in Ohio and did not see his father again until he was fourteen. Towards the end of his life, Zimmerman was elected to various positions of leadership in the Knights of Pythias and Illinois Farmers Institute. He was elected secretary of the Illinois Farmers Institute for multiple terms. During Zimmerman's life he managed banks, his family farm in Mount Carmel Precinct, Wabash County, Illinois, the Grand Rapids Hotel near the Grand Rapids Dam, and invested in numerous business ventures. \nThe Grand Rapids Hotel was one of his most notable accomplishments and soon after opening in 1922 attracted tourists from across the United States. The hotel was one of the largest resorts in the Wabash Valley and at one time had fishing, trap shoots, baseball, golf, boating, swimming, a restaurant, and many other recreational activities. The hotel promoted the growth of the region by increasing the number of tourists and by hosting many large-scale meetings and public events like celebrations at Hallowe'en, Christmas, and the Fourth of July. He died unexpectedly from complications of a broken hip that he suffered near the Grand Rapids Hotel in 1924 after falling out of his Model T automobile. Five years after Zimmerman died, the hotel was burned to the ground. During the summer of 1929, Glenn Goodart, then manager of the hotel, burned down the hotel by dropping a blowtorch in the basement. The hotel was not rebuilt due to a lack of funds and the onset of the Great Depression.\n\nFrederick Hinde Zimmerman was born on his family farm in the Mount Carmel Precinct, Wabash County, Illinois on October 17, 1864, towards the end of the American Civil War. He was the second child of the Honorable Jacob Zimmerman, an Illinois congressman and politician from a wealthy family, and Belinda Hinde, a member of the prominent Hinde family and the daughter of Rev. Thomas S. Hinde, the founder of Mount Carmel. His parents met and were married in Marshall, Illinois while his father ran a newspaper and his mother lived with her sister Martha Hinde and her husband Judge Charles H. Constable. During the Civil War, Zimmerman's father and uncles grew tobacco and operated mills on their family's farm, a portion of which was located on the Wabash River and included Hanging Rock, Buttercrust (a natural sandbar on the Wabash River), and the Grand Rapids Dam. His mother's family were large landowners in Mount Carmel and Wabash County, and the majority of the land had been purchased by Thomas S. Hinde in 1815 from the federal government. Originally, the family farm had belonged to Zimmerman's mother and her siblings, but his father purchased their interests. Zimmerman's father was able to purchase the Hinde farm because he had become wealthy through his ownership of various newspapers in the preceding years. His father lived on the farm near the Grand Rapids Dam from 1860 until moving to a 160-acre farm in the southwestern part of Friendsville, Illinois in 1903.\n\nZimmerman initially grew up in Mount Carmel, but when his mother Belinda Hinde died unexpectedly in 1865, his father sent him to live with family in Ohio. His father owned newspapers in Marshall, Illinois, and in Mount Carmel, Illinois, but by the time Zimmerman was born, he had retired from the newspaper business to focus on running the Hinde family farm and on politics. Based on an entry in Edmund C. Hinde's diaries, Zimmerman's uncle, judge Charles H. Constable, and then his mother died from morphine overdoses that may have resulted from an addiction to the drug developed during the Civil War. Shortly after the death of his mother Belinda, Zimmerman's older brother Charles died at the age of four in Wabash County, Illinois. Zimmerman stayed with his father's sisters in Ohio on a farm his grandfather Henry Zimmerman had purchased from the Wyandot Indians in the 1840s until his father married Emma Harris in 1875. Three years after the remarriage his father was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives as a Democrat in 1878 and served two full terms until 1882. In 1879, aged fourteen, he returned to the family farm in Wabash County, Illinois to live with his father and step mother. Zimmerman graduated from high school in Mount Carmel, Illinois, and then worked on the family farm near the Grand Rapids Dam from 1879 until 1883, where he oversaw the farming operations and raised livestock. During his youth, Zimmerman was commonly called \"Freddie\" or \"Freddie boy\" by his family and close friends.\n\nIn 1883, at the age of nineteen, Zimmerman and his cousin Harry Hinde were invited by Zimmerman's uncle Edmund C. Hinde to move to Fort Smith, Arkansas, where Hinde lived following his return from the California Gold Rush. After moving to Fort Smith, they owned and operated a grocery store from 1883 to 1886. Judge Isaac Parker at this time was in the process of eradicating the brothels, saloons, and outlaws that had taken over Fort Smith through increased public hangings and stiffer criminal penalties and this general lawless environment made operation of the grocery store difficult. This period in the history of Fort Smith, Arkansas has been memorialized in the novel \"True Grit\", and the two movies it inspired, \"True Grit\" (1969) and \"True Grit\" (2010). The grocery store was a failure, and they were forced to sell the business and return to Mount Carmel, Illinois, but Zimmerman remained close to his cousin Harry Hinde, who later was elected to the Missouri House of Representatives, operated several businesses, and speculated in real estate. In later years, along with their uncle Charles T. Hinde, they invested in real estate and mines in New Mexico. The New Mexico properties only returned modest profits but were kept in the family until the 1950s.\n\nAfter the failure of the grocery store in Arkansas in 1886, Zimmerman returned to the family farm and became a gentleman farmer. After Zimmerman returned, his father gave a small acreage of the Hinde farm to Zimmerman's half brother John H. Zimmerman, who raised pigs and farmed the acreage until he sold the property to Zimmerman several years later. Zimmerman was given title to the Hinde family farm by his father on July 13, 1902 after he married Agnes Oldendorf (1872–1922). Agnes was the daughter of Peter and Mary S. Oldendorf who ran a music business and were retail liquor dealers in Mount Carmel. The brother of Zimmerman's wife, Charles Oldendorf, who served as mayor of Mount Carmel, Illinois during the late 1890s, encouraged Zimmerman to join the fraternal organization the Knights of Pythias. In 1906, Zimmerman became chancellor commander of the Knights of Pythias lodge in Wabash County, Illinois and was a Captain in the uniform rank of the order.\n\nAfter receiving title to the Hinde family farm in 1902, Zimmerman built a house for his young family near the Grand Rapids Dam. Once construction of the new home was completed Zimmerman used two horse teams and numerous men to lift his father's old home near the river and move it to higher ground closer to his new home. The couple had two children, Rebecca Zimmerman in 1901 and Peter Jacob Hinde Zimmerman in 1903. Zimmerman and his wife raised their children in the Methodist faith and they attended school in Mount Carmel. From his son's early years Zimmerman trained him to operate the farm land and livestock. His son won many awards in livestock shows. Following Zimmerman's death in 1924, ownership of the Grand Rapids Hotel was divided equally between his children. They owned the hotel until it was burned down in 1929 by hotel manager Glenn Goodart under suspicious circumstances.\n\nIn 1901, Zimmerman was elected secretary of the Illinois Farmers' Institute, a position he held for three years. His father also held leadership positions with the Illinois Farmers' Institute and frequently gave speeches on good farming practices, the origin of soils, the road system, and climatic influence on plants. Meetings during his tenure as secretary averaged 350 participating members and a yearlong membership in 1901 cost $71.99. The district director stated that during the tenure of Zimmerman and the other officers they made the institute, \"...look very attractive after they fixed it up with flags and bunting.\" At this time the institute members and Zimmerman were followers of the Grangers Movement, which put emphasis on families to band together to promote the economic and political well-being of the community and agriculture.\n\nZimmerman was well known for raising some of the finest trotting horses in Southern Illinois, and many of his horses were noted for their dressage ability. Zimmerman also operated a successful livestock operation that focused on raising specialty hogs and cattle. He was noted nationally as a breeder and owner of Holstein-Fresian cows by the Holstein-Friesian Association of America. Three of his Holstein cows (Netherland Gem Segis, Kosa Beat Segis, and Vickery de Kol Korndyke) were listed among the best known of the breed in herd and pedigree listings. For a short time Zimmerman and his father raised registered Shropshire sheep primarily for meat, at the family farm near the Grand Rapids Dam. Some of their Shropshire sheep were listed on the American Shropshire Registry, which was a national register for the highest quality sheep of the breed. Zimmerman's son lived on the family farm his entire life and in later years was elected to various public offices in Wabash County Illinois. Like his father, he continued the tradition of raising specialty hogs and cattle. Both men continually expanded the family land holdings and diversified the farming operations.\n\nIn the early 1900s Zimmerman began to invest in other business ventures and strengthen his relationship with his uncle Captain Charles T. Hinde who at that time was living in Coronado, California, and was vice president of the Speckels Brothers Commercial Company in San Diego. Some of Zimmerman's more notable businesses were a coal mine in Indiana, a few mines in the western United States, and a company he co-owned, named the Wabash Bull-Frog Mines Company in Nevada and Arizona, which he invested in from August 1905. Zimmerman's father owned many coal mines in Illinois and Indiana, so in his later years, Zimmerman also invested in some of them. Zimmerman also served on the board of directors of multiple banks in the Midwest, and owned a substantial interest in The First National Bank in Mount Carmel, Illinois.\nZimmerman's primary business at this time was his management of the Grand Rapids Dam and Hanging Rock Farms Company, which was organized to manage the farming operations of the family farm and the increasing number of tourists visiting its Grand Rapids Dam and Hanging Rock sections. The Grand Rapids Dam created favorable fishing conditions, which attracted large numbers of people. Zimmerman also opened a small shop near the dam that sold goods and fishing equipment to tourists, rented boats, and conducted tours. Nick Garrett, originally a hired hand on the Zimmerman farm, managed the store for the Zimmerman family.\n\nZimmerman's uncle Captain Charles T. Hinde, a shipping magnate who played an important role in the development of Southern California through his various investments with John D. Spreckels and E. S. Babcock, mentored Zimmerman in business strategies. Specifically, Zimmerman and Hinde discussed the Hotel del Coronado investment, which Hinde had contributed to in the late 1880s. Over the years Zimmerman often traveled to Coronado, California to visit Hinde.\n\nWhen Hinde died in 1915, he left Zimmerman and Harry Hinde a substantial portion of his estate. Adjusting for inflation, Zimmerman inherited millions from the estate. After the estate was settled in 1917, Zimmerman decided to use his portion of the money to establish a hotel and resort on the Hinde family farm next to the Grand Rapids Dam; before he could start, he had to wait for the conclusion of World War I. Construction of the hotel likely began sometime in 1919 or 1920 and continued until the hotel was completed on August 7, 1922. A few months after the opening of the hotel, Zimmerman's wife, Agnes, died. The hotel, which was easy to access due to the railroad and Wabash River, was an immediate success and attracted people from across the country. It was advertised in many of the leading national newspapers in the United States, and eventually expanded into a full resort with golf, baseball, trap shoots, boating, and many other activities.\n\nZimmerman chose hired laborer O.L. Rapson, who had worked at the family farm and lived in a small house next to his, as The Grand Rapids Hotel's first manager. He was fired in 1924 after the sudden death of Zimmerman and replaced by Rapson's friend Glenn Goodart at the request of Zimmerman's children. In 1929, Goodart burned the hotel to the ground by dropping a blowtorch in its basement shop; it was not rebuilt due to the onset of the Great Depression and a lack of available funds.\n\nA few weeks before Zimmerman's death in 1924, he suffered a stroke. He died after an eventful day at the annual fair in Mount Carmel as he was returning to his farm at the Grand Rapids Dam on September 21, 1924. Before returning to his residence, Zimmerman, with his children, stopped by the Grand Rapids Hotel to check on the daily business. As he exited the car driven by his son, he fell and broke his hip. Even though he was treated for his injuries by Dr. G.S. Couch, Zimmerman died the next day. According to his obituary, Zimmerman died of \"hardening of the arteries.\" In his will, he left roughly seventy-five percent of his estate to his son and about twenty-five percent to his daughter. Some of the bank stock in The First National Bank in Mount Carmel, Illinois, Zimmerman left to his daughter caused her severe financial hardships due to the bank's failure during the Great Depression.\n\nZimmerman is buried at Rose Hill Cemetery in Mount Carmel, Illinois. The burial site is located next to his father Jacob Zimmerman, his wife Agnes Zimmerman, and his longtime friend and farm hand Nick Garrett.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4815607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4815607", "title": "Hong Kong handover ceremony", "text": "Hong Kong handover ceremony\n\nThe handover ceremony of Hong Kong in 1997 officially marked the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the People's Republic of China. It was an internationally televised event with the ceremony commencing on the night of 30 June 1997 and finishing on 1 July 1997. The ceremony was held at the new wing of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (HKCEC) in Wan Chai.\n\nFor the People's Republic of China\n\nFor the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland\n\n\n\nIn 2005, the British \"Mail on Sunday\" revealed Prince Charles's memorandum, of which \"Clarence House said only 11 copies were made, circulated to close friends\", where he referred to the transfer as the \"Great Chinese Takeaway\" and the Chinese officials as \"appalling old waxworks\". In another reported extract, Prince Charles described the ceremony as an \"awful Soviet-style\" performance and dismissed the speech by President Jiang Zemin as \"propaganda\", complete with loud cheering \"by the bussed-in party faithful at the suitable moment in the text.\" He also ridiculed the People's Liberation Army's goose-steps in the ceremony and claimed his trip on HMY \"Britannia\" out of Hong Kong was closely watched by Chinese warships.\n\n"}
{"id": "41124206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41124206", "title": "Indigenous food security in Canada", "text": "Indigenous food security in Canada\n\nThe 1996 World Food Summit stated that food security \"exists when all people, at all times, have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life\" For many Indigenous communities in Canada there is an issue with one or more of aspects of food security. There are many factors that influence food security such as location, level of income, and the climate.\n\nIndigenous peoples are at a higher risk than non-Indigenous peoples to experience food insecurity. Indigenous people have approximately double the chances of a non-Indigenous person to experience some aspect of food insecurity in their lifetime. Food insecurity is directly linked to being in a low-income household. Indigenous people on average experience lower socioeconomic status than non-Indigenous peoples. Since there is no program to incentivise healthy foods in Canada, there is a greater incentive for Indigenous persons to purchase processed foods, which can lead to serious health problems. Foods purchased in grocery stores have become increasingly important to all people but even more so to remote Indigenous communities. The price of foods in grocery stores is also a focal point in food insecurity for Indigenous peoples. In one community it was the consensus that the price of market foods in a northern community are very high and that there needs to be government-implemented policies that will help lower the cost of food in more remote locations. The prevalence of food insecurity is also higher in Inuit households with as much as 80% of families experiencing food insecurity. The high cost of food for Inuit families is also a large concern. In a study conducted it was found that a basket of food for a family of four in Igloolik was $551 and the cost of for the same amount of food for a family in Montreal was $238.\n\nThere are many factors that influence the accessibility and availability of food choices. Accessibility and availability of food are the most important aspects of food security. Indigenous food security may be negatively affected by loss of traditional hunting practices. The food supply that comes from hunting and fishing could be declining due to the access to the land and hunting territories. The cost of food is also a determining factor in food availability. The high cost of food maybe a serious issue for low-income families. A talking circle to obtain information firsthand from Indigenous communities about the accessibility to healthy food was conducted in a small northern Ontario community and gives a clearer picture of the reality that these Indigenous families go through to obtain food. The circle concluded there is disconnect with traditional food practices and the younger community that needs to be acknowledged. He stated that the food that the community eats now is causing poor physical and mental health. Other barriers for obtaining a steady diet of traditional food include hunting equipment costs, transportation, and a lack of knowledgeable hunters and fishers are just some of the reasons consumption of traditional food has proven to be difficult. The use of land using non-traditional techniques, such as those found in mining and logging, affect the availability of appropriate food sources. The main concern of the community was the loss of knowledge of traditional food practices between generations. Younger members of the community are not being taught to hunt, fish, gather or prepare the traditional foods that their ancestors ate and that are integral to a strong and healthy community. Increased development also leads to changing animal migration patterns as well as decrease in animal population and this again will influence the amount of land-based food that can be obtained through traditional ways. The location of an Indigenous community has a large impact on the prevalence of food insecurity in that particular place. Northern communities are at a greater disadvantage than Indigenous communities that are located close to urban centers. The price of market food is higher in more remote communities because of transportation costs. It should also be noted that certain Inuit communities are even more disadvantaged than others because climatic changes that affect hunting and fishing have only been recorded in certain communities.\n\nIn Nunavut the average life span is approximately 12 years lower than the average Canadian. This is for a number of reasons such as access to healthcare, lower average of socioeconomic standing, poor quality of housing, and the quality of basic services such as drinking water and affordable food. The studies done in this area are very limited but there has been some information collected. The project Climate Change and Health in Nunavik and Labrador looked at the impacts on health in these communities due to changing climates and access to land-based food sources such as fish, geese and seals. There is concern for the senior citizens in these communities because they cannot go and hunt for themselves but still rely on land-based sources of food. Food security for urban Indigenous people is also important to look at. Not having proper access to food can lead to a number of health issues such as low birth weights, developmental delays, depression, anxiety and suicide. These issues are already pressing in Indigenous communities and a lot could be done to help with more equal access to food. High rates of diabetes are a large indicator of the food that Indigenous people are ingesting. There has been a change in diet from traditional foods to European foods and medicine. The members of this northern Ontario Indigenous community stated their preference for wild meat and berries because they believe it is healthier than store-bought foods. The cost of food is also high unless the person is purchasing processed \"junk foods\". These types of foods can lead to a decline in physical health and this is not the preferred diet of a traditional Indigenous person. There are certain essential nutrients that are especially of concern in Indigenous diets: protein, zinc, vitamin D, iron, omega 3 fatty acids, and selenium. These influence a person’s physical health as well as their mental and emotional health. The caribou and other traditional foods are excellent sources of these nutrients.\n\nClimate change is a serious concern in Canada’s northern territories. This region has already felt the impacts of the change of environment on their food supply. There are very distinctive Indigenous cultural groups in the north and they are the Yukon First Nation, Dene, Metis, Gwich’in, and Inuit. Approximately 70% of Indigenous adults in the North hunt and fish as a means of sustenance and 96% of those adults rely on the food they receive from natural resources. Climate change has been found to have an impacts on the movement of animals and the hunting conditions. Sea ice travel is a main component of hunting for Inuit people. They must travel across ice roads to gain access to wildlife resources. If the ice is not as strong or does not reach as far than this results in less hunting time and a lesser chance of bringing home a substantial amount of food. The implications of less hunting time have a severe effect on the nutritional value of the Inuit diet. The decreased ice road time also hinders the delivery of market foods and increases the price of these staples when other modes of transportation (such as flying) have to be employed. Other weather conditions such as increased winds, higher rainfall records, decreased snowfall, lack of extreme cold temperatures, increased coastal erosion, decreased animal population growth and lower fresh water levels all contribute to food insecurity in certain northern Inuit communities. Establishing a community based food supply is a viable option for northern and remote Indigenous communities because it ensures that everyone is meeting the nutritional needs that are essential for survival. These communities need to adapt to the changing environment or their food security will decline substantially.\n"}
{"id": "13957856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13957856", "title": "Kirill Formanchuk", "text": "Kirill Formanchuk\n\nKirill Formanchuk is an activist for motorists' rights in Yekaterinburg, Russia. On October 12, 2007, he suffered severe injuries from a beating while in police custody, which has led to increased public and media scrutiny of traffic police in a number of Russian cities.\n\nHe was a member of the Committee to Protect the Rights of Motorists, an activist group. He was previously employed by the Yekaterinburg municipal government.\n\nPrior to the attack, Formanchuk had achieved local notoriety by challenging the lawfulness of traffic patrol stops, which are widely perceived in Russia to be corrupt and motivated by a desire for bribes. Formanchuk repeatedly refused to bribe traffic patrol officers, instead challenging them on their knowledge of traffic regulations and other laws governing traffic stops.\n\nAccording to Formanchuk, he went to a police station on October 12, 2007 to register his car. He attempted to record video of his interaction with the officers, which he says infuriated them. He was subsequently attacked. Formanchuk did not positively identify his attackers as police officers, but he alleges that officers on duty did nothing to restrain the attackers.\n\nThe police allege that Formanchuk became belligerent in the police station, was arrested, and suffered his injuries when he instigated a fight with the other occupants of his jail cell.\n\nFormanchuk was hospitalized after the attack, which caused injuries to his skull and brain.\n\nAfter Formanchuk's beating became public, motorists' groups in Yekaterinburg, St. Petersburg, and Moscow held demonstrations against the police. An Internet posting in support of Formanchuk has received over 200,000 hits. State-run media, which is usually reluctant to air criticism of government authorities, has begun to focus on Formanchuk's story, with one channel referring to his treatment as \"outrageous.\"\n\nThe Yekaterinburg edition of Rossiyskaya Gazeta, the official government newspaper, cited Formanchuk's situation while admonishing law enforcement services to be more cooperative with motorists.\n\nLaw enforcement officials denied any involvement with Formanchuk's beating and accused Formanchuk's activist group of inciting the public against the police. They further alleged that Formanchuk is a draft dodger with many serious traffic violations.\n\nFormanchuk nowadays also acts as a senator in civil Ekaterinburg Senate aimed at providing public control for official authorities. He focuses on automobile-related affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39154569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39154569", "title": "LGBT rights in the Federal District (Brazil)", "text": "LGBT rights in the Federal District (Brazil)\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Federal District, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\nOn 1 December 2012, the \"Court of Public Registers\" of the Brazilian Federal District (DF), ruled that, effective immediately, same-sex marriage licenses should be granted without a judge's intervention.\n\nChanging one's name and sex is legal in the Federal District.\n"}
{"id": "29319325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29319325", "title": "Liberty Central", "text": "Liberty Central\n\nLiberty Central is a non-profit conservative political advocacy group founded in 2009 by Virginia Thomas, the wife of U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justice, Clarence Thomas. Virginia Thomas is the President and CEO. \n\nIts declared purpose is stated on its website as \"America’s Public Square. We Listen. We Inspire. We Activate ... to secure the blessings of liberty.\" The organization was promoted at the 2010 Conservative Political Action Conference as \"an online community for those seeking to \"preserve freedom and reaffirm the core founding principles.\" Ed Morrissey, a prominent conservative blogger who runs Hotair.com, said the Liberty Central site would provide education in history and the Constitution for tea party activists.\n\nThe group was founded with seed money of $550,000 coming from two donors whose names were undisclosed. In a February 2011 article, \"Politico\" reported that the initial $500,000 contribution came from Dallas real estate investor and conservative philanthropist Harlan Crow\n\nLiberty Central activities have included hosting a live web cast on October 20, 2010, in conjunction with the Family Research Council to protest the January 2011 expiration of tax cuts that were passed in 2001 and 2003.\n\nAccording to United Press International, the Liberty Central group has been highly critical of U.S. President Barack Obama.\n\nThomas has been criticized for her involvement in Liberty Central because someone who contributes to the group may have a case before the Supreme Court. However, there is no law limiting what Thomas can do, and according to some legal experts Supreme Court Justices are not required to recuse themselves from cases where they may have a conflict of interest.\n\nOn October 21, 2010, Thomas was specifically criticized for taking a position, via Liberty Central, on an issue that was likely to come before the Supreme Court - whether the 2010 health care legislation was unconstitutional. A memo signed by Thomas that called for the repeal of the law and that was posted on the Liberty Central website was removed following the criticism. A Liberty Central spokesperson explained that Thomas had not personally reviewed the memo and that it been mistakenly approved by a staff member, and had been circulated by another group, the Conservative Action Project.\n\n"}
{"id": "3615272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615272", "title": "Local Government Association", "text": "Local Government Association\n\nThe Local Government Association (LGA) is an organisation which comprises local authorities in England and Wales. The LGA seeks to promote better local government; it maintains communication between officers in different local authorities to develop best practice. It also represents the interests of local government to national government. 435 authorities are members of the LGA as of 2016, including 349 English councils (out of 352) and the 22 Welsh councils via the Welsh LGA, as well number of smaller authorities including fire authorities and national parks. The Chief Executive is Mark Lloyd.\n\nThe LGA was formed on 1 April 1997, in the middle of the 1990s UK local government reform which created unitary authorities. The association is the direct successor to several peer-type associations, most recently the Association of County Councils, the Association of District Councils and the Association of Metropolitan Authorities. There continue to be Special Interest Groups within the LGA representing groups of authorities. These are largely per-type— the County Councils Network, the District Councils' Network, the Special Interest Group of Municipal Authorities, and UNISIG, representing Unitary Authorities, but also include groups for coastal authorities, authorities with high ethnicity, and authorities with sparse populations, among others.\n\n\n\nThe LGA was part of a wider Local Government Group that also comprised:\n\n\nThese bodies worked with local government organisations (regardless of whether they are LGA members) with the objective of strengthening local government's capabilities and providing support for specific issues that are of widespread importance to local government, for example national pay bargaining. The members of the Local Government Group were rebranded in July 2010 as part of the Local Government Group's 'Getting Closer' initiative. However, in 2011 the decision was taken by the association's new leadership to revert to the original LGA style and brand and by April 2012 the sister organisations had all been folded into the LGA as part of a wider efficiency and restructuring exercise.\n\nThe LGA has its Head Office at Local Government House (formerly Transport House) in Smith Square, Westminster, London. Its members are various types of English and Welsh local authorities, including county councils, metropolitan borough councils, London borough councils, non-metropolitan district councils and unitary authorities. The LGA does not cover parish and community councils, which are represented by the National Association of Local Councils and by One Voice Wales. In 2008 the Association published the National Improvement and Efficiency Strategy with the Department for Communities and Local Government (DCLG), which saw the creation of a stronger regional presence in the form of nine Regional Improvement and Efficiency Partnerships (RIEPs) which were given £185m of devolved funding from DCLG to drive improvement in local government.\n\nIn addition there are regional bodies such as London Councils (formerly the Association of London Government), Welsh Local Government Association, and Local authority leaders' boards in England outside of London, which bring together local authorities at the regional level. The regional groupings are:\n\n\nThe Welsh members are part of the affiliated Welsh Local Government Association, which is a constituent part of the LGA, but retains full autonomy in dealing with Welsh affairs. By contrast in Scotland the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities and in Northern Ireland the Northern Ireland Local Government Association are wholly distinct bodies with similar roles to those of the LGA in England and Wales.\n\nCombined authorities are a new form of voluntary association of councils which allow for a single transport authority, as well as power to exercise any function of its constituent councils that relates to economic development and regeneration. They also can receive certain delegated functions from central government in order to deliver transport and economic policy more effectively over a wider area. In some cases these have replaced regional bodies. Current combined authorities are:\n\n\nThe LGA is concerned about the effects of austerity on local government provision. The LGA said funding pressure and increasing demand for services like adult and children’s social care and support for homeless people, would leave English local services facing a £3.9bn funding deficit in 2019. Councils urge the chancellor to tackle the current funding crisis for local government in 2019/20 during the autumn budget, and to provide sustainable local government funding in the coming spending review.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36296465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36296465", "title": "Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights", "text": "Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights\n\nThe 1997 Maastricht Guidelines on Violations of Economic, Social and Cultural Rights build on the 1987 Limburg Principles on the Implementation of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and identify the legal implications of acts and omissions which are violations of economic, social and cultural rights. The guidelines were adopted by a group of over thirty experts who convened from 22–26 January 1997 in Maastricht on the occasion of the Limburg Principles' 10th anniversary. Three years later, the Maastricht Guidelines along with the Limburg Principles were reissued as UN document E/C.12/2000/13 by the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR).\n\nIn 1997, the International Commission of Jurists, the Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights, and the Centre for Human Rights of the Faculty of Law of Maastricht University assembled for another workshop on the 10th anniversary of the Limburg Principles attempting to determine the possibility of using a \"violations approach\" to help monitor the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). The assembly had three objectives: to have a better understanding of the concept of economic, social and cultural rights violations; to compile and classify types of violations of these rights; and to develop a set of guidelines which would help institutions in monitoring economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nIn total, 32 guidelines categorised under five sections make up the Maastricht Guidelines. These guidelines were agreed upon unanimously by the participants of the workshop, and were understood to reflect the development of international law since 1986. Section 1 emphasises the significance of economic, social and cultural rights; Section 2 examines obligations owed by states in their pursuit of realising economic, social and cultural rights, and lists particular acts and omissions which amount to violations; Section 3 declares that any violations are attributable to the state and must ensure that mechanisms to remedy violations are available to victims; Section 4 devotes its attention to victims of violations as their rights were not respected, protected and fulfilled, contrary to ICESCR; and Section 5 simply contains remedies and other possible responses to violations of rights.\n\nThis section and the five guidelines contained within it preface the rest of the guidelines found in the instrument by emphasising the growing importance of economic, social and cultural rights in the world. Guideline 1 notes that the gap between the rich and the poor had doubled in the previous three decades prior to this instrument's conception, and that such a disparity makes economic, social and cultural rights deceptive and difficult to obtain. Guideline 2 comments on the growing trend of reliance on the free market principle to resolve problems of human welfare, and that now more than ever, states must fulfil their obligations of protecting and promoting economic, social and cultural rights. Guideline 3 refers to examples of significant legal development regarding economic, social and cultural rights in Europe and in the Americas, and the optional protocols for both ICESCR and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) which allow for individual and collective complaints. Guideline 4 reaffirms that \"all human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent and interrelated\" as proclaimed under the fifth declaration of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action and would therefore mean that states are as responsible for economic, social and cultural rights as they are for civil and political rights. Guideline 5 states that although the considerations within the Guidelines primarily relate to ICESCR and are built upon the Limburg Principles, they are still relevant in \"the interpretation and application of other norms of international and domestic law in the field of economic, social and cultural rights.\"\n\nSection 2 not only examines obligations owed by states in their pursuit of realising economic, social and cultural rights, and lists violations; it also gives significance to a range of issues which relate to violations of economic, social and cultural rights, and places great importance to obligations which arise from ICESCR. Guideline 6 imposes obligations on states to respect, protect and fulfil economic, social and cultural rights. It then uses examples such as the right to housing, the right to health, and the right to work, to demonstrate how states may comply with those obligations and how they can also violate those obligations. Guideline 7 states that the duties to respect, protect and fulfil inherently contain the obligations of conduct and of result. Using the right to health as an example to show the nature of both obligations and how equal all human rights are. Guideline 8 allows states a 'margin of discretion' in implementing respective obligations. This legal doctrine takes into account cultural, religious, and historical differences between states who have the same obligations, but does not allow states to go below the 'universal minimum standard' of economic, social and cultural rights. Guidelines 9 and 10 determine that despite the relative wealth of a country, minimum core obligations are binding on all states to satisfy a minimum standard for each right in ICESCR. Guideline 10 expands upon this by stating that realisation of economic, social and cultural rights may depend on the availability of financial and material resources, but scarcity of resources does not relieve states of minimum obligations to implement such rights. Guideline 11 defines the nature of any human rights violation; and states that violations of economic, social and cultural rights can occur in various ways. It also outlines that the grounds of discrimination, both de jure and de facto, where they affect the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights, constitute a violation of ICESCR. Guideline 12 states that rights relating to women in ICESCR are compatible with the underlying principles of CEDAW, and is understood to require the elimination of discrimination arising from social and cultural disadvantages. Guideline 13 attempts to help distinguish the line between inability and unwillingness, and puts the burden of proof on the state to prove that it was unable to carry out its obligations for reasons beyond its control. Guideline 14 contains acts which constitute a violation of economic, social and cultural rights; these include acts committed by non-state actors which the state has some control over. Commentary on the Maastricht Guidelines indicate that although the acts listed in Guideline 14 are generic, they are premised by the fact that all human rights have positive and negative obligations. Guideline 15 lists ten violations which are worded generally to be made applicable in a broad range of situations and jurisdictions. All ten are positive obligations phrased in a negative manner as to qualify the omission of them as a violation of a state's duty in undertaking the realisation of economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nSection 3 assigns responsibility to states for violations which are set out under Section 2 of the Maastricht Guidelines. Guideline 16 establishes that violations occurring within a state's jurisdiction is imputable to that state, and that the state must have mechanisms in place to remedy and investigate violations, among other things. Guideline 17 acknowledges the possibility of states not being in effective control of territories, and therefore attributing the violation of economic, social and cultural rights to them would be seen as unfair; to get around this, Guideline 17 imposes the obligations found in Section 2 to the dominating power who has control over the territory. Guideline 18 emphasises that economic, social and cultural rights can also be violated by entities other than states; with which inaction of a state in regulating their conduct will attribute the responsibility for the violation to the state. Guideline 19 asserts that the obligation of states does not stop within their jurisdiction, but also extends to their participation in international organisations. Another obligation is imposed by Guideline 19 on states to ensure that policies and activities of international organisations do not commit any violations.\n\nSection 4 as a whole focuses on the victims as they are important in the interest to ensure that rights are respected, protected and fulfilled. Guideline 20 helps identify which groups and individuals are most vulnerable to suffer economic, social and cultural rights violations; in doing so, states can focus their attention to these groups which are most at risk. Guideline 21 relates directly to the obligations to respect and protect a person's economic, social and cultural rights; as punishing victims for their status which others have caused undermines their rights under ICESCR.\n\nSection 5 contains remedies and other appropriate responses to violations of rights. Guideline 22 provides that economic, social and cultural rights are justiciable, and that victims of these rights should have access to remedies in the domestic and international levels. Guideline 23 entitles victims to adequate remedies such as restitution, compensation, and rehabilitation. Guideline 24 states that common law courts should be careful in their judgements relating to violations of economic, social and cultural rights as not to sanction a violation of their respective state's international obligation. Guideline 25 encourages national institutions such as human rights commissions to address violations of economic, social and cultural rights as equally as they do violations of civil and political rights. Guideline 26 encourages states to incorporate international instruments into their legal system to enhance the scope and effectiveness of economic, social and cultural rights, as well as remedies for victims of violations. Guideline 27 urges states to develop measures which would ensure that no violators have any immunity from liability in breaching economic, social and cultural rights. Guideline 28 affirms a recommendation by the International Commission of Jurists in the Bangalore Declaration and Plan of Action 1995 stating;In order to achieve effective judicial and other remedies for victims ... the legal community generally should pay far greater attention to these violations in the exercise of their professions... Guideline 29 recommends the former United Nations Commission on Human Rights (now the United Nations Human Rights Council) to appoint special rapporteurs to strengthen mechanisms with respect to preventing and monitoring, among other things, violations of economic, social and cultural rights. Guideline 30 encourages states and international bodies to \"actively pursue the adoption of new standards...\" in relation to economic, social and cultural rights, as the state's obligations would be clearer if they adopted their own standards. Guideline 31 encourages the adoption of optional protocols for ICESCR, CEDAW, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) to better show the equality of all human rights. Guideline 32 encourages the active monitoring and documenting of violations of economic, social and cultural rights by all relevant actors in order to help everyone fully enjoy such rights.\n\nThe Maastricht Guidelines are used in the Handbook for National Human Rights Institutions which is a document released by the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to help promote the importance of economic, social and cultural rights. Academics interpret domestic legislation which provide for economic, social and cultural rights as complying with the Maastricht Guidelines in order to fully realise these class of rights; an example of this is the commentary on the South African Constitution with regards to socio-economic rights.\n\nThe Optional Protocols for ICESCR, CEDAW, and UNCRC have all been developed and adopted by a majority of states since 1997. These optional protocols are in line with Guidelines 3 and 31, where both guidelines intertwine to encourage the adoption of optional protocols which not only allow for individual and collective complaints, but also the equality and importance of all rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "8405782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8405782", "title": "Mace of the United States House of Representatives", "text": "Mace of the United States House of Representatives\n\nThe Mace of the United States House of Representatives, also called the Mace of the Republic is one of the oldest symbols of the United States government. It symbolises the governmental authority of the United States, and more specifically, the legislative authority of the House of Representatives.\n\nIn one of its first resolutions, the U.S. House of Representatives of the 1st Federal Congress (April 14, 1789) established the Office of the Sergeant at Arms. The resolution stated \"a proper symbol of office shall be provided for the Sergeant at Arms, of such form and device as the Speaker shall direct.\" The first Speaker of the House, Frederick Muhlenberg of Pennsylvania, approved the ceremonial mace as the proper symbol of the Sergeant at Arms in carrying out the duties of this office.\n\nThe current mace has been in use since December 1, 1842. It was created by New York silversmith William Adams, at a cost of $400 (equivalent to $ in ), to replace the first one that was destroyed when the Capitol Building was burned on August 24, 1814, during the War of 1812. A simple wooden mace was used in the interim.\n\nThe design of the mace is derived from an ancient battle weapon and the Roman fasces. The ceremonial mace is high and consists of 13 ebony rods—representing the original 13 states of the Union—bound together by silver strands criss-crossed over the length of the pole. Atop this shaft is a silver globe on which sits an intricately cast solid silver eagle.\nFor daily sessions of the House, the Sergeant carries the silver and ebony mace of the House in front of the Speaker, in procession to the rostrum. When the House is in session, the mace stands on a cylindrical pedestal of green marble to the Speaker's right. When the House is in committee, it is moved to a lowered position on a pedestal next to the Sergeant at Arms' desk, more or less out of sight. Thus, members entering the chamber know immediately whether the House is in session or in committee.\n\nIn accordance with the House Rules, on the rare occasion that a member becomes unruly, the Sergeant at Arms, upon order of the Speaker, lifts the mace from its pedestal and presents it before the offenders, thereby restoring order.\n\nSince the members are able to edit the \"Congressional Record\" before it goes to print, there is no mention of the actual use of the mace in this capacity. A recent recorded threat to present the mace was on July 29, 1994, when Rep. Maxine Waters interrupted Rep. Peter T. King on the floor of the House, although the mace was ultimately not presented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22851365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22851365", "title": "Melanesian Progressive Union", "text": "Melanesian Progressive Union\n\nThe Melanesian Progressive Union (, UPM) is a militant socialist pro-independence political party in New Caledonia. It is a component of the National Union for Independence, which in turn is one of the two components of the Kanak Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS).\n\nThe UPM was founded in 1974 by Melanesian supporters of the Caledonian Union who were opposed to the leader of the party, the white Maurice Lenormand. At first a Trotskyist political party close to the LCR in France, the party has since moderated to become a social democratic party. \n"}
{"id": "24124747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24124747", "title": "Messiah Foundation International", "text": "Messiah Foundation International\n\nMessiah Foundation International () (or MFI) is a spiritual organisation formally established in 2002 to promote the \"Goharian Philosophy of Divine Love\".\nMFI is the successor of RAGS International, a spiritual organisation founded by Pakistani spiritual leader Riaz Ahmed Gohar Shahi in 1980. The organisation claims to be a syncretic fulfilment of Christian, Muslim, Jewish and Hindu prophecy, with Shahi depicted as the messianic figure of many religions, given the title of Mehdi, Messiah, and Kalki Avatar as well as the generic \"Awaited One\" prophesied by other religions.\n\nAdherents propose to promote the reduction of hatred, promotion of divine love and world peace, and raise awareness of miraculous images of spiritual figures they claim are on the face of such objects as the moon, sun, and the Black Stone in Mecca. According to MFI, these images were put on these locations by God. The MFI purports that Gohar Shahi's image on the moon has spoken to people in different languages and rendered spiritual grace to those searching for divine love. They declare that the titles of the Messiah, Kalki Avatar and Imam Mehdi are different titles for one personality, whom they depict as Shahi.\nMembers of the MFI refer to themselves as \"Goharians\", due to their affiliation with Shahi.\n\n\"MFI\" was previously known as \"RAGS International\" until the year 2002, when Younus AlGohar became the CEO and formally established the organisation. At this time, AlGohar also formed MFI’s sister organisation, Kalki Avatar Foundation, under the apparent guidance of Shahi.\nAfter Shahi’s disappearance in 2001, Shahi’s followers in the MFI declared it to be akin to miraculous occultation and continued their activities under the leadership of AlGohar, who they claim is the personally appointed representative of Shahi. In June 2018, Shahi's daughter, Farah Naz, expressed her support of the MFI and was appointed the role of 'Guardian' of the MFI. \n\nThe organisation’s self-proclaimed objectives are to preach Shahi’s teachings of divine love and global peace. They consider it their responsibility to propagate alleged images of Shahi, Jesus Christ, Durga, and others on the Moon, Sun, and the Holy Black Stone in Mecca, which they say are \"divine signs\". Though MFI has not released an official count of its members, Younus AlGohar has stated that the number is in the thousands. \n\nShahi claimed to have met with Jesus Christ on the 29th of May 1997 in Taos, New Mexico. When asked about what was discussed between himself and Jesus, Shahi stated that it was secretive and would be revealed at \"an appropriate time\". After this incident, an image of Jesus Christ, which the photograph's owner claimed had appeared miraculously from pictures taken of sacred places, was shown to Shahi in Tucson, Arizona. It was then announced by Shahi to be the \"original image of Jesus Christ.\"\nThe MFI has taken this to mean Shahi has the support of Jesus Christ and propagates Jesus Christ as a \"universal figure of divinity\" who is for humanity rather than being confined to Christianity.\n\nThey profess to be peace-promoting. They condemn hate-preaching, especially in the context of religion. Their teachings, based on \"the Goharian Philosophy of Mystical Sciences and Divine Love\", are purported to be acceptable to all regardless of religious affiliation or nationality.\n\nAccording to their methodology, God’s love is implanted in the heart when one’s heart is initiated with God’s name. In this approach, the name of God is supposed to become synchronised within the heartbeats to produce \"divine energy\" which would then clean the heart and implant love of God so as to connect the aspirant with God. It is referred to Zikr-e-Qalb in Islamic terminology and \"Simran\" in Hindu terminology. The MFI claims to not be influenced by any one religion or faith and do not discriminate against anyone based on \"nation, religion, cast, creed\", etc.\nThe organisation purports that religions have both an inner dimension and outer. The teachings state that the outer part of the religion is the rituals and bodily worship while the inner religion is purification of the heart and souls to gain connection with God. In their beliefs, the inner religion is the core while the outer religion is like a \"potato skin\" Part of their claims is that the spiritual system within the religions today has diminished. They propose to \"convert the hearts towards divine love\" rather than to a particular religion. AlGohar asserts that because the MFI does not lay emphasis on rituals and worship, people from different religions can follow their teachings while practicing their own faith.\n\nThe MFI maintains that the world is passing through its twilight phase. Members propagate that the world is supposed to end in 2026, when a comet would collide with Earth in accordance with Shahi's predictions in \"The Religion of God\" They also declare that the only hope for humanity is Shahi and that his image they propagate to be on the Moon will provide salvation for humanity \"when calamity strikes\".\n\n\nBefore his disappearance, Shahi penned a book, \"Deen-e-Ilahi\" (literally \"the Religion of God\"). \"Deen-e-Ilahi\" explains secrets of spirituality as per the understanding of Shahi. On the front cover, Shahi states, \"This book requires unruffled concentration and attention, pondering and research from all religious sects and every man. It poses a challenge for those who reject the existence of Spirituality.\"\nOriginally \"Deen-e-Ilahi\" was written in Urdu, the native tongue of Shahi, however the book is available in English, Dutch, Arabic, French, German, Hindi, Italian, Persian, Portuguese, Sindhi, Spanish, Thai, and Tamil as well.\nMFI distributes the book for free and through Balboa Press, with whom they republished the book in English on May 17, 2012. As of June 29, 2012, it was #5 on the publisher's Best Seller's List.\n\"Deen-e-Ilahi\" is now banned in Pakistan, due to it allegedly carrying offensive material to Muslims.\n\nMFI has been opposed by religious groups particularly in Pakistan. Many cases, later proved false, have been instigated against Shahi. In regards to this subject, the following is written in \"The Religion of God\", written by Shahi:\nThe Wahhabi denomination has very religiously taken it to persecute, discourage, entrap and eradicate His Divine Eminence Gohar Shahi. Hence, they instigated various false cases against His Divine Eminence Gohar Shahi. They have been threatened by the universality of His Divine Eminence’s message of Divine Love, and His ever-increasing fame on the global sphere.\nThe government of Pakistan also banned \"The Religion of God\" and his magazine \"Hatif-e-Mehdi\" for allegedly \"...[containing] matter which is objectionable and maliciously intended to outrage the religious feelings of the Muslims and these should be seized\".\n\nAlGohar has also been persecuted by the government of Pakistan, having been issued a death sentence for allegedly blaspheming, though details of his blasphemy have not been disclosed.\n\nMessiah Foundation International claims that the Pakistani government has persecuted and jailed some 50 MFI members under false charges of blasphemy against Islam. First Information Reports have been registered against officials of MFI in Pakistan.\n\nIn a related incident, an armed group hijacked a bus in Faisalabad, claimed that their leader was the Imam Mehdi, and went on to have a shootout with the police. This had been falsely attributed to Messiah Foundation International. The leader, Shahbaz Khan, claimed in an interview with a Pakistani newspaper to be supported by the alleged billionaire and hypnotist Younus AlGohar. These claims were not verified.\n\nA press release by MFI stated that \"The false claimant Shahbaz has no association with MFI. Shahbaz is a severely misguided and blasphemous to His Holiness Gohar Shahi. Shahbaz, the impostor has demanded the government to deal with Goharians harshly which suggests that he does not belong to MFI\". It is also stated in the same press release that MFI believes Shahi to be the only awaited Imam Mehdi and does not support Shahbaz Khan. In an open letter to the former President of Pakistan, Pervez Musharraf, Younus AlGohar demanded justice be served to the 50 or so MFI members who had been persecuted because Khan claimed to be associated with MFI. In addition, the Sunday Telegraph stated that \"There is no suggestion that [Messiah Foundation International] either organised [Shahbaz] Ahmed's actions in Pakistan or knew what he and his disciples were planning\".\n\nDue to the nature of topics covered in speeches by AlGohar released onto the internet, some Muslims in Pakistan have staged protests against MFI and declared them infidels. Furthermore, newspapers in Pakistan reported protesters demanding that MFI members be punished.\n\n\"Extract written by Eric Lubbock, 4th Baron Avebury, in his report on the MFI.\"\nOn 11 August 2008 a blasphemy case 295A, PPC was registered against eight MFI members by the Khatam-e-Nabuwwat (FIR No. 281/2008, Date of Occurrence 8 August 2008), at Police Station Kotri, District Jamshoro, Sindh Province, Pakistan.\n\"(See copy of English translation of FIR, attached)\"\nOn 5 August 2008 two MFI members (Mustaqeem and Umer) were severely beaten by extremists, but an FIR was registered against MFI members (FIR No. C/31/08, Date of Report 6 August 2008, Police Station Sharif Abad, District Karachi, Sindh Province, Pakistan) \"(See copy of English translation of FIR, attached)\"\n\nOn 18 October 2008 at 03.30 Mr Mohammad Iqbal (whose family was active in MFI) was murdered (FIR No. 995/2008, Offence u/s 302, 148, 149 PPC, Date of Report 16 October 2008 at 0500 AM, Police Station Factory Area, District Shaikhupura, Punjab Province, Pakistan)(See copy of English translation of FIR, attached).Hatred has been incited against the MFI members in Pakistan, who are accused of blasphemy, and these incidents are examples of the result. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), New Delhi, wrote on 4 September 2008, to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government, setting out the case well. It was reported on 4 August 2009 in the daily Safeer, that Mr Paras Masih, organiser for the Christian community of the MFI, had been murdered in Karachi.\n\nIn another case, members of MFI in Pakistan were arrested and charged for claiming Shahi as being the Imam Mehdi. According to Dawn.com,\n2005 – December 23: Five members of the Mehdi Foundation International were arrested in Wapda Town, Lahore, for putting up posters of their leader Riaz Gohar Shahi showing him as 'Imam Mehdi'. The Anti-Terrorism Court sentenced each to five years of imprisonment under 295-A of PPC. Their prisoners’ records posted outside the cell falsely indicate that they had been sentenced under 295-C – the Blasphemy Law.\nThe prisoners \"were forced to parade naked, hung up in the air and beaten\", and were sexually abused in jail by staff members.\n\nOn April 23, 2007, 63 Pakistani MFI members, having obtained tourist visas to India, protested in front of the Pakistani Embassy in Yantra Mantra, New Dehli, India, against the government of Pakistan. They asked India for asylum, refusing to return to their homeland. During their protests, they burnt their passports and travel documents that tied them to Pakistan, Pakistani flags, and effigies of Pervez Musharraf and Maulana Fazlur Rehman. They were subsequently arrested for having no travel documentation and therefore being in India illegally. It is reported that they feared for their lives in Pakistan, where if they went back they would be charged with the Blasphemy Law, the penalty for which is death. According to \"Zee News\", \"IBN Live\", \"Outlook India\" and other newspapers, the Pakistani government had banned their practice of faith in Pakistan.\n\nAmong the 63 members were 19 women, 5 of whom are pregnant in \"advanced stages\" and 7 children. The \"DNA\" reports, \"The Pakistani judges said they were shocked to see 16 Pakistani prisoners had lost their mental balance in Amritsar jail.\" Later, the United Nations Human Rights Council in New Delhi recommended to the government of India that the Pakistan nationals should not be deported back \"till a proper decision on their request for asylum is taken by the government.\"\n\nOn the 22nd of May 2007, in front of Indian Embassy in London, the MFI staged a demonstration to bring attention to the situation of their members in jail and the dangers they faced if the Indian government decided to deport them to Pakistan.\n\nIn the 2007 annual report on Pakistan, Human Rights Without Frontiers appealed to the National Human Rights Commission in India about the MFI case: \"Is the Commission aware of the case of the planned deportation by India of 62 Pakistani citizens...? [India]is a secular democracy observing high standards of human rights including the right of peaceful practice of religion, and Pakistani Muslims consider that the religious beliefs of the Mehdi Foundation International are blasphemous, making its followers vulnerable to criminal charges for which the penalty is death under the controversial Pakistani Blasphemy Act.\" \n\nThe NHRC stated in reply that \"The Commission...will examine...the most appropriate follow-up\". However, the \"Telegraph\" in Calcutta, as well as other Indian newspapers, reported on November 26, 2009 that the plea to involve the National Human Rights Commission had been rejected by the government of India and that the Pakistani nationals were being put in the process of deportation despite the fact that, upon deportation, they would be charged under the blasphemy laws in Pakistan. In December 2010, however, the \"Hindustan Times\" reported that the Delhi high court had issued a protection order for the inmates, preventing their deportation for 70 days as of December 2. \"Mail Today\" reported in March 2011 that the UNHCR was asked by the Indian High Commission to conduct interviews of the jail members and grant them asylum in countries other than India within 6 weeks of December 2, 2010. This was extended another 3 weeks, but the possibility of them being deported to Pakistan had not been ruled out. In April 2011, though the Centre wished to deport the Pakistani nationals, the Delhi High Court ordered the Centre to wait until it made a decision on a plea to hand them over to the United Nations High Commission of Refugees. On April 21, 2011, the \"Times of India\" and other Indian newspapers reported that the Indian government had granted the MFI members in jail refugee status and had requested the UNHCR to search for a third country for their relocation.\n\nIn December 2011, various newspapers disclosed that the 65 MFI members from Tihar Jail had been granted refugee status and were being sent to Canada and the United States. They are now settled in said countries.\n\nMFI has held many protests and rallies over the years to bring attention to the way their members are treated in the country of Pakistan and about their cause.\nThey staged demonstrations on August 16, 2005 in front of the Pakistan high commission in London and on August 25, 2005 on 10 Downing Street, London, UK. On July 25, 2005, MFI members in Pakistan staged a rally in front of the Parliament of Pakistan in Islamabad to express their support for Pervez Musharraf in his anti-terrorism endeavours.\n\nThe MFI also has called for Wahhabism to be banned in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and India, due to its alleged link to terrorism and hate preaching. Due in part to their efforts in India to raise awareness of Zakir Naik's link to Wahhabism, he was declared a proclaimed offender by the National Investigation Agency and his Indian passport was revoked.\n\nMessiah/Mehdi Foundation International has centres in Canada, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Australia, India, Greece, Thailand, Taiwan, South Korea, Nepal, Japan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan. In association with their sister organisation, Kalki Avatar Foundation, the organisation has centres located in Sri Lanka and India, where they have been featured on television. Representatives of MFI often visit spiritualist expositions and programmes as well as hold events.\n\nMFI also puts out monthly newspapers. Their newspaper, 'Hatif-e-Mehdi' ('The Voice of Mehdi') is distributed in Urdu, English and Arabic and is authored by Shahi. Their literature is circulated worldwide. The organisation has received media attention largely for the cases against their members in India and Pakistan.\nThey have received attention for their activities in Sri Lanka and Canada. They launched free apps for Apple's iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad in September 2010. In June 2011, they launched the \"Imam Mehdi\" Application for the Android system.\nThe MFI also has official YouTube channels. The MFI has an official blog and an official Twitter account. They are also on Facebook.\n\n"}
{"id": "58423769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58423769", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Melioration (Kyrgyz Republic)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Melioration (Kyrgyz Republic)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Food Industry and Melioration of the Kyrgyz Republic is a ministry that is in charge of the agrarian and food situation of the Kyrgyz Republic. The ministry has its roots from the Soviet Union's Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Ministry of Food Industry, although both ministries did not directly preceded the current ministry.\n\nThe vast majority of the economy in rural Kyrgyz Republic is agricultural based, which includes crops cultivation and animal husbandry, thus the ministry is essential in ensuring sustained agricultural outputs and improved standards of living of citizens in these areas. The agriculture industry also contributes to approximately 15% of the republic's GDP, thus the policies implemented by the ministry also has large implications on the economy of the country. However, there has been criticisms of the ministry in being inadequate in tackling the decreased efficiency and productivity of this industry, due to the lack of clear policy recommendations by the ministry as well as the low rate of assets renewal in the industry.\n\nThe ministry has thus partnered several international organisations in combating these various agricultural and environmental problems. Several of these organisations include the International Fund for Agricultural Development and United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification.\n\n"}
{"id": "9264157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9264157", "title": "Ministry of Defence (Croatia)", "text": "Ministry of Defence (Croatia)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia ( or MORH) is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of the nation's military. The ministry was established in 1990.\n\nPolitical parties:<br>\n\n<br>\n\nElements in the ministry's structure are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44012187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44012187", "title": "Monland Restoration Army", "text": "Monland Restoration Army\n\nThe Monland Restoration Army (MRA) is the armed wing of the Monland Restoration Party (MRP), which was known as the Hongsawatoi Restoration Party (HRP) until 2003. The MRP campaigns for the rights and equality of the Mon people in Myanmar (Burma). Its name is sometimes translated as 'Monland Defence Army'.\n\nThe Monland Restoration Army split from the Mon National Liberation Army (MNLA), the armed wing of the New Mon State Party (NMSP), incorporating the Mon National Defence Army (MNDA) on 29 November 2001. Its founder was Nai Pan Nyunt, a captain of the MNLA.\n\nAt the time of its foundation this armed group had about 300 troops which were active in the Three Pagodas Pass area of the Tenasserim Hills, collecting taxes, laying landmines and intimidating local villagers into co-operation. Later it engaged in sporadic fights against the Tatmadaw following the alleged killing of a Tatmadaw colonel. After 2002 the MRA was expelled from the MNLA controlled areas and Nai Pan Nyunt went to the mountains near Sangkhlaburi where he tried to negotiate with Thai authorities. In January 2011 the former Mon National Defence Army troops (MNDA) of the MRA reunited with the NMSP, whose armed wing they had left in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "11694196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11694196", "title": "Moses Coady", "text": "Moses Coady\n\nRev. Dr. Moses Michael Coady (3 January 1882 – 28 July 1959) was a Roman Catholic priest, adult educator and co-operative entrepreneur best known for his instrumental role in the Antigonish Movement. Credited with introducing \"an entirely new organizational technique: that of action based on preliminary study\" to the co-operative movement in Canada, his work sparked a wave of co-operative development across the Maritimes and credit union development across English Canada. Due to his role and influence, he is often compared to Alphonse Desjardins in Québec. The influence of the movement he led spread across Canada in the 1930s and by the 1940s and 1950s, to the Caribbean, Africa and Asia.\n\nBorn into a large Irish Catholic family on a farm in the Margaree Valley of Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, Moses was the eldest boy in a family of twelve. As a youth he was very concerned at the scale of outmigration from the valley: young men and women leaving for the steel mills and coal mines, or taking up jobs as domestics in the \"Boston States\". He determined he would get a good education so he could help people make their farms more profitable and give them a reason to stay on the land.\n\nCoady would draw on an unusual combination of gifts, having ‘the soul of a poet’ and ‘the mind of a mathematician’. After graduating top of his class at ‘St. FX’ (St. Francis Xavier University) in Antigonish in 1905, Coady was persuaded by his first cousin Jimmy Tompkins to enter the priesthood. He followed Tompkins to Rome, where he studied theology and philosophy.\n\nAfter his ordination in Rome in 1910, Coady began teaching at St. FX. He put on special classes for students at risk of failing, and prided himself on being able to teach maths to anyone. He honed his considerable oratorical skills and developed a talent for making complex concepts easily understood.\n\nEmigration from Nova Scotia continued, and Coady fought against a kind of \"weird pessimism (that) so benumbed everybody that nothing has been attempted to break the spell.\" In 1921 he helped organize the province’s school teachers. Typically earning about $35 a month, four out of five were young women who lost their jobs as soon as they married. At a meeting of the teachers’ fragile union in Truro that year he urged action and was elected secretary-treasurer. He spent much of the next 3 years expanding support for the union and founding/editing the \"Nova Scotia Teachers’ Bulletin\".\n\nThe defining moment in Coady’s career came when he testified before a Canadian government commission in 1927. Drawing on his own experience and that of other Movement leaders like Jimmy Tompkins and Hugh MacPherson (an early co-operative pioneer) he maintained that the local economy could be revitalized if the right type of learning was cultivated in ordinary people: especially critical thinking, scientific methods of planning and production, and co-operative entrepreneurship.\n\nThe report of the MacLean Commission was catalytic: in late 1928 St. FX organized an Extension Department to carry adult education to the people of the province, appointing Coady as its first director. The Canadian Department of Fisheries asked Coady to help the government \"organize the fishermen\".\n\nThrough the years of the Antigonish Movement, financial support came from St. FX, the Carnegie Corporation and the Rockefeller Foundation (two New York-based charities), and the local Scottish Catholic Society. Coady’s own staff resources were supplemented by collaboration with the Department of Fisheries, and later by widespread volunteerism in the villages.\n\nThe chronic decline in the fisheries gained new urgency with the onset of the Great Depression. Mines closed and thousands of miners were thrown out of work. Out-migration slowed, but for all the wrong reasons. Many jobless emigrants returned home.\n\nThrough the new department, Coady linked adult education with co-operative business ventures in the distinctive blend that became known as the Antigonish Movement. The immediate priorities of the Extension Department were the formation of ‘study clubs’, the emergence of new co-operatives and a school for leaders.\n\nStudy clubs gave ordinary Maritimers an opportunity to critically analyze the dynamics keeping them poor and to study possible solutions. The clubs helped people to plan and then successfully launch co-operatives in many fields: agricultural marketing, fish canning, dairy, retail sales and housing. Once the co-operatives were launched, the school for leaders kept their managers and directors continually stimulated with new and fresh ideas and business methods.\n\nCoady also invested considerable energy in catalyzing and strengthening wholesale co-operatives around the Maritimes: including the United Maritime Fishermen, the United Fruit Companies of Nova Scotia and the Canadian Livestock Co-operatives (Maritimes). For example, he brokered conflicting interests and provided timely technical support in the formation of the United Maritime Fishermen. UMF was a trade association for the region’s fishing co-ops \"with a strong adult education component\". It promoted canneries and provided cooperative marketing services to fishermen to help them capture a greater share of the profit from their catch.\n\nThe period from 1929 until World War II marked the high tide of the Antigonish Movement. For a discussion of the ideas and techniques of the movement, see the Antigonish Movement.\n\nThe leaders of the movement saw themselves as developing the full potential economic, social and cultural potential within the people of the region. \"But perhaps the most important reason why the Antigonish movement was able to have a significant, lasting impact was its promotion of credit unions\" which delivered microfinance. The farmers, fishers and miners who formed the backbone of the movement had little access to credit before the Great Depression, and lost what little they had as the downturn started to bite.\n\nWhen the Antigonish movement looked for external allies in credit union development, it did not seek them from the movement in Quebec, where Alphonse Desjardins had founded the first credit union movement in North America three decades earlier. Instead, it looked across the border to the United States – to Roy Bergengren and Credit Union National of America. Bergengren drafted a credit union law for Nova Scotia that was ratified by the provincial legislature in 1932.\n\nThat year Coady, MacDonald and Bergengren visited the fishing village of Broad Cove, where they helped the residents form the first credit union in the Maritimes.\n\nBy 1936 Coady was increasingly traveling beyond the Maritimes to Ontario, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, where his speeches and ideas helped ignite local credit union movements.\n\nWhile results were not uniform, many of Coady’s initiatives proved successful. By 1944 United Maritime Fishermen represented 70 member fishing co-ops around Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. That year it sold $1.4 million in product, including $400,000 in lobsters into New England.\n\nBy 1945 there were over 400 credit unions in the Maritimes, with 70,000 members and $4.2 million in assets.\n\nBy the end of World War II credit unions and other co-operatives dotted the Maritimes, transforming the lives of thousands of people. Coady was honoured within the co-operative movement and beyond. He was featured on a national radio program of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation on co-operatives in 1940. In 1946 the Vatican made him a Monsignor. In 1949 Coady was asked to address the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. He argued that environmental problems stemmed from ignorance of science, concentration of rural land ownership in the hands of a few, and exploitation of land primarily for profit.\n\nIn spite of the success and public recognition, Coady’s optimism and faith in people were tested in the later years of his life. Some co-operative leaders had committed fraud, while others had sold out their community’s resources to vested interests. Some fishermen sold their fish for \"half a cent less\" to the very middlemen whose monopolistic behavior their co-ops had been formed to discipline.\n\nAs the co-ops gradually became larger and more professional, many ordinary members lost their connection, and reverted to the ‘weird pessimism’ that had bothered Coady in his youth.\n\nDuring the 1940s and 1950s the Extension Department increasingly turned its attention to international development.\n\nAfter suffering a major heart attack, Coady stepped down as Director of the Extension Department on February 5, 1952. He was 70, and would continue to work nationally and internationally as Director Emeritus of the Extension Department, now with 25 staff, until his death.\n\nIn his dying days, Coady told his bishop that he was at peace with God and that \"If I die, I die happy in the thought that my blueprint is being realized much more surely than I ever had a right to expect.\" On his death at age 77, two fishermen, two farmers, a miner and a steelworker carried his body to a grave on a hill overlooking Antigonish.\nCoady’s only book, \"Masters of Their Own Destiny\", was an expression of the philosophy of the movement. Still in print, it has been translated into seven languages. A volume of his speeches, \"The Man from Margaree\", was published by Alexander Laidlaw in 1971. Numerous books have been written about both the man and the movement he led. During his life Coady received three honorary degrees (Boston, Ottawa, Ohio).\n\nBiographer Michael Welton (\"Little Mosie from the Margaree: A Biography of Moses Michael Coady\", 2001) depicts Coady as a flawed man. \"Coady’s agonal last few years reflect, I think, a profound state of hubris. No one can be certain how Coady deceived himself into thinking that he had a divine mission to liberate the peoples of the world.\" Welton compares this millenarian mindset to that of contemporaries Hitler and Stalin. He writes that although Coady tried to mask his feelings behind a veneer of faith in democracy and ordinary people, the veneer wore thin later in his life, and Coady’s faith in others was replaced by a sense of betrayal and a tendency towards manipulation.\nAnother recent biographer, Jim Lotz (\"The Humble Giant: Moses Coady, Canada's Rural Revolutionary\", 2005) criticizes Coady for precisely the opposite flaw: his unwillingness or perhaps inability to confront political corruption and rent seeking in his home province. \"Coady’s belief in the power of ideas to change the hearts and actions of men and women came up against … the petty, patronage-ridden political system in Nova Scotia in the 1930s.\"\n\nLotz also documents the difficult relations between Coady and the Acadian co-operative movement. For example, the Rev. Alexandre Boudreau, a co-operative leader from the region of Chéticamp in Cape Breton claimed that Coady kept Acadians out of important positions in the Antigonish Movement.\n\nAnd while acknowledging their debt to Coady and to the study club approach, Acadians felt like outsiders in the New Brunswick Credit Union League. This led to the emergence of a parallel Acadian federation in New Brunswick in 1946. Today, the credit union system in this officially bilingual province has over twice the market penetration of the system in Nova Scotia. Its performance is largely driven by the 200,000 member Mouvement des caisses populaires acadiennes.\n\nIn Nova Scotia the dynamism of the movement did not survive Coady’s generation. Of 60,000 credit union members in Nova Scotia at the time of Coady’s death in 1959, nearly half joined the movement during the period 1932-39, when Coady was spending most of his time in the villages. By contrast, the mantle of Alphonse Desjardins was inherited by very able successors like Cyrille Vaillancourt whose leadership and innovation continued to drive the Quebec movement from one success to the next.\n\nIn the words of Coady’s protégé Alexander Laidlaw \"if co-operatives are to be a true people’s movement, they must generate their own power from within.\" As historian Ian MacPherson shows in the case of British Columbia (another very successful province), enduring success results from multi-faceted roots – which in that case included active participation by an active agricultural cooperative system, urban unions, farmers organizations, the Catholic Church, private welfare groups and the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation.\n\nThe Board of Governors of St. Francis Xavier University established the Coady International Institute in Coady's honour less than six months after his death. The Institute has played a dynamic role in the emergence of credit unions throughout the world, especially in Africa. Since then, over 6,000 community development practitioners from over 130 countries have studied at the campus in Antigonish, Nova Scotia.\n\nStudy clubs have been used widely in Africa, the Caribbean and South Asia in rural villages, and their method and approach anticipated the emergence of participatory rural appraisal in the 1980s and 1990s. Because study clubs increased the willingness and ability of poorer people to participate, they were one of the most significant innovations in credit unions since the first were formed by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen in rural Germany in 1864.\n\nCoady, like Raiffeisen, Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch and Alphonse Desjardins was part of a global movement in co-operative microfinance. Due to the poor performance of many community-based credit unions in the developing world, this movement lost its momentum in the 1970s, to be replaced by the more centralized approach characteristic of the microcredit movement. However, the main successes in microcredit have been confined to urban or very densely populated rural areas. In recent years there has been a revival of interest in village-based and participatory approaches, such as the SHG movement in India and the ASCA movement in Africa to address the problem of financial services for poor rural farmers.\n\nThe Co-operative Union of Canada under the leadership of George Keen spread both the philosophy and the tools of the Antigonish Movement widely across Canada. Led by co-operative entrepreneurs like Jake Siemens, adult education became a priority in western Canada with the foundation of the Western Co-operative College in Saskatoon in 1955. (1893-1952), the Assistant Director of the Extension Department under Coady, rose to national leadership in the Union in 1945, from whence he led an increasing international engagement on behalf of Canadians. Coady described MacDonald as a brilliant man, capable of organizing and maintaining a far-flung network of study clubs and cooperatives, who had a \"keen and penetrating mind, always ahead of the people yet practical enough to keep within the range of what was possible. He was radical enough in other words to be progressive, and, conservative enough to be sane.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22083", "title": "Negotiation", "text": "Negotiation\n\nNegotiation comes from the Latin neg (no) and otsia (leisure) referring to businessmen who, unlike the patricians, had no leisure time in their industriousness; it held the meaning of business (le négoce in French) until the 17th century when it took on the diplomatic connotation as a dialogue between two or more people or parties intended to reach a beneficial outcome over one or more issues where a conflict exists with respect to at least one of these issues. Thus, negotiation is a process of combining divergent positions into a joint agreement under a decision rule of unanimity.\n\nIt is aimed to resolve points of difference, to gain advantage for an individual or collective, or to craft outcomes to satisfy various interests. It is often conducted by putting forward a position and making concessions to achieve an agreement. The degree to which the negotiating parties trust each other to implement the negotiated solution is a major factor in determining whether negotiations are successful. \n\nPeople negotiate daily, often without considering it a negotiation. Negotiation occurs in organizations, including businesses, non-profits, and within and between governments as well as in sales and legal proceedings, and in personal situations such as marriage, divorce, parenting, etc. Professional negotiators are often specialized, such as union negotiators, leverage buyout negotiators, peace negotiator, or hostage negotiators. They may also work under other titles, such as diplomats, legislators, or brokers. \n\nNegotiation can take a wide variety of forms, from a multilateral conference of all United Nations members to establish a new international norm (such as the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea) to a meeting of parties to a conflict to end violence or resolve the underlying issue (such as constitutional negotiations in South Africa in 1990-1994 or in Colombia with the FARC on 2012-2015) to a business encounter to make a deal to a face-off between parents (or between parent and child) over the child's proper behavior. . Mediation is a form of negotiation with a third-party catalyst who helps the conflicting parties negotiate when they cannot do so by themselves Negotiation can be contrasted with arbitration, where the decision lies with the third party, which the conflicting parties are committed to accept.\n\nNegotiation theorists generally distinguish between two types of negotiation The difference in the usage of the two type depends on the mindset of the negotiator but also on the situation: one-off encounters where lasting relationships do not obtain are more likely to produce distributive negotiations whereas lasting relationships are more likely to require integrative negotiating Different theorists use different labels for the two general types and distinguish them in different ways.\n\nDistributive negotiation is also sometimes called positional or hard-bargaining negotiation and attempts to distribute a \"fixed pie\" of benefits. Distributive negotiation operates under zero-sum conditions and implies that any gain one party makes is at the expense of the other and vice versa. For this reason, distributive negotiation is also sometimes called \"win-lose\" because of the assumption that one person's gain is another person's loss. Distributive negotiation examples include haggling prices on an open market, including the negotiation of the price of a car or a home.\n\nIn a distributive negotiation, each side often adopts an extreme or fixed position, knowing it will not be accepted—and then seeks to cede as little as possible before reaching a deal. Distributive bargainers conceive of negotiation as a process of distributing a fixed amount of value. A distributive negotiation often involves people who have never had a previous interactive relationship, nor are they likely to do so again in the near future, although all negotiations usually have a distributive element.\n\nIn the distributive approach each negotiator fights for the largest possible piece of the pie, so parties tend to regard each other more as an adversary than a partner and to take a harder line. Since Prospect Theory indicates that people value losses more than gains and are more risk-averse about losses, concession-convergence bargaining is likely to be more acrimonious and less productive of an agreement \n\nIntegrative negotiation is also called interest-based, merit-based, or principled negotiation. It is a set of techniques that attempts to improve the quality and likelihood of negotiated agreement by taking advantage of the fact that different parties often value various outcomes differently. . While distributive negotiation assumes there is a fixed amount of value (a \"fixed pie\") to be divided between the parties, integrative negotiation attempts to create value in the course of the negotiation (\"expand the pie\") by either \"compensating\" loss of one item with gains from another (\"trade-offs\" or logrolling), or by constructing or reframing the issues of the conflict in such a way that both parties benefit (\"win-win\" negotiation).\n\nHowever, even integrative negotiation is likely to have some distributive elements, especially when the different parties both value different items to the same degree or when details are left to be allocated at the end of the negotiation. While concession is mandatory for negotiations, research shows that people who concede more quickly, are less likely to explore all integrative and mutually beneficial solutions. Therefore, early conceding reduces the chance of an integrative negotiation.\n\nIntegrative negotiation often involves a higher degree of trust and the formation of a relationship. It can also involve creative problem-solving that aims to achieve mutual gains. It sees a good agreement as not one with maximum individual gain, but one that provides optimum gain for all parties. Gains in this scenario are not at the expense of the Other, but with it. Each seeks to accord the Other enough benefit that it will hold to the agreement that gives the first party an agreeable outcome, and vice versa. \n\nProductive negotiation focuses on the underlying interests of the parties rather than their starting positions, approaches negotiation as a shared problem-solving rather than a personalized battle, and insists upon adherence to objective, principled criteria as the basis for agreement.\n\nHowever, negotiators need not sacrifice effective negotiation in favor of a positive relationship between parties. Rather than conceding, each side can appreciate that the other has emotions and motivations of their own and use this to their advantage in discussing the issue. In fact, perspective-taking can help move parties toward a more integrative solution. Fisher et al. illustrate a few techniques that effectively improve perspective-taking in their book \"Getting to Yes\", and through the following, negotiators can separate people from the problem itself.\n\n\nAdditionally, negotiators can use certain communication techniques to build a stronger relationship and develop more meaningful negotiation solution.\n\n\n\"Integrated negotiation\" is a strategic approach to influence that maximizes value in any single negotiation through the astute linking and sequencing of other negotiations and decisions related to one's operating activities.\n\nThis approach in complex settings is best executed by mapping out all potentially relevant negotiations, conflicts and operating decisions in order to integrate helpful connections among them, while minimizing any potentially harmful connections (see examples below).\n\n\"Integrated negotiation\" is not to be confused with \"integrative negotiation\", a different concept (as outlined above) related to a non-zero-sum approach to creating value in negotiations.\n\nIntegrated negotiation was first identified and labeled by international negotiator and author Peter Johnston in his book \"Negotiating with Giants\".\n\nOne of the examples cited in Johnston's book is that of J. D. Rockefeller deciding where to build his first major oil refinery. Instead of taking the easier, cheaper route from the oil fields to refine his petroleum in Pittsburgh, Rockefeller chose to build his refinery in Cleveland. Why? Because rail companies would be transporting his refined oil to market. Pittsburgh had just one major railroad, meaning it could dictate prices in negotiations, while Cleveland had three railroads that Rockefeller knew would compete for his business, potentially reducing his costs significantly. The leverage gained in these rail negotiations more than offset the additional operating costs of sending his oil to Cleveland for refining, helping establish Rockefeller's empire, while undermining his competitors who failed to integrate their core operating decisions with their negotiation strategies.\n\nOther examples of integrated negotiation include the following:\n\nWhen a party pretends to negotiate, but secretly has no intention of compromising, the party is considered negotiating in bad faith. Bad faith is a concept in negotiation theory whereby parties pretend to reason to reach settlement, but have no intention to do so, for example, one political party may pretend to negotiate, with no intention to compromise, for political effect.\n\nBad faith negotiations are often used in political science and political psychology to refer to negotiating strategies in which there is no real intention to reach compromise, or a model of information processing. The \"inherent bad faith model\" of information processing is a theory in political psychology that was first put forth by Ole Holsti to explain the relationship between John Foster Dulles' beliefs and his model of information processing. It is the most widely studied model of one's opponent. A state is presumed implacably hostile, and contra-indicators of this are ignored. They are dismissed as propaganda ploys or signs of weakness. Examples are John Foster Dulles' position regarding the Soviet Union, or Hamas's position on the state of Israel.\n\nThere are many different ways to categorize the essential elements of negotiation.\n\nOne view of negotiation involves three basic elements: \"process\", \"behavior\" and \"substance\". The process refers to how the parties negotiate: the context of the negotiations, the parties to the negotiations, the tactics used by the parties, and the sequence and stages in which all of these play out. Behavior refers to the relationships among these parties, the communication between them and the styles they adopt. The substance refers to what the parties negotiate over: the agenda, the issues (positions and – more helpfully – interests), the options, and the agreement(s) reached at the end.\n\nAnother view of negotiation comprises four elements: \"strategy\", \"process\", \"tools\", and \"tactics\". Strategy comprises the top level goals – typically including relationship and the final outcome. Processes and tools include the steps to follow and roles to take in preparing for and negotiating with the other parties. Tactics include more detailed statements and actions and responses to others' statements and actions. Some add to this \"persuasion and influence\", asserting that these have become integral to modern day negotiation success, and so should not be omitted.\n\nA skilled negotiator may serve as an advocate for one party to the negotiation. The advocate attempts to obtain the most favorable outcomes possible for that party. In this process the negotiator attempts to determine the minimum outcome(s) the other party is (or parties are) willing to accept, then adjusts their demands accordingly. A \"successful\" negotiation in the advocacy approach is when the negotiator is able to obtain all or most of the outcomes their party desires, but without driving the other party to permanently break off negotiations.\n\nSkilled negotiators may use a variety of tactics ranging from negotiation hypnosis, to a straightforward presentation of demands or setting of preconditions, to more deceptive approaches such as cherry picking. Intimidation and salami tactics may also play a part in swaying the outcome of negotiations.\n\nAnother negotiation tactic is bad guy/good guy. Bad guy/good guy is when one negotiator acts as a bad guy by using anger and threats. The other negotiator acts as a good guy by being considerate and understanding. The good guy blames the bad guy for all the difficulties while trying to get concessions and agreement from the opponent.\n\nThe best alternative to a negotiated agreement, or BATNA is the alternative option a negotiator holds should the current negotiation fails and does not reach agreement. The quality of a BATNA has the potential to improve a party's negotiation outcome. Understanding one's BATNA can empower an individual and allow him or her to set higher goals when moving forward. One of the best strategy while going into a negotiation is to ensure that you have a strong BATNA, and if not, have tools equipped that can help you made the other side's BATNA weak. One of the major mistakes made by new negotiators is to disclose their BATNA at first without having had any discussion with the other side. This can jeopardise your position in the negotiation, as your negotiation might have been weaker than the other sides, and such disclosure puts you at a weaker spot in the negotiation. The best strategy is to ask a lot of questions to develop, if not an exact, but a guess about the other sides BATNA to know your position in the negotiation.\n\nKenneth W. Thomas identified five styles or responses to negotiation. These five strategies have been frequently described in the literature and are based on the dual-concern model. The dual concern model of conflict resolution is a perspective that assumes individuals' preferred method of dealing with conflict is based on two themes or dimensions:\n\n\nBased on this model, individuals balance the concern for personal needs and interests with the needs and interests of others. The following five styles can be used based on individuals' preferences depending on their pro-self or pro-social goals. These styles can change over time, and individuals can have strong dispositions towards numerous styles.\n\nThree basic kinds of negotiators have been identified by researchers involved in The Harvard Negotiation Project. These types of negotiators are: soft bargainers, hard bargainers, and principled bargainers.\n\n\nResearchers from The Harvard Negotiation Project recommend that negotiators explore a number of alternatives to the problems they face in order to reach the best solution, but this is often not the case (as when you may be dealing with an individual using soft or hard bargaining tactics) (Forsyth, 2010).\n\nTactics are always an important part of the negotiating process. More often than not they are subtle, difficult to identify and used for multiple purposes. Tactics are more frequently used in distributive negotiations and when the focus in on taking as much value off the table as possible. Many negotiation tactics exist. Below are a few commonly used tactics.\n\nAuction:\nThe bidding process is designed to create competition. When multiple parties want the same thing, pit them against one another. When people know that they may lose out on something, they want it even more. Not only do they want the thing that is being bid on, they also want to win, just to win. Taking advantage of someone's competitive nature can drive up the price.\n\nBrinksmanship:\nOne party aggressively pursues a set of terms to the point where the other negotiating party must either agree or walk away. Brinkmanship is a type of \"hard nut\" approach to bargaining in which one party pushes the other party to the \"brink\" or edge of what that party is willing to accommodate. Successful brinksmanship convinces the other party they have no choice but to accept the offer and there is no acceptable alternative to the proposed agreement.\n\nBogey:\nNegotiators use the bogey tactic to pretend that an issue of little or no importance is very important. Then, later in the negotiation, the issue can be traded for a major concession of actual importance.\n\nChicken:\nNegotiators propose extreme measures, often bluffs, to force the other party to chicken out and give them what they want. This tactic can be dangerous when parties are unwilling to back down and go through with the extreme measure.\n\nDefence in Depth:\nSeveral layers of decision-making authority is used to allow further concessions each time the agreement goes through a different level of authority. In other words, each time the offer goes to a decision maker, that decision maker asks to add another concession to close the deal.\n\nDeadlines:\nGive the other party a deadline forcing them to make a decision. This method uses time to apply pressure to the other party. Deadlines given can be actual or artificial.\n\nFlinch:\nFlinching is showing a strong negative physical reaction to a proposal. Common examples of flinching are gasping for air, or a visible expression of surprise or shock. The flinch can be done consciously or unconsciously. The flinch signals to the opposite party that you think the offer or proposal is absurd in hopes the other party will lower their aspirations. Seeing a physical reaction is more believable than hearing someone saying, \"I'm shocked.\"\n\nGood Guy/Bad Guy:\nThe good guy/bad guy approach is typically used in team negotiations where one member of the team makes extreme or unreasonable demands, and the other offers a more rational approach. This tactic is named after a police interrogation technique often portrayed in the media. The \"good guy\" appears more reasonable and understanding, and therefore, easier to work with. In essence, it is using the law of relativity to attract cooperation. The \"good guy\" appears more agreeable relative than the \"bad guy.\"\n\nHighball/Lowball:\nDepending on whether selling or buying, sellers or buyers use a ridiculously high, or ridiculously low opening offer that is not achievable. The theory is that the extreme offer makes the other party reevaluate their own opening offer and move close to the resistance point (as far as you are willing to go to reach an agreement). Another advantage is that the party giving the extreme demand appears more flexible when they make concessions toward a more reasonable outcome. A danger of this tactic is that the opposite party may think negotiating is a waste of time.\n\nThe Nibble:\nNibbling is asking for proportionally small concessions that haven't been discussed previously just before closing the deal. This method takes advantage of the other party's desire to close by adding \"just one more thing.\"\n\nSnow Job:\nNegotiators overwhelm the other party with so much information that they have difficulty determining what information is important, and what is a diversion. Negotiators may also use technical language or jargon to mask a simple answer to a question asked by a non-expert.\n\nMirroring:\nWhen people get on well, the outcome of a negotiation is likely to be more positive. To create trust and a rapport, a negotiator may mimic or mirror the opponent's behavior and repeat what they say. Mirroring refers to a person repeating the core content of what another person just said, or repeating a certain expression. It indicates attention to the subject of negotiation and acknowledges the other party's point or statement. Mirroring can help create trust and establish a relationship.\n\nCommunication is a key element of negotiation. Effective negotiation requires that participants effectively convey and interpret information. Participants in a negotiation communicate information not only verbally but non-verbally through body language and gestures. By understanding how nonverbal communication works, a negotiator is better equipped to interpret the information other participants are leaking non-verbally while keeping secret those things that would inhibit his/her ability to negotiate.\n\nNon-verbal \"anchoring\"\nIn a negotiation, a person can gain the advantage by verbally expressing a position first. By anchoring one's position, one establishes the position from which the negotiation proceeds. In a like manner, one can \"anchor\" and gain advantage with nonverbal (body language) cues.\n\n\nReading non-verbal communication\nBeing able to read the non-verbal communication of another person can significantly aid in the communication process. By being aware of inconsistencies between a person's verbal and non-verbal communication and reconciling them, negotiators can to come to better resolutions. Examples of incongruity in body language include:\n\n\nConveying receptivity\nThe way negotiation partners position their bodies relative to each other may influence how receptive each is to the other person's message and ideas.\n\n\nReceptive negotiators tend to appear relaxed with their hands open and palms visibly displayed.\n\n\nEmotions play an important part in the negotiation process, although it is only in recent years that their effect is being studied. Emotions have the potential to play either a positive or negative role in negotiation. During negotiations, the decision as to whether or not to settle rests in part on emotional factors. Negative emotions can cause intense and even irrational behavior, and can cause conflicts to escalate and negotiations to break down, but may be instrumental in attaining concessions. On the other hand, positive emotions often facilitate reaching an agreement and help to maximize joint gains, but can also be instrumental in attaining concessions. Positive and negative discrete emotions can be strategically displayed to influence task and relational outcomes and may play out differently across cultural boundaries.\n\nDispositional affects affect various stages of negotiation: which strategies to use, which strategies are actually chosen, the way the other party and their intentions are perceived, their willingness to reach an agreement and the final negotiated outcomes. Positive affectivity (PA) and negative affectivity (NA) of one or more of the negotiating sides can lead to very different outcomes.\n\nEven before the negotiation process starts, people in a positive mood have more confidence, and higher tendencies to plan to use a cooperative strategy. During the negotiation, negotiators who are in a positive mood tend to enjoy the interaction more, show less contentious behavior, use less aggressive tactics and more cooperative strategies. This in turn increases the likelihood that parties will reach their instrumental goals, and enhance the ability to find integrative gains. Indeed, compared with negotiators with negative or natural affectivity, negotiators with positive affectivity reached more agreements and tended to honor those agreements more. Those favorable outcomes are due to better decision making processes, such as flexible thinking, creative problem solving, respect for others' perspectives, willingness to take risks and higher confidence. Post-negotiation positive affect has beneficial consequences as well. It increases satisfaction with achieved outcome and influences one's desire for future interactions. The PA aroused by reaching an agreement facilitates the dyadic relationship, which brings commitment that sets the stage for subsequent interactions. PA also has its drawbacks: it distorts perception of self performance, such that performance is judged to be relatively better than it actually is. Thus, studies involving self reports on achieved outcomes might be biased.\n\nNegative affect has detrimental effects on various stages in the negotiation process. Although various negative emotions affect negotiation outcomes, by far the most researched is anger. Angry negotiators plan to use more competitive strategies and to cooperate less, even before the negotiation starts. These competitive strategies are related to reduced joint outcomes.\nDuring negotiations, anger disrupts the process by reducing the level of trust, clouding parties' judgment, narrowing parties' focus of attention and changing their central goal from reaching agreement to retaliating against the other side. Angry negotiators pay less attention to opponent's interests and are less accurate in judging their interests, thus achieve lower joint gains. Moreover, because anger makes negotiators more self-centered in their preferences, it increases the likelihood that they will reject profitable offers. Opponents who get really angry (or cry, or otherwise lose control) are more likely to make errors: make sure they are in your favor.\nAnger does not help achieve negotiation goals either: it reduces joint gains and does not boost personal gains, as angry negotiators do not succeed. Moreover, negative emotions lead to acceptance of settlements that are not in the positive utility function but rather have a negative utility. However, expression of negative emotions during negotiation can sometimes be beneficial: legitimately expressed anger can be an effective way to show one's commitment, sincerity, and needs. Moreover, although NA reduces gains in integrative tasks, it is a better strategy than PA in distributive tasks (such as zero-sum). In his work on negative affect arousal and white noise, Seidner found support for the existence of a negative affect arousal mechanism through observations regarding the devaluation of speakers from other ethnic origins.\" Negotiation may be negatively affected, in turn, by submerged hostility toward an ethnic or gender group.\n\nResearch indicates that negotiator's emotions do not necessarily affect the negotiation process.\nAlbarracın et al. (2003) suggested that there are two conditions for emotional affect, both related to the ability (presence of environmental or cognitive disturbances) and the motivation:\n\n\nAccording to this model, emotions affect negotiations only when one is high and the other is low. When both ability and motivation are low, the affect is identified, and when both are high the affect is identified but discounted as irrelevant to judgment.\nA possible implication of this model is, for example, that the positive effects PA has on negotiations (as described above) is seen only when either motivation or ability are low.\n\nMost studies on emotion in negotiations focus on the effect of the negotiator's own emotions on the process. However, what the other party feels might be just as important, as group emotions are known to affect processes both at the group and the personal levels.\nWhen it comes to negotiations, trust in the other party is a necessary condition for its emotion to affect, and visibility enhances the effect.\nEmotions contribute to negotiation processes by signaling what one feels and thinks and can thus prevent the other party from engaging in destructive behaviors and to indicate what steps should be taken next: PA signals to keep in the same way, while NA points that mental or behavioral adjustments are needed.\nPartner's emotions can have two basic effects on negotiator's emotions and behavior: mimetic/ reciprocal or complementary. For example, disappointment or sadness might lead to compassion and more cooperation. In a study by Butt et al. (2005) that simulated real multi-phase negotiation, most people reacted to the partner's emotions in reciprocal, rather than complementary, manner. Specific emotions were found to have different effects on the opponent's feelings and strategies chosen:\n\n\n\nNegotiation is a rather complex interaction. Capturing all its complexity is a very difficult task, let alone isolating and controlling only certain aspects of it. For this reason most negotiation studies are done under laboratory conditions, and focus only on some aspects. Although lab studies have their advantages, they do have major drawbacks when studying emotions:\n\n\nWhile negotiations involving more than two parties is less often researched, some results from two-party negotiations still apply with more than two parties. One such result is that in negotiations it is common to see language similarity arise between the two negotiating parties. In three-party negotiations, language similarity still arose, and results were particularly efficient when the party with the most to gain from the negotiation adopted language similarities from the other parties.\n\nDue to globalization and growing business trends, negotiation in the form of teams is becoming widely adopted. Teams can effectively collaborate to break down a complex negotiation. There is more knowledge and wisdom dispersed in a team than in a single mind. Writing, listening, and talking, are specific roles team members must satisfy. The capacity base of a team reduces the amount of blunder, and increases familiarity in a negotiation.\n\nHowever, unless a team can appropriately utilize the full capacity of its potential, effectiveness can suffer. One factor in the effectiveness of team negotiation is a problem that occurs through solidarity behavior. Solidarity behavior occurs when one team member reduces his or her own utility (benefit) in order to increase the benefits of other team members. This behavior is likely to occur when interest conflicts rise. When the utility/needs of the negotiation opponent does not align with every team member's interests, team members begin to make concessions and balance the benefits gained among the team.\n\nIntuitively, this may feel like a cooperative approach. However, though a team may aim to negotiate in a cooperative or collaborative nature, the outcome may be less successful than is possible, especially when integration is possible. Integrative potential is possible when different negotiation issues are of different importance to each team member. Integrative potential is often missed due to the lack of awareness of each member's interests and preferences. Ultimately, this leads to a poorer negotiation result.\n\nThus, a team can perform more effectively if each member discloses his or her preferences prior to the negotiation. This step will allow the team to recognize and organize the team's joint priorities, which they can take into consideration when engaging with the opposing negotiation party. Because a team is more likely to discuss shared information and common interests, teams must make an active effort to foster and incorporate unique viewpoints from experts from different fields. Research by Daniel Thiemann, which largely focused on computer-supported collaborative tasks, found that the Preference Awareness method is an effective tool for fostering the knowledge about joint priorities and further helps the team judge which negotiation issues were of highest importance.\n\nMany of the strategies in negotiation vary across genders, and this leads to variations in outcomes for different genders, often with women experiencing less success in negotiations as a consequence. This is due to a number of factors, including that it has been shown that it is more difficult for women to be self-advocating when they are negotiating. Many of the implications of these findings have strong financial impacts in addition to the social backlash faced by self-advocating women in negotiations, as compared to other advocating women, self-advocating men, and other advocating men. Research in this area has been studied across platforms, in addition to more specific areas like women as physician assistants. The backlash associated with this type of behavior is attributed to the fact that to be self-advocated is considered masculine, whereas the alternative, being accommodating, is considered more feminine. Males, however, do not appear to face any type of backlash for not being self-advocating.\n\nThis research has been supported by multiple studies, including one which evaluated candidates participating in a negotiation regarding compensation. This study showed that women who initiated negotiations were evaluated more poorly than men who initiated negotiations. In another variation of this particular setup, men and women evaluated videos of men and women either accepting a compensation package or initiating negotiations. Men evaluated women more poorly for initiating negotiations, while women evaluated both men and women more poorly for initiating negotiations. In this particular experiment, women were less likely to initiate a negotiation with a male, citing nervousness, but there was no variation with the negotiation was initiated with another female.\n\nResearch also supports the notion that the way individuals respond in a negotiation varies depending on the gender of the opposite party. In all-male groups, the use of deception showed no variation upon the level of trust between negotiating parties, however in mixed-sex groups there was an increase in deceptive tactics when it was perceived that the opposite party was using an accommodating strategy. In all-female groups, there were many shifts in when individuals did and did not employ deception in their negotiation tactics.\n\nThe academic world contains a unique management system, wherein faculty members, some of which have tenure, reside in academic units (e.g. departments) and are overseen by chairs, or heads. These chairs/heads are in turn supervised by deans of the college where their academic unit resides. Negotiation is an area where faculty, chairs/heads and their deans have little preparation; their doctoral degrees are typically in a highly specialized area according to their academic expertise. However, the academic environment frequently presents with situations where negotiation takes place. For example, many faculty are hired with an expectation that they will conduct research and publish scholarly works. For these faculty, where their research requires equipment, space, and/or funding, negotiation of a \"start-up\" package is critical for their success and future promotion.Also, department chairs often find themselves in situations, typically involving resource redistribution where they must negotiate with their dean, on behalf of their unit. And deans oversee colleges where they must optimize limited resources, such as research space or operating funds while at the same time creating an environment that fosters student success, research accomplishments and more.\n\nIntegrative negotiation is the type predominately found in academic negotiation – where trust and long-term relationships between personnel are valued. Techniques found to be particularly useful in academic settings include: (1) doing your homework – grounding your request in facts; (2) knowing your value; (3) listening actively and acknowledging what is being said, (4) putting yourself in their shoes, (5) asking – negotiation begins with an ask, (6) not committing immediately, (7) managing emotion and (8) keeping in mind the principle of a \"wise agreement\", with its associated emphasis on meeting the interests of both parties to the extent possible as a key working point. The articles by Callahan, et al.and Amekudzi-Kennedy, et al. contain several case studies of academic negotiations.\n\nThe word \"negotiation\" originated in the early 15th century from the Old French and Latin expressions \"negociacion\" and \"negotiationem\". These terms mean \"business, trade and traffic\". By the late 1590s negotiation had the definition, \"to communicate in search of mutual agreement.\" With this new introduction and this meaning, it showed a shift in \"doing business\" to \"bargaining about\" business.\n\n"}
{"id": "15196339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196339", "title": "Off-plan property", "text": "Off-plan property\n\nOff-plan property is a property before a structure has been constructed upon it. Pre-constructions are usually marketed to real estate developers and to early adopters as developments so that the purchaser can secure much better finance terms from their lenders.\n\nProperty investors or property speculators like to purchase property in this way in the hope of making substantial capital gains. This usually occurs because developers who offer property for sale off-plan often offer financial incentives to early adopters. Usually this comes in the form of a discount in response to the sale plan. Furthermore, there may be ample opportunity for capital growth in a rising market and with a development cycle of typically 12–24 months.\n\nIt is important to note that for off-plan property to be attractive, there must be a high level of other infrastructure in the immediate area such as a new university, express roads, etc. either already built or due to be built within the next few years.\n\nProperties sold before they are constructed or completed are referred to as pre-sale properties or pre-sales in Canada.\n\nIn a rapidly rising housing market, buying off-plan enables investors and home buyers to buy a property at a lower price than if they wait for construction of their chosen property to commence. In addition, buying off-plan may be the only way to get a property with a specific location or set of features as choice may be limited once construction starts.\n\nBuying a property off-plan, whether to use as a home as an investment, incurs more risks than buying a property that has already been built.\n\n"}
{"id": "41658852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41658852", "title": "Otonabee Region Conservation Authority", "text": "Otonabee Region Conservation Authority\n\nThe Otonabee Region Conservation Authority (ORCA), sometimes shortened to Otonabee Conservation, is a conservation authority in Ontario, Canada. Established in 1959 and based in Peterborough, its member municipalities include Asphodel-Norwood, Cavan-Monaghan, Douro-Dummer, City of Kawartha Lakes, Otonabee–South Monaghan, City of Peterborough, Selwyn, and Trent Hills. Major watercourses within the watershed administered by ORCA include the Otonabee, Indian, and Ouse rivers, and Baxter, Cavan, Jackson, Miller and Squirrel creeks.\n\nIn addition to the listed Conservation Areas, ORCA operates the campground area of Beavermead Park under agreement with the City of Peterborough.\n"}
{"id": "53748198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53748198", "title": "Panama Papers case", "text": "Panama Papers case\n\nThe Panama Papers case (officially titled Imran Ahmed Khan Niazi v. Mian Muhammad Nawaz Sharif), or the Panamagate case, was a landmark decision by the Supreme Court of Pakistan that disqualified incumbent Prime Minister of Pakistan Nawaz Sharif from holding public office.\n\nOpposition politicians Imran Khan and Sheikh Rasheed petitioned the court in the aftermath of the Panama Papers leak, which uncovered links between the Sharif family and eight offshore companies. The Court initially ordered the formation of a joint investigation team (JIT) to inquire into allegations of money laundering, corruption, and contradictory statements by Sharif and his relations in a 3–2 split decision on 20 April 2017, with the dissenting judges ruling that Sharif be disqualified. After the JIT submitted its report and subsequent arguments were heard, the Court disqualified Sharif from holding public office by unanimous verdict.\n\nThe case has been described as the most publicized in Pakistan's history, as well as a \"defining moment\" for the country.\n\nOn 3 April 2016 the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) made 11.5 million secret documents, later known as the Panama Papers, available to the public. The documents, sourced from Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca, among other revelations about other public figures in many other countries, included details of eight offshore companies with links to the family of Nawaz Sharif, the then-incumbent Prime Minister of Pakistan, and his brother Shehbaz Sharif, the incumbent Chief Minister of Punjab. \nAccording to the ICIJ, Sharif's children Maryam Nawaz, Hassan Nawaz and Hussain Nawaz \"were owners or had the right to authorise transactions for several companies\". Mossack Fonseca records tied the children to four offshore companies, Nescoll Limited, Nielson Holdings Limited, Coomber Group Inc., and Hangon Property Holdings Limited.\nThe companies acquired luxury real estate in London from 2006 to 2007. The real estate was collateral for loans of up to $13.8 million, according to the leaked Panama Papers.\n\nFacing growing criticism, Sharif announced the formation of a judicial commission under a retired judge of the Supreme Court of Pakistan, in a nationwide address on 5 April 2016. However, former justices Tassaduq Hussain Jillani, Nasir-ul-Mulk, Amir-ul-Mulk Mengal, Sahir Ali, and Tanvir Ahmad Khan all refused to participate and no commission was formed. The federal government remained committed to forming a commission, negotiating its terms of reference with opposition parties Pakistan People's Party and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf. In a second address on 22 April 2016, Sharif announced he would resign if proven guilty. The latter effort failed when Chief Justice of Pakistan Anwar Zaheer Jamali, cited broad, open-ended terms of reference and the limited scope of the law in this area, and declined to form \"a toothless commission, which will serve no useful purpose.\"\n\nIn a televised address to the National Assembly of Pakistan on 16 May 2016, Sharif suggested forming a joint committee to draft the terms of reference for establishing a judicial commission. He said he was not afraid of accountability, while criticizing opposition figures: \"Today, people living in bungalows and commuting in helicopters are accusing me of misconduct. Can they explain before the nation as to how they earned all this money and how much tax they paid?\" In his speech, Sharif said he would clear the air about the London flats, but did not return to the subject. He reiterated that the flats had been purchased with money earned from the sale of Jeddah Steel Mills, which had belonged to his father. Later, Sharif omitted any reference to his family's business connections with the Qatari royal family during his 16 May speech, inviting allegations of contradictory statements.\n\nFollowing Sharif's speech, PTI chairman Imran Khan filed a petition through counsel Naeem Bokhari with the Supreme Court of Pakistan on 29 August 2016, seeking Sharif's disqualification as prime minister and as a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan. Other political leaders including Sheikh Rashid Ahmed of Awami Muslim League, and Siraj-ul-Haq of Jamat-e-Islami, also expressed support for the petition. It targeted Sharif's children, his son-in-law Muhammad Safdar, and his brother-in-law and the incumbent finance minister Ishaq Dar as well. PTI workers staged a sit-in outside Sharif's private residence at Raiwind near Lahore on 30 September 2016. Khan subsequently called on supporters to \"lock-down\" Islamabad until Nawaz Sharif \"resigned or presented himself for accountability\".\n\nThe court's initial five-member bench for hearing the case was headed by Chief Justice Jamali and comprised Justices Asif Saeed Khan Khosa, Amir Hani Muslim, Sh. Azmat Saeed, and Ijaz-ul-Ahsan. The hearings began 1 November 2016. PTI leader Imran Khan was represented by Bokhari and Hamid Khan. Legal counsel for Sharif and his children were senior lawyers Salman Aslam Butt and Akram Sheikh. The court also accepted additional petitions filed by other opposition figures, including Jamaat-e-Islami leader Siraj-ul-Haq and Sheikh Rashid Ahmad. In their reply, Sharif lawyers Butt and Shoaib Rashid informed the bench that though they owned properties abroad, Hassan and Hussain Nawaz had been running a business lawfully for decades, that Maryam Nawaz was not dependent on her father, nor was she the beneficial owner of the cited offshore companies, Nielsen and Nescoll, but a trustee. Justice Khosa required counsel to satisfy the bench that the money had been lawfully earned and transferred. The court also questioned the quality of PTI's evidence, with Justice Saeed remarking that newspaper clippings were only good for \"selling pakoras\" the day after publication.\n\nOn 14 November 2016, Sharif lawyer Sheikh dramatically produced a letter written by Hamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani, the Prime Minister of Qatar from 2007 to 2013. The letter, marked private and confidential, read:\n\n[My father Jassim] had longstanding business relations with (Sharif's father) Mian Mohammad Sharif which were coordinated through my eldest brother... Mian Sharif expressed his desire to invest a certain amount of money in the real estate business of Al Thani family in Qatar. I understood at that time, that an aggregate sum of around Dirhams 12 million was contributed by Mian Sharif, originating from the sale of business in Dubai (for four flats: 16, 16A, 17 and 17A Avenfield House, Park Lane, London, registered under the ownership of two offshore companies, while their bearer share certificates were kept in Qatar). These were purchased from the proceeds of the real estate business... I can recall that during his lifetime, Mian Sharif wished that the beneficiary of his investment and returns in the real estate business [should be] his grandson Hussain Nawaz Sharif.\n\nJustice Khosa observed that the document had \"completely changed the public stand of the Prime Minister.\" When asked why Sharif had not mentioned the Qatari letter in his 16 May speech, Butt replied, 'Those were not legal testimonials, rather mere political statements.\" Expressing inability to furnish a \"40-year-old\" money trail, Butt explained that business families at the time conducted transactions over \"parchis\", slips of paper. A second letter written by Al Thani was produced on 26 January 2017, clarifying that the \"investment was made by way of provision of cash which was common practice in the Gulf region at the time of the investment. It was also, given the longstanding relationship between my father and Mr. Sharif, a customary way for them to do business between themselves.\"\n\nFollowing the superannuation and retirement of Chief Justice Jamali in December, a new bench headed by Justice Khosa was formed to hear the case afresh. The bench retained justices Sh. Azmat Saeed and Ijaz-ul-Ahsan, and included justices Ejaz Afzal Khan and Gulzar Ahmed. The Sharif family also reshuffled its legal team: Butt and Sheikh were replaced with Makhdoom Ali Khan, Shahid Hamid, and Salman Akram Raja. The move came following widespread criticism over the team's handling of the case, and the Qatari letter's introduction. On the petitioners' side, lead counsel Hamid Khan too recused himself from arguing the case, claiming, \"I can contest a case in the court, but am unable to indulge in a media war\" after media reports surfaced that the party was unsatisfied with his performance. Fresh hearings resumed on 4 January 2017 with the reconstituted bench, new defence counsel, and a truncated petitioner's side.\n\nThe PTI's case was relitigated entirely by Bokhari, alongside Maleeka Bokhari and Akbar Hussain. Bokhari referred to interviews with different members of the Sharif family, highlighting that each gave differing versions of the ownership structure of the London properties. He argued that the Sharif family had failed to present any record regarding banking transactions, or refer to trust deeds or the Qatari connection earlier. He maintained that Maryam Nawaz had declared her taxable income as zero in tax returns, and remained a dependent on her father. He added that Hussain Nawaz had given Rs. 810 million to his father, without any of it being taxed.\n\nBokhari also highlighted the National Accountability Bureau's failure to pursue its own reference filed against Hudaibiya Paper Mills in 2000, implicating the Sharif family and Ishaq Dar in money laundering in late 1990s.\n\nSharif's lawyer Makhdoom Ali Khan, appeared as lead counsel, assisted by Saad Hashmi and Sarmad Hani. Makhdoom quoted the court's own decision on Article 62 (1)F of the Constitution, under which the petitioners sought Sharif's disqualification, as \"a nightmare of interpretations and feast of obscurities.\" Makhdoom distinguished the case from that of Yusuf Raza Gilani, who was disqualified as prime minister in 2012 for contempt of court. Dismissing the Gilani precedent, Makhdoom argued, \"My Lords you need to look at the background and understand the context of this judgment.\" Regarding Maryam Nawaz's dependence status, Makdhoom maintained she was listed as the prime minister's dependent on tax forms because there was no other column on the sheet.\n\nTo illustrate that it was not difficult to transport 12 million dirhams in cash, Hassan and Hussain Nawaz's counsel Salman Akram Raja placed the novels \"War and Peace\" and \"The Brothers Karamazov\" on top of each other, demonstrating that the thickness of both books, amounting to over 3,000 pages, would be the same as two million dirhams in cash.\n\nThroughout the case, the court questioned the non-functioning of state institutions in pursuing the Panama affair. Muhammad Irshad, Chairman of the Federal Board of Revenue informed the court that notices had been issued to 343 individuals following the Panama Papers leaks, and that Hassan, Hussain and Maryam Nawaz had responded to the notices. FBR lawyer Mohammad Waqar Rana said that no immediate steps had been taken in pursuance of the Panama scandal, arguing that separate laws and institutions were available for money laundering cases. \"So in other words, what you are saying is that the FBR did not take any steps regarding money laundering?\" Justice Gulzar observed. The FBR failed to satisfy the court over actions taken. \"Thank you very much for not assisting the court,\" Justice Khosa admonished the FBR side.\n\nThe NAB (National Accountability Bureau) was represented by Chairman Qamar Zaman Chaudhry and Prosecutor General Waqas Qadeer Dar. During their submissions, the case shifted focus to the Hudaibiya criminal reference filed by NAB earlier. The reference was based on a confession by Ishaq Dar in 2000, admitting to laundering $14.86 million for the Sharif family. Dar had been placed under house arrest at the time by the military regime of Pervez Musharraf, and maintained the confession had been acquired under duress. The case was quashed by the Lahore High Court in 2014, when Dar was finance minister. \"There are reservations regarding NAB's failure to register an appeal,\" the bench remarked. \"When a criminal gets bail in a case of petty theft, NAB registers an appeal. This is a case worth millions and no appeal was registered,\" Justice Khosa observed. Chaudhry restated his decision not to register an appeal. Justice Saeed warned the NAB team to \"be prepared to face serious consequences.\"\n\nThe Attorney-General for Pakistan, Ashtar Ausaf Ali, was put on notice to assist the Court on 22 February 2017. Ausaf, with Asad Rahim Khan and Salaar Shahzaib Khan, submitted that anyone could file an appeal against the Lahore High Court's decision in the Hudaibiya reference, let alone NAB. Justice Saeed commented that NAB had \"died in front of us yesterday\". Ausaf further submitted that the prime minister did not have immunity in Code of Criminal Procedure cases under the Constitution. Ausaf was warned \"not to become a party to the case\" but assist the court.\n\nFollowing Bokhari's rebuttal to the defence case, the petitioners appeared before the bench on 23 February 2017, including Imran Khan, Siraj-ul-Haq, and Sheikh Rashid Ahmad. The Court reserved its judgment on that day.\n\nThe verdict in the case was announced at 2:00 p.m. PST on 20 April 2017. The Supreme Court in a 3–2 decision ruled that there was insufficient evidence to order Sharif's removal from office, but ordered further investigation into corruption allegations. The court ordered the formation of a Joint Investigation Team (JIT) under a three-member special bench, which was later known as the JIT implementation bench. The two dissenting judges on the bench, Justice Asif Saeed Khosa and Justice Gulzar Ahmed, were of the opinion that Sharif had not been honest to the nation and should be disqualified from office.\n\nThe Panama Case JIT had powers to investigate all respondents and related parties, including the prime minister, and was ordered to complete its investigation within 60 days and present its findings to the Supreme Court every 15 days.\n\nThe detailed, 540-page verdict in the case was released on April 20, 2017. It was primarily authored by Justice Ejaz Afzal Khan and was noted for its harsh criticism of state investigative institutions, NAB and the FIA, as well as the government for their handling of the Panama Papers leaks. It chastised the defendants for not being 'completely honest with the court'.\n\nUnder the ruling of the Supreme Court a three-member special implementation bench supervised the JIT, headed by Justice Ejaz Afzal Khan and including Justice Sheikh Azmat Saeed and Justice Ijazul Ahsan. The JIT was formally constituted by the Supreme Court's implementation bench on 6 May 2017. It comprised six members, with the head from FIA:\nThe JIT members were given the authority to engage and associate local and/or foreign experts to facilitate the investigation of Sharif family's offshore assets. The team also received all powers granted by laws relating to investigation, including those available in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, National Accountability Bureau Ordinance, 1999 and the Federal Investigation Agency Act, 1975. The directive also stated that the JIT was acting at the direction of the Supreme Court, and all executive authorities in Pakistan must assist and cooperate with the team.\n\nThe JIT headquarters was in the Federal Judicial Academy, Islamabad, with a working budget of Rs. 20 million. The team was required to submit reports to the Supreme Court fortnightly and to complete its investigations within 60 days of formation.\n\nThe scope of the JIT's investigation included the following ten points, as outlined by the Special Bench of the Supreme Court:\n\nDespite controversies, On 10 July 2017, JIT submitted a 275-page report in the apex court. The report requested NAB to file a reference against Sharif, his daughter Maryam, and his sons under section 9 of National Accountability Ordinance. JIT found that Sharif, his sons and his daughter Maryam Nawaz could not justify their income and assets, adding that Maryam Nawaz had been proved the beneficial owner of Nielsen and Nescoll. The report further stated that Maryam was involved in falsifying evidence before the Supreme Court. The basis for this was the use of the Calibri font, first released to the public in January 2007, in documents said to be from 2006. Among other critical findings was the discovery of an offshore company, FZE Capital, managed by Nawaz Sharif until 2014, and the complete lack of supporting record in the United Arab Emirates related to the sale of Gulf Steel Mill, important to the case as it formed the basis of the 'Qatari letter' money trail.\n\nFollowing the JIT report to the court on 10 July 2017, the Supreme Court began to hear arguments a week later. On 21 July 2017, the court concluded the hearings and reserved its judgement. On 28 July 2017, the court announced its unanimous decision and disqualified the Prime Minister from holding public office, finding that he had been dishonest in not disclosing his employment in the Dubai-based Capital FZE company in his nomination papers. The court also ordered National Accountability Bureau to file a reference against Sharif, his family and his former Finance Minister Ishaq Dar, corruption charges.\n\nFollowing the verdict, Nawaz Sharif was disqualified from serving as Prime Minister, and also as leader of the National Assembly. The NAB was ordered by the court to investigate corruption charges against Sharif, his three children and his son-in-law. Sharif was subsequently barred from public office for life, after the Supreme Court held in \"Sami Ullah Baloch v. Abdul Karim Nousherwani\" that electoral disqualification under Article 62(1)(f) would continue in perpetuity.\n\nOn 6 July 2018, the court sentenced Nawaz Sharif to 10 years imprisonment. The sentence extended to his daughter Maryum Nawaz, and Son-in-Law Retired Captain Safdar, sentencing them to 7 years and 1 year imprisonment.\n\nIn September 2018, Islamabad High Court suspended the verdict as NAB failed to provide any evidence for corruption.\n\n"}
{"id": "15733638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15733638", "title": "Pax Assyriaca", "text": "Pax Assyriaca\n\nThe Pax Assyriaca, Latin for \"the Assyrian peace\", was a relatively long period of peace in the Neo-Assyrian Empire during the 7th century (ca. 700-630/620 B.C.). The term was coined in parallel to \"Pax Romana\". The Neo Assyrian Empire is notorious for its use of brute force to expand and maintain an empire after the Dark Ages of around 911-600 BC. However their rule brought around a time period known as the Pax Assyriaca (700-620 BC). During this time the Neo Assyrian Empire achieved its highest point of success, ranging from Egypt to the West, to the Persian Gulf in the East, and most of the Central Mediterranean area. The economic, political, ideological, and militant development during this period had lasting effects on the events even after the demise of the Assyrian Empire.\n\nThe greatest moments of Assyrian expansion occurred during the rule of Tiglath-pileser III (744-727 BC), who expanded into Mesopotamia, Syria, Anatolia, and Egypt. His reforms of the Assyrian empire maximized military and political efficiency allowing him to establish the Neo Assyrian Empire. He centralized power by weakening Assyrian officials and appointed governors to distribute the already small portion of power left within the empire. He also instituted a larger army with use of tribute soldiers and conquered peoples. After his conquests and those of his sons, Shalmaneser V and Sargon II in Anatolia and Levant, the empire entered a stage of frontier fortification and stabilization known as the Pax Assyriaca. Considering the method of expansion used by the Neo Assyrians of military conquest and demands of tribute of their conquered lands paints the Neo Assyrians in a rather negative light. However, expanding over a large territory it provided stability in power that was not seen previously since many of the local leaders were fighting over that power. With the end of the power struggle in the region, the focus was shifted to the expansion of the economy and general empire building. Neo Assyria held many vassal states that paid tribute to the empire and the more productive and lucrative the states were, the higher the tribute that was paid. Therefore, Assyria found it in its best interest to support the development of not only their empire but those around them.\n\nThough the period is named the \"Assyrian Peace\" there was still some unrest within the empire with many revolts and uprisings and continuation of military expansion. However, the period was noticeably more peaceful and prosperous considering that power was much more stabilized and centralized than ever before under this one political entity. The development of Ekron, one of the five Philistine pentapolis, is a testament to the result of the development that was made possible by the Pax Assyriaca. Ekron Grew prosperous during the Pax Assyriaca after 200 years of decline. The city grew nearly 8 times in size and experienced vast economic expansion. Ekron was the center of production of olive oil for the empire during this period and a large producer of textiles which can be seen with the discoveries of looms and olive oil installments in the area. With findings of more than 115 olive oil installments, Ekron is estimated to produce around 1000 tons of olive oil annually. However, there is no evidence that there was any of either product before the period indicating that the economic growth was caused by the Pax Assyriaca. The large hordes of silver found in excavated Ekron palaces that were constructed by the elite show the extent of the economic prosperity that Ekron was experiencing. The construction of this zone of elites indicates the clear distinction between the higher and lower classes was emerging due to the influx of wealth to those who were in control of the production and management of Ekron's politics and economy. Even after the withdrawal of the Assyrians, the city continued to prosper, indicating the long-lasting effects of the Pax Assyriaca on cities such as Ekron.\n\nThe Assyrian relationship with the Phoenicians during this period further contributed to the economic development of Neo Assyria. Phoenicia was another vassal state that paid tribute to the Neo Assyrians. As a major economic factor in the area, the Phoenicians conducted trade within the empire bringing wine, lumber, ivory, metals, and ideas thanks to the extensive maritime network they had established. Becoming a major source of resources, Phoenicians had to find new means in order to supply the large demand of the large Assyrian Empire resulting in Phoenician expansion in order to obtain colonies to gain more resources. The Phoenicians were instrumental in the trade of iron throughout the Mediterranean as they controlled 3 iron producing cities: Cyprus, Cilicia, and Crete. Due to their extensive trade networks, the Phoenicians were able to connect Greece and Mesopotamia in trade of not only goods but ideas that would result in the spread of the Assyrian alphabet, art, and architecture towards the west.\n\nDuring the rule of Tigleth-pileser III, power within the Assyrian Empire was centralized as high-ranking officials lost their powers. Generals had carried out personal conquests without the consultation of the king, but with the implementations on the reforms, those officials were stripped of power. Governors were implemented to rule over small provinces in order to spread out whatever power the king himself didn't hold in order to prevent dynastic rule within the provinces. Tiglath-pileser also officially implemented the use of foreigners within his army. He used the people he conquered to expand his army and resulted in addition of cavalry and chariots. Foreign soldiers were the army's infantry light infantry while native Assyrians were the cavalry and chariots.\n\nThe Assyrians were rarely directly involved politically among their vassal states and in some parts of their empire. There is no evidence that shows a demand for religious participation at the local level or a demand for the use of Assyrian language. Payment of tribute and loyalty to the king were the only real requirements on the local level. The rather weak political system used by the Assyrians made it hard for the empire to be held together for long without revolt and uprising and would make it easier for an opposing force to remove an empire that was so disconnected from its peoples.\n\nThough it may have been called the \"Assyrian Peace\", Neo Assyria dealt with revolts and had further military expansion of its kingdom during this period. Babylon had multiple uprisings throughout its time under the Neo Assyrians until it was eventually destroyed by Sennacherib in 689 BC to prevent it from rebelling again. It was, however, rebuilt by his son Esarhaddon, and eventually led the rebellion against the Neo Assyrians that succeed in destroying the Assyrian capital Nineveh. The end of the Assyrian Empire would also bring about the end of the Pax Assyriaca and the rise of the Neo-Babylonian Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "55037089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55037089", "title": "Peter Pilz List", "text": "Peter Pilz List\n\nThe Peter Pilz List () is an Austrian political party, founded by the former Green parliamentarian Peter Pilz, which took part in the 2017 legislative election.\n\nPilz resigned from The Greens after he had failed to win a vote for his desired fourth place on the party's list for the upcoming national parliamentary election at the party's federal congress and later declined a candidacy for the sixth place on the list. Subsequently, Pilz formed his own electoral list.\n\nA separate party programme is not planned, but candidates appearing on the list represent \"people the programme\". Peter Pilz claimed that the wants to fight right-wing extremism but also Islamic fundamentalism.\nPilz announced as the first candidates in his list the musician and activist Maria Stern, lawyer and consumer protectionist Peter Kolba, former Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ) politician and animal protectionist Sebastian Bohrn-Mena, entrepreneur Stephanie Cox and lawyer Alfred J. Noll. On 28 July 2017, Green deputies Wolfgang Zinggl and Bruno Rossmann as well as the SPÖ deputy Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber formally left their parties to join the Peter Pilz List. The three want to allow the list to be nominated by the National Council. On 4 August 2017, Renée Schroeder and Hannes Werthner were announced as candidates. They want to engage in the field of science policy. On 18 August 2017 two new candidates were introduced to the nursing sector with the care assistant Teresa Roscher for the care sector and the lawyer Alma Zadic. Up to this date, €200,000 have been collected, of which €98,000 were from Alfred J. Noll and €20,000 from Renée Schroeder. The remaining €82,000 came from small donations.\n\nOn 26 July 2017, the statutes of the political party were deposited with the Federal Ministry of the Interior. The political party, including Peter Pilz, has four members in the National Council. Further recordings are not planned as well as formal activities beyond formal board meetings. According to Peter Pilz, \"there will be no party foundations in practice\". One reason for the founding of the political party was that a pure electoral party can not refer to a party sponsorship needed to establish a platform for citizens' participation. At the same time, Pilz has demanded a reduction in Austrian party support. Pilz would like to finance the election campaign by crowdfunding.\n\nOn 4 November 2017, Pilz resigned his seat in Parliament amid sexual assault allegations.\n\nThe Pilz List won 8 seats with just over 4% of the vote, beating the Greens who failed to pass the 4% threshold and subsequently lost all of their seats.\n\n"}
{"id": "4905289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4905289", "title": "Public health informatics", "text": "Public health informatics\n\nPublic health informatics has been defined as the systematic application of information and computer science and technology to public health practice, research, and learning. It is one of the subdomains of health informatics.\n\nPublic health informatics is defined as the use of computers, clinical guidelines, communication and information systems, which apply to vast majority of public health, related professions, such as nursing, clinical/ hospital care/ public health and medical research.\n\nIn developed countries like the United States, public health informatics is practiced by individuals in public health agencies at the federal and state levels and in the larger local health jurisdictions. Additionally, research and training in public health informatics takes place at a variety of academic institutions.\n\nAt the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in US states like Atlanta, Georgia, the Public Health Surveillance and Informatics Program Office (PHSIPO) focuses on advancing the state of information science and applies digital information technologies to aid in the detection and management of diseases and syndromes in individuals and populations.\n\nThe bulk of the work of public health informatics in the United States, as with public health generally, takes place at the state and local level, in the state departments of health and the county or parish departments of health. At a state health department the activities may include: collection and storage of \"vital statistics\" (birth and death records); collection of reports of communicable disease cases from doctors, hospitals, and laboratories, used for infectious disease surveillance; display of infectious disease statistics and trends; collection of child immunization and lead screening information; daily collection and analysis of emergency room data to detect early evidence of biological threats; collection of hospital capacity information to allow for planning of responses in case of emergencies. Each of these activities presents its own information processing challenge.\n\nSince the beginning of the World Wide Web, public health agencies with sufficient information technology resources have been transitioning to web-based collection of public health data, and, more recently, to automated messaging of the same information. In the years roughly 2000 to 2005 the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, under its National Electronic Disease Surveillance System (NEDSS), built and provided free to states a comprehensive web and message-based reporting system called the NEDSS Base System (NBS). Due to the funding being limited and it not being wise to have fiefdom-based systems, only a few states and larger counties have built their own versions of electronic disease surveillance systems, such as Pennsylvania's PA-NEDSS. These do not provide timely full intestate notification services causing an increase in disease rates versus the NEDSS federal product.\n\nTo promote interoperability, the CDC has encouraged the adoption in public health data exchange of several standard vocabularies and messaging formats from the health care world. The most prominent of these are: the Health Level 7 (HL7) standards for health care messaging; the LOINC system for encoding laboratory test and result information; and the Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED) vocabulary of health care concepts.\n\nSince about 2005, the CDC has promoted the idea of the Public Health Information Network to facilitate the transmission of data from various partners in the health care industry and elsewhere (hospitals, clinical and environmental laboratories, doctors' practices, pharmacies) to local health agencies, then to state health agencies, and then to the CDC. At each stage the entity must be capable of receiving the data, storing it, aggregating it appropriately, and transmitting it to the next level. A typical example would be infectious disease data, which hospitals, labs, and doctors are legally required to report to local health agencies; local health agencies must report to their state public health department; and which the states must report in aggregate form to the CDC. Among other uses, the CDC publishes the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR) based on these data acquired systematically from across the United States.\n\nMajor issues in the collection of public health data are: awareness of the need to report data; lack of resources of either the reporter or collector; lack of interoperability of data interchange formats, which can be at the purely syntactic or at the semantic level; variation in reporting requirements across the states, territories, and localities.\n\nPublic health informatics can be thought or divided into three categories.\n\nThe first category is to discover and study models of complex systems, such as disease transmission. This can be done through different types of data collections, such as hospital surveys, or electronic surveys submitted to the organization (such as the CDC). Transmission rates or disease incidence rates/surveillance can be obtained through government organizations, such as the CDC, or global organizations, such as WHO. Not only disease transmission/rates can be looked at. Public health informatics can also delve into people with/without health insurance and the rates at which they go to the doctor. Before the advent of the internet, public health data in the United States, like other healthcare and business data, were collected on paper forms and stored centrally at the relevant public health agency. If the data were to be computerized they required a distinct data entry process, were stored in the various file formats of the day and analyzed by mainframe computers using standard batch processing.\n\nThe second category is to find ways to improve the efficiency of different public health systems. This is done through various collections methods, storage of data and how the data is used to improve current health problems. In order to keep everything standardized, vocabulary and word usage needs to be consistent throughout all systems. Finding new ways to link together and share new data with current systems is important to keep everything up to date.\n\nStorage of public health data shares the same data management issues as other industries. And like other industries, the details of how these issues play out are affected by the nature of the data being managed.\n\nDue to the complexity and variability of public health data, like health care data generally, the issue of data modeling presents a particular challenge. While a generation ago flat data sets for statistical analysis were the norm, today's requirements of interoperability and integrated sets of data across the public health enterprise require more sophistication. The relational database is increasingly the norm in public health informatics. Designers and implementers of the many sets of data required for various public health purposes must find a workable balance between very complex and abstract data models such as HL7's Reference Information Model (RIM) or CDC's Public Health Logical Data Model, and simplistic, ad hoc models that untrained public health practitioners come up with and feel capable of working with.\n\nDue to the variability of the incoming data to public health jurisdictions, data quality assurance is also a major issue.\n\nFinally, the last category can be thought as maintaining and enriching current systems and models to adapt to overflow of data and storing/sorting of this new data. This can be as simple as connecting directly to an electronic data collection source, such as health records from the hospital, or can go public information (CDC) about disease rates/transmission. Finding new algorithms that will sort through large quantities of data quickly and effectively is necessary as well.\n\nThe need to extract usable public health information from the mass of data available requires the public health informaticist to become familiar with a range of analysis tools, ranging from business intelligence tools to produce routine or ad hoc reports, to sophisticated statistical analysis tools such as DAP/SAS and PSPP/SPSS, to Geographical Information Systems (GIS) to expose the geographical dimension of public health trends.Such analyses usually require methods that appropriately secure the privacy of the health data. One approach is to separate the individually identifiable variables of the data from the rest\n\nThere are a few organizations out there that provide useful information for those professionals that want to be more involved in public health informatics. Such as the American Medical Informatics Association (AMIA). AMIA is for professions that are involved in health care, informatics research, biomedical research, including physicians, scientists, researchers, and students. The main goals of AMIA are to move from ‘bench to bedside’, help improve the impact of health innovations and advance the public health informatics field. They hold annual conferences, online classes and webinars, which are free to their members. There is also a career center specific for the biomedical and health informatics community.\n\nMany jobs or fellowships in public health informatics are offered. The CDC (Center for Disease Control) has various fellowship programs, while multiple colleges/companies offer degree programs or training in this field.\n\nFor more information on these topics, follow the links below:\n\nhttp://www.jhsph.edu/departments/health-policy-and-management/certificates/public-health-informatics/what-is-health-informatics.html\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150406033743/http://www.phii.org/what-we-do\n\n\nSince the late 2000s, data from social media websites such as Twitter and Facebook, as well as search engines such as Google and Bing, have been used extensively in detecting trends in public health.\n\n"}
{"id": "9026026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9026026", "title": "Russian conquest of Siberia", "text": "Russian conquest of Siberia\n\nThe Russian conquest of Siberia took place in the 16th and 17th centuries, when the Khanate of Sibir had become a loose political structure of vassalages that were being undermined by the activities of Russian explorers. Although outnumbered, the Russians pressured the various family-based tribes into changing their loyalties and establishing distant forts from which they conducted raids. To counter this, Kuchum Khan attempted to centralize his rule by imposing Islam on his subjects and reforming his tax-collecting apparatus.\n\nThe Russian conquest of Siberia began in July 1580 when some 540 Cossacks under Yermak Timofeyevich invaded the territory of the Voguls, subjects to Küçüm, the Khan of Siberia. They were accompanied by 300 Lithuanian and German slave laborers, whom the Stroganovs had purchased from the tsar. Throughout 1581, this force traversed the territory known as Yugra and subdued Vogul and Ostyak towns. At this time, they also captured a tax collector of Küçüm.\n\nFollowing a series of Tatar raids in retaliation against the Russian advance, Yermak's forces prepared for a campaign to take Qashliq, the Siberian capital. The force embarked in May 1582. After a three-day battle on the banks of the river Irtysh, Yermak was victorious against a combined force of Küçüm Khan and six allied Tatar princes. On 29 June, the Cossack forces were attacked by the Tatars but again repelled them.\n\nThroughout September 1582, the Khan gathered his forces for a defence of Qashliq. A horde of Siberian Tatars, Voguls and Ostyaks massed at Mount Chyuvash to defend against invading Cossacks. On 1 October, a Cossack attempt to storm the Tatar fort at Mount Chyuvash was held off. On 23 October, the Cossacks attempted to storm the Tatar fort at Mount Chyuvash for a fourth time when the Tatars counterattacked. More than a hundred Cossacks were killed, but their gunfire forced a Tatar retreat and allowed the capture of two Tatar cannons. The forces of the Khan retreated, and Yermak entered Qashliq on 26 October.\n\nKüçüm Khan retreated into the steppes and over the next few years regrouped his forces. He suddenly attacked Yermak on 6 August 1584 in the dead of night and defeated most of his army. The details are disputed with Russian sources claiming Yermak was wounded and tried to escape by swimming across the Wagay River which is a tributary of the Irtysh River, but drowned under the weight of his own chainmail. The remains of Yermak's forces under the command of Mescheryak retreated from Qashliq, destroying the city as they left. In 1586 the Russians returned, and after subduing the Khanty and Mansi people through the use of their artillery they established a fortress at Tyumen close to the ruins of Qashliq. The Tatar tribes that were submissive to Küçüm Khan suffered from several attacks by the Russians between 1584–1595; however, Küçüm Khan would not be caught. Finally, in August 1598 Küçüm Khan was defeated at the Battle of Urmin near the river Ob. In the course of the fight the Siberian royal family were captured by the Russians. However, Küçüm Khan escaped yet again. The Russians took the family members of Küçüm Khan to Moscow and there they remained as hostages. The descendants of the khan's family became known as the Princes Sibirsky and the family is known to have survived until at least the late 19th century. \n\nDespite his personal escape, the capture of his family ended the political and military activities of Küçüm Khan and he retreated to the territories of the Nogay Horde in southern Siberia. He had been in contact with the tsar and had requested that a small region on the banks of the Irtysh River would be granted as his dominion. This was rejected by the tsar who proposed to Küçüm Khan that he come to Moscow and \"comfort himself\" in the service of the tsar. However, the old khan did not want to suffer from such contempt and preferred staying in his own lands to \"comforting himself\" in Moscow. Küçüm Khan then went to Bokhara and as an old man became blind, dying in exile with distant relatives sometime around 1605.\n\nIn order to subjugate the natives and collect yasak (fur tribute), a series of winter outposts (\"zimovie\") and forts (ostrogs) were built at the confluences of major rivers and streams and important portages. The first among these were Tyumen and Tobolsk — the former built in 1586 by Vasilii Sukin and Ivan Miasnoi, and the latter the following year by Danilo Chulkov. Tobolsk would become the nerve center of the conquest. To the north Beryozovo (1593) and Mangazeya (1600–01) were built to bring the Nenets under tribute, while to the east Surgut (1594) and Tara (1594) were established to protect Tobolsk and subdue the ruler of the Narym Ostiaks. Of these, Mangazeya was the most prominent, becoming a base for further exploration eastward.\n\nAdvancing up the Ob and its tributaries, the ostrogs of Ketsk (1602) and Tomsk (1604) were built. Ketsk \"sluzhilye liudi\" (\"servicemen\") reached the Yenisei in 1605, descending it to the Sym; two years later Mangazeyan \"promyshlenniks\" and traders descended the Turukhan to its confluence with the Yenisei, where they established the \"zimovie\" Turukhansk. By 1610 men from Turukhansk had reached the mouth of the Yenisei and ascended it as far as the Sym, where they met rival tribute collectors from Ketsk. To ensure subjugation of the natives, the ostrogs of Yeniseysk (1619) and Krasnoyarsk (1628) were established. \nFollowing the khan's death and the dissolution of any organised Siberian resistance, the Russians advanced first towards Lake Baikal and then the Sea of Okhotsk and the Amur River. However, when they first reached the Chinese border they encountered people that were equipped with artillery pieces and here they halted.\n\nThe Russians reached the Pacific Ocean in 1639. After the conquest of the Siberian Khanate (1598) the whole of northern Asia - an area much larger than the old khanate - became known as Siberia and by 1640 the eastern borders of Russia had expanded more than several million square kilometres. In a sense, the khanate lived on in the subsidiary title \"Tsar of Siberia\" which became part of the full imperial style of the Russian Autocrats.\n\nThe conquest of Siberia also resulted in the spread of diseases. Historian John F. Richards wrote: \"... it is doubtful that the total early modern Siberian population exceeded 300,000 persons. ... New diseases weakened and demoralized the indigenous peoples of Siberia. The worst of these was smallpox \"because of its swift spread, the high death rates, and the permanent disfigurement of survivors.\" ... In the 1650s, it moved east of the Yenisey, where it carried away up to 80 percent of the Tungus and Yakut populations. In the 1690s, smallpox epidemics reduced Yukagir numbers by an estimated 44 percent. The disease moved rapidly from group to group across Siberia.\"\n\nUpon arrival in an area occupied by a tribe of natives, the Cossacks entered into peace talks with a proposal to submit to the White Tsar and to pay yasak, but these negotiations did not always lead to successful results. When their entreaties were rejected, the Cossacks elected to respond with force. At the hands of people such as Vasilii Poyarkov in 1645 and Yerofei Khabarov in 1650 some peoples, including the Daur, were slaughtered by the Russians. 8,000 out of a previous population of 20,000 in Kamchatka remained after being subjected to half a century by Cossacks. The Daurs initially deserted their villages since they heard about the cruelty of the Russians the first time Khabarov came. The second time he came, the Daurs decided to do battle against the Russians instead but were slaughtered by Russian guns. In the 17th century, indigenous peoples of the Amur region were attacked by Russians who came to be known as \"red-beards\". \n\nIn the 1640s the Yakuts were subjected to murderous expeditions during the Russian advance into the land near the Lena river, and on Kamchatka in the 1690s the Koryak, Kamchadals, and Chukchi were also subjected to this by the Russians according to Western historian Stephen Shenfield. When the Russians did not obtain the demanded amount of yasak from the natives, the governor of Yakutsk, Piotr Golovin, who was a Cossack, used meat hooks to hang the native men. In the Lena basin, 70% of the Yakut population declined within 40 years, rape and enslavement were used against native women and children in order to force the natives to pay the Yasak.\n\nIn Kamchatka the Russians savagely crushed the Itelmens uprisings against their rule in 1706, 1731, and 1741, the first time the Itelmen were armed with stone weapons and were badly unprepared and equipped but they used gunpowder weapons the second time. The Russians faced tougher resistance when from 1745-56 they tried to exterminate the gun and bow equipped Koraks until their victory. The Russian Cossacks also faced fierce resistance and were forced to give up when trying unsuccessfully to wipe out the Chukchi through genocide in 1729, 1730-1, and 1744-7. After the Russian defeat in 1729 at Chukchi hands, the Russian commander Major Pavlutskiy was responsible for the Russian war against the Chukchi and the mass slaughters and enslavement of Chukchi women and children in 1730-31, but his cruelty only made the Chukchis fight more fiercely. A genocide of the Chukchis and Koraks was ordered by Empress Elizabeth in 1742 to totally expel them from their native lands and erase their culture through war. The command was that the natives be \"totally extirpated\" with Pavlutskiy leading again in this war from 1744-47 in which he led to the Cossacks \"with the help of Almighty God and to the good fortune of Her Imperial Highness\", to slaughter the Chukchi men and enslave their women and children as booty. However the Chukchi ended this campaign and forced them to give up by killing Pavlitskiy and decapitating him. The Russians were also launching wars and slaughters against the Koraks in 1744 and 1753-4. After the Russians tried to force the natives to convert to Christianity, the different native peoples like the Koraks, Chukchis, Itelmens, and Yukagirs all united to drive the Russians out of their land in the 1740s, culminating in the assault on Nizhnekamchatsk fort in 1746. Kamchatka today is European in demographics and culture with only 2.5% of it being native, around 10,000 from a previous number of 150,000, due to the mass slaughters by the Cossacks after its annexation in 1697 of the Itelmen and Koryaks throughout the first decades of Russian rule. The killings by the Russian Cossacks devastated the native peoples of Kamchatka. In addition to committing genocide the Cossacks also devastated the wildlife by slaughtering massive numbers of animals for fur. 90% of the Kamchadals and half of the Vogules were killed from the eighteenth to nineteenth centuries and the rapid genocide of the indigenous population led to entire ethnic groups being entirely wiped out, with around 12 exterminated groups which could be named by Nikolai Iadrintsev as of 1882. Much of the slaughter was brought on by the fur trade.\n\nAccording to Western historian James Forsyth, Aleut men in the Aleutians were subjects to the Russians for the first 20 years of Russian rule, as they hunted for the Russians while Aleut women and children were hold as captives as a means to maintain this relationship.\n\nThe oblastniki in the 19th century among the Russians in Siberia acknowledged that the natives were subjected to immense genocidal exploitation, and claimed that they would rectify the situation with their proposed regionalist policies.\n\nThe Russian colonization of Siberia and conquest of its indigenous peoples has been compared to European colonization in the United States and its natives, with similar negative impacts on the natives and the appropriation of their land. The Slavic Russians outnumber all of the native peoples in Siberia and its cities except in the Republic of Tuva, with the Slavic Russians making up the majority in the Buriat Republic, and Altai Republics, outnumbering the Buriat, and Altai natives. The Buriat make up only 29,51% of their own Republic, and the Altai only one-third; the Chukchi, Evenk, Khanti, Mansi, and Nenets are outnumbered by non-natives by 90% of the population. The natives were targeted by the tsars and Soviet policies to change their way of life, and ethnic Russians were given the natives' reindeer herds and wild game which were confiscated by the tsars and Soviets. The reindeer herds have been mismanaged to the point of extinction.\n\nThe Ainu have emphasized that they were the natives of the Kuril islands and that the Japanese and Russians were both invaders. In 2004, the small Ainu community living in Kamchatka Krai wrote a letter to Vladimir Putin, urging him to reconsider any move to award the Southern Kuril islands to Japan. In the letter they blamed both the Japanese, the Tsarist Russians and the Soviets for crimes against the Ainu such as killings and assimilation, and also urged him to recognize the Japanese genocide against the Ainu people, which was turned down by Putin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "865176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865176", "title": "Signoria of Florence", "text": "Signoria of Florence\n\nThe Signoria was the government of medieval and renaissance Florence. Its nine members, the \"Priori\", were chosen from the ranks of the guilds of the city: six of them from the major guilds, and two from the minor guilds. The ninth became the Gonfaloniere of Justice. \n\nThe names of all guild members over thirty years old were put in eight leather bags called \"borse\". Every two months, these bags were taken from the church of Santa Croce, where they were ordinarily kept, and in a short ceremony drawn out at random. Only men who were not in debt, had not served a recent term, and had no relation to the names of men already drawn, would be considered eligible for office.\n\nImmediately after they were elected, the nine were expected to move into the Palazzo della Signoria, where they would remain for the two months of their office. There they were paid a modest sum to cover their expenses and were provided with green-liveried servants. The \"Priori\" had a uniform of crimson coats, lined with ermine and with ermine collars and cuffs.\n\nIn undertaking their governmental duties, the Signoria was required to consult two other elected councils collectively known as \"Collegi\". The first was the \"Dodici Buonomini\", with twelve members, while the second, the \"Sedici Gonfalonieri\", consisted of sixteen people. Other councils, such as the Ten of War, the Eight of Security and the Six of Commerce, were elected as the need arose.\n\n"}
{"id": "58667608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58667608", "title": "Slave Kidnapping Act of 1866", "text": "Slave Kidnapping Act of 1866\n\nThe Slave Kidnapping Act of 1866 was an act passed in the United States that punished a person who carried away another person, without their consent, into a forced form of servitude. The punishment for this crime consisted of a fine of five hundred to five thousand dollars and/or five years in prison.\n"}
{"id": "2084240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2084240", "title": "Tribunat", "text": "Tribunat\n\nThe Tribunat was one of the four assemblies set up in France by the Constitution of Year VIII (the other three were the Council of State, the Corps législatif and the Sénat conservateur). It was set up officially on 1 January 1800 at the same time as the \nCorps législatif. Its first president was the historian Pierre Daunou, whose independent spirit led to his dismissal from the post by Napoleon Bonaparte in 1802. The Tribunat assumed some of the functions of the Council of Five Hundred, but its role consisted only of deliberating projected laws before their adoption by the Corps législatif, with the legislative initiative remaining with the Council of State.\n\nAs with elections to the Corps législatif, members of the Tribunat were not elected by direct universal suffrage. They were chosen via a complex process by the Senate from the \"national lists of notables\" (\"listes nationales de notabilités\") set up following a series of votes \"en cascade\" - the citizens would first elect \"communal notables\" from one tenth of their number, who would choose \"departmental notables\" from one tenth of their number, who would in turn choose \"national notables\" from another one tenth of their number.\n\nThe Tribunat's function was to send three orators to discuss proposed laws with government orators in the presence of the Corps législatif. It could not vote on such laws, but its decisions did have some consequence, if only as a consultative opinion, with the final decision always coming back as a last resort to the First Consul, who might or might not take the Tribunat's opinion into account. The Tribunat could also ask the Senate to overturn \"the lists of eligibles, the acts of the Legislative Body and those of the government\" on account of unconstitutionality, but the Tribunat's opinion was, once again, non-binding.\n\nShortly after the coup d'état of 18 Brumaire, the Tribunat became a focus of opposition to the regime the First Consul was in the process of setting up. Also, on 7 January, Benjamin Constant entered the Tribunat and, in a speech that made him leader of the opposition, denounced \"the regime of servitude and silence\" Bonaparte was preparing. The Tribunat was made up of liberal personalities like Constant, whose independent point of view Bonaparte saw as prejudicial to the public order and political unity he was trying to establish. Thus it was first purged after its opposition to the projected Code civil in 1802 (a purge made possible by a manoeuvre - the Tribunat was partially renewed at the regular interval, but it was unknown who in the Tribunat would be the first to be removed, and therefore Napoleon chose his opponents), then suppressed by a decree of the Senate in 1807, with its remaining functions and members absorbed into the Corps législatif.\n\nIt is notable that the Corps législatif tended to reinforce the powers of the executive. The introduction of the plebiscite, reducing the chambers' legitimacy and thus their power, had the same aim. The Tribunat was an organ intended to improve separation of powers, but the way that the separation of powers was structured did not let the Tribunat run effectively.\n\nThe Constitution of Year VIII organised the Tribunat:\n\nThe Constitution of 16 thermidor year X (4 August 1802) foresaw:\n\nThe Constitution of the Year XII stated that:\n\n"}
{"id": "56098481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56098481", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Third Committee", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Third Committee\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly Third Committee (also known as the Social, Cultural, and Humanitarian Committee or SOCHUM) is one of six main committees at the General Assembly of the United Nations. It deals with human rights, humanitarian affairs and social matters.\n\nThe Third Committee meets every year in early October and aims to finish its work by the end of November. All 193 member states of the UN can attend.\n\nThe work of the Committee focuses on human rights, humanitarian affairs and social issues. In addition, it also considers issues relating to:\n\nThe work of the Third Committee begins in early October and usually ends by Thanksgiving. \n\nUnlike most other bodies of the General Assembly, the work of the Third Committee does not begin with a general debate between its members. Instead, its agenda items are debated individually from the beginning of the session.\n\nThe Third Committee hosts interactive dialogues with the High Commissioner for Human Rights and the High Commissioner for Refugees each year.\n\nIn its 73rd Session, the Committee will focus on: \n\nThe following make up the bureau of the Third Committee for the 73rd Session of the General Assembly:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21985650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21985650", "title": "Vice President of Uzbekistan", "text": "Vice President of Uzbekistan\n\nThe office of Vice President of Uzbekistan was a political position in Uzbekistan until it was abolished on January 8, 1992.\n\nArticle 96 of the Constitution of Uzbekistan states that should the President of the Republic fail to perform his duties due to poor health, confirmed by a certificate of a State Medical Commission formed by the Supreme Assembly of Uzbekistan (\"Oliy Majlis\"), an emergency session of the \"Oliy Majlis\" shall be held within ten days. The session shall elect an Acting President of the Republic for a term of not more than three months, during which time a presidential election shall be held.\n"}
{"id": "795860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795860", "title": "Yellow socialism", "text": "Yellow socialism\n\nYellow socialism has two meanings. It was an economic system proposed in 1902 by Pierre Biétry, as an alternative to the \"Red socialism\" advocated in Marxism. Yellow socialism was prominent until World War I, competing with Marxism for support among workers. \"Yellow socialism\" was also a Marxist term of abuse for all non-Marxist socialists.\n\nAfter World War I, the term \"yellow socialism\" fell into disuse.\n\nBiétry envisioned workers organizing as part of a capitalist system, forming unions which would operate in parallel with groups of businesses (a structure similar to corporatism). Workers would get a greater share of company profits through negotiation between each union and the corresponding business group. Above this would be a strong authoritarian State.\n\nPierre Biétry had been a member of the Marxist French Workers' Party, but left it in 1900. Disappointed by the failure of \"Red socialism\" to improve the condition of the workers, he now advocated cooperation between organized labor and capitalist businesses. He called this \"Yellow socialism\", as a deliberate contrast to Marxist \"Red socialism\". In 1902, he founded the \"Fédération nationale des Jaunes de France\" (\"National Federation of Yellows of France\" - FNJF). Later, affiliated Swiss and German \"Yellow\" groups formed. All the \"Yellow\" groups were strongly opposed to Marxism.\n\nThe FNJF gained some support among more conservative workers when strikes by unions of the \"Red\" \"Confédération générale du travail\" (CGT) included violence.\n\nIn the next few years, Biétry added anti-semitism to the FNJF program, and the FNJF became entangled with the reactionary French right wing. Some of its members and organizers joined \"Action Française\"; other returned to the CGT. The FNJF held its last congress in 1909. Biétry went to Indochina and died there in 1918.\n\nThe \"Yellow socialist\" label was appropriated by Marxist Reds to describe any socialist whom the Reds considered as on the side of the ruling class: that is, all non-Marxist socialists (\"revisionists\"), whether they used the \"Yellow\" label or not. The Red usage thus included many whose ideas would later be known as social democracy and democratic socialism, concepts very different from those of Biétry.\n\nIn the United States, \"Yellow socialism\" was associated with the business unionism of Samuel Gompers (and thus described as \"Yellow unionism\"). Business unionism was based on the belief that the workers' best option was to form a labor cartel within a capitalist society.\n\nMarxists criticized \"Yellow\" socialists and unionists for nationalism, and also for perceived occasional engagement in ethnic and racial chauvinism. This was seen in \"Yellow\" opposition to immigration, because competition from immigrants reduced wages or took jobs from native-born workers, and sometimes even racism including anti-Semitism.\n\nIn Europe, during World War I, Marxists associated the social democratic parties with \"Yellow socialism\", as they supported their own nations in the war rather than taking an internationalist position against the conflict. However, these parties had no connection to Biétry's thinking.\n\nThe \"Berne International\", formed in Zimmerwald in 1915, was similarly described as \"Yellow socialist\" by Lenin for its rejection of revolutionary socialism, despite its opposition to the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "129905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129905", "title": "Zoar, Ohio", "text": "Zoar, Ohio\n\nZoar is a village in Tuscarawas County, Ohio, United States. The population was 169 at the 2010 census. The community was founded in 1817 by German religious dissenters as a utopian community, which survived until 1853.\n\nMuch of the village's early layout survives, as do many buildings from its utopian origins. Most of the community was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1969 as the Zoar Historic District, and was designated a National Historic Landmark District in 2016. Some of the historic buildings are now operated as museum properties.\n\nZoar was founded by German religious dissenters called the Society of Separatists of Zoar in 1817. It was named after the Biblical village to which Lot and his family escaped from Sodom. It was a communal society, with many German-style structures that have been restored and are part of the Zoar Village State Memorial. There are presently ten restored buildings. According to the Ohio Historical Society, Zoar is an island of Old-World charm in east-central Ohio.\n\nThe Separatists, or Zoarites, emigrated from the kingdom of Württemberg in southwestern Germany due to religious oppression from the Lutheran church. Leading among their group were some natives of Rottenacker on the Danube. Having separated from the established church, their theology was based in part on the writings of Jakob Böhme. They did not practice baptism or confirmation and did not celebrate religious holidays except for the Sabbath. A central flower garden in Zoar is based on the Book of Revelation with a towering tree in the middle representing Christ and other elements surrounding it representing other allegorical elements.\n\nThe leader of the society was named Joseph Bimeler (also known as Joseph Bäumler or Bäumeler, born 1778), a pipemaker as well as teacher from Ulm. His charismatic leadership carried the village through a number of crises. Bimeler led the society until his death, which occurred in 1853.\n\nAn early event critical to the success of the colony was the digging of the Ohio and Erie Canal. The Zoarites had purchased of land sight unseen and used loans to pay for it. The loans were to be paid off by 1830. The Society struggled for many years to determine what products and services they could produce in their village to pay off the loans. The state of Ohio required some of the Zoarite land to be used as a right of way and offered the Zoarites an opportunity to assist in digging the canals for money. The state gave them a choice of digging it themselves for pay or having the state pay others to dig the canal. The Zoarites then spent several years in the 1820s digging the canal and thus were able to pay off their loans on time with much money to spare.\n\nBimeler's death on August 31, 1853 led to a slow decline in the cohesion of the village. By 1898, the village voted to disband the communal society and the property was divided among the remaining residents.\n\nZoar is located at (40.613102, -81.421686), along the Tuscarawas River.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of , of which is land and is water.\n\nZoar is located at Mile Post 84.5 on the main line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway between Cleveland and Wheeling, West Virginia, which parallels the Tuscarawas River for much of its length.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 169 people, 77 households, and 58 families residing in the village. The population density was . There were 85 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the village was 98.2% White, 0.6% Asian, and 1.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.6% of the population.\n\nThere were 77 households of which 19.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 66.2% were married couples living together, 7.8% had a female householder with no husband present, 1.3% had a male householder with no wife present, and 24.7% were non-families. 20.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 2.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.19 and the average family size was 2.50.\n\nThe median age in the village was 52.6 years. 10.1% of residents were under the age of 18; 6.5% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 14.8% were from 25 to 44; 42.6% were from 45 to 64; and 26% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the village was 52.1% male and 47.9% female.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 193 people, 79 households, and 62 families residing in the village. The population density was 350.8 people per square mile (135.5/km²). There were 81 housing units at an average density of 147.2 per square mile (56.9/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 97.93% White, 1.04% Asian, and 1.04% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.52% of the population.\n\nThere were 79 households out of which 22.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 68.4% were married couples living together, 10.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 20.3% were non-families. 17.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 2.73.\n\nIn the village, the population was spread out with 20.2% under the age of 18, 5.7% from 18 to 24, 18.7% from 25 to 44, 42.5% from 45 to 64, and 13.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 48 years. For every 100 females there were 89.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 87.8 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $46,964, and the median income for a family was $55,625. Males had a median income of $45,417 versus $33,750 for females. The per capita income for the village was $22,828. About 3.6% of families and 3.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 5.4% of those under the age of 18 and none of those 65 and older.\n\nThe future of the village is threatened because a Tuscarawas River levee that protects the village has been given the lowest safety rating by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The village sits at the base of the levee, which was built by the Corps in 1936 as part of its water management program in the region.\n\nWith the levee in failing condition, the Corps was evaluating three alternatives: \n\nThe Zoar Village Government and the Zoar Community Association are working to preserve the Village where it stands and have created the Save Historic Zoar Association.\n\nInitial Corps estimates, as of mid-2012, put the cost of repairing the levee at about $130 million, slightly less than $1 million per resident. In June 2012 the National Trust for Historic Preservation placed Zoar on its annual list of \"America's eleven most endangered historic places.\"\n\nIn November 2013 the Corps, following further review, reclassified the levee's safety rating from 1 (lowest) to Dam Safety Action Classification 3, meaning the possibility of failure is moderate to high. An expedited full evaluation is to occur within a year. In so doing, the Corps also dropped the option of breaching the levee from the list of solutions being considered, and study options for repairing the existing levee, thereby significantly reducing the likelihood that the village will have to be destroyed or relocated.\n\nAfter fleeing from Germany, due to the financing of their emigration and the settling in Ohio, the settlers needed help. The Quakers in both Great Britain and Philadelphia were able to aid in their goals. The Quakers had much in common with them, like their similar ideas of pacifism and religion. In 1817, the settlers bought roughly 5,500 acres of land from Godfrey Haga. The Quakers loaned them money to support part of the purchase. Joseph Bimeler vowed to pay $15,000, the remaining balance of the purchase, off within 15 years. The following years of the society was not met with economic prosperity. In the early years of the village, community leaders required celibacy among their residents. The additional cost of bearing many children in a communal society was too large. In the 1830s, the Ohio and Erie Canal was being constructed. To accumulate money from the state, Zoarites constructed part of the Canal on their own, and received $21,000 from the state. During this period, blacksmithing and tin shops were flourishng in the village, as well as flour and wool mills.  In 1853, after Joseph Bimeler's passing, the village was worth around $5 million. Preceding Joseph Bimeler's death, the village peaked. After 1853, the village began it's decline. In its dissolution in 1898, there were 222 members of the community with an estimated worth of $3.5 million.\n\nAs construction of the village began, the buildings were subsequently numbered in the order that they were built. Many of the original buildings are still completely original.\n\nOriginally built, in 1835, to house the elders of the village, Joseph Bimeler and his family made this building their home.\n\nThe town hall for the Society was built in 1887. Since the Society disbanded in 1898, this building was actually one of the last ones to be constructed. Restoration of town hall took place in 2002 with help from private funds. The lower level is used as a governmental chamber and the two upper floors house artifacts that were commonly used throughout the village.\n\nBuilt in 1833, the hotel is said to have been a home for anyone- rich or poor. President William McKinley had a favorite room here, even. He is said to have enjoyed the German cuisine and he favored staying here. It is currently only open on special occasions, unlike most other museum buildings. Renovations have been made on the outside of the hotel, but the inside is worn down and unsafe for regular use. The preservation committee, Zoar Community Association, is currently waiting on funding for inside renovation.\n\n\n"}
