{"id": "39225135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39225135", "title": "2013 Moscow psychiatric hospital fire", "text": "2013 Moscow psychiatric hospital fire\n\nThe 2013 Moscow psychiatric hospital fire occurred on 26 April 2013 at 2:30 am Moscow Time (22:30 UTC). At least 38 people were killed, included 36 patients and two doctors after fires tore through a psychiatric hospital outside Moscow in the village of Ramenskyon, 70 miles north of Moscow in Moscow Oblast on April 26, 2013. 29 people were burned alive, killing some patients in their beds and others who were trapped by barred windows. Only 3 people survived, including 2 patients and a nurse.\n\nThe fire broke out on the 26th April 2013 at 2:30 Moscow Time (22:30 UTC) in a psychiatric hospital near Moscow in a village called Ramenskyon. Ramenskyon is located approximately 70 miles north of Moscow in the Moscow Oblast in European Russia. The fire ignited on the 2nd floor of the 2 story building in a patient's bed. 3 doctors and 1 nurse ran to the bed but were burned alive immediately. The fire raged through the 2nd floor and killed everyone on that floor. 6 minutes later, the 2nd floor collapsed and crushed patients on the ground floor. 4 minutes later, the fire services reached the hospital and spent the next 3 hours extinguishing the blaze. When the fire finally settled in the morning, the fire brigade broke into the building and searched for survivors but only found 3 injured people alive: a nurse on the 1st floor and 2 patients on the ground floor.\n"}
{"id": "46506010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46506010", "title": "A-process", "text": "A-process\n\nA-process refers to the one of the emotional internal processes or responses of the opponent-process theory. The a-process is in large part responsible for the initial, usually fast and immediate emotional reaction to a stimulus.\n\nThere is a peak response to any emotional stimuli which usually occurs rapidly, usually out of shock, but last only as long as the stimuli is present. In a physiological sense the a-process is where the pupils dilate, the heart rate increases, and the adrenaline rushes.\n\nB-Process, however, the other part of opponent-process theory, is after the initial shock, or emotion. A-process and B-process overlap in somewhat of an intermediate area. While a-process is still in effect, b-process starts to rise, ultimately leveling out a-process' initial spike in emotion. A-process ends once the stimulus is terminated, leaves, or ends. Physiological this is where breathing returns to normal, pulse slows back to its normal rate, and heart rate starts to drop.\n\nThe B-process can be thought of as the \"after-reaction\".\n\nOnce B-process has ended, the body returns to homeostasis and emotions rise back to neutral.\n"}
{"id": "11573260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11573260", "title": "Abdelraouf Al-Rawabdeh", "text": "Abdelraouf Al-Rawabdeh\n\nAbdelraouf al-Rawabdeh (; born 18 February 1939 in Irbid) was Prime Minister of Jordan from 4 March 1999 until 19 June 2000, a leading political figure from the north city of Irbid in Jordan.\n\nOn 24 October 2013 he was named President of the Senate. Al-Rawabdeh is the first President of the enlarged Senate, which now has 75 members, where previously there had been 60 members. After his resignation, Al-Rawabdeh was replaced as President of the Senate by Faisal al-Fayez on 25 October 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39568580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39568580", "title": "Accident Care and Transport Service", "text": "Accident Care and Transport Service\n\nAccident Care and Transport Service or ACTS (Malayalam: ആക്ട്‌സ് )is a voluntary organisation providing free emergency assistance to accident victims in Thrissur city and Thrissur District of India. \nACTS was founded on 8 May 2000, under the leadership of Fr. Davis Chiramel with the support of Alkesh Kumar Sarma, then District Collector of Thrissur District, and civic leaders. Till 2014, ACTS has 17,000 members in 15 branches, 130 units and has 15 ambulances.\n\nThe Supreme Court appointed K Skandan Committee for making comprehensive guideline for \"Good Samaritans\" has appraised the role for Accident Care and Transport Service for their valuable contribution to the society. In its report submitted to Supreme Court, the Committee has recommended the Thrissur model of \"Good Samaritans\". If the recommendations are accepted by the apex court, Thrissur Model of \"Good Samaritans\" will be followed all over India.\n"}
{"id": "1944939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944939", "title": "Anti-abortion feminism", "text": "Anti-abortion feminism\n\nAnti-abortion feminism or pro-life feminism is the opposition to abortion by some feminists who believe that the principles which inform their support of women's rights also call them to support the right to life of prenatal humans. Anti-abortion feminists believe abortion hurts women more than it benefits them.\n\nThe anti-abortion feminist movement began to take shape in the early to mid-1970s with the founding of Feminists for Life (FFL) in the United States and Women for Life in Great Britain amid legal changes in those nations which widely permitted abortion. FFL and the Susan B. Anthony List (SBA List) are the most prominent anti-abortion feminist organizations in the United States. Other feminist pro-life organizations include New Wave Feminists and Feminists for Nonviolent Choices.\n\nAnti-abortion feminists consider the legal option of abortion to \"support anti-motherhood social attitudes and policies and limit respect for women's citizenship\". Anti-abortion feminists believe that abortion is an action dictated by society and legal abortion \"perpetuates an uncaring, male-dominated society.\" Laury Oaks, Associate Professor of Feminist Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara, writes that when abortion is legal, anti-abortion feminists believe, \"women come to see pregnancy and parenting as obstacles to full participation in education and the workplace,\" and describes anti-abortion feminist activism in Ireland as more \"pro-mother\" than \"pro-woman\". Oaks has written that while Irish abortion opponents valorize child-bearing and are critical of the notion that women have \"a right to an identity beyond motherhood\", some, such as Breda O'Brien, founder of Feminists for Life Ireland, also offer feminist-inspired arguments that women's contributions to society are not limited to such functions.\n\nAnti-abortion feminist organizations generally do not distinguish between views on abortion as a legal issue, abortion as a moral issue, and abortion as a medical procedure. Such distinctions are made by many women, for example, women who would not abort their own pregnancies but would prefer that abortion remain legal.\n\nAnti-abortion feminist organizations seek to personalize abortion by using women who \"survived\" abortions to attempt to convince others of their argument.\n\nProminent American anti-abortion feminist organizations seek to end abortion in the U.S. The SBA List states this as their \"ultimate goal\", and FFL President Serrin Foster said that FFL \"opposes abortion in all cases because violence is a violation of basic feminist principles\".\n\nAnti-abortion feminists form a part of the anti-abortion movement rather than the mainstream feminist movement. During the second-wave era of the late 1960s and 1970s the tenets of the emerging group of anti-abortion feminists were rejected by mainstream feminists who held that for full participation in society, a woman's \"moral and legal right to control her fertility\" needed to be a fundamental principle. From their minority position, anti-abortion feminists said that mainstream feminists did not speak for all women.\n\nHaving failed to gain a respected position within mainstream feminism, anti-abortion feminists aligned themselves with other anti-abortion and right to life groups. This placement, according to Oaks, has eroded a feminist sense of identity separate from other anti-abortion groups, despite pro-woman arguments that are distinct from the fetal rights arguments put forward by other anti-abortion advocates.\n\nThe abortion debate has primarily been centered around the question of whether or not the fetus is a person. Anti-abortion feminist organizations do distinguish themselves as \"pro-woman\" organizations as opposed to \"fetal rights\" organizations. This sets them apart from other anti-abortion groups.\n\nThe \"pro-woman\" argument frames abortion as harmful to women. Anti-abortion feminists argue that women do not truly want to have abortions, but rather are forced into abortions by third parties, partners or medical practitioners. These unwanted abortions, they say, cause physical and emotional damage to women. By positing the existence of a \"post-abortion syndrome\" mental condition, which is not medically recognized, anti-abortion feminists reframe opposition to abortion in terms of protecting women's public health. The \"pro-woman\" argument has been used to sway men and women against-abortion.\n\nFeminist anti-abortion groups say they are continuing the tradition of 19th-century women's rights activists such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda Joslyn Gage, Victoria Woodhull, Elizabeth Blackwell, and Alice Paul who considered abortion to be an evil forced upon women by men. The newspaper, \"The Revolution\", published by Susan B. Anthony and Stanton, carried letters, essays and editorials debating many issues of the day, including articles decrying \"child murder\" and \"infanticide.\" According to historians A. Kennedy and K. D. Mary, Alice Paul felt that abortion was the \"ultimate exploitation of women\" and worried about female babies being aborted. Kennedy and Mary also say that Elizabeth Blackwell, the first female doctor in the United States, became a doctor because of her passionate hatred for abortion. By way of criticism, however, sociologists Nicole Beisel and Tamara Kay have written that white Anglo-Saxon Protestants (WASPs) in the US were worried that continued abortions by their kind would endanger their position at the top of society's hierarchy, especially fearing the influx of Irish Catholics, but also concerned about African Americans, and describe Anthony and Stanton as part of this reactionary racial stance.\n\nIn arguing for \"voluntary motherhood\" (abstinence until children are wanted), Stanton said that the problem of abortion demonstrates the victimization of women by men who pass laws without women's consent. Woodhull and her sister argued that abortion clinics would go out of business if voluntary motherhood was widely practiced.\n\nA dispute about Anthony's abortion views arose in 1989: anti-abortion feminists in the U.S. began using Anthony's words and image to promote their anti-abortion cause. Scholars of 19th-century American feminism, as well as pro-choice activists, countered what they considered a co-opting of Anthony's legacy as America's most dedicated suffragist, saying that the anti-abortion activists are falsely attributing opinions to Anthony, and that it is misleading to apply 19th century arguments to the modern abortion debate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51032087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51032087", "title": "Boracay Water", "text": "Boracay Water\n\nBoracay Island Water Company, Inc. (BIWC), branded as Boracay Water, is the joint venture company of Manila Water Company through its subsidiary Manila Water Philippine Ventures (MWPV) and the Philippine Tourism Authority (now Tourism Infrastructure and Enterprise Zone Authority) that delivers potable water service, sewerage service, and eventually, drainage management under a 25-year Concession Agreement to cater the approximately 1,000,000 tourist and 30,000 local residents of Boracay Island, Malay, Aklan, Philippines.\n\nBoracay Water was incorporated on December 7, 2009, and commenced its operations last January 1, 2010. It services the entire Island of Boracay governed by three barangays namely Manoc-Manoc, Balabag, and Yapak, including the commercial districts popularly known as Stations 1, 2 and 3.\n\nBoracay Water was granted the exclusive right to operate, manage, and expand water and used water facilities for a period of 25 years, renewable for another 25 years. The company was also granted the right to operate and maintain the existing drainage system upon its completion. It assumed operations on January 1, 2010 and began rehabilitating the island’s water and used water infrastructure, to contribute to a sustainable environment and to the economic development of the island.\n\nIt helps in keeping the island’s pristine beaches with the rehabilitation of the Balabag Sewage Treatment Plant, a facility that has consistently complied with the stringent pollution control parameters of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) processing 6.5 million liters of used water per day. Used water service coverage is targeted to be raised by 75 percent by 2016.\n"}
{"id": "20893163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20893163", "title": "Breastfeeding in public", "text": "Breastfeeding in public\n\nBreastfeeding in public is the practice of breastfeeding babies in a public or semi-public place in open view of the general public. Social attitudes and legal protection of the practice varies widely. In many countries, both in the Global South and in a number of Western countries, breastfeeding in public is common and generally not regarded as an issue. In those countries, laws protect the nursing mother. In many parts of the world including Australia, some parts of the United States, and Europe, along with some countries in Asia, women have an express legal right to nurse in public and in the workplace. A few countries, such as Saudi Arabia, expressly forbid women to expose their breasts in public, even to breastfeed.\n\nEven though the practice may be legal or socially accepted, some mothers may nevertheless be reluctant to expose a breast in public to breastfeed due to actual or potential objections by other people, negative comments, or harassment. It is estimated that around 63% of mothers across the world have publicly breast-fed. The media have reported a number of incidents in which workers or members of the public have objected to or forbidden women breastfeeding. Some mothers avoid the negative attention and choose to move to another location. But some mothers have protested their treatment, and if the practice is permitted by law, have taken legal action or engaged in protests. Protests have included a public boycott of the offenders business, organizing a \"nurse-in\" or a breastfeeding flash mob, in which groups of nursing mothers gather at the location where the complaint originated and nursed their babies at the same time. In response, some companies have apologised and agreed to train their employees.\n\nIn many areas of Africa breastfeeding in public is the norm. Babies are commonly carried on a mother's back in a length of cloth and merely moved to the front for feeding. The nursing mother may shield the view of the baby nursing, but generally no attempt is made to hide the baby and the mother's breast from view. When a baby is seen crying in public it is assumed that the woman with the infant is not the child's mother, since it is normally thought that she would feed the infant if she were the mother.\n\nPublic breastfeeding is legal and widely accepted.\n\nSierra Leone has the highest infant mortality rate in the world. During a goodwill trip to the country, actress Salma Hayek breastfed on camera a hungry week-old infant whose mother could not produce milk. She said she did it to reduce the stigma associated with breastfeeding and to encourage infant nutrition.\n\nBreastfeeding in public in China has traditionally been uncontroversial, and objection had been unheard of until 2010s. The recent few instances of objection are apparently an effect of magnification of the social media.\n\nIn Shanghai, breastfeeding in public is considered embarrassing by some, but it is also accepted by many. There have been calls for the establishment of babycare facilities in public places.\n\nIndia has no legal statute dealing with breastfeeding. Prevalence and social acceptance vary from region to region.\nIn rural India it is completely acceptable. Breastfeeding in public is not a norm in higher sections of society, but is quite common in the lower economic sections.\n\nDiscreet breastfeeding in public is accepted in Malaysia.\n\nNepal has no laws about public breastfeeding. Public breastfeeding is common and widely accepted. It is not uncommon to see mothers breastfeeding their babies in public places such as buses, parks, restaurants, hospitals etc. in Nepal. In Nepalese society, breastfeeding a child is considered a must for the mothers. Mothers who do not or are unable to breastfeed their child are considered to be 'bokshi' - 'witch', and much social stigma is attached to it.\n\nIn the Philippines, breastfeeding is protected by various laws, such as the \"Expanded Breastfeeding Promotion Act of 2009\" and the \"Milk Code of the Philippines\" (Executive Order 51). Mothers are allowed to breastfeed in public. Employers are required to allow lactating employees breaks to breastfeed or express breastmilk. The law also states that the intervals should not be less than a total of forty (40) minutes for every eight (8) hour working period. Offices, public establishments such as malls and schools, and government institutions are required to establish lactation stations separate from the bathroom, where mothers can breastfeed their babies or express milk. The Milk Code prohibits the advertising of infant formula or bottle teats for infants under two years old.\n\nEven though women can not show any part of their body in public, breastfeeding is an exception. It's common for women to breastfeed in malls and parks, and it is acceptable among the people in Saudi Arabia.\n\nSince November 2010 the \"Public Breastfeeding Act\" has safeguarded the right to breastfeed in public, while lactation rooms are set up to deal with privacy and to provide access to hot water and power supplies, with fines against interfering with a mother's right to breastfeed. After evicting a breastfeeding mother from the National Palace Museum on 18 July 2012 and enraging many Taiwanese website users, the supposedly offending employee and her employer were both fined 6000 new Taiwan dollars (about 200 United States dollars), said the Department of Health, Taipei City Government (), but the Museum would appeal.\n\nPublic breastfeeding is legal and widely accepted.\n\nWhile public breastfeeding is widely accepted, especially since the Movement of 1968 when public \"Nurse-Ins\" () were common, there is no legislation that specifically addresses breastfeeding in public.\n\nParagraph 2 Article 6 of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany provides that \"the care and upbringing of children as the natural right of parents\" while paragraph 4 \"entitles every mother to the protection and care of the community\".\n\nPublic breastfeeding is widespread and uncontroversial.\n\nIn Italy, public breastfeeding is legal and accepted by many. \nPublic breastfeeding is common and widely socially accepted. There are no laws against public breastfeeding.\nDutch law states that when an employee wishes to breastfeed her baby the employer is obligated to provide, for the first nine months after the birth, a suitable nursing room and allow for 25% of work time to be spent on feeding the baby or pumping while on pay. After the first nine months the employer is still required to assure conditions for breastfeeding are met (like timely breaks, nursing rooms, safe environment, etc.) but does not have to pay anymore for the time spent on breastfeeding or pumping.\n\nPublic breastfeeding is widespread and uncontroversial.\n\nPublic breastfeeding is widespread and uncontroversial.\n\nPublic breastfeeding is legal and widely accepted.\n\nBreastfeeding in public (restaurants, cafes, libraries etc.) is protected under the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 under the provision of goods, facilities and services section. If the child is under six months old, the mother has additional protection under a 2008 amendment to the act which protects maternity rights. This is superseded by the Equality Act 2010 which clarifies that a business must not discriminate against a woman who is breastfeeding a child of any age in a public place. Her companion(s) are also protected by this act.\n\nA 2004 UK Department of Health survey found that 84% (about five out of six people) find breastfeeding in public acceptable if done discreetly; however, 67% (two out of three) of mothers were worried about general opinion being against public breastfeeding. To combat these fears in Scotland, the Scottish Parliament passed legislation safeguarding the freedom of women to breastfeed in public in 2005. The legislation allows for fines of up to £2500 for preventing breastfeeding of a child up to the age of two years in public places,\n\nIn 2014 during a ceremony commemorating the Baptism of Jesus, Pope Francis voiced his support for mothers breastfeeding their children in public spaces, including churches. On 9 January 2017 he reiterated his support for public breastfeeding.\n\nIn Canada, Section 28 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms gives equal rights and freedoms to men and women, without explicitly mentioning breastfeeding. INFACT Canada (Infant Feeding Action Coalition) is a national non-governmental organization that aims to protect infant and young child health as well as maternal well-being through the promotion and support of breastfeeding and optimal infant feeding practices. It is an organization that provides support and education for Canadian mothers.\n\nOutside of degrading or dehumanizing purposes, law regards the breasts of women as equal to the breasts of men in Canada. See Topfreedom in Canada.\n\nA woman asked in 2009 at a shop by an employee to stop breastfeeding publicly, supported by a manager, later received an apology and acknowledgement of customers' right to breastfeed. A worker at the YMCA in St. John's told a breastfeeding mother to leave the premises. The mother was feeding her seven-month-old daughter in a private change room, which required a monthly fee. YMCA CEO Jason Brown later apologized, stating \"This situation has caused us to reflect and review, and certainly we see no reason why there should be a restriction to women breastfeed their babies in the adult-only change room.\"\n\nInuit children have the lowest breastfeeding rates amongst Canadian Aboriginal populations, far lower than the Canadian average. According to a 2006 statistics report, 24% of Inuit children have never been breastfed. There have been health promotion programs created in order to increase the knowledge of the benefits of breastfeeding amongst Inuit women.\n\nA number of issues constrain mothers from breastfeeding in public in the United States. In 2011 the US Surgeon General issued a plea to promote breastfeeding and stated in it: \"Although focusing on the sexuality of female breasts is common on the mass media, visual images of breastfeeding are rare, and a mother may never have seen a woman breastfeeding\". Breastfeeding is not only a human right for the mother but also the child in need of being fed. The child's health and human right can only be obtained through breastfeeding the child. Another issue, especially in extended breastfeeding, is that US medical providers are not well-trained in supporting breastfeeding mothers. In a survey of medical professionals published in 2012, including physicians, midwives, residents, and nursing students, only 57.8% felt that breastfeeding over 1 year of age was normal. The recommendations for breastfeeding are until at least one year, yet in 2016 the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that only 51.8% of infants were breastfed at 6 months and 30.7% of infants were being breastfed at 1 year old.\n\nIn a 2004 survey conducted by the American Dietetic Association, 43% of the 3,719 respondents believed women ought to have the right to breast-feed in public. In some public places and workplaces, rooms for mothers to nurse in private have been designated.\n\nU.S. legislation governing breastfeeding varies from state to state and a limited federal law only applies to federal government premises. A United States House of Representatives appropriations bill (HR 2490) contained an amendment specifically permitting breastfeeding was signed into law on September 29, 1999. It stipulated that no government funds may be used to enforce any prohibition on women breastfeeding their children in federal buildings or on federal property. Further, a federal law also enacted in 1999 specifically provides that \"a woman may breastfeed her child at any location in a federal building or on federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized to be present at the location.\"\n\nSection 4207 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act amended the Fair Labor Standards Act and required employers to provide a reasonable break time for an employee to breastfeed her child if it is less than one year old. The employee must be allowed to breastfeed in a private place, other than a bathroom. The employer is not required to pay the employee during the break time. Employers with fewer than 50 employees are not required to comply with the law if doing so would impose an undue hardship to the employer based on its size, finances, nature, or structure of its business.\n\nA number of incidents of harassment of nursing mothers which gained media attention prompted a number of U.S. states to act. These incidents included viral videos of people harassing breastfeeding mothers in public, protests, and social media campaigns. A particular incident with a Target employee harassing a breastfeeding mother helped to launch a new trend with corporations making breastfeeding accepted in their stores.\n\nAs of July 2018, all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and the Virgin Islands have passed legislation that explicitly allows women to breastfeed in public. Further, at least 29 states, the District of Columbia, and the Virgin Islands exempt them from prosecution for public indecency or indecent exposure for doing so.\n\nSection 7AA of the \"Sex Discrimination Act 1984\" specifically prohibits discrimination against a woman on account of her breastfeeding. The prohibition also applies to a public or semi-public place. State and Territory laws differ, but it is generally illegal to discriminate against women breastfeeding in a public place as a protected attribute in five jurisdictions and by proxy from other existing legislation in the other jurisdictions.\n\nThe Australian Breastfeeding Association was founded in Melbourne, Victoria in 1964 as the Nursing Mothers' Association, and together with many health professionals, encourages and assists mothers to breastfeed their babies, if necessary also in a public place.\n\nIn February 2003, Kirstie Marshall, member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly, was ejected from Parliament for breastfeeding her 11-day-old baby on the basis that the baby was \"a stranger\" not entitled to be in the Chamber. As a result, a special room was set up for use by nursing mothers. A 2007 House of Representatives Committee on Health and Ageing report into breastfeeding recommended that Parliament House seek formal accreditation from the Australian Breastfeeding Association as a breastfeeding-friendly workplace. In March 2008 the Presiding Officers agreed to the recommendation and work commenced to provide facilities to assist breastfeeding mothers at Parliament House. Two small rooms were made available, one on each side of Parliament House, for members of parliament and other building occupants to breastfeed or express milk. Certificates of accreditation were provided in a ceremony at the parliament on 17 October 2008.\n\nBreastfeeding is encouraged and public breastfeeding is common. In fact, bottle feeding has been so widely discouraged that public \"bottle\" feeding may make a mother feel more uncomfortable than public breastfeeding. Many shopping centers provide \"parent's rooms\" where mothers may change and feed their infants in comfort.\n\nIn most areas of South America breastfeeding is the norm and public breastfeeding is common in buses, parks, malls, etc. It is less common to see public bottle feeding than breastfeeding. While women are seldom seen nursing in upscale restaurants or on the streets of large cities, nursing is encouraged and thought of as normal and a nursing mother's breasts are not viewed as sexual objects.\n\nUnder the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms women are protected against discrimination, but Canada was one of the only countries that did not have paid breastfeeding breaks. Although over 26% of mothers breastfeed, many of them are forced to stop due to work restrictions.\n\nThere have been incidents of owners of premises, or people present, objecting to or forbidding breastfeeding. In some cases the mothers have left. In other cases, where a law guaranteeing the right to breastfeed has been broken, legal action has been taken. Some companies have even apologised afterward. One woman who was not allowed to breastfeed despite showing the Kentucky law that allows her the right, left but later organized several \"nurse-in\" protests in front of the restaurant and other public places.\n\nIn June 2007, Brooke Ryan was dining in a booth at the rear of an Applebee's restaurant when she began to breastfeed her seven-month-old son. Although she attempted to be discreet, another patron complained to the manager about indecent exposure. Both a waitress and the manager asked her to cover up. She handed him a copy of the Kentucky law that permitted public breastfeeding, but he would not relent. She opted to feed her son in her car, and later organized \"nurse-out\" protests in front of the restaurant and other public locations. Most U.S. states (49 as of September 2015) have laws clarifying a woman's right to breastfeed in public.\n\nIn 2008 a woman in New Orleans put a tent over her truck at a street festival so she could nurse her daughter privately. She was cited by police for an \"unauthorized booth\" and removed from the street festival.\n\nIn 2006, the editors of U.S. \"Babytalk\" magazine received many complaints from readers after the cover of the August issue depicted a baby nursing at a bare breast. Even though the model's nipple was not shown, readers—many of them mothers—wrote that the image was \"gross\". In a follow-up poll, one-quarter of 4,000 readers who responded thought the cover was negative. \"Babytalk\" editor Susan Kane commented, \"There's a huge puritanical streak in Americans.\"\n\nIn June, 2010, a deputy editor for the leading UK parenting magazine \"Mother & Baby\" set off a storm of protest when she described breastfeeding as \"creepy.\" Kathryn Blundell told readers that she bottlefed her child from birth because, \"I wanted my body back [and] to give my boobs at least a chance to stay on my chest rather than dangling around my stomach.\" She upset readers when she wrote about her breasts, \"They're part of my sexuality, too – not just breasts, but fun bags. And when you have that attitude (and I admit I made no attempt to change it), seeing your teeny, tiny, innocent baby latching on where only a lover has been before feels, well, a little creepy.\" The anti-breastfeeding tone of her article prompted six complaints to the British Press Complaints Commission and set off considerable online debate. The magazine also received dozens of messages of support.\n\nIn 2005 US television presenter Barbara Walters remarked on her talk show \"The View\" that she felt uncomfortable sitting next to a breastfeeding mother during a flight. Her comments upset some viewers who began organizing protests over the internet. A group of about 200 mothers staged a public \"nurse in\" where they breastfed their babies outside ABC's headquarters in New York.\n\nIn December, 2011, Michelle Hickman was breastfeeding her infant at the back of a Target store in Houston, Texas. Although covered, she was asked by two employees to move to a fitting room. Hickman said one of the employees told her, \"You can get a ticket and be reported for indecent exposure.\" She reported the harassment on Facebook, and in response a number of mothers organized public \"nurse-ins\" at Target stores across the United States in cities including Houston, Knoxville, and Decatur, Illinois. Trace Gallagher on FoxNews reported on the protest, and female host of \"America Live\" Megyn Kelly commented, “You know, I got a lot of thoughts on this, Trace.” She explained, “Let me just put it this way: I used to feel a lot differently before I had babies and you’re breastfeeding; they need to be fed and then sometimes they don’t like the cover. And before you know it, you're Megyn Kelly and you’re showing your breasts to a whole plane.”\n\nIn 2014 a waiter at Claridge's hotel in Mayfair, London asked Louise Burns to breastfeed under a cloth. Burns was told that it was hotel policy for mothers to cover up while breastfeeding. UK politician and broadcaster Nigel Farage spoke out in support of the hotel's right to have such a policy but the Prime Minister's office at 10 Downing Street said it was \"totally unacceptable for any women to be made to feel uncomfortable when breastfeeding in public\". A group of about 25 mothers held a protest against the policy by breastfeeding outside the hotel. Claridge's subsequently denied that asking breastfeeding mothers to cover up was hotel policy and said that breastfeeding mothers were welcome at the hotel, adding: \"all we ask is that mothers are discreet towards other guests\".\n\nIn May 2012, two Air Force National Guard service members stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington, participated in a breastfeeding awareness campaign hosted by the Mom2Mom of Fairchild Breastfeeding Support Group. Photographer Brynja Sigurdardottir, also a military spouse, staged and photographed Terran Echegoyen-McCabe and Christina Luna breastfeeding in uniform. Crystal Scott, the founder of Mom2Mom, said people thought the photograph was a disgrace to the uniform and compared their actions to defecating or urinating in uniform. Some military personnel felt that it was impossible for a woman to maintain a professional military bearing while nursing in uniform. But some active-duty veteran military members who are also mothers were more supportive, suggesting that the women enhanced the prestige of the military. The photographs quickly went viral and were shared worldwide. To help reduce the controversy, Sigurdardottir removed the photos from her website and Facebook fan page. Her intention was to raise awareness and support for women who breastfeed, inside and outside of the military. When the controversy arose, the message was quickly lost among critics.\n\nWhile the U.S. Air Force did not endorse the pictures, their commanding officer gave the women permission to be photographed in uniform while breastfeeding. The U.S. military protects women in uniform by allowing them to defer deployments for 4 to 12 months after childbirth for breastfeeding purposes. Breastfeeding service members are provided regular breaks to breastfeed or pump while on duty, and are provided with a comfortable and private place to do so.\n\nFacebook has been criticized for removing photos of mothers breastfeeding their children, citing offensive content in violation of the Facebook Terms of Service. Facebook claimed that these photos violated their decency code by showing an exposed breast, even when the baby covered the nipple. This action was described as hypocritical, since Facebook took several days to respond to calls to deactivate a paid advertisement for a dating service that used a photo of a topless model.\n\nThe breastfeeding photos controversy continued following public protests and the growth in the online membership in the Facebook group titled \"Hey, Facebook, breastfeeding is not obscene! (Official petition to Facebook).\" In December 2011 Facebook removed photos of mothers breastfeeding and, after public criticism, restored them. The company said it had removed the photos because they violated the pornographic rules in the company's terms and conditions. During February, 2012, the company once again removed photos of mothers breastfeeding. Founders of a Facebook group \"Respect the Breast\" reported that \"women say they are tired of people lashing out at what is natural and what they believe is healthy for their children.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "675172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675172", "title": "Charles Bell", "text": "Charles Bell\n\nSir Charles Bell (12 November 177428 April 1842) was a Scottish surgeon, anatomist, physiologist, neurologist, artist, and philosophical theologian. He is noted for discovering the difference between sensory nerves and motor nerves in the spinal cord. He is also noted for describing Bell's palsy.\n\nHis three older brothers included Robert Bell (1757–1816) a Writer to the Signet, John Bell (1763–1820), also a noted surgeon and writer; and the advocate George Joseph Bell (1770–1843) who became a professor of law at the University of Edinburgh and a principal clerk at the Court of Session.\n\nCharles Bell was born in Edinburgh on 12 November 1774, as the fourth son of the Reverend William Bell, a clergyman of the Episcopal Church of Scotland. Charles's father died in 1779 when he was five years old, and thus his mother had a profound influence on his early life teaching him how to read and write. In addition to this, his mother also helped Charles’s natural artistic ability by paying for his regular drawing and painting lessons from David Allan, a well-known Scottish painter. Charles Bell grew up in Edinburgh, and attended the prestigious High School (1784-8). Although he was not a particularly good student, Charles decided to follow in his brother John’s footsteps and enter a career in medicine. In 1792, Charles Bell enrolled at the University of Edinburgh and began assisting his brother John as a surgical apprentice. While at the university, Bell attended the lectures of Dugald Stewart on the subject of spiritual philosophy. These lectures had considerable impact on Bell, for some of Stewart’s teachings can be traced in Bell’s later works in a passage on his \"Treatise on the Hand\". In addition to classes on anatomy, Bell took a course on the art of drawing in order to refine his artistic skill. At the university he was also a member of the Royal Medical Society as a student and spoke at the Society's centenary celebrations in 1837.\n\nIn 1798, Bell graduated from the University of Edinburgh and soon after was admitted to the Edinburgh College of Surgeons where he taught anatomy and operated at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. While developing his talents as a surgeon, Bell’s interests forayed into a field combining anatomy and art. His inherent talent as an artist came to the fore when he helped his brother complete a four-volume work called \"The Anatomy of the Human Body\". Charles Bell completely wrote and illustrated volumes 3 and 4 in 1803, as well as publishing his own set of illustrations in a \"System of Dissections\" in 1798 and 1799. Furthermore, Bell uses his clinical experience and his artistic eye to develop the hobby of modeling interesting medical cases in wax. He proceeded to accumulate an extensive collection that he dubbed his Museum of Anatomy, some items of which can still be seen today at Surgeon’s Hall.\n\nCharles Bell’s stay in Edinburgh did not last long due to an infamous feud between John Bell and two faculty members at the University of Edinburgh: Alexander Monro Secundus and John Gregory. John Gregory was the chairman of the Royal Infirmary and had declared that only six full-time surgical staff members would be appointed to work at the infirmary. The Bell brothers were not selected and thus barred from practicing medicine at the Royal Infirmary. Charles Bell, who was not directly involved in his brother’s feuds, attempted to make a deal with the faculty of the University of Edinburgh by offering the university one hundred guineas and his Museum of Anatomy in exchange for allowing him to observe and sketch the operations performed at the Royal Infirmary, but this deal was rejected.\n\nIn 1804, Charles Bell left for London and in 1805 had established himself in the city by buying a house on Leicester Street. From this house Bell taught classes in anatomy and surgery for medical students, doctors, and artists. In 1809, Bell volunteered to attend to the British troops wounded at Corunna and was one of the few civilian surgeons to do so. Bell primarily attended to amputees but was not very successful in his amputation surgeries, producing a 92% mortality rate. In addition to the amputation surgeries, Bell was quite fascinated by musket-ball injuries and in 1814, he published a \"Dissertation on Gunshot Wounds\". A number of his illustrations of the wounds are displayed in the hall of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.\n\nIn 1811, Charles Bell married Marion Shaw. Using money from his wife's dowry, Bell purchased a share of the Great Windmill Street School of Anatomy which had been founded by the anatomist William Hunter. Bell transferred his practice from his house to the Windmill Street School Bell ended up teaching students and conducting his own research until 1824. In 1813-14, he was appointed as a member of the London College of Surgeons and as a surgeon at the Middlesex Hospital.\n\nIn addition to his domestic pursuits, Bell also served as a military surgeon, making elaborate recordings of neurological injuries at the Royal Hospital Haslar and famously documenting his experiences at Waterloo in 1815. For three consecutive days and nights, he operated on French soldiers in the Gens d'Armerie Hospital. The condition of the French soldiers was quite poor, and thus many of his patients died shortly after he operated on them. Dr. Robert Knox, who was one of Bell’s surgical assistants at Brussells, was quite critical of Bell’s surgical skills. He commented very negatively on Bell's surgical abilities; (the mortality rate of amputations carried out by Bell ran at about 90%).\n\nBell was instrumental in the creation of the Middlesex Hospital Medical School, and became, in 1824, the first professor of Anatomy and Surgery of the College of Surgeons in London. In that same year Bell sold his collection of over 3,000 wax preparations to the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh for £3000.\n\nIn 1829, the Windmill Street School of Anatomy was incorporated into the new King's College London. Bell was invited to be its first professor of physiology, and helped establish the Medical School at the University of London, gave the inaugural address when it formally opened, and even helped contribute to the requirements of its certification program. Bell's stay at the Medical School did not last long and he resigned from his chair due to differences of opinion with the academic staff. For the next seven years, Bell gave clinical lectures at the Middlesex Hospital and in 1835 he accepted the position of the Chair of Surgery at the University of Edinburgh\n\nHe was made a Knight of the Royal Guelphic Order in 1833.\n\nBell died at Hallow Park near Worcester in the Midlands, while travelling from Edinburgh to London, in 1842.\n\nHe is buried in Hallow Churchyard near Worcester.\n\nBell was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 8 June 1807, on the nomination of Robert Jameson, William Wright and Thomas Macknight. He served as a Councillor of the RSE from 1836-9.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of London on 16 November 1826, and was awarded the Royal Society's Gold Medal for his numerous discoveries in science. Bell was knighted as a Knight of the Guelphic Order of Hanover in 1831 and, like Sir Richard Owen, was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nCharles Bell was a prolific author who combined his anatomical knowledge with his artistic eye to produce a number of highly detailed and beautifully illustrated books. In 1799, Bell published his first work “\"A System of Dissections, explaining the Anatomy of the Human Body, the manner of displaying Parts and their Varieties in Disease\"”. His second work was the completion of his brother’s four-volume set of “\"The Anatomy of the Human Body”\" in 1803. In that same year, Bell published his three series of engravings titled “\"Engravings of the Arteries”\", “\"Engravings of the Brain\"”, and “\"Engravings of the Nerves.”\" These set of engravings consisted of intricate and detailed anatomical diagrams accompanied with labels and a brief description of their functionality in the human body and were published as an educational tool for aspiring medical students. The “\"Engravings of the Brain”\" are of particular importance for this marked Bell’s first published attempt at fully elucidating the organization of the nervous system. In his introduction to the work, Bell comments on the ambiguous nature of the brain and its inner workings, a topic that would hold his interest for the remainder of his life.\n\nIn 1806, with his eye on a teaching post at the Royal Academy, Bell published his \"Essays on The Anatomy of Expression in Painting\" (1806), later re-published as \"Essays on The Anatomy and Philosophy of Expression\" in 1824. In this work, Bell followed the principles of natural theology, asserting the existence of a uniquely human system of facial muscles in the service of a human species with a unique relationship to the Creator, ideals which paralleled with those of William Paley. After the failure of his application (Sir Thomas Lawrence, later President of the Royal Academy, described Bell as \"lacking in temper, modesty and judgement\"), Bell turned his attentions to the nervous system.\n\nBell published detailed studies of the nervous system in 1811, in his privately circulated book \"An Idea of a New Anatomy of the Brain\". In this book, Bell described his idea of the different nervous tracts connecting with different parts of brain and thus leading to different functionality. His experiments to investigate this consisted of cutting open the spinal cord of a rabbit and touching different columns of the cord. He found that an irritation of the anterior columns led to a convulsion of the muscles, while an irritation of the posterior columns had no visible effect. These experiments led Bell to declare that he was the first to distinguish between sensory and motor nerves. While this essay is considered by many to be the founding stone of clinical neurology, it was not well received by Bell’s peers. His experimentation was criticized and the idea that he presented of the anterior and posterior roots being connected to the cerebrum and cerebellum respectively, was rejected. Furthermore, Bell's \"original\" essay of 1811 did not actually contain a clear description of motor and sensory nerve roots as Bell later claimed, and he seems to have issued subsequent incorrectly dated revisions with subtle textual alterations.\n\nDespite this lukewarm response, Charles Bell continued to study the anatomy of the human brain and laid his focus upon the nerves connected to it. In 1821, Bell published the \"“On the Nerves: Giving an Account of some Experiments on Their Structure and Functions, Which Lead to a New Arrangement of the System”\" in Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. This paper held Bell’s most famous discovery, that the facial nerve or seventh cranial nerve is a nerve of muscular action. This was quite an important discovery because surgeons would often cut this nerve as an attempted cure for facial neuralgia, but this would often render the patient with a unilateral paralysis of the facial muscles, now known as Bell’s Palsy. Due to this publication, Charles Bell is regarded as one of the first physicians to combine the scientific study of neuroanatomy with clinical practice.\n\nBell's studies on emotional expression played a catalytic role in the development of Darwin's considerations of the origins of human emotional life; and, while he rejected Bell's theological arguments, Darwin very much agreed with Bell's emphasis on the expressive role of the muscles of respiration. Darwin detailed these opinions in his \"The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals\" (1872), written with the active collaboration of the psychiatrist James Crichton-Browne. \nBell was one of the first physicians to combine the scientific study of neuroanatomy with clinical practice. In 1821, he described in the trajectory of the facial nerve and a disease, Bell's Palsy which led to the unilateral paralysis of facial muscles, in one of the classics of neurology, a paper delivered to the Royal Society entitled \"On the Nerves: Giving an Account of some Experiments on Their Structure an Functions, Which Lead to a New Arrangement of the System.\"\n\nBell also combined his many artistic, scientific, literary and teaching talents in a number of wax preparations and detailed anatomical and surgical illustrations, paintings and engravings in his several books on these subjects, such as in his book \"Illustrations of the Great Operations of Surgery: Trepan, Hernia, Amputation, Aneurism, and Lithotomy\" (1821). He wrote also the first treatise on notions of anatomy and physiology of facial expression for painters and illustrators, titled \"Essays on the Anatomy of Expression in Painting\" (1806).\n\nIn 1829, Francis Egerton, the eighth Earl of Bridgewater, died and in his will, he left a large sum of money to the President of the Royal Society of London. The will stipulated that the money was to be used to write, print, and publish one thousand copies of a work On the Power, Wisdom, and Goodness of God. The President of the Royal Society, Davies Gilbert appointed eight gentlemen to write separate treatises on the subject. In 1833, he published the fourth Bridgewater Treatise, \"The Hand: Its Mechanism and Vital Endowments as Evincing Design\". Charles Bell published four editions of \"The Hand\". In the first few chapters, Bell organizes his treatise as an early textbook of comparative anatomy. The book is full of pictures where Bell compares “hands” of different organisms ranging from human hands, chimpanzee paws, and fish feelers. After the first few chapters, Bell orients his treatise around the significance of the hand and its importance in its use in anatomy. He emphasizes that the hand is as important as the eye in the field of surgery and that it must be trained.\n\nA number of discoveries received his name:\n\nCharles Bell House, part of University College London, is used for teaching and research in surgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31837766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837766", "title": "Ciberobn", "text": "Ciberobn\n\nThe Spanish Biomedical Research Centre in Physiopathology of Obesity and Nutrition (Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición: CIBERObn) is a public research consortium which was founded on November 28, 2006 financed by the Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) and the Ministerio de Ciencia e Innovación (MICINN).\n\nThe CIBERObn gathers 31 investigation groups from different Spanish Hospitals, Universities and Research Centres. Its mission is to promote a better knowledge about the mechanisms contributing to obesity development in order to reduce its incidence and prevalence, as well as its complications, in addition to nutrition-related diseases. \n\nThe CIBERObn is structured into 8 scientific programs intended to increase the collaboration between researchers, to strengthen synergies and to boost new research lines. Programs are as follows: \n\n\nAdditionally, CIBERObn lays a particular emphasis on translational research, specially focusing on research transfer to clinical applications and practices. To this end, two cross-cutting programs have been created: \n\nThe Fat Bank is a strategic platform of the CIBERObn which offers the Scientific Community different kinds of biological material which are associated to thorough metabolic phenotyping. This information is entered by means of a tailor-made individualised software. This fat-bank- launched in 2009- currently contains 3000 samples of biologic material from more than 300 individuals.\n\nIn 2009, 287 indexed articles were published. Their average impact factor is 4.05, which is very high for this subject area. Of them, 67 (23%) belong to the first decile and 105 more (total 172 papers, 60%) belong to the first quartile of the subject area of indexed journals. They accumulate a total impact factor of 1,165. Provisional data of 2010 show an increase of 10%, highly improving the international visibility of the consortium.\n\nCIBEROBN website\n"}
{"id": "26603403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26603403", "title": "Colostrinin", "text": "Colostrinin\n\nColostrinin (also known as CLN, proline-rich polypeptides or PRP) is a naturally occurring mixture of proline-rich polypeptides derived from colostrum.\n\nColostrinin was originally identified by scientists working in Poland in the 1970s. Colostrinin is derived from colostrum, which is present in the pre-milk fluid produced from mammary glands in the first few days after parturition. It is also known as proline-rich polypeptides, since sequence analysis of the peptides present in this mixture reveals an unusually high proportion of this amino acid residue. The amino acid compositions of Colostrinin from ovine, bovine, and human colostrum are very similar. Colostrinin was first characterized in animal and in-vitro studies as a substance that generally stimulates the immune response. Such an immunomodulatory action may be important in the treatment of a variety of diseases and is consistent with the beneficial effect of colostrum in promoting the development of the immune system in newborn mammals.\n\nColostrinin is obtained from bovine colostrum by alcohol extraction and filtration. A patented method outlines the steps that can be used to produce this substance on an industrial scale. In this method, an alcohol, such as ethanol or methanol, is used to create an alcohol phase. This phase is enriched with the peptide fraction, from which Colostrinin is recovered and purified.\n\nColostrinin is incompletely defined chemically. Initially, it was assumed to consist of a single protein with a molecular weight of approximately 17 to 18 kDa. However, subsequent studies showed that Colostrinin largely consists of a mixture of at least 32 peptides ranging in size from 0.5 to 3 kDa. Most of the peptides appear to be derived from proteolytic processing of the milk proteins β-casein and a β-casein homolog. Whether non-peptide components of the mixture contribute to the biological activity is unknown. However, the biological activity of Colostrinin does seem to be due to more than one of the components, since its effects cannot be completely mimicked by any one of the peptide components tested so far.\n\nPRP-rich preparations from bovine colostrum have shown possible efficacy against various illnesses including neurodegenerative diseases (such as Alzheimer's), viral infections, and ailments characterized by an overactive immune system, such as allergies, asthma and autoimmune diseases. Some recent research has also indicated possible efficacy in combating obesity. Colostrinin’s potential as a cognitive enhancer is fairly well-documented.\n\nSignificant research has been done on Colostrinin’s possible efficacy in Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia The disease is characterized by extracellular senile plaques consisting mainly of aggregated amyloid-beta (Aß) and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, containing the cytoskeletal protein tau.\n\nA placebo-controlled clinical trial with Colostrinin in 106 people with Alzheimer's over 30 weeks was completed in 2002 and the results appeared to demonstrate efficacy in a significant proportion of patients treated. The results showed that approximately 40% of patients on Colostrinin were stabilized or improved after 15 weeks of therapy, based on an Analysis of Overall Response. 33% of patients continued to show stabilization or improvement after 30 weeks of treatment, although levels of benefit were slightly higher at the 15-week stage of the trial. The dosage regimen used for the trial was 100 micrograms of Colostrinin administered every second day for three weeks followed by a two-week period without Colostrinin.\n\nA 2010 study demonstrated that Colostrinin significantly relieved amyloid-beta (Aß)-induced cytotoxicity, alleviated the effect of Aß-induced cytotoxicity and caused a significant reduction in the elevated levels of the antioxidant enzyme SOD1.\n\nAn in-vitro study completed in 2005 showed that Colostrinin can increase the lifespan of cells isolated from inbred mice predisposed to premature aging and death. This study showed the effect of Colostrinin on the mitochondria of cells isolated from strains of senescence-prone (SAMP1) and senescence-resistant (SAMR1) mice. The data showed that cells from SAMP1 mice produce more reactive oxygen species (ROS), exhibit severe mitochondrial dysfunction, and have a decreased lifespan compared to the cells from SAMR1 mice. Addition of Colostrinin to SAMP1 cells significantly decreased ROS levels, normalized mitochondrial function and increased the lifespan to levels similar to those in SAMR1 cells. This in-vitro effect was followed up in actual mice as well.\n\nAnother study showed that Colostrinin induces neurite outgrowth of pheochromocytoma cells and inhibits beta amyloid-induced apoptosis. The neurite outgrowth caused by Colostrinin appears to activate signaling pathways common to cell proliferation and differentiation, and to mediate a wide spectrum of activities that are similar to those of hormones and known nerve growth factors. These findings would seem to suggest that Colostrinin treatment may control the expression of genes that are involved in the development, maintenance, and regeneration of neurons in the central nervous system, and thus may also explain the improvements observed in Alzheimer's patients with mild-to-moderate dementia during treatment with Colostrinin.\nColostrinin affects the early stages of Vitamin D3-induced phenotypic (CD11b and CD14) and functional (phagocytic) differentiation/maturation of monocytes/macrophages. When Colostrinin was administered to the cells after treatment with Vitamin D3, no attenuation of the differentiation/maturation process of the HL-60 cells was observed. Therefore, Colostrinin may regulate in this way the inflammatory processes in which these cells participate.\n\nAnother study in day-old domestic chicks showed enhancement of long-term memory retention. A study conducted at the University of Texas Medical Branch and published online in March 2008 in the International Archives of Allergy and Immunology showed that Colostrinin is non-allergenic and can prevent allergic inflammation due to common indoor and outdoor allergens. The study used a well characterized mouse model of allergic airway inflammation. Colostrinin (given orally, intranasally or intraperitoneally) significantly decreased IgE/IgG1 production, airway eosinophilia, mucin production and hypersensitivity induced by allergenic extracts from ragweed pollen and house dust mites. In contrast, colostrum induced positive inflammatory responses.\n\nA 2006 study published in the Journal of Experimental Therapeutics and Oncology indicated that Colostrinin may affect the aging process by reducing the spontaneous or induced mutation frequency in the DNA of cells. Such DNA damage is implicated in the general process of aging. The study, which was performed in both hamster and human cells, looked at the effect of Colostrinin on the frequency of defined DNA mutations in these cells as they occur naturally and when induced by various known chemical or physical agents. In cells stressed oxidatively, Colostrinin reduced the frequency of mutation induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS) to nearly background levels in a dose-dependent manner. Likewise, Colostrinin reduced the frequency of mutation caused by two mutagenic agents, methyl methane sulfonate and mitomycin-C, the latter often used in cancer chemotherapy. Notably Colostrinin decreased UVA and UVB radiation induced mutation frequency. These damaging radiations are a natural part of sunlight. UVA radiation plays a role in the induction of malignant melanoma and UVB radiation is the primary cause of squamous cell carcinomas. It is suggested that the antimutagenic properties of Colostrinin are achieved via multiple mechanisms - by decreasing intracellular levels of ROS and so preventing DNA damage and by increasing the efficiency of natural DNA repair mechanisms.\n\nThere were also studies of the Colostrinin components and their possible effect on aggregation of amyloid beta (Abeta1-42). Results presented suggest that NP - Colostrinin component, can directly interact with amyloid beta, inhibit its aggregation and disrupt existing aggregates acting as a beta sheet breaker and reduce toxicity induced by aggregated forms of Abeta.\n\nThere has been very little mention of toxicity in most published animal studies using Colostrinin, which may suggest that it exhibits low toxicity. Generally, treatment with Colostrinin in clinical studies has been well tolerated by both animals and humans, with any side-effects being mild and transient.\n\nTablets or capsules containing Colostrinin are available in many countries in the world and are sold as an OTC dietary supplement under various trade names, including Colostrinin, MemoryAid, CogniSure, Cognase, Cognate and Dyna.\n\nReference 10 citation: \n\n"}
{"id": "1118041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118041", "title": "Dental implant", "text": "Dental implant\n\nA dental implant (also known as an endosseous implant or fixture) is a surgical component that interfaces with the bone of the jaw or skull to support a dental prosthesis such as a crown, bridge, denture, facial prosthesis or to act as an orthodontic anchor. The basis for modern dental implants is a biologic process called osseointegration, in which materials such as titanium form an intimate bond to bone. The implant fixture is first placed so that it is likely to osseointegrate, then a dental prosthetic is added. A variable amount of healing time is required for osseointegration before either the dental prosthetic (a tooth, bridge or denture) is attached to the implant or an abutment is placed which will hold a dental prosthetic.\n\nSuccess or failure of implants depends on the health of the person receiving the treatment, drugs which affect the chances of osseointegration, and the health of the tissues in the mouth. The amount of stress that will be put on the implant and fixture during normal function is also evaluated. Planning the position and number of implants is key to the long-term health of the prosthetic since biomechanical forces created during chewing can be significant. The position of implants is determined by the position and angle of adjacent teeth, by lab simulations or by using computed tomography with CAD/CAM simulations and surgical guides called stents. The prerequisites for long-term success of osseointegrated dental implants are healthy bone and gingiva. Since both can atrophy after tooth extraction, pre-prosthetic procedures such as sinus lifts or gingival grafts are sometimes required to recreate ideal bone and gingiva.\n\nThe final prosthetic can be either fixed, where a person cannot remove the denture or teeth from their mouth, or removable, where they can remove the prosthetic. In each case an abutment is attached to the implant fixture. Where the prosthetic is fixed, the crown, bridge or denture is fixed to the abutment either with lag screws or with dental cement. Where the prosthetic is removable, a corresponding adapter is placed in the prosthetic so that the two pieces can be secured together.\n\nThe risks and complications related to implant therapy divide into those that occur during surgery (such as excessive bleeding or nerve injury), those that occur in the first six months (such as infection and failure to osseointegrate) and those that occur long-term (such as peri-implantitis and mechanical failures). In the presence of healthy tissues, a well-integrated implant with appropriate biomechanical loads can have 5-year plus survival rates from 93 to 98 percent and 10 to 15 year lifespans for the prosthetic teeth. Long-term studies show a 16- to 20-year success (implants surviving without complications or revisions) between 52% and 76%, with complications occurring up to 48% of the time.\nThe primary use of dental implants is to support dental prosthetics. Modern dental implants make use of osseointegration, the biologic process where bone fuses tightly to the surface of specific materials such as titanium and some ceramics. The integration of implant and bone can support physical loads for decades without failure.\n\nFor individual tooth replacement, an \"implant abutment\" is first secured to the implant with an abutment screw. A crown (the dental prosthesis) is then connected to the abutment with dental cement, a small screw, or fused with the abutment as one piece during fabrication. Dental implants, in the same way, can also be used to retain a multiple tooth dental prosthesis either in the form of a fixed bridge or removable dentures.\n\nAn implant supported bridge (or fixed denture) is a group of teeth secured to dental implants so the prosthetic cannot be removed by the user. Bridges typically connect to more than one implant and may also connect to teeth as anchor points. Typically the number of teeth will outnumber the anchor points with the teeth that are directly over the implants referred to as abutments and those between abutments referred to as pontics. Implant supported bridges attach to implant abutments in the same way as a single tooth implant replacement. A fixed bridge may replace as few as two teeth (also known as a fixed partial denture) and may extend to replace an entire arch of teeth (also known as a fixed full denture). In both cases, the prosthesis is said to be fixed because it cannot be removed by the denture wearer.\n\nA removable implant supported denture (also an implant supported overdenture) is a type of dental prosthesis which is not permanently fixed in place. The dental prosthesis can be disconnected from the implant abutments with finger pressure by the wearer. To enable this, the abutment is shaped as a small connector (a button, ball, bar or magnet) which can be connected to analogous adapters in the underside of the dental prosthesis. Facial prosthetics, used to correct facial deformities (e.g. from cancer treatment or injuries) can use connections to implants placed in the facial bones. Depending on the situation the implant may be used to retain either a fixed or removable prosthetic that replaces part of the face.\n\nIn orthodontics, small diameter dental implants, referred to as Temporary Anchorage Devices (or TADs) can assist tooth movement by creating anchor points from which forces can be generated. For teeth to move, a force must be applied to them in the direction of the desired movement. The force stimulates cells in the periodontal ligament to cause bone remodeling, removing bone in the direction of travel of the tooth and adding it to the space created. In order to generate a force on a tooth, an anchor point (something that will not move) is needed. Since implants do not have a periodontal ligament, and bone remodelling will not be stimulated when tension is applied, they are ideal anchor points in orthodontics. Typically, implants designed for orthodontic movement are small and do not fully osseointegrate, allowing easy removal following treatment.\n\nPlanning for dental implants focuses on the general health condition of the patient, the local health condition of the mucous membranes and the jaws and the shape, size, and position of the bones of the jaws, adjacent and opposing teeth. There are few health conditions that absolutely preclude placing implants although there are certain conditions that can increase the risk of failure. Those with poor oral hygiene, heavy smokers and diabetics are all at greater risk for a variant of gum disease that affects implants called peri-implantitis, increasing the chance of long-term failures. Long-term steroid use, osteoporosis and other diseases that affect the bones can increase the risk of early failure of implants.\n\nIt has been suggested that radiotherapy can negatively affect the survival of implants. Nevertheless, a systemic study published in 2016 concluded that dental implants installed in the irradiated area of an oral cavity may have a high survival rate, provided that the patient maintains oral hygiene measures and regular follow ups to prevent complications.\n\nThe use of bone building drugs, like bisphosphonates and anti-RANKL drugs require special consideration with implants, because they have been associated with a disorder called Bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis of the jaw (BRONJ). The drugs change bone turnover, which is thought to put people at risk for death of bone when having minor oral surgery. At routine doses (for example, those used to treat routine osteoporosis) the effects of the drugs linger for months or years but the risk appears to be very low. Because of this duality, uncertainty exists in the dental community about how to best manage the risk of BRONJ when placing implants. A 2009 position paper by the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons, discussed that the risk of BRONJ from low dose oral therapy (or slow release injectable) as between 0.01 and 0.06 percent for any procedure done on the jaws (implant, extraction, etc.). The risk is higher with intravenous therapy, procedures on the lower jaw, people with other medical issues, those on steroids, those on more potent bisphosphonates and people who have taken the drug for more than three years. The position paper recommends against placing implants in people who are taking high dose or high frequency intravenous therapy for cancer care. Otherwise, implants can generally be placed and the use of bisphosphonates does not appear to affect implant survival.\n\nThe long-term success of implants is determined, in part, by the forces they have to support. As implants have no periodontal ligament, there is no sensation of pressure when biting so the forces created are higher. To offset this, the location of implants must distribute forces evenly across the prosthetics they support. Concentrated forces can result in fracture of the bridgework, implant components, or loss of bone adjacent the implant. The ultimate location of implants is based on both biologic (bone type, vital structures, health) and mechanical factors. Implants placed in thicker, stronger bone like that found in the front part of the bottom jaw have lower failure rates than implants placed in lower density bone, such as the back part of the upper jaw. People who grind their teeth also increase the force on implants and increase the likelihood of failures.\n\nThe design of implants has to account for a lifetime of real-world use in a person's mouth. Regulators and the dental implant industry have created a series of tests to determine the long-term mechanical reliability of implants in a person's mouth where the implant is struck repeatedly with increasing forces (similar in magnitude to biting) until it fails.\n\nWhen a more exacting plan is needed beyond clinical judgment, the dentist will make an acrylic guide (called a stent) prior to surgery which guides optimal positioning of the implant. Increasingly, dentists opt to get a CT scan of the jaws and any existing dentures, then plan the surgery on CAD/CAM software. The stent can then be made using stereolithography following computerized planning of a case from the CT scan. The use of CT scanning in complex cases also helps the surgeon identify and avoid vital structures such as the inferior alveolar nerve and the sinus.\n\nMost implant systems have five basic steps for placement of each implant:\n\n\nThere are different approaches to placement dental implants after tooth extraction. The approaches are:\n\nThere are also various options for when to attach teeth to dental implants, classified into:\n\nFor an implant to become permanently stable, the body must grow bone to the surface of the implant (osseointegration). Based on this biologic process, it was thought that loading an implant during the osseointegration period would result in movement that would prevent osseointegration, and thus increase implant failure rates. As a result, three to six months of integrating time (depending on various factors) was allowed before placing the teeth on implants (restoring them).\n\nHowever, later research suggests that the initial stability of the implant in bone is a more important determinant of success of implant integration, rather than a certain period of healing time. As a result, the time allowed to heal is typically based on the density of bone the implant is placed in and the number of implants splinted together, rather than a uniform amount of time. When implants can withstand high torque (35 Ncm) and are splinted to other implants, there are no meaningful differences in long-term implant survival or bone loss between implants loaded immediately, at three months, or at six months. The corollary is that single implants, even in solid bone, require a period of no-load to minimize the risk of initial failure.\n\nAfter an implant is placed, the internal components are covered with either a healing abutment, or a cover screw. A healing abutment passes through the mucosa, and the surrounding mucosa is adapted around it. A cover screw is flush with the surface of the dental implant, and is designed to be completely covered by mucosa. After an integration period, a second surgery is required to reflect the mucosa and place a healing abutment.\n\nIn the early stages of implant development (1970−1990), implant systems used a two-stage approach, believing that it improved the odds of initial implant survival. Subsequent research suggests that no difference in implant survival existed between one-stage and two-stage surgeries, and the choice of whether or not to \"bury\" the implant in the first stage of surgery became a concern of soft tissue (gingiva) management\n\nWhen tissue is deficient or mutilated by the loss of teeth, implants are placed and allowed to osseointegrate, then the gingiva is surgically moved around the healing abutments. The down-side of a two-stage technique is the need for additional surgery and compromise of circulation to the tissue due to repeated surgeries. The choice of one or two-stages, now centers around how best to reconstruct the soft tissues around lost teeth.\n\nAn increasingly common strategy to preserve bone and reduce treatment times includes the placement of a dental implant into a recent extraction site. On the one hand, it shortens treatment time and can improve aesthetics because the soft tissue envelope is preserved. On the other hand, implants may have a slightly higher rate of initial failure. Conclusions on this topic are difficult to draw, however, because few studies have compared immediate and delayed implants in a scientifically rigorous manner.\n\nFor an implant to osseointegrate, it needs to be surrounded by a healthy quantity of bone. In order for it to survive long-term, it needs to have a thick healthy soft tissue (gingiva) envelope around it. It is common for either the bone or soft tissue to be so deficient that the surgeon needs to reconstruct it either before or during implant placement.\n\n\"Bone grafting\" is necessary when there is a lack of bone. While there are always new implant types, such as short implants, and techniques to allow compromise, a general treatment goal is to have a minimum of 10 mm in bone height, and 6 mm in width. Alternatively, bone defects are graded from A to D (A=10+ mm of bone, B=7–9 mm, C=4–6 mm and D=0–3 mm) where an implant's likelihood of osseointegrating is related to the grade of bone.\n\nTo achieve an adequate width and height of bone, various bone grafting techniques have been developed. The most frequently used is called guided bone graft augmentation where a defect is filled with either natural (harvested or autograft) bone or allograft (donor bone or synthetic bone substitute), covered with a semi-permeable membrane and allowed to heal. During the healing phase, natural bone replaces the graft forming a new bony base for the implant.\n\nThree common procedures are:\n\nOther, more invasive procedures, also exist for larger bone defects including mobilization of the inferior alveolar nerve to allow placement of a fixture, onlay bone grafting using the iliac crest or another large source of bone and microvascular bone graft where the blood supply to the bone is transplanted with the source bone and reconnected to the local blood supply. The final decision about which bone grafting technique that is best is based on an assessment of the degree of vertical and horizontal bone loss that exists, each of which is classified into mild (2–3 mm loss), moderate (4–6 mm loss) or severe (greater than 6 mm loss). Orthodontic extrusion or orthodontic implant site development can be used in selected cases for vertical/horizontal alveolar augmentation.\n\nThe gingiva surrounding a tooth has a 2–3 mm band of bright pink, very strong attached mucosa, then a darker, larger area of unattached mucosa that folds into the cheeks. When replacing a tooth with an implant, a band of strong, attached gingiva is needed to keep the implant healthy in the long-term. This is especially important with implants because the blood supply is more precarious in the gingiva surrounding an implant, and is theoretically more susceptible to injury because of a longer attachment to the implant than on a tooth (a longer biologic width).\n\nWhen an adequate band of attached tissue is absent, it can be recreated with a soft tissue graft. There are four methods that can be used to transplant soft tissue. A roll of tissue adjacent to an implant (referred to as a palatal roll) can be moved towards the lip (buccal), gingiva from the palate can be transplanted, deeper connective tissue from the palate can be transplanted or, when a larger piece of tissue is needed, a finger of tissue based on a blood vessel in the palate (called a vascularized interpositional periosteal-connective tissue (VIP-CT) flap) can be repositioned to the area.\n\nAdditionally, for an implant to look esthetic, a band of full, plump gingiva is needed to fill in the space on either side of implant. The most common soft tissue complication is called a black-triangle, where the papilla (the small triangular piece of tissue between two teeth) shrinks back and leaves a triangular void between the implant and the adjacent teeth. Dentists can only expect 2–4 mm of papilla height over the underlying bone. A black triangle can be expected if the distance between where the teeth touch and bone is any greater.\n\nThe prosthetic phase begins once the implant is well integrated (or has a reasonable assurance that it will integrate) and an abutment is in place to bring it through the mucosa. Even in the event of early loading (less than 3 months), many practitioners will place temporary teeth until osseointegration is confirmed. The prosthetic phase of restoring an implant requires an equal amount of technical expertise as the surgical because of the biomechanical considerations, especially when multiple teeth are to be restored. The dentist will work to restore the vertical dimension of occlusion, the esthetics of the smile, and the structural integrity of the teeth to evenly distribute the forces of the implants.\n\nProsthetic procedures for single teeth, bridges and fixed dentures\n\nAn abutment is selected depending on the application. In many single crown and fixed partial denture scenarios (bridgework), custom abutments are used. An impression of the top of the implant is made with the adjacent teeth and gingiva. A dental lab then simultaneously fabricates an abutment and crown. The abutment is seated on the implant, a screw passes through the abutment to secure it to an internal thread on the implant (lag-screw). There are variations on this, such as when the abutment and implant body are one piece or when a \"stock\" (prefabricated) abutment is used. Custom abutments can be made by hand, as a cast metal piece or custom milled from metal or zirconia, all of which have similar success rates.\n\nThe platform between the implant and the abutment can be flat (buttress) or conical fit. In conical fit abutments, the collar of the abutment sits inside the implant which allows a stronger junction between implant and abutment and a better seal against bacteria into the implant body. To improve the gingival seal around the abutment collar, a narrowed collar on the abutment is used, referred to as platform switching. The combination of conical fits and platform switching gives marginally better long term periodontal conditions compared to flat-top abutments.\n\nRegardless of the abutment material or technique, an impression of the abutment is then taken and a crown secured to the abutment with dental cement. Another variation on abutment/crown model is when the crown and abutment are one piece and the lag-screw traverses both to secure the one-piece structure to the internal thread on the implant. There does not appear to be any benefit, in terms of success, for cement versus screw-retained prosthetics, although the latter is believed to be easier to maintain (and change when the prosthetic fractures) and the former offers high esthetic performance.\n\nWhen a removable denture is worn, retainers to hold the denture in place can be either custom made or \"off-the-shelf\" (stock) abutments. When custom retainers are used, four or more implant fixtures are placed and an impression of the implants is taken and a dental lab creates a custom metal bar with attachments to hold the denture in place. Significant retention can be created with multiple attachments and the use of semi-precision attachments (such as a small diameter pin that pushes through the denture and into the bar) which allows for little or no movement in the denture, but it remains removable. However, the same four implants angled in such a way to distribute occlusal forces may be able to safely hold a fixed denture in place with comparable costs and number of procedures giving the denture wearer a fixed solution.\n\nAlternatively, stock abutments are used to retain dentures using a male-adapter attached to the implant and a female adapter in the denture. Two common types of adapters are the ball-and-socket style retainer and the button-style adapter. These types of stock abutments allow movement of the denture, but enough retention to improve the quality of life for denture wearers, compared to conventional dentures. Regardless of the type of adapter, the female portion of the adapter that is housed in the denture will require periodic replacement, however the number and adapter type does not seem to affect patient satisfaction with the prosthetic for various removable alternatives.\n\nAfter placement, implants need to be cleaned (similar to natural teeth) with a Teflon instrument to remove any plaque. Because of the more precarious blood supply to the gingiva, care should be taken with dental floss. Implants will lose bone at a rate similar to natural teeth in the mouth (e.g. if someone suffers from periodontal disease, an implant can be affected by a similar disorder) but will otherwise last. The porcelain on crowns should be expected to discolour, fracture or require repair approximately every ten years, although there is significant variation in the service life of dental crowns based on the position in the mouth, the forces being applied from opposing teeth and the restoration material. Where implants are used to retain a complete denture, depending on the type of attachment, connections need to be changed or refreshed every one to two years. A powered irrigator may also be useful for cleaning around implants.\n\nPlacement of dental implants is a surgical procedure and carries the normal risks of surgery including infection, excessive bleeding and necrosis of the flap of tissue around the implant. Nearby anatomic structures, such as the inferior alveolar nerve, the maxillary sinus and blood vessels, can also be injured when the osteotomy is created or the implant placed. Even when the lining of the maxillary sinus is perforated by an implant, long term sinusitis is rare. An inability to place the implant in bone to provide stability of the implant (referred to as primary stability of the implant) increases the risk of failure to osseointegration.\n\nPrimary implant stability refers to the stability of a dental implant immediately after implantation. The stability of the titanium screw implant in the patient's bone tissue post surgery may be non-invasively assessed using resonance frequency analysis. Sufficient initial stability may allow immediate loading with prosthetic reconstruction, though early loading poses a higher risk of implant failure than conventional loading.\n\nThe relevance of primary implant stability decreases gradually with regrowth of bone tissue around the implant in the first weeks after surgery, leading to secondary stability. Secondary stability is different from the initial stabilization, because it results from the ongoing process of bone regrowth into the implant (osseointegration). When this healing process is complete, the initial mechanical stability becomes biological stability. Primary stability is critical to implantation success until bone regrowth maximizes mechanical and biological support of the implant. Regrowth usually occurs during the 3–4 weeks after implantation. Insufficient primary stability, or high initial implant mobility, can lead to failure.\n\n\nAn implant is tested between 8 and 24 weeks to determine if it is integrated. There is significant variation in the criteria used to determine implant success, the most commonly cited criteria at the implant level are the absence of pain, mobility, infection, gingival bleeding, radiographic lucency or peri-implant bone loss greater than 1.5 mm.\n\nDental implant success is related to operator skill, quality and quantity of the bone available at the site, and the patient's oral hygiene, but the most important factor is primary implant stability. While there is significant variation in the rate that implants fail to integrate (due to individual risk factors), the approximate values are 1 to 6 percent\n\nIntegration failure is rare, particularly if a dentist's or oral surgeon's instructions are followed closely by the patient. Immediate loading implants may have a higher rate of failure, potentially due to being loaded immediately after trauma or extraction, but the difference with proper care and maintenance is well within statistical variance for this type of procedure. More often, osseointegration failure occurs when a patient is either too unhealthy to receive the implant or engages in behavior that contraindicates proper dental hygiene including smoking or drug use.\n\nThe long-term complications that result from restoring teeth with implants relate, directly, to the risk factors of the patient and the technology. There are the risks associated with appearance including a high smile line, poor gingival quality and missing papillae, difficulty in matching the form of natural teeth that may have unequal points of contact or uncommon shapes, bone that is missing, atrophied or otherwise shaped in an unsuitable manner, unrealistic expectations of the patient or poor oral hygiene. The risks can be related to biomechanical factors, where the geometry of the implants does not support the teeth in the same way the natural teeth did such as when there are cantilevered extensions, fewer implants than roots or teeth that are longer than the implants that support them (a poor crown-to-root ratio). Similarly, grinding of the teeth, lack of bone or low diameter implants increase the biomechanical risk. Finally there are technological risks, where the implants themselves can fail due to fracture or a loss of retention to the teeth they are intended to support.\n\nFrom these theoretical risks, derive the real world complications. Long-term failures are due to either loss of bone around the tooth and/or gingiva due to peri-implantitis or a mechanical failure of the implant. Because there is no dental enamel on an implant, it does not fail due to cavities like natural teeth. While large-scale, long-term studies are scarce, several systematic reviews estimate the long-term (five to ten years) survival of dental implants at 93–98 percent depending on their clinical use. During initial development of implant retained teeth, all crowns were attached to the teeth with screws, but more recent advancements have allowed placement of crowns on the abutments with dental cement (akin to placing a crown on a tooth). This has created the potential for cement, that escapes from under the crown during cementation to get caught in the gingiva and create a peri-implantitis (see picture below). While the complication can occur, there does not appear to be any additional peri-implantitis in cement-retained crowns compared to screw-retained crowns overall.\nIn compound implants (two stage implants), between the actual implant and the superstructure (abutment) are gaps and cavities into which bacteria can penetrate from the oral cavity. Later these bacteria will return into the adjacent tissue and can cause periimplantitis. As prophylaxis these implant interior spaces should be sealed.\n\nCriteria for the success of the implant supported dental prosthetic varies from study to study, but can be broadly classified into failures due to the implant, soft tissues or prosthetic components or a lack of satisfaction on the part of the patient. The most commonly cited criteria for success are function of at least five years in the absence of pain, mobility, radiographic lucency and peri-implant bone loss of greater than 1.5 mm on the implant, the lack of suppuration or bleeding in the soft tissues and occurrence of technical complications/prosthetic maintenance, adequate function, and esthetics in the prosthetic. In addition, the patient should ideally be free of pain, paraesthesia, able to chew and taste and be pleased with the esthetics.\n\nThe rates of complications vary by implant use and prosthetic type and are listed below:\n\n\nThe most common complication being fracture or wear of the tooth structure, especially beyond ten years with fixed dental prostheses made of metal-ceramic having significantly higher ten-year survival compared those made of gold-acrylic.\n\n\nThere is archeological evidence that humans have attempted to replace missing teeth with root form implants for thousands of years. Remains from ancient China (dating 4000 years ago) have carved bamboo pegs, tapped into the bone, to replace lost teeth, and 2000-year-old remains from ancient Egypt have similarly shaped pegs made of precious metals. Some Egyptian mummies were found to have transplanted human teeth, and in other instances, teeth made of ivory.\n\nWilson Popenoe and his wife in 1931, at a site in Honduras dating back to 600 AD, found the lower mandible of a young Mayan woman, with three missing incisors replaced by pieces of shell, shaped to resemble teeth. Bone growth around two of the implants, and the formation of calculus, indicates that they were functional as well as esthetic. The fragment is currently part of the Osteological Collection of the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.\n\nThe early part of the 20th century saw a number of implants made of a variety of materials. One of the earliest successful implants was the Greenfield implant system of 1913 (also known as the Greenfield crib or basket). Greenfield's implant, an iridioplatinum implant attached to a gold crown, showed evidence of osseointegration and lasted for a number of years. The first use of titanium as an implantable material was by Bothe, Beaton and Davenport in 1940, who observed how close the bone grew to titanium screws, and the difficulty they had in extracting them. Bothe et al. were the first researchers to describe what would later be called osseointegration (a name that would be marketed later on by Per-Ingvar Brånemark). In 1951, Gottlieb Leventhal implanted titanium rods in rabbits. Leventhal's positive results led him to believe that titanium represented the ideal metal for surgery.\n\nIn the 1950s research was being conducted at Cambridge University in England on blood flow in living organisms. These workers devised a method of constructing a chamber of titanium which was then embedded into the soft tissue of the ears of rabbits. In 1952 the Swedish orthopaedic surgeon, Per-Ingvar Brånemark, was interested in studying bone healing and regeneration. During his research time at Lund University he adopted the Cambridge designed \"rabbit ear chamber\" for use in the rabbit femur. Following the study, he attempted to retrieve these expensive chambers from the rabbits and found that he was unable to remove them. Brånemark observed that bone had grown into such close proximity with the titanium that it effectively adhered to the metal. Brånemark carried out further studies into this phenomenon, using both animal and human subjects, which all confirmed this unique property of titanium. Leonard Linkow, in the 1950s, was one of the first to insert titanium and other metal implants into the bones of the jaw. Artificial teeth were then attached to these pieces of metal. In 1965 Brånemark placed his first titanium dental implant into a human volunteer. He began working in the mouth as it was more accessible for continued observations and there was a high rate of missing teeth in the general population offered more subjects for widespread study. He termed the clinically observed adherence of bone with titanium as \"osseointegration\".\n\nSince then implants have evolved into three basic types:\n\nA typical implant consists of a titanium screw (resembling a tooth root) with a roughened or smooth surface. The majority of dental implants are made out of commercially pure titanium, which is available in four grades depending upon the amount of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and iron contained. Cold work hardened CP4 (maximum impurity limits of N .05 percent, C .10 percent, H .015 percent, Fe .50 percent, and O .40 percent) is the most commonly used titanium for implants. Grade 5 titanium, Titanium 6AL-4V, (signifying the titanium alloy containing 6 percent aluminium and 4 percent vanadium alloy) is slightly harder than CP4 and used in the industry mostly for abutment screws and abutments. Most modern dental implants also have a textured surface (through etching, anodic oxidation or various-media blasting) to increase the surface area and osseointegration potential of the implant.\n\nIf C.P. titanium or a titanium alloy has more than 85% titanium content it will form a titanium biocompatable titanium oxide surface layer or veneer that encloses the other metals preventing them from contacting the bone.\nThe latest development in implant technology is root analogue ceramic implants, which are produced from CT/DVT scans, milled with modern CAD/CAM technology, and placed immediately after tooth extraction without any surgery.\n\nIn Belgium, France, UK or Germany the price of a dental implant with prosthesis is on average 1 400 €. This corresponds to the implant, the abutment and the crown. The prices go from 900€ to 3 500 € according to the dentist and the technologies. It is frequent to see patients with 25 000 € quotes for a complete restoration of teeth.\n\nIn Europe, the price of a dental implant varies a lot according to the country. The price rate is divided by 3 between the most expensive country and the cheapest country. It is thus possible to save thousands of euros abroad. The price of a complete dental implant with prosthesis is 600 € in Hungary and 450 € on average in Romania.\n\n"}
{"id": "20907440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20907440", "title": "Doubling (psychodrama)", "text": "Doubling (psychodrama)\n\nIn psychodrama, doubling is a technique where a participant, perhaps asked by the psychodrama director, supplements the role (self, role reversal) of the protagonist, usually by standing behind them and saying things that the protagonist might want to say or is withholding. The person performing the supplemental role is commonly called the Double. The task of the Double is to provide a link between the patient's internal reality and the external environment. In this way one is able to hear things that may (or not) reflect what they feel or think. Thereby, the doubling can help provoke abreactive and mental catharsis, insight, and transformation. However, newer forms of Doubling focus not so much on an abreactive catharsis but more on an integrative catharsis since psychodrama has learned that too much emotion can be re-traumatizing to the client. \n\nHudgins, K. & Toscani, F. (2013). \"Healing World Trauma with the Therapeutic Spiral Model: Stories at the Frontlines\". London: Jessica Kingsley Publications. \n"}
{"id": "47721676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47721676", "title": "Duck ague", "text": "Duck ague\n\nDuck ague, also buck fever or buck ague, is a hunting term in which a marksman or hunter, before taking a shot with either a gun or bow in a tense situation, loses mental quietude and misses the shot.\n\nIn the movie \"Deliverance\", Jon Voight suffers from duck ague before shooting a wild deer, after which Burt Reynolds' character describes the phenomenon, saying \"Hell, I've known tournament archers, damn good shots, never out of the five ring. Draw down on a live animal, they get buck ague.\"\n"}
{"id": "11273277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11273277", "title": "East Meets West (non-governmental organization)", "text": "East Meets West (non-governmental organization)\n\nThrive Networks, also known as East Meets West is an international non-governmental organization pioneering evidence-based programs and technologies in health, water and sanitation, and education for underserved populations in Asia and Africa. It was founded in 1988 by author and humanitarian Le Ly Hayslip, and is based in Oakland, California, USA.\n\nEast Meets West declares its mission \"to transform health, education and communities of disadvantaged people in Asia by building partnerships, developing opportunities and creating sustainable solutions\". They believe that every person should have access to clean water, proper medical treatment and decent education, which are estimated as fundamental elements of normal life.\n\nIt operates in the fields of healthcare, education, and clean water and sanitation aiming to help people in Asia to achieve self-sufficiency.\n\nAmong the key programs are: providing low-income children with a good education, clean water and vital medical care, surgery program to heal heart defects in children (Operation Healthy Heart), scholarship program to improve educational outcomes (SPELL), dental program, support for children with disabilities, and an innovative clean water and sanitation program.\n\nIn the year of 2011, East Meets West invested over $13 million USD on its programs. East Meets West has a four-star rating and was listed as one of the \"10 Charities Expanding in a Hurry\" on Charity Navigator.\n\nIn 2014, EMW relaunched in the United States as Thrive Networks. Thrive Networks’ mission is refined to improve the health and well-being of underserved communities in Asia and Africa through evidence-based programs and technologies.\n\nEast Meets West's learning programs provide a comprehensive response to a common development problem, helping children from poor families gain a solid education. The Scholarship Program to Enhance Learning and Literacy (SPELL) program provides 10-year scholarships to children from Vietnam's poorest families. Over 11,000 students now have the opportunity to complete high school and get a good job.\n\nThe anti-trafficking ADAPT program, implemented by EMW’s partner Pacific Links Foundation, works to stop trafficking at the source by providing vulnerable girls with the resources they need to create a brighter future.\n\nThe School Construction program builds primary schools and kindergartens in rural areas so more children can attend school. Vietnam does not have enough schools to meet the needs of its population EMW has also helped fill in the gaps in Vietnam's higher education system by building key educational facilities such as university libraries, research centers and sports complexes.\n\nVillage of Hope is EMW’s disadvantaged children’s center that provides children from the most difficult circumstances with a safe haven where they receive a full education, job training and skills to help them reintegrate into society.<ref name=\"eastmeetswest.org/education\">EMW Education Programs.</ref>\n\nIn 2014, Coach for College, a program that brings together U.S. and local college students to teach children from rural Vietnam, joined Thrive Networks’ Education portfolio.\n\nThrough the healthcare programs, EMW provides direct assistance to individuals, supports families, trains medical staff and works to improve systemic capacity by developing and constructing improved medical facilities.\n\nThe Breath of Life (BOL) neo-natal health program treats over 50,000 babies a year through appropriate technologies. BOL provides custom-designed, low-cost equipment to hospitals, and targeted training to medical personnel, to save the lives of infants suffering from common newborn pathologies. To ensure sustainability, BOL works to strengthen linkages with local health authorities to involve them in integrating these technologies into the larger health system. EMW’s neonatal health model was adapted and replicated to serve Laos, Cambodia, Timor Leste in 2008 and more recently in India, Myanmar and the Philippines. BOL formed a major partnership with GE Healthcare in 2011.\n\nThe EMW Dental Program serves 15,000 Vietnamese children annually through its modern dental clinic, school dental trailer and rural outreach project that utilizes portable field equipment. The program recently treated its 100,000th patient.\n\nThe Operation Healthy Heart program addresses the most common birth defect, congenital heart disease, by providing lifesaving cardiac surgery to critically ill children. In addition, EMW provides training to medical staff in numerous hospitals.\n\nEMW provides a comprehensive support system for the disabled through its Support Network for People with Disabilities (SN-PWD) and its INSPIRE Sports program. Many of these disabilities are caused by exposure to Agent Orange and dioxin, an issue EMW is addressing through a new campaign of healing for Agent Orange survivors.\n\nEMW builds key medical institutions that are a crucial link between our grassroots development programs and large-scale capacity building. In the past decade, with major support from the Atlantic Philanthropies, EMW has invested over $50 million in building large-scale hospitals in Vietnam.<ref name=\"eastmeetswest.org/health\">EMW Medical and Healthcare Programs.</ref>\n\nIn 2015, Embrace, an organization founded at Stanford University in 2008 to treat newborns suffering from hypothermia, joins Thrive Networks’ healthcare programs. EMW/Thrive’s health portfolio strategy and scope of work is refined to focus on newborn health.\n\nThrough the Clean Water & Sanitation Program, EMW provides a sustainable water supply to communities and ensures that the local people are fully invested in the project. To maximize the health benefits, EMW incorporates a hygiene and sanitation training component to address the need for improved sanitation, another critical public health issue.<ref name=\"eastmeetswest.org/water\">EMW Clean Water and Sanitation Program.</ref>\n\nAccountability and results of the EMW water system model are insured by the Output-Based Approach, where funders such as the World Bank provide reimbursement for a water system only after its functionality is tested and a requisite number of household connections verified. While most villagers pay for their monthly water usage, the program subsidizes the costs of pipe connections and fees for water delivery to the neediest through its “Poorest of the Poor” program.\n\nThe program’s critical sanitation component supports hygiene behavioral change by promoting awareness of practices such as hand washing, installing hand washing stations in schools and building hygienic latrines in communities with existing EMW water systems. Providing better sanitation greatly augments the benefits of the water systems, because lack of sanitation increases the risk of disease, directly jeopardizing the health of the entire community.\n\nTo date, EMW has helped finance the construction of 12,500 latrines in partnership with Watershed Asia and USAID. Since the Clean Water & Sanitation Program’s inception, EMW has built over 200 water systems and brought improved sanitation to almost 62,500 people.\n\nEMW received a US $10.9 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to improve sanitation and hygiene practices among the rural poor in Vietnam and Cambodia. EMW's program will benefit 1.7 million people in 344,000 households and 290 communes in Vietnam and Cambodia while working with local organizations, government partners, banks and private enterprises. The grant uses a results-based approach to sanitation and hygiene aid, which requires an initial investment from recipient families and communes, and then rewards them when results are achieved.\n\nIn 2013, Blue Planet Network (BPN), an online collaboration and impact analysis platform, merged with EMW’s Water and Sanitation portfolio. Founded in 2002, BPN has a mission to exponentially increase the impact of safe drinking water programs for people worldwide.\n\nEMW partners with government organizations, international organizations, foundations, local associations, hospitals, and educational institutions to enhance the quality of their programs and expand its scope and impact. Key partnerships include: GE Healthcare, Design that Matters, Blue Planet Network, VNHELP, Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs, Osprey Packs, Masimo, International Children Assistance Network (ICAN), Evidence Action, Design that Matters, MTTS, and Pacific Links.<ref name=\"eastmeetswest.org/partners\">EMW Partners</ref>\n\nEMW receives funding support from government agencies, foundations, corporations and individuals. Key funders include The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, The Global Partnership on Output-based aid, USAID, AusAID, Irish Aid, The Atlantic Philanthropies, The Lemelson Foundation, The Ford Foundation, The Boeing Company, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,<ref name=\"eastmeetswest.org/funders\">EMW Funders</ref> Wellcome Trust and Dubai Cares.\n\nThrive Networks/East Meets West is currently serving communities in nine countries throughout Asia and Africa, including Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, India, the Philippines, Myanmar, Afghanistan, Benin and Uganda.\n\nEast Meets West was established by Le Ly Hayslip, whose life story was chronicled in two books she wrote and in Oliver Stone's film, \"Heaven & Earth\", based on her memoir \"When Heaven and Earth Changed Places\". In 1988, she visited her native village in Ky La in Central Vietnam to begin healing of the war wounds and plant the seeds of reconciliation.\n\nFrom Le Ly's early projects - Mothers Love Pediatric Clinic and Peace Village Medical Center - East Meets West emerged as a respected non-governmental organization (NGO) in Vietnam, which realized many socially important projects in the country.\n\nIn 1993, East Meets West received a grant from United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and constructed the Village of Hope, a shelter and safe haven for 136 needy children from Central Vietnam.\n\nSince 1998 the organization in partnership with Atlantic Philanthropies has participated in building of Vietnam's medical and educational infrastructure, including university libraries and general hospitals, including a 200-bed cardiovascular center in Huế and a twelve-story English Language training center in Da Nang.\n\nIn 2003, John Anner left the Independent Press Association to head East Meets West.\n\nIn 2006, East Meets West co-organized medical equipment donation for Viet Duc Hospital in Hanoi.\n\nIn 2008, EMW began its expansion to Laos, Cambodia, and Timor Leste, with subsequent programming in the Philippines, India, and Myanmar.\n\nIn 2012, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation awarded East Meets West a US $10.9 million grant to improve sanitation and hygiene practices among the rural poor in Vietnam and Cambodia.\n\nIn 2013, EMW and Blue Planet Network signed a definitive agreement to merge, bringing together EMW’s “pay for performance” water and sanitation programs and Blue Planet Network’s online collaboration and impact analysis platform.\n\nIn 2014, EMW relaunched in the United States as Thrive Networks, but continues to operate as East Meets West in Asia. Thrive Networks adopts a new nonprofit business model: using mergers and shared ventures to increase impact.\n\nIn 2015, after 13 years with EMW/Thrive Networks, John Anner stepped down as CEO. The organization welcomed a new management team that is committed to evidence-based impact and strategic focus.\n\nIn 2016, EMW Vietnam welcomed new Country Director, Loan Duong. Thrive Networks renews its focus on conducting and commissioning rigorous evaluations and impact research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52252137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52252137", "title": "Ectopic decidua", "text": "Ectopic decidua\n\nDecidual cells found outside inner lining of the uterus are called ectopic decidual cells or ectopic decidua. This condition was first described in 1971 by Walker and the name 'ectopic decidua' was coined by Tausig. While ectopic decidua is most commonly seen during pregnancy, it rarely occurs in non-pregnant women, accompanied by bleeding and pain.\n\nGenerally, ectopic decidua has no clinical symptoms, but it sometimes manifests as abdominal pain in pregnancy. Ectopic decidua most commonly occurs the ovary, cervix and serosal lining of the uterus. It rarely occurs in peritoneum also. In the peritoneum, ectopic decidua is formed due to metaplasia of subserosal stromal cells under the influence of progesterone. It regresses within 4–6 weeks after childbirth. Therefore, no treatment is needed for this condition. However, it is necessary to differentiate deciduosis from metastatic cancers and mesothelioma.\n"}
{"id": "11077785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11077785", "title": "Elixir sulfanilamide", "text": "Elixir sulfanilamide\n\nElixir sulfanilamide was an improperly prepared sulfanilamide medicine that caused mass poisoning in the United States in 1937. It caused the deaths of more than 100 people. The public outcry caused by this incident and other similar disasters led to the passing of the 1938 Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.\n\nAside from the Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 and the Harrison Act of 1914 banning the sale of some narcotic drugs, there was no federal regulatory control in the United States of America ensuring the safety of new drugs until Congress enacted the 1938 Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in response to the elixir sulfanilamide poisoning crisis.\n\nIn 1937, S. E. Massengill Company, a pharmaceutical manufacturer, created a preparation of sulfanilamide using diethylene glycol (DEG) as a solvent, and called the preparation \"Elixir Sulfanilamide\". DEG is poisonous to humans and other mammals, but Harold Watkins, the company's chief pharmacist and chemist, was not aware of this. (Though the first case of a fatality from ethylene glycol occurred in 1930 and studies had been published in medical journals stating DEG could cause kidney damage or failure, its toxicity was not widely known prior to the incident.) Watkins simply added raspberry flavoring to the sulfa drug which he had dissolved in DEG and the company then marketed the product. Animal testing was not required by law, and Massengill performed none; there were no regulations requiring premarket safety testing of new drugs.\n\nThe company started selling and distributing the medication in September 1937. By October 11, the American Medical Association received a report of several deaths caused by the medication. The Food and Drug Administration was notified, and an extensive search was conducted to recover the distributed medicine. Frances Oldham Kelsey assisted on a research project that verified that the excipient DEG was responsible for the fatal adverse effects. At least 100 deaths were blamed on the medication.\n\nThe owner of the company, when pressed to admit some measure of culpability, infamously answered, \"We have been supplying a legitimate professional demand and not once could have foreseen the unlooked-for results. I do not feel that there was any responsibility on our part.\" Watkins, the chemist, committed suicide while awaiting trial.\n\nA woman wrote to U.S. President Roosevelt and described the death of her daughter:\n\"The first time I ever had occasion to call in a doctor for [Joan] and she was given Elixir of Sulfanilamide. All that is left to us is the caring for her little grave. Even the memory of her is mixed with sorrow for we can see her little body tossing to and fro and hear that little voice screaming with pain and it seems as though it would drive me insane. ... It is my plea that you will take steps to prevent such sales of drugs that will take little lives and leave such suffering behind and such a bleak outlook on the future as I have tonight.\"\n\nCongress responded to public outrage by passing the 1938 Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which required companies to perform animal safety tests on their proposed new drugs and submit the data to the FDA before being allowed to market their products. The Massengill Company paid a minimum fine under provisions of the 1906 Pure Food and Drugs Act, which prohibited labeling the preparation an \"elixir\" if it had no alcohol in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "34081893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34081893", "title": "Epidemiology of childhood obesity", "text": "Epidemiology of childhood obesity\n\nPrevalence of childhood obesity has increased dramatically worldwide. In 2010 that the prevalence of childhood obesity during the past two to three decades, much like the United States, has increased in most other industrialized nations, excluding Russia and Poland. Between the early 1970s and late 1990s, prevalence of childhood obesity doubled or tripled in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Japan, the UK, and the USA.\n\nA 2010 article from the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition analyzed global prevalence from 144 countries in preschool children (less than 5 years old). Cross-sectional surveys from 144 countries were used and overweight and obesity were defined as preschool children with values >3SDs from the mean. They found an estimated 42 million obese children under the age of five in the world of which close to 35 million lived in developing countries.11 Additional findings included worldwide prevalence of childhood overweight and obesity increasing from 4.2% (95% CI: 3.2%, 5.2%) in 1990 to 6.7% (95% CI: 5.6%, 7.7%) in 2010 and expecting to rise to 9.1% (95% CI: 7.3%, 10.9%), an estimated 60 million overweight and obese children in 2020.\n\nChildhood obesity in the United States, has been a serious problem among children and adolescents, and can cause serious health problems among our youth. As of 2015-2016, in the United States, 18.5% of children and adolescents have obesity, which affects approximately 13.7 million children and adolescents. Prevalence has remained high over the past three decades across most age, sex, racial/ethnic, and socioeconomic groups, and represents a three-fold increase from one generation ago and is expected to continue rising.\n\nPrevalence of pediatric obesity also varies with state. The highest rates of childhood obesity are found in the southeastern states of which Mississippi was found to have the highest rate of overweight/obese children, 44.5%/21.9% respectively. The western states were found to have the lowest prevalence, such as Utah (23.1%) and Oregon (9.6%).\n\nFrom 2003-2007, there was a twofold increase in states reporting prevalence of pediatric obesity greater than or equal to 18%.7 Oregon was the only state showing decline from 2003 to 2007 (decline by 32%), and using children in Oregon as a reference group, obesity in children in Illinois, Tennessee, Kentucky, West Virginia, Georgia, and Kansas has doubled.\nThe likelihood of obesity in children was found to increase significantly with decreasing levels of household income, lower neighborhood access to parks or sidewalks, increased television viewing time, and increased recreational computer time. Black and Hispanic children are more likely to be obese compared to white (Blacks OR=1.71 and Hispanics=1.76).\n\nFor the 2015–2016 year, the CDC found that the prevalence of obesity for children aged 2-19 years old, in the U.S., was 18.5%. The current trends show that children aged 12-19 years old, have obesity levels 2.2% higher than children 6-11 years old (20.6% vs. 18.4%), and children 6-11 years old have obesity levels 4.5% higher than children aged 2-5 years old (18.4% vs. 13.9%). Boys, 6-19 years old, have a 6.1% higher prevalence of obesity, than boys aged 2-5 years old (20.4% vs. 14.3%). While girls aged 12-19 years old, have a 7.4% greater prevalence of obesity, than girls aged 2-5 years old (20.9% vs. 13.5%).\n\nA 2010 NCHS Data Brief published by the CDC found interesting trends in prevalence of childhood obesity. The prevalence of obesity among boys from households with an income at or above 350% the poverty level was found to be 11.9%, while boys with a household income level at or above 130% of the poverty level was 21.1%. The same trend followed in girls. Girls with a household income at or above 350% of the poverty level has an obesity prevalence of 12.0%, while girls with a household income 130% below the poverty level had a 19.3% prevalence.\n\nThese trends were not consistent when stratified according to race. “The relationship between income and obesity prevalence is significant among non-Hispanic white boys; 10.2% of those living in households with income at or above 350% of the poverty level are obese compared with 20.7% of those in households below 130% of the poverty level.” The same trend follows in non-Hispanic white girls (10.6% of those living at or above 350% of the poverty level are obese, and 18.3% of those living below 130% of the poverty level are obese)\n\nThere is no significant trend in prevalence by income level for either boys or girls among non-Hispanic black and Mexican-American children and adolescents. “In fact, the relationship does not appear to be consistent; among Mexican-American girls, although the difference is not significant, 21.0% of those living at or above 350% of the poverty level are obese compared with 16.2% of those living below 130% of the poverty level.” \n\nAdditional findings also include that the majority of children and adolescents are not low income children. The majority of non-Hispanic white children and adolescents also live in households with income levels at or above 130% of the poverty level. Approximately 7.5 million children live in households with income levels above 130% of the poverty level compared to 4.5 million children in households with income at or above 130% of the poverty level.\n\nThe importance of identifying the incidence of age-related onset of obesity is vital to understanding when intervention opportunities are most important. Similarly, identifying the incidence of childhood obesity within a respective race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status, can also help delineate other areas of intervention opportunities for certain populations. A systematic review on the incidence of childhood obesity, found that childhood obesity in the U.S. declines with age. The age-and-sex related incidence of obesity was found to be \"4.0% for infants 0–1.9 years, 4.0% for preschool-aged children 2.0–4.9 years, 3.2% for school-aged children 5.0–12.9 years, and 1.8% for adolescents 13.0–18.0 years.\" When the incidence of childhood obesity, was isolated for the socioeconomically disadvantaged, or for racial/ethnic minority groups, obesity incidence was discovered to be, \"4.0% at ages 0–1.9 years, 4.1% at 2.0–4.9 years, 4.4% at 5.0–12.9 years, and 2.2% at 13.0–18.0 years.\" \n\nBased on a 2015-2016 National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey (NHANES), researchers at Duke University, found that the incidence of childhood obesity is on the rise, with a notable rise in preschool boys (2.0-4.9 years), and girls aged 16.0-19.0 years old. The Duke University researchers also discovered that although it had been believed that obesity in children had been on a decline in recent years, obesity in children at all ages has actually been increasing.\n\n"}
{"id": "6027397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6027397", "title": "Episcleritis", "text": "Episcleritis\n\nEpiscleritis is a benign, self-limiting inflammatory disease affecting part of the eye called the episclera. The episclera is a thin layer of tissue that lies between the conjunctiva and the connective tissue layer that forms the white of the eye (sclera). Episcleritis is a common condition, and is characterized by the abrupt onset of painless eye redness.\n\nThere are two types of episcleritis, nodular and simple. Nodular episcleritis lesions have raised surface. Simple episcleritis lesions are flat. There are two subtypes. In diffuse simple episcleritis, inflammation is generalized. In sectoral simple episcleritis, the inflammation is restricted to one region.\n\nMost cases of episcleritis have no identifiable cause, although a small fraction of cases is associated with various systemic diseases. Often people with episcleritis experience it recurrently. Treatment focuses on decreasing discomfort, and includes lubricating eye drops. More severe cases may be treated with topical corticosteroids or oral anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs).\n\nSymptoms of episcleritis typically include painless redness of the eye (mild pain is possible but atypical), and watery eyes. The pain of episcleritis is typically mild, less severe than in scleritis, and may be tender to palpation.\n\nThere are two types of episcleritis: the diffuse type, where the redness involves the entire episclera, and the nodular type, where the redness appears more nodular, involving only a small, well-circumscribed area (sectoral). The diffuse type of episcleritis may be less painful than the nodular type. Sometimes, small nodules are present within the episclera, which move slightly over the sclera with gentle pressure.\n\nDischarge is absent with episcleritis, and vision is unaffected. Patients with episcleritis experience far less photophobia than patients with uveitis. Episcleritis does not cause the presence of cells or flare in the anterior chamber of the eye.\n\nMost of the time, the cause of episcleritis is never determined (idiopathic). An identifiable cause \"is\" discovered in about one third of cases. Several diseases are associated with episcleritis, including systemic vasculitic diseases (polyarteritis nodosa, granulomatosis with polyangiitis), connective tissue diseases (rheumatoid arthritis), rosacea, atopy, gout, and ulcerative colitis. 59 percent of patients with relapsing polychondritis have either episcleritis or scleritis. Rarely, episcleritis may be caused by scleritis.\n\nThe redness in the eye associated with episcleritis is due to engorgement of the large episcleral blood vessels, which run in a radial direction from the limbus. Typically, there is no uveitis, or thickening of the sclera.\n\nThe diagnosis of episcleritis is based upon the history and physical examination. The history should be explored for the presence of the diseases associated with episcleritis, and the symptoms they cause, such as rash, arthritis, venereal disease, and recent viral infection. Episcleritis may be differentiated from scleritis by using phenylephrine or neosynephrine eye drops, which causes blanching of the blood vessels in episcleritis, but not in scleritis. A blue color to the sclera suggests scleritis, rather than episcleritis.\n\nAfter anesthetizing the eye with medication, the conjunctiva may be moved with a cotton swab to observe the location of the enlarged blood vessels.\n\nOften, treatment is not necessary, because episcleritis is a self-limiting condition. Artificial tears may be used to help with irritation and discomfort. More severe cases can be treated with either topical corticosteroids or oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.\n\nKetorolac, a topical NSAID, may be used, but it is not more effective than artificial tears and it causes more side effects.\n\nEpiscleritis is a benign, self-limiting condition, meaning patients recover without any treatment. Most cases of episcleritis resolve within 7–10 days. The nodular type is more aggressive and takes longer to resolve. Although rare, some cases may progress to scleritis. However, in general, episcleritis does not cause complications in the eye. Smoking tobacco delays the response to treatment in patients with episcleritis.\nEpiscleritis is a common disease, and its exact prevalence and incidence are unknown. It typically affects young adults, and may be more common in women.\n\n"}
{"id": "16907086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16907086", "title": "Eric Northman", "text": "Eric Northman\n\nEric Northman is a fictional character in \"The Southern Vampire Mysteries,\" a series of thirteen books written by \"New York Times\" bestselling author Charlaine Harris. He is a vampire, slightly over one thousand years old, and is first introduced in the first novel, \"Dead Until Dark\" and appears in all subsequent novels. Since the book series is told from the first person perspective of Sookie Stackhouse, what readers perceive of his character is influenced by what Sookie comprehends. HBO's television series \"True Blood\" is based on this book series and the character of Eric Northman is portrayed somewhat differently. A list of \"True Blood\" characters has a detailed description of Eric's character from the TV show.\n\nIn the early books, little was revealed about his past. In the ninth book, \"Dead and Gone\" Eric revealed details about his human life as a Viking. He was deemed a man at the age of twelve. At sixteen he married Aude, his brother's widow. The couple had six children, but only three were living at the time of his turning, two boys and a girl. Aude and their sixth child died of a fever shortly after the birth when Eric was in his early twenties. It is revealed in the television series that the vampire king of Mississippi murdered his entire family before stealing his father's Viking crown. In the books, he was ambushed one night by a Roman vampire named Appius Livius Ocella and subsequently turned. In the television series, he was made a vampire by Godric. In the television show, it is also shown that Eric was a Viking prince, in the novels Eric says that his father was a chief. The name \"Eric\" or \"Erik\" comes from Old Norse and means \"One ruler\" or \"eternal ruler\". The name \"Norseman\" was the name given to people who could speak the Old Norse Language, especially in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark. The name \"Norseman\" means \"man from the north\", hence Eric's last name being \"Northman\".\n\nIn the first novel, \"Dead Until Dark\", Sookie Stackhouse thinks Eric Northman is a \"hunk.\" Sookie describes him as \"“handsome, in fact, radiant; blond and blue-eyed, tall and broad shouldered. He was wearing boots, jeans, and a vest. Period. Kind of like the guys on the cover of romance books\".\" He’s approximately six-foot-four. When Sookie sees him naked for the first time in \"Dead to the World,\" she thinks, “if there were an international butt competition, Eric would win, hands down – or cheeks up.”\nIn the TV series 'True Blood' he is tall with long blonde hair. By the end of the first season, and a little bit into the second, Pam (his progeny) cuts his hair shorter than expected because he gets blood in it. Eric is always shown in dark blue jeans with a black singlet and a black leather jacket. When his hair is cut shorter, he parts it and combs it diagonally backwards. His personality in the series is mostly the same, Eric Northman is ruthless and does not care much for human life. His relationship with his progeny, Pam, is where you see this softer side of him come through. When they face difficult challenges and situations, Eric would put her needs above his own. By the middle of season 2 Eric begins to pursue Sookie Stackhouse because of his interest in her abilities, and by the end of season 2 Eric Northman has cunningly tricked her into drinking his blood. Near the beginning of the third season, it is implied that he is beginning to develop feelings for her, even helping her when it is disadvantageous for him to do so. \n\nEric is portrayed in the books as being somewhat arrogant, but having a true joie de vivre. He is confident almost to a fault, once reprimanding a thug in the third book, \"Club Dead\", for threatening Sookie and referring to her as his \"future lover\" although no potentially romantic relationship between Eric and Sookie yet existed. He can be manipulative to suit his needs. He is not above using deceit though it seems to be a last resort when it comes to Sookie. However, he is typically upfront regarding any action he takes and if he is manipulative he is very frank and open regarding his wishes. Due to his frank nature, Sookie comments to herself how she can always know where she stands with Eric. Indeed, Sookie frequently remarks how conversations with Eric are seldom single layered and how he never says something without reason. He is not sentimental in the least but shows a great deal of concern over Sookie and her happiness and well-being, perhaps making the relationship between Eric and Sookie all the more impressive.\nSookie believes that, although Eric has created a modest, but thriving business empire and carved out a position of authority in the delicate vampire hierarchy, at heart he remains a born-Viking warrior, ready to leap into battle at any instant.\n\nThe vampires in Charlaine Harris' world are organized according to a feudal system with each state divided into \"Areas\", each of which are governed by a sheriff who then owes allegiance to the queen or king of that particular state. Some states, like California, are so large and so heavily populated with humans (and therefore vampires who prey on humans) they are divided into multiple kingdoms. For example, what humans see as California, vampires see as California Sacramento, California San Jose, and California Los Angeles. Louisiana is not such a state and is ruled by one monarch. However, it is possible for a monarch to control multiple states. At one point in the series Louisiana is controlled by the same vampire who also controlled Arkansas. Later in the series a different ruler controls Louisiana, Arkansas, and Nevada.\n\nEric is the most powerful vampire in Area Five of northern Louisiana: a territory that includes the small town of Bon Temps. Eric serves as Sheriff of area 5, or local boss, of that area and owns a vampire bar in Shreveport called \"Fangtasia,\" that also serves as his headquarters. He runs the bar with the help of his vampire progeny Pam and a few of his underlings, or vampires who owe allegiance to Eric as their sheriff. Eric takes his responsibilities and role within the vampire hierarchy very seriously. In the sixth novel, \"Definitely Dead\", Eric mentions that he has paid a significant fine to the arbitrator for killing a former Fangtasia bartender, Long Shadow. This demonstrates that he did not hide his crime, as killing another vampire is a \"serious thing.\". Precisely what a Vampire Sheriff does, aside from owe allegiance to their monarch, do their monarch's bidding, and rule their Area, is still somewhat unclear. Sookie makes a conscious effort not to pry too hard into vampire affairs and Eric does nothing to encourage her learning much more than she already knows. Eric surprised Sookie in the tenth book, \"Dead in the Family\", when he explained the vampire hierarchy in more detail, simply so she, as his wife according to vampire law, was better informed for her safety.\n\nThe state of Louisiana was in disarray after the results of Hurricane Katrina, and after queen of Louisiana, Eric's hierarch, was crippled in an explosion and eventually killed by the vampires of Nevada under Felipe de Castro's order. Eric was spared since he was the most practical of the Sheriffs and had one of the largest money makers, Bill Compton, living in his area and owing fealty to him. As the last surviving sheriff of Louisiana, Eric pledges his allegiance to the new regime in order to protect those under him, a tactical move that highlights his capabilities both as a leader and a political survivor. Had Eric resisted, he and all of the vampires serving under him (possibly with the exception of Bill) would have been killed, including Sookie. After accepting the new King, Felipe de Castro, he is then allowed to maintain control of his area and his followers when the other sheriffs of Louisiana and a number of their minions were all killed. Under the new regime, Eric has spent a significant amount of time acclimating himself to his new overlords. Despite his oath, however, Eric remains ever vigilant for opportunities to either further secure his position or free himself entirely from scrutiny of Felipe's Louisiana representative, Victor.\n\nThe author introduces Sookie to Eric in her first novel, \"Dead Until Dark\". Eric then appears in all the subsequent novels and has either saved or attempted to save Sookie's life in every book. From the second book onward, Eric and Sookie share at least one intimate moment together per book. In the second one there are several: when he asks her to suck out a bullet in his chest that he took for her, and when Sookie invites him to an orgy they have to play the part; in the third, they almost have sex before being interrupted by Bubba and also when he gives her blood after she is staked; the fourth, they experience a sexual relationship when he is cursed with amnesia, which he forgets all about promptly after being un-cursed; the fifth, they kiss; the sixth, during battle Eric sneaks a kiss on Sookie after saving her; the seventh, they exchange blood tying them to each other in a blood bond and Eric kisses her; the eighth, they kiss again after Eric smells fairy blood all over Sookie; and in the ninth, they consummate their relationship after being wed by vampire laws and seem to be moving in the direction of an official relationship. In the later books, she has also saved his life several times before.\n\nAfter appearing to develop an affection for Sookie in the third book in the series, \"Club Dead\", Eric has a brief romance with her in \"Dead to the World\", the fourth book, though, due to a curse, he lost his memories of that time until \"From Dead to Worse\", the eighth book. In the eighth book, after sitting in Sookie's room, he reveals that he remembers the days he spent with her when the curse was put on him. He asks her to discuss it, and she refuses. He seemingly likes Bill Compton but feels arrogantly competitive in an emotional battle for Sookie's affections.\n\nIn the seventh book, \"All Together Dead\", when Sookie is accosted into forming a blood bond with Andre, another powerful vampire, Eric steps in opportunistically as the lesser of two evils and bonds with her himself. A blood bond is formed when a human and vampire exchange blood by drinking it from them. Vampire blood can heal any human wounds within seconds as can human blood do the same for vampires.\n\nIn \"Dead and Gone\", Eric sends Sookie a velvet parcel that he instructs her to give to him in front of King Felipe de Castro's representative, Victor Madden. Without looking inside the parcel first, Sookie presents Eric the bag which contains a ceremonial knife that is used in marriage ceremonies. The king's representative reveals that the act of giving and receiving the knife means that Eric and Sookie are pledged to one another. Eric claims that he deceived Sookie because the King of Nevada had the power and desire to take her away from her home. Because they are wed, Eric is the only vampire that can have access to Sookie on pain of final death. He also reveals that the curse that had been placed on him made him unconsciously seek out the presence of his heart's desire (Sookie). In \"Dead in the Family\" Eric and Sookie are in an actual relationship, and Eric admits that he sees Sookie as his wife in the only way that matters to him, which left her puzzled.\n\nIn the 12th Sookie Stackhouse novel, \"Deadlocked\", Sookie and Eric's relationship takes a turn. Eric was promised by his maker, Appius, to marry the Queen of Oklahoma, and he has spent much of his time figuring out how to get out of the promise. Sookie wants Eric to choose her outright and Eric explains that he just can't ignore a command from his maker even though he is dead. They do not see each other too much in the book; Eric does tell Sookie that she has the power to make him stay, which she finds out near the end of the book that he knows about her cluviel dor which will grant her one wish. She ends up using it at the end of the book to save Sam Merlotte's life and Eric just walks away after he sees this. The book ends with them basically in the same spot, not knowing if Eric is going to marry the Queen of Oklahoma or stay with Sookie.\n\nIn the 13th Sookie Stackhouse novel, \"Dead Ever After\", Eric and Sookie's relationship has crashed and burned. Eric is set to officially marry Freyda, the Queen of Oklahoma, and he has been banned from ever seeing Sookie again. Also, Sookie has been banned from Fangtasia and Oklahoma. In one of the last conversations Eric and Sookie have, he tells her that he was considering making her a vampire even though she never wanted to become one. By the end of the novel, Eric is in Oklahoma with his new wife and without either of his progeny.\n\nIn \"True Blood\", an HBO series based on the earliest books in the series, the character of Eric Northman is played by Swedish actor Alexander Skarsgård. Some details of the character are portrayed somewhat differently on \"True Blood\" than in the books. In the series, Eric is created by Godric, with whom he shares a deep bond of loyalty and devotion. In season 2 Godric commits suicide by exposing himself to sunlight, causing Eric to shed bloody vampire tears, however, in the novels he cries for the first time in book 9. In the series, Bill, rather than Eric, saves Sookie from Long Shadow (in the books Eric kills him). Eric has not demonstrated the outward concern for Sookie that he exhibited in the early novels, but he appears to be developing an uneasy, guarded affection for her and the series seems to portray a reluctance on his part to show people, particularly Sookie, his genuine emotions. Often Eric has presented himself to Sookie as violent, arrogant, mischievous and consciously manipulative. Thus far in the series he has usually acted in a manner with little apparent concern for Sookie's feelings or immediate safety, although ultimately he seems to protect her.\n\nHowever, his growing feelings for Sookie are showcased in episode 4 of Season 3 when he daydreams about Sookie. After the daydream he spurns Yvetta and Pam looks on at him concerned. In episode 10, Eric kissed Sookie, after proclaiming that if he were to die a true death without having at least kissed her, that would be his greatest regret. He chained her up in his basement a few minutes later as bait for Russell. He again reveals his guarded affection for her when prompted by Russell to drink her blood, he hesitates and strokes her affectionately on the cheek. Finally, in the season three finale, he tells her that he regrets seeing her in such pain, referring to her heartbreak over ending her relationship with Bill- although he was the one who deliberately gave her the information that caused her to banish Bill from her house.\n\nEric's back story is more deeply explored in Season 3, as his youth and human life as a Viking prince was shown; his family was slaughtered in their castle by a pack of werewolves, under the command of the ancient vampire Russell Edgington. Eric gave his dying father a vow to avenge them all. During World War II, he and Godric were shown tracking Russell's wolfpack across Germany disguised as SS officers, though they never found Russell himself.\n\nIn Season 3, when Eric defects to Russell Edginton (now the King of Mississippi) instead of Queen Sophie-Anne in an effort to save Pam from torture by the Magister, he notices a crown in Russell's antique collection that he recognizes as his father's, stolen the night of the attack. Realizing Russell is the target he has sought for over 1,000 years, he continues to play up his loyalty to Russell to keep him from becoming suspicious, even displaying callous indifference to Sookie when she is captured and asks for help. However, later on, when Russell is attacking Bill and Sookie with his wolves, Eric murders his progeny and husband Talbot; Russell, sensing Talbot's death, is driven insane by grief and rage. He hunts down Eric and prepares to kill him until Eric reveals that he can show Russell how to daywalk, Russell's oldest obsession. After consuming much of Sookie's blood against her will (which visibly discomforts Eric) they are indeed able to daywalk, but it wears off very quickly; Eric cuffs Russell to himself with silver, intending for both of them to burn. Sookie brings Eric back inside and, at the request of Eric, retrieves the badly-injured Russell as well. Eric only spared Russell because he thought death would be too merciful for him; after knocking out one of his fangs, he buried the crippled vampire in silver chains and wet concrete, intending to let him starve in agony for 100 years but never die.\n\nIn Season 4, we see the relationship of Sookie and Eric develop after he loses his memory to the witch coven; first, Sookie shelters him in her house from Bill (though the house is technically Eric's). Endeared by the new Eric's innocence and his regret over his previous crimes as a vampire, Sookie eventually enters a sexual relationship with him, though in the Season 4 finale, Sookie is choosing between Eric and Bill, and chooses neither. Sources have said of Season 5 that Sookie's \"independent streak\" will continue (as Alan Ball, executive producer) claimed in an interview concerning the upcoming season. By the end of the season, Eric has regained his memories, though he retains his memory and part of the gentler personality he had when he was with Sookie.\n\nIn Season Five, after previously killing Nan Flanagan, Eric and Bill are arrested by the Vampire Authority. However, Nora, Eric's 'sister' (with whom he also has a sexual history) rescues them. Later, all three are caught by the Authority. While Eric steers clear of the Sanguinista movement stirring in the authority and attempts to escape, Bill accepts the Book of Lilith and betrays him. Eric manages to successfully escape with Nora and searches for Sookie to enlist her help; in the process, he manages to kill his archenemy Russell Edgington, fulfilling a vengeance that he began when he was still human. He attempts to save Bill but apparently fails. Later, he returns Sookie's house to her for her protection; while she is grateful to him and considers him a friend, she still banishes him from the house, and Eric tells Nora they will stay away from her now.\n\nIn Season 6, Eric finds his latest threat to be the humans, especially Governor Truman Burrell, who declares war on vampires. In an effort to challenge the Governor's stance on vampires, Eric turns Willa Burrell, Truman's more open-minded daughter after noticing her selflessness of willingly dying for a cause similar to Nora. Regardless, the Governor has them both placed in \"Vamp Camp\", where Eric is later forced to helplessly watch his sister, Nora, receive a lethal injection of \"Hep V\". Eric uses Willa to escape the camp (promising to get her and Pam out), but she also demands he frees Jessica & Tara as well and takes Nora to the Lilith-enhanced Bill, but they are unable to save her. Devastated by her death, Eric violently slaughters the humans running the concentration camp to seek revenge and free both his progenies, among others. Notably, Eric spares Jason Stackhouse, though he kills the vampire Steve Newlin, stating \"Every time I lost someone I loved, \"you\" were there.\" (Blaming him for the deaths of Godric & Nora), After freeing the imprisoned vampires, Eric flies off to grieve his sister Nora's death in solitude. In the finale, Warlow, the fairy-vampire hybrid whose blood made it possible for Eric and the other vampires to walk in the sun, is killed by Jason to save Sookie. When Warlow dies, the effects of his blood wears off in the vampires who drank it and they are no longer able to walk in the sun. Eric is shown in the sun on a mountain top in Åre, Sweden when Warlow's blood wears off, causing Eric to burn.\n\nIn Season 7, Pam tracks down Eric, who somehow avoided meeting the true death. However, he has been infected with the Hepatitis V virus.\nAfter learning that Sarah Newlin is still alive, he and Pam decide to go after her. Eric and Pam soon learn that Newlin drank the antidote and it permeated her body, making Sarah a living antidote for Hep V. They are forced to work with Yakuza ninjas from the Yakanomo Corporation (the company which originally made True Blood) in order to find her, but neither party trusts the other. Upon capturing Sarah, Eric drinks her blood and rids himself of the Hep V virus, then the Yakuza suggest they make New Blood, but ensure it doesn’t work too well, so Vampires can buy more and increase the profit, and want Eric to be the face of New Blood. Learning that Bill is dying, Eric secretly reveals the cure (contrary to the Yakuza's wishes) to Sookie and offers to heal Bill, despite their long rivalry; he is stunned when Bill refuses. However, after talking with Bill he understands his motives and tells Sookie to talk with him, making his final peace with both Bill and Sookie. Eric suggests to Pam, they let Sarah free, so the Yakuza members don’t get her, murder them all and collect all the profit, much to her delight, and they proceed to do all of it, and By the end of the series, they are running a multibillion-dollar corporation called New Blood, derived from Sarah Newlin's blood, which is both a new vampire food source and a universal cure for Hep V. Eric and Pam tell the world that Sarah got away from them, but they found a drop of her blood to make New Blood with, and thereby save every infected vampire in the world. In actuality, they are keeping Sarah chained in the basement at Fangtasia, and charging vampires small fortunes to feed on her, as she slowly goes insane. All the while, Eric sits on his throne on the Fangtasia stage, relishing his accomplishments.\n\nEric is frequently referred to as a Viking. In episode 4 of season 3 of \"True Blood\", Eric says he played by the North Sea as a child. In episode 10 of season 3, Pam alludes to Eric being Swedish when she says, \"I have no interest in inheriting your farm on Öland. That place is a windy shit-hole\". Eric also speaks Swedish with Pam and Godric in some episodes.\n\nWe have seen a flashback of the time before Pam's turning, which was portrayed differently in \"True Blood\" than in the books. In the television series, Pam slits her own wrists after Eric denies her request to be turned, forcing him to do it to save her life. In the books, it is said that Eric offered her immortality.\n"}
{"id": "1248929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248929", "title": "Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder", "text": "Fetal alcohol spectrum disorder\n\nFetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. Problems may include an abnormal appearance, short height, low body weight, small head size, poor coordination, low intelligence, behavior problems, and problems with hearing or seeing. Those affected are more likely to have trouble in school, legal problems, participate in high-risk behaviors, and have trouble with alcohol or other drugs. The most severe form of the condition is known as fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). Other types include partial fetal alcohol syndrome (pFAS), alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND) and alcohol-related birth defects (ARBD). Some accept only FAS as a diagnosis, seeing the evidence as inconclusive with respect to other types.\nFetal alcohol spectrum disorders are caused by drinking alcohol during pregnancy. Surveys from the United States have found about 10% of pregnant women have drunk alcohol in the last month, and 20% to 30% drank at some point during the pregnancy. About 4.7% of North American women who are pregnant are alcoholics. The risk of problems depends on the amount consumed and the frequency of consumption as well as when during pregnancy the alcohol is consumed. Other risk factors include an older mother, smoking, and poor diet. There is no known safe amount or safe time to drink during pregnancy. While drinking small amounts of alcohol does not cause abnormalities in the face, it may cause behavioral issues. Alcohol crosses the blood brain barrier and both directly and indirectly affects a developing baby. Diagnosis is based on signs and symptoms in the person.\nFetal alcohol spectrum disorders are preventable by avoiding alcohol. For this reason, medical authorities recommend no alcohol during pregnancy or while trying to become pregnant. While the condition is permanent, treatment can improve outcomes. Interventions may include parent-child interaction therapy, efforts to modify child behavior, and possibly medications.\nFASD is estimated to affect between 2% and 5% of people in the United States and Western Europe. FAS is believed to occur in between 0.2 and 9 per 1000 live births in the United States. In South Africa, some populations have rates as high as 9%. The negative effects of alcohol during pregnancy have been described since ancient times. The lifetime cost per child with FAS was $2,000,000 in 2002 in the US. The term \"fetal alcohol syndrome\" was first used in 1973.\nFASDs encompass a range of physical and neurodevelopmental problems that can result from prenatal alcohol exposure. The most severe condition is called fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), which refers to individuals who have a specific set of birth defects and neurodevelopmental disorders characteristic of the diagnosis.\n\nSome accept only FAS as a diagnosis, seeing the evidence as inconclusive with respect to other types. Partial fetal alcohol syndrome (pFAS) refers to individuals with a known, or highly suspected, history of prenatal alcohol exposure who have alcohol-related physical and neurodevelopmental deficits that do not meet the full criteria for FAS. The subtypes of pFAS are alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND) and alcohol-related birth defects (ARBD). In addition to FAS, pFAS, ARND, and ARBD, any other conditions believed to be related to prenatal alcohol exposure, such as spontaneous abortion and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), are also considered to be on the spectrum of related disorders. It is unclear if identifying a FASD-related conditions benefits the individual.\n\nThe key of FASD can vary between individuals exposed to alcohol during pregnancy. While consensus exists for the definition and diagnosis of FAS, minor variations among the systems lead to differences in definitions and diagnostic cut-off criteria for other diagnoses across the FASD continuum. The central nervous system damage criteria particularly lack clear consensus. A working knowledge of the key features is helpful in understanding FASD diagnoses and conditions, and each is reviewed with attention to similarities and differences across the four diagnostic systems. More than 400 problems, however, can occur with FASD.\n\nIn terms of FASD, growth deficiency is defined as significantly below average height, weight or both due to prenatal alcohol exposure, and can be assessed at any point in the lifespan. Growth measurements must be adjusted for parental height, gestational age (for a premature infant), and other postnatal insults (e.g., poor nutrition), although birth height and weight are the preferred measurements. Deficiencies are documented when height or weight falls at or below the 10th percentile of standardized growth charts appropriate to the population.\n\nCriteria for FASD are least specific in the IOM diagnostic system (\"low birth weight..., decelerating weight not due to nutrition..., [or] disproportional low weight to height\" p. 4 of executive summary), while the CDC and Canadian guidelines use the 10th percentile as a cut-off to determine growth deficiency. The \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" allows for mid-range gradations in growth deficiency (between the 3rd and 10th percentiles) and severe growth deficiency at or below the 3rd percentile. Growth deficiency (at severe, moderate, or mild levels) contributes to diagnoses of FAS and pFAS, but not ARND or static encephalopathy.\n\nGrowth deficiency is ranked as follows by the \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\":\n\n\nIn the initial studies that discovered FAS, growth deficiency was a requirement for inclusion in the studies; thus, all the original people with FAS had growth deficiency as an artifact of sampling characteristics used to establish criteria for the syndrome. That is, growth deficiency is a key feature of FASD because growth deficiency was a criterion for inclusion in the study that defined FAS. This suggests growth deficiency may be less critical for understanding the disabilities of FASD than the neurobehavioral sequelae to the brain damage.\n\nSeveral characteristic craniofacial abnormalities are often visible in individuals with FAS. The presence of FAS facial features indicates brain damage, although brain damage may also exist in their absence. FAS facial features (and most other visible, but non-diagnostic, deformities) are believed to be caused mainly during the 10th and 20th week of gestation.\n\nRefinements in diagnostic criteria since 1975 have yielded three distinctive and diagnostically significant facial features known to result from prenatal alcohol exposure and distinguishes FAS from other disorders with partially overlapping characteristics. The three FAS facial features are:\n\n\nMeasurement of FAS facial features uses criteria developed by the University of Washington. The lip and philtrum are measured by a trained physician with the Lip-Philtrum Guide, a five-point Likert Scale with representative photographs of lip and philtrum combinations ranging from normal (ranked 1) to severe (ranked 5). Palpebral fissure length (PFL) is measured in millimeters with either calipers or a clear ruler and then compared to a PFL growth chart, also developed by the University of Washington.\n\nRanking FAS facial features is complicated because the three separate facial features can be affected independently by prenatal alcohol. A summary of the criteria follows:\n\n\nCentral nervous system (CNS) damage is the primary key feature of any FASD diagnosis. Prenatal alcohol exposure, which is classified as a teratogen, can damage the brain across a continuum of gross to subtle impairments, depending on the amount, timing, and frequency of the exposure as well as genetic predispositions of the fetus and mother. While functional abnormalities are the behavioral and cognitive expressions of the FASD disability, CNS damage can be assessed in three areas: structural, neurological, and functional impairments.\n\nAll four diagnostic systems allow for assessment of CNS damage in these areas, but criteria vary. The IOM system requires structural or neurological impairment for a diagnosis of FAS, but also allows a \"complex pattern\" of functional anomalies for diagnosing PFAS and ARND. The \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" and CDC guidelines allow for a positive CNS finding in any of the three areas for any FASD diagnosis, but functional anomalies must measure at two standard deviations or worse in three or more functional domains for a diagnosis of FAS, PFAS, and ARND. The \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" also allows for an FASD diagnosis when only two functional domains are measured at two standard deviations or worse. The \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" further elaborates the degree of CNS damage according to four ranks:\n\n\nStructural abnormalities of the brain are observable, physical damage to the brain or brain structures caused by prenatal alcohol exposure. Structural impairments may include microcephaly (small head size) of two or more standard deviations below the average, or other abnormalities in brain structure (e.g., agenesis of the corpus callosum, cerebellar hypoplasia).\n\nMicrocephaly is determined by comparing head circumference (often called occipitofrontal circumference, or OFC) to appropriate OFC growth charts. Other structural impairments must be observed through medical imaging techniques by a trained physician. Because imaging procedures are expensive and relatively inaccessible to most people, diagnosis of FAS is not frequently made via structural impairments, except for microcephaly.\n\nEvidence of a CNS structural impairment due to prenatal alcohol exposure will result in a diagnosis of FAS, and neurological and functional impairments are highly likely.\n\nDuring the first trimester of pregnancy, alcohol interferes with the migration and organization of brain cells, which can create structural deformities or deficits within the brain. During the third trimester, damage can be caused to the hippocampus, which plays a role in memory, learning, emotion, and encoding visual and auditory information, all of which can create neurological and functional CNS impairments as well.\n\nAs of 2002, there were 25 reports of autopsies on infants known to have FAS. The first was in 1973, on an infant who died shortly after birth. The examination revealed extensive brain damage, including microcephaly, migration anomalies, callosal dysgenesis, and a massive neuroglial, leptomeningeal heterotopia covering the left hemisphere.\n\nIn 1977, Dr. Clarren described a second infant whose mother was a binge drinker. The infant died ten days after birth. The autopsy showed severe hydrocephalus, abnormal neuronal migration, and a small corpus callosum (which connects the two brain hemispheres) and cerebellum. FAS has also been linked to brainstem and cerebellar changes, agenesis of the corpus callosum and anterior commissure, neuronal migration errors, absent olfactory bulbs, meningomyelocele, and porencephaly.\n\nWhen structural impairments are not observable or do not exist, neurological impairments are assessed. In the context of FASD, neurological impairments are caused by prenatal alcohol exposure which causes general neurological damage to the central nervous system (CNS), the peripheral nervous system, or the autonomic nervous system. A determination of a neurological problem must be made by a trained physician, and must not be due to a postnatal insult, such as a high fever, concussion, traumatic brain injury, etc.\n\nAll four diagnostic systems show virtual agreement on their criteria for CNS damage at the neurological level, and evidence of a CNS neurological impairment due to prenatal alcohol exposure will result in a diagnosis of FAS or pFAS, and functional impairments are highly likely.\n\nNeurological problems are expressed as either hard signs, or diagnosable disorders, such as epilepsy or other seizure disorders, or soft signs. Soft signs are broader, nonspecific neurological impairments, or symptoms, such as impaired fine motor skills, neurosensory hearing loss, poor gait, clumsiness, poor eye-hand coordination. Many soft signs have norm-referenced criteria, while others are determined through clinical judgment. \"Clinical judgment\" is only as good as the clinician, and soft signs should be assessed by either a pediatric neurologist, a pediatric neuropsychologist, or both.\n\nWhen structural or neurological impairments are not observed, all four diagnostic systems allow CNS damage due to prenatal alcohol exposure to be assessed in terms of functional impairments. Functional impairments are deficits, problems, delays, or abnormalities due to prenatal alcohol exposure (rather than hereditary causes or postnatal insults) in observable and measurable domains related to daily functioning, often referred to as developmental disabilities. There is no consensus on a specific pattern of functional impairments due to prenatal alcohol exposure and only CDC guidelines label developmental delays as such, so criteria (and FASD diagnoses) vary somewhat across diagnostic systems.\n\nThe four diagnostic systems list various CNS domains that can qualify for functional impairment that can determine an FASD diagnosis:\n\n\nOther conditions may commonly co-occur with FAS, stemming from prenatal alcohol exposure. However, these conditions are considered alcohol-related birth defects and not diagnostic criteria for FAS.\n\n\nFetal alcohol syndrome usually occurs when a pregnant woman has more than four standard drinks per day. Milder symptoms have been found with two drinks per day during the early part of pregnancy. Among those who are alcoholic about a third of children have FAS.\n\nEvidence of harm from less than two drinks per day or 10 drinks per week is not clear. While small amounts of alcohol do not cause an abnormal appearance, it may cause behavioral issues. There is conflicting evidence regarding whether drinking by fathers before conception can cause FAS.\n\nDespite intense research efforts, the exact mechanism for the development of FAS or FASD is unknown. On the contrary, clinical and animal studies have identified a broad spectrum of pathways through which maternal alcohol can negatively affect the outcome of a pregnancy. Clear conclusions with universal validity are difficult to draw, since different ethnic groups show considerable genetic polymorphism for the hepatic enzymes responsible for ethanol detoxification.\n\nGenetic examinations have revealed a continuum of long-lasting molecular effects that are not only timing specific but are also dosage specific; with even moderate amounts being able to cause alterations.\n\nA human fetus appears to be at triple risk from maternal alcohol consumption:\n\nBecause admission of alcohol use during pregnancy can stigmatize birth mothers, many are reluctant to admit drinking or to provide an accurate report of the quantity they drank. This complicates diagnosis and treatment of the syndrome. As a result, diagnosis of the severity of FASD relies on protocols of observation of the child's physiology and behavior rather than maternal self-reporting. \nPresently, four FASD diagnostic systems that diagnose FAS and other FASD conditions have been developed in North America:\n\nEach diagnostic system requires that a complete FASD evaluation includes an assessment of the four key features of FASD, described below. A positive finding on all four features is required for a diagnosis of FAS. However, prenatal alcohol exposure and central nervous system damage are the critical elements of the spectrum of FASD, and a positive finding in these two features is sufficient for an FASD diagnosis that is not \"full-blown FAS\".\n\nWhile the four diagnostic systems essentially agree on criteria for fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), there are still differences when full criteria for FAS are not met. This has resulted in differing and evolving nomenclature for other conditions across the spectrum of FASD, which may account for such a wide variety of terminology. Most individuals with deficits resulting from prenatal alcohol exposure do not express all features of FAS and fall into other FASD conditions. The Canadian guidelines recommend the assessment and descriptive approach of the \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" for each key feature of FASD and the terminology of the IOM in diagnostic categories, excepting ARBD.\n\nThus, other FASD conditions are partial expressions of FAS. However, these other FASD conditions may create disabilities similar to FAS if the key area of central nervous system damage shows clinical deficits in two or more of ten domains of brain functioning. Essentially, even though growth deficiency and/or FAS facial features may be mild or nonexistent in other FASD conditions, yet clinically significant brain damage of the central nervous system is present. In these other FASD conditions, an individual may be at greater risk for adverse outcomes because brain damage is present without associated visual cues of poor growth or the \"FAS face\" that might ordinarily trigger an FASD evaluation. Such individuals may be misdiagnosed with primary mental health disorders such as ADHD or oppositional defiance disorder without appreciation that brain damage is the underlying cause of these disorders, which requires a different treatment paradigm than typical mental health disorders. While other FASD conditions may not yet be included as an ICD or DSM-IV-TR diagnosis, they nonetheless pose significant impairment in functional behavior because of underlying brain damage.\n\nThe following criteria must be fully met for an FAS diagnosis:\n\n\nFetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the first diagnosable condition of FASD that was discovered. FAS is the only expression of FASD that has garnered consensus among experts to become an official ICD-9 and ICD-10 diagnosis. To make this diagnosis or determine any FASD condition, a multi-disciplinary evaluation is necessary to assess each of the four key features for assessment. Generally, a trained physician will determine growth deficiency and FAS facial features. While a qualified physician may also assess central nervous system structural abnormalities and/or neurological problems, usually central nervous system damage is determined through psychological, speech-language, and occupational therapy assessments to ascertain clinically significant impairments in three or more of the Ten Brain Domains. Prenatal alcohol exposure risk may be assessed by a qualified physician, psychologist, social worker, or chemical health counselor. These professionals work together as a team to assess and interpret data of each key feature for assessment and develop an integrative, multi-disciplinary report to diagnose FAS (or other FASD conditions) in an individual.\n\nPartial FAS (pFAS), previously known as atypical FAS in the 1997 edition of the \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\". People with pFAS have a confirmed history of prenatal alcohol exposure, but may lack growth deficiency or the complete facial stigmata. Central nervous system damage is present at the same level as FAS. These individuals have the same functional disabilities but \"look\" less like FAS.\n\nThe following criteria must be fully met for a diagnosis of Partial FAS:\n\n\nFetal alcohol effects (FAE) is a previous term for alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder and alcohol-related birth defects. It was initially used in research studies to describe humans and animals in whom teratogenic effects were seen after confirmed prenatal alcohol exposure (or unknown exposure for humans), but without obvious physical anomalies. Smith (1981) described FAE as an \"extremely important concept\" to highlight the debilitating effects of brain damage, regardless of the growth or facial features. This term has fallen out of favor with clinicians because it was often regarded by the public as a less severe disability than FAS, when in fact its effects can be just as detrimental.\n\nAlcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND) was initially suggested by the Institute of Medicine to replace the term FAE and focus on central nervous system damage, rather than growth deficiency or FAS facial features. The Canadian guidelines also use this diagnosis and the same criteria. While the \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" includes these criteria for three of its diagnostic categories, it refers to this condition as static encephalopathy. The behavioral effects of ARND are not necessarily unique to alcohol however, so use of the term must be within the context of confirmed prenatal alcohol exposure. ARND may be gaining acceptance over the terms FAE and ARBD to describe FASD conditions with central nervous system abnormalities or behavioral or cognitive abnormalities or both due to prenatal alcohol exposure without regard to growth deficiency or FAS facial features.\n\nThe following criteria must be fully met for a diagnosis of ARND or static encephalopathy:\n\n\nAlcohol-related birth defects (ARBD), formerly known as possible fetal alcohol effect (PFAE), was a term proposed as an alternative to FAE and PFAE The IOM presents ARBD as a list of congenital anomalies that are linked to maternal alcohol use but have no key features of FASD. PFAE and ARBD have fallen out of favor because these anomalies are not necessarily specific to maternal alcohol consumption and are not criteria for diagnosis of FASD. The Canadian guidelines recommend that ARBD should not be used as an umbrella term or diagnostic category for FASD.\n\nPrenatal alcohol exposure is determined by interview of the biological mother or other family members knowledgeable of the mother's alcohol use during the pregnancy (if available), prenatal health records (if available), and review of available birth records, court records (if applicable), chemical dependency treatment records (if applicable), or other reliable sources.\n\nExposure level is assessed as \"confirmed exposure\", \"unknown exposure\", and \"confirmed absence of exposure\" by the IOM, CDC and Canadian diagnostic systems. The \"4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" further distinguishes confirmed exposure as \"High Risk\" and \"Some Risk\":\n\n\nAmount, frequency, and timing of prenatal alcohol use can dramatically impact the other three key features of FASD. While consensus exists that alcohol is a teratogen, there is no clear consensus as to what level of exposure is toxic. The CDC guidelines are silent on these elements diagnostically. The IOM and Canadian guidelines explore this further, acknowledging the importance of significant alcohol exposure from regular or heavy episodic alcohol consumption in determining, but offer no standard for diagnosis. Canadian guidelines discuss this lack of clarity and parenthetically point out that \"heavy alcohol use\" is defined by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism as five or more drinks per episode on five or more days during a 30-day period.\n\n\"The 4-Digit Diagnostic Code\" ranking system distinguishes between levels of prenatal alcohol exposure as \"high risk\" and \"some risk\". It operationalizes high risk exposure as a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) greater than 100 mg/dL delivered at least weekly in early pregnancy. This BAC level is typically reached by a 55 kg female drinking six to eight beers in one sitting.\n\nFor many adopted or adults and children in foster care, records or other reliable sources may not be available for review. Reporting alcohol use during pregnancy can also be stigmatizing to birth mothers, especially if alcohol use is ongoing. In these cases, all diagnostic systems use an unknown prenatal alcohol exposure designation. A diagnosis of FAS is still possible with an unknown exposure level if other key features of FASD are present at clinical levels.\n\nConfirmed absence of exposure would apply to planned pregnancies in which no alcohol was used or pregnancies of women who do not use alcohol or report no use during the pregnancy. This designation is relatively rare, as most people presenting for an FASD evaluation are at least \"suspected\" to have had a prenatal alcohol exposure due to presence of other key features of FASD.\n\nA recent effort to standardize assessment of functional CNS damage has been suggested by an experienced FASD diagnostic team in Minnesota. The proposed framework attempts to harmonize IOM, 4-Digit Diagnostic Code, CDC, and Canadian guidelines for measuring CNS damage vis-à-vis FASD evaluations and diagnosis. The standardized approach is referred to as the Ten Brain Domains and encompasses aspects of all four diagnostic systems' recommendations for assessing CNS damage due to prenatal alcohol exposure. The framework provides clear definitions of brain dysfunction, specifies empirical data needed for accurate diagnosis, and defines intervention considerations that address the complex nature of FASD with the intention to avoid common secondary disabilities.\n\nThe proposed Ten Brain Domains include:\n\nThe Fetal Alcohol Diagnostic Program (FADP) uses unpublished Minnesota state criteria of performance at 1.5 or more standard deviations on standardized testing in three or more of the Ten Brain Domains to determine CNS damage. However, the Ten Brain Domains are easily incorporated into any of the four diagnostic systems' CNS damage criteria, as the framework only proposes the domains, rather than the cut-off criteria for FASD.\n\nThe CDC reviewed nine syndromes that have overlapping features with FAS; however, none of these syndromes include all three FAS facial features, and none are the result of prenatal alcohol exposure:\n\nThe only certain way to prevent FAS is to avoid drinking alcohol during pregnancy. In the United States, the Surgeon General recommended in 1981, and again in 2005, that women abstain from alcohol use while pregnant or while planning a pregnancy, the latter to avoid damage even in the earliest stages (even weeks) of a pregnancy, as the woman may not be aware that she has conceived. In the United States, federal legislation has required that warning labels be placed on all alcoholic beverage containers since 1988 under the Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act.\n\nThere is some controversy surrounding the \"zero-tolerance\" approach taken by many countries when it comes to alcohol consumption during pregnancy. The assertion that moderate drinking causes FAS is said to lack strong evidence and, in fact, the practice of equating a responsible level of drinking with potential harm to the fetus may have negative social, legal, and health impacts. In addition, special care should be taken when considering statistics on this disease, as prevalence and causation is often linked with FASD, which is more common and causes less harm, as opposed to FAS.\n\nThere is no cure for FASD, but treatment is possible. Because CNS damage, symptoms, secondary disabilities, and needs vary widely by individual, there is no one treatment type that works for everyone.\n\nPsychoactive drugs are frequently tried on those with FASD as many FASD symptoms are mistaken for or overlap with other disorders, most notably ADHD.\n\nBehavioral interventions are based on the learning theory, which is the basis for many parenting and professional strategies and interventions. Along with ordinary parenting styles, such strategies are frequently used by default for treating those with FAS, as the diagnoses oppositional defiance disorder (ODD), conduct disorder, reactive attachment disorder (RAD) often overlap with FAS (along with ADHD), and these are sometimes thought to benefit from behavioral interventions. Frequently, a person's poor academic achievement results in special education services, which also utilizes principles of learning theory, behavior modification, and outcome-based education.\n\nMany books and handouts on FAS recommend a developmental approach, based on developmental psychology, even though most do not specify it as such and provide little theoretical background. Optimal human development generally occurs in identifiable stages (e.g., Jean Piaget's theory of cognitive development, Erik Erikson's stages of psychosocial development, John Bowlby's attachment framework, and other developmental stage theories). FAS interferes with normal development, which may cause stages to be delayed, skipped, or immaturely developed. Over time, an unaffected child can negotiate the increasing demands of life by progressing through stages of development normally, but not so for a child with FAS.\n\nBy knowing what developmental stages and tasks children follow, treatment and interventions for FAS can be tailored to helping a person meet developmental tasks and demands successfully. If a person is delayed in the adaptive behavior domain, for instance, then interventions would be recommended to target specific delays through additional education and practice (e.g., practiced instruction on tying shoelaces), giving reminders, or making accommodations (e.g., using slip-on shoes) to support the desired functioning level. This approach is an advance over behavioral interventions, because it takes the person's developmental context into account while developing interventions.\n\nThe advocacy model takes the point of view that someone is needed to actively mediate between the environment and the person with FAS. Advocacy activities are conducted by an advocate (for example, a family member, friend, or case manager) and fall into three basic categories. An advocate for FAS: (1) interprets FAS and the disabilities that arise from it and explains it to the environment in which the person operates, (2) engenders change or accommodation on behalf of the person, and (3) assists the person in developing and reaching attainable goals.\n\nThe advocacy model is often recommended, for example, when developing an Individualized Education Program (IEP) for the person's progress at school.\n\nAn understanding of the developmental framework would presumably inform and enhance the advocacy model, but advocacy also implies interventions at a systems level as well, such as educating schools, social workers, and so forth on best practices for FAS. However, several organizations devoted to FAS also use the advocacy model at a community practice level as well.\n\nTreating FAS at the public health and public policy level promotes FAS prevention and diversion of public resources to assist those with FAS. It is related to the advocacy model but promoted at a systems level (rather than with the individual or family), such as developing community education and supports, state or province level prevention efforts (e.g., screening for maternal alcohol use during OB/GYN or prenatal medical care visits), or national awareness programs. Several organizations and state agencies in the U.S. are dedicated to this type of intervention.\n\nThe US Centers for Disease Control estimates 3 million women in the United States are at risk of having a baby with FASD, and recommended that women of child-bearing age should be on birth control or abstain from drinking alcohol as the safest way to avoid this.\n\nThe primary disabilities of FAS are the functional difficulties with which the child is born as a result of CNS damage due to prenatal alcohol exposure. Often, primary disabilities are mistaken as \"behavior problems\", but the underlying CNS damage is the originating source of a functional difficulty, rather than a mental health condition, which is considered a secondary disability.\n\nThe exact mechanisms for functional problems of primary disabilities are not always fully understood, but animal studies have begun to shed light on some correlates between functional problems and brain structures damaged by prenatal alcohol exposure. Representative examples include:\n\n\nFunctional difficulties may result from CNS damage in more than one domain, but common functional difficulties by domain include: Note that this is not an exhaustive list of difficulties.\n\n\nThe secondary disabilities of FAS are those that arise later in life secondary to CNS damage. These disabilities often emerge over time due to a mismatch between the primary disabilities and environmental expectations; secondary disabilities can be ameliorated with early interventions and appropriate supportive services.\n\nSix main secondary disabilities were identified in a University of Washington research study of 473 subjects diagnosed with FAS, PFAS (partial fetal alcohol syndrome), and ARND (alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder):\n\n\nTwo additional secondary disabilities exist for adults:\n\n\nEight factors were identified in the same study as universal protective factors that reduced the incidence rate of the secondary disabilities:\n\nMalbin (2002) has identified the following areas of interests and talents as strengths that often stand out for those with FASD and should be utilized, like any strength, in treatment planning:\n\nFASD is estimated to affect between 2% and 5% of people in the United States and Western Europe. FAS is believed to occur in between 0.2 and 9 per 1000 live births in the United States. The lifetime cost of an individual with FAS were estimated to be two million USD in 2002.\n\nFASD among Australian youth is more common in indigenous Australians. The\nonly states that have registered birth defects in Australian youth are Western Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. In Australia only 12% of Australian health professionals are aware of the diagnostics and symptoms of FASD.\nIn Western Australia, the rate of births resulting in FASD is 0.02 per 1000 births for non-Indigenous Australians, however among indigenous births the rate is 2.76 per 1000 births. In Victoria, there have been no registered FASD related births for indigenous Australians, but the rate for the general population in Victoria is 0.01-0.03 per 1000 births. There have been no dedicated FASD clinics within Western Australia, but there are also no nationally supported diagnostic criteria anywhere in Australia. Passive surveillance is a prevention technique used within Australia to assist in monitoring and establishing detectable defects during pregnancy and childhood.\n\nFrom the 1960s to the 1980s, alcohol was commonly used as a tocolytic, a method to stop preterm labor. The method originated with Dr. Fritz Fuchs, the chairman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Cornell University Medical College. Doctors recommended a small amount of alcohol to calm the uterus during contractions in early pregnancy or Braxton Hicks contractions. In later stages of pregnancy, the alcohol was administered intravenously and often in large amounts. \"Women experienced similar effects as occur with oral ingestion, including intoxication, nausea and vomiting, and potential alcohol poisoning, followed by hangovers when the alcohol was discontinued.\" Vomiting put the mother at a high risk for aspiration and was \"a brutal procedure for all involved.\" Because the alcohol was being given intravenously, the doctor could continue giving the treatment to the mother long after she had passed out, resulting in her being more intoxicated than would otherwise be possible. Such heavy intoxication is highly likely to contribute to FASD.\n\nAnecdotal accounts of prohibitions against maternal alcohol use from Biblical, ancient Greek, and ancient Roman sources imply a historical awareness of links between maternal alcohol use and negative child outcomes. For example, in the Bible, Judges 13:4 (addressed to a woman who was going to have a baby) reads: \"Therefore be careful and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean\" (ESV). In 1725 British physicians petitioned the House of Commons on the effects of strong drink when consumed by pregnant women saying that such drinking is “…too often the cause of weak, feeble, and distempered children, who must be, instead of an advantage and strength, a charge to their country.” There are many other such historical references. In Gaelic Scotland, the mother and nurse were not allowed to consume ale during pregnancy and breastfeeding (Martin Martin). Claims that alcohol consumption caused idiocy were part of the Teetotalism's message in the 19th century, but such claims, despite some attempts to offer evidence, were ignored because no mechanism could be advanced.\n\nThe earliest recorded observation of possible links between maternal alcohol use and fetal damage was made in 1899 by Dr. William Sullivan, a Liverpool prison physician who noted higher rates of stillbirth for 120 alcoholic female prisoners than their sober female relatives; he suggested the causal agent to be alcohol use. This contradicted the predominating belief at the time that heredity caused intellectual disability, poverty, and criminal behavior, which contemporary studies on the subjects usually concluded. A case study by Henry H. Goddard of the Kallikak family—popular in the early 1900s—represents this earlier perspective, though later researchers have suggested that the Kallikaks almost certainly had FAS. General studies and discussions on alcoholism throughout the mid-1900s were typically based on a heredity argument.\n\nPrior to fetal alcohol syndrome being specifically identified and named in 1973, only a few studies had noted differences between the children of mothers who used alcohol during pregnancy or breast-feeding and those who did not, and identified alcohol use as a possible contributing factor rather than heredity.\n\nFetal Alcohol Syndrome was named in 1973 by two dysmorphologists, Drs. Kenneth Lyons Jones and David Weyhe Smith of the University of Washington Medical School in Seattle, United States. They identified a pattern of \"craniofacial, limb, and cardiovascular defects associated with prenatal onset growth deficiency and developmental delay\" in eight unrelated children of three ethnic groups, all born to mothers who were alcoholics. The pattern of malformations indicated that the damage was prenatal. News of the discovery shocked some, while others were skeptical of the findings.\n\nDr. Paul Lemoine of Nantes, France had already published a study in a French medical journal in 1968 about children with distinctive features whose mothers were alcoholics, and in the U.S., Christy Ulleland and colleagues at the University of Washington Medical School had conducted an 18-month study in 1968–1969 documenting the risk of maternal alcohol consumption among the offspring of 11 alcoholic mothers. The Washington and Nantes findings were confirmed by a research group in Gothenburg, Sweden in 1979. Researchers in France, Sweden, and the United States were struck by how similar these children looked, though they were not related, and how they behaved in the same unfocused and hyperactive manner.\n\nWithin nine years of the Washington discovery, animal studies, including non-human monkey studies carried out at the University of Washington Primate Center by Dr. Sterling Clarren, had confirmed that alcohol was a teratogen. By 1978, 245 cases of FAS had been reported by medical researchers, and the syndrome began to be described as the most frequent known cause of intellectual disability.\n\nWhile many syndromes are eponymous, i.e. named after the physician first reporting the association of symptoms, Dr. Smith named FAS after the causal agent of the symptoms. He reasoned that doing so would encourage prevention, believing that if people knew maternal alcohol consumption caused the syndrome, then abstinence during pregnancy would follow from patient education and public awareness. At the time, nobody was aware of the full range of possible birth defects from FAS or its rate of prevalence. \nOver time, as subsequent research and clinical experience suggested that a range of effects (including physical, behavioral, and cognitive) could arise from prenatal alcohol exposure, the term Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) was developed to include FAS as well as other conditions resulting from prenatal alcohol exposure. Currently, FAS is the only expression of prenatal alcohol exposure defined by the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems and assigned ICD-9 and diagnoses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35644876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35644876", "title": "Forced Abortion Condemnation Act", "text": "Forced Abortion Condemnation Act\n\nForced Abortion Condemnation Act is a bill, introduced at the 105th United States Congress on September 29, 1997 by the Republican sponsor Tillie Fowler. It sought to \"condemn those officials of the Chinese Communist Party, the Government of the People's Republic of China, and other persons who are involved in the enforcement of forced abortions by preventing such persons from entering or remaining in the United States\". On November 6, 1997 the bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives, but was not passed by the Senate.\n\nThe bill was re-introduced on January 6, 1999 at the subsequent meeting of the U.S. Congress, but was not enacted either as it was opposed by the Clinton administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "55680227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55680227", "title": "Foreign animal disease", "text": "Foreign animal disease\n\nA Foreign animal disease (FAD) is an animal disease or pest, whether terrestrial or aquatic, not known to exist in the United States or its territories. When these diseases can significantly affect human health or animal production and when there is significant economic cost for disease control and eradication efforts, they are considered a threat to the United States. Another term gaining preference to be used is Transboundary Animal Disease (TAD), which is defined as \"those epidemic diseases which are highly contagious or transmissible and have the potential for very rapid spread, irrespective of national borders, causing serious socio-economic and possibly public health consequences.\" An Emerging Animal Disease \"may be defined as any terrestrial animal, aquatic animal, or zoonotic disease not yet known or characterized, or any known or characterized terrestrial animal or aquatic animal disease in the United States or its territories that changes or mutates in pathogenicity, communicability, or zoonotic potential to become a threat to terrestrial animals, aquatic animals, or humans.\"\n\nA foreign animal disease in the United States has the potential to threaten food security, cause production losses for livestock producers while significantly increasing livestock production costs through costly disease control measures, affect the income of livestock producers, disrupt movement of livestock and livestock products, cause animal welfare problems in affected animals, possibly cause public health issues, and cause environmental consequences with the wildlife populations.\n\nWorld Organization for Animal Health (historical acronym OIE- the Office International des Epizooties) The OIE originated in 1924 with the ratification of an international agreement of 28 States on January 25, 1924. The membership currently shown (2017) is 181 members countries. This is the intergovernmental organization responsible for improving animal health worldwide, and is recognized as a reference organization by the World Trade Organization (WTO). The headquarters for the OIE are located in Paris. The objectives of the OIE are to \"ensure transparency in the global animal disease situation\", to \"collect, analyse and disseminate veterinary scientific information\", to \"encourage international solidarity in the control of animal diseases\", to \"safeguard world trade by publishing health standards for international trade in animals and animal products\", to improve the legal framework and resources of national Veterinary Services\", and \"to provide a better guarantee of food of animal origin and to promote animal welfare through a science-based approach\".\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) The FAO is an intergovernmental organization of 194 Member Nations, two associate members and one member organization, the European Union, and headquartered in Rome, Italy. The FAO was initially established as a specialized United Nations agency in 1945 at the first session of FAO conference in Quebec City, Canada. The main effort of the FAO is to achieve food security for all, and their stated three main goals are: \"the eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition; the elimination of poverty and the driving forward of economic and social progress for all; and, the sustainable management and utilization of natural resources, including land, water, air, climate and genetic resources for the benefit of present and future generations.\" The FAO creates and shares critical information about food, agriculture and natural resources by identifying and working with different partners with established expertise and facilitating connections. The FAO has a role in animal health. High-impact animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease or African swine fevers may not directly affect human health, but they do affect food and nutrition security and livestock production and trade. A recent successful example has been the global eradication of rinderpest in 2011. The FAO has animal health programs to establish best practices to prevent and control priority diseases which threaten animal production, public health and trade through its international and regional networks, animal health projects and disseminating practical information. These programs include:\nThe FAO Emergency Prevention System (EMPRES) Animal Health develops strategies for intervention and improved management. It works to monitor and give early warning and ultimately to prevent animal diseases. The EMPRES works to prevent and control diseases at their source.\nThe Emergency Centre for Transboundary Animal Diseases (ECTAD) is FAO's corporate center for the planning and delivery of veterinary assistance to FAO member countries responding to the threat of transboundary animal health crises.\n\nThe FAO Food Chain Crisis Management Framework, grouping the three thematic EMPRES, provides an effective, multidisciplinary and coherent approach to threats affecting the food chain by integrating prevention, early warning, preparedness and response.\n\nThe Crisis Management Centre-Animal Health (CMC-AH) is FAO's rapid response unit to animal disease emergencies. The CMC-AH is a joint division of FAO's Animal Production and Health and Emergency and Rehabilitation Divisions, and established in partnership with the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE). The CMC-AH sends rapid response missions to countries to help assess epidemiological situations, diagnose outbreaks of animal diseases, and set up immediate measure to prevent or stop disease spread.\n\nUSDA/APHIS The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and is the lead agency in an animal disease outbreak. APHIS is divided into 6 operational program units, 3 management support units, and 2 offices supporting federal government-wide initiatives. One of the APHIS operational program units is Veterinary Services.\n\nVeterinary Services (VS) The VS protects and improves the health, quality, and marketability of the animals, animal products, and veterinary biologics of the United States by preventing, controlling, and/or eliminating animal diseases, and monitoring, and promoting animal health and productivity. The VS has primary responsibility in a disease outbreak involving domestic livestock and/or poultry. The VS is divided into three operational units:\n\nThe Surveillance, Preparedness and Response Services (SPRS) unit manages disease outbreaks (animal health incident management), surveillance programs, animal disease traceability programs, epidemiological investigations, commodity business planning, and One Health programs. The SPRS also manages the Logistics Center, which includes the National Veterinary Stockpile. Also part of the SPRS is the National Preparedness and Incident Coordination Center (NPIC), which has the responsibility for animal disease traceability, The National Animal Health Emergency Response Corps, the National Veterinary Accreditation Program, and Preparedness and Incident Coordination. The activities of the NPIC include developing and distributing emergency response guidelines based on the National Incident Management System and National Response Framework, developing foreign animal disease preparedness and response plans (FAD PReP), coordinating investigations and disseminating information about foreign animal disease investigations and events, supporting the Secure Food Supply Plans, and managing at the Emergency Management Response System (a web-based information management system that stores data on FAD investigations, animal health incidents, epidemiological tracing, disease surveillance, and intrastate and interstate animal movement.)\n\nThe National Import Export Services (NIES) unit manages import and export activities, from setting policy to inspection at ports of entry. NIES manages Animal Import Centers and Port Services, the Agricultural Select Agent Program, and the International Animal Health Standards Services, and operates six service centers, several animal quarantine facilities, and multiple ports of entry.\n\nThe Science, Technology and Analysis Services (STAS) includes the Center for Veterinary Biologics, the National Veterinary Services Laboratories, and the Center for Epidemiology and Animal Health. The STAS provides analysis of response options; animal disease modeling; animal health data acquisition, analysis, and interpretation; animal health surveillance design; diagnostic capability and capacity; economic analysis; national animal health laboratory network coordination; national studies and large scale epidemiological investigations; OIE Collaborating Center; predictive modeling; risk assessments; veterinary biologics approval and monitoring regulatory activities.\n\nDepartment of Homeland Security (DHS) The Department of Homeland Security oversees the Office of National Labs (ONL) which includes Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC), National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility (NBAF), National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC), and the Chemical Security Analysis Center (CSAC). The DHS veterinary mission compliments the mission of veterinarians in other Federal agencies. The Office of Health Affairs (OHA) is the Department of Homeland Security's principal authority for all medical and health issues. The Food, Agriculture, and Veterinary Defense (FAVD) Division within the OHA is the responsible authority for veterinary, food, and agriculture defense. The FAVD programs help government decision-makers protect the health and security of the nation by protecting its animals, plants, and food systems. The OHA and FAVD work with all levels of government and the private sector and in coordination with other DHS components works to help to prevent catastrophic incidents, but if such incidents occur then the OHA assists in coordinating the response and recovery. The DHS provides logistics, operations, and administrative support to assist in response efforts, and coordinate united national responses. All OHA veterinarians work in the Weapons of Mass Destruction – Biodefense (WMD-Bio) Office, which focuses on food and agricultural defense and protection. The Animal Production branch within WMD supports the National Veterinary Stockpile, which is managed by USDA, through its development of end to end planning from risk assessment to countermeasure deployment in order to contain catastrophic animal disease outbreaks. The DHS also supports the efforts of the National Animal Health Laboratory Network (NAHLN) which is managed by the USDA and forms part of a nationwide strategy to coordinate the work of all organizations providing animal disease surveillance and testing services. The DHS supports this effort through the DHS management of the Integrated Consortium of Laboratory Networks (ICLN) of which the NAHLN is a member. The purpose of the ICLN is to integrate and coordinate response to and consequences from acts of terrorism and other major incidents requiring laboratory surge capabilities, and to strengthen early detection and management of veterinary catastrophic incidents. Many other DHS agencies also support efforts to protect the food, agriculture, and veterinary resources of the U.S. The Plum Island Animal Disease Center (PIADC) has an interagency mission to protect U.S. agriculture from the threat of high consequence foreign animal diseases. DHS is responsible for operational management of PIADC. Since 1954, the PIADC has served as a front line defense against diseases that could devastate U.S. markets for livestock, meat, milk, and other animal products. PIADC is the only laboratory in the nation that can conduct initial diagnostic testing for foot-and-mouth disease (FMD). The DHS's Science and Technology Directorate takes vaccines developed by ARS, academia, and industry through the regulatory process to develop and license new vaccines and diagnostics for high-threat FADs. Coordinated programs between the Department of Homeland Security's Science and Technology Directorate (DHS) and the Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to provide a comprehensive approach for the defense of U.S. agriculture and defense against threats to the nation's health and economy. The Health Threats Resilience Division in the Office of Health Affairs of the DHS manages programs to help DHS and the U.S. to prepare for and respond to chemical and biological threats, as well as other health threats and hazards. Major programs and initiatives include: the National Biosurveillance Integration Center (NBIC), which integrates, analyzes, and distributes key information about health and disease events to ensure well-informed responses to save lives and minimize economic impact to threats and hazards; and state and local initiatives to help bring health care partners into the homeland security conversation to help communities prepare, plan, and respond to the evolving threat landscape.\n\nU.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS)\n\nU.S. Department of the Interior\n\nU.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)\n\nU.S. Department of Labor/Occupational Safety and Health Administration\n\nU.S. Department of Justice (DOJ)\n\nU.S. Department of Defense (DoD)\n\nU.S. Department of State\n\nAfrican Swine Fever African swine fever (ASF) is a highly contagious viral disease of pigs, endemic in sub-Saharan Africa, with no vaccine or treatment available. The ASF virus has spread through Georgia (2007) into Russia, then Ukraine, Belarus, and other Eastern European countries, and as of 2015 reports of outbreaks continue, mainly in wild boar. Mortality can be near-100 percent in some viral strains causing serious viral hemorrhagic disease while others can have more subtle clinical signs and be difficult to identify. \"With high virulent forms of the virus, ASF is characterized by high fever, loss of appetite, hemorrhages in the skin and internal organs, and death in 2-10 days on average. Mortality rates may be as high as 100%.\" The ASF virus can be transmitted directly between animals, indirectly via fomites, or by tick vectors. Wild suids such as Warthogs are important to maintaining the virus present (by a natural cycle of transmission between warthogs and the soft tick vector O moubata in Africa, but the ASF virus can infect domestic pigs, feral swine, and some members of the wild pig family. The bite of an infected soft tick or ingestion of warthog tissues can spread the virus from the wildlife reservoirs to domestic pigs, then spread can be continued to pig to pig by blood, the oronasal route by direct contact with infected pigs, or by ingestion of waste food containing unprocessed pig meat or pig meat products. Other potential routes for spread can be from feeding food waste collected from international airplanes or ships from countries where ASF is found, feral swine movements, the movement of trucks between infected and disease-free areas, and illegal movement of infected pigs or pork products, whether unintentional (e.g., by tourists) or intentional (e.g., meat smuggling). The risk that the ASF virus can be introduced into the US and North America has increased because of changes in production practices, increasing globalization, and outbreaks of ASF in Europe. If the virus were to enter the US, control measures must be initiated to prevent the spread of the virus and eliminate it as quickly as possible, of which the primary control and eradication strategy will be depopulation of infected and exposed susceptible animals.\n\nClassical swine fever (hog cholera) Classical swine fever (CSF), also known as hog cholera, is a highly contagious and economically significant viral disease specific to swine. The clinical signs of CSF vary from the acute form with generalized disease including high fevers, convulsions, lack of appetite, and high mortality; to the chronic form with similar signs but not as severe as the acute; and to the mild or clinically inapparent form which seldom results in noticeable clinical signs although there may be small litter sizes, stillbirths,and other reproductive failures in addition to high mortality during weaning. Lesions of classical swine fever are clinico-pathologically indistinguishable from African swine fever; it is essential to send samples for laboratory confirmation on suspected cases. Transmission of the virus is mainly thought to be by the oral or oronasal routes, although can also occur by other mucus membranes and skin abrasions. The CSF virus can persist in blood and tissues after death, and can be readily spread by feeding uncooked swill that contains tissue from infected pigs. There is no treatment for CSF; affected pigs must be slaughtered and carcasses buried or incinerated. Classical swine fever was once widespread, but has been eradicated from many countries from domestic swine, including the US. A national eradication program was started in the US in 1962 and resulted in eradication in the US by 1976. Reintroduction of CSF into the US would be devastating.\n\nContagious bovine pleuropneumonia Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) is one of the most important infectious diseases of cattle in Africa. CBPP is caused by \"Mycoplasma mycoides mycoides\" small colony, and is highly contagious with losses up to 80% in naive herds possible, although mortality rates greater than 50% are uncommon. Cattle (both \"Bos taurus\" and \"Bos indicus\") are the primary hosts, but infections have also been reported in Asian buffalo (\"Bubalus bubalis\"), captive bison (\"Bison bison\"), and yak (\"Poephagus grunnien\"). Sheep and goats can also be naturally infected, but without a clear associated pathology, and are not thought to be important in the epidemiology of CBPP. CBPP in cattle attacks the lungs and pleura, and causes anorexia, fever, and respiratory distress, and can occasionally affect the joints. \"M. mycoides\" SC is transmitted animal to animal mainly in respiratory aerosols and inhaling droplets disseminated by coughing, The US eliminated CBPP in 1892 by an intensive quarantine and slaughter program, and was eradicated from most continents, including North America, by the mid-1900s. However, CBPP remains a serious concern in Africa, significantly affecting farmers and the economy, where the annual impact of CPBB is in the millions of dollars. CBPP would most likely be introduced into a CBPP-free country by an infected animal or embryo, as the organism does not survive for long periods on fomites. For prevention, imported animals can be quarantined and serologically tested. In an outbreak situation, CBPP is eradicated with quarantines, movement controls, slaughter of infected and in-contact animals, and cleaning and disinfection.\n\nContagious equine metritis Contagious equine metritis (CEM) is a venereal disease of horses caused by the bacterium \"Taylorella equigenitalis\". CEM is highly contagious, and is transmitted primarily during natural breeding. Transmission can also occur from infected fomites such as contaminated instruments and equipment, and via artificial insemination. Infected stallions show no signs, and almost every mare mated with an infected stallion will become infected. CEM does not cause systemic signs, but affects the reproductive tract, and can cause variable endometritis, cervicitis, vaginitis, and temporary infertility; only rarely causing permanent infertility or inducing abortion. Infected mares can present as an acute form with a copious vaginal discharge 10–14 days after breeding, a chronic form which has a milder uterine inflammation and less obvious discharge, or as a carrier with no obvious symptoms but still infectious to other stallions or mares. CEM occurs rarely in the United States but if the disease were to become widespread in the U.S., it could cause considerable economic loss in the horse industry. Testing for CEM can be done by bacterial culture (looking for the bacteria which causes CEM), blood testing (looking for an immune response to CEM), and test breeding. Test breeding is the breeding of a stallion to two known CEM-free mares, which are then each tested for CEM. Mares and stallions can be successfully treated, and control of CEM relies on identifying those infected and successfully treating them or eliminating them from breeding programs. The occurrence of CEM in the United States is a serious concern, and the USDA requires stallions coming into the United States be tested by both bacterial culture and test breeding.\n\nDourine Dourine (Covering sickness) is a serious protozoal venereal disease of equids, mainly horses, donkeys, and mules, caused by the protozoan parasite \"Trypanosoma\" \"equiperdum\" (subgenus \"Trypanozoon, Salivarian section).\" Dourine has been eradicated from many countries but is still present in horses in Asia, Africa, South America, Southern and Eastern Europe, Mexico, and Russia. Transmission of dourine is almost exclusively during breeding, more commonly from stallions to mares, but can also occur from mares to stallions. Clinical signs are characterized mainly by swelling of the genitalia, cutaneous plaques, and neurological signs often ending in death, with the severity varying depending on the virulence of the strain, the nutritional status of the horse, and stress factors. The mortality rate is believed to be higher than 50%, and some feel that nearly all cases are eventually fatal. The wide use of artificial fertilization technology has resulted in few cases being reported. Dourine can be an economically important disease, and is a well documented trade barrier for the movement of horses. Diagnosis of dourine is based on clinical evidence but requires confirmation by parasitological, serological, and molecular techniques. There is no vaccine available for this disease, and pharmaceutical therapy is not recommended because animals may improve clinically but will remain carriers. Good hygiene at assisted matings must be utilized. Compulsory notification and slaughter of infected horses is used to help control the disease, and most countries legislate control of movement.\n\nFoot-and-mouth disease Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) is a severe highly contagious viral disease affecting cloven-hooved animals, such as cattle, sheep, and swine. FMD was once worldwide but has been largely controlled in developed nations, and has been eradicated from some regions such as North America and western Europe. The disease was eradicated from the United States in 1929. FMD is endemic in parts of Asia, and most of Africa and the Middle East, but FMD can occur sporadically in typically free areas. The organism causing FMS is an aphthovirus in the family \"Picornaviridae\". There are seven major viral serotypes containing collectively more than 60 strains with occasional new strains arising. Vaccines can provide immunity, but each serotype requires its own specific vaccine. The disease is characterized by vesiculation or blistering of the hooves and oval cavity and on the mammary glands, leading to pain and discomfort, and to depression, anorexia, excessive salivation, lameness, and reluctance to move or stand, and causing production losses. The death loss is minimal, but there is a high rate of illness when a susceptible population is infected, and the disease has severe economic implications in the livestock industries. Because of how quickly FMD can spread, with nearly 100 percent of exposed animals ultimately becoming infected, and the significant economic losses it can cause, FMD is a worldwide concern. There is also concern that the FMD virus could be utilized by a terrorist organization or rogue state to perpetuate a terrorist attack against the United States by targeting the $100 billion/year U.S. livestock industry. In 2001, from February to September, an outbreak of FMD in the United Kingdom caused the slaughter of over 4 million animals of sheep, cattle, goats, and pigs to gain control of the disease. The FMD virus is found in all excretions and secretions of an infected animal. Transmission of the virus can be from contact with an infected animal, a contaminated environment used to house or transport susceptible animals, contaminated materials or fomites, people wearing contaminated clothes or footwear or using contaminated equipment, infected meat or animal products fed raw or improperly cooked to susceptible animals, contact with an infected carcass, and from aerosol spread of virus from an infected animal or property via air currents. Prompt reporting of suspicious signs of FMD to the proper agents (state veterinarians, federal animal disease control officials, or county agricultural agents will enable an investigation, testing, and containment should an outbreak occur. Laboratory testing is required to confirm the diagnosis. Stringent import and cross-border animal movement controls and surveillance are used in protection of FMD free countries. A response effort to eradicate any potential outbreaks include humane destruction of all infected, recovered and FMD-susceptible animals; appropriate disposal of animal carcasses and all animal products; surveillance and tracing of potentially infected or exposed livestock; strict quarantine and controls on movement of livestock, equipment, and vehicles; and, thorough disinfection of premises and all infected material (implements, cars, clothes, etc.).\n\nGlanders Glanders (Farcy) is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of equines caused by the bacterium \"Burkholderia mallei\". It can also be contracted by goats, dogs, and cats. Humans are also susceptible, with a 95% fatality rate in untreated septicemia cases, and thus the organism is considered a potential bioterrorism agent. Glanders is one of the oldest diseases known and was once worldwide, but has been eradicated from most countries by mid-1900s. Now uncommon, outbreaks are reported from the Middle East, Pakistan, India, Mongolia, China, Brazil, and Africa. Glanders is transmitted mainly by contact with infected horses, mules, and donkeys through their respiratory secretions and exudates from skin lesion, or orally by shared water troughs, or by fomites. Some animals die quickly within a few weeks, while others become chronically infected and continue to spread the disease for years before succumbing. The clinical signs in equids is categorized into nasal, pulmonary, and cutaneous forms. Nasal glanders begins clinically with a high fever, then presents with a highly infectious, viscous, yellowish-green, mucopurulent discharge with possible crusting around the nares. Pulmonary glanders usually requires several months to develop, first manifesting through fever, dyspnea, paroxysmal coughing or persistent dry cough accompanied by labored breathing, possible diarrhea and polyuria, with all leading to a progressive loss of condition. Cutaneous glanders develops insidiously over an extended period, beginning with coughing and dyspnea usually associated with periods of exacerbation leading to progressive debilitation, and may also include fever, and enlargement of the lymph nodes. Clinical cases are often a combination of forms, and may be acute or subacute, chronic, or latent, although horses usually develop chronic glanders which is eventually fatal in most animals. There is no vaccine, and treatment of horses with antibiotics may be effective but is only used in endemic areas because treatment does not reliably produce a bacteriologic cure and may lead to subclinical carrier animals which can then infect humans and other animals. Diagnosis of glanders in animals is performed at an appropriate biosafety and containment level laboratory by isolating the organism from blood, sputum, urine, or skin lesions, or by serological testing. Prevention of glanders depends on early detection and the humane euthanasia of positive animals along with strict animal movement controls, effective premise quarantines, the burning and burying of affected animal carcasses, the burning and burying of disposable materials on positive premises, and the thorough cleaning and disinfection of outbreak areas, transportation vehicles, and equipment. \"Glanders in horses is a re-emerging zoonotic disease. Successful eradication and control of glanders can only be achieved by combining highly sensitive and specific testing methods with effective culling strategies. Close cooperation between authorities and owners, as well as the strict compliance to biosafety approaches in animal holdings are essential.\"\n\nRinderpest Rinderpest\n\nTeschen disease Teschen disease\n\nScrewworms New World Screwworms\n"}
{"id": "3380832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3380832", "title": "Gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist", "text": "Gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist\n\nGonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonists (GnRH antagonists) are a class of medications that antagonize the gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRH receptor) and thus the action of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). They are used in the treatment of prostate cancer, endometriosis, uterine fibroids, female infertility in assisted reproduction, and for other indications.\n\nSome GnRH antagonists, such as cetrorelix, are similar in structure to natural GnRH (a hormone made by neurons in the hypothalamus) but that have an antagonistic effect, while other GnRH antagonists, such as elagolix, are non-peptide and small-molecule compounds. GnRH antagonists compete with natural GnRH for binding to GnRH receptors, thus decreasing or blocking GnRH action in the body.\n\nTestosterone promotes growth of many prostate tumors and therefore reducing circulating testosterone to very low (castration) levels is often the treatment goal in the management of men with advanced prostate cancer. GnRH antagonists are used to provide fast suppression of testosterone without the surge in testosterone levels that is seen when treating patients with GnRH agonists. In patients with advanced disease, this surge in testosterone can lead to a flare-up of the tumour, which can precipitate a range of clinical symptoms such as bone pain, urethral obstruction, and spinal cord compression. Drug agencies have issued warnings regarding this phenomenon in the prescribing information for GnRH agonists. As testosterone surge does not occur with GnRH antagonists, there is no need for patients to receive an antiandrogen as flare protection during prostate cancer treatment. GnRH agonists also induce an increase in testosterone levels after each reinjection of the drug – a phenomenon that does not occur with GnRH antagonists.\n\nThe reduction in testosterone levels that occurs during GnRH antagonist therapy subsequently reduces the size of the prostate cancer. This in turn results in a reduction in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in the patient’s blood and so measuring PSA levels is a way to monitor how patients with prostate cancer are responding to treatment. GnRH antagonists have an immediate onset of action leading to a fast and profound suppression of testosterone and are therefore especially valuable in the treatment of patients with prostate cancer, where fast control of disease is needed.\n\nThe GnRH antagonist abarelix was withdrawn from the United States market in 2005 and is now only marketed in Germany for use in patients with symptomatic prostate cancer. Degarelix is a GnRH antagonist that is approved for use in patients with advanced hormone-sensitive prostate cancer throughout Europe and also in the United States.\n\nGnRH antagonists are also used for short periods in the prevention of premature LH surge and endogenous ovulation in patients undergoing ovarian hyperstimulation with FSH in preparation for \"in-vitro\" fertilization (IVF). Typically they are administered in the mid-follicular phase in stimulated cycles after administration of gonadotropins and prior to the administration of hCG – which is given to stimulate ovulation. This protocol is likely beneficial in women expected to be hyper-responders, and probably also those expected to be poor responders to ovarian hyperstimulation. The GnRH antagonists that are currently licensed for use in fertility treatment are cetrorelix and ganirelix.\n\nElagolix is indicated for moderate to severe endometriosis pain.\n\nGnRH antagonists are being investigated in the treatment of women with hormone-sensitive breast cancer and some benign disorders such as uterine fibroids. In men, they are being investigated in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia and also as potential contraceptive agents. GnRH antagonists are also used as puberty blockers in transgender youth and to suppress sex hormone levels in transgender adolescents and adults.\n\nCurrently approved GnRH antagonists include the peptide molecules abarelix, cetrorelix, degarelix, and ganirelix and the small-molecule compound elagolix. GnRH antagonists are administered by subcutaneous injection (cetrorelix, degarelix, ganirelix), by intramuscular injection (abarelix), or by oral administration (elagolix).\n\nNon-peptide and orally-active GnRH antagonists like elagolix that are in development include relugolix and linzagolix.\n\nAs with all hormonal therapies, GnRH antagonists are commonly associated with hormonal side effects such as hot flushes, headache, nausea and weight gain. When used in fertility treatment they can also be associated with abdominal pain and ovarian hyperstimulation. Subcutaneously administered agents are also associated with injection-site reactions and abarelix (neither of these being GnRH agonists, but instead being antagonists) has been linked with immediate-onset systemic allergic reactions.\n\nGnRH antagonists competitively and reversibly bind to GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland, blocking the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the anterior pituitary. In men, the reduction in LH subsequently leads to rapid suppression of testosterone production in the testes; in women it leads to suppression of estradiol and progesterone production from the ovaries. GnRH antagonists are able to abolish gonadal sex hormone production and to suppress sex hormone levels into the castrate range, or by approximately 95%.\n\nUnlike the GnRH agonists, which cause an initial stimulation of the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal axis (HPG axis) that leads to a surge in testosterone or estrogen levels, GnRH antagonists have an immediate onset of action and rapidly reduce sex hormone levels without an initial surge.\n\nGnRH antagonists include peptides such as cetrorelix and non-peptide and small-molecule compounds such as elagolix. Peptide GnRH antagonists are GnRH analogues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51760910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51760910", "title": "Graduate nurse", "text": "Graduate nurse\n\nThe Graduate Nurse (GN) is a nurse who has completed his or her academic studies but not completed the requirements to become a Registered Nurse (RN). Depending on the country, state, province or similar licensing body, the graduate nurse may be granted provisional nursing licensure. A Graduate nurse has not yet passed the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) to become a Registered Nurse (RN).\n\nIn the US, the Graduate nurse can practice nursing under a Registered nurse. To practice as a Graduate nurse, he or she must have been authorized by the examination provider to sit for the licensured examination and have been provided documentation for their eligibility to take the examination. Those who have been recognized and approved by the State board of Nursing may use the \"G.N.\" status as part of their identification. In Canada and Texas, a student who has successfully completed his or her nursing education can obtain a distinct licensure as a Graduate Nurse (GN). This designation remains until the GN successfully passes the RN examinination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34118709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34118709", "title": "Grey Nuns' Hospital", "text": "Grey Nuns' Hospital\n\nThe Grey Nuns' Hospital (also known as Hôpital général des frères Charron) was a hospital in Montreal, Quebec, Canada that operated from 1695 to 1880. It is located south of Place d'Youville and west of Rue Saint-Pierre.\n\nThe name \"Hôpital général des frères Charron\" () refers to a French religious community of the same name. It focused on care of the poor. The hospital was built outside the Fortifications of Montreal in 1695. Management and hospital administration were entrusted to the Grey Nuns in 1747.\n\nThe hospital suffered a major fire in 1765 and was rebuilt again according to the style of French architecture, that is to say, with large walls composed of rough stone called rubble that had been squared and covered in plaster. The architecture, which is very utilitarian, is rudimentary and has little ornamentation. The gable roof prevents the accumulation of snow in winter. The structure, being less massive and simpler to build meant a lower risk of fire. Finally, esses are used to reinforce the structure with stems screwed into the wood frame.\n\nIn 1880, the nuns decided to rent the building in order to maintain administrative offices in their communities.\n\nIn 1971, the Grey Nuns decided to return to their first mother-house. Major renovations of the building were undertaken.\n\nThe site was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13956334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13956334", "title": "Harry Burns (doctor)", "text": "Harry Burns (doctor)\n\nSir Henry Burns (born 1951), known generally as Harry Burns, is the professor of global public health, University of Strathclyde, having been the Chief Medical Officer for Scotland from September 2005 to April 2014. He has become known for his work to address health inequalities. He is a member of the Council of Economic Advisers in Scotland.\n\nHenry Burns was born in Barrhead, East Renfrewshire in 1951 and was educated at St. Aloysius College, an independent school in Glasgow. In 1974 he graduated in medicine from the University of Glasgow.\n\nBurns initially pursued a career in general surgery, and for five years he was a consultant surgeon at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. He took up a managerial role as the Medical Director of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. He completed a master's degree in Public Health in 1990. He worked as deputy director of planning and contracts at Greater Glasgow in 1992, becoming the Director of public health for Greater Glasgow the following year. In 1999 he was awarded a visiting professorship in public health medicine at the University of Glasgow, and he also became a senior research fellow in the \"School of Business and Management\" at the university.\n\nHe took up the post of Chief Medical Officer for Scotland on 5 September 2005. In 2007 his second annual report emphasised the importance of the early years as the basis for health and wellbeing in adulthood. He was co-chair of the Scottish Government's Early Years Taskforce which was set up in 2011. Burns helped Scotland conceptualise health improvement differently, being aware that the small gains that resulted from a range of interventions can add up to produce significant overall improvements.\n\nIn January 2014 it was announced that Burns would step down as Chief Medical Officer in April 2014 to take up the appointment of Professor of global public health at Strathclyde University. He took part in Renfrewshire’s Tackling Poverty Commission.\n\nIn December 2014, it was announced that Burns would join the Scottish Government's Council of Economic Advisers (CEA) to help look at the issue of inequality.\n\nIn September 2016, the Scottish Government announced that he would chair an independent review of targets in Scotland's NHS, with an initial report and recommendations expected in spring 2017.\n\nBurns was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from University of Strathclyde in 2008.\n\nBurns was knighted in the 2011 Birthday Honours in recognition of outstanding achievement and service to society.\n\nHis significant contribution to public life was also recognised by East Renfrewshire Council, who awarded him their highest honour, by making him an honorary freeman.\n\nIn December 2014, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon presented Burns with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the \"Holyrood Magazine\"-launched first Scottish Public Service Awards, recognising his lasting contributions to public service in Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "30515764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30515764", "title": "Health effects of natural phenols and polyphenols", "text": "Health effects of natural phenols and polyphenols\n\nBecause of the large structural diversity and extensive metabolism of dietary polyphenols, their fate in vivo and possible health effects remain undetermined as of the early 21st century. Although polyphenols are speculated to be part of the health-promoting effects of consuming fruits and vegetables, no evidence exists to date that dietary polyphenols actually provide health benefits.\n\nPolyphenols have poor bioavailability, indicating that most of what are consumed are extensively metabolized and excreted. Gallic acid and isoflavones may show absorption of about 5%, with amounts of catechins (flavan-3-ols), flavanones, and quercetin glucosides even less. The least well-absorbed phenols are the proanthocyanidins, galloylated tea catechins, and anthocyanins.\n\nA review published in 2013 found insufficient consensus for the hypothesis that the specific intake of food and drink containing flavonoids may play a meaningful role in reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. The reviewers stated that research to date had been of poor quality and that large and rigorous clinical trials are needed to define health benefits and to reveal adverse events from excessive polyphenol intake. Currently, lack of knowledge about safety suggests that polyphenol levels should not exceed the intake of a normal diet.\n\nPreliminary research on the association of consuming polyphenol foods, such as olive oil, soy, and pomegranate products, with lower risk of cardiovascular diseases has been low in quality, with little evidence of any possible benefit.\n\nAs interpreted by the Linus Pauling Institute and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), dietary flavonoids have little or no direct antioxidant food value following digestion. Unlike controlled test tube conditions where antioxidant effects may result when high concentrations of flavonoids are used, the fate of ingested flavonoids in vivo shows they are poorly conserved (less than 5%), with most of what is absorbed existing as chemically-modified metabolites destined for rapid excretion.\n\n"}
{"id": "3519778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3519778", "title": "History of saffron", "text": "History of saffron\n\nHuman cultivation and use of saffron spans more than 3,500 years and extends across cultures, continents, and civilizations. Saffron, a spice derived from the dried stigmas of the saffron crocus (\"Crocus sativus\"), has through history remained among the world's most costly substances. With its bitter taste, hay-like fragrance, and slight metallic notes, the apocarotenoid-rich saffron has been used as a seasoning, fragrance, dye, and medicine.\n\nThe saffron crocus is a genetically monomorphic clone native to Southwest Asia; it was probably first cultivated in or near Persia. The wild precursor of domesticated saffron crocus was likely \"Crocus cartwrightianus\", which originated in Crete and Greece; \"C. thomasii\" and \"C. pallasii\" are other possible sources. The saffron crocus is now a triploid that is \"self-incompatible\" and male sterile; it undergoes aberrant meiosis and is hence incapable of independent sexual reproduction—all propagation is by vegetative multiplication via manual \"divide-and-set\" of a starter clone or by interspecific hybridisation. If \"C. sativus\" is a mutant form of \"C. cartwrightianus\", then it may have emerged via plant breeding, which would have selected for elongated stigmas, in late Bronze Age Crete.\n\nHumans may have bred \"C. cartwrightianus\" specimens by screening for specimens with abnormally long stigmas. The resulting saffron crocus was documented in a 7th-century BC Assyrian botanical reference compiled under Ashurbanipal, and it has since been traded and used over the course of four millennia and has been used as treatment for some ninety disorders. The \"C. sativus\" clone was slowly propagated throughout much of Eurasia, later reaching parts of North Africa, North America, and Oceania. Global production on a by-mass basis is now dominated by Iran, which accounts for some 90% of the annual harvest.\n\nIt immediately stems from the Latin word \"\" via the 12th-century Old French term \"safran\". The French was borrowed from Arabic زَعْفَرَان (\"za'farān\"), and ultimately from Persian word \"zarparan\" which literally means \"yellow stigmas\".\n\nThe Latin form \"\" is also the source of the Catalan \"safrà\", Italian \"zafferano\", but Portuguese\" açafrão\", and Spanish \"azafrán\" come from the Arabic \"az-zaferán\".\n\nThe Latin term \"crocus\" is certainly a Semitic loanword. It is adapted from the Aramaic form \"kurkema\" via the Arabic term \"kurkum\" and the Greek intermediate κρόκος \"krokos\", which once again signifies \"yellowish\". The Sanskrit \"kunkumam\" might be ultimately the origin, or in some way related to the Semitic term.\n\n\"Crocus cartwrightianus\" is a species of flowering plant in the family Iridaceae, native to Greece and Crete. \"C. cartwrightianus\" is the presumed wild progenitor of the domesticated triploid \"Crocus sativus\" – the saffron crocus. Saffron is the triploid form of a species found in Eastern Greece, \"Crocus cartwrightianus\"; it probably appeared first in Crete. An origin in Western or Central Asia, although often suspected, has been disproved by botanical research.\n\nSaffron played a significant role in the Greco-Roman pre-classical period bracketed by the 8th century BC and the 3rd century AD. The first known image of saffron in pre-Greek culture is much older and stems from the Bronze Age. A saffron harvest is shown in the Knossos palace frescoes of Minoan Crete, which depict the flowers being picked by young girls and monkeys. One of these fresco sites is located in the \"Xeste 3\" building at Akrotiri, on the Aegean island of Santorini—the ancient Greeks knew it as \"Thera\". These frescoes likely date from the 16th or 17th century BC but may have been produced anywhere between 3000 and 1100 BC. They portray a Minoan goddess supervising the plucking of flowers and the gleaning of stigmas for use in the manufacture of what is possibly a therapeutic drug. A fresco from the same site also depicts a woman using saffron to treat her bleeding foot. These \"Theran\" frescoes are the first botanically accurate visual representations of saffron's use as an herbal remedy. This saffron-growing Minoan settlement was ultimately destroyed by a powerful earthquake and subsequent volcanic eruption sometime between 1645 and 1500 BC. The volcanic ash from the destruction entombed and helped preserve these key herbal frescoes.\n\nAncient Greek legends tell of brazen sailors embarking on long and perilous voyages to the remote land of Cilicia, where they traveled to procure what they believed was the world's most valuable saffron. The best-known Hellenic saffron legend is that of Crocus and Smilax: The handsome youth Crocus sets out in pursuit of the nymph Smilax in the woods near Athens; in a brief dallying interlude of idyllic love, Smilax is flattered by his amorous advances, but all too soon tires of his attentions. He continues his pursuit; she resists. She bewitches Crocus: he is transformed—into a saffron crocus. Its radiant orange stigmas were held as a relict glow of an undying and unrequited passion. The tragedy and the spice would be recalled later:\n\nFor the ancient Mediterraneans, saffron gathered around the Cilician coastal town of Soli was of top value, particularly for use in perfumes and ointments. Herodotus and Pliny the Elder, however, rated rival Assyrian and Babylonian saffron from the Fertile Crescent as best—to treat gastrointestinal or renal upsets. Greek saffron from the Corycian Cave of Mount Parnassus was also of note: the color offered by the Corycian crocus is used as a benchmark in the Argonautica of Apollonius Rhodius and similarly with its fragrance in the epigrams of Martial.\n\nCleopatra of late Ptolemaic Egypt used a quarter-cup of saffron in her warm baths, as she prized its colouring and cosmetic properties. She used it before encounters with men, trusting that saffron would render lovemaking yet more pleasurable. Egyptian healers used saffron as a treatment for all varieties of gastrointestinal ailments: when stomach pains progressed to internal hemorrhaging, an Egyptian treatment consisted of saffron crocus seeds mixed and crushed together with \"aager\"-tree remnants, ox fat, coriander, and myrrh. This ointment or poultice was applied to the body. The physicians expected it to \"[expel] blood through the mouth or rectum which resembles hog's blood when it is cooked\". Urinary tract conditions were also treated with an oil-based emulsion of premature saffron flowers mixed with roasted beans; this was used topically on men. Women ingested a more complex preparation.\n\nIn Greco-Roman times saffron was widely traded across the Mediterranean by the Phoenicians. Their customers ranged from the perfumers of Rosetta, in Egypt, to physicians in Gaza to townsfolk in Rhodes, who wore pouches of saffron in order to mask the presence of malodorous fellow citizens during outings to the theatre. For the Greeks, saffron was widely associated with professional courtesans and retainers known as the \"hetaerae\". Large dye works operating in Sidon and Tyre used saffron baths as a substitute; there, royal robes were \"triple\"-dipped in deep purple dyes; for the robes of royal pretenders and commoners, the last two dips were replaced with a saffron dip, which gave a less intense purple hue.\n\nThe ancient Greeks and Romans prized saffron as a perfume or deodoriser and scattered it about their public spaces: royal halls, courts, and amphitheatres alike. When Nero entered Rome they spread saffron along the streets; wealthy Romans partook of daily saffron baths. They used it as mascara, stirred saffron threads into their wines, cast it aloft in their halls and streets as a potpourri, and offered it to their deities. Roman colonists took saffron with them when they settled in southern Roman Gaul, where it was extensively cultivated until the AD 271 barbarian invasion of Italy. Competing theories state that saffron only returned to France with 8th-century Moors or with the Avignon Papacy in the 14th century.\n\nSaffron-based pigments have been found in the prehistoric paints used to illustrate beasts in 50,000-year-old cave art found in modern-day Iraq, which was even then northwest of the Persian Empire. The Sumerians used saffron as an ingredient in their remedies and magical potions. Sumerians did not cultivate saffron. They gathered their stores from wild flowers, believing that divine intervention alone enables saffron's medicinal properties. Such evidence suggests that saffron was an article of long-distance trade before Crete's Minoan palace culture reached a peak in the 2nd millennium BC. Saffron was also honoured as a sweet-smelling spice over three millennia ago in the Hebrew Tanakh:\n\nIn ancient Persia, saffron (\"Crocus sativus\" 'Hausknechtii') was cultivated at Derbena and Isfahan in the 10th century BC. There, Persian saffron threads have been found interwoven into ancient Persian royal carpets and funeral shrouds. Saffron was used by ancient Persian worshippers as a ritual offering to their deities, and as a brilliant yellow dye, perfume, and a medicine. Thus, saffron threads would be scattered across beds and mixed into hot teas as a curative for bouts of melancholy. Indeed, Persian saffron threads, used to spice foods and teas, were widely suspected by foreigners of being a drugging agent and an aphrodisiac. These fears grew to forewarn travelers to abstain from eating saffron-laced Persian cuisine. In addition, Persian saffron was dissolved in water with sandalwood to use as a body wash after heavy work and perspiration under the hot Persian sun. Later, Persian saffron was heavily used by Alexander the Great and his forces during their Asian campaigns. They mixed saffron into teas and dined on saffron rice. Alexander personally used saffron sprinkled in warm bath water, taking after Cyrus the Great. Much like Cyrus, he believed it would heal his many wounds, and his faith in saffron grew with each treatment. He even recommended saffron baths for the ordinary men under him. The Greek soldiers, taken with saffron's perceived curative properties, continued the practice after they returned to Macedonia.\n\nVarious conflicting accounts exist that describe saffron's first arrival in South and East Asia. The first of these rely on historical accounts gleaned from Persian records. These suggest to many experts that saffron, among other spices, was first spread to India via Persian rulers' efforts to stock their newly built gardens and parks. They accomplished this by transplanting the desired cultivars across the Persian empire. Phoenicians then began in the 6th century BC to market the new Kashmiri saffron by utilising their extensive trade routes. Once sold, Kashmiri saffron was used in the treatment of melancholy and as a fabric dye.\n\nOn the other hand, traditional Kashmiri legend states that saffron first arrived in the 11th or 12th century AD, when two foreign and itinerant Sufi ascetics, Khwaja Masood Wali and Hazrat Sheikh Shariffudin, wandered into Kashmir. The foreigners, having fallen sick, beseeched a cure for illness from a local tribal chieftain. When the chieftain obliged, the two holy men reputedly gave them a saffron crocus bulb as payment and thanks. To this day, grateful prayers are offered to the two saints during the saffron harvesting season in late autumn. The saints, indeed, have a golden-domed shrine and tomb dedicated to them in the saffron-trading village of Pampore, India. However, the Kashmiri poet and scholar Mohammed Yusuf Teng disputes this. He states that Kashmiris had cultivated saffron for more than two millennia. According to Hindu religion Lord Krishna used to put Tilak (a mark on forehead) of Saffron daily. \n\nAncient Chinese Buddhist accounts from the \"mula-sarvastivadin\" monastic order (or \"vinaya\") present yet another account of saffron's arrival in India. According to legend, an \"arhat\" Indian Buddhist missionary by the name of Madhyântika (or Majjhantika) was sent to Kashmir in the 5th century BC. Upon his arrival he seemingly sowed the first Kashmiri saffron crop. From there, saffron use spread throughout the Indian subcontinent. In addition to use in foods, saffron stigmas were also soaked in water to yield a golden-yellow solution that was used as a fabric dye.\n\nSome historians believe that saffron first came to China with Mongol invaders by way of Persia. Saffron is mentioned in the ancient Chinese medical text \"Shennong Ben Cao Jing\", believed to be from the 3rd century AD (but attributed to mythological emperor Shennong). Yet the Chinese were referring to saffron as having a Kashmiri provenance. The Chinese medical expert Wan Zhen wrote that \"[t]he habitat of saffron is in Kashmir, where people grow it principally to offer it to the Buddha\". Wan reflected on how saffron was used in his time: \"The [saffron crocus] flower withers after a few days, and then the saffron is obtained. It is valued for its uniform yellow colour. It can be used to aromatise wine.\"\n\nIn modern times saffron cultivation has spread to Afghanistan due to the efforts of the European Union and the United Kingdom. Together they promote saffron cultivation among impoverished and cash-strapped Afghan farmers as an ideal alternative to lucrative—and illicit—opium production.\n\nSaffron cultivation in Europe declined steeply following the fall of the Roman Empire. For several centuries thereafter, saffron cultivation was rare or non-existent throughout Europe. This was reversed when Moorish civilisation spread from North Africa to settle the Iberian peninsula as well as parts of France and southern Italy. One theory states that Moors reintroduced saffron corms to the region around Poitiers after they lost the Battle of Tours to Charles Martel in AD 732. Two centuries after their conquest of Spain, Moors planted saffron throughout the southern provinces of Andalucia, Castile, La Mancha, and Valencia.\n\nIn France, saffron cultivation probably started during the 13th century. Crocus sativus was likely introduced from Spain and from the Middle-East by pilgrims, merchants, and Knights. Its first uses are documented in the south-west of the Kingdom around 1250. It is indeed unlikely that Kings and Religious didn't try growing Crocus sativus by that time: Saffron was rare, expensive, and demanded, and Crocus sativus could be farmed under France's latitudes. By the 14th century, the wide use of saffron for spicing and coloring food is documented in recipe books such as the \"Viandier de Taillevent\", written by the King's cook. And by the 15th century, local saffron farming is attested with taxes levied by the religious power, which reveal how important saffron crops must have been. For instance, in 1478, the saffron tax levied by the Bishop of Albi reached 1/12th of saffron production.\n\nSaffron demand \"skyrocketed\" when the Black Death of 1347–1350 struck Europe. It was coveted by plague victims for medicinal purposes, and yet many of the farmers capable of growing it had died off. Large quantities of non-European saffron were therefore imported. The finest saffron threads from Muslim lands were unavailable to Europeans because of hostilities stoked by the Crusades, so Rhodes and other places were key suppliers to central and northern Europe. Saffron was one of the contested points of hostility that flared between the declining landed gentry and upstart and increasingly wealthy merchants. The fourteen-week-long \"Saffron War\" was ignited when one shipment of saffron was hijacked and stolen by nobles. The load, which was en route to the town of Basel, would at today's market prices be valued at more than 500,000. That shipment \"was\" eventually returned, but the wider 13th–century trade was subject to mass piracy. Thieves plying Mediterranean waters would often ignore gold stores and instead steal Venetian- and Genoan-marketed saffron bound for Europe. Wary of such unpleasantness, Basel planted its own corms. Several years of large and lucrative saffron harvests made Basel extremely prosperous compared to other European towns. Citizens sought to protect their status by outlawing the transport of corms out of the town; guards were posted to prevent thieves from picking flowers or digging up corms. Yet ten years later the saffron harvest had waned. Basel abandoned the crop.\n\nThe pivot of central European saffron trade moved to Nuremberg. The merchants of Venice continued their rule of the Mediterranean sea trade, trafficking varieties from Sicily, France and Spain, Austria, Crete and Greece, and the Ottoman Empire. Adulterated goods also made the rounds: those soaked in honey, mixed with marigold petals, or kept in damp cellars—all to add quick and cheap bulk. Irritated Nuremberg authorities passed the \"Safranschou\" code to de-louse the saffron trade. Adulterators were thus fined, imprisoned, and executed—by immolation. England was next to have its turn as a major producer. One theory has it that the crop spread to the coastal regions of eastern England in the 14th century AD during the reign of Edward III. In subsequent years saffron was fleetingly cultivated throughout England. Norfolk, Suffolk, and south Cambridgeshire were especially affected with corms. Rowland Parker provides an account of its cultivation in the village of Foxton during the 16th and 17th centuries, \"usually by people holding a small amount of land\"; an acre planted in saffron could yield a crop worth a kingly 6, making it \"a very profitable crop, provided that plenty of unpaid labor was available; unpaid labor was one of the basic features of farming then and for another two centuries.\"\n\nIn France, saffron production became very important in the 17th and 18th centuries, reaching a few tons. By then, saffron farming had spread throughout the entire Kingdom. Saffron was especially grown in Albigeois, Angoumois, Gascony, Gâtinais, Normandy, Périgord, Poitou, Provence, and Quercy. Its mysterious decline started during the 18th century, possibly due to pandemic fungal diseases destroying bulbs and crops, to particularly cold winters, and to competing market from the Mediterranean countries.\n\nIn England, cultivation \"persisted\" only in the light, well-drained, and chalk-based soils of the north Essex countryside. The Essex town of Saffron Walden got its name as a saffron growing and trading centre; its name was originally Cheppinge Walden, and the culinary name change was effected to punctuate the importance of the crop to the townsfolk; the town's arms still feature blooms from the eponymous crocus. Yet as England emerged from the Middle Ages, rising puritanical sentiments and new conquests abroad endangered English saffron's use and cultivation. Puritanical partisans favoured increasingly austere, unadorned, and unspiced foods. Saffron was also a labor-intensive crop, which became an increasing disadvantage as wages and time opportunity costs rose. And finally, an influx of more exotic spices from the far East due to the resurgent spice trade meant that the English, as well as other Europeans, had many more—and cheaper—seasonings to dally over.\n\nThis trend was documented by the Dean of Manchester, Reverend William Herbert. He collected samples and compiled information on many aspects of the saffron crocus. He was concerned about the steady decline in saffron cultivation over the course of the 17th century and the dawn of the Industrial Revolution; the introduction in Europe of easily grown maize and potatoes, which steadily took over lands formerly flush with corms, did not help. In addition, the elite who traditionally comprised the bulk of the saffron market were now growing increasingly interested in such intriguing new arrivals as chocolate, coffee, tea, and vanilla. Only in the south of France or in Italy and Spain, where the saffron harvest was culturally primal, did significant cultivation prevail.\n\nSaffron made its way to the New World when thousands of Alsatian, German, and Swiss Anabaptists, Dunkards, and others fled religious persecution in Europe. They settled mainly in eastern Pennsylvania, in the Susquehanna River valley. These settlers, who became known as the Pennsylvania Dutch, were by 1730 widely cultivating saffron after corms were first brought to America—in a trunk. It was owned by German adherents of a Protestant church known as the Schwenkfelder Church. Schwenkfelders, as members were known, were great lovers of saffron, and had grown it back in Germany. Pennsylvania Dutch saffron was soon being successfully marketed to Spanish colonists in the Caribbean, while healthy demand elsewhere ensured that its listed price on the Philadelphia commodities exchange was set equal to that of gold.\n\nHowever the War of 1812 destroyed many of the merchantmen that ferried American saffron abroad. Pennsylvanian saffron growers were afterwards left with surplus inventory, and trade with the Caribbean markets never recovered. Nevertheless, Pennsylvania Dutch growers developed many uses for the now abundant saffron in their own home cooking—cakes, noodles, and chicken or trout dishes. Saffron cultivation survived into modern times principally in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.\n\n\nBooks\nJournal articles\nMiscellaneous\n"}
{"id": "54039886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54039886", "title": "James E. Banta", "text": "James E. Banta\n\nJames E. Banta is an American health scientist and the first to cultivate dengue virus in tissue culture and to demonstrate cytopathogenic effect, was the Dean, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine from Tulane University subsequently after being Elected as Fellow at the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "34205798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34205798", "title": "List of cricketers who were killed during military service", "text": "List of cricketers who were killed during military service\n\nThis is a list of cricketers who were killed during military service. The cricketers are listed by war and divided into those who appeared in Test cricket and those only played first-class cricket.\n\nThe conflicts featured on this list are, in chronological order, the Napoleonic Wars, First Boer War, Mahdist War, Second Boer War, World War I, Easter Rising, Irish War of Independence, World War II and the South African Border War. Approximately 210 first-class cricketers are known to have served in the First World War.\n\n"}
{"id": "26954932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26954932", "title": "Millennium Cohort Study (United States)", "text": "Millennium Cohort Study (United States)\n\nThe Millennium Cohort Study is an ongoing longitudinal cohort study headquartered at the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego, California and designed to evaluate any long-term health effects of military service, including deployments. It is the largest population-based prospective health project in US military history, currently collecting data on over 200,000 enrolled participants. Investigators that conduct the Millennium Cohort Study include uniformed and non-uniformed scientists from the Army, Navy, Air Force, Department of Veterans Affairs and academic institutions.\n\nAfter the 1991 Gulf War, the United States Department of Defense recognized the need to collect prospective exposure and health information that may be associated with the long-term health of service members\n. The Millennium Cohort Study was designed to address that need. Pilot studies were conducted in 2000; by mid-2001, the Millennium Cohort Study's first enrollment period was launched, collecting baseline data from over 77,000 people.\n\nThe most methodologically rigorous epidemiological study on American military personnel deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan is funded by the US Department of Defense\n, and supported by military, United States Department of Veterans Affairs, and civilian researchers. Over 200,000 military personnel are members of the cohort. The Millennium Cohort Study began with a random sample of US Military members including active duty, Reserve, and National Guard members from all services. Surveys are sent to this representative sample of US military personnel every three years through email and the United States Postal Service, requesting that they submit their data online or via the mail service. Approximately 25% of Millennium Cohort participants have left military service and the study will continue to follow all participants through their Active duty, Reserve, National Guard careers and civilian endeavors.\n\nProspective data analyses are underway to assess health outcomes including Suicide\n, Posttraumatic stress disorder, depression, hypertension, respiratory symptoms and illness, immune responses, chronic multi-symptom illness, CHD and CVD, and modifiable health behaviors such as smoking, alcohol use, sleep, and physical activity that may be associated with deployment in support of the current wars. Currently, more than 60% of Millennium Cohort participants have deployed in support of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2011 the Millennium Cohort Study was expanded to include 10,000 spouses of Millennium Cohort members.The sub study, The Millennium Cohort Family Study's goal is to gain a more complete understanding of the military experience and its resultant impact on the health and well-being of service members and their families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30247371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30247371", "title": "Ministry of Food and Drug Safety", "text": "Ministry of Food and Drug Safety\n\nThe Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (MFDS, ), formerly known as the Korea Food & Drug Administration (KFDA, ), is a South Korea government agency responsible for promoting the public health by ensuring the safety and efficiency of foods, pharmaceuticals, medical devices and cosmetics as well as supporting the development of the food and pharmaceutical industries. The main goal is to offer people safe foods and drugs.\n\nThe headquarters are located in the Osong Health Technology Administration Complex in Cheongwon County, North Chungcheong Province.\n\nIn April 1996, Korea Food and Drug Safety and its six regional offices were established. It was raised to the status of administration (Korea Food & Drug Administration), in 1998. In 2004, the organization was restructured with the creation of Medical Devices Management Division and Bioproduct Technical Support Division. In March 2013, the organization was again restructured and upgraded to a ministry, receiving its name change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40463364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40463364", "title": "Minnie Cumnock Blodgett", "text": "Minnie Cumnock Blodgett\n\nMinnie Cumnock Blodgett (1862–1931) graduated from Vassar College in 1884, later becoming a trustee (1917–1931). She is the mother of Katharine Blodgett Hadley (VC '20), who was also a Vassar trustee (1942–1954), and was chairman of the Board (1945–1952).\n\nHer husband, John W. Blodgett, built their estate, which they named Brookby, where they made their Grand Rapids home.\n\nAfter Ellen Swallow Richards' death in 1911, Julia Lathrop (1858–1932), another of Vassar's most distinguished alumnae, continued to promote the development of an interdisciplinary program in euthenics at the college. Lathrop soon teamed with alumna Minnie Cumnock Blodgett, who with her husband, John Wood Blodgett, offered financial support to create a program of euthenics at Vassar College. Curriculum planning, suggested by Vassar President Henry Noble MacCracken in 1922, began in earnest by 1923.\n\nIn 1925, through a gift of $550,000.00 from Mrs. Blodgett, the Institute of Euthenics was founded at Vassar. Its aim was \"to supply scientific knowledge of the complex problems of adjustment between individuals and the environment, emphasizing home and family.\" Vassar historian Colton Johnson noted \"The Blodgetts' gift was the largest gift given to the College after Matthew Vassar donated $408,000 in 1861 to get the College started ... Their intention was to bring into the curriculum of the College a course of study specifically designed around the ideas of Ellen Swallow Richards.\"\n\nMrs. John Wood Blodgett died suddenly of heart disease on October 13, 1931 in her suite in The St. Regis Hotel, New York, NY. She was there to attend meetings for two health organizations and spend some time visiting her daughter and son-in-law. According to her obituary in the \"New York Times\", she was a director of the Child Study Association, the National Organization for Public Health Nursing, and was a member of the National Committee on Mental Hygiene. She was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Alexander G. Cunnock [sic] of Lowell, Mass. She was also president of the D.A. Blodgett Home for Children, and sat on the board of trustees at Vassar College.\n\nDescendants include:\n\nAccording to the \"Finding aid for Blodgett Family papers, 1872-1953\" abstract at Bentley Historical Library within the University of Michigan Digital Library, the archive contains :\n"}
{"id": "51173373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51173373", "title": "National Farm Safety &amp; Health Week", "text": "National Farm Safety &amp; Health Week\n\nNational Farm Safety & Health Week is a week of commemoration, recognized annually on the third week of September in the United States.\n\nIn 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the first proclamation for farm safety due to the high injury rate in agriculture. Agriculture is one of the most hazardous industries with a death rate of 23.2 deaths per 100,000 workers annually according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics in 2013. However, many injuries are preventable through education. Serious injuries and death can be prevented by cautiously approaching field adjustments or repairs, taking precautions to avoid slips and falls, making smart decisions while assigning tasks to youth, using and maintaining the slow moving vehicle emblem correctly, and retrofitting tractors with rollover structures.\n\nIn September 2015, President Obama gave an official proclamation to accentuate the importance of agriculture for our society and economy as well as affirm farm safety and health programs \n\"America's farmers and ranchers have played a critical role in shaping our progress and forging a better future for coming generations. Through centuries of hard work, they have supplied our Nation with products and services essential to the economic and physical well-being of our society.\n\"Across our country, those who work on farms bolster our economy and nourish our people by providing what we need at a most human level, helping to uphold America's founding creed: Out of many, we are one. This week, let us recognize the steadfast dedication and commitment of agricultural producers and their families, and let us reaffirm our resolve to promote their health and safety.\"\n\nOver the years, the development and dissemination of National Farm Safety & Health Week materials shifted from the National Safety Council to National Education Center for Ag Safety (NECAS). NECAS is the agricultural partner for the National Safety Council and has been serving the agricultural family and business community since 1997. Each year they provide farmers with programs and materials to promote farmer safety and health.\n\nPresident Donald Trump proclaimed \"National Farm Safety & Health Week\" on September 15, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "25158991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25158991", "title": "National Prion Clinic (UK)", "text": "National Prion Clinic (UK)\n\nPrion diseases comprise Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (CJD), Gerstmann–Sträussler–Scheinker syndrome, fatal familial insomnia and related disorders. A specialist prion disease clinic was established by Professor John Collinge at St Mary's Hospital, London, in 1997. This was designated the NHS National Prion Clinic (NPC) in March 2001 by the UK Department of Health. In August 2004, following the relocation of the Medical Research Council (MRC) Prion Unit from Imperial College to University College London (UCL), the NPC relocated to the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery at Queen Square, part of the University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust. The NPC is closely integrated with the MRC Prion Unit, a relationship of fundamental importance to the missions of both organisations. The NPC receives UK-wide and international referrals of all forms of suspected CJD or other prion diseases. It is internationally unique and has developed considerable experience in the clinical management of prion disease.\n\nIn addition to providing a national NHS centre of expertise for the management of all forms of CJD and other prion diseases, the clinic was established to facilitate research in both diagnostics and therapeutics including the organisation of clinical trials. The Health Services Director at the NHS Executive wrote to all UK hospitals to inform them of the clinic, and encourage referral to it. The clinic liaises closely with the National CJD Surveillance Unit in Edinburgh, Scotland (NCJDSU) to ensure that both centres are aware of all UK prion disease patients.\n\nAside from patients with Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease and other prion diseases, referrals are welcome of healthy but at-risk individuals from families with inherited prion disease. With some of these large pedigrees a clinical relationship has been fostered for around two decades since mutations in the prion protein gene and their use in diagnosis and genetic counseling were first reported from 1989. Through collaboration with the UK Health Protection Agency referrals are received from individuals at risk of variant Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease through blood transfusion.\n\nIn 2010 the clinic staff comprised consultant neurologists Professor John Collinge and Drs Simon Mead and Peter Rudge and consultant neuro-radiologist Harpreet Hyare. Permanent NHS staff include Michele Gorham, a consultant nurse; and a clinical counsellor; with part-time input from a senior clinical psychologist.\n\n"}
{"id": "8264426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8264426", "title": "Normocapnia", "text": "Normocapnia\n\nNormocapnia or normocarbia is a state of normal arterial carbon dioxide pressure, usually about 40 mmHg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21550804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550804", "title": "Osteopathic medicine in Canada", "text": "Osteopathic medicine in Canada\n\nOsteopathic medicine in Canada is similar to conventional medicine in Canada, with the addition of osteopathic manipulation to diagnose and treat patients. Osteopathic physicians hold equal practice rights to non-osteopathic physicians (MDs) in Canada. North American osteopathic medicine requires an osteopathic physician to be trained and receive the Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree granted by a College of Osteopathic Medicine accredited by the American Osteopathic Association.\n\nThe Canadian Osteopathic Association (COA) represents osteopathic physicians registered for medical practice across Canada, and the Canadian Osteopathic Medical Student Association (COMSA) is the affiliated student organization. In Canada, the titles \"osteopath\" and \"osteopathic physician\" are protected in some provinces by the medical regulatory college for physicians and surgeons. As of 2011, there were approximately 20 U.S.-trained osteopathic physicians, all of which held a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, practicing in all of Canada. As of 2014, no training programs have been established for osteopathic physicians in Canada. Currently, there are no DO programs outside the United States. DO programs are accredited by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association. The authority for licensure of osteopathic physicians lies with the provincial Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons.\n\nThis is a summary of the licensing requirements of osteopathic physicians in Canada:\nThe Canadian Osteopathic Association started the Canadian Osteopathic Medical Student Association in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292287", "title": "Plague pit", "text": "Plague pit\n\nA plague pit is the informal term used to refer to mass graves in which victims of the Black Death were buried. The term is most often used to describe pits located in Great Britain, but can be applied to any place where bubonic plague victims were buried.\n\nThe plague which swept across China, Middle East, and Europe in the 14th century is estimated to have killed between one-third and two-thirds of Europe's population. Disposal of the bodies of those who died presented huge problems for the authorities, and eventually the normal patterns of burial and funerary observance broke down.\n\nPlague pits were used especially often during major plague outbreaks, such as the London epidemic of 1665. During these times, graveyards rapidly filled, and such graves became available only to wealthy people. Parishes became strained; one example, the records of St Bride's Church on Fleet Street during the London 1665 plague, shows typical methods employed by the parishes.\n\nIn 1665, the total number of deaths in the parish rose to five and a half times their normal number, with 2,111 deaths overall and 1,427 attributed to plague.\n\nSome scientists have put forward the idea that the Black Death was not caused by \"Yersinia pestis\" as some have thought, and some evidence of this has been found in plague pits, where the pathogens of other diseases, such as anthrax, have been discovered.\n\nHowever the screening of over 100 skeletal remains from Black Death victims buried in London's East Smithfield plague pit points to \"Yersinia pestis\" as the cause.\n\n"}
{"id": "41907664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41907664", "title": "Postcoital bleeding", "text": "Postcoital bleeding\n\nPostcoital bleeding is bleeding from the vagina in women after sexual intercourse and may or may not be associated with pain. The bleeding can be from the uterus, cervix, vagina and other tissue or organs located near the vagina. Poistcoital bleeding can be one of the first indications of cervical cancer. There are other reasons why a woman may bleed after intercourse. Some women will bleed after intercourse for the first time but others will not. The hymen may bleed if it is stretched since it is thin tissue. Other activities may have an effect on the vagina such as sports and tampon use. Postcoital bleeding may stop without treatment. In some instances, postcoital bleeding may resemble menstrual irregularities. Postcoital bleeding may occur throughout pregnancy. The presence of cervical polyps may result in postcoital bleeding during pregnancy because the tissue of the polyps is more easily damaged. Postcoital bleeding can be due to trauma after consensual and non-consensual sexual intercourse.\n\nA diagnosis to determine the cause will include obtaining a medical history and assessing the symptoms. Treatment is not always necessary.\n\nVaginal bleeding after sex is a symptom that can indicate:\nBleeding from hemorrhoids and vulvar lesions can be mistaken for postcoital bleeding. Post coital bleeding can occur with discharge, itching, or irritation. This may be due to \"Trichomonas\" or \"Candida\". A lack of estrogen can make vaginal tissue thinner and more susceptible to bleeding. Some have proposed that birth control pills may cause postcoital bleeding.\n\nRisk factors for developing postcoital bleeding are: low estrogen levels, rape and 'rough sex'.\n\nTests and detailed examination are used to determine the cause of the bleeding:\n\nA referral may be made to a specialist. Imaging may not be necessary. Cryotherapy has been used but is not recommended.\n\nPostcoital bleeding rarely is associated with gynecological cancer in young women and its incidence is projected to drop due to the widespread immunizations against HPV. Postcoital bleeding has been most studied in women in the US. In a large Taiwanese study, the overall incidence of postcoital bleeding was found to be 39-59 per 100,000 women. Those with postcoital bleeding had a higher risk of cervical dysplasia and cervical cancer. Benign causes of postcoital bleeding were associated with cervical erosion, ectropion, vaginitis and vulvovaginitis. Other associations were noted such as the presence of leukoplakia of the cervix, an intrauterine contraceptive device, cervical polyps, cervicitis, menopause, dyspareunia, and vulvodynia. In Scotland approximately 1 in 600 women aged 20-24 experience unexplained bleeding. A study of African women found an that trauma from consensual sexual intercourse was a cause of postcoital bleeding in young women.\n\nIn Islamic culture, postcoital bleeding may be desired to \"satisfy cultural and/or religious 'needs'\". It is controversial: \n\n"}
{"id": "30998465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30998465", "title": "Public Health Research Institute", "text": "Public Health Research Institute\n\nThe Public Health Research Institute (PHRI) was established in 1942 as an independent not-for-profit research organization affiliated with the New York City Department of Health. Dr. Ralph Muckenfuss, director of the Bureau of Laboratories of the Department of Health, was designated as the first director of the Institute. The mission of the Institute was to conduct research in areas related to the public health problems of New York City. The Institute had three divisions—Infectious Disease, Applied Immunology, and Nutrition and Physiology (which later became the Division of Biochemistry). The institute was originally housed in simple quarters at 16th Street and the East River. As it grew in size the Institute eventually moved to a new building at 26th Street and First Avenue, across the street from the original Carnegie Laboratory of New York University. The Institute maintained close connections with NYU with most of the staff holding faculty appointments at the university.\n\nPHRI was unique in being the only basic medical research organization in the nation that received substantial municipal support. Originally the City contributed $100,000 per year. Over time this increased to $350,000 per year with New York State contributing the same amount. This arrangement continued until the financial crisis of 1977 forced both the city and the state to end their funding for the institute. The Institute survived this loss of funding and continued to operate with funding from the National Institutes of Health and other research funders.\n\nIn 2002, PHRI became associated with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey and moved to the International Center for Public Health in Newark, New Jersey, a building which it shares with the UMDNJ Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics and the National Tuberculosis Center. PHRI operated independently until 2006 when it merged with UMDNJ and was established as a research center of the University and New Jersey Medical School. PHRI researchers now hold faculty positions in the departments of medicine, \nmicrobiology, biochemistry and molecular genetics of New Jersey Medical School. In 2013, UMDNJ and Rutgers merged to form Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "57976514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57976514", "title": "Resignation syndrome", "text": "Resignation syndrome\n\nResignation syndrome (in Swedish \"Uppgivenhetssyndrom\") is a dissociative syndrome that induces a catatonic state. This disorder mainly affects young people who have suffered psychological trauma. Depicted as a culture-bound syndrome, it has chiefly been observed in Sweden among children of asylum seekers from former Soviet and Yugoslav countries. It has also recently been observed in refugee children on Nauru, an Australian immigration detention center.\n"}
{"id": "14556275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14556275", "title": "Sanjoy Ghose", "text": "Sanjoy Ghose\n\nSanjoy Ghose () (7 December 1959 – 4 July 1997) was an Indian rural development activist known for his pioneering contributions to community health and development media. He is believed to have been killed by United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA) militants in the river island of Majuli on the Brahmaputra river around 4 July 1997.\n\nBorn in Nagpur, Ghose spent his formative years and his adolescence in Mumbai, Maharashtra. He belonged to a well known Bengali family.\nBhaskar Ghose, erstwhile Director General of Doordarshan, the Indian public television network, is his uncle. His aunts are Ruma Pal a former Supreme Court judge, Arundhati Ghose, former diplomat and India's permanent representative to the United Nations during the 1990s, and the journalist Usha Rai. His mother, Vijaya Ghose, is the editor of the Limca Book of records\nHe was educated at the Cathedral and John Connon School.\nHe was the president of his school wing of the Interact club: which is the Rotary International sponsored service club for young people aged 12 to 18.His experiences of social work, as a school boy, through the Interact club, changed his life priorities, and set the course for his life.\n\nHis father recalls, \"As a school going boy he spent two nights in a Bombay (presently Mumbai) slum in torrential rain just to get a feel of the real problems that plague slums.\"\n\nAfter school, he was educated at a liberal arts college, Elphinstone College located in Mumbai. Apart from graduating in rural development and law with college and university honours, he also edited the college magazine, ran the English literature club, and won University of Mumbai competitions for quizzing and debating. He was also active in the National Service Scheme – taking his fellow students to remote tribal villages in the hilly tracts abutting the Western Ghats in Thane district- to experience first hand the poverty and exploitation of the tribal communities.\n\nIn 1980, he chose to join the then unknown Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA) in its very first batch. He had confirmed admissions to all the three then existing IIMs, ( Indian Institute of Management ) – Ahmedabad, Bangalore and Calcutta. Joining the prestigious IIM opened the way to very well paying corporate careers. He chose the then unknown IRMA over the known IIMs, in keeping with his personal commitment to work for the poorest of the poor.\n\nDr.Srikanth Sambrani, the first director of IRMA, remembered the selection interview, in an Indian Express article, dated 12 August 1997, thus –\n\"I first met him in 1980, when conducting admissions interviews for the Institute of Rural Management at Anand. We were highly impressed by his paper qualifications. He walked into our small room, all 5 ft 5 in of him held like the fearless bantam he undoubtedly was. But since he had applied to IIM Ahmedabad also, we thought we would lose him. We spent an hour discussing the relative merits of IIMA and IRMA. When he turned down IIMA, it was a coup for us.\"\n\nAfter his post graduation with very good grades from IRMA, in 1982, he chose to work in a small rural development trust, Tribhuvandas Foundation, in Anand, Kheda district, over much more visible and better paying jobs with Government sponsored milk cooperative federations. In Tribhuvandas Foundation, he catalysed its growth from a small family run trust, to working in hundred odd villages, hiring professional rural medical doctors, and extension staff.\n\nAfter two years with Tribhuvandas foundation, he won the INLAKs foundation scholarship for a MSc degree in economics from St Anne's College, Oxford in 1984. After Oxford, he decided to return to rural India. He set up the URMUL Rural Health and Development Trust — in the desert district of Bikaner in Rajasthan.(1986). While working with URMUL, he won the Hubert Humphrey fellowship — and spent a year with the prestigious Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in the year 1988–89. Working with the sick of the poorest of the poor, told on his personal health. He contracted tuberculosis, while collecting sputum for testing, from potential TB patients. After establishing URMUL Rural Health and Development Trust as a mainstream NGO in Rajasthan, he handed over the organisation to a successor, and shifted to Delhi. This was an unprecedented decision for Indian voluntary agencies — as the founders usually hang on to their leadership position till they die.\n\nSanjoy Ghose wrote extensively about his grassroot experiences with the URMUL Trust in Lunkaransar Village in Bikaner.\nThe Indian Express, a leading national daily, used his writings to launched a successful monthly column named 'Village Voice'. The \"action experiment\" of tapping the power of the mainstream middle class urban English media to reflect unheard rural voices spoken in local languages, grounded in very local realities, got a measure of success.\n\nRecognizing the potential of writing in mainstream media to highlight rural development issues and catalyse change, Sanjoy conceived of CHARKHA. CHARKHA appears to have been initiated to exploit the legitimate opportunities available in the national media for influencing policies related to rural development. It also addressed the concern that such a massive task, required more support than his single voice. His discussions with senior media persons from the national dailies seemed to suggest that an organisation dedicated to development communication could work. CHARKHA in a sense was an attempt to \"institutionalize\" the success of the \"Village voice\" experience — and broaden the scope to bring in more writing talent and different geographies. On 24 October 1994, CHARKHA was formally initiated in New Delhi- with the goal of spinning action into words.Its formal vision is \"To contribute towards building a harmonious, inclusive society empowered by knowledge.\"\n\nSanjoy appeared to have been a firm believer in the philosophy of Reflective practice. He wrote and published extensively, analytic pieces on rural development- which would have incorporated insights from his own personal experiences as a catalyst for rural change\n. The World Bank had also published one such paper.\n\nAfter launching CHARKHA, he decided to work in the insurgent prone Upper Assam, specifically in Majuli island on the Brahmaputra. His father recollected the family discussions around this decision. \" When we were dissuading Sanjoy from going to the terrorism-ridden Assam\", he replied, \"then whose son will you send ?\"\nThrough the sponsorship of Association of Voluntary Agencies for Rurul Development, North East (AVARD-NE) Sanjoy and seven colleagues set up base in Majuli island on the Brahmaputra river in April 1996. The island faced annual flooding and erosion of land. The island had shrunk by around 500 square kilometres in the last twenty years. Around February 1997, he and his team mobilised around 30,000 human days of voluntary labour (shram dhan). An experimental stretch of 1.7 kilometres of land was protected from erosion, by building embankments: using only local resources and their knowledge. The following year this protected stretch of the island survived the floods.\nSanjoy, in this short time, had also diversified the social activities in Majuli: around health (malaria prevention),livelihoods (design, and manufacturing of bamboo and woven products), and education (village libraries).\n\nIt appears that by doing so, Sanjoy and his group had displeased a powerful local Government works contractor lobby: which also provided patronage to the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA). When posters were put up by presumably this contractor lobby, which would have lost its annual lucrative contracts for \"flood protection\": many locals participated in a public meeting on 1 June 1997, to express solidarity with the constructive work done. The local police offered Sanjoy protection, in view of the public threats issued by ULFA. Sanjoy however refused this, in tune with his personal beliefs that \"local people are my best protection\". ULFA abducted Sanjoy on 4 July 1997.\n\nSome of Sanjoy's written work, was put together and was released as a book by Penguin Books in 1998: titled \"Sanjoy's Assam: diaries and writings of Sanjoy Ghose\"\n\nA newspaper article in the Deccan Herald on 9 February 2009 claimed that \"(Ghose) had been killed a day after he was abducted by ULFA cadres on July four, 1997, and his body, which was never found, was thrown into the swirling waters of the Brahmaputra. The killing... was carried out by local cadre even before the top leadership could convey to them the message not to harm him to avoid possible international repercussions.\" Confirming that the death was at the hands of local ULFA terrorists,the ULFA leader, Paresh Baruah stated in an interview that \"there was no instruction to kill Sanjoy Ghosh\".\nThe Central Bureau of Investigation, which had been entrusted with the investigations, of the murder of Sanjoy Ghose, had filed chargesheets against 11 ULFA militants.\n\nThe local ULFA leader, Amrit Datta, who was accused of masterminding the kidnap and murder of Sanjoy Ghose was killed in a joint operation by the Central Reserve Police Force, and the local police in a shootout in the evening of 19 July 2008 in Majuli.\n\nArabinda Rajkhowa, the Chairman of ULFA, publicly apologised at Majuli for the killing of Sanjoy Ghose, as per news reports of June 2011. His widow, Mrs. Schumita Ghose, responded, \"Only the Almighty has the power to forgive. I am just a human being and I want justice to be done.\"\n\nAn international appeal for his release carried by the leftist magazine Economic and Political Weekly, summarised his work in Rajasthan and in media advocacy thus;\n\"From 1986 to 1995 Sanjoy did pioneering work in western Rajasthan. He set up URMUL Trust in 1986 in Bikaner with the chief objective of empowering the local people to address their own development needs. By 1995, URMUL expanded into a network of organisations addressing the concerns of the poor in the districts of Bikaner, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer in western Rajasthan. Sanjoy wrote extensively and spiritedly on development issues. He was one of the firsts to realise the need for media advocacy for the NGOs and struggle-based groups, and established CHARKHA as an interface between NGOs and the mainstream media.\"\n\nA couple of decades, after his untimely demise, both his creations, URMUL Trust and CHARKHA continue to survive and grow in the \"rural development sector\" – URMUL and its affiliates in the desert districts of Rajasthan, and CHARKHA in the world of development media.\nCHARKHA has instituted the \"Sanjoy Ghose Media Fellowships\" in his memory. This has been awarded since 2003 in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, to encourage writers, particularly women, to generate research based writings that reflect their unique perspective on the concerns of their people in a region that has known conflicts for several decades now.\n\nIn 2011, the award was targeted to women writers from the underdeveloped mountain region of Ladakh. In 2015, the award had been renamed Sanjoy Ghose Rural Reporting Awards (Ladakh) 2015 \n\nA review of Charkha in 2017, stated that \"Charkha has since upheld this vision articulated in its mandate \"To contribute towards building a harmonious, inclusive society empowered by knowledge\".Over the last more than two decades Charkha has translated this into an expansive engagement with rural marginalised communities across several regions in the country.Through its #Tri-lingual Feature Service in Hindi, English and Urdu the organisation continues to place their perspectives as articles in the media across the three languages. Charkha is making all attempts to live up to a phrase coined at the time of its founding \" Spinning Action into Words\"!\"\nThe had instituted the Sanjoy Ghose Endowment in his memory in 1998 for \"building a culture of volunteerism and a sense of citizen responsibility among the youth in India's northeastern state of Assam\"\nThe Sanjoy Ghose Memorial Trust Society was formed in the year 2000, in Majuli. The Trust has been holding memorial services every year on 4 July, the day of his disappearance and suspected death.\nThe Trust announced plans to launch an audio-video project on school documentation in Majuli on Ghose’s 15th memorial day on 4 July 2011:in a bid to carry on the social worker’s legacy.\n\nA fictionalised biography on Sanjoy Ghose, written in the Assamese was published in 2008.\n\nA website in his memory was launched on the fifteenth \"smriti divas\" (remembrance day) on 4 July 2011 by this trust.\n\nHis book, Sanjoy's Assam, has been used by the 2011 Indian anti-corruption movement, to initiate the anti corruption movement in Assam.\n\nA bilingual film inspired by his life was made in Assamese and Hindi, which was directed by Bidyut Kotoky and produced by the National Film Development Corporation of India. The film was shot in Majuli and Mumbai. The Assamese version, titled \"Ekhon Nedekha Nodir Xhipare\", was released on 14 September 2012. The film won two awards for the Best Script and Best Actor at the second edition of the Washington DC South Asian Film Festival.\nThe film won the Audience Choice Award at the North Carolina International South Asian Film Festival (NCISAFF) for 2014.\nThe Hindi version, titled \"As the River Flows\", is yet to release.\n\nIn 2016 and 2017, students of the Institute of Rural Management Anand, have celebrated his birthday, (7 December) as \"Joy Day': by organising a blood donation drive, and hosting a function to remember him in their campus.\nIn 37 years Sanjoy Ghose had packed more into life than most people do in a hundred years or more. An article in the prominent political magazine Tehelka, described Sanjoy as \"The man who saw tomorrow\". It ran a feature on him with the title \"Sanjoy Ghose was a dogged catalyst of change. And he paid the ultimate price for it\".\nRN Haldipur, (former director of IRMA),who served on the Board of Tribhuvandas Foundation, when Sanjoy was working there, assessed him thus \"Sanjoy was a positive and tenacious votary who functioned with single-minded purpose. Instead of joining the corporate sector, he took the hard path, full of difficulties and austerity. To him work was soul-satisfying worship. Transparent in his dealings, he was a man of great integrity.\"\n\nHis mission in his own words \"To change the world and make a difference in the lives of ordinary people\".\n\nAwarded \"All India Human Rights Association\" Manav Shri Puraskar award in the field of Journalism & Social Welfare, 1997–98.\n\nAwarded Karmaveer Puraskaar posthumously for Lifelong Fight For Social Justice Through Citizen Action. 2011\n\n"}
{"id": "18956601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18956601", "title": "Solita Solano", "text": "Solita Solano\n\nSolita Solano (1888 – 22 November 1975), born Sarah Wilkinson, was an American writer, poet and journalist.\n\nSarah Wilkinson came from a middle-class family and attended the Emma Willard School in Troy, New York. After the death of her father, she left home and married her childhood sweetheart Oliver Filley. They spent the next four years in the Philippines, in China and in Japan, where her husband worked as an engineer. They returned to New York in 1908, where she started work as a theatre critic and drama editor with the New York Tribune and as a freelance contributor to the National Geographic Society. At this time she changed her name to \"Solita Solano\".\n\nIn 1919, Solano got to know the journalist Janet Flanner in Greenwich Village with whom she started a relationship. In 1921 they travelled to Greece, where Janet was to work on a report for National Geographic on Constantinople. Solano had three books published, and as they were not very successful, returned to journalism. In 1922, they travelled to France, and in Paris they joined the intellectuel-lesbian circle of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, Natalie Clifford Barney, Romaine Brooks and Djuna Barnes.\n\nIn 1929, Solano had an affair with Margaret Anderson, founder of The Little Review, who had come to Paris with her lover, French singer Georgette Leblanc. The affair lasted several years, though Anderson remained living with Leblanc.\n\nWhile in Paris, Janet Flanner started writing, under the Pseudonym \"Genêt\", the \"Letter from Paris\", for \"The New Yorker\". After the outbreak of World War II Solano and Flanner returned to New York.\n\nA few years later Solano left Flanner after Flanner started an affair with Natalia Danesi Murray; meanwhile Solano fell in love with Elizabeth Jenks Clark. Margaret Anderson got to know Clark through Solano after Clark returned to the US. Clark and Solano became Anderson's closest friends, although Anderson had in the meantime fallen in love with Dorothy Caruso, widow of the singer Enrico Caruso.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 40s, Solano studied with G. I. Gurdjieff, and for a while acted as his secretary. She was a member of a key Gurdjieff group known as \"The Rope,\" to which Jane Heap, Margaret Anderson, and Kathryn Hulme also belonged. After Gurdjieff's death in 1949, Solano became the focal point for members of The Rope until her own death. Her notes of Gurdjieff's meetings with The Rope are a remarkable record of his personality and method.\n\nAfter the war Solano returned to France, where she died at the age of 87.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55820463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55820463", "title": "Sustainable Development Goal 6", "text": "Sustainable Development Goal 6\n\nSustainable Development Goal 6 (SDG6 or SDG 6), one of 17 Sustainable Development Goals established by the UN in 2015. It calls for clean water and sanitation for all people. The official wording is: \"Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.\" The goal has eight targets to be achieved by at least 2030. Progress toward the targets will be measured by using eleven \"indicators.\" \n\nSDG6 is closely linked with other Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, improving sanitation also helps make cities more sustainable (Goal 11). Sanitation improvements can lead to more jobs (Goal 8) which would also lead to economic growth (Goal 8). SDG6 progress improves health (Goal 3) and social justice (Goal 16).\n\nSDG 6 has eight targets. Six of them are to be achieved by the year 2030, one by the year 2020 and one has no target year. Each of the targets also has one or two indicators which will be used to measure progress. In total there are 11 indicators for SDG6. \n\nThe first three targets relate to drinking water supply and sanitation: \n\n\nSafe drinking water and hygienic toilets protect people from disease and enable societies to be more productive economically. Attending school and work without disruption supports education and employment, both of which are the foundation of alleviating poverty. Therefore, toilets at school and at the work place are included in the second target (\"achieve access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all\"). Equitable sanitation and hygiene solutions address the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations, such as the elderly or people with disabilities.\n\nWater sources are better preserved if open defecation is ended and sustainable sanitation systems are implemented. Preserving natural sources of water is very important so as to achieve universal access to safe and affordable drinking water. Therefore, one target aims to reduce water pollution by eliminating dumping and minimizing the release of hazardous chemicals and untreated wastewater. The potential for recycling and safe reuse of wastewater is also mentioned.\n\nThe main indicator for the sanitation target is the \"Proportion of population using safely managed sanitation services, including a hand-washing facility with soap and water\". The current statistic in the 2017 baseline estimate by the Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation (JMP) is that 4.5 billion people currently do not have safely managed sanitation. The JMP is a joint program of UNICEF and WHO and compiles data to monitor SDG6 progress. \n\nThe definition of safely managed sanitation service is: \"Use of improved facilities that are not shared with other households and where excreta are safely disposed of in situ or transported and treated offsite.\" Improved sanitation facilities are those designed to hygienically separate excreta from human contact.\n\nThe SDGs are all interlinked. WASH experts have stated that without progress on Goal 6, the other goals and targets cannot be achieved. In other words, accomplishing the other SDGs will require assuring clean water and sanitation for all as stated in SDG6. \n\nSanitation systems with a resource recovery and reuse focus are getting increased attention and can contribute to achieving at least fourteen of the SDGs, especially in an urban context. \n\nRecovering the resources embedded in excreta and wastewater (like nutrients, water and energy) contributes to achieving Goal 12 (sustainable consumption and production) and Goal 2 (end hunger). \n\nEnsuring adequate sanitation and wastewater management along the entire value chain in cities contributes to Goal 11 (sustainable cities and communities), Goal 1 (no poverty) and Goal 8 (decent work and economic growth).\n\nThe Sustainable Sanitation Alliance (SuSanA) works on sanitation issues as a global network of 9000 individuals and 300 partner organizations. Global organizations such as Oxfam, UNICEF, WaterAid and many small NGOs as well as universities, research centres, private enterprises, government-owned entities etc. are all part of SuSanA and are dedicated to achieving SDG6.\n\nEnding open defecation will require provision of toilets and sanitation for 2.6 billion people as well as behavior change of the population. This will require cooperation between governments, civil society and the private sector. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27654562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27654562", "title": "Tata Swach", "text": "Tata Swach\n\nThe Tata Swach is a water purifier developed by Tata Chemicals, a part of the Tata group in India. Swach was designed as a low cost purifier for Indian low-income groups, who lack access to safe drinking water. The product is sold in three variants as Tata Swach, Tata Swach Smart and Tata Swach Smart Magic.\n\nTata Swach was designed by Tata Research, Development and Design Centre (TRDDC) and Tata Chemicals with contributions from other Tata group companies. In 2004 the company developed a water purifier called Sujal. Tata Consultancy Services deployed thousands of these filters in the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster of 2004 as part of its relief activities.\n\nSujal was a very basic low-cost model which used rice-husk ash (produced from heating rice husk in combination with pebbles and cement). Activated silica and carbon is present in the ash; silica can reduce the turbidity of water, while activated carbon binds with and adsorbs non-polar impurities (such as pesticides and fertilisers). However, the purification system did not have bacteriostatic or bactericidal properties and it was incapable of removing impurities such as lithium, alcohols, ammonia, strong acids and bases or inorganic substances like sodium, lead, iron, arsenic and nitrates. Dr. Muraly Sastry, Chief Scientific Officer of Tata Chemicals, confirmed that even though Sujal could successfully remove the odour, colour and particulate matter from impure water, many pathogens could not be eliminated.\n\nTo address these concerns the Swach product was conceptualised by Tata Consultancy Services and produced by Tata Chemicals. Titan Industries contributed to the development of special assembly presses for mass production of the units.\n\nIn the Tata Swach design, water purification is carried out using processed rice husk ash impregnated with nano (1 x 10) silver particles for purifying the water and to destroy disease causing bacteria, germs and other organisms. The bacteriostatic and bactericidal properties of silver are attributed to its ability to react with the sulphhydryl (-SH) groups in the bacterial cells that produces the structural changes in bacterial cell membranes and interacts with nucleic acids. The nano sized particles help in increasing the surface area so that the bacteria get enough reaction time.\n\nThe Swach can purify water at the rate of about every hour. The purifier consists of two parts; an upper reservoir where the untreated water enters and a lower middle portion with a bulb to which the cartridge can be attached. Another reservoir is placed at the lower end, which collects purified water. The two chambers are stackable and arranged so that the entire system can function on gravity. The Tata Swach Smart is a variant with a more compact design, holding .\n\nTata Swach Bulb is the main purifying unit of the product. The Swach Bulb, depending on the quality of water, can purify about of water, after which the bulb must be replaced. The bulb has a \"fuse\" indicating when a cartridge change is required.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30476982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30476982", "title": "The AfriPop Project", "text": "The AfriPop Project\n\nThe AfriPop Project, is a non-profit project primarily funded by the Fondation Philippe Wiener - Maurice Anspach, Belgium. AfriPop represents a collaboration between the University of Florida, United States, the University of Brussels, Belgium and the Malaria Public Health & Epidemiology Group, Centre for Geographic Medicine, Kenya.\nHigh resolution, contemporary data on human population distributions are a prerequisite for the accurate measurement of the impacts of population growth, for monitoring changes and for planning interventions. The AfriPop project was initiated in July 2009 with an aim of producing detailed and freely-available population distribution maps for the whole of sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe AfriPop team have assembled a unique spatial database of linked information on contemporary census data across Africa, satellite-imagery derived settlement maps and land cover information. Novel approaches to extracting detailed spatial data on settlements from satellite imagery have been combined with contemporary detailed census data and land cover to map population densities across sub-Saharan Africa at unprecedented levels of detail. The resultant maps are freely available from the project website.\n\nAfrica,\nWorld Population,\nMalaria Atlas Project\n\n"}
{"id": "9508518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9508518", "title": "Timothy's Law", "text": "Timothy's Law\n\nTimothy's Law is the reference used for a New York state statute signed into law on December 22, 2006 by Governor George E. Pataki which took effect January 1, 2007. The law requires that health plans sold in the state provide comparable coverage for mental health ailments as it does for physical aliments. This is often referred to as mental health parity.\n\nThe law was named after Timothy, a boy from Schenectady, NY who committed suicide at age 12 on March 16, 2001. Timothy had been diagnosed with several behavioral disorders and severe depression but had exhausted the mental health benefits on his family's health plan. As a result, the O'Clairs were forced to relinquish full custody of their child in order to make him eligible for Medicaid which paid for all the services which Timothy needed. However, when Timothy returned home, he once again was bound by the limits of his parents medical insurance benefits. In 2003, Timothy's parents joined other mental health advocates and lent Timothy's name to the parity movement in New York State and petitioned the state government to pass a law that would require health plans to provide coverage for mental health ailments and behavioral disorders comparable with coverage for physical ailments.\n\n\"Timothy's Law\" was sponsored by Senators Thomas Morahan and Thomas Libous and passed the state senate on September 15, 2006. It was Sponsored by Assembly Members Paul Tonko and Peter Rivera and passed the Assembly consecutively for 5 years. Timothy's Law was sent to the governor on December 13, 2006 who later signed it into law. A condition of Timothy's Law passing the NY State legislature was it have a 2-year sunset clause to provide for an actuarial study on the cost effectiveness (the shortest sunset of any law in NY history). Timothy's Law became effective January 1, 2007. In May, 2009, the Superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department released the actuarial study on the cost effectiveness of Timothy's Law, and reported that the law had considerably increased mental health parity at a nominal cost to employers. It stated that neither consumers nor brokers viewed the mandates as a significant issue relative to cost or their overall purchasing decision.\n\nAfter both houses of the NYS Legislature voted to make Timothy's Law permanent in the 2009 session, Governor Patterson signed the bill into law on July 11, 2009. \"Timothy's Law\" was originally set to expire on December 31, 2009.\n\nThe legislation included several provisions that affect the way health insurers in the state cover mental health services.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913249", "title": "Trophy hunting", "text": "Trophy hunting\n\nTrophy hunting is hunting of wild game for human recreation. The trophy is the animal or part of the animal kept, and usually displayed, to represent the success of the hunt. The game sought is typically a large or impressively ornamented male, such as one having large horns or antlers. Generally, only parts of the animal are kept as a trophies (usually the head, skin, horns or antlers) and the carcass itself is used for food or donated to the local community.\n\nTrophies are often displayed in the hunter's home or office, and often in specially designed \"trophy rooms,\" sometimes called \"game rooms\" or \"gun rooms,\" in which the hunter's weaponry is displayed as well.\n\nTrophy hunting has both firm supporters and strong opponents. Debates surrounding trophy hunting centrally concern not only the question of the morality of recreational hunting and supposed conservation efforts of big-game and ranch hunting, but also the observed decline in animal species that are targets for trophy hunting.\n\nRanch hunting is a form of big-game hunting where the animals hunted are specifically bred on a ranch for trophy hunting purposes.\n\nMany species of game such as the Indian blackbuck, nilgai, axis deer, barasingha, the Iranian red sheep, and variety of other species of deer, sheep, and antelope from Africa, Asia, and the Pacific islands were introduced to ranches in Texas and Florida for the sake of trophy hunting.\n\nThese animals are typically hunted on a fee for each kill, with hunters paying $4,000 or more to be able to hunt exotic game. As many of these species are endangered or threatened in their native habitat, the United States' government requires 10% of the hunting fee to be given to conservation efforts in the areas where these animals are indigenous. Hunting of endangered animals in the United States is normally illegal under the Endangered Species Act, but is permitted on these ranches since the rare animals hunted there are not indigenous to the United States.\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States has criticized these ranches and their hunters with the reasoning that they are still hunting endangered animals even if the animals were raised specifically to be hunted.\n\nTrophy hunting has been practiced in Africa and is still a practiced in many African countries. According to a study sponsored by International Council for Game and Wildlife Conservation (CIC) in partnership with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the revenue generated by hunting tourism in seven Southern African Development Communities (SADC) in 2008 was approximately 190 million USD.\n\nIn an opinion piece by Jeff Flocken of the International Fund for Animal Welfare, he states that \"despite the wild claims that trophy hunting brings millions of dollars in revenue to local people in otherwise poor communities, there is no proof of this. Even pro-hunting organizations like the International Council for Game and Wildlife Conservation have reported that only 3 percent of revenue from trophy hunting ever makes it to the communities affected by hunting. The rest goes to national governments or foreign-based outfitters. The money that does come into Africa from hunting pales in comparison to the billions generated from tourists who come just to watch wildlife. If lions and other animals continue to disappear from Africa, this vital source of income—nonconsumptive tourism—will end, adversely impacting people all over Africa.\"\n\nHowever, South African Environmental Affairs Minister, Edna Molewa, contradicts Flocken's conclusions by stating that the hunting industry has contributed millions to South Africa's economy in past years. In the 2010 hunting season, total revenue of approximately R1.1 billion was generated by the local and trophy hunting industries collectively. \"This amount only reflects the revenue generated through accommodation and species fees. The true revenue is therefore substantially higher, as this amount does not even include revenue generated through the associated industries as a result of the multiplier effect,\" according to Molewa.\n\nAfter the attention gained from the Killing of Cecil the lion, activists turned to North American wildlife, in particular the cougar. The cougar, also called the mountain lion, puma, or panther, is hunted for sport across its expansive habitat. According to the Washington, the only federally protected populations in the country are the Florida panther and the Eastern cougar, believed to be extinct.\n\nSeveral states—including Colorado, Utah and Washington—in recent years have proposed an increase in cougar hunting for various reasons, such as the desire to decrease human and livestock conflicts and/or to increase native deer populations. California is the only state throughout the West that prohibits cougar hunting.\n\nThe Boone and Crockett Club, North America's oldest wildlife conservation group, used the selective harvest of older males to aid in the recovery of many big game species which were on the brink of extinction at the turn of the 20th century. The organization continues to promote this practice today, and monitors conservation success through its Big Game Records data set.\n\nNorth American trophy hunting should not be confused with canned hunting or \"vanity hunting,\" which involves the shooting of genetically manipulated and selectively bred animals for the sole purpose of collecting an animal for display. The Boone and Crockett Club disavows this practice and actively campaigns against it.\n\nTrophy hunting is legal in many countries ; however, there are restrictions on the species that can be hunted, when hunting can take place, and the weapons that can be used. Permits and government consent are also required. Specific laws of trophy hunting vary based on the criteria mentioned, and some areas have even banned trophy hunting all together. Specific laws of trophy hunting usually concern endangered animals in an effort to protect them from extinction. In 1973, the United States passed a law called the Endangered Species Act. This was meant to stop hunting and trafficking of many endangered species in the U.S. that are looked at as prized by many hunters such as the Wood Bison and Polar Bear.\n\nTrophy hunting has been considered essential for providing economic incentives to conserve large carnivores according to other research studies in \"Conservation Biology\", \"Journal of Sustainable Tourism\", \"Wildlife Conservation by Sustainable Use\", and \"Animal Conservation\".\n\nTanzania has an estimated 40 per cent of the population of lions. Its wildlife authorities defend their success in keeping such numbers (as compared to countries like Kenya, where lion numbers have plummeted dramatically) as linked to the use of trophy hunting as a conservation tool. According to Alexander N. Songorwa, director of wildlife for the Tanzanian Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, trophy hunting generated roughly $75 million for Tanzania's economy from 2008 to 2011.\n\nWhen poorly managed, trophy hunting can cause negative ecological impacts for the target species such as altered age/sex structures, social disruption, deleterious genetic effects, and even population declines in the event of excessive off-takes, as well as threaten the conservation and influence the behavior of non-target species. The conservation role of the industry is also hindered by governments and hunting operators that fail to devolve adequate benefits to local communities, reducing incentives for them to protect wildlife, and by unethical activities, such as shooting from vehicles and canned hunting, conducted by some operators which attract negative press and foster support for hunting bans.\n\nAccording to the Smithsonian Institution and the World Wildlife Fund, wildlife populations have decreased by an alarming rate of 52% since 1970. This is heavily concentrated on mammals, birds, amphibians and reptiles. The decline is attributed to several reasons including over-exploitation, habitat loss, pollution and climate change.\nThe graph depicts lion population decline from the 1800s. This information was taken from the National Geographic Big Cats Initiative.\n\nA 2005 paper by Nigel Leader-Williams and colleagues in the \"Journal of International Wildlife Law and Policy\" asserted that the legalization of white rhinoceros hunting in South Africa motivated private landowners to reintroduce the species onto their lands. As a result, white rhinos increased from fewer than one hundred individuals to more than 11,000. Leader-Williams's study also showed that trophy hunting in Zimbabwe doubled wildlife areas relative to state protected areas. The implementation of controlled and legalized hunting led to an increase in the area of suitable land available to elephants and other wildlife, which \"reversed the problem of habitat loss and helping to maintain a sustained population increase in Zimbabwe's already large elephant population.\"\n\nA scientific study in the journal, \"Biological Conservation\" by Diogo Andrade, states that trophy hunting is of \"major importance to conservation in Africa by creating economic incentives for conservation over vast areas, including areas which may be unsuitable for alternative wildlife-based land uses such as photographic ecotourism.\" Financial incentives from trophy hunting effectively more than double the land area that is used for wildlife conservation, relative to what would be conserved relying on national parks alone, according to the study published in \"Biological Conservation\".\n\nAccording to the American writer and journalist Richard Conniff, if Namibia is home to 1,750 of the roughly 5,000 black rhinos surviving in the wild, it's because it allows trophy hunting. Namibia's mountain zebra population has increased from 1,000 in 1982 to 27,000 in 2014. Elephants, which are gunned down elsewhere for their ivory, have gone from 15,000 to 20,000 in 1995. Lions, which were on the brink of extinction \"from Senegal to Kenya\", are increasing in Namibia.\n\nThe International Union for Conservation of Nature recognizes that trophy hunting, when well-managed, can be sustainable and generate significant economic incentives for the conservation of target species and their habitats outside of protected areas.\n\nA study published in the journal \"Animal Conservation\" and led by Peter Lindsey of Kenya's Mpala Research Centre concluded that most trophy hunters assure that they are concerned about the conservation, ethical, and social issues that hunting raises. The study interviewed 150 Americans who had hunted in Africa before, or who planned to do so within three years. For example, hunters assure that they were much less willing to hunt in areas where African wild dogs or cheetahs were illegally shot than their hunting operators perceived, and they also showed greater concern for social issues than their operators realized, with a huge willingness to hunt in areas were local people lived and benefited from hunting (Fig.1). Eighty-six percent of hunters told the researchers they preferred hunting in an area where they knew that a portion of the proceeds went back into local communities. A certification system could therefore allow hunters to select those operators who benefit local people and conduct themselves in a conservation-friendly manner.\n\nCougar hunting quotas have had a negative effect on the animals' population but also, the people in the surrounding communities. According to Robert Wieglus, director of Large Carnivore Conservation Lab at Washington State University, when too many cougars are killed demographic issues can be seen in the cat's population. The male cougar is extremely territorial and will often seek out females in the territory to both mate and kill any cubs to ensure room for their own offspring. Oftentimes these are young \"teenage\" males who are hormonal and unpredictable.\n\nThese \"teenage\" lions are mostly responsible for killed livestock and unwanted human interaction. In addition, they often drive females with cubs into hiding or new territory, forcing the females to hunt new prey they did not before.\n\n\"Basically the bottom line was this heavy hunting of cougars was actually causing all the problems we were seeing,\" Wielgus said of his work in Washington.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, trophy hunting \"provides an economic incentive\" for ranchers to continue to breed those species, and that hunting \"reduces the threat of the species' extinction\".\nAccording to Dr G.C. Dry, former President of Wildlife Ranching South Africa, wildlife ranches have contributed greatly to the South African economy. In his paper \"COMMERCIAL WILDLIFE RANCHING’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE GREEN ECONOMY\", he states that \"commercial wildlife ranching is about\nappropriate land-use and rural development; it is less about animals per se, not a white affluent issue, not a conservation at-all-cost\nissue, but about economic sustainability\". Dr Dry's paper concludes that \"It is a land-use option that is\necologically appropriate, economically sustainable, politically sensitive, and finally, socially just\", however no references or sources are provided for the data used.\n\nThe International Union for Conservation of Nature reports in \"The baby and the bathwater:\ntrophy hunting, conservation and rural livelihoods\", that trophy hunting, when well-managed, can be sustainable and generate significant economic incentives for the conservation of target species, but that there are valid concerns about the legality, sustainability and ethics of some hunting practices. The paper concludes that \"in some contexts, there may be valid and\nfeasible alternatives to trophy hunting that can deliver the above-mentioned benefits, but identifying, funding and implementing these requires genuine consultation and engagement with affected governments, the private sector and communities. \n\nThe U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service imposed a ban on imports. This ban is limited to elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and Tanzania for 2014–2015 and likely going to extend and expand.\n\nIn 2001, Botswana instituted a one year ban on lion hunting. They had previously permitted the hunting of fifty lions each year, which caused a shortage in mature males in the population, as the hunters preferred the lions with the largest manes. After the ban, Safari Club International including prominent member, former President George H. W. Bush successfully lobbied the Botswanan government to reverse the ban.\n\nBotswana again banned trophy hunting in 2014, and now villagers claim they get no income from trophy hunters, suffer from damaged crop fields caused by elephants and buffaloes, and lions killing their livestock. Some conservationists claim trophy hunting is more effective for wildlife management than a complete hunting ban.\n\nIn the wake of the killing of Cecil the lion, Emirates Airlines, American Airlines, Delta, and United Airlines have all banned the transportation of hunting trophies on flights.\n\nOn the contrary, Kenya, which banned trophy hunting in 1977, has seen a 70 percent decline of wild animals according to Laurence Frank, a zoology researcher at the University of California at Berkeley and director of the conservation group \"Living with Lions\". Because the government has no incentive to protect wild animals, effective enforcement on protecting animals has been a disaster according to Frank.\n\nAccording to a 2012 article by P. Lindsey and G. Balme, if lion hunting was effectively precluded, trophy hunting could potentially become financially unviable across at least 59,538 km that could result in a concomitant loss of habitat.\n\nHowever, the loss of lion hunting could have other potentially broader negative impacts including reduction of competitiveness of wildlife-based land uses relative to ecologically unfavorable alternatives.\n\nRestrictions on lion hunting may also reduce tolerance for the species among communities where local people benefit from trophy hunting, and may reduce funds available for anti-poaching.\n\nOpponents voice strong opinions against trophy hunting based on the belief that it is immoral and lacks financial contribution to the communities affected by trophy hunting and to conservation efforts. \"National Geographic\", for example, published a report in 2015 which says government corruption, especially in Zimbabwe, prevents elephant hunting fees from going towards any conservation efforts, with authorities keeping the fees for themselves. Governments also take more wildlife areas to profit from poaching and trophy hunting. Similarly, a 2017 report by the Australian-based Economists at Large says that trophy hunting amounted to less than one percent of tourism revenue in eight African countries. According to an IUCN report from 2009, surrounding communities in West Africa receive little benefit from the hunting-safari business.\n\nOpponents also cite that the genetic health and social behaviors of species is adversely affected because hunters often kill the largest or most significant male of a species. The removal the most significant animals (because of the size of their horns or mane for example) can severely affect the health of a species population. As Dr Rob Knell states 'Because these high-quality males with large secondary sexual traits tend to father a high proportion of the offspring, their 'good genes' can spread rapidly, so populations of strongly sexually selected animals can adapt quickly to new environments. Removing these males reverses this effect and could have serious and unintended consequences. If the population is having to adapt to a new environment and you remove even a small proportion of these high quality males, you could drive it to extinction.'\n\nCited from The League Against Cruel Sports \"A November 2004 study by the University of Port Elizabeth estimated that eco-tourism on private game reserves generated more than 15 times the income of livestock or game rearing or overseas hunting. (1) Eco-tourism lodges in Eastern Cape Province produce almost 2000 rand (£180) per hectare. Researchers also noted that more jobs were created and staff received \"extensive skills training\".\n\nThe U.S. House Committee on Natural Resources in 2016 concluded that trophy hunting may be contributing to the extinction of certain animals.\n\nNnimmo Bassey, Nigerian environmental activist and director of the Health of Mother Earth Foundation, asserted in November 2017 that \"wildlife in Africa have been decimated by trophy hunters\".\n\nConservationist groups such as IFAW and HSUS assert that trophy hunting is a key factor in the \"silent extinction\" of giraffes.\n\nMany of the 189 countries signatory to the 1992 Rio Accord have developed biodiversity action plans that discourage the hunting of protected species.\n\nTrophy hunting is also opposed by the group In Defense of Animals (IDA) on the basis that trophy hunters are not aimed at conservation, they are instead aimed at glory in hunting and killing the biggest and rarest animals. They contend that the trophy hunters are not interested in even saving endangered animals, and are more than willing to pay the very high prices for permits to kill members of an endangered species.\n\nPETA is also opposed to trophy hunting on the basis that it is unnecessary and cruel. The opposition from PETA is on the basis of the moral justification of hunting for sport. The pain that the animals suffer is not justified by the enjoyment that the hunters receive.\n\nThe League Against Cruel Sports also opposes trophy hunting for the reason that even if the animal that is being hunted for a trophy is not endangered, it is still unjustified to kill them. They respond to claims of economic benefits as false justifications for the continuance of the inhumane sport.\n\nThe David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, an elephant conservation organization, believe that elephants bring in significantly more revenue from tourists who want to see them alive. Their 2013 report stated \"alive, they benefit local communities and economies; dead they benefit criminal and even terrorist groups.\"\n\nProponents of trophy hunting claim many hunting fees go toward conservation, such as portions of hunting license fees, hunting tags and ammunition taxes. In addition, private groups, such as the National Shooting Sports Foundation, which contributed more than $400,000 in 2005, and smaller private groups also contribute significant funds; for example, the Grand Slam Club Ovis has raised more than $6.3 million to date for the conservation of sheep.\n\nOrganizations that support trophy hunting as a tool for conservation include Boone and Crockett Club, The National Wildlife Federation, The Wilderness Society, The Izzaak Walton League of America, North American Wildlife Foundation, Outdoor Writers Association of America, Ducks Unlimited, World Wildlife Fund, The American Forestry Association, Wildlife Legislative Fund of America, Wildlife Management Institute, The Wildlife Society, and IUCN.\n\nThe President of Panthera, a conservation group for big cats and their ecosystems, argues that trophy hunting gives African governments economic incentives to leave safari blocks as wilderness, and that hunting remains the most effective tool to protect wilderness in many parts of Africa.\n\nOrganizations that are neutral and do not oppose trophy hunting include The National Audubon Society, Defenders of Wildlife, and The Sierra Club\n\nOne proposed solution to these problems is the development of a certification system, whereby hunting operators are rated on three criteria: \n\nIntroducing a certification system however remains challenging because it requires co-operation between hunting operators, conservationists and governments. It also requires difficult questions to be answered, including; what constitutes ethical hunting? Who constitutes local communities and what represents adequate benefits for them? Some researchers also continue to express concern that allowing trophy hunts for endangered animals might send the wrong message to influential people around the world, perhaps with adverse consequences for conservation. For example, it has been suggested that people will contribute less money to conservation organizations because allowing hunting of a species could suggest that it does not need saving.\n\nThe controversy surrounding trophy hunting was further ignited when an American dentist Walter Palmer gained internet infamy when a picture of him and the dead lion Cecil went viral. Palmer is an experienced and avid big-game hunter and reportedly paid over 50,000 US dollars to hunt and kill the lion.\n\nCecil the lion was one of the most known and studied lions in Zimbabwe. The lion was lured from the park and, after being injured by an arrow and stalked for 40 hours, Cecil was finally killed. Palmer was reportedly attracted to Cecil's rare black mane. Had Cecil been in the park, it would have been illegal to kill him. The actions the dentist and his hired hunter took in luring out of the park were not endorsed by trophy hunting officials in Zimbabwe. While Zimbabwe courts initially ruled his killing to be illegal, charges were ultimately dropped against the hunter Palmer hired.\n\nThousands of people went on social media sites to condemn Palmer's actions. Responses included Facebook pages such as \"Shame Lion Killer Walter Palmer and River Bluff Dental.\"\n\nTrophy hunters imported over 1.26 million trophies into the United States of America in the 10 years from 2005 to 2014. Canada was the leading source of imported trophies.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2014 the top ten trophy species imported into the United States were:\nFrom 2005 to 2014 the 'Big Five' trophy species imported into the United States, totaling about 32,500 lions, elephants, rhinos, buffalo, and leopards combined, from Africa were:\nMexico has a hunting industry valued at approximately $200 million with about 4,000 hunting ranches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14833578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14833578", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in Portugal", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in Portugal\n\nThe Water supply and sanitation services in Portugal have seen important advances in access to services, technologies used and service quality over the past decades (1980s–1990s), partially achieved thanks to important funds from the European Union. Nevertheless, sanitation still remains relatively low in mountain rural areas and some people have their own sources of water controlled by municipalities.\n\nDuring the 1990s Portugal has put in place a modern institutional framework for the sector, which includes a national regulatory agency (ERSAR - The Water and Waste Services Regulation Authority) and multi-municipal water and sanitation companies.\n\nIn Portugal 93% of households have access to drinking water through house connections (97% in urban areas, but only 50% in rural areas) \n76% of households have access to sewer connections.\n\nWater supply is continuous, except during droughts.\n\nDrinking water quality is not consistently good, especially in smaller systems. Portugal does not comply with a series of drinking water parameters (iron, manganese, total coliforms, faecal coliforms, faecal streptococci and clostridium) laid down in the EU drinking water directive. For example, almost 50% of water supply zones do not comply as regards total coliforms, while 20% of the zones do not comply with the faecal coliforms parameter.\n\nPortugal does not yet fully comply with EU regulations on wastewater discharges. Even where wastewater treatment plants exist they do not always function properly. Especially in cities with combined sewers, treatment plants do not function properly after heavy rains. Sewer overflows during heavy rains are frequent, partly due to unauthorized storm water drain connections to the sewer system.\n\nFor example, in Lisbon, the waste water treatment plant of Alcântara was not operational in 2007; then refurbished in 2011. In Matosinhos in the region of Porto, only primary (basic) treatment is in place. In Costa de Aveiro (Aveiro, 60% of the polluting load generated is not collected and 65% is not treated. In Póvoa de Varzim/Vila do Conde, 60% of the load is not collected and the level of treatment in place is unknown.\n\nIn some beaches bathing is restricted because of pollution.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment and Regional Development is in charge of sector policies. As in many other countries, water and sanitation is not a political priority. Political actions at the local level are often oriented at the short-term, following electoral cycles, with limited long-term planning. Nevertheless, there has been remarkable stability of the national policy framework independent of electoral cycles.\n\nIn 1997 Portugal created a national regulatory agency, which is now called the Water and Waste Services Regulation Authority \"Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços de Águas e Resíduos\" (ERSAR). ERSAR is in charge of water supply, wastewater and solid waste management. Its attributions include the economic regulation of service providers, as well as the regulation of their service quality, including water quality. The regulatory agency is directed by a three-member Board, whose members are appointed upon the recommendation of the Minister of Environment.\n\nWater resources management is the responsibility of the Water Institute INAG, created in 1993 under the Ministry of Environment and Regional Development. INAG operates, among others, on the basis of the 2005 Water Law, which transposes the EU water framework directive into national law. Portugal has drawn up a National Water Plan and 15 River Basin Plans.\n\nProvision of water and sanitation services in Portugal is a shared responsibility between the 308 municipalities and the national, public holding company Águas de Portugal (AdP) and its subsidiaries. About 73% of the population in 243 municipalities receives water directly from municipalities (3.5 million people) or single-municipality companies established under public law (2.5 million people). 27% of the population receives water \"directly\" from companies established under private law, including 1.7 million from multi-municipal companies majority-owned by Águas de Portugal and 0.9 million from other municipal companies established under private law. Many municipalities do not control their sources of bulk water supply. Companies established under private law, in particular multi-municipal companies co-owned by Águas de Portugal, thus sell water to municipalities, providing water indirectly in bulk to 53% of the population. In addition, as mentioned above, companies established under private law provide water directly to 27% of the population. Thus, a total of about 80% of the population receives water directly or indirectly multi-municipal companies established under private law.\n\nIndependently of whether utilities are established under public or private law, all infrastructure is publicly owned. There is only limited private sector participation in the provision of water and sanitation services. Storm water drainage is directly provided by the municipalities.\n\nAccording to the local government law (Lei das autarquias locais) the country’s 308 municipalities are responsible for providing water supply and sanitation services, either directly or indirectly through concessions. Decree-law 379/93 of 1993 establishes the legal basis for concessions to municipal and multi-municipal water and sanitation companies established under private law (typically publicly owned shareholder companies that are part of AdP). As mentioned above, these have come into widespread use in Portugal ever since.\n\nWith total assets amounting to around €7.5 billion, the AdP Group is the largest entity operating in the environmental sector in Portugal. The AdP Group was founded in 1993 and set the mission of developing multi-municipal water supply and wastewater sanitation systems and currently providing services to over 80% of the Portuguese population. The core activity involves the integrated management of the urban water cycle and spanning all of its respective phases, ranging from the capture, treatment and distribution of water for public consumption to the collection, transport, treatment and disposal of urban and industrial wastewaters and including their recycling and reutilisation. Through its different companies, the group has a nationwide presence, providing services to municipalities that simultaneously serve as shareholders in the companies managing multi-municipal systems (“upstream” systems), and directly serving the populations through municipal systems (“downstream” systems) providing water and sanitation systems.\n\nIn recent years, in association with local partners as well as other Portuguese companies in this sector, the group has undertaken a diverse range of projects in countries including Angola, Algeria, Brazil, Cape Verde, East Timor, Morocco, Mozambique and Sao Tome e Principe, whether in the format of technical assistance or the management of water and wastewater concessionary services. Currently, the group is present in Angola, where it set up a subsidiary in 2010; in Mozambique through its stake in Aquatec; and in various other countries following the signing of service provision and technical assistance contracts.\n\nMap of service areas of water and sewer companies\n\nEPAL - the water company serving Lisbon Empresa Portuguesa das Águas Livres, SA (EPAL) is a special case. The water company serving Lisbon and surrounding municipalities is a fully owned subsidiary of Águas de Portugal, in charge of bulk water supply and of water distribution. EPAL is the company responsible for the delivery of water to households in the capital (Lisboa) where it has around 350,000 clients. In terms of its bulk operations, EPAL supplies water to 35 municipalities on the north bank of the river Tagus and, since 2015, delegated management responsibility for the multi-municipal water supply and sanitation systems of Lisbon and the Tagus Valley, which integrates 86 municipalities and a population of around 3.8 million inhabitants in a territorial area making up 33% of mainland Portugal.\n\nWhen Portugal emerged from years of dictatorship and the Carnation Revolution's turmoil in 1974, the level of access to services, the technologies used and the service quality were far from optimal. In particular, most municipal wastewater was discharged without any treatment at that time. However, substantial improvements have been achieved since then, in particular after Portugal's adhesion to the European Community (now the European Union) in 1986 which was accompanied by the gradual introduction of EU standards and financing by the European Investment Bank, the introduction of multi-municipal utilities and the holding company \"Águas de Portugal\" in 1993, and the creation of a regulatory agency for the sector in 2000.\n\nPortugal's membership of the European Community in 1986 and the EU Urban waste water framework directive of 1991 triggered a series of reforms undertaken by the government of then Prime Minister Cavaco Silva in order to modernize the sector, to improve service quality and to effectively use EU funds destined to the sector. Until then service provision had been the sole responsibility of the municipalities, with the exception of the metropolitan area of Lisbon which was served by the multi-municipal company called \"Empresa Portuguesa das Águas Livres\" (EPAL). Many municipalities were small and did not have the financial or human resources to modernize their water and sanitation services. Furthermore, the need to buy water from sources located in other municipalities and to lower costs by constructing wastewater treatment plants serving several municipalities, provided incentives for municipalities to cooperate.\n\nTherefore, in 1993, the government introduced a policy to actively promote multi-municipal companies through Decree-law 379/93. The main vehicle to advance the reform process was the public Holding Company \"Águas de Portugal\" created in the same year, which was to be the majority owner of the newly created multi-municipal companies alongside with the participating municipalities. The government provided preferential access to EU structural funds to those municipalities that agreed to participate in the new multi-municipal companies, which were gradually created beginning in 1995. There was a strong continuity of sector policies, despite a change in government from the Social Democratic Party to the Socialist Party of Prime Minister António Guterres after the elections of 1995.\n\nIn 2000 the government published the first strategic plan for water and sanitation, further promoting the modernization of the sector and the consolidation of service provision. In the same year the regulatory agency IRAR began its work. Solid waste management was included in the purview of both AdP and IRAR, which was later renamed into ERSAR. Sector policies continued to be stable after subsequent changes of government in the elections of 2002 won by the Social Democrats and of 2005 won by the Socialists. A judgment by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) of 29 September 2005 found against Portugal for not complying with a series of drinking water parameters laid down in the EU drinking water directive. In 2007 the government published its second strategic plan for water and sanitation.\n\nIn March 2007 the European Commission launched infringement procedures against Portugal for not complying with three Court judgements on the quality of drinking water. It also referred Portugal to the European Court of Justice over its failure to implement the EU wastewater framework directive.\n\nEnvironment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said: \"It is important that Portugal comply with these Court judgements, since they have a direct bearing on public health and the conservation of important natural areas. The Commission has no choice but to continue with legal action if we are to achieve the level of environmental protection intended in our legislation.\"\n\nIn 29 of the urban areas concerned by the directive, required collection and/or treatment systems are still not in place. For instance in Lisbon, the waste water treatment plant of Alcântara is not operational. In Matosinhos in the region of Oporto, only primary (basic) treatment is in place. In Costa de Aveiro, 60% of the polluting load generated is not collected and 65% is not treated. In Povoa de Varzim /Vila do Conde, 60% of the load was not collected and the level of treatment in place was unknown. In August 2010 a tertiary treatment plant started operating.(source missing)\n\nConcerning drinking water, Portugal still does not comply with some of the parameters of the EU directive. For example, almost 50% of water supply zones do not comply as regards total coliforms, while 20% of the zones do not comply with the faecal coliforms parameter. The situation improved in 2004, the most recent year for which Portugal provided data.\n\nFor regional companies water tariffs vary between 0.31 and 0.55 euro per cubic metre and sewer tariffs vary between 0.33 and 0.54 euro per cubic metre. While in water supply systems cost recovery levels are satisfactory, the situation regarding sanitation is clearly unsustainable. The coastal urban regions show greater cost recovery ratios than the inland regions, especially regarding the Northeast region where the costs are higher and revenues are lower. A decree defining the water and sanitation tariff policy is being finalized in 2007. The decree determines the basic rules for tariff setting and aims at achieving full cost recovery, in line with the EU Water Framework Directive.\n\nIn 2010 the government was planning to set up a national tariff equilibrium fund to cross-subsidize utilities in the poorer inland regions with revenues from the wealthier coastal regions. The regulator ERSAR says that it is not aware of a similar mechanism anywhere else in the world.\n\nThere have been protests against tariff increases under private concessions. For example, residents of Paços de Ferreira, a municipality in northern Portugal, say that after the private company AGS took over their water system the price of water has gone up by around 6% every year.\n\nMany water systems in Portugal are quite old, so that there is a substantial requirement for infrastructure rehabilitation. From 2000 to 2006 investment needs in the sector were estimated at 4.23 billion euro, including 2.37 billion euro in bulk water supply and wastewater treatment (\"vertem \"baixa\"\"). Actual investments were in the same order of magnitude, but with a very different breakdown than expected: 3.4 billion euro, or 77% more than expected, had to be invested in bulk supply and wastewater treatment, mainly because cost estimates had been too low and because environmental standards had been tightened. Concerning investments in water distribution and sewers (\"vertem \"alta\"\"), they were only 0.9 billion euro and thus much lower than expected. Many of these investments had to be postponed because of lack of funding.\n\nAdP by itself invested 588 million euro in 2006 alone. Grants from the European Regional Development Fund funded about 1.7 billion euro, or 40% of total investments in 2000-2006. Loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB) to Águas de Portugal and self-generated capital of the utilities funded the remainder of the investments. In October 2006 the EIB approved a 925 million euro loan for investments in eleven regional water and sanitation utilities in Portugal.\n\nSince 2000 two mid-term national investment plans for the sector, PEAASAR I 2000-2006 and PEAASAR II 2007-2013, have been approved. Such national sector investment plans are an interesting feature that is specific to Portugal and are not common in other EU countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23291018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23291018", "title": "Wireless Medical Telemetry Service", "text": "Wireless Medical Telemetry Service\n\nWireless Medical Telemetry Service (WMTS) is a wireless service specifically defined in the United States by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for transmission of data related to a patient's health (biotelemetry). It was created in 2000 because of interference issues due to establishment of digital television. The bands defined are 608-614 MHz, 1395-1400 MHz and 1427-1432 MHz. Devices using these bands are typically proprietary. Further, the use of these bands has not been internationally agreed to, so many times devices cannot be marketed or used freely in countries other than the United States. \n\nBecause of this, in addition to WMTS, many manufacturers have created devices that transmit data in the ISM bands such as 902-928 MHz, and, more typically, 2.4-2.5 GHz, often using IEEE 802.11 or Bluetooth radios.\n\nThere is an FCC statement on coexistence of WMTS in various frequency bands. \nPrior to the establishment of the WMTS, medical telemetry devices generally could be operated on an unlicensed basis on vacant television channels 7-13 (174-216 MHz) and 14-46 (470-668 MHz) or on a licensed but secondary basis to private land mobile radio operations in the 450-470 MHz frequency band. This meant that wireless medical telemetry operations had to accept interference from the primary users of these frequency bands, i.e., the television broadcasters and private land mobile radio licensees. Further, if a wireless medical telemetry operation caused interference to television or private land mobile radio transmissions, the user of the wireless medical telemetry equipment would be responsible for rectifying the problem, even if that meant shutting down the medical telemetry operation.\n\nThe FCC was concerned that certain regulatory developments, including the advent of digital television (DTV) service, would result in more intensive use of these frequencies by the primary services, subjecting wireless medical telemetry operations to greater interference than before and perhaps precluding such operations entirely in many instances. To ensure that wireless medical telemetry devices can operate free of harmful interference, the FCC decided to establish the WMTS. In a Report and Order released on June 12, 2000, the FCC allocated a total of 14 megahertz of spectrum to WMTS on a primary basis. At the same time, it adopted a number of regulations to ensure that the WMTS frequencies are used effectively and efficiently for their intended medical purpose. The WMTS rules took effect on October 16, 2000\nBand Plan:\n\nThe frequencies currently allocated for WMTS are divided into three blocks: the 608-614 MHz frequency band (which corresponds to UHF TV channel 37 but is not used by any TV station because it is used for radio astronomy) and the 1395-1400 MHz and 1427-1432 MHz frequency bands (both of which had been used by the Federal Government but were reallocated to the private sector under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993). The frequencies in the 1427-1432 MHz band are shared by WMTS with non-medical telemetry operations, such as utility telemetry operations, that are regulated under Part 90 of the FCC's Rules. Generally, WMTS operations are accorded primary status over non-medical telemetry operations in the 1427-1429.5 MHz band, but are treated as secondary to non-medical telemetry operations in the 1429.5-1432 MHz band. However, there are seven geographical areas in which WMTS and non-medical telemetry operations have \"flipped\" the bands in which each enjoys primary status. These seven areas, termed the \"carve-out\" areas, are (1) Pittsburgh, PA; (2) the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area; (3) Richmond/Norfolk, VA; (4) Austin/Georgetown, TX; (5) Battle Creek, MI; (6) Detroit, MI; and (7) Spokane, WA. In these seven areas, in contrast to the rest of the country, WMTS has primary status in the 1429-1431.5 MHz band, but is secondary to non-medical telemetry operations in the 1427-1429 MHz band. \n\nComments from US FDA, in part:\nBecause of concerns for interference with the present wireless medical telemetry systems, and the introduction of the WMTS, CDRH has issued a public health advisory to hospital administrators, risk managers, directors of biomedical/clinical engineering, and nursing home directors. In general, CDRH encourages manufacturers and users of medical telemetry devices to move to the new spectrum because of its protections against interference from other intentional transmitters and because frequency coordination will be provided.\n"}
