{"id": "13473570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13473570", "title": "1926 in philosophy", "text": "1926 in philosophy\n\n1926 in philosophy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "684813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684813", "title": "1973 Chilean coup d'état", "text": "1973 Chilean coup d'état\n\nThe 1973 Chilean coup d'état was a watershed moment in both the history of Chile and the Cold War. Following an extended period of social unrest and political tension between the opposition-controlled Congress of Chile and the socialist President Salvador Allende, as well as economic warfare ordered by US President Richard Nixon, Allende was overthrown by the armed forces and national police.\n\nThe military deposed Allende's Popular Unity government and later established a \"junta\" that suspended all political activity in Chile and repressed left-wing movements, especially the Communist and socialist parties and the Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR). Allende's appointed army chief, Augusto Pinochet, rose to supreme power within a year of the coup, formally assuming power in late-1974. The United States government, which had worked to create the conditions for the coup, promptly recognized the \"junta\" government and supported it in consolidating power.\n\nDuring the air raids and ground attacks that preceded the coup, Allende gave his final speech, in which he vowed to stay in the presidential palace, refusing offers of safe passage should he choose exile over confrontation. Direct witness accounts of Allende's death agree that he killed himself in the palace.\n\nBefore the coup, Chile had been hailed as a beacon of democracy and political stability for decades; whilst the rest of South America had been plagued by military juntas and Caudillismo. The collapse of Chilean democracy ended a streak of democratic governments in Chile, which had held democratic elections since 1932. Historian Peter Winn characterised the 1973 coup as one of the most violent events in the history of Chile. A weak insurgent movement against the Pinochet regime was maintained inside Chile by elements sympathetic to the former Allende government. An internationally supported plebiscite in 1988 held under the auspices of the military government was followed by a peaceful transition to an elected civilian government.\n\nAllende contested the 1970 Chilean presidential election with Jorge Alessandri Rodriguez of the National Party and Radomiro Tomic of the Christian Democratic Party. Allende received 36.6% of the vote. Alessandri was a very close second with 35.3%, and Tomic third with 28.1%. Although Allende received the highest number of votes, according to the Chilean constitution and since none of the candidates won by an absolute majority, the National Congress had to decide among the candidates.\n\nThe Chilean constitution did not allow a person to sit as president for two consecutive terms. Therefore, the incumbent president, Eduardo Frei Montalva, was ineligible as a candidate. The CIA's \"Track I\" operation was a plan to influence the Congress to choose Alessandri, who would resign after a short time in office, forcing a second election. Frei would then be eligible to run. Alessandri announced on 9 September that if Congress chose him, he would resign. Congress then decided on Allende. Soon after hearing news of his win, Allende signed a Statute of Constitutional Guarantees, which stated that he would follow the constitution during his presidency.\n\nThe U.S. feared the example of a \"well-functioning socialist experiment\" on the region and exerted diplomatic, economic, and covert pressure upon Chile's elected socialist government. At the end of 1971, the Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro made a four-week state visit to Chile, alarming Western observers worried about the \"Chilean Way to Socialism\".\n\nIn 1972, economics minister Pedro Vuskovic adopted monetary policies that increased the amount of circulating currency and devalued the escudo, which increased inflation to 140 percent in 1972 and engendered a black market economy.\n\nIn October 1972, Chile suffered the first of many strikes. Among the participants were small-scale businessmen, some professional unions, and student groups. Its leaders – Vilarín, Jaime Guzmán, Rafael Cumsille, Guillermo Elton, Eduardo Arriagada – expected to depose the elected government. Other than damaging the national economy, the principal effect of the 24-day strike was drawing Army head, Gen. Carlos Prats, into the government as Interior Minister, an appeasement to the right wing. (Gen. Prats had succeeded Army head Gen. René Schneider after his assassination on 24 October 1970 by a group led by Gen. Roberto Viaux, whom the Central Intelligence Agency had not attempted to discourage.) Gen. Prats supported the legalist Schneider Doctrine and refused military involvement in a coup d'état against President Allende.\n\nDespite the declining economy, President Allende's Popular Unity coalition increased its vote to 43.2% in the March 1973 parliamentary elections; but, by then, the informal alliance between Popular Unity and the Christian Democrats ended. The Christian Democrats allied with the right-wing National Party, who were opposed to Allende's government; the two right-wing parties formed the Confederation of Democracy (CODE). The internecine parliamentary conflict, between the legislature and the executive branch, paralyzed the activities of government. The CIA paid some U.S. $6.8–$8 million to right-wing opposition groups to \"create pressures, exploit weaknesses, magnify obstacles\" and hasten Allende's ouster.\n\nAllende began to fear his opponents, convinced they were plotting his assassination. Using his daughter as a messenger, he explained the situation to Fidel Castro. Castro gave four pieces of advice: convince technicians to stay in Chile, only sell copper for US dollars, avoid extreme revolutionary acts which would give opponents an excuse to wreck or control the economy, and maintain a proper relationship with the Chilean military until local militias could be established and consolidated. Allende attempted to follow Castro's advice, but the latter two recommendations proved difficult.\n\nPrior to the coup, the Chilean military had undergone a process of de-politicization since the 1920s, when military personnel participated in government positions. Subsequently, most military officers remained under-funded, having only subsistence salaries. Because of the low salaries the military spent much time in military leisure-time facilities (e.g. country clubs) where they met other officers and their families. The military remained apart from society, being to some degree an endogamous group as officers frequently married the sisters of their comrades or the daughters of high-ranked older officers. Many officers had also relatives in the military. In 1969 elements of the military made their first act of rebellion in 40 years when they participated in the Tacnazo. The Tacnazo was not a proper coup, but a protest against under-funding. In retrospect General Carlos Prats considered that Christian Democrats who were in power in 1969 committed the error of not taking the military's grievances seriously.\n\nGovernments of Argentina (1966), Bolivia (1969), Brazil (1964) and Peru (1968) were all overthrown in coups and replaced by military governments. In June 1973 Uruguay joined the coup d'état wave that swept through the region. The poor conditions of the Chilean military contrasted with the change of fortune the military of neighboring countries experienced as they came to power in coups.\n\nDuring the decades previous to the coup, the military became influenced by the United States' anti-communist ideology in the context of various cooperation programs including the US Army School of the Americas.\n\nOn 29 June 1973, Colonel Roberto Souper surrounded the La Moneda presidential palace with his tank regiment and failed to depose the Allende Government. That failed \"coup d’état\" – known as the \"Tanquetazo\" tank putsch – had been organized by the nationalist \"Fatherland and Liberty\" paramilitary group.\n\nIn August 1973, a constitutional crisis occurred; the Supreme Court publicly complained about the government's inability to enforce the law of the land. On 22 August, the Chamber of Deputies (with the Christian Democrats united with the National Party) accused the government of unconstitutional acts and called upon the military to enforce constitutional order.\n\nFor months, the government had feared calling upon the \"Carabineros\" national police, suspecting them of disloyalty. On 9 August, Allende appointed General Carlos Prats as Minister of Defence. He was forced to resign both as defence minister and as the Army commander-in-chief on 24 August 1973, embarrassed by the Alejandrina Cox incident and a public protest of the wives of his generals at his house. General Augusto Pinochet replaced him as Army commander-in-chief the same day. In late August 1973, 100,000 Chilean women congregated at Plaza de la Constitución to protest against the government for the rising cost and increasing shortages of food and fuels, but they were dispersed with tear gas.\n\nOn 22 August 1973, with the support of the Christian Democrats and National Party members, the Chamber of Deputies passed 81–47 a resolution that asked \"the President of the Republic, Ministers of State, and members of the Armed and Police Forces\" to \"put an immediate end\" to \"breach[es of] the Constitution . . . with the goal of redirecting government activity toward the path of Law and ensuring the Constitutional order of our Nation, and the essential underpinnings of democratic co-existence among Chileans.\"\n\nThe resolution declared that the Allende Government sought \". . . to conquer absolute power with the obvious purpose of subjecting all citizens to the strictest political and economic control by the State . . . [with] the goal of establishing a totalitarian system\", claiming it had made \"violations of the Constitution . . . a permanent system of conduct.\" Essentially, most of the accusations were about the government disregarding the separation of powers, and arrogating legislative and judicial prerogatives to the executive branch of government. Finally, the resolution condemned the \"creation and development of government-protected armed groups, which . . . are headed towards a confrontation with the armed forces\". President Allende's efforts to re-organize the military and the police forces were characterised as \"notorious attempts to use the armed and police forces for partisan ends, destroy their institutional hierarchy, and politically infiltrate their ranks\".\n\nIt can be argued that the resolution called upon the armed forces to overthrow the government if it did not comply, as follows \"...To present the President of the Republic, Ministers of State, and members of the Armed and Police Forces with the grave breakdown of the legal and constitutional order ... it is their duty to put an immediate end to all situations herein referred to that breach the Constitution and the laws of the land with the aim of redirecting government activity toward the path of Law.\"\n\nTwo days later, on 24 August 1973, President Allende responded, characterising the Congress' declaration as \"destined to damage the country’s prestige abroad and create internal confusion\", predicting \"It will facilitate the seditious intention of certain sectors\". He noted that the declaration had not obtained the two-thirds Senate majority \"constitutionally required\" to convict the president of abuse of power: essentially, the Congress was \"invoking the intervention of the armed forces and of Order against a democratically elected government\" and \"subordinat[ing] political representation of national sovereignty to the armed institutions, which neither can nor ought to assume either political functions or the representation of the popular will\".\n\nAllende argued he had obeyed constitutional means for including military men to the cabinet \"at the service of civic peace and national security, defending republican institutions against insurrection and terrorism\". In contrast, he said that Congress was promoting a \"coup d’état\" or a civil war with a declaration \"full of affirmations that had already been refuted before-hand\" and which, in substance and process (directly handing it to the ministers rather than directly handing it to the President) violated a dozen articles of the Constitution. He further argued that the legislature was usurping the government's executive function.\n\nPresident Allende wrote: \"Chilean democracy is a conquest by all of the people. It is neither the work nor the gift of the exploiting classes, and it will be defended by those who, with sacrifices accumulated over generations, have imposed it . . . With a tranquil conscience . . . I sustain that never before has Chile had a more democratic government than that over which I have the honor to preside . . . I solemnly reiterate my decision to develop democracy and a state of law to their ultimate consequences . . . Parliament has made itself a bastion against the transformations . . . and has done everything it can to perturb the functioning of the finances and of the institutions, sterilizing all creative initiatives\".\n\nAdding that economic and political means would be needed to relieve the country's current crisis, and that the Congress was obstructing said means—having already \"paralyzed\" the State—they sought to \"destroy\" it. He concluded by calling upon \"the workers, all democrats and patriots\" to join him in defending the Chilean Constitution and the \"revolutionary process\".\n\nMany people in different parts of the world immediately suspected U.S. of foul play. In early newspaper reports, the U.S. denied any involvement or previous knowledge of the coup. Prompted by an incriminating \"New York Times\" article, the U.S. Senate opened an investigation into possible U.S. interference in Chile. A report prepared by the United States Intelligence Community in 2000, at the direction of the National Intelligence Council, that echoed the Church committee, states that The report stated that the CIA \"actively supported the military Junta after the overthrow of Allende but did not assist Pinochet to assume the Presidency.\" After a review of recordings of telephone conversations between Nixon and Henry Kissinger, Robert Dallek concluded that both of them used the CIA to actively destabilize the Allende government. In one particular conversation about the news of Allende's overthrow, Kissinger complains about the lack of recognition of the American role in the overthrow of a \"communist\" government, upon which Nixon remarked, \"Well, we didn't – as you know – our hand doesn't show on this one.\". A later CIA report contended that US agents maintained close ties with the Chilean military to collect intelligence but no effort was made to assist them and \"under no circumstances attempted to influence them.\"\n\nHistorian Peter Winn found \"extensive evidence\" of United States complicity in the coup. He states that its covert support was crucial to engineering the coup, as well as for the consolidation of power by the Pinochet regime following the takeover. Winn documents an extensive CIA operation to fabricate reports of a coup against Allende, as justification for the imposition of military rule. Peter Kornbluh asserts that the CIA destabilized Chile and helped create the conditions for the coup, citing documents declassified by the Clinton administration. Other authors point to the involvement of the Defense Intelligence Agency, agents of which allegedly secured the missiles used to bombard the La Moneda Palace.\n\nThe U.S. Government's hostility to the election of Allende in Chile was substantiated in documents declassified during the Clinton administration, which show that CIA covert operatives were inserted in Chile in order to prevent a Marxist government from arising and for the purpose of spreading anti-Allende propaganda. As described in the Church Committee report, the CIA was involved in multiple plots designed to remove Allende and then let the Chileans vote in a new election where he would not be a candidate. The first, non-military, approach involved attempting a constitutional coup. This was known as the Track I approach, in which the CIA, with the approval of the 40 Committee, attempted to bribe the Chilean legislature, tried to influence public opinion against Allende, and provided funding to strikes designed to coerce him into resigning. It also attempted to get congress to confirm Jorge Alessandri as the winner of the presidential election. Alessandri, who was an accessory to the conspiracy, was ready to then resign and call for fresh elections.\n\nThe other approach of the CIA, also known as the Track II approach, was an attempt to encourage a military coup by creating a climate of crisis across the country. False flag operatives contacted senior Chilean military officers and informed them that the U.S. would actively support a coup, but would revoke all military aid if such a coup did not happen. In addition, the CIA gave extensive support for black propaganda against Allende, channeled mostly through \"El Mercurio\". Financial assistance was also given to Allende's political opponents, and for organizing strikes and unrest to destabilize the government. By 1970, the U.S. manufacturing company ITT Corporation owned 70% of Chitelco (the Chilean Telephone Company), and also funded \"El Mercurio\". The CIA used ITT as a means of disguising the source of the illegitimate funding Allende's opponents received. On 28 September 1973, ITT's headquarters in New York City was bombed, allegedly for its involvement in Allende's overthrow.\n\nAn Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS) station was established in Chile out of the Australian embassy in July 1971 at the request of the CIA and authorised by then Liberal Party Foreign Minister William McMahon. Newly-elected Labor Prime Minister Gough Whitlam was informed of the operation in February 1973 and signed a document ordering the closure of the operation several weeks later. It appears, however, the last ASIS agent did not leave Chile until October 1973, one month after the CIA-backed coup d'état had brought down the Allende Government. There were also two officers of Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO), Australia's internal security service, who were based in Santiago working as migration officers during this period. The failure of timely closure of Australia's covert operations was one of the reasons for the sacking of the Director of ASIS on 21 October 1975. This took effect on 7 November, just four days before Prime Minister's Whitlam's own dismissal in the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis with allegations of CIA political interference.\n\nBy 7:00 am on the 11th of September 1973, a date chosen to match the historical coup of September 11th, 1924, the Navy captured Valparaíso, strategically stationing ships and marine infantry in the central coast and closed radio and television networks. The Province Prefect informed President Allende of the Navy's actions; immediately, the president went to the presidential palace with his bodyguards, the \"Group of Personal Friends\" (GAP). By 8:00 am, the Army had closed most radio and television stations in Santiago city; the Air Force bombed the remaining active stations; the President received incomplete information, and was convinced that only a sector of the Navy conspired against him and his government.\n\nPresident Allende and Defence minister Orlando Letelier were unable to communicate with military leaders. Admiral Montero, the Navy's commander and an Allende loyalist, was rendered incommunicado; his telephone service was cut and his cars were sabotaged before the \"coup d’état\", to ensure he could not thwart the opposition. Leadership of the Navy was transferred to José Toribio Merino, planner of the \"coup d’état\" and executive officer to Adm. Montero. Augusto Pinochet, General of the Army, and Gustavo Leigh, General of the Air Force, did not answer Allende's telephone calls to them. The General Director of the \"Carabineros\" (uniformed police), José María Sepúlveda, and the head of the Investigations Police (plain clothes detectives), Alfredo Joignant answered Allende's calls and immediately went to the \"La Moneda\" presidential palace. When Defence minister Letelier arrived at the Ministry of Defense, controlled by Adm. Patricio Carvajal, he was arrested as the first prisoner of the \"coup d’état\".\n\nDespite evidence that all branches of the Chilean armed forces were involved in the coup, Allende hoped that some units remained loyal to the government. Allende was convinced of Pinochet's loyalty, telling a reporter that the \"coup d’état\" leaders must have imprisoned the general. Only at 8:30 am, when the armed forces declared their control of Chile and that Allende was deposed, did the president grasp the magnitude of the military's rebellion. Despite the lack of any military support, Allende refused to resign his office.\n\nAt approx. 9:00 the carabineros of the La Moneda left the building.\nBy 9:00 am, the armed forces controlled Chile, except for the city centre of the capital, Santiago. Allende refused to surrender, despite the military's declaring they would bomb the \"La Moneda\" presidential palace if he resisted being deposed. The Socialist Party along with his Cuban advisors proposed to Allende that he escape to the San Joaquín industrial zone in southern Santiago, to later re-group and lead a counter-\"coup d’état\"; the president rejected the proposition. According to Tanya Harmer, Allende's refusal to lead an insurgency against the coup is evidence of his unrelenting desire to bring about change through non-violent methods. The military attempted negotiations with Allende, but the President refused to resign, citing his constitutional duty to remain in office. Finally, Allende gave a , telling the nation of the \"coup d’état\" and his refusal to resign his elected office under threat.\n\nLeigh ordered the presidential palace bombed, but was told the Air Force's Hawker Hunter jet aircraft would take forty minutes to arrive. Pinochet ordered an armoured and infantry force under General Sergio Arellano to advance upon the \"La Moneda\" presidential palace. When the troops moved forward, they were forced to retreat after coming under fire from GAP snipers perched on rooftops. General Arellano called for helicopter gunship support from the commander of the Chilean Army Puma helicopter squadron and the troops were able to advance again. Chilean Air Force aircraft soon arrived to provide close air support for the assault (by bombing the Palace), but the defenders did not surrender until nearly 2:30 pm. First reports said the 65-year-old president had died fighting troops, but later police sources reported he had committed suicide.\n\nIn the first months after the \"coup d’état,\" the military killed thousands of Chilean leftists, both real and suspected, or forced their \"disappearance\". The military imprisoned 40,000 political enemies in the National Stadium of Chile; among the tortured and killed \"desaparecidos\" (disappeared) were the U.S. citizens Charles Horman, and Frank Teruggi. In October 1973, the Chilean songwriter Víctor Jara, and 70 other political killings were perpetrated by the death squad, Caravan of Death (\"Caravana de la Muerte\").\n\nThe government arrested some 130,000 people in a three-year period; the dead and disappeared numbered thousands in the first months of the military government. Those include the British physician Sheila Cassidy, who survived to publicize to the UK the human rights violations in Chile. Among those detained was Alberto Bachelet (father of future Chilean President Michelle Bachelet), an Air Force official; he was tortured and died on 12 March 1974, the right-wing newspaper, \"El Mercurio\" (The Mercury), reported that Mr Bachelet died after a basketball game, citing his poor cardiac health. Michelle Bachelet and her mother were imprisoned and tortured in the Villa Grimaldi detention and torture centre on 10 January 1975.\n\nAfter Gen. Pinochet lost the election in the 1988 plebiscite, the Rettig Commission, a multi-partisan truth commission, in 1991 reported the location of torture and detention centers, among others, Colonia Dignidad, the tall ship \"Esmeralda\" and Víctor Jara Stadium. Later, in November 2004, the Valech Report confirmed the number as less than 3,000 killed, and reduced the number of cases of forced disappearance; but some 28,000 people were arrested, imprisoned, and tortured.\nSixty individuals died as a direct result of fighting on 11 September, although the MIR and GAP continued to fight the following day. In all, 46 of Allende's guard (the GAP, \"Grupo de Amigos Personales\") were killed, some of them in combat with the soldiers that took the Moneda. Allende's Cuban-trained guard would have had about 300 elite commando-trained GAP fighters at the time of the coup, but the use of brute military force, especially the use of Hawker Hunters, may have handicapped many GAP fighters from further action.\n\nAccording to official reports prepared after the return of democracy, at La Moneda only two people died: President Allende and the journalist Augusto Olivares (both by suicide). Two more were injured, Antonio Aguirre and Osvaldo Ramos, both members of President Allende's entourage; they would later be allegedly kidnapped from the hospital and disappeared. In November 2006, the Associated Press noted that more than 15 bodyguards and aides were taken from the palace during the coup and are still unaccounted for; in 2006 Augusto Pinochet was indicted for two of their deaths.\n\nOn the military side, there were 34 deaths: two army sergeants, three army corporals, four army privates, 2 navy lieutenants, 1 navy corporal, 4 naval cadets, 3 navy conscripts and 15 carabineros. In mid-September, the Chilean military junta claimed its troops suffered another 16 dead and 100 injured by gunfire in mopping-up operations against Allende supporters, and Pinochet said: \"sadly there are still some armed groups who insist on attacking, which means that the military rules of wartime apply to them.\" A press photographer also died in the crossfire while attempting to cover the event. On 23 October 1973, 23-year-old army corporal Benjamín Alfredo Jaramillo Ruz, who was serving with the \"Cazadores\", became the first fatal casualty of the counterinsurgency operations in the mountainous area of Alquihue in Valdivia after being shot by a sniper. The Chilean Army suffered 12 killed in various clashes with MIR guerrillas and GAP fighters in October 1973.\n\nWhile fatalities in the battle during the coup might have been relatively small, the Chilean security forces sustained 162 dead in the three following months as a result of continued resistance, and tens of thousands of people were arrested during the coup and held in the National Stadium. This was because the plans for the coup called for the arrest of every man, woman and child on the streets the morning of 11 September. Of these approximately 40,000 to 50,000 perfunctory arrests, several hundred individuals would later be detained, questioned, tortured, and in some cases murdered. While these deaths did not occur before the surrender of Allende's forces, they occurred as a direct result of arrests and round-ups during the coup's military action.\n\nPresident Allende died in La Moneda during the coup. The junta officially declared that he committed suicide with a rifle given to him by Fidel Castro, two doctors from the infirmary of La Moneda stated that they witnessed the suicide, and an autopsy labelled Allende's death a suicide. Vice Admiral Patricio Carvajal, one of the primary instigators of the coup, claimed that \"Allende committed suicide and is dead now.\" Patricio Guijon, one of the president's doctors, had testified to witnessing Allende shoot himself under the chin with the rifle while seated on a sofa.\n\nAt the time, few of Allende's supporters believed the explanation that Allende had killed himself. Allende's body was exhumed in May 2011. The exhumation was requested by members of the Allende family, including his daughter Isabel who viewed the question of her father's death as \"an insult to scientific intelligence.\" A scientific autopsy was performed and the autopsy team delivered a unanimous finding on 19 July 2011 that Allende committed suicide using an AK-47 rifle. The team was composed of international forensic experts to assure an independent evaluation.\n\nHowever, on 31 May 2011, Chile's state television station reported that a top-secret military account of Allende's death had been discovered in the home of a former military justice official. The 300-page document was only found when the house was destroyed in the 2010 Chilean earthquake. After reviewing the report, two forensic experts told Televisión Nacional de Chile \"that they are inclined to conclude that Allende was assassinated.\" Two forensics experts said they believed he was shot with a small-calibre weapon prior to the AK-47. One expert, Luis Ravanal, noted the lack of blood on his collar, sweater and throat suggested someone else fired the AK-47 when he was already dead.\n\nAllende's widow and family escaped the military government and were accepted for exile in Mexico, where they remained for 17 years.\n\nOn 13 September, the Junta dissolved Congress. At the same time, it outlawed the parties that had been part of the Popular Unity coalition, and all political activity was declared \"in recess\".\n\nThe military government took control of all media including the radio broadcasting that Allende attempted to use to give his final speech to the nation. It is not known how many Chileans actually heard the last words of Allende as he spoke them, but a transcript and audio of the speech survived the military government. Chilean scholar Lidia M. Baltra details how the military took control of the media platforms and turned them into their own \"propaganda machine.\" The only two newspapers that were allowed to continue publishing after the military takeover were \"El Mercurio\" and \"La Tercera de la Hora\", both of which were anti-Allende under his leadership. The dictatorship's silencing of the leftist point of view extended past the media and into \"every discourse that expressed any resistance to the regime.\" An example of this is the torturing and death of folk singer Victor Jara. The military government detained Jara in the days following the coup. He, along with many other leftists, was held in Estadio Nacional, or the National Stadium of Chile in the capital of Santiago. Initially, the Junta tried to silence him by crushing his hands but ultimately he was murdered. Immediately after the coup the military sought after television host Don Francisco to have him report on the events. Don Francisco declined the offer encouraging the captain that had approached him to take the role of reporter himself.\n\nInitially, there were four leaders of the junta: In addition to General Augusto Pinochet, from the Army, there were General Gustavo Leigh Guzmán, of the Air Force; Admiral José Toribio Merino Castro, of the Navy (who replaced Constitutionalist Admiral Raúl Montero); and General Director César Mendoza Durán, of the National Police (\"Carabineros de Chile\") (who replaced Constitutionalist General Director José María Sepúlveda). Coup leaders soon decided against a rotating presidency and named General Pinochet permanent head of the junta.\n\nIn the months that followed the coup, the \"junta\", with authoring work by historian Gonzalo Vial and admiral Patricio Carvajal, published a book titled \"El Libro Blanco del cambio de gobierno en Chile\" (commonly known as \"El Libro Blanco\", \"The White Book of the Change of Government in Chile\"), where they attempted to justify the coup by claiming that they were in fact anticipating a self-coup (the alleged \"Plan Zeta\", or Plan Z) that Allende's government or its associates were purportedly preparing. Historian Peter Winn states that the Central Intelligence Agency had an extensive part to play in fabricating the conspiracy and in selling it to the press, both in Chile and internationally. Although later discredited and officially recognized as the product of political propaganda, some Chilean historians pointed to the similarities between the alleged Plan Z and other existing paramilitary plans of the Popular Unity parties in support of its legitimacy.\n\nThe newspaper \"La Tercera\" published on its front page a photograph showing prisoners at the Quiriquina Island Camp who had been captured during the fighting in Concepción. The photograph's caption stated that some of the detained were local leaders of the \"Unidad Popular\" while others were \"extremists who had attacked the armed forces with firearms\". The photo is reproduced in Docuscanner. This is consistent with reports in newspapers and broadcasts in Concepción about the activities of the Armed Forces, which mentioned clashes with \"extremists\" on several occasions from 11 to 14 September. Nocturnal skirmishes took place around the Hotel Alonso De Ercilla in Colo Colo and San Martino Street, one block away from the Army and military police administrative headquarters. A recently published testimony about the clashes in Concepcion offers several plausible explanations for the reticence of witnesses to these actions.\n\nBesides political leaders and participants, the coup also affected many everyday Chilean citizens. Thousands were killed, went missing, and were injured. Because of the political instability in their country, many relocated elsewhere. Canada, among other countries, became a main point of refuge for many Chilean citizens. Through an operation known as “Special Movement Chile”, more than 7,000 Chileans were relocated to Canada in the months following September 11, 1973. These refugees are now known as Chilean Canadian people and have a population of over 38,000.\n\nThe U.S. view of the coup continues to spark controversy. Beginning in late 2014 in response to a request by then Senate Armed Services Committee Chair Carl Levin, United States Southern Command (USSOUTHCOM) William J. Perry Center for Hemispheric Defense Studies (CHDS), located at the National Defense University in Washington, D.C., has been under investigation by the Department of Defense Office of Inspector General. Insider national security whistleblower complaints included that the Center knowingly protected a CHDS professor from Chile who was a former top advisor to Pinochet after belonging to the Dirección de Inteligencia Nacional / DINA state terrorist organization (whose attack against a former Chilean foreign minister in 1976 in Washington, D.C. resulted in two deaths, including that of an American). “Reports that NDU hired foreign military officers with histories of involvement in human rights abuses, including torture and extra-judicial killings of civilians, are stunning, and they are repulsive,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont, the author of the “Leahy Law” prohibiting U.S. assistance to military units and members of foreign security forces that violate human rights.\n\nRoberto Theime, the military leader of Fatherland and Liberty, who was imprisoned on September 11 was shocked to hear about the degree of violence the coup was carried out with. Despite being an arduous opponent of Unidad Popular he had expected a cleaner coup.\n\nPresident of Argentina Juan Domingo Perón condemned the coup calling it a \"fatality for the continent\". Before the coup Perón had warned the more radical of his followers to stay calm and \"not do as Allende\". Argentine students protested the coup at the Chilean embassy in Buenos Aires, where part of them chanted that they were \"available to cross the Andes\" (\"dispuestos a cruzar la cordillera\").\n\nThe commemoration of the coup is associated to competing narratives on its cause and effects. The coup has been commemorated by detractors and supporters in various ways.\n\nOn September 11 of 1975 Pinochet lit the Llama de la Libertad (lit. Flame of Liberty) to commemorate the coup. This flame was extinguished in 2004. Avenida Nueva Providencia in Providencia, Santiago, was renamed Avenida 11 de Septiembre in 1980. In the 30th anniversary of the coup President Ricardo Lagos inaugurated the Morandé 80 entrance to La Moneda. This entrance to the presidential palace had been erased during the repairs the dictatorship did to the building after the bombing.\n\nThe 40th anniversary of the coup in 2013 was particularly intense. That year the name of Avenida 11 de Septiembre was reversed to the original Avenida Nueva Providencia. The Association of Chilean Magistrates issued a public statement in early September 2013 recognizing the past unwillingness of judges to protect those persecuted by dictatorship. On September 11, 2013 hundreds of Chileans posed as dead in the streets of Santiago in remembrance of the ones \"disappeared\" by the dictatorship.\n\nThe centre-left opposition refused to attend the commemoration event organized by Sebastián Piñera's right-wing government organizing instead a separate event. Osvaldo Andrade of the Socialist Party explained that attendance was not viable as Piñera's government was \"packed with passive accomplices\" of the dictatorship. Some right-wing politicians also declined the invitation. President candidate Michelle Bachelet planned to spend the day visiting Museum of Memory and Human Rights and commented that \"it is not fair to talk about the coup as something unavoidable\". President Piñera held an unusual speech in which he denounced \"passive accomplices\" like news reporters who deliberately changed or omitted the truth and judges who rejected recursos de amparos that could have saved lives. People who knew things or could have known things but decided to stay quiet were also criticized as passive accomplices in Piñera's speech.\n\nA number of new films, theatre plays, and photography expositions were held to cast light on the abuses and censorship of the dictatorship. The number of new books published on the subject in 2013 was such that it constituted an editorial boom. The Museum of Memory and Human Rights also displayed a collection of declassified CIA, FBI, Defense Department, and White House records illustrating the U.S. role in the dictatorship and the coup. Conferences and seminaries on the subject of coup were also held. Various series and interviews with politicians on the subject of the coup and the dictatorship were aired on Chilean TV in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24159240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24159240", "title": "1996 World Monuments Watch", "text": "1996 World Monuments Watch\n\nThe World Monuments Watch is a flagship advocacy program of the New York-based private non-profit organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) and American Express aimed at identifying and preserving the world’s most important endangered cultural landmarks. It targets selected sites for immediate action, to call attention to the need for innovative approaches to protect threatened sites throughout the world.\n\nEvery two years, the program publishes a select list known as the Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites that is in urgent need of preservation funding and protection. The sites are nominated by governments, private organizations active in the field of heritage conservation, and concerned individuals. An independent panel of international experts then convene to evaluate and select 100 candidates from these entries to be part of the Watch List, based on the significance of the urgency of its situation, the viability of proposed remedies, and the site's overall significance. WMF and American Express award grants to sites included on the Watch List through the WMF Fund, which is composed of donations from corporate, individual and foundation sponsors. These grants are meant to support activities such as strategic planning, emergency and technical assistance, educational and local fund raising programs, and conservation treatment.\n\nThe 1996 World Monuments Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites was launched on August 4, 1995.\n\nThe following countries/territories have multiple sites entered on the 1996 Watch List, listed by the number of sites:\n\nA. Numbers list only meant as a guide on this article. No official reference numbers have been designated for the sites on the Watch List.<br>\nB. Names and spellings used for the sites were based on the official 1996 Watch List as published.<br>\nC. The references to the sites' locations were based on the official 1996 Watch List as published.\n"}
{"id": "31458654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31458654", "title": "2nd World Congress of the Comintern", "text": "2nd World Congress of the Comintern\n\nThe 2nd World Congress of the Comintern was a gathering of approximately 220 voting and non-voting representatives of Communist and revolutionary socialist political parties from around the world, held in Petrograd and Moscow from July 19 to August 7, 1920. The 2nd Congress is best remembered for formulating and implementing the 21 Conditions for membership in the Communist International.\nThe 2nd World Congress of the Communist International, held in the summer of 1920, has been regarded by scholars as \"the first authentic international meeting of the new organization's members and supporters,\" owing to the ad hoc nature of the 1919 Founding Convention. The gathering is also significant for the level of participation of Soviet leader Vladimir Lenin, who participated in the affairs of the gathering more intensely than at any other, preparing a host of key documents and actively helping to chart the gathering's course.\n\nThe 2nd World Congress took place at a time of heated world political passion, as British historian E.H. Carr later recalled:\n\n\"The second congress marked the crowning moment in the history of the Comintern as an international force, the moment when the Russian revolution seemed most certainly on the point of transforming itself into a European revolution, with the destinies of the RSFSR merged in those of some broader European unit.\"\n\nWhereas in 1919 no mass Socialist party had participated in the activities of the Founding Convention, the 1920 gathering saw the inclusion of credentialed delegates from several large European groups, including the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD), the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO), and the Social Democratic Party of Czechoslovakia. The Bolsheviks denied permission to attend to the recently formed (January 1920) Ukrainian Communist Party (CPU). \n\nIt was at the 2nd World Congress that the nature of Communist parties was decided upon, the conditions for their admission to the Communist International set, and the relationship of the national organizations to their international directing center formally established for the first time.\n\nThe official records of the 2nd World Congress indicate that a total of 218 delegates participated in the proceedings, including 54 representatives of Socialist, Social Democratic, and other non-Communist political parties and 12 representatives of youth organizations. At least 30 delegates were representatives of the various nationalities of Asia.\n\nDelegates were housed in Moscow at the Delevoi Dvor, a hotel a short walk from the Congress's sessions held at the Kremlin. With food in short supply, fare provided to the delegates was poor, with some delegates forced to rely to some extent upon stores brought into the country with them.\n\nUpon arriving at their hotel rooms, delegates were provided with an assortment of written reports, draft resolutions, and copies of two recently published books — \"Terrorism and Communism\" by Leon Trotsky and \"\"\" by V.I. Lenin.\n\nDelegates participated a wide range of events, touring the country, attending shop meetings, watching theatrical performances, and participating in a subbotnik loading railroad ties.\n\nOn April 22, 1920, the Executive Committee of the Communist International (ECCI) voted to hold a 2nd World Congress of its member parties at some indefinite date in the near future. This was followed on June 14, 1920, by the formal publication by ECCI of a call for a 2nd World Congress to be held in Moscow one month hence. Political parties pledging allegiance to the organization were urged to send delegations at once.\n\nDuring this period Soviet Russia was subject to an armed blockade by land and sea, making travel extremely difficult. Legal passage was possible only through the Estonian port of Revel (known today as Tallinn), but even this means was difficult due to the systematic denial of travel passports to radicals intending on traveling to Central Europe.\n\nWar between Soviet Russia and Poland raged in the summer of 1920 and wrecked locomotives and derailed freight cars lined the tracks, further complicating the transportation situation.\n\nSome delegates were forced by circumstances to use false passports and identity documents or to travel without any legal documentation whatsoever, such as by stowing away on a ship. Three French delegates lost their lives in transit, when a small fishing boat setting sail from Murmansk in an attempt to run the Allied blockade went down in stormy weather.\n\nThe Congress was scheduled to open on July 15, but owing to rampant transit difficulties, many delegates had not arrived in Soviet Russia by that date. ECCI decided to postpone the first working sessions by one week.\n\nFollowing a meal in the Great Hall of Smolny, the delegates, accompanied by thousands of Petrograd workers, marched to the Uritsky Theater where they heard a keynote address on the international situation and the tasks of the Comintern delivered by Lenin. Afterwards the delegates participated in a mass demonstration before gathering at the former stock exchange to see a costume drama called \"Spectacle of the Two Worlds\" performed by a cast of 3,000.\n\nFollowing the opening festivities in Petrograd, a three-day break followed, after which the Congress reconvened in Moscow in the former Vladimir Throne Room of the Kremlin. Four official languages were used at the convention — English, French, German, and Russian — with secretaries typing convention documents in each. The primary languages spoken on the floor were French and German, with simultaneous translations taking place in various corners of the room.\n\nThe Congress elected a Bureau (governing committee) to make decisions about procedure. All delegates had the right to submit resolution proposals to the Congress and the privilege was not an empty one, as a number of such proposals were submitted.\n\nVoting delegates were provided with red cards, non-voting \"consultative\" delegates blue cards, and guests green cards, with votes taken by means of counting cards. Voting strength of each delegation was based upon the relative importance of each national party to the international communist movement rather than the actual size of the membership of these groups. At no point in the Congress was a roll call vote taken; rather, a simple counting of cards raised on the floor determined all outcomes.\n\nThe 2nd World Congress began its actual work on July 23, 1920. Two sessions were dedicated to discussion of the structure and role of Communist parties, with a summary report and theses delivered to the body by Comintern Chairman Grigorii Zinoviev. After Zinoviev's theses on the matter were unanimously adopted by the assembled delegates, debate moved to conditions for admission to the Communist International, a discussion which ultimately produced a document known as the 21 Conditions.\n\nEver since the founding of the Comintern in 1919, a number of political parties in the Social Democratic tradition — including the Socialist Party of America (SPA) and the Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD) — had sought admission into the ranks of the international organization. To the Comintern leadership, the electoral orientation and pacifism of such organizations marked them as fundamentally different from the Communist movement and its orientation towards armed struggle and saw the Comintern as a mechanism for the centralized coordination of such efforts around the world.\n\nSuch so-called \"Centrist\" parties, with the German USPD in the first rank, sought a more inclusive and advisory role for the Comintern, in line with the model utilized by the ill-fated Second International. The four delegates of the USPD remained united before the session of the 2nd Congress's Commission on Conditions for Admission.\n\nOn July 25, the Commission on Conditions for Admission voted 5-3 on a proposal by Lenin that only parties with a clear majority on their governing Central Committee favoring affiliation to the Comintern prior to the 2nd World Congress would be permitted membership in that organization. Subsequent debate by the Congress itself on July 29 and 30 urged against any concessions to so-called \"Centrist\" leaders. Following extended commission discussions, a set of 21 Conditions for admission to the Comintern was proposed.\n\nThe 2nd World Congress dealt extensively with the relationship between the trade union movement and the emerging international communist movement. Left-wing communists were scornful of the \"conservative\" nature of the established union movement in many counties, exemplified by the American Federation of Labor in the United States and the reformist International Federation of Trade Unions, based in Amsterdam. The limited horizons of such organizations, limited to matters of daily concern as wages, hours, and working conditions, were seen as a manifestation of class collaboration and an impediment to the revolutionary transformation of society.\n\nThe left-wing communists argued that these unions were a by-product of capitalism and that they, like the political parties of the Second International, had betrayed the working class by supporting their national governments in World War I — seen as a war of imperial conquest. Such unions were worthy only of expeditious destruction, the left-wing communists believed.\n\nLenin and other Comintern leaders disagreed sharply with the demand of the left-wing communists that new explicitly revolutionary dual unions should be established and supported, arguing the 25 million workers participating in unions affiliated with the Amsterdam International had already made their basic organizational decision. Instead, Lenin and his co-thinkers argued, radical workers should remain within these established unions and to attempt to work from within to move them onto a revolutionary course.\n\nAt the same time the Comintern leadership had already been working to establish a new revolutionary international union organization to compete with the Amsterdam International — a goal which the left-wing communists saw as contradictory with the policy of remaining within the established \"conservative\" unions. Meetings between Comintern officials and trade union leaders in Moscow in the summer of 1920 had led to the establishment of the International Council of Trade and Industrial Unions (Mezhsovprof), forerunner of the Red International of Labor Unions (Profintern) that was established the next year.\n\nThe union question remained a matter of heated contention at the 2nd World Congress, with the representatives of the British shop stewards' movement and syndicalist delegates from Germany and the United States refusing to abandon their hostility to the strategy of \"boring from within\" the established unions. Ultimately, the majority of the 2nd World Congress moved to support Lenin's policy, detailed at length in his recently published book \"\"Left-Wing\" Communism: An Infantile Disorder.\"\n\nThe 2nd World Congress also for the first time paid serious attention to the national liberation movements of the colonies of Asia, Africa, and the Americas. Theses on colonial issues were presented to the Congress by Indian radical M.N. Roy, formally a delegate from the fledgling Communist Party of Mexico, Avetis Sultan-Zade of Persia, and Pak Chin-sun of Korea.\n\nThe final resolution of the Congress directed communists in colonial countries to support the \"national-revolutionary\" movement in each, without regard to the fact that non-communist and non-working class elements such as the bourgeoisie and the peasantry might be dominant. Particular attention was paid to formulating an alliance with the rural poor as a means of winning and holding power in a revolution.\n\nThere were several cultural and sports activities arranged to accompany the second congress:\nHistorian E.H. Carr has argued that the 2nd World Congress — to some extent unintentionally and unconsciously — was the first to \"establish Russian leadership of Comintern on an impregnable basis.\" In addition to the esteem accorded the Russians as practitioners of the first successful Marxist revolution, Carr noted that the Russian delegation \"invariably spoke with a united voice,\" in sharp contrast to the contentious and divided delegations from Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, and the United States. Therefore, \"the Communist International which would make the world revolution was created in the image of the party which had made the Russian revolution,\" Carr observed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47220093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47220093", "title": "Access economy", "text": "Access economy\n\nThe access economy is a business model where goods and services are traded on the basis of access rather than ownership: it refers to renting things temporarily rather than selling them permanently. The term arose as a correction to the term sharing economy, because major players in the sharing economy, such as Airbnb, Zipcar, and Uber, are commercial enterprises whose businesses do not involve any sharing.\n\nThis model uses a technology platform, often accessed via mobile phone, to connect suppliers willing to rent assets (e.g., apartments for rent or cars for transportation services) with consumers. This movement was worth around $26 billion a year in 2015.\n\nThe number of persons involved in the access economy is not easily measured. The \"access economy\" or \"on-demand economy\" poses regulatory and political challenges, such as: defining the nature of the employment relationship; designing regulations to safeguard parties to these transactions; the loss of taxes and corporate access that results from moving away from small locally owned companies to large remote technology companies; and the bypassing of local regulations (such as the requirement for taxi drivers to provide wheelchair vans or provide drivers 24-7).\n\nCompanies such as Uber and Airbnb provide technology that connects suppliers willing to rent their assets to consumers interested in temporarily using those assets. For example, owners of real estate may offer an apartment or bedroom for rent on a weekly basis, or the owner of a car may offer taxi-like services. Mobile phone applications are the typical platform that connects the consumers and suppliers.\n\nAs an economic model, the access economy suggests that \"access\" to goods and services may become more desirable than \"ownership\" of them. Steve Denning notes:\nThe third thing that the Internet did was social. It created a generation of people who began doing something that cut to the heart of the way society has been organized for several hundred years. These people—mainly young—began preferring access to ownership. Instead of planning their lives on the premise of acquiring and owning more private property, this new generation began finding meaning and satisfaction in having access to things and interacting with other people in the process.\n\nThe \"Harvard Business Review\" has argued that it's important for businesses in this space to think of themselves as being in an access economy. In a 2015 article called \"The Sharing Economy Isn't About Sharing at All\", authors Giana M. Eckhardt and Fleura Bardhi write, This insight − that it is an access economy rather than a sharing economy – has important implications for how companies in this space compete. It implies that consumers are more interested in lower costs and convenience than they are in fostering social relationships with the company or other consumers.The article goes on to argue that a major difference between Uber and its competitor Lyft is that Uber understands the difference: \"Uber positions itself squarely around its pricing, reliability, and convenience\" with their tagline as being \"Better, faster and cheaper than a taxi\", while the tagline of the much-less-successful Lyft is, \"We're your friend with a car.\"\nIn essence, Eckhardt and Bardhi concludes that:\nThe access economy is changing the structure of a variety of industries, and a new understanding of the consumer is needed to drive successful business models. A successful business model in the access economy will not be based on community, however, as a sharing orientation does not accurately depict the benefits consumers hope to receive. It is important to highlight the benefits that access provides in contrast to the disadvantages of ownership and sharing.\n\nThe business model of companies situated in the gig economy introduces a different employment concept compared to traditional employment structures. While in traditional industries workers enjoy the benefits of unionisation, healthcare provision, and employee rights with regard to minimum wage, contract termination and working hours, employees within the access economy are perceived as freelancers. These people do not receive pension benefits or other employee rights and benefits and are often not paid on an hourly basis.\n\nA 2016 study by the McKinsey Global Institute concluded that, across America and England, there were a total of 162 million people that were involved in some type of independent work. Moreover, their payment scheme is linked to the gigs they perform, which could be deliveries, rentals or other services. However, recent legal rulings indicated that there is an emerging trend to classify full-time freelancers working for a single main employer of the gig economy as workers and to award them regular worker rights and protection. A popular example is the ruling against Uber in October 2016, which supported the claim of two Uber drivers to be classified as workers and to receive the related worker rights and benefits. However, Uber was granted the right to appeal this claim and a final ruling is expected to be drawn in September 2017.\n\nIt is important to distinguish employment in the access economy from employment through zero-hour contracts. Employment in the gig economy entails receiving compensation for one key performance indicator, which, for example, is defined as parcels delivered or taxi lifts conducted. Another feature is that employees can opt to refuse taking an order. Although employers do not have to guarantee employment or employees can also refuse to take an order under a zero-hour contract, workers under such a contract are paid by the hour and not directly through business-related indicators as in the case of the gig economy.\n\nThe access economy has affected both genders of the population in numerous ways (some negative, some positive). For women, the access economy provides flexibility. This has led women to have quickly outnumbered the number of men in this economy. This career path has allowed mothers to continue with their families while having the ability to work. For men, one effect that was found was that the gig economy gave them more advantages. Men have gained power in the sense that even in the access economy they are still hired more, paid higher wages, and treated better than women in the workplace. Sexism gives men the advantage, allowing them to acquire customers who are more understanding and respect.\n\nThe elderly have also found pros and cons to the access economy. The future of retirement savings are being endangered by the gig-economy. An article by CNBC states that only 16% of independent workers have a retirement savings plan. On the flip side, there are seniors who are earning, according to JPMorgan Chase Institute, an average of $40,000. The percentage of seniors has increased throughout the years from 20.7 percent in 2009 to 23.1 percent in 2015.\n\nThere are many related concepts and alternate names currently being used for the access economy. They include:\n\nThe validity of the term \"sharing economy\" is disputed. For example, both Uber and taxi companies provide access to cars that are not owned by the passenger; the real difference is that taxis are a mature industry that pay living wages and abide by local regulations (such as to ensure that there is always a wheelchair van available), while Uber and its ilk are a new industry that is exploiting the lack of regulations that affect it. Michael Bauwens notes that companies such as Uber aren't operating by a peer-to-peer structure, saying:\nA \"sharing economy,\" by definition, is lateral in structure. It is a peer-to-peer economy. But Uber, as its name suggests, is hierarchical in structure. It monitors and controls its drivers, demanding that they purchase services from it while guiding their movements and determining their level of earnings. And its pricing mechanisms impose unpredictable costs on its customers, extracting greater amounts whenever the data suggests customers can be compelled to pay them. This is a top-down economy, not a \"shared\" one.\n\nThe impacts of the access economy in terms of costs, wages and employment are not easily measured and appear to be growing. Various estimates indicate that 30-40% of the U.S. workforce is self-employed, part-time, temporary or freelancers. However, the exact percentage of those performing short-term tasks or projects found via technology platforms was not effectively measured as of 2015 by government sources. In the U.S., one private industry survey placed the number of \"full-time independent workers\" at 17.8 million in 2015, roughly the same as 2014. Another survey estimated the number of workers who do at least some freelance work at 53.7 million in 2015, roughly 34% of the workforce and up slightly from 2014.\n\nEconomists Lawrence F. Katz and Alan B. Krueger wrote in March 2016 that there is a trend towards more workers in alternative (part-time or contract) work arrangements rather than full-time; the percentage of workers in such arrangements rose from 10.1% in 2005 to 15.8% in late 2015. Katz and Krueger defined alternative work arrangements as \"temporary help agency workers, on-call workers, contract company workers, and independent contractors or free-lancers\". They also estimated that approximately 0.5% of all workers identify customers through an online intermediary; this was consistent with two others studies that estimated the amount at 0.4% and 0.6%.\n\nAt the individual transaction level, the removal of a higher overhead business intermediary (say a taxi company) with a lower cost technology platform helps reduce the cost of the transaction for the customer while also providing an opportunity for additional suppliers to compete for the business, further reducing costs. Consumers can then spend more on other goods and services, stimulating demand and production in other parts of the economy. Classical economics argues that innovation that lowers the cost of goods and services represents a net economic benefit overall. However, like many new technologies and business innovations, this trend is disruptive to existing business models and presents challenges for governments and regulators.\n\nFor example, should the companies providing the technology platform be liable for the actions of the suppliers in their network? Should persons in their network be treated as employees, receiving benefits such as healthcare and retirement plans? If consumers tend to be higher income persons while the suppliers are lower-income persons, will the lower cost of the services (and therefore lower compensation of the suppliers) worsen income inequality? These are among the many questions the on-demand economy presents.\n\nOne study indicated that ride-sharing company Uber is significantly replacing taxi services in parts of New York City; comparing the April to June periods in 2014 versus 2015, Uber pickups rose by 6 million (from 2 million to 8 million), while Green cab pickups rose by 1 million and Yellow cab pickups fell by 4 million. Uber's impact was the most significant in Manhattan.\n\n\n\nThe taxi unions in the United States are in full support of strict ride sharing regulations. However, the taxi industry argues that all transportation companies are needed to create a fair competitive environment. \n\nCity, municipal and state laws such as acquiring business licenses, complying with building, city and zoning standards have been implemented in an effort to regulate Airbnb. Airbnb encourages hosts to research their local government’s laws and regulations before becoming a host. In some cities, Airbnb will provide occupancy tax calculations to make it easier for hosts to fulfill their tax obligations.\n\nAs a response to the fast-changing nature of working practices in the modern economy, especially the Gig economy, The UK Government has carried out a review and issued guidelines in an attempt to address these issues. The report was published on the 11th July 2017 and the overriding conclusion was that the UK’s economy should be “fair and decent”. A 7-point plan was suggested to improve working conditions and security. In addition, The Taylor Review outlines demands asking the distribution of power be distributed at a more equal level. It asks for workers of these, gig economy businesses be labeled as \"dependent contractors with extra benefits\". Other demands include, better corporate management, skill development efforts, fostering of a positive workplace,and financial representation provided by the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "262176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262176", "title": "Ahmed Mohammed al-Maqqari", "text": "Ahmed Mohammed al-Maqqari\n\nAbu-l-'Abbas Ahmad ibn Mohammed al-Maqqari (or Al-Makkari) (–1632) was an Algerian scholar who was born in Tlemcen in 1577 from a prominent intellectual family that traced its origin to the village of Maqqara, near M'sila.\n\nAfter an early training in Tlemcen, al-Maqqari moved to Fes in Morocco and then to Marrakech, following the court of Ahmad al-Mansur, to whom he dedicated his \"Rawdat al-As\" (The garden of Myrtle) about the ulemas of Marrakech and Fes. After al- Mansur's death in 1603, al-Maqqari established himself in Fes, where he was appointed both as mufti and as the imam of the Qarawiyyin mosque by al-Mansour's successor Zidan Abu Maali. In 1617, he left for the East, possibly because of a quarrel with the local ruler, and took his residence in Cairo, where he composed his best known work, \"Nafḥ al-ṭīb\".\n\nIn 1620 he visited Jerusalem and Damascus, and during the next six years made the pilgrimage five times. In 1628 he was again in Damascus, where he gave a course of lectures on Bukhari's collection of \"Traditions\", spoke much of the glories of Muslim Iberia, and received the impulse to write his work on this subject later. In the same year he returned to Cairo, where he spent a year in writing his history. He was just making preparations to settle definitely in Damascus when he died in 1632.\n\nHis greatest work, \"The Breath of Perfume from the Branch of Green Andalusia and Memorials of its Vizier Lisan ud-Din ibn ul-Khattib\", consists of two parts. The first is a compilation from many authors on the description and history of Muslim Iberia; it was published by William Wright, Christoph Krehl, Reinhart Dozy and Gustave Dugat as \"Analectes sur l'histoire et la littérature des Arabes d'Espagne\" (1855–1861), and in an abridged English translation by Pascual de Gayangos (1840–1843). The second part is a biography of Ibn al-Khatib. The whole work was published at Bulaq (1863), Cairo (1885) and Beirut (1968).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49734545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49734545", "title": "Anvar Chingizoglu", "text": "Anvar Chingizoglu\n\nAnvar Chingizoglu (; born May 10, 1962) is an Azerbaijani historian, ethnologist and genealogist who mostly specialized in the history and genealogies of medieval Azerbaijan, Iran and the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAnvar Chingizoglu was born in the town of Jabrail in Azerbaijan. His father, originally from Aşağı Yağləvənd village of Fizuli Rayon of Azerbaijan. In 1990, he graduated from the faculty of journalism Azerbaijan State University and in 2011 he started working at the Archeology and Ethnography Institute of the Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences.\n\nA. Chingizoglu was interested in geopolitics, the origin and ethnical structure of Türkic peoples.\n\nThe range of scientific problems in which Chingizoglu was engaged was wide and covered almost all aspects of ethnography of the Afshar people.\n\nHe wrote three authoritative monographs on the history of Afshar people, namely \"Afshar tribe\" (2008), \"Hossein Qholi Khan Gasimlu-Avshar\" (2012), Fath-Ali Khan Arashlu-Afshar (2014) and \"Afshar Culture\" (2014).\n\nHe is the author of 70 books and 293 printed scholarly publications.\n\nHe is an author of the documentary films \"Afshars\", \"Khurshidbanu Natavan\", \"Mir Mohsun Navvab\", \"Kamina\"...\n\n\"Books\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844291", "title": "Billy Meier", "text": "Billy Meier\n\nEduard Albert Meier (born February 3, 1937) is a Swiss citizen who is the source of many photographs of alleged unidentified flying objects (UFOs), which he presents in support of his claim that he is in contact with extraterrestrial beings. He also presented other material during the 1970s such as metal samples, sound recordings and film footage. Meier reports regular contacts with extraterrestrials he calls the Plejaren. Meier claims to be the seventh reincarnation after six prophets common to Judaism, Christianity, and Islam: Enoch, Elijah, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Jmmanuel (Jesus), and Mohammed.\n\nMeier has been widely characterized as a fraud by skeptics and ufologists, who suggest that he used models to hoax photos claimed to show alien spacecraft.\n\nBorn in the town of Bülach in the Zürcher Unterland, Meier joined the French Foreign Legion in his teens, but says he soon left and returned home. In 1965, he lost his left arm in a bus accident in Turkey. Some time later, he met and married a Greek woman, Kalliope Zafiriou, with whom he had three children. The nickname \"Billy\" came by way of an American friend who thought Meier's cowboy style of dress reminded her of \"Billy the Kid.\" This anecdote was told by Meier in an interview with Bob Zanotti of Swiss Radio International in June, 1982.\n\nMeier claims his extraterrestrial encounters began in 1942, at the age of five, when he met an elderly Plejaren man named \"Sfath\". After Sfath's death in 1953, Meier said, he began communicating with an extraterrestrial woman (though not a Plejaren) called \"Asket\". All contacts ceased in 1964, he said, then resumed on January 28, 1975, when he met \"Semjase\", the granddaughter of Sfath, and shortly thereafter another Plejaren man called \"Ptaah\". Other Plejarens, including a woman named \"Nera\", have since allegedly joined the dialog as well. Photographs of these two women were later proved to have been faked.\n\nMeier founded a religious movement based on his alleged contacts with Semjase, called the \"Freie Interessengemeinschaft für Grenz- und Geisteswissenschaften und Ufologiestudien\" (Free Community of Interests for the Border and Spiritual Sciences and Ufological Studies) in the late 1970s and established his \"Semjase Silver Star Center\". The movement's headquarters is in Switzerland.\n\nMeier's photographs and films are claimed by him to show alien spacecraft floating above the Swiss countryside. He calls the alleged spaceships \"beamships\" from Plejaren. According to Meier, the Plejaren gave him permission to photograph and film their beamships so that he could produce evidence of their extraterrestrial visitations. Some of Meier's photos are claimed by him to show prehistoric Earth scenes, extraterrestrials, and celestial objects from an alleged non-Earthly vantage point. Meier's claims are widely characterized as fraudulent by scientists, skeptics, and most ufologists, who say that his photographs and films are hoaxes.\n\nIn 1997, Meier's ex-wife, Kalliope, told interviewers that his photos were of spaceship models he crafted with items like trash can lids, carpet tacks and other household objects, and that the stories he told of his adventures with the aliens were similarly fictitious. She also said that photos of purported extraterrestrial women \"Asket\" and \"Nera\" were really photos of Michelle DellaFave and Susan Lund, members of the singing and dancing troupe The Golddiggers. It was later confirmed that the women in the photographs were members of The Golddiggers performing on \"The Dean Martin Show\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12999306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12999306", "title": "Borders of Israel", "text": "Borders of Israel\n\nThe current borders of the State of Israel are the result both of war and of diplomatic agreements among Israel, her neighbors, and colonial powers. Uniquely, only two of Israel's five potential land borders are internationally recognized while the other three are disputed. Israel's borders with Egypt and Jordan have now been formally recognized and confirmed as part of the peace treaties with those countries. The borders with Syria (Golan Heights), Lebanon (Shebaa farms) and the Palestinian territories (declared as the State of Palestine) are still in dispute.\n\nAccording to the Green Line of the 1949 Armistice Agreements, Israel borders Lebanon in the north, the Golan Heights and Syria in the northeast, the West Bank and Jordan in the east, the Gaza Strip and Egypt in the southwest. The border with Egypt is the international border demarcated in 1906 between the United Kingdom and the Ottoman Empire, confirmed in the 1979 Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty, and the border with Jordan is based on the border defined in the 1922 Trans-Jordan memorandum, confirmed in the 1994 Israel–Jordan peace treaty.\n\nThe Sykes–Picot Agreement of 1916 secretly divided the Ottoman Empire lands of Middle East between British and French spheres of influence. They agreed that \"Palestine\" was to be designated as an \"international enclave\".\n\nThis agreement was revised by Britain and France in 1919. It was agreed that Palestine and the Vilayet of Mosul in modern-day Iraq would be part of the British sphere in exchange for British support of French influence in Syria and Lebanon. According to historian Ilan Pappe,\"The borders of mandatory Palestine, first drawn up in the Sykes-Picot Agreement, were given their definitive shape during lengthy and tedious negotiations by British and French officials between 1919 and 1922 ... In October 1919 the British envisaged the area that is today southern Lebanon and most of southern Syria as being part of British mandatory Palestine ... In the East, matters were more complicated...[Transjordan] was part of the Ottoman province of Damascus which in the Sykes-Picot agreement had been allocated to the French.\" At the San Remo Conference (19–26 April 1920) the Allied Supreme Council granted the mandates for Palestine and Mesopotamia to Britain without precisely defining the boundaries of the mandated territories.\n\nIn March 1921, the Colonial Secretary Winston Churchill visited Jerusalem and following a discussion with Emir Abdullah, it was agreed that Transjordan was to be added to the proposed Palestine Mandate, but that the Jewish National Home objective for the proposed Palestine Mandate would not apply to the territory.\n\nIn July 1922, the League of Nations approved the Palestine Mandate, which came into effect in 1923 after a dispute between France and Italy over the Syria Mandate was settled. The Mandate stated that Britain could ‘postpone or withhold’ application of the provisions dealing with the 'Jewish National Home' in the territory east of the Jordan River, then called Transjordan. In September 1922, following Abdullah's probation period, the British government presented a memorandum to the League of Nations defining the border of Transjordan and confirming its exclusion from all the provisions dealing with Jewish settlement.\n\nBritain administered the part west of the Jordan as Palestine, and the part east of the Jordan as Transjordan, with the border being the Jordan River. Palestine comprised 23% of the Mandate territory and Transjordan comprised 77%. Technically they were one mandate but most official documents referred to them as two separate mandates. Transjordan remained under British control until 1946, when it gained independence.\n\nOn 29 November 1947, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution recommending \"the adoption and implementation\" of a plan to partition Palestine into \"Independent Arab and Jewish States\" and a \"Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem\" administered by the United Nations (Resolution 181 (II)). Britain declared that the Mandate was to end on 15 May 1948. On 14 May 1948, David Ben-Gurion, in a ceremony in Tel Aviv, declared \"the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz-Israel, to be known as the State of Israel.\"\n\nEliahu Epstein, Agent, Provisional Government of Israel said in a letter to President Truman seeking recognition from the U.S government, sent immediately after the Declaration of 14 May 1948, \"that the state of Israel has been proclaimed as an independent republic within frontiers approved by the General Assembly of the United Nations in its Resolution of November 29, 1947.\"\n\nIn 1988, Palestine declared its independence without specifying its borders. Jordan extended recognition to Palestine and ceded its claim to the West Bank to the Palestinian Liberation Organisation, which had been previously designated by the Arab League as the \"sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people\".\nThe Israel–Jordan peace treaty was signed on October 26, 1994. The treaty resolved territorial and border issues that were ongoing since the 1948 war. The treaty specified and fully recognized the international border between Israel and Jordan. Upon its signing, the Jordan and Yarmouk Rivers, the Dead Sea, the Emek Ha'arva/Wadi Araba and the Gulf of Aqaba were officially designated as the borders between Israel and Jordan and between Jordan and the territory occupied by Israel in 1967. For the latter, the agreement requires that the demarcation use a different presentation, and that it carry the following disclaimer: \"This line is the administrative boundary between Jordan and the territory which came under Israeli military government control in 1967. Any treatment of this line shall be without prejudice to the status of the territory.\"\n\nIn 2011, Palestine submitted an application for membership to the United Nations, using the borders for military administration that existed before 1967. As Israel does not recognize the State of Palestine, Jordan's borders with Israel remain unclear.\n\nThe Paulet–Newcombe Agreement, a series of agreements between 1920–23, contained the principles for the boundary between the Mandates of Palestine and Mesopotamia, attributed to Great Britain, and the Mandate of Syria and the Lebanon, attributed to France.\n\nA 1920 agreement defined the boundary between the forthcoming British and French mandates in broad terms, and placed the bulk of the Golan Heights in the French sphere. The agreement also established a joint commission to settle the border and mark it on the ground. The commission submitted its final report on 3 February 1922, and it was approved with some caveats by the British and French governments on 7 March 1923, several months before Britain and France assumed their Mandatory responsibilities on 29 September 1923. In accordance with the same process, a nearby parcel of land that included the ancient site of Dan was transferred from Syria to Palestine early in 1924. In this way the Golan Heights became part of the French Mandate of Syria. When the French Mandate of Syria ended in 1944, the Golan Heights remained part of the newly independent state of Syria.\nIn 1923, an agreement between the United Kingdom and France, known as the Paulet–Newcombe Agreement, established the border between the soon-to-be formalised British Mandate of Palestine and the French Mandate of Syria. The British handed over the southern Golan Heights to the French in return for the northern Jordan Valley. The border was drawn so that both sides of the Jordan River and the whole of the Sea of Galilee, including a 10-metre-wide strip along the northeastern shore, were part of Palestine. \n\nThe 1947 UN Partition Plan allocated this territory to the Jewish state. Following the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Syria seized some land that had been allocated to the Jewish state and under the 1949 Armistice Agreements with Israel retained 66 square kilometers of that territory in the Jordan Valley that lay west of the 1923 Palestinian Mandate border (marked green in the map on right). These territories were designated demilitarized zones (DMZs) and remained under Syrian control (marked as DMZs on second map). It was emphasised that the armistice line was \"not to be interpreted as having any relation whatsoever to ultimate territorial arrangements.\" (Article V)\n\nDuring the Six-Day War (1967), Israel captured the territory as well as the rest of the Golan Heights, and subsequently repelled a Syrian attempt to recapture it during the Yom Kippur War (1973). Israel annexed the Golan Heights in 1981 with the Golan Heights Law. Israel began building settlements throughout the Golan Heights, and offered the Druze and Circassian residents citizenship, which most turned down. Today, Israel regards the Golan Heights as its sovereign territory, and a strategic necessity. The Purple Line marks the boundary between Israel and Syria. Israel's unilateral annexation has not been internationally recognized, and United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 refers to the area as Israeli-occupied.\n\nDuring the 1990s, there were constant negotiations between Israel and Syria regarding a mediation of conflicts and an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights but a peace treaty did not come to fruition. The main stumbling block seems to involve the 66 square kilometers of territory that Syria retained under the 1949 armistice agreement. Arab countries support Syria's position in the formula which calls on Israel \"to return to the 1967 borders\". (See 2002 Arab Peace Initiative)\n\nOn March 14, 1978, Israel launched Operation Litani, occupying the area south of the Litani River, excepting Tyre (see map). In response to the invasion, the UN Security Council passed Council Resolution 425 and Resolution 426 calling for the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Lebanon. Israeli forces withdrew later in 1978, but turned over their positions inside Lebanon to their ally, the South Lebanon Army (SLA).\n\nThe United Nations in June 2000 was called upon to decide the Lebanese border to determine whether Israel had fully withdrawn from Lebanon in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution 425. This line came to be called the Blue Line. At the same time, the United Nations did not have to consider the legality of the boundary between Lebanon and the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights, as that was not required for the purpose of Council Resolution 425. Accordingly, the Armistice Demarcation Line between Lebanon and the Israeli-controlled Golan Heights is expressly not to be called the Blue Line.\n\nThe Blue Line, which the UN had to determine was the line of deployment of the IDF before March 14, 1978, when Israel invaded Lebanon. In effect that line was recognised by both Lebanon and by Israel as the international border, and not just as the Armistice Demarcation Line of 1949 (what is commonly called the Green Line) following the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nOn April 17, 2000, Israel announced that it would withdraw its forces from Lebanon. The Lebanese government refused to take part in marking the border. The UN thus conducted its own survey based on the line for the purpose of Council Resolution 425, which called for \"strict respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence of Lebanon within its internationally recognized boundaries\".\n\nFrom May 24 to June 7, 2000, the UN Special Envoy heard views in Israel, Lebanon and Syria. The United Nations cartographer and his team, assisted by UNIFIL, worked on the ground to identify a line to be adopted for the practical purposes of confirming the Israeli withdrawal. While it was agreed that this would not be a formal border demarcation, the aim was to identify a line on the ground closely conforming to the internationally recognized boundaries of Lebanon, based on the best available cartographic and other documentary evidence. On May 25, 2000, Israel notified the Secretary-General that it had redeployed its forces in compliance with Council Resolution 425, that is to the Internationally recognized Lebanese border. On June 7, the completed map showing the withdrawal line was formally transmitted by the force commander of UNIFIL to his Lebanese and Israeli counterparts. Notwithstanding their reservations about the line, the governments of Israel and Lebanon confirmed that identifying this line was solely the responsibility of the United Nations and that they would respect the line as identified.\n\nOn June 8, UNIFIL teams commenced the work of verifying the Israeli withdrawal behind the line.\n\nThe Blue Line identified by the United Nations in 2000 as the border of Lebanon, from the Mediterranean Sea to the Hasbani River, closely approximates the Green Line set under the 1949 armistice agreement between Lebanon and Israel. The area east of the Hasbani River, is considered part of Syria and included in the Golan Heights.\n\nThe armistice agreement between Lebanon and Israel was signed on March 23, 1949. The main points were:\n\nIn 1923, 38 boundary markers were placed along the 49-mile (78 km) boundary and a detailed text description was published. The 2000 Blue Line differs in about a half dozen short stretches from the 1949 line, though never by more than 475 meters.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1967, Israeli and Lebanese surveyors managed to complete 25 non-contiguous kilometers and mark (but not sign) another quarter of the international border.\n\nOn June 16, the Secretary-General reported to the Security Council that Israel had withdrawn its forces from Lebanon in accordance with Council Resolution 425 and met the requirements defined in his report of May 22, 2000. The withdrawal line has been termed the Blue Line in all official UN communications since.\n\nThe Shebaa Farms conflict stems from Israel's occupation and annexation of the Golan Heights, with respect to that territory's border with Lebanon. Both Lebanon and Syria were within the French Mandate Territory between 1920 and the end of the French Mandate in 1946. The dispute over the sovereignty over the Shebaa Farms resulted in part from the failure of French Mandate administrations, and subsequently from the failure of the Lebanon and Syria to properly demarcate the border between them.\n\nDocuments from the 1920s and 1930s indicate that some local inhabitants regarded themselves as part of Lebanon, for example paying taxes to the Lebanese government. But French officials at times expressed confusion as to the actual location of the border. One French official in 1939 expressed the belief that the uncertainty was sure to cause trouble in the future.\n\nThe region continued to be represented in the 1930s and 1940s as Syrian territory, under the French Mandate. Detailed maps showing the border were produced by the French in 1933, and again in 1945. They clearly showed the region to be in Syria.\n\nAfter the French Mandate ended in 1946, the land was administered by Syria, and represented as such in all maps of the time. The maps of the 1949 armistice agreement between Syria and Israel also designated the area as Syrian.\n\nBorder disputes arose at times, however. Shebaa Farms was not unique; several other border villages had similar discrepancies of borders versus land ownership. Syria and Lebanon formed a joint Syrian–Lebanese border committee in the late 1950s to determine a proper border between the two nations. In 1964, concluding its work, the committee suggested to the two governments that the area be deemed the property of Lebanon, and recommended that the international border be reestablished consistent with its suggestion. However, neither Syria nor Lebanon adopted the committee's suggestion, and neither country took any action along the suggested lines. Thus, maps of the area continued to reflect the Farms as being in Syria. Even maps of both the Syrian and Lebanese armies continued to demarcate the region within Syrian territory (see map).\n\nA number of local residents regarded themselves as Lebanese, however. The Lebanese government showed little interest in their views. The Syrian government administered the region, and on the eve of the 1967 war, the region was under effective Syrian control.\n\nIn 1967, most Shebaa Farms landowners and (Lebanese) farmers lived outside the Syrian-controlled region, across the Lebanon-Syrian border, in the Lebanese village of Shebaa. During the Six Day War in 1967, Israel captured the Golan Heights from Syria, including the Shebaa Farms area. As a consequence, the Lebanese landowners were no longer able to farm it.\n\nThe international border between the Ottoman Empire and British controlled Egypt was drawn in the Ottoman–British agreement of 1 October 1906.\n\nAccording to the personal documents of the British colonel Wilfed A. Jennings Bramley, who influenced the negotiations, the border mainly served British military interests—it furthered the Ottomans as much as possible from the Suez Canal, and gave Britain complete control over both Red Sea gulfs—Suez and Aqaba, including the Straits of Tiran. At the time, the Aqaba branch of the Hejaz railway had not been built, and the Ottomans therefore had no simple access to the Red Sea. The British were also interested in making the border as short and patrollable as possible, and did not take into account the needs of the local residents in the negotiations.\n\nThe 1949 armistice agreement between Israel and Egypt was ratified on February 24, 1949. The armistice line between these countries followed the international border except along the Gaza Strip, which remained under Egyptian occupation.\n\nThe Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty, signed on March 26, 1979, created an officially recognized international border along the 1906 line, with Egypt renouncing all claims to the Gaza Strip. A dispute arose over the marking of the border line at its southernmost point, in Taba. Taba was on the Egyptian side of the armistice line of 1949, but Israel claimed that Taba had been on the Ottoman side of a border agreed between the Ottomans and British Egypt in 1906, and that there had previously been an error in marking the line. The issue was submitted to an international commission composed of one Israeli, one Egyptian, and three outsiders. In 1988, the commission ruled in Egypt's favor, and Israel withdrew from Taba later that year.\n\nOn 29 November 1947, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution recommending \"to the United Kingdom, as the mandatory Power for Palestine, and to all other Members of the United Nations the adoption and implementation, with regard to the future government of Palestine, of the Plan of Partition with Economic Union\" as Resolution 181 (II). The Plan contained a proposal to terminate the British Mandate for Palestine and partition Palestine into \"Independent Arab and Jewish States and the Special International Regime for the City of Jerusalem\". The Jewish community of Mandate Palestine accepted the plan, despite its misgivings. With a few exceptions, the Arab leaders and governments rejected the plan of partition in the resolution and indicated that they would reject any other plan of partition. On 14 May 1948, the day before the expiration of the Mandate for Palestine, David Ben-Gurion, on behalf of the Jewish community, declared \"the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz-Israel, to be known as the State of Israel\".\nOn the next day, the Arab armies marched their forces into what had been the British Mandate for Palestine. This intervention/invasion from all sides turned the 1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine into the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The tide of battle soon turned against the Arabs, and Israel then launched a series of military offensives, greatly expanding its territorial holdings. On September 22, 1948, during a truce in the war, the Provisional State Council of Israel passed a law annexing all land that Israel had captured in that war, and declaring that from then on, any part of Palestine taken by the Israeli army would automatically be annexed to Israel. The end of the war saw the Lausanne Conference of 1949. Following internationally supervised Arab-Israeli negotiations, a boundary based on the cease-fire lines of the war with minor territorial adjustments, commonly referred to as the Green Line, was agreed upon in the 1949 Armistice Agreements. The Green Line was expressly declared in the Armistice Agreements as a temporary demarcation line, rather than a permanent border, and the Armistice Agreements relegated the issue of permanent borders to future negotiations. The area to the west of the Jordan River came to be called the West Bank, and was annexed by Jordan in 1950; and the Gaza Strip was controlled by Egypt. During the Six-Day War of 1967, Israel captured the West Bank from Jordan, Gaza Strip and Sinai peninsula from Egypt, and Golan Heights from Syria, and placed these territories under military occupation.\n\nIsrael and the Palestinian territories now lay entirely within the boundaries of former British Mandate Palestine. By the Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty of 1979, Egypt renounced all claims to the Gaza Strip. In 1988, Jordan renounced all claims to the West Bank; this was made official in the Israel–Jordan Treaty of Peace of 1994. The Green Line is Israel's contested boundary with the Palestinian territories. \n\nThe boundaries of a future Palestinian State, vis-a-vis Israel, are subject to ongoing negotiations in the Israel–Palestinian peace process. Israel's West Bank Wall, which encompasses almost all Israeli settlements, including all three major cities, and only a minor Palestinian population, was declared by Prime Minister Ehud Olmert as running roughly along the future borders of Israel. Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman proposed that the Arab-Israeli border region known as the Triangle be removed from Israeli sovereignty and transferred to the Palestinian Authority, in exchange for the border settlement blocs. The Palestinian Authority claims all of these territories (including East Jerusalem) for a future Palestinian State, and its position is supported by the Arab League in the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative which calls for the return by Israel to \"the 1967 borders\". While Israel has expressed desire to annex the border settlement blocs and keep East Jerusalem, its border with Gaza has largely been solidified, especially following Israel's withdrawal in 2005. Israel has not made claims to any portion Gazan territory and offered the entire area to Palestinians as part of the 2000 Camp David Summit.\n\nAt the same time, Israel has continued to claim a nominal strip on the border between the West Bank and Jordan, and between Gaza and Egypt as its border with those countries. This is viewed as a legalistic device to enable Israel to control the entry of people and materials into the Palestinian territories.\n\nThe status and boundary of Jerusalem continue to be in dispute. \n\nIsrael took control of West Jerusalem during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, while Jordan took control of East Jerusalem (including the walled Old City in which most holy places are located). During the Six-Day War of 1967, Israel gained control of East Jerusalem, and shortly after extended Jerusalem’s municipality city limits and applied its laws, jurisdiction, and administration to East Jerusalem and the surrounding area. In 1980, the Knesset passed the Jerusalem Law, declaring Jerusalem to be the \"complete and united\" capital of Israel. The Israeli government offered the Palestinian residents citizenship, most of whom refused, and are treated today as permanent residents under Israeli law. According to the Israeli rights organisation Hamoked, if these Palestinians live abroad for seven years, or gain citizenship or residency elsewhere, they lose their Israeli residency.\n\nThe purported annexation of East Jerusalem was criticised by Palestinian, Arab and other leaders. The annexation was declared by the United Nations Security Council as \"a violation of international law\" and \"null and void\" in Resolution 478 and has not been recognized by the international community, and all countries have moved their embassies from Jerusalem.\n\nOn December 6, 2017, US President Donald Trump announced the United States recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson clarified \"that the final status [for Jerusalem], including the borders, would be left to the two parties to negotiate and decide.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19349161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349161", "title": "Cambrian explosion", "text": "Cambrian explosion\n\nThe Cambrian explosion or Cambrian radiation was an event approximately in the Cambrian period when most major animal phyla appeared in the fossil record. It lasted for about 20–25 million years. It resulted in the divergence of most modern metazoan phyla. The event was accompanied by major diversification of other organisms.\n\nBefore the Cambrian explosion, most organisms were simple, composed of individual cells occasionally organized into colonies. Over the following 70 to 80 million years, the rate of diversification accelerated, and the variety of life began to resemble that of today. Almost all present animal phyla appeared during this period.\n\nThe Cambrian explosion has generated extensive scientific debate.\n\nThe seemingly rapid appearance of fossils in the \"Primordial Strata\" was noted by William Buckland in the 1840s, and in his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", Charles Darwin discussed the then inexplicable lack of earlier fossils as one of the main difficulties for his theory of descent with slow modification through natural selection. The long-running puzzlement about the appearance of the Cambrian fauna, seemingly abruptly, without precursor, centers on three key points: whether there really was a mass diversification of complex organisms over a relatively short period of time during the early Cambrian; what might have caused such rapid change; and what it would imply about the origin of animal life. Interpretation is difficult due to a limited supply of evidence, based mainly on an incomplete fossil record and chemical signatures remaining in Cambrian rocks.\n\nThe first discovered Cambrian fossils were trilobites, described by Edward Lhuyd, the curator of Oxford Museum, in 1698. Although their evolutionary importance was not known, on the basis of their old age, William Buckland (1784–1856) realised that a dramatic step-change in the fossil record had occurred around the base of what we now call the Cambrian. Nineteenth-century geologists such as Adam Sedgwick and Roderick Murchison used the fossils for dating rock strata, specifically for establishing the Cambrian and Silurian periods. By 1859, leading geologists including Roderick Murchison, were convinced that what was then called the lowest Silurian stratum showed the origin of life on Earth, though others, including Charles Lyell, differed. In \"On the Origin of Species\", Charles Darwin considered this sudden appearance of a solitary group of trilobites, with no apparent antecedents, and absence of other fossils, to be \"undoubtedly of the gravest nature\" among the difficulties in his theory of natural selection. He reasoned that earlier seas had swarmed with living creatures, but that their fossils had not been found due to the imperfections of the fossil record. In the sixth edition of his book, he stressed his problem further as:\n\nAmerican paleontologist Charles Walcott, who studied the Burgess Shale fauna, proposed that an interval of time, the \"Lipalian\", was not represented in the fossil record or did not preserve fossils, and that the ancestors of the Cambrian animals evolved during this time.\n\nEarlier fossil evidence has since been found. The earliest claim is that the history of life on earth goes back : Rocks of that age at Warrawoona, Australia, were claimed to contain fossil stromatolites, stubby pillars formed by colonies of microorganisms. Fossils (\"Grypania\") of more complex eukaryotic cells, from which all animals, plants, and fungi are built, have been found in rocks from , in China and Montana. Rocks dating from contain fossils of the Ediacara biota, organisms so large that they are likely multicelled, but very unlike any modern organism. In 1948, Preston Cloud argued that a period of \"eruptive\" evolution occurred in the Early Cambrian, but as recently as the 1970s, no sign was seen of how the 'relatively' modern-looking organisms of the Middle and Late Cambrian arose.\n\nThe intense modern interest in this \"Cambrian explosion\" was sparked by the work of Harry B. Whittington and colleagues, who, in the 1970s, reanalysed many fossils from the Burgess Shale and concluded that several were as complex as, but different from, any living animals. The most common organism, \"Marrella\", was clearly an arthropod, but not a member of any known arthropod class. Organisms such as the five-eyed \"Opabinia\" and spiny slug-like \"Wiwaxia\" were so different from anything else known that Whittington's team assumed they must represent different phyla, seemingly unrelated to anything known today. Stephen Jay Gould's popular 1989 account of this work, \"Wonderful Life\", brought the matter into the public eye and raised questions about what the explosion represented. While differing significantly in details, both Whittington and Gould proposed that all modern animal phyla had appeared almost simultaneously in a rather short span of geological period. This view led to the modernization of Darwin's tree of life and the theory of punctuated equilibrium, which Eldredge and Gould developed in the early 1970s and which views evolution as long intervals of near-stasis \"punctuated\" by short periods of rapid change.\n\nOther analyses, some more recent and some dating back to the 1970s, argue that complex animals similar to modern types evolved well before the start of the Cambrian.\n\nRadiometric dates for much of the Cambrian, obtained by analysis of radioactive elements contained within rocks, have only recently become available, and for only a few regions.\n\nRelative dating (\"A\" was before \"B\") is often assumed sufficient for studying processes of evolution, but this, too, has been difficult, because of the problems involved in matching up rocks of the same age across different continents.\n\nTherefore, dates or descriptions of sequences of events should be regarded with some caution until better data become available.\n\nFossils of organisms' bodies are usually the most informative type of evidence. Fossilization is a rare event, and most fossils are destroyed by erosion or metamorphism before they can be observed. Hence, the fossil record is very incomplete, increasingly so as earlier times are considered. Despite this, they are often adequate to illustrate the broader patterns of life's history. Also, biases exist in the fossil record: different environments are more favourable to the preservation of different types of organism or parts of organisms. Further, only the parts of organisms that were already mineralised are usually preserved, such as the shells of molluscs. Since most animal species are soft-bodied, they decay before they can become fossilised. As a result, although 30-plus phyla of living animals are known, two-thirds have never been found as fossils.\nThe Cambrian fossil record includes an unusually high number of lagerstätten, which preserve soft tissues. These allow paleontologists to examine the internal anatomy of animals, which in other sediments are only represented by shells, spines, claws, etc. – if they are preserved at all. The most significant Cambrian lagerstätten are the early Cambrian Maotianshan shale beds of Chengjiang (Yunnan, China) and Sirius Passet (Greenland); the middle Cambrian Burgess Shale (British Columbia, Canada); and the late Cambrian Orsten (Sweden) fossil beds.\n\nWhile lagerstätten preserve far more than the conventional fossil record, they are far from complete. Because lagerstätten are restricted to a narrow range of environments (where soft-bodied organisms can be preserved very quickly, e.g. by mudslides), most animals are probably not represented; further, the exceptional conditions that create lagerstätten probably do not represent normal living conditions. In addition, the known Cambrian lagerstätten are rare and difficult to date, while Precambrian lagerstätten have yet to be studied in detail.\n\nThe sparseness of the fossil record means that organisms usually exist long before they are found in the fossil record – this is known as the Signor–Lipps effect.\n\nTrace fossils consist mainly of tracks and burrows, but also include coprolites (fossil feces) and marks left by feeding. Trace fossils are particularly significant because they represent a data source that is not limited to animals with easily fossilized hard parts, and reflects organisms' behaviour. Also, many traces date from significantly earlier than the body fossils of animals that are thought to have been capable of making them. While exact assignment of trace fossils to their makers is generally impossible, traces may, for example, provide the earliest physical evidence of the appearance of moderately complex animals (comparable to earthworms).\n\nSeveral chemical markers indicate a drastic change in the environment around the start of the Cambrian. The markers are consistent with a mass extinction, or with a massive warming resulting from the release of methane ice.\nSuch changes may reflect a cause of the Cambrian explosion, although they may also have resulted from an increased level of biological activity – a possible result of the explosion. Despite these uncertainties, the geochemical evidence helps by making scientists focus on theories that are consistent with at least one of the likely environmental changes.\n\nCladistics is a technique for working out the \"family tree\" of a set of organisms. It works by the logic that, if groups B and C have more similarities to each other than either has to group A, then B and C are more closely related to each other than either is to A. Characteristics that are compared may be anatomical, such as the presence of a notochord, or molecular, by comparing sequences of DNA or protein. The result of a successful analysis is a hierarchy of clades – groups whose members are believed to share a common ancestor. The cladistic technique is sometimes problematic, as some features, such as wings or camera eyes, evolved more than once, convergently – this must be taken into account in analyses.\n\nFrom the relationships, it may be possible to constrain the date that lineages first appeared. For instance, if fossils of B or C date to X million years ago and the calculated \"family tree\" says A was an ancestor of B and C, then A must have evolved more than X million years ago.\n\nIt is also possible to estimate how long ago two living clades diverged – i.e. about how long ago their last common ancestor must have lived  – by assuming that DNA mutations accumulate at a constant rate. These \"molecular clocks\", however, are fallible, and provide only a very approximate timing: they are not sufficiently precise and reliable for estimating when the groups that feature in the Cambrian explosion first evolved, and estimates produced by different techniques vary by a factor of two. However, the clocks can give an indication of branching rate, and when combined with the constraints of the fossil record, recent clocks suggest a sustained period of diversification through the Ediacaran and Cambrian.\n\nA phylum is the highest level in the Linnaean system for classifying organisms. Phyla can be thought of as groupings of animals based on general body plan. Despite the seemingly different external appearances of organisms, they are classified into phyla based on their internal and developmental organizations. For example, despite their obvious differences, spiders and barnacles both belong to the phylum Arthropoda, but earthworms and tapeworms, although similar in shape, belong to different phyla. As chemical and genetic testing becomes more accurate, previously hypothesised phyla are often entirely reworked.\n\nA phylum is not a fundamental division of nature, such as the difference between electrons and protons. It is simply a very high-level grouping in a classification system created to describe all currently living organisms. This system is imperfect, even for modern animals: different books quote different numbers of phyla, mainly because they disagree about the classification of a huge number of worm-like species. As it is based on living organisms, it accommodates extinct organisms poorly, if at all.\n\nThe concept of stem groups was introduced to cover evolutionary \"aunts\" and \"cousins\" of living groups, and have been hypothesized based on this scientific theory. A crown group is a group of closely related living animals plus their last common ancestor plus all its descendants. A stem group is a set of offshoots from the lineage at a point earlier than the last common ancestor of the crown group; it is a relative concept, for example tardigrades are living animals that form a crown group in their own right, but Budd (1996) regarded them as also being a stem group relative to the arthropods.\n\nThe term \"Triploblastic\" means consisting of three layers, which are formed in the embryo, quite early in the animal's development from a single-celled egg to a larva or juvenile form. The innermost layer forms the digestive tract (gut); the outermost forms skin; and the middle one forms muscles and all the internal organs except the digestive system. Most types of living animal are triploblastic – the best-known exceptions are Porifera (sponges) and Cnidaria (jellyfish, sea anemones, etc.).\n\nThe bilaterians are animals that have right and left sides at some point in their life histories. This implies that they have top and bottom surfaces and, importantly, distinct front and back ends. All known bilaterian animals are triploblastic, and all known triploblastic animals are bilaterian. Living echinoderms (sea stars, sea urchins, sea cucumbers, etc.) 'look' radially symmetrical (like wheels) rather than bilaterian, but their larvae exhibit bilateral symmetry and some of the earliest echinoderms may have been bilaterally symmetrical. Porifera and Cnidaria are radially symmetrical, not bilaterian, and not triploblastic.\n\nThe term \"Coelomate\" means having a body cavity (coelom) containing the internal organs. Most of the phyla featured in the debate about the Cambrian explosion are coelomates: arthropods, annelid worms, molluscs, echinoderms, and chordates – the noncoelomate priapulids are an important exception. All known coelomate animals are triploblastic bilaterians, but some triploblastic bilaterian animals do not have a coelom – for example flatworms, whose organs are surrounded by unspecialized tissues.\n\nUnderstanding of the Cambrian explosion relies upon knowing what was there beforehand – did the event herald the sudden appearance of a wide range of animals and behaviours, or did such things exist beforehand?\n\nPhylogenetic analysis has been used to support the view that during the Cambrian explosion, metazoans (multi-celled animals) evolved monophyletically from a single common ancestor: flagellated colonial protists similar to modern choanoflagellates.\n\nChanges in the abundance and diversity of some types of fossil have been interpreted as evidence for \"attacks\" by animals or other organisms. Stromatolites, stubby pillars built by colonies of microorganisms, are a major constituent of the fossil record from about , but their abundance and diversity declined steeply after about . This decline has been attributed to disruption by grazing and burrowing animals.\n\nPrecambrian marine diversity was dominated by small fossils known as acritarchs. This term describes almost any small organic walled fossil – from the egg cases of small metazoans to resting cysts of many different kinds of green algae. After appearing around , acritarchs underwent a boom around , increasing in abundance, diversity, size, complexity of shape, and especially size and number of spines. Their increasingly spiny forms in the last 1 billion years may indicate an increased need for defence against predation. Other groups of small organisms from the Neoproterozoic era also show signs of antipredator defenses. A consideration of taxon longevity appears to support an increase in predation pressure around this time.\nIn general, the fossil record shows a very slow appearance of these lifeforms in the Precambrian, with many cyanobacterial species making up much of the underlying sediment.\n\nThe layers of the Doushantuo formation from around \nharbour microscopic fossils that may represent early bilaterians. Some have been described as animal embryos and eggs, although some may represent the remains of giant bacteria.\nAnother fossil, \"Vernanimalcula\", has been interpreted as a coelomate bilaterian,\nbut may simply be an infilled bubble.\n\nThese fossils form the earliest hard-and-fast evidence of animals, as opposed to other predators.\n\nThe traces of organisms moving on and directly underneath the microbial mats that covered the Ediacaran sea floor are preserved from the Ediacaran period, about . They were probably made by organisms resembling earthworms in shape, size, and how they moved. The burrow-makers have never been found preserved, but, because they would need a head and a tail, the burrowers probably had bilateral symmetry – which would in all probability make them bilaterian animals. They fed above the sediment surface, but were forced to burrow to avoid predators.\n\nAround the start of the Cambrian (about ), many new types of traces first appear, including well-known vertical burrows such as \"Diplocraterion\" and \"Skolithos\", and traces normally attributed to arthropods, such as \"Cruziana\" and \"Rusophycus\". The vertical burrows indicate that worm-like animals acquired new behaviours, and possibly new physical capabilities. Some Cambrian trace fossils indicate that their makers possessed hard exoskeletons, although they were not necessarily mineralised.\n\nBurrows provide firm evidence of complex organisms; they are also much more readily preserved than body fossils, to the extent that the absence of trace fossils has been used to imply the genuine absence of large, motile, bottom-dwelling organisms. They provide a further line of evidence to show that the Cambrian explosion represents a real diversification, and is not a preservational artefact.\n\nThis new habit changed the seafloor's geochemistry, and led to decreased oxygen in the ocean and increased CO2-levels in the seas and the atmosphere, resulting in global warming for tens of millions years, and could be responsible for mass extinctions. But as burrowing became established, it allowed an explosion of its own, for as burrowers disturbed the sea floor, they aerated it, mixing oxygen into the toxic muds. This made the bottom sediments more hospitable, and allowed a wider range of organisms to inhabit them – creating new niches and the scope for higher diversity.\n\nAt the start of the Ediacaran period, much of the acritarch fauna, which had remained relatively unchanged for hundreds of millions of years, became extinct, to be replaced with a range of new, larger species, which would prove far more ephemeral. This radiation, the first in the fossil record, is followed soon after by an array of unfamiliar, large, fossils dubbed the Ediacara biota, which flourished for 40 million years until the start of the Cambrian. Most of this \"Ediacara biota\" were at least a few centimeters long, significantly larger than any earlier fossils. The organisms form three distinct assemblages, increasing in size and complexity as time progressed.\n\nMany of these organisms were quite unlike anything that appeared before or since, resembling discs, mud-filled bags, or quilted mattresses – one palæontologist proposed that the strangest organisms should be classified as a separate kingdom, Vendozoa.\n\nAt least some may have been early forms of the phyla at the heart of the \"Cambrian explosion\" debate, having been interpreted as early molluscs (\"Kimberella\"), echinoderms (\"Arkarua\"); and arthropods (\"Spriggina\", \"Parvancorina\"). Still, debate exists about the classification of these specimens, mainly because the diagnostic features that allow taxonomists to classify more recent organisms, such as similarities to living organisms, are generally absent in the ediacarans. However, there seems little doubt that \"Kimberella\" was at least a triploblastic bilaterian animal. These organisms are central to the debate about how abrupt the Cambrian explosion was. If some were early members of the animal phyla seen today, the \"explosion\" looks a lot less sudden than if all these organisms represent an unrelated \"experiment\", and were replaced by the animal kingdom fairly soon thereafter (40M years is \"soon\" by evolutionary and geological standards).\n\nPaul Knauth, a geologist at Arizona State University, maintains that photosynthesizing organisms such as algae may have grown over a 750- to 800-million-year-old formation in Death Valley known as the Beck Spring Dolomite. In the early 1990s, samples from this 1,000-foot thick layer of dolomite revealed that the region housed flourishing mats of photosynthesizing, unicellular life forms which antedated the Cambrian explosion.\n\nMicrofossils have been unearthed from holes riddling the otherwise barren surface of the dolomite. These geochemical and microfossil findings support the idea that during the Precambrian period, complex life evolved both in the oceans and on land. Knauth contends that animals may well have had their origins in freshwater lakes and streams, and not in the oceans.\n\nSome 30 years later, a number of studies have documented an abundance of geochemical and microfossil evidence showing that life covered the continents as far back as 2.2 billion years ago. Many paleobiologists now accept the idea that simple life forms existed on land during the Precambrian, but are opposed to the more radical idea that multicellular life thrived on land more than 600 million years ago.\n\nThe first Ediacaran and lowest Cambrian (Nemakit-Daldynian) skeletal fossils represent tubes and problematic sponge spicules. The oldest sponge spicules are monaxon siliceous, aged around , known from the Doushantou Formation in China and from deposits of the same age in Mongolia, although the interpretation of these fossils as spicules has been challenged. In the late Ediacaran-lowest Cambrian, numerous tube dwellings of enigmatic organisms appeared. It was organic-walled tubes (e.g. \"Saarina\") and chitinous tubes of the sabelliditids (e.g. \"Sokoloviina\", \"Sabellidites\", \"Paleolina\") that prospered up to the beginning of the Tommotian. The mineralized tubes of \"Cloudina\", \"Namacalathus\", \"Sinotubulites\", and a dozen more of the other organisms from carbonate rocks formed near the end of the Ediacaran period from , as well as the triradially symmetrical mineralized tubes of anabaritids (e.g. \"Anabarites\", \"Cambrotubulus\") from uppermost Ediacaran and lower Cambrian. Ediacaran mineralized tubes are often found in carbonates of the stromatolite reefs and thrombolites, i.e. they could live in an environment adverse to the majority of animals.\n\nAlthough they are as hard to classify as most other Ediacaran organisms, they are important in two other ways. First, they are the earliest known calcifying organisms (organisms that built shells from calcium carbonate). Secondly, these tubes are a device to rise over a substrate and competitors for effective feeding and, to a lesser degree, they serve as armor for protection against predators and adverse conditions of environment. Some \"Cloudina\" fossils show small holes in shells. The holes possibly are evidence of boring by predators sufficiently advanced to penetrate shells. A possible \"evolutionary arms race\" between predators and prey is one of the hypotheses that attempt to explain the Cambrian explosion.\n\nIn the lowest Cambrian, the stromatolites were decimated. This allowed animals to begin colonization of warm-water pools with carbonate sedimentation. At first, it was anabaritids and \"Protohertzina\" (the fossilized grasping spines of chaetognaths) fossils. Such mineral skeletons as shells, sclerites, thorns, and plates appeared in uppermost Nemakit-Daldynian; they were the earliest species of halkierids, gastropods, hyoliths and other rare organisms. The beginning of the Tommotian has historically been understood to mark an explosive increase of the number and variety of fossils of molluscs, hyoliths, and sponges, along with a rich complex of skeletal elements of unknown animals, the first archaeocyathids, brachiopods, tommotiids, and others. Also soft-bodied extant phyla such as comb jellies, scalidophorans, entoproctans, horseshoe worms and lobopodians had armored forms. This sudden increase is partially an artefact of missing strata at the Tommotian type section, and most of this fauna in fact began to diversify in a series of pulses through the Nemakit-Daldynian and into the Tommotian.\n\nSome animals may already have had sclerites, thorns, and plates in the Ediacaran (e.g. \"Kimberella\" had hard sclerites, probably of carbonate), but thin carbonate skeletons cannot be fossilized in siliciclastic deposits. Older (~750 Ma) fossils indicate that mineralization long preceded the Cambrian, probably defending small photosynthetic algae from single-celled eukaryotic predators.\n\nTrace fossils (burrows, etc.) are a reliable indicator of what life was around, and indicate a diversification of life around the start of the Cambrian, with the freshwater realm colonized by animals almost as quickly as the oceans.\n\nFossils known as \"small shelly fauna\" have been found in many parts on the world, and date from just before the Cambrian to about 10 million years after the start of the Cambrian (the Nemakit-Daldynian and Tommotian ages; see timeline). These are a very mixed collection of fossils: spines, sclerites (armor plates), tubes, archeocyathids (sponge-like animals), and small shells very like those of brachiopods and snail-like molluscs – but all tiny, mostly 1 to 2 mm long.\n\nWhile small, these fossils are far more common than complete fossils of the organisms that produced them; crucially, they cover the window from the start of the Cambrian to the first lagerstätten: a period of time otherwise lacking in fossils. Hence, they supplement the conventional fossil record and allow the fossil ranges of many groups to be extended.\n\nThe earliest trilobite fossils are about 530 million years old, but the class was already quite diverse and worldwide, suggesting they had been around for quite some time.\nThe fossil record of trilobites began with the appearance of trilobites with mineral exoskeletons – not from the time of their origin.\n\nThe earliest generally accepted echinoderm fossils appeared a little bit later, in the Late Atdabanian; unlike modern echinoderms, these early Cambrian echinoderms were not all radially symmetrical.\n\nThese provide firm data points for the \"end\" of the explosion, or at least indications that the crown groups of modern phyla were represented.\n\nThe Burgess Shale and similar lagerstätten preserve the soft parts of organisms, which provide a wealth of data to aid in the classification of enigmatic fossils. It often preserved complete specimens of organisms only otherwise known from dispersed parts, such as loose scales or isolated mouthparts. Further, the majority of organisms and taxa in these horizons are entirely soft-bodied, hence absent from the rest of the fossil record. Since a large part of the ecosystem is preserved, the ecology of the community can also be tentatively reconstructed.\nHowever, the assemblages may represent a \"museum\": a deep-water ecosystem that is evolutionarily \"behind\" the rapidly diversifying fauna of shallower waters.\n\nBecause the lagerstätten provide a mode and quality of preservation that is virtually absent outside of the Cambrian, many organisms appear completely different from anything known from the conventional fossil record. This led early workers in the field to attempt to shoehorn the organisms into extant phyla; the shortcomings of this approach led later workers to erect a multitude of new phyla to accommodate all the oddballs. It has since been realised that most oddballs diverged from lineages before they established the phyla known today – slightly different designs, which were fated to perish rather than flourish into phyla, as their cousin lineages did.\n\nThe preservational mode is rare in the preceding Ediacaran period, but those assemblages known show no trace of animal life – perhaps implying a genuine absence of macroscopic metazoans.\n\nCrustaceans, one of the four great modern groups of arthropods, are very rare throughout the Cambrian. Convincing crustaceans were once thought to be common in Burgess Shale-type biotas, but none of these individuals can be shown to fall into the crown group of \"true crustaceans\". The Cambrian record of crown-group crustaceans comes from microfossils. The Swedish Orsten horizons contain later Cambrian crustaceans, but only organisms smaller than 2 mm are preserved. This restricts the data set to juveniles and miniaturised adults.\n\nA more informative data source is the organic microfossils of the Mount Cap formation, Mackenzie Mountains, Canada. This late Early Cambrian assemblage () consists of microscopic fragments of arthropods' cuticle, which is left behind when the rock is dissolved with hydrofluoric acid. The diversity of this assemblage is similar to that of modern crustacean faunas. Analysis of fragments of feeding machinery found in the formation shows that it was adapted to feed in a very precise and refined fashion. This contrasts with most other early Cambrian arthropods, which fed messily by shovelling anything they could get their feeding appendages on into their mouths. This sophisticated and specialised feeding machinery belonged to a large (about 30 cm) organism, and would have provided great potential for diversification; specialised feeding apparatus allows a number of different approaches to feeding and development, and creates a number of different approaches to avoid being eaten.\n\nAfter an extinction at the Cambrian–Ordovician boundary, another radiation occurred, which established the taxa that would dominate the Palaeozoic.\n\nDuring this radiation, the total number of orders doubled, and families tripled, increasing marine diversity to levels typical of the Palaeozoic, and disparity to levels approximately equivalent to today's.\n\nThe event lasted for about the next 20–25 million years. Different authors break the explosion down into stages in different ways.\n\nEd Landing recognizes three stages: Stage 1, spanning the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary, corresponds to a diversification of biomineralizing animals and of deep and complex burrows; Stage 2, corresponding to the radiation of molluscs and stem-group Brachiopods (hyoliths and tommotiids), which apparently arose in intertidal waters; and Stage 3, seeing the Atdabanian diversification of trilobites in deeper waters, but little change in the intertidal realm.\n\nGraham Budd synthesises various schemes to produce a compatible view of the SSF record of the Cambrian explosion, divided slightly differently into four intervals: a \"Tube world\", lasting from , spanning the Ediacaran-Cambrian boundary, dominated by Cloudina, Namacalathus and pseudoconodont-type elements; a \"Sclerite world\", seeing the rise of halkieriids, tommotiids, and hyoliths, lasting to the end of the Fortunian (c. 525 Ma); a brachiopod world, perhaps corresponding to the as yet unratified Cambrian Stage 2; and Trilobite World, kicking off in Stage 3.\n\nComplementary to the shelly fossil record, trace fossils can be divided into five subdivisions: \"Flat world\" (late Ediacaran), with traces restricted to the sediment surface; Protreozoic III (after Jensen), with increasing complexity; \"pedum\" world, initiated at the base of the Cambrian with the base of the \"T.pedum\" zone (see discussion at Cambrian#Dating the Cambrian); \"Rusophycus\" world, spanning and thus corresponding exactly to the periods of Sclerite World and Brachiopod World under the SSF paradigm; and \"Cruziana\" world, with an obvious correspondence to Trilobite World.\n\nThere is strong evidence for species of Cnidaria and Porifera existing in the Ediacaran and possible members of Porifera even before that during the Cryogenian. Bryozoans don't appear in the fossil record until after the Cambrian, in the Lower Ordovician.\n\nThe fossil record as Darwin knew it seemed to suggest that the major metazoan groups appeared in a few million years of the early to mid-Cambrian, and even in the 1980s, this still appeared to be the case.\n\nHowever, evidence of Precambrian Metazoa is gradually accumulating. If the Ediacaran \"Kimberella\" was a mollusc-like protostome (one of the two main groups of coelomates), the protostome and deuterostome lineages must have split significantly before (deuterostomes are the other main group of coelomates). Even if it is not a protostome, it is widely accepted as a bilaterian. Since fossils of rather modern-looking cnidarians (jellyfish-like organisms) have been found in the Doushantuo lagerstätte, the cnidarian and bilaterian lineages must have diverged well over .\n\nTrace fossils and predatory borings in \"Cloudina\" shells provide further evidence of Ediacaran animals. Some fossils from the Doushantuo formation have been interpreted as embryos and one (\"Vernanimalcula\") as a bilaterian coelomate, although these interpretations are not universally accepted. Earlier still, predatory pressure has acted on stromatolites and acritarchs since around .\n\nSome say that the evolutionary change was accelerated by an order of magnitude, but the presence of Precambrian animals somewhat dampens the \"bang\" of the explosion; not only was the appearance of animals gradual, but their evolutionary radiation (\"diversification\") may also not have been as rapid as once thought. Indeed, statistical analysis shows that the Cambrian explosion was no faster than any of the other radiations in animals' history. However, it does seem that some innovations linked to the explosion – such as resistant armour – only evolved once in the animal lineage; this makes a lengthy Precambrian animal lineage harder to defend. Further, the conventional view that all the phyla arose in the Cambrian is flawed; while the phyla may have diversified in this time period, representatives of the crown groups of many phyla do not appear until much later in the Phanerozoic. Further, the mineralised phyla that form the basis of the fossil record may not be representative of other phyla, since most mineralised phyla originated in a benthic setting. The fossil record is consistent with a Cambrian explosion that was limited to the benthos, with pelagic phyla evolving much later.\n\nEcological complexity among marine animals increased in the Cambrian, as well later in the Ordovician. However, recent research has overthrown the once-popular idea that disparity was exceptionally high throughout the Cambrian, before subsequently decreasing. In fact, disparity remains relatively low throughout the Cambrian, with modern levels of disparity only attained after the early Ordovician radiation.\n\nThe diversity of many Cambrian assemblages is similar to today's, and at a high (class/phylum) level, diversity is thought by some to have risen relatively smoothly through the Cambrian, stabilizing somewhat in the Ordovician. This interpretation, however, glosses over the astonishing and fundamental pattern of basal polytomy and phylogenetic telescoping at or near the Cambrian boundary, as seen in most major animal lineages. Thus Harry Blackmore Whittington's questions regarding the abrupt nature of the Cambrian explosion remain, and have yet to be satisfactorily answered.\n\nBudd and Mann suggested that the Cambrian explosion was the result of a type of survivorship bias called the \"Push of the past\". As groups at their origin tend to go extinct, it follows that any long-lived group would have experienced an unusually rapid rate of diversification early on, creating the illusion of a general speed-up in diversification rates. However, rates of diversification could remain at background levels and still generate this sort of effect in the surviving lineages.\n\nDespite the evidence that moderately complex animals (triploblastic bilaterians) existed before and possibly long before the start of the Cambrian, it seems that the pace of evolution was exceptionally fast in the early Cambrian. Possible explanations for this fall into three broad categories: environmental, developmental, and ecological changes. Any explanation must explain both the timing and magnitude of the explosion.\n\nEarth's earliest atmosphere contained no free oxygen (O); the oxygen that animals breathe today, both in the air and dissolved in water, is the product of billions of years of photosynthesis. Cyanobacteria were the first organisms to evolve the ability to photosynthesize, introducing a steady supply of oxygen into the environment. Initially, oxygen levels did not increase substantially in the atmosphere. The oxygen quickly reacted with iron and other minerals in the surrounding rock and ocean water. Once a saturation point was reached for the reactions in rock and water, oxygen was able to exist as a gas in its diatomic form. Oxygen levels in the atmosphere increased substantially afterward. As a general trend, the concentration of oxygen in the atmosphere has risen gradually over about the last 2.5 billion years.\n\nOxygen levels seem to have a positive correlation with diversity in eukaryotes well before the Cambrian period. The last common ancestor of all extant eukaryotes is thought to have lived around 1.8 billion years ago. Around 800 million years ago, there was a notable increase in the complexity and number of eukaryotes species in the fossil record. Before the spike in diversity, eukaryotes are thought to have lived in highly sulfuric environments. Sulfide interferes with mitochondrial function in aerobic organisms, limiting the amount of oxygen that could be used to drive metabolism. Oceanic sulfide levels decreased around 800 million years ago, which supports the importance of oxygen in eukaryotic diversity.\n\nThe shortage of oxygen might well have prevented the rise of large, complex animals. The amount of oxygen an animal can absorb is largely determined by the area of its oxygen-absorbing surfaces (lungs and gills in the most complex animals; the skin in less complex ones); but, the amount needed is determined by its volume, which grows faster than the oxygen-absorbing area if an animal's size increases equally in all directions. An increase in the concentration of oxygen in air or water would increase the size to which an organism could grow without its tissues becoming starved of oxygen. However, members of the Ediacara biota reached metres in length tens of millions of years before the Cambrian explosion. Other metabolic functions may have been inhibited by lack of oxygen, for example the construction of tissue such as collagen, required for the construction of complex structures, or to form molecules for the construction of a hard exoskeleton. However, animals are not affected when similar oceanographic conditions occur in the Phanerozoic; there is no convincing correlation between oxygen levels and evolution, so oxygen may have been no more a prerequisite to complex life than liquid water or primary productivity.\n\nThe amount of ozone (O) required to shield Earth from biologically lethal UV radiation, wavelengths from 200 to 300 nanometers (nm), is believed to have been in existence around the Cambrian explosion. The presence of the ozone layer may have enabled the development of complex life and life on land, as opposed to life being restricted to the water.\n\nIn the late Neoproterozoic (extending into the early Ediacaran period), the Earth suffered massive glaciations in which most of its surface was covered by ice. This may have caused a mass extinction, creating a genetic bottleneck; the resulting diversification may have given rise to the Ediacara biota, which appears soon after the last \"Snowball Earth\" episode.\nHowever, the snowball episodes occurred a long time before the start of the Cambrian, and it is hard to see how so much diversity could have been caused by even a series of bottlenecks; the cold periods may even have \"delayed\" the evolution of large size organisms.\n\nNewer research suggests that volcanically active midocean ridges caused a massive and sudden surge of the calcium concentration in the oceans, making it possible for marine organisms to build skeletons and hard body parts.\nAlternatively a high influx of ions could have been provided by the widespread erosion that produced Powell's Great Unconformity.\n\nAn increase of calcium may also have been caused by erosion of the Transgondwanan Supermountain that existed at the time the explosion. The roots of the mountain are preserved in present-day East Africa as an orogen.\n\nA range of theories are based on the concept that minor modifications to animals' development as they grow from embryo to adult may have been able to cause very large changes in the final adult form. The Hox genes, for example, control which organs individual regions of an embryo will develop into. For instance, if a certain \"Hox\" gene is expressed, a region will develop into a limb; if a different Hox gene is expressed in that region (a minor change), it could develop into an eye instead (a phenotypically major change).\n\nSuch a system allows a large range of disparity to appear from a limited set of genes, but such theories linking this with the explosion struggle to explain why the origin of such a development system should by itself lead to increased diversity or disparity. Evidence of Precambrian metazoans combines with molecular data to show that much of the genetic architecture that could feasibly have played a role in the explosion was already well established by the Cambrian.\n\nThis apparent paradox is addressed in a theory that focuses on the physics of development. It is proposed that the emergence of simple multicellular forms provided a changed context and spatial scale in which novel physical processes and effects were mobilized by the products of genes that had previously evolved to serve unicellular functions. Morphological complexity (layers, segments, lumens, appendages) arose, in this view, by self-organization.\n\nHorizontal gene transfer has also been identified as a possible factor in the rapid acquisition of the biochemical capability of biomineralization among organisms during this period, based on evidence that the gene for a critical protein in the process was originally transferred from a bacterium into sponges.\n\nThese focus on the interactions between different types of organism. Some of these hypotheses deal with changes in the food chain; some suggest arms races between predators and prey, and others focus on the more general mechanisms of coevolution. Such theories are well suited to explaining why there was a rapid increase in both disparity and diversity, but they must explain why the \"explosion\" happened when it did.\n\nEvidence for such an extinction includes the disappearance from the fossil record of the Ediacara biota and shelly fossils such as \"Cloudina\", and the accompanying perturbation in the record.\n\nMass extinctions are often followed by adaptive radiations as existing clades expand to occupy the ecospace emptied by the extinction. However, once the dust had settled, overall disparity and diversity returned to the pre-extinction level in each of the Phanerozoic extinctions.\n\nAndrew Parker has proposed that predator-prey relationships changed dramatically after eyesight evolved. Prior to that time, hunting and evading were both close-range affairs – smell, vibration, and touch were the only senses used. When predators could see their prey from a distance, new defensive strategies were needed. Armor, spines, and similar defenses may also have evolved in response to vision. He further observed that, where animals lose vision in unlighted environments such as caves, diversity of animal forms tends to decrease. Nevertheless, many scientists doubt that vision could have caused the explosion. Eyes may well have evolved long before the start of the Cambrian. It is also difficult to understand why the evolution of eyesight would have caused an explosion, since other senses, such as smell and pressure detection, can detect things at a greater distance in the sea than sight can; but the appearance of these other senses apparently did not cause an evolutionary explosion.\n\nThe ability to avoid or recover from predation often makes the difference between life and death, and is therefore one of the strongest components of natural selection. The pressure to adapt is stronger on the prey than on the predator: if the predator fails to win a contest, it loses a meal; if the prey is the loser, it loses its life.\n\nBut, there is evidence that predation was rife long before the start of the Cambrian, for example in the increasingly spiny forms of acritarchs, the holes drilled in \"Cloudina\" shells, and traces of burrowing to avoid predators. Hence, it is unlikely that the \"appearance\" of predation was the trigger for the Cambrian \"explosion\", although it may well have exhibited a strong influence on the body forms that the \"explosion\" produced. However, the intensity of predation does appear to have increased dramatically during the Cambrian as new predatory \"tactics\" (such as shell-crushing) emerged. This rise of predation during the Cambrian was confirmed by the temporal pattern of the median predator ratio at the scale of genus, in fossil communities covering the Cambrian and Ordovician periods, but this pattern is not correlated to diversification rate. This lack of correlation between predator ratio and diversification over the Cambrian and Ordovician suggests that predators did not trigger the large evolutionary radiation of animals during this interval. Thus the role of predators as triggerers of diversification may have been limited to the very beginning of the \"Cambrian explosion\".\n\nGeochemical evidence strongly indicates that the total mass of plankton has been similar to modern levels since early in the Proterozoic. Before the start of the Cambrian, their corpses and droppings were too small to fall quickly towards the seabed, since their drag was about the same as their weight. This meant they were destroyed by scavengers or by chemical processes before they reached the sea floor.\n\nMesozooplankton are plankton of a larger size. Early Cambrian specimens filtered microscopic plankton from the seawater. These larger organisms would have produced droppings and corpses that were large enough to fall fairly quickly. This provided a new supply of energy and nutrients to the mid-levels and bottoms of the seas, which opened up a huge range of new possible ways of life. If any of these remains sank uneaten to the sea floor they could be buried; this would have taken some carbon out of circulation, resulting in an increase in the concentration of breathable oxygen in the seas (carbon readily combines with oxygen).\n\nThe initial herbivorous mesozooplankton were probably larvae of benthic (seafloor) animals. A larval stage was probably an evolutionary innovation driven by the increasing level of predation at the seafloor during the Ediacaran period.\n\nMetazoans have an amazing ability to increase diversity through coevolution. This means that an organism's traits can lead to traits evolving in other organisms; a number of responses are possible, and a different species can potentially emerge from each one. As a simple example, the evolution of predation may have caused one organism to develop a defence, while another developed motion to flee. This would cause the predator lineage to split into two species: one that was good at chasing prey, and another that was good at breaking through defences. Actual coevolution is somewhat more subtle, but, in this fashion, great diversity can arise: three quarters of living species are animals, and most of the rest have formed by coevolution with animals.\n\nEvolving organisms inevitably change the environment they evolve in. The Devonian colonization of land had planet-wide consequences for sediment cycling and ocean nutrients, and was likely linked to the Devonian mass extinction. A similar process may have occurred on smaller scales in the oceans, with, for example, the sponges filtering particles from the water and depositing them in the mud in a more digestible form; or burrowing organisms making previously unavailable resources available for other organisms.\n\nThe explosion may not have been a significant evolutionary event. It may represent a threshold being crossed: for example a threshold in genetic complexity that allowed a vast range of morphological forms to be employed. This genetic threshold may have a correlation to the amount of oxygen available to organisms. Using oxygen for metabolism produces much more energy than anaerobic processes. Organisms that use more oxygen have the opportunity to produce more complex proteins, providing a template for further evolution. These proteins translate into larger, more complex structures that allow organisms better to adapt to their environments. With the help of oxygen, genes that code for these proteins could contribute to the expression of complex traits more efficiently. Access to a wider range of structures and functions would allow organisms to evolve in different directions, increasing the number of niches that could be inhabited. Furthermore, organisms had the opportunity to become more specialized in their own niches.\n\nThe \"Cambrian explosion\" can be viewed as two waves of metazoan expansion into empty niches: first, a coevolutionary rise in diversity as animals explored niches on the Ediacaran sea floor, followed by a second expansion in the early Cambrian as they became established in the water column. The rate of diversification seen in the Cambrian phase of the explosion is unparalleled among marine animals: it affected all metazoan clades of which Cambrian fossils have been found. Later radiations, such as those of fish in the Silurian and Devonian periods, involved fewer taxa, mainly with very similar body plans. Although the recovery from the Permian-Triassic extinction started with about as few animal species as the Cambrian explosion, the recovery produced far fewer significantly new types of animals.\n\nWhatever triggered the early Cambrian diversification opened up an exceptionally wide range of previously unavailable ecological niches. When these were all occupied, limited space existed for such wide-ranging diversifications to occur again, because strong competition existed in all niches and incumbents usually had the advantage. If a wide range of empty niches had continued, clades would be able to continue diversifying and become disparate enough for us to recognise them as different phyla; when niches are filled, lineages will continue to resemble one another long after they diverge, as limited opportunity exists for them to change their life-styles and forms.\n\nThere were two similar explosions in the evolution of land plants: after a cryptic history beginning about , land plants underwent a uniquely rapid adaptive radiation during the Devonian period, about . Furthermore, Angiosperms (flowering plants) originated and rapidly diversified during the Cretaceous period.\n\n\nTimeline References:\n\n"}
{"id": "13523158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13523158", "title": "Coat of arms of Basque Country (autonomous community)", "text": "Coat of arms of Basque Country (autonomous community)\n\nThe current Basque coat of arms (Spanish: \"Escudo del País Vasco\", Basque: \"Euskal autonomi erkidegoaren armarria\") is the official coat of arms of the Basque Country, Autonomous community of Spain. It consists of a \"party per cross\" representing the three historical territories of Álava, Gipuzkoa and Biscay, as well as a fourth, void quarter. The arms are ringed by a regal wreath of oak leaves, symbolic of the Gernikako Arbola. The fourth quarter constituted since the late 19th century the linked chains of Navarre; however, following a legal suit by the Navarre Government claiming that the usage of the arms of a region on the flag of another was illegal, the Constitutional Court of Spain ordered the removal of the chains of Navarre in a judgement of 1986.\n\nAfter the end of home rule in 1839-1841, the Basque governments started a mutual approach out of common concerns in face of their exposure to Spanish centralism. The movement intensified after 1866, and a motto was coined, the \"Laurac bat\", 'the four make one', echoing the \"Irurac bat\" of the Royal Basque Company, which in turn crystallized in a coat of arms including the four historic Basque districts in Spain (called variously the \"Sister Provinces\", the Chartered Territories, the Basque Country, the Basque-Navarrese Country, etc.), to represent their common bonds, as claimed during that period by the chartered provincial governments, or the 1931 draft Statute of the Basque Country.\nIn 1936, the Provisional Government of Euzkadi, presided over by the first president, José \nAntonio Aguirre, adopted the shield with the arms of the three provinces of Álava, Gipuzkoa, Biscay comprised in the 1936 Statute (the \"Basque Provinces\", as established in the 1833 administrative design), and Navarre. The president of the government affirmed in the preamble to the Decree of 19 October 1936, and thereby approved, the emblem and flag that was to be used by the Basque Country. Thus the shield of the Government of Euzkadi contained the arms of Álava, Gipuzkoa, Biscay and Navarre in a single blazon of four quarters surrounded by a crown of oak leaves. The Provisional Government of Euzkadi stated that \"the flag must be that which gathers Basque unity and which the use, ever more frequent in the Basque lands, has sanctioned as such symbol of their unity.\"\n\nAs an official shield, like the 1936 Basque Autonomous Community, disappeared after the pro-Franco victory in the Spanish Civil War, but the coat of arms continued in unofficial use, it was even used in its flag by the rightist pro-rebel newspaper from Donostia \"El Diario Vasco\" during wartime (data for 2 May 1937). On 2 November 1978, the \"Consejo General del País Vasco\" (General Council of the Basque Country), restored the republican shield, albeit modified as follows:\n\n\nIn 1991 the Basque Government standardised the colours used in the shield.\n\nBasque nationalists, but not only, have used an unofficially recognised Basque coat of arms, the Zazpiak Bat. It has been argued that it differs from the original one by being divided into six squares and by including the coat of arms of the Basque regions in France. The motto \"Zazpiak bat\" was coined by Antoine-Thomson d'Abbadie in the late 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "31842588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31842588", "title": "Contemptus mundi", "text": "Contemptus mundi\n\nContemptus mundi, the \"contempt of the world\" and worldly concerns, is a theme in the intellectual life of both Classical Antiquity and of Christianity, both in its mystical vein and its ambivalence towards secular life, that figures largely in the Western world's history of ideas. In inculcating a turn of mind that would lead to a state of serenity untrammeled by distracting material appetites and feverish emotional connections, which the Greek philosophers called \"ataraxia\", it drew upon the assumptions of Stoicism and a neoplatonism that was distrustful of deceptive and spurious appearances. In the familiar rhetorical polarity in Hellenic philosophy between the active and the contemplative life, which Christians, who expressly rejected \"the World, the Flesh and the Devil\", might exemplify as the way of Martha and the way of Mary, \"contemptus mundi\" assumed that only the contemplative life was of lasting value and the world an empty shell, a vanity.\n\nIn the classical canon, Cicero's \"Tusculanae Disputationes\", essays on achieving Stoic stability of emotions, with rhetorical subjects such as \"Contempt of death\", was taken up definitively by Boethius in his \"Consolations of Philosophy\", during the troubled closing phase of Late Antiquity. The Latin tradition of dispraise of the public world adapted by Christian moralists, focused especially on the fickleness of Fortune, and the evils exposed in the Latin satire became a mainstay of Christian penitential literature.\n\nAmong early Christians, Eucherius of Lyon, an aristocratic and high-ranking ecclesiastic in the fifth-century Christian Church of Gaul, wrote to his kinsman a widely read letter \"de contemptu mundi\", an expression of the despair for the present and future of the world in its last throes. Contempt for the world provided intellectual underpinnings for the retreat into monasticism: when Saint Florentina, of the prominent Christian family of Hispania, founded her convent, her rule written by her brother Leander of Seville explicitly cited contempt for the world: \"Regula sive Libellus de institutione virginum et de contemptu mundi ad Florentinam sororem\".\n\nThe medieval \"trope\" of \"contemptus mundi\", drawing upon these converging traditions, pagan philosophy and Christian ascetic theology, was fundamental to a medieval education. A classic Christian expression is Bernard of Cluny's bitter 12th-century satire \"De contemptu mundi\", founded in a deep sense of the transitory nature of secular joys and the abiding permanency of the spiritual life. His text made one of the \"Auctores octo morales\", the \"eight moral authors\" that formed the central texts of medieval pedagogy.\n\nIn the early 12th century, when Adelard of Bath (c. 1080 - 1152) allegorized two contrasting figures to dispute \"De eodem et diverso\"; they were \"Philosophia\" and \"Philocosmia\", \"love of wisdom\" and the \"love of the world\". Adelard's contemporary, Henry of Huntington, in the dedicatory letter to his \"Historia Anglorum\" referred in passing to \"those who taught the contempt of the world in schools\". \n\nAn aspect of contempt for this world reflects upon the ephemerality of all life, expressed in the literary rhetorical question of \"ubi sunt\". Even as worldly a pope as Innocent III could write an essay \"On the Misery of the Human Condition\", \"De miseria humanae conditionis\", which Geoffrey Chaucer is reputed to have rendered in English, in a translation now lost. The theme had political ramifications within the Roman Church, as it was inextricably bound up with questions of apostolic poverty which was roundly condemned, in the instance of the Humiliati, as heretical.\n\nThe waning of the dominant attitude of \"contemptus mundi\" that had informed elite culture, a development that gathered impetus during the second half of the 14th century, was a precursor to the emergence of the modern secular ethos, encouraging men to study material things with greater lucidity than before, as Georges Duby has observed, noting the turn taken in painting and sculpture toward the realistic delineation of aspects of material life.\n\nThe theme of \"contemptus mundi\" continued to inform European poetry into the Early Modern period. \"Contemptus mundi\" is a running theme in the poetry of William Drummond of Hawthornden, and Burton's \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\" and the devotional verse of Jeremy Taylor would serve as further examples. The recurrence of bubonic plague offered a concrete visitation of the frailty of this life for devotional texts, as early as John Donne.\n\nIn modern times \"contemptus mundi\" has been criticized as a \"pastoral of fear\" by the historian Jean Delumeau, and M. B. Pranger found the \"trope\" \"Speaking of God after Auschwitz\" to function as a \"modern form of \"contemptus mundi\"\".\n"}
{"id": "32679304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32679304", "title": "Corpus separatum", "text": "Corpus separatum\n\nCorpus separatum is a Latin term referring to a city or region which is given a special legal and political status different from its environment, but which falls short of being sovereign, or an independent city state. The term may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6688256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6688256", "title": "Criterion of multiple attestation", "text": "Criterion of multiple attestation\n\nThe criterion of multiple attestation or \"independent attestation\" is a tool used by Biblical scholars to help determine whether certain actions or sayings by Jesus in the New Testament are from Historical Jesus. Simply put, the more independent witnesses that report an event or saying, the better. See Criteria of authenticity and the Historical Jesus.\n\nThe gospels are not always independent of each other. Matthew and Luke, for example, are likely dependent on Mark. The \"criterion of multiple attestation\" focuses on the sayings or deeds of Jesus that are attested to in more than one independent literary source such as Apostle Paul, Josephus, Q and/or the Gospel of the Hebrews. The force of this criterion is increased if a given motif or theme is also found in different literary forms such as parables, dispute stories, miracle stories, prophecy, and/or aphorism.\n\nMultiple attestation has a certain kind of objectivity. Given the \"independence\" of the sources, satisfaction of the criterion makes it harder to maintain that it was an invention of the Church. Still, this criterion, however useful, is typically one of a number of criteria, such as the criterion of discontinuity and the criterion of embarrassment, along with the historical method.\n\nFor example the \"Kingdom of God\" \"motif\" appears in \"Mark, Q, the \"Gospel of the Hebrews\", special Lucan tradition, and John, with echoes in Paul, despite the fact that 'Kingdom of God' is not Paul's preferred way of speaking.\" It also appears in an array of literary genres.\nThe \"words\" attributed to Jesus on the bread and wine during the Last Supper (found in Mark, Paul, the Didache and arguably in John) and on divorce (found in Mark and Paul) are examples of sayings that are multiply attested.\nAn example of an \"event\" that is multiply attested is Jesus's meeting with John the Baptist (found in Mark and John). \n\nThis criterion cannot be used for sources that are not independent. For example, a saying that occurs in all three Synoptic Gospels may only represent one source. Under the two-source hypothesis, both the authors of the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke used the Gospel of Mark in their writings; therefore, triple-tradition material represents only a single source, Mark. (The Augustinian hypothesis posits that Mark and Luke used Matthew, so once again triple-tradition material would have originated in a single source). Another limitation is that some sayings or deeds attributed to Jesus could have originated in the first Christian communities early enough in the tradition to be attested to by a number of independent sources, thus not representing the historical Jesus. Finally, there are some sayings or deeds of Jesus that only appear in one form or source that scholars still consider historically probable. Multiple attestation is not always a requisite for historicity, nor is it enough to determine accuracy by itself. \n\nThe criterion is one of a number of factors that have been developed by scholars to assess whether a tradition is likely to be historical; the widely-recognized criteria were distinguished by Stanley E. Porter as dissimilarity, coherence, multiple attestation, least distinctiveness and Aramaic linguistic background. Porter suggests three new criteria in the search for the words of the historical Jesus (Porter 2000), which have not yet found broad acceptance: a criterion of Greek language, of Greek textual variance and of \"discourse features\" at variance with the text's usual style. Of the criterion of multiple attestations, Porter makes the point, which has been expressed before, that multiple attestations identify common motifs rather than absolute wording, and speak only to the independence of documents and not their reliability (Porter 2000:86).\n\n"}
{"id": "54204157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54204157", "title": "Dick Kimber", "text": "Dick Kimber\n\nRichard “Dick” Glyn Kimber AM (born 1939) is an Australian historian and author who has written extensively on the history, art, culture and wildlife of Central Australia. He has published several books, the best known of which is \"Man From Arltunga: Walter Smith, Australian Bushman\" as well as more than 100 articles and essays.\n\nKimber was born at Freeling in South Australia in 1939. He went to school in the Riverland area and Brighton and then attended Adelaide University and Adelaide Teacher’s College.\n\nThroughout Kimber’s adult life, his focus has been on historical research, Aboriginal art and culture, and wildlife. He has published several books, the best known of which is \"Man From Arltunga: Walter Smith, Australian Bushman\". He has also published over 100 articles and essays. He has also given public lectures and made regular media appearances.\n\nKimber moved to Alice Springs in 1970 and taught English, history, social science and Aboriginal Studies at Alice Springs High School. In 1974 he became the first Sacred Sites Officer in the Northern Territory for the Sacred Sites Authority, before returning to teaching. From 1976 to 1978 he was the Papunya Tula Artists Coordinator and devised Aboriginal Studies materials for schools, after which he again returned to teaching. Beginning in 1976 Kimber undertook research and prepared submissions for land rights and native title claims for over twenty years, in a private capacity and for the Central Land Council and Ngaanyatjarra Council. During this time he also undertook research for the Australian Institute of Aboriginal And Torres Strait Islander Studies, the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Australian Heritage Commission and the Strehlow Research Centre, regarding locations of Aboriginal homelands and their needs, settlement history, and ownership of sacred objects. He researched the historical records of extinct and rare native fauna for the Conservation Commission of the Northern Territory and provided advice regarding the development of the Alice Springs Desert Park and issues relating to Aboriginal land ownership of various parks and reserves.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s, Kimber advised the National Museum of Australia, Museum Victoria and the Northern Territory Museum regarding Aboriginal artefacts and cultural practices, access to Papunya Tula paintings that incorporated sacred elements, and the return of sacred objects to traditional custodians in central Australia. He continues to consult for Museum Victoria is association with the Strehlow Research Centre.\n\nSince arriving in central Australia Kimber has undertaken travels, discussions and other shared experiences with many Aboriginal people, primarily in the south-western Simpson Desert, western deserts of central Australia and the deserts of Western Australia through to the Canning Stock-Route, and in Alice Springs. He has privately researched significant historical figures in inland Australia, Australian language usage, and native fauna of the inland including birds, and made important contributions to the Australian Language Dictionary, the Australian Dictionary of Biography and the Northern Territory Dictionary of Biography. The National Library of Australia has established the RG Kimber Collection for his correspondence and records.\n\nKimber was awarded an Australia Media in 2001 for \"services to the community through research projects and the recording of information of national interest in the areas of history, anthropology, Aboriginal art, ecology and land management practices in Central Australia\". Kimber was awarded a Doctor of Letters, Honoris Causa from the Charles Darwin University in 2006.\n\nKimber married to scientist Margret Friedel in 1980. He has two children Steve and Barbara. In 1980, Kimber resigned from the Education Department “becoming Alice Springs’ first publicly acknowledged ‘house-husband’\" while continuing his active writing life.\n\nHe is passionate about Australia Rules Football, lifesaving as well as history. He was the foundation captain and coach of the Melanka AFL Football Club (now West Football Club).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2651325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2651325", "title": "Dingling", "text": "Dingling\n\nThe Dingling () were an ancient people mentioned in Chinese historiography in the context of the 1st century BCE. \nThey are assumed to have been an early Proto-Turkic-speaking people, \nwhose original constituents mainly assimilated into the Xiongnu and Xianbei groups.\nThey originally lived on the bank of the Lena River in the area west of Lake Baikal, gradually moving southward to Mongolia and northern China. They were a huge independent horde for centuries, but later been defeated and temporary became subject of the Xiongnu Empire, and thus presumably related to the invaders known as Huns in the west.\nAround the 3rd century they were assimilated into the Tiele, also named Di (翟)， DiLi (狄历)， Gaoche (高車) or Chile (敕勒), who gradually expanded westward into Central Asia, expelled from Mongolia by the Rouran and establishing a state Turpan in the 5th century.\nThe Tiele were a collection of early Turkic tribes, largely descended from the Chile.\n\nThe Dingling were a warlike group of hunters, fishers, and gatherers of the southern Siberian mountain taiga region from Lake Baikal to northern Mongolia. Chinese records do not mention the physical appearance of the Dingling, suggesting general homogeneity with people of the Asiatic region, and their name appears rarely, such as Di (翟), a example of the family name that been translated based on their group name or the last name of the top Ruling class.\n\nThey might have been correlated with the Guifang, a northern tribe that appears in the oracle bone inscriptions from Yinxu.\n\nAccording to the \"History of the Gaoche\" of Wei Shou (6th century), the origin of the Dingling can be traced to the Chidi or Red Di (赤狄), who lived in northern China during the Spring and Autumn period. The \"Mozi\" mentions a total of eight Di groups related to the Chidi, of whom only the Chidi and two others were known.\n\nTo the north of the Xiongnu empire and Dingling territories, at the headwaters of the Yenisei around Tannu Uriankhai, lived the \"Gekun\" (鬲昆), also known as the Yenisei Kirghiz in later records. Further to the west near the Irtysh river lived the Hujie (呼揭). Other tribes living north of the Xiongnu, such as the Hunyu (浑庾), Qushe (屈射), and Xinli (薪犁), are only mentioned once in Chinese records, and their exact location is unknown.\n\nDuring the 2nd century BCE, the Dingling became subjects of Modu Chanyu along with 26 other tribes, including the Yuezhi and Wusun.\n\nThe Dingling were first subjugated by the Xiongnu, but these gradually weakened. In 71 BCE, after numerous conflicts between the Chinese and the Xiongnu, the Dingling, with help from neighboring tribes, took the opportunity to revolt. From 63 to 60 BCE, during a split within the Xiongnu ruling clan of Luanti (挛鞮), the Dingling attacked the Xiongnu, together with the Wusun, supported by the Chinese, from the west and the Wuhuan from the southeast.\n\nIn 51 BCE, they were, together with the Hujie and Gekun, defeated by the Xiongnu under Zhizhi Chanyu, on his way to Kangju. Over the next century there may have been more uprisings, but the only recorded one was in the year 85, when together with the Xianbei they made their final attack on the Xiongnu. After that, the Dingling were assimilated into the remaining northern Xiongnu and the Tuoba under the confederacy of Xianbei chief Tanshihuai (檀石槐). After his death in 181, the Xianbei moved south and the Dingling took their place on the steppe.\n\nBetween the short-lived Xianbei confederacy in 181 and the foundation of the Rouran Qaghanate in 402, there was a long period without a tribal confederacy on the steppe. During this period, a part of the Dingling were assimilated to the northern Xiongnu by permanently settling further to the south. Another group, documented as about 450,000, moved southeast and merged into the Xianbei.\n\nAfter the defeat of Northern Shanyu (1st century), deduced from the number of casualties and immigrants, an estimated figure of 200,000 is given for the Xiongnu still remaining on the northern steppe. Remnants of the Xiongnu managed to keep their identity until the early 5th century, living on the Orkhon River under the tribal name \"Bayeqi\" (拔也稽) before being eliminated by the Rouran.\n\nSome groups of Dingling settled in China during Wang Mang's reign. According to the \"Weilüe\", another group of Dingling escaped to the western steppe in Kazakhstan, which beeb called the West Dingling. Around the 3rd century, Dinglings living in China began to adopt family names such as Zhai(翟)or Di, Xianyu (鲜于), Luo (洛) and Yan (严). These Dingling became part of the southern Xiongnu tribes known as Chile (赤勒) during the 3rd century, from which the name Chile (敕勒) originated.\n\nDuring the Sixteen Kingdoms period the West Dingling Khan Zhai Bin(翟斌) lead his hordes, migrate from Kazakhstan into Central China, serveing the Chinese Dynasty Qian Qin(前秦)， after series of betrayed and Chinese plotting against him, Zhai Bin revolted against the QianQin Dynasty. MuRongChui 慕容垂， a XianBei noble who was appointed the high command of QianQin army to take down the revolt, but ZhaiBin successfully persuade him to start mutiny against QianQin, then later with the support of other XianBei nobles, ZhaiBin supported MuRongChui to be the leader of the Anti-Qin leagues. End of the same year, MuRongChui self appointed King of Yan Dynasty(燕王), left ZhaiBin in a dilemma of war, murder ZhaiBin and his three sons. His nephew Zhaizhen(翟真) inherited the hordes, seeking for revenge, but later assassinated by his military advisor XianYuQi (鲜于乞), the DingLing soldiers executed XianYuQi, then elected ZhaiZhen's cousin ZhaiCheng(翟成) as the new Leader, but later also been murdered by XianBei, then ZhaiLiao 翟辽, became the new leader of the hordes, with the support, he founded the Wei state, a DingLing Dynasty in China in modern HeNan Province. A branch of people descended from the Tiele in central Asia, mixing with Indo-European people, would later emerge as the Uyghur group.\n\nAbout one-quarter of the Tuoba clans show similar names as found among the later Gaoche and Tiele tribes. Among them, the Hegu (紇骨) and Yizhan (乙旃) clans kept their high status and were forbidden to intermarry with the rest.\n\nBetween the 4th and 7th centuries, the name \"Dingling\" slowly disappeared from Chinese records.\n\nIn \"Zur jenissejisch-indianischen Urverwandtschaft (Concerning Yeniseian-Indian Primal Relationship)\", the German scholar, Heinrich Werner developed a new language family which he termed \"Baikal–Siberic\". By extension, he groups together the Yeniseian peoples (Arin, Assan, Yugh, Ket, Kott, and Pumpokol), the Na-Dene Indians, and the Dingling of Chinese chronicles to \"Proto-Dingling\". The linguistic comparison of Na-Dene and Yeniseian shows that the quantity and character of the correspondences points to a possible common origin. According to Russian linguistic experts, they likely spoke a polysynthetic or synthetic language with an active form of morphosyntactic alignment, exhibiting a linguistically and culturally unified community.\n\nThe name Dingling can be seen to resemble both:\n\nAlthough the Dené–Yeniseian language family is now a widely known proposal, his inclusion of the Dingling is not widely accepted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19372829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19372829", "title": "Economic effects of the September 11 attacks", "text": "Economic effects of the September 11 attacks\n\nThe economic effects of the September 11 attacks were initial shocks causing global stock markets to drop sharply.\n\nThe September 11 attacks themselves resulted in approximately $40 billion in insurance losses, making it one of the largest insured events ever.\n\nOn Tuesday, September 11th, 2001, the opening of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was delayed after the first plane crashed into the World Trade Center's North Tower, and trading for the day was canceled after the second plane crashed into the South Tower. NASDAQ also canceled trading. The New York Stock Exchange was then evacuated as well as nearly all banks and financial institutions on Wall Street and in many cities across the country. The London Stock Exchange and other stock exchanges around the world were also closed down and evacuated in fear of follow-up terrorist attacks. The New York Stock Exchange remained closed until the following Monday. This was the third time in history that the NYSE experienced prolonged closure, the first time being in the early months of World War I and the second being March 1933 during the Great Depression. Trading on the United States bond market also ceased; the leading government bond trader, Cantor Fitzgerald, was based in the World Trade Center. The New York Mercantile Exchange was also closed for a week after the attacks.\n\nThe Federal Reserve issued a statement, saying it was \"open and operating. The discount window is available to meet liquidity needs.\". The Federal Reserve added $100 billion in liquidity per day, during the three days following the attack, to help avert a financial crisis. Federal Reserve Governor Roger W. Ferguson Jr. has described in detail this and the other actions that the Fed undertook to maintain a stable economy and offset potential disruptions arising in the financial system.\n\nGold prices spiked upwards, from $215.50 to $287 an ounce in London trading. Oil prices also spiked upwards. Gas prices in the United States also briefly shot up, though the spike in prices lasted only about one week.\n\nCurrency trading continued, with the United States dollar falling sharply against the Euro, British pound, and Japanese yen. The next day, European stock markets fell sharply, including declines of 4.6% in Spain, 8.5% in Germany, and 5.7% on the London Stock Exchange. Stocks in the Latin American markets also plunged, with a 9.2% drop in Brazil, 5.2% drop in Argentina, and 5.6% decline in Mexico, before trading was halted.\n\nIn international and domestic markets, stocks of companies in some sectors were hit particularly hard. Travel and entertainment stocks fell, while communications, pharmaceutical and military/defense stocks rose. Online travel agencies particularly suffered, as they cater to leisure travel.\n\nInsurance losses due to 9/11 were more than one and a half times greater than what was previously the largest disaster (Hurricane Andrew) in terms of losses. The losses included business interruption ($11.0 billion), property ($9.6 billion), liability ($7.5 billion), workers compensation ($1.8 billion), and others ($2.5 billion). The firms with the largest losses included Berkshire Hathaway, Lloyd's, Swiss Re, and Munich Re, all of which are reinsurers, with more than $2 billion in losses for each. Shares of major reinsurers, including Swiss Re and Baloise Insurance Group dropped by more than 10%, while shares of Swiss Life dropped 7.8%. Although the insurance industry held reserves that covered the 9/11 attacks, insurance companies were reluctant to continue providing coverage for future terrorist attacks. Only a few insurers continue to offer such coverage.\n\nFlights were grounded in various places across the United States and Canada that did not necessarily have the operational support in place, such as dedicated ground crews. A large number of transatlantic flights landed in Gander in Newfoundland and in Halifax, Nova Scotia, with the logistics handled by Transport Canada in Operation Yellow Ribbon. To help with immediate needs for victims' families, United Airlines and American Airlines both provided initial payments of $25,000. The airlines were also required to refund ticket purchases for anyone unable to fly.\n\nThe 9/11 attacks compounded financial troubles that the airline industry already was experiencing before the attacks. Share prices of airlines and airplane manufacturers plummeted after the attacks. Midway Airlines, already on the brink of bankruptcy, shut down operations almost immediately afterwards. Other airlines were threatened with bankruptcy, and tens of thousands of layoffs were announced in the week following the attacks. To help the industry, the federal government provided an aid package to the industry, including $10 billion in loan guarantees, along with $5 billion for short-term assistance.\n\nThe reduction on air travel demand caused by the attack is also seen as a contributory reason to the retirement of the only supersonic aircraft in service at the time, Concorde. It has also been commented that the lack of demand for the Concorde after its service resumption in 2001 could be caused by the death of many regular Concorde travellers resulted from this attack.\n\nTourism in New York City plummeted, causing massive losses in a sector which employed 280,000 people and generated $25 billion per year. In the week following the attack, hotel occupancy fell below 40%, and 3,000 employees were laid off. Tourism, hotel occupancy and air travel also fell drastically across the nation. The reluctance to fly may have been due to increased fear of a repeat attack. Suzanne Thompson, Professor of Psychology at Pomona College, California conducted interviews of 501 people who were not direct victims of 9/11. From this, she concluded that \"Most participants felt more distress (65 percent) and a stronger fear of flying (55 percent) immediately after the event than they did before the attacks.\"\n\nSince the 9/11 attacks, substantial resources have been put towards improving security, in the areas of homeland security, national defense, and in the private sector.\n\nIn New York City, approximately 430,000 jobs were lost and there were $2.8 billion in lost wages over the three months following the 9/11 attacks. The economic effects were mainly focused on the city's export economy sectors. The GDP for New York City was estimated to have declined by $30.3 billion over the last three months of 2001 and all of 2002. The Federal government provided $11.2 billion in immediate assistance to the Government of New York City in September 2001, and $10.5 billion in early 2002 for economic development and infrastructure needs.\n\nThe 9/11 attacks also had great impact on small businesses in Lower Manhattan, located near the World Trade Center. Approximately 18,000 small businesses were destroyed or displaced after the attacks. The Small Business Administration provided loans as assistance, while Community Development Block Grants and Economic Injury Disaster Loans were other also used by the Federal Government to provide assistance to small business affected by the 9/11 attacks.\n\nThe September 11 attacks also led directly to the U.S. war in Afghanistan, as well as additional homeland security spending. The attacks were also cited as a rationale for the Iraq war. \nThe cost of the two wars so far has surpassed $5 trillion.\n\n"}
{"id": "52209743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52209743", "title": "Elizabeth Cooper (historian)", "text": "Elizabeth Cooper (historian)\n\nElizabeth Cooper (fl. 1865–1874) was an English historian and biographer of the mid-Victorian period, known for three publications on the history of America, on Lady Arbella Stuart, and on Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford.\n\nLittle appears to be known of Cooper apart from her publications, and a few reviews and commentaries relating to them; she appears to have been unmarried, at least during the period in which she was published.\n\nIn 1865 she published \"A Popular History of America\", subtitled \" From the Discovery by Columbus to the Establishment of the Federal Republic of the United States In Three Periods: I. The Discovery and Conquest of the West Indies and South America II. The Colonization of the United States III. The War of Independence and the Establishment of the Federal Government\". The history, covering both the north and south of the continent, runs to 527 pages and includes two fold-out maps.\n\nIn the following year, 1866, she published a two-volume \"The Life and Letters of Lady Arabella Stuart\", based on her studies of Stuart-related papers held by Thomas Phillipps, Richard Monckton Milnes, 1st Baron Houghton, George Digby Wingfield Digby and others. The \"Westminster and Foreign Quarterly Review\" described the work as a carefully painted portrait, built on 'numerous original and hitherto unpublished documents', and written with 'quiet taste and sober treatment'.\n\nShe next published \"The Life of Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Stafford\" in 1874; the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography speculates that the gap between this and the \"Arabella Stuart\" might arise out of illness; her dedication in \"Stafford\" is to Edward Lane, a medical doctor and hydrotherapist who ran establishments at Moor Park, Farnham and Sudbrook Park, Petersham; Cooper evidently believed he had rescued her from certain death. The two-volume \"Stafford\" was the first scholarly treatise on Wentworth, and was received with generally good reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "8931732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8931732", "title": "Events leading to the Falklands War", "text": "Events leading to the Falklands War\n\nThere were many events leading to the 1982 Falklands War (\"Guerra de Malvinas\" in Spanish) between the United Kingdom and Argentina over possession of the Falkland Islands (\"Islas Malvinas\") and South Georgia (\"Georgia del Sur\").\n\nThe Falkland Islands had been the subject of a sovereignty dispute almost since they were first settled in 1764, between Great Britain and the later United Kingdom on one side, and successively France, Spain, and the United Provinces of the River Plate (later Argentina) on the other. A settlement was successfully established on the islands in 1828 by the German merchant of Huguenot ancestry Luis Vernet, (although there had been British, French and Spanish settlements before then). Vernet had acquired permission for his venture from both the Government of the United Provinces and the British Consulate.\n\nVernet provided regular reports to the British and had requested their protection for his settlement should they return. Britain made diplomatic protests when Vernet was appointed Governor by the United Provinces and both Britain and the United States made diplomatic protests over the attempt to curtail rights to sealing on the islands. After Vernet seized American ships sealing in the islands and confiscated their catch, the United States dispatched a warship to the islands, resulting in the abandonment of Puerto Soledad and the voluntary repatriation of many of the settlers.\n\nSubsequently, the United Provinces tried to re-establish the settlement at Puerto Soledad as a penal colony, but a mutiny resulted in the murder of one Governor. Shortly after that mutiny had been quelled, in January 1833, a British naval task force arrived charged with the re-establishment of British rule on the islands. The British requested that the Argentine administration leave the islands, who complied with that request without a shot being fired. Contrary to popular belief, the settlers on the island were not expelled at the same time, but were encouraged by the British to remain. The islands remained continuously in British possession from then until 1982.\n\nDuring the period 1976–1983, Argentina was under the control of a military dictatorship, and in the midst of a devastating economic crisis. The National Reorganization Process, as the junta was known, had killed thousands of Argentine citizens for their political opposition to the government. The era was known as the Dirty War. \n\nThe military staged a coup against the government of President Isabel Perón and put General Jorge Videla in power. He was succeeded by General Roberto Viola and then General Leopoldo Galtieri for a short while. Before he started the Falklands War, Galtieri was subject to growing opposition from the people. The actual rule of General Galtieri lasted eighteen months. In the course of 1981, Argentina saw inflation climb to over 600%, and GDP fall by 11.4%, manufacturing output by 22.9% and real wages by 19.2%. The trades unions were gaining more support for a general strike every day; popular opposition to the junta was growing rapidly.\n\nPresident Galtieri, as head of the junta, aimed to counter public concern over economic and human rights issues by means of a speedy victory over the Falklands which would appeal to popular nationalistic sentiment. Argentine intelligence officers had been working with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to help fund the Contras in Nicaragua, and the Argentine government believed it might be rewarded for this activity by non-interference on the part of the United States if it invaded the Falklands. The Argentine leadership had noticed that during the Suez crisis in 1956, the US had objected to the British use of force, that in 1981 the UK reached agreement with the former colony Rhodesia and that the 1961 Indian Annexation of Goa was initially condemned by the international community and then accepted as a \"fait accompli\". \n\nArgentina exerted pressure at the United Nations by raising hints of a possible invasion, but the British either missed or ignored this threat and did not react. The Argentines assumed that the British would not use force if the islands were invaded.\n\nAccording to British sources, the Argentines interpreted the failure of the British to react as a lack of interest in the Falklands due to the planned withdrawal (as part of a general reduction in size of the Royal Navy in 1981), including the last of the Antarctic Supply vessels, HMS \"Endurance\", and by the British Nationality Act of 1981, which replaced the full British citizenship of Falkland Islanders with a more limited version.\n\nOperation \"Sol\" in 1976, secretly landed a force of 50 men from the Argentine military under the command of Captain César Trombetta on the unoccupied Southern Thule, which belonged to the British South Sandwich Islands, where they established the military outpost of Corbeta Uruguay. This led to a formal protest from the United Kingdom, and an effort to resolve the issue through diplomatic rather than military means. Operation \"Journeyman\", the dispatching of a small military force to the South Atlantic by James Callaghan's Labour government, may have helped avert further action and subsequent reports from the Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) in 1977, 1979 and 1981 which suggested that \"as long as Argentina calculated that the British Government were prepared to negotiate seriously on sovereignty, it was unlikely to resort to force.\" However, if \"... negotiations broke down, or if Argentina concluded from them that there was no prospect of real progress towards a negotiated transfer of sovereignty, there would be a high risk of its then resorting to more forceful measures, including direct military action.\" \n\nAt a lunch between Admiral Jorge Isaac Anaya (another member of the junta) and General Leopoldo Fortunato Galtieri on 9 December 1981, in the main army barracks at Campo de Mayo, the two discussed how and when to overthrow President Roberto Viola. Anaya offered the navy's support on the understanding that the navy would be allowed to occupy the Falkland Islands and South Georgia. Galtieri appears to have hoped that public opinion would reward a successful occupation by affording him power for at least ten years. They believed that the flying of the Argentine flag in Port Stanley on the 150th anniversary of Britain's \"illegal usurpation of Las Malvinas\" would lead to a neo-Perónist era of national pride.\n\nOn Tuesday 15 December, Anaya flew from Buenos Aires to the main Argentine naval base at Puerto Belgrano. He travelled there to install Vice-Admiral Juan Lombardo officially as the new Chief of Naval Operations. After the ceremony, Anaya surprised Lombardo by telling him to prepare a plan for the occupation of the Falkland Islands. Lombardo later told the author Martin Middlebrook in an interview that Anaya told him to \"take them but not necessarily to keep them\". The conversation between Anaya and Lombardo was short and concluded with Anaya stressing the need for absolute secrecy.\n\nShortly after this initial order, Lombardo flew to Buenos Aires to ask Anaya for clarification of his orders. Lombardo recalled later: \"I set out my questions in a handwritten document to make sure they were on the record, but no copies were made. I asked these questions: Was the operation to be purely naval, or joint with other services? Was the intention to take and keep the islands, or take them and then hand them over to someone else, and, if so, would this be an Argentine force or a world force, that is, the United Nations. Could he guarantee that the secret nature of the planning be maintained? These were the answers I was given: It was to be a joint operation, but nobody else had yet been informed. I didn't know at the time whether Galtieri and\" \"Lami Dozo were aware of Admiral Anaya's orders to me, but it was confirmed a few days later that they were. I was to plan a take-over; but not to prepare the defence of the islands afterwards. About secrecy, he said that I would only be working with three other Admirals - Allara, Busser of the Marines and Garcia Bol of the Naval Air Arm; these were all near me at Puerto Belgrano. I started talks with those three, and they all asked the same or similar questions.\"\n\n\"So I went back to Buenos Aires to insist that, if the operation was to be joint, co-operation with the other services would be essential. Anaya agreed that General Garcia of the Army was in mind but had not yet been informed. He repeated that it was a Navy task to take over the Malvinas; what followed was for the junta to decide. They did not think there would be any military reaction from the British.\" \n\nThe Air Force's Brigadier Basilio Lami Dozo was not informed of the decision before 29 December and even Foreign Minister Costa Méndez was unaware of the planning while he prepared his diplomatic initiative in January 1982.\n\nDetailed planning began in early January 1982. It was headed by Vice Admiral Juan José Lombardo (Commander-in-Chief Fleet) and included General Osvald Garcia (commander of the Fifth Army Corps) and Brigadier Sigfrido Plessel, (member of the Air Force Staff). The operation would be an amphibious landing of 3,000 troops \"en masse\" to minimise bloodshed. The contingent of Royal Marines, British civil service officials and the more anti-Argentine among the Falklanders would be deported and the bulk of the invasion force would return to their bases within 48 hours. A military governor and a gendarmerie of about 500 would be left to keep the Falklanders in line. Anaya's draft planned to replace the entire island population with Argentine settlers, but Lombardo believed that such a step would outrage the international community. Instead the Falklanders should be offered financial compensation if they wished to emigrate.\n\nCommissioned by the British, an Argentine firm had constructed a temporary runway near Stanley in advance of the building of a main runway at Stanley airport. The military \"Líneas Aéreas del Estado\" (LADE) airline flew regularly to the Falkland Islands. LADE was represented by Vice-Commodore Hector Gilobert in Port Stanley and he had been gathering intelligence for four years. The cargo ship ARA \"Isla de los Estados\" was hired for commercial purposes by the island administration, and her captain Capaglio had detailed information on the Falkland coast, beaches and inner waters.\n\nIn an atmosphere of arms selling, the United Kingdom was very forthcoming to the Argentine naval attaché in London, Rear-Admiral Walter Allara. He was invited on board HMS \"Invincible\" and had conversations with British naval personnel about the shortcomings of the Royal Navy.\n\nIn January 1982, diplomatic talks over sovereignty ceased. Although it is often thought that the Falklands invasion was a long-planned action, it became clear after the war that the subsequent defence of the islands had been largely improvised; for example, sea mines were not deployed at strategic landing locations, and a large part of the infantry forces sent to the Falklands consisted of the current intake of conscripts, who had only begun their training in January/February of that year. Arguments that the war was a last-minute decision are bolstered by the fact that the Argentine Navy would have received, at the end of the year, additional French Exocet airborne anti-ship missiles, Super Étendards (French fighter aircraft capable of carrying the Exocet) and new ships being built in West Germany.\n\nThe Argentine Navy possessed modern British-built Type 42 air-defence destroyers of the type forming the bulk of the British Task Force's anti-air umbrella. Training attacks on these revealed that over half of Argentine aircraft might be lost in the process of destroying only a few British warships if they attacked at the medium to high altitudes at which the Sea Dart missile was designed to engage; hence the Argentine Air Force's employment of low-level stand-off Exocet attacks in blue-water combat, and over-land approaches when in the littoral.\n\nThe overall lack of readiness for the Falklands adventure was likely to have been due to the invasion being a last-minute decision taken as a consequence of the South Georgia crisis. Furthermore, for several years, Argentina had been on the brink of war with Chile. Argentina's military strategists feared that Chile would take advantage of the Falklands crisis and attempt to seize part of Argentine Patagonia. In 2009 Basilio Lami Dozo, the commander-in-chief of the Argentine Air Force during the war, disclosed that Leopoldo Galtieri announced to him that Chile would be the next invasion target.\n\nConsequently, a significant part of Argentina's limited forces and equipment were kept on the mainland - and during the war, Chile, perhaps suspecting an Argentine invasion, did indeed deploy forces in border regions in what looked like mobilization for a possible invasion (it is still unclear whether this was defensive, offensive or merely a diversion prompted by its British allies).\n\nArgentina's original intention was to mount a quick, symbolic occupation, followed rapidly by a withdrawal, leaving only a small garrison to support the new military governor. This strategy was based on the Argentinian assumption that the British would never respond militarily. Argentine assault units were indeed withdrawn to the mainland in the days following the invasion, but strong popular support and the rapid British reaction forced the Junta to change their objectives and reinforce the islands, since they could not politically afford to lose the islands once the British came out to fight. The junta misjudged the political climate in Britain, believing that democracies were weak, indecisive and averse to risk, and did not anticipate that the British would move their fleet halfway across the globe.\n\nIn 1980, Admiral Edgardo Otero (formerly the notorious commander of the Navy Petty-Officers School of Mechanics, where hundreds of the 'disappeared' were tortured and executed), was the head of the navy's Antarctic operations and sought to repeat Operation \"Sol\" in South Georgia by establishing a military base (Operation \"Alpha\"). Admiral Lombardo feared that Operation \"Alpha\" would jeopardise the secret preparations for the Falkland landings, but Admiral Otero had close links to Admiral Anaya who approved Operation \"Alpha\" despite promising Admiral Lombardo he would cancel the operation.\n\nThe Argentine entrepreneur, Constantino Davidoff, had a two-year-old contract regarding scrapping an old whaling station on South Georgia. In December 1981, he was transported by the icebreaker ARA \"Almirante Irizar\", commanded by Captain Trombetta, to South Georgia for an initial survey of the work. The party was landed without the customary call to the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) base at Grytviken, which led to formal diplomatic protests by the British Government.\n\nDavidoff personally called the British Embassy in Buenos Aires to apologise, and promised that his men would follow the correct protocols on landing in future. He received permission to continue with his venture, and on 11 March the naval transport ARA \"Bahía Buen Suceso\" set sail, carrying Davidoff's party of scrap workers. The party was, however, infiltrated by Argentine marines posing as civilian scientists. Operation \"Alpha\" had begun.\n\nArriving on 19 March, the party failed once again to follow the correct protocol and proceeded directly to Leith Harbour. The BAS party sent to investigate found that the Argentinian scrap metal workers had established a camp, defaced British signs, broken into the BAS hut and removed emergency rations, and had shot reindeer in contravention of local conservancy measures (landing with firearms without permission was of itself illegal). The BAS party also reported a number of men in military uniform and that the Argentine flag had been raised.\nA series of diplomatic exchanges then took place. The Falkland Islands Governor and subsequently the Foreign Office passed a message back to the BAS team for passing to the captain of the ARA \"Bahia Buen Suceso\". This was to the effect that the Argentine flag must be taken down and that they must report to the British administrator (Mr Stephen Martin, commander of the British Antarctic Survey Base) at Grytviken, to have their passports stamped (which they refused to do since it would acknowledge British sovereignty over the islands). Although the flag was lowered and the \"Bahía Buen Suceso\" departed, a party of men were left behind. On 21 March, HMS \"Endurance\" set sail with a party of 22 Royal Marines to expel the men who remained at Leith but to avoid further tensions, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) ordered \"Endurance\" to hold off.\n\nTaking advantage of the British pause, the Argentine Junta then ordered the ARA \"Bahía Paraíso\" to land a party of Buzos Tacticos (special forces) led by Lieutenant Alfredo Astiz (\"the blond angel of death\"). Rather than force a confrontation, the Royal Marines were ordered to set up an observation post to monitor the situation at Leith. The full party of Royal Marines was not landed until 31 March when it became apparent that Argentine forces intended to seize the Falkland Islands. The Grytviken Base was actually assaulted the day after the Falklands, since bad weather prevented an attack on the same day.\n\nDuring the conflict, there were no formal diplomatic relations between the United Kingdom and Argentina, so negotiations were carried out in a rather indirect way, via third parties who spoke with one then with the other belligerent (\"shuttle diplomacy\"). The Secretary-General of the United Nations, Javier Pérez de Cuéllar of Peru, announced that his efforts in favour of peace were futile.\n\nAlthough Peru (which represented Argentina's diplomatic interests in Britain) and Switzerland (which represented Britain's diplomatic interests in Argentina) exerted great diplomatic pressure to avoid war, they were unable to resolve the conflict, and a peace plan proposed by Peruvian president Fernando Belaúnde Terry, although accepted by Britain, was rejected by Argentina.\n\nThe British Government warned Rex Hunt, the Governor of the Falkland Islands, of a possible Argentine invasion on 1 April. Hunt then organised a defence, and gave military command to Major Mike Norman RM, who managed to muster a small force of Royal Marines. The Argentine Lieutenant-Commander in charge of the invasion, Guillermo Sanchez-Sabarots, landed his special forces at Mullet Creek.\n\nHe proceeded to attack the buildings in and around Port Stanley, including Government House and the Moody Brook Barracks until the Falkland Islands government at Government House surrendered on 2 April. One Argentine was killed in the main invasion; a further three Argentines died in the fighting to take control of South Georgia.\n\nThe British were quick to organise diplomatic pressure against Argentina. Because of the long distance to the Falklands, Britain had to rely on a naval task force for military action. The overall naval force was commanded by the Commander-in-Chief Fleet, Admiral Sir John Fieldhouse, who was designated Commander Task Force 317, and had three to four subordinate task groups, depending on the stage of the war. Rear Admiral John “Sandy” Woodward’s Task Group 317.8 was centred around the aircraft carriers HMS \"Hermes\" and the newly commissioned HMS \"Invincible\" carrying only 20 Fleet Air Arm (FAA) Sea Harriers between them for defence against the combined Argentinian air force and naval air arm. The task force would have to be self-reliant and able to project its force across the littoral area of the Islands.\n\nA second component was the Amphibious Group, Task Group 317.0, commanded by Commodore Michael Clapp RN. The embarked force, the Landing Group or Task Group 317.1, comprised 3 Commando Brigade, Royal Marines (including units attached from the British Army’s Parachute Regiment and a number of units under the Royal Armoured Corps cap badge (The Blues and Royals)), under the command of Brigadier Julian Thompson RM to bring it up to its wartime strength. Most of this force was aboard the hastily commandeered cruise liner \"Canberra\".\n\nA third was Submarine Group (TG 320.9) of three to four submarines under Flag Officer Submarines. The UK declared a 'total exclusion zone' of around the Falkland Islands before commencing operations, excluding all nations' vessels.\n\nThroughout the operation, 43 British merchant ships (ships taken up from trade, or STUFT), served with or supplied the task force. Cargo vessels and tankers for fuel and water formed an logistics chain between Britain and the South Atlantic.\n\nDuring the journey and up to the war beginning on 1 May, the Task Force was shadowed by Boeing 707 aircraft of the Argentine Air Force. One of these flights was intercepted outside the exclusion zone by a Sea Harrier, but the unarmed 707 was not attacked because diplomatic moves were still in progress and the British had not yet decided to commit themselves to war.\n\nPrince Andrew, then second in line to the British throne, served as a Sea King helicopter co-pilot for No.820 Naval Air Squadron on HMS \"Invincible\" during the war, flying antisubmarine and anti-surface patrols. His helicopter also acted as an improvised airborne early warning platform, helped in casualty evacuation, transport and search and rescue.\n\nThe British called their counter-invasion Operation \"Corporate\". When the task force sailed from Britain, the American news magazine \"Newsweek\" cover headline proclaimed \"The Empire Strikes Back\", which was the name of a recent \"Star Wars\" film, a humorous reference to the old British Empire.\n\nThe public mood in the United Kingdom was to support an attempt to reclaim the islands. International opinion was divided. To some, Britain was a former colonial power seeking to reclaim a lost colony from a local power, and this was a message that the Argentines initially used to garner support. Others supported Britain under the premise that it was a stable democracy invaded by a military dictatorship, along with the concept of the self-determination of the islanders, who wished to remain British. Whilst remaining diplomatically neutral, most European countries, members of the Commonwealth, and the United States, supported Britain.\n\nBritish diplomacy centred on arguing that the Falkland Islanders were entitled to use the United Nations (UN) principle of self-determination and on showing a willingness to compromise. The UN Secretary-General said that he was amazed at the compromise that the British had offered. Nevertheless, Argentina rejected it, the Junta being encouraged by massive popular support for the invasion at home and unable to backtrack; they based their arguments on rights to territory based on actions before 1945 and the creation of the UN.\n\nMany UN members realised that if territorial claims as old as this could be pursued by force, and invasions of territory allowed unchallenged, then their own borders were not safe. On 3 April, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 502, calling for the withdrawal of Argentine troops from the islands and the cessation of hostilities. On 10 April, the European Community approved trade sanctions against Argentina. President Ronald Reagan and the United States’ administration did not issue direct diplomatic condemnations, instead providing intelligence support to the British armed forces.\n\nAt first glance, it appeared that the US had military treaty obligations to both parties in the war, bound to the UK as a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and to Argentina by the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance (the \"Rio Pact\"). However, the North Atlantic Treaty only obliges the signatories to give support if the attack occurs in Europe or North America north of the Tropic of Cancer, and the Rio Pact only obliges the US to intervene if one of the adherents to the treaty is attacked—the UK never attacked Argentina.\n\nIn March, Secretary of State Alexander Haig, directed the US Ambassador to Argentina Harry W. Shlaudeman, to warn the Argentine government away from any invasion. President Reagan requested assurances from Galtieri against an invasion and offered the services of his Vice-President, George H.W. Bush, as mediator, but was refused.\n\nIn fact, the Reagan Administration was sharply divided on the issue. Meeting on 5 April, Haig and Assistant Secretary of State for Political Affairs Lawrence Eagleburger favoured backing Britain, concerned that equivocation would undermine the NATO alliance. Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Thomas Enders, however, feared that supporting Britain would undermine US anti-communist efforts in Latin America. He received the firm backing of UN Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick, Haig's nominal subordinate and political rival. Kirkpatrick was guest of honour at a dinner held by the Argentine ambassador to the United States, on the day that the Argentine armed forces landed on the islands.\n\nThe White House continued its neutrality; Reagan famously declared at the time that he could not understand why two allies were arguing over \"that little ice-cold bunch of land down there\". But he assented to Haig and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger's position. Haig briefly (8–30 April) headed a \"shuttle diplomacy\" mission between London and Buenos Aires. According to a BBC documentary titled \"The Falklands War and the White House\", Caspar Weinberger's Department of Defense began a number of non-public actions to support and supply the British military while Haig's shuttle diplomacy was still ongoing. Haig's message to the Argentines was that the British would indeed fight, and that the US would support Britain, but at the time he was not aware that America was already providing support.\n\nAt the end of the month, Reagan blamed Argentina for the failure of the mediation, declared US support for Britain, and announced the imposition of economic sanctions against Argentina.\n\nIn a notorious episode in June, Jeane Kirkpatrick, cast a second veto of a Security Council resolution calling for an immediate cease-fire, then announced minutes later that she had received instructions to abstain. The situation was blamed on a delay in communications but it was perceived by many to be part of an ongoing power struggle between Haig and Kirkpatrick.\n\nGaltieri and a fair proportion of his government thought that the UK would not react. Margaret Thatcher declared that the democratic rights of the Falkland Islanders had been assaulted and would not surrender the islands to the Argentinian \"jackboot\". This stance was aided, at least domestically, by the mostly supportive British press.\nThe Argentine junta felt that the United States would, even in a worst-case scenario, remain completely neutral in the conflict (based upon the support that Argentina had given to the Reagan administration in Central America, training Contras). This assumption demonstrated a clear blindness to the reality of the US-UK special relationship.\n\nTo some extent, the Argentine military junta was misled by its own opinion of democracies as being weak, inefficient talking-shops, afraid of taking risks. Indeed, in Britain there was much debate about the rights and wrongs of war. However, regardless of their own policies and opinions, opposition parties firmly backed the government during the crisis, in order to present a single united front.\n\nAn American fear of the perceived threat of the Soviet Union and the spread of communism, along with the certainty that Britain could handle the matter on its own, may have influenced the US to take a position of non-interference. During the Cold War, with the performance of forces being watched closely by the Soviet Union, it was considered preferable for the UK to handle without assistance a conflict within its capabilities.\n\nAmerican non-interference was vital to the US-British relationship. Ascension Island, a British possession, was vital to the long term supply of the Task Force South; however, the airbase stationed on it was run and operated by the US. The American commander of the base was ordered to assist the British in any way and for a brief period Ascension Air Field was one of the busiest airports in the world.\n\nThe most important NATO contributions were intelligence information and the rescheduled supply of the latest model of AIM-9L Sidewinder all-aspect infra-red seeking missiles, which allowed existing British stocks to be employed.\n\nMargaret Thatcher stated that \"without the Harrier jets and their immense manoeuvrability, equipped as they were with the latest version of the Sidewinder missile, supplied to us by US Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, we could never have got back the Falklands.\" This is not only politically but militarily questionable, however, as all the Fleet Air Arm Sidewinder engagements proved to be from the rear.\n\nIn early May, Caspar Weinberger offered the use of an American aircraft carrier. This seemingly extremely generous offer was seen by some as vital: it was noted by Rear Admiral Woodward that the loss of \"Invincible\" would have been a severe setback, but the loss of \"Hermes\" would have meant an end to the whole operation. Weinberger admitted that there would have been many problems if a request had ever been made; not least, it would have meant US personnel becoming directly involved in the conflict, as training British forces to crew the vessel would have taken years.\n\nBoth Weinberger and Reagan were later awarded the British honour of Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE). American critics of the US role claimed that, by failing to side with Argentina, the US violated its own Monroe Doctrine.\n\nIn September 2001, the President of Mexico, Vicente Fox, cited the conflict as proof of the failure of the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance since the treaty provides for mutual defence. However, in this conflict, Argentina was the aggressor.\n\nIn general, the Soviet Union stayed aloof from the situation. Both NATO member UK and the proactively anti-Communist regime in Argentina at the time were enemies of the USSR. However, the Soviet Union did have several interests in the South Atlantic/Antarctic region.\n\nAngola had recently become independent, in a war in which the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) received support from the Soviet Union and its allies, and this was considered a highly important Cold War conflict, especially in regard to the south Atlantic. In fact, the Falklands War occurred at a point when the Cold War had re-escalated, with the election of Ronald Reagan in the USA in the previous year, and the Soviet war in Afghanistan in full swing. According to Hugh Bicheno:\n\nAlso, the USSR maintained a number of Antarctic bases, some not far from the area of conflict, such as Bellingshausen Station in the South Shetlands, an area claimed by both Argentina and the UK. The USSR had just opened a new Antarctic base two years before — Russkaya Station — albeit on the other side of Antarctica. Warsaw Pact member Poland also operated the Henryk Arctowski base not far from Bellinghausen. In addition, the USSR had a number of fishing boats and \"research vessels\" in the region which were \"multipurpose\".\n\nHugh Bicheno continues that after Argentina, the UK and the USA:\n\nThere was great Soviet interest in how good the UK battle capability was when thrown back on its own resources. Traditionally, the Soviet Union had portrayed the UK as a US satellite, incapable of operating on its own.\n\nThe European Community, of which the United Kingdom is a member, fully supported the UK's position and opposed the invasion of the Falklands, the community also supported the United Nations Resolution requesting that Argentina withdraw from the islands. When Argentina refused, the community announced sanctions against Argentina. Today, the present European Union recognises the UK's sovereignty as the only legitimate claim and this is recognised in the Treaty of Lisbon, with all member states (apart from Spain which is Neutral), individually recognising it.\n\nThe President of France, François Mitterrand, gave full support to the UK in the Falklands war. Sir John Nott, who was Secretary of State for Defence during the conflict, has acknowledged in his memoirs that \"in so many ways Mitterrand and the French were our greatest allies\".\n\nA large part of Argentina's military equipment was French-made, so French support was crucial. Sir John has revealed that France provided Mirage and Etendard aircraft, identical to the ones that the country had supplied to Argentina, for British pilots to train against. It is also disclosed in Sir John's memoirs that France provided intelligence to help fight the Exocet missiles that she had sold to Argentina, including details of special electronic countermeasures that at the time were only known to the French armed forces. In her memoirs, Margaret Thatcher says of Mitterrand that \"I never forgot the debt we owed him for his personal support...throughout the Falklands Crisis\". As France had recently sold Super Etendard aircraft and Exocet missiles to the Argentine Navy, there was still a French team in Argentina helping to fit out the Exocets and aircraft for Argentine use at the beginning of the war. Argentina claims that the team left for France soon after the 2 April invasion, but according to\nDr. James Corum, the French team apparently continued to assist the Argentines throughout the war in spite of the NATO embargo and official French government policy.\n\nArgentina received military assistance only from Peru — despite receiving cursory support from the Organisation of American States in a resolution supporting Argentina's sovereignty and deploring European Community sanctions (with Chile, Colombia, Trinidad & Tobago, and the United States attending but abstaining), and Peruvian president Belaunde announced that his country was \"ready to support Argentina with all the resources it needed.\" This came in the form of aircraft supplies, such as long range air fuel (drop) tanks and spare parts.\n\nCuba and Bolivia offered ground troops, but their offers were seen as political posturing and not accepted. At this point in time, Cuba was also heavily involved in the war in Angola across the South Atlantic, and had 36,000 troops there.\n\nK.J. Holsti presents a different sight of the South American dilemma: \"While South American governments (except Chile and Colombia) publicly supported Argentina in its conflict with Great Britain, in private many governments were pleased with the outcome of the war. Argentina's bellicosity against Chile over the Beagle Channel problem ... [its] foreign intervention ([in] Bolivia and Nicaragua) ... and [its] propounded geopolitical doctrines that were seen in other countries as threatening to them.\"\n\nNeighbouring Chile, under General Pinochet's regime, became one of the major Latin American countries (the other being Colombia), to support Britain (and then only indirectly) by providing a military and naval diversion. In 1978 Argentina initiated Operation \"Soberania\" in order to invade the islands around Cape Horn, but stopped the operation a few hours later for military and political reasons.\n\nThe Argentine government planned to seize the disputed Beagle Channel islands after the occupation of the Falklands. Basilio Lami Dozo disclosed that Leopoldo Galtieri announced to him that \"\"[Chile] have to know that what we are doing now, because they will be the next in turn.\" Also Óscar Camilión, the last Argentine Foreign Minister before the war (29. March 1981 to 11. December 1981) stated that \"The military planning was, after the solution of the Falklands case, to invade the disputed islands in the Beagle. That was the determination of the Argentine Navy\"\n\nSuch preparations were made public. On 2 June 1982 an article was published in the Buenos Aires newspaper \"La Prensa\" concerning Manfred Schönfeld's answer to the question as to what to do after the expected Argentine victory in the Falklands : \"The war will not be finished for us, because after the defeat of our enemies in the Falklands, they must be blown away from South Georgia, the South Sandwich Islands, and all Argentine Austral archipelagos.\"\n\nThis intention was probably known by the Chilean government that provided the United Kingdom with 'limited, but significant information'.\n\nIn her book \"Statecraft\", Margaret Thatcher claims that General Pinochet gave Britain \"vital\" support during the war, most notably in intelligence, which saved British lives. Thatcher claims that the Chilean Air Force often provided Britain with early warning of impending Argentine Air Force attacks. When, at one point, the Chilean long-range radar was switched off for 24 hours for maintenance work, the Argentinian Air Force was able to bomb the Royal Navy ships \"Sir Galahad\" and \"Sir Tristram\", causing many casualties. The \"Chilean Connection\" is described in detail by Sir Lawrence Freedman in his book \"The Official History of the Falklands Campaign\".\n\nAlthough retaining positive relations with Argentina, Colombia sided with the United Kingdom. At the Organisation of American States' resolution supporting Argentina's claim, it cast an abstaining vote, along with fellow American countries Chile, Trinidad and Tobago and the United States.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Nations, closely linked to the United Kingdom (which is also a member) condemned the Invasion of the Falklands and publicly supported the UK, which they recognised as the rightful owner of the islands. Of the Commonwealth nations, New Zealand made available the frigates HMNZS Canterbury and HMNZS Waikato as replacements for British ships in the Indian Ocean, freeing British vessels for deployment to the Falklands. In addition, New Zealand and South Africa severed diplomatic relations with Argentina. Australia and New Zealand imposed economic sanctions against Argentina.\n"}
{"id": "1918188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1918188", "title": "Galley", "text": "Galley\n\nGalleys were the warships used by the early Mediterranean naval powers, including the Greeks, Phoenicians and Romans. They remained the dominant types of vessels used for war and piracy in the Mediterranean Sea until the last decades of the 16th century. As warships, galleys carried various types of weapons throughout their long existence, including rams, catapults and cannons, but also relied on their large crews to overpower enemy vessels in boarding actions. They were the first ships to effectively use heavy cannons as anti-ship weapons. As highly efficient gun platforms they forced changes in the design of medieval seaside fortresses as well as refinement of sailing warships.\n\nThe zenith of galley usage in warfare came in the late 16th century with battles like that at Lepanto in 1571, one of the largest naval battles ever fought. By the 17th century, however, sailing ships and hybrid ships like the xebec displaced galleys in naval warfare. They were the most common warships in the Atlantic Ocean during the Middle Ages, and later saw limited use in the Caribbean, the Philippines and the Indian Ocean in the early modern period, mostly as patrol craft to combat pirates. From the mid-16th century galleys were in intermittent use in the Baltic Sea, with its short distances and extensive archipelagoes. There was a minor revival of galley warfare in the 18th century in the wars among Russia, Sweden and Denmark.\n\nThe term \"galley\" derives from the medieval Greek \"galea\", a smaller version of the dromon, the prime warship of the Byzantine navy. The origin of the Greek word is unclear but could possibly be related to \"galeos\", dogfish shark. The word \"galley\" has been attested in English from c. 1300 and has been used in most European languages from around 1500 both as a general term for oared warships, and from the Middle Ages and onwards more specifically for the Mediterranean-style vessel.\nIt was only from the 16th century that a unified galley concept came in use. Before that, particularly in antiquity, there was a wide variety of terms used for different types of galleys. In modern historical literature, \"galley\" is occasionally used as a general term for various types of oared vessels larger than boats, though the \"true\" galley is defined as the ships belonging to the Mediterranean tradition.\nAncient galleys were named according to the number of oars, the number of banks of oars or lines of rowers. The terms are based on contemporary language use combined with more recent compounds of Greek and Latin words. The earliest Greek single-banked galleys are called triaconters (from \"triakontoroi\", \"thirty-oars\") and penteconters (\"pentēkontoroi\", \"fifty-oars\"). For later galleys with more than one row of oars, the terminology is based on Latin numerals with the suffix \"-reme\" from \"rēmus\", \"oar\". A \"monoreme\" has one bank of oars, a \"bireme\" two and a \"trireme\" three. Since the maximum banks of oars was three, any expansion above that did not refer to additional banks of oars, but of additional rowers for every oar. \"Quinquereme\" (\"quintus\" + \"rēmus\") was literally a \"five-oar\", but actually meant that there were several rowers to certain banks of oars which made up five lines of oar handlers. For simplicity, they have by many modern scholars been referred to as \"fives\", \"sixes\", \"eights\", \"elevens\", etc. Anything above six or seven rows of rowers was not common, though even a very exceptional \"forty\" is attested in contemporary source. Any galley with more than three or four lines of rowers is often referred to as a \"polyreme\".\n\nArchaeologist Lionel Casson has used the term \"galley\" to describe all North European shipping in the early and high Middle Ages, including Viking merchants and even their famous longships, though this is rare. Oared military vessels built on the British Isles in the 11th to 13th centuries were based on Scandinavian designs, but were nevertheless referred to as \"galleys\". Many of them were similar to birlinns, close relatives of longship types like the \"snekkja\". By the 14th century, they were replaced with balingers in southern Britain while longship-type \"Irish galleys\" remained in use throughout the Middle Ages in northern Britain.\nMedieval and early modern galleys used a different terminology than their ancient predecessors. Names were based on the changing designs that evolved after the ancient rowing schemes were forgotten. Among the most important is the Byzantine dromon, the predecessor to the Italian \"galea sottila\". This was the first step toward the final form of the Mediterranean war galley. As galleys became an integral part of an advanced, early modern system of warfare and state administration, they were divided into a number of ranked grades based on the size of the vessel and the number of its crew. The most basic types were the following: large commander \"lantern galleys\", half-galleys, galiots, fustas, brigantines and \"fregatas\". Naval historian Jan Glete has described as a sort of predecessor of the later rating system of the Royal Navy and other sailing fleets in Northern Europe.\n\nThe French navy and the British Royal Navy built a series of \"galley frigates\" from c. 1670–1690 that were small two-decked sailing cruisers with a set of oarports on the lower deck. The three British galley frigates also had distinctive names - \"James Galley\", \"Charles Galley\" and \"Mary Galley\". In the late 18th century, the term \"galley\" was in some contexts used to describe minor oared gun-armed vessels which did not fit into the category of the classic Mediterranean type. In North America, during American Revolutionary War, and other wars with France and Britain, the early US Navy and other navies built vessels that were called \"galleys\" or \"row galleys\", though they were actually brigantines or Baltic gunboats. This type of description was more a characterization of their military role, and was in part due to technicalities in administration and naval financing.\n\nAmong the earliest known watercraft were canoes made from hollowed-out logs, the earliest ancestors of galleys. Their narrow hulls required them to be paddled in a fixed sitting position facing forwards, a less efficient form of propulsion than rowing with proper oars, facing backwards. Seagoing paddled craft have been attested by finds of terracotta sculptures and lead models in the region of the Aegean Sea from the 3rd millennium BC. However, archaeologists believe that the Stone Age colonization of islands in the Mediterranean around 8,000 BC required fairly large, seaworthy vessels that were paddled and possibly even equipped with sails. The first evidence of more complex craft that are considered to prototypes for later galleys comes from Ancient Egypt during the Old Kingdom (c. 2700–2200 BC). Under the rule of pharaoh Pepi I (2332–2283 BC) these vessels were used to transport troops to raid settlements along the Levantine coast and to ship back slaves and timber. During the reign of Hatshepsut (c. 1479–57 BC), Egyptian galleys traded in luxuries on the Red Sea with the enigmatic Land of Punt, as recorded on wall paintings at the Mortuary Temple of Hatshepsut at Deir el-Bahari.\nShipbuilders, probably Phoenician, a seafaring people who lived on the southern and eastern coasts of the Mediterranean, were the first to create the two-level galley that would be widely known under its Greek name, \"diērēs\", or bireme. Even though the Phoenicians were among the most important naval civilizations in early Antiquity, little detailed evidence have been found concerning the types of ships they used. The best depictions found so far have been small, highly stylized images on seals which depict crescent-shape vessels equipped with one mast and banks of oars. Colorful frescoes on the Minoan settlement on Santorini (c. 1600 BC) show more detailed pictures of vessels with ceremonial tents on deck in a procession. Some of these are rowed, but others are paddled with men laboriously bent over the railings. This has been interpreted as a possible ritual reenactment of more ancient types of vessels, alluding to a time before rowing was invented, but little is otherwise known about the use and design of Minoan ships.\n\nIn the earliest days of the galley, there was no clear distinction between ships of trade and war other than their actual usage. River boats plied the waterways of ancient Egypt during the Old Kingdom (2700–2200 BC) and seagoing galley-like vessels were recorded bringing back luxuries from across the Red Sea in the reign of pharaoh Hatshepsut. Fitting rams to the bows of vessels sometime around the 8th century BC resulted in a distinct split in the design of warships, and set trade vessels apart, at least when it came to use in naval warfare. The Phoenicians used galleys for transports that were less elongated, carried fewer oars and relied more on sails. Carthaginian galley wrecks found off Sicily that date to the 3rd or 2nd century BC had a length to breadth ratio of 6:1, proportions that fell between the 4:1 of sailing merchant ships and the 8:1 or 10:1 of war galleys. Merchant galleys in the ancient Mediterranean were intended as carriers of valuable cargo or perishable goods that needed to be moved as safely and quickly as possible.\nThe first Greek galleys appeared around the second half of the 2nd millennium BC. In the epic poem, the \"Iliad\", set in the 12th century BC, galleys with a single row of oarsmen were used primarily to transport soldiers to and from various land battles. The first recorded naval battle, the battle of the Delta between Egyptian forces under Ramesses III and the enigmatic alliance known as the Sea Peoples, occurred as early as 1175 BC. It is the first known engagement between organized armed forces, using sea vessels as weapons of war, though primarily as fighting platforms. It was distinguished by being fought against an anchored fleet close to shore with land-based archer support.\n\nThe first true Mediterranean galleys usually had between 15 and 25 pairs of oars and were called triaconters or penteconters, literally \"thirty-\" and \"fifty-oared\", respectively. Not long after they appeared, a third row of oars was added by the addition to a bireme of an outrigger, a projecting construction that gave more room for the projecting oars. These new galleys were called \"triērēs\" (\"three-fitted\") in Greek. The Romans later called this design the \"triremis\", trireme, the name it is today best known under. It has been hypothesized that early types of triremes existed as early as 700 BC, but the earliest conclusive literary reference dates to 542 BC. With the development of triremes, penteconters disappeared altogether. Triaconters were still used, but only for scouting and express dispatches.\n\nThe earliest use for galleys in warfare was to ferry fighters from one place to another, and until the middle of the 2nd millennium BC had no real distinction from merchant freighters. Around the 14th century BC, the first dedicated fighting ships were developed, sleeker and with cleaner lines than the bulkier merchants. They were used for raiding, capturing merchants and for dispatches. During this early period, raiding became the most important form of organized violence in the Mediterranean region. Maritime classicist historian Lionel Casson used the example of Homer's works to show that seaborne raiding was considered a common and legitimate occupation among ancient maritime peoples. The later Athenian historian Thucydides described it as having been \"without stigma\" before his time.\n\nThe development of the ram sometime before the 8th century BC changed the nature of naval warfare, which had until then been a matter of boarding and hand-to-hand fighting. With a heavy projection at the foot of the bow, sheathed with metal, usually bronze, a ship could incapacitate an enemy ship by punching a hole in its planking. The relative speed and nimbleness of ships became important, since a slower ship could be outmaneuvered and disabled by a faster one. The earliest designs had only one row of rowers that sat in undecked hulls, rowing against tholes, or oarports, that were placed directly along the railings. The practical upper limit for wooden constructions fast and maneuverable enough for warfare was around 25-30 oars per side. By adding another level of oars, a development that occurred no later than c. 750 BC, the galley could be made shorter with as many rowers, while making them strong enough to be effective ramming weapons.\n\nThe emergence of more advanced states and intensified competition between them spurred on the development of advanced galleys with multiple banks of rowers. During the middle of the first millennium BC, the Mediterranean powers developed successively larger and more complex vessels, the most advanced being the classical trireme with up to 170 rowers. Triremes fought several important engagements in the naval battles of the Greco-Persian Wars (502–449 BC) and the Peloponnesian War (431-404 BC), including the battle of Aegospotami in 405 BC, which sealed the defeat of Athens by Sparta and its allies. The trireme was an advanced ship that was expensive to build and to maintain due its large crew. By the 5th century, advanced war galleys had been developed that required sizable states with an advanced economy to build and maintain. It was associated with the latest in warship technology around the 4th century BC and could only be employed by an advanced state with an advanced economy and administration. They required considerable skill to row and oarsmen were mostly free citizens who had years of experience at the oar.\n\nAs civilizations around the Mediterranean grew in size and complexity, both their navies and the galleys that made up their numbers became successively larger. The basic design of two or three rows of oars remained the same, but more rowers were added to each oar. The exact reasons are not known, but are believed to have been caused by addition of more troops and the use of more advanced ranged weapons on ships, such as catapults. The size of the new naval forces also made it difficult to find enough skilled rowers for the one-man-per-oar system of the earliest triremes. With more than one man per oar, a single rower could set the pace for the others to follow, meaning that more unskilled rowers could be employed.\n\nThe successor states of Alexander the Great's empire built galleys that were like triremes or biremes in oar layout, but manned with additional rowers for each oar. The ruler Dionysius I of Syracuse (ca. 432–367 BC) is credited with pioneering the \"five\" and \"six\", meaning five or six rows of rowers plying two or three rows of oars. Ptolemy II (283-46 BC) is known to have built a large fleet of very large galleys with several experimental designs rowed by everything from 12 up to 40 rows of rowers, though most of these are considered to have been quite impractical. Fleets with large galleys were put in action in conflicts such as the Punic Wars (246-146) between the Roman republic and Carthage, which included massive naval battles with hundreds of vessels and tens of thousands of soldiers, seamen and rowers.\n\nMost of the surviving documentary evidence comes from Greek and Roman shipping, though it is likely that merchant galleys all over the Mediterranean were highly similar. In Greek they were referred to as \"histiokopos\" (\"sail-oar-er\") to reflect that they relied on both types of propulsion. In Latin they were called \"actuaria (navis)\" (\"ship that moves\") in Latin, stressing that they were capable of making progress regardless of weather conditions. As an example of the speed and reliability, during an instance of the famous \"Carthago delenda est\"-speech, Cato the Elder demonstrated the close proximity of the Roman arch enemy Carthage by displaying a fresh fig to his audience that he claimed had been picked in North Africa only three days past. Other cargoes carried by galleys were honey, cheese, meat and live animals intended for gladiator combat. The Romans had several types of merchant galleys that specialized in various tasks, out of which the \"actuaria\" with up to 50 rowers was the most versatile, including the \"phaselus\" (lit. \"bean pod\") for passenger transport and the \"lembus\", a small-scale express carrier. Many of these designs continued to be used until the Middle Ages.\n\nThe Battle of Actium in 31 BC between the forces of Augustus and Mark Antony marked the peak of the Roman fleet arm. After Augustus' victory at Actium, most of the Roman fleet was dismantled and burned. The Roman civil wars were fought mostly by land forces, and from the 160s until the 4th century AD, no major fleet actions were recorded. During this time, most of the galley crews were disbanded or employed for entertainment purposes in mock battles or in handling the sail-like sun-screens in the larger Roman arenas. What fleets remained were treated as auxiliaries of the land forces, and galley crewmen themselves called themselves \"milites\", \"soldiers\", rather than \"nautae\", \"sailors\".\n\nThe Roman galley fleets were turned into provincial patrol forces that were smaller and relied largely on \"liburnians\", compact biremes with 25 pairs of oars. These were named after an Illyrian tribe known by Romans for their sea roving practices, and these smaller craft were based on, or inspired by, their vessels of choice. The liburnians and other small galleys patrolled the rivers of continental Europe and reached as far as the Baltic, where they were used to fight local uprisings and assist in checking foreign invasions. The Romans maintained numerous bases around the empire: along the rivers of Central Europe, chains of forts along the northern European coasts and the British Isles, Mesopotamia and North Africa, including Trabzon, Vienna, Belgrade, Dover, Seleucia and Alexandria. Few actual galley battles in the provinces are found in records. One action in 70 AD at the unspecified location of the \"Island of the Batavians\" during the Batavian Rebellion was recorded, and included a trireme as the Roman flagship. The last provincial fleet, the \"classis Britannica\", was reduced by the late 200s, though there was a minor upswing under the rule of Constantine (272–337). His rule also saw the last major naval battle of the unified Roman Empire (before the permanent split into Western and Eastern [later \"Byzantine\"] Empires), the battle of Hellespont of 324. Some time after Hellespont, the classical trireme fell out of use, and its design was forgotten.\nA transition from galley to sailing vessels as the most common types of warships began in the high Middle Ages (c. 11th century). Large high-sided sailing ships had always been formidable obstacles for galleys. To low-freeboard oared vessels, the bulkier sailing ships, the cog and the carrack, were almost like floating fortresses, being difficult to board and even harder to capture. Galleys remained useful as warships throughout the entire Middle Ages because of their maneuverability. Sailing ships of the time had only one mast, usually with just a single, large square sail. This made them cumbersome to steer and it was virtually impossible to sail into the wind direction. Galleys therefore were still the only ship type capable of coastal raiding and amphibious landings, both key elements of medieval warfare.\n\nIn the eastern Mediterranean, the Byzantine Empire struggled with the incursion from invading Muslim Arabs from the 7th century, leading to fierce competition, a buildup of fleet, and war galleys of increasing size. Soon after conquering Egypt and the Levant, the Arab rulers built ships highly similar to Byzantine dromons with the help of local Coptic shipwrights from former Byzantine naval bases. By the 9th century, the struggle between the Byzantines and Arabs had turned the Eastern Mediterranean into a no man's land for merchant activity. In the 820s Crete was captured by Andalusian Muslims displaced by a failed revolt against the Emirate of Cordoba, turning the island into a base for (galley) attacks on Christian shipping until the island was recaptured by the Byzantines in 960.\n\nIn the western Mediterranean and Atlantic, the division of the Carolingian Empire in the late 9th century brought on a period of instability, meaning increased piracy and raiding in the Mediterranean, particularly by newly arrived Muslim invaders. The situation was worsened by raiding Scandinavian Vikings who used longships, vessels that in many ways were very close to galleys in design and functionality and also employed similar tactics. To counter the threat, local rulers began to build large oared vessels, some with up to 30 pairs of oars, that were larger, faster and with higher sides than Viking ships. Scandinavian expansion, including incursions into the Mediterranean and attacks on both Muslim Iberia and even Constantinople itself, subsided by the mid-11th century. By this time, greater stability in merchant traffic was achieved by the emergence of Christian kingdoms such as those of France, Hungary and Poland. Around the same time, Italian port towns and city states, like Venice, Pisa and Amalfi, rose on the fringes of the Byzantine Empire as it struggled with eastern threats.\n\nAfter the advent of Islam and Muslim conquests of the 7th and 8th century, the old Mediterranean economy collapsed and the volume of trade went down drastically. The Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire, neglected to revive overland trade routes but was dependent on keeping the sea lanes open to keep the empire together. Bulk trade fell around 600-750 while the luxury trade increased. Galleys remained in service, but were profitable mainly in the luxury trade, which set off their high maintenance cost. In the 10th century, there was a sharp increase in piracy which resulted in larger ships with more numerous crews. These were mostly built by the growing city-states of Italy which were emerging as the dominant sea powers, including Venice, Genoa and Pisa. Inheriting the Byzantine ship designs, the new merchant galleys were similar dromons, but without any heavy weapons and both faster and wider. They could be manned by crews of up to 1,000 men and were employed in both trade and warfare. A further boost to the development of the large merchant galleys was the upswing in Western European pilgrims traveling to the Holy Land.\nIn Northern Europe, Viking longships and their derivations, knarrs, dominated trading and shipping, though developed separately from the Mediterranean galley tradition. \nIn the South galleys continued to be useful for trade even as sailing vessels evolved more efficient hulls and rigging; since they could hug the shoreline and make steady progress when winds failed, they were highly reliable. The zenith in the design of merchant galleys came with the state-owned \"great galleys\" of the Venetian Republic, first built in the 1290s. These were used to carry the lucrative trade in luxuries from the east such as spices, silks and gems. They were in all respects larger than contemporary war galleys (up to 46 m) and had a deeper draft, with more room for cargo (140-250 t). With a full complement of rowers ranging from 150 to 180 men, all available to defend the ship from attack, they were also very safe modes of travel. This attracted a business of carrying affluent pilgrims to the Holy Land, a trip that could be accomplished in as little 29 days on the route Venice-Jaffa, despite landfalls for rest and watering or for respite from rough weather.\n\nLate medieval maritime warfare was divided in two distinct regions. In the Mediterranean galleys were used for raiding along coasts, and in the constant fighting for naval bases. In the Atlantic and Baltic there was greater focus on sailing ships that were used mostly for troop transport, with galleys providing fighting support. Galleys were still widely used in the north and were the most numerous warships used by Mediterranean powers with interests in the north, especially the French and Iberian kingdoms.\n\nDuring the 13th and 14th century, the galley evolved into the design that was to remain essentially the same until it was phased out in the early 19th century. The new type descended from the ships used by Byzantine and Muslim fleets in the early Middle Ages. These were the mainstay of all Christian powers until the 14th century, including the great maritime republics of Genoa and Venice, the Papacy, the Hospitallers, Aragon and Castile, as well as by various pirates and corsairs. The overall term used for these types of vessels was \"gallee sottili\" (\"slender galleys\"). The later Ottoman navy used similar designs, but they were generally faster under sail, and smaller, but slower under oars. Galley designs were intended solely for close action with hand-held weapons and projectile weapons like bows and crossbows. In the 13th century the Iberian Crown of Aragon built several fleet of galleys with high castles, manned with Catalan crossbowman, and regularly defeated numerically superior Angevin forces.\n\nFrom the first half of the 14th century the Venetian \"galere da mercato\" (\"merchantman galleys\") were being built in the shipyards of the state-run Arsenal as \"a combination of state enterprise and private association, the latter being a kind of consortium of export merchants\", as Fernand Braudel described them. The ships sailed in convoy, defended by archers and slingsmen (\"ballestieri\") aboard, and later carrying cannons. In Genoa, the other major maritime power of the time, galleys and ships in general were more produced by smaller private ventures.\nIn the 14th and 15th centuries merchant galleys traded high-value goods and carried passengers. Major routes in the time of the early Crusades carried the pilgrim traffic to the Holy Land. Later routes linked ports around the Mediterranean, between the Mediterranean and the Black Sea (a grain trade soon squeezed off by the Turkish capture of Constantinople, 1453) and between the Mediterranean and Bruges— where the first Genoese galley arrived at Sluys in 1277, the first Venetian \"galere\" in 1314— and Southampton. Although primarily sailing vessels, they used oars to enter and leave many trading ports of call, the most effective way of entering and leaving the Lagoon of Venice. The Venetian \"galera\", beginning at 100 tons and built as large as 300, was not the largest merchantman of its day, when the Genoese carrack of the 15th century might exceed 1000 tons. In 1447, for instance, Florentine galleys planned to call at 14 ports on their way to and from Alexandria. The availability of oars enabled these ships to navigate close to the shore where they could exploit land and sea breezes and coastal currents, to work reliable and comparatively fast passages against the prevailing wind. The large crews also provided protection against piracy. These ships were very seaworthy; a Florentine great galley left Southampton on 23 February 1430 and returned to its port at Pisa in 32 days. They were so safe that merchandise was often not insured. These ships increased in size during this period, and were the template from which the galleass developed.\n\nAs early as 1304 the type of ship required by the Danish defence organization changed from galley to cog, a flat-bottomed sailing ship.\n\nDuring the early 15th century, sailing ships began to dominate naval warfare in northern waters. While the galley still remained the primary warship in southern waters, a similar transition had begun also among the Mediterranean powers. A Castilian naval raid on the island of Jersey in 1405 became the first recorded battle where a Mediterranean power employed a naval force consisting mostly of cogs or nefs, rather than the oared-powered galleys. The battle of Gibraltar between Castile and Portugal in 1476 was another important sign of change; it was the first recorded battle where the primary combatants were full-rigged ships armed with wrought-iron guns on the upper decks and in the waists, foretelling of the slow decline of the war galley.\n\nThe transition from the Mediterranean war galley to the sailing vessel as the preferred method of vessel in the Mediterranean is tied directly to technological developments and the inherent handling characteristics of each vessel types. The primary factors were changing sail design, the introduction of cannons aboard vessels, and the handling characteristics of the vessels.\n\nThe sailing vessel was always at the mercy of the wind for propulsion, and those that did carry oars were placed at a disadvantage because they were not optimized for oar use. The galley did have disadvantages compared to the sailing vessel though. Their smaller hulls were not able to hold as much cargo and this limited their range as the crews were required to replenish food stuffs more frequently. The low freeboard of the galley meant that in close action with a sailing vessel, the sailing vessel would usually maintain a height advantage. The sailing vessel could also fight more effectively farther out at sea and in rougher wind conditions because of the height of their freeboard.\n\nUnder sail, an oared warship was placed at much greater risk as a result of the piercings for the oars which were required to be near the waterline and would allow water to ingress into the galley if the vessel heeled too far to one side. These advantages and disadvantages led the galley to be and remain a primarily coastal vessel. The shift to sailing vessels in the Mediterranean was the result of the negation of some of the galley's advantages as well as the adoption of gunpowder weapons on a much larger institutional scale. The sailing vessel was propelled in a different manner than the galley but the tactics were often the same until the 16th century. The real-estate afforded to the sailing vessel to place larger cannons and other armament mattered little because early gunpowder weapons had limited range and were expensive to produce. The eventual creation of cast iron cannons allowed vessels and armies to be outfitted much more cheaply. The cost of gunpowder also fell in this period.\n\nThe armament of both vessel types varied between larger weapons such as bombards and the smaller swivel guns. For logistical purposes it became convenient for those with larger shore establishments to standardize upon a given size of cannon. Traditionally the English in the North and the Venetians in the Mediterranean are seen as some the earliest to move in this direction. The improving sail rigs of northern vessels also allowed them to navigate in the coastal waters of the Mediterranean to a much larger degree than before. Aside from warships the decrease in the cost of gunpowder weapons also led to the arming of merchants. The larger vessels of the north continued to mature while the galley retained its defining characteristics. Attempts were made to stave this off such as the addition of fighting castles in the bow, but such additions to counter the threats brought by larger sailing vessels often offset the advantages of galley.\n\nFrom around 1450, three major naval powers established a dominance over different parts of the Mediterranean using galleys as their primary weapons at sea: the Ottomans in the east, Venice in the center and Habsburg Spain in the west. The core of their fleets were concentrated in the three major, wholly dependable naval bases in the Mediterranean: Constantinople, Venice and Barcelona. Naval warfare in the 16th century Mediterranean was fought mostly on a smaller scale, with raiding and minor actions dominating. Only three truly major fleet engagements were actually fought in the 16th century: the battles of Preveza in 1538, Djerba in 1560 and Lepanto in 1571. Lepanto became the last large all-galley battle ever, and was also one of the largest battle in terms of participants anywhere in early modern Europe before the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nOccasionally the Mediterranean powers employed galley forces for conflicts outside the Mediterranean. Spain sent galley squadrons to the Netherlands during the later stages of the Eighty Years' War which successfully operated against Dutch forces in the enclosed, shallow coastal waters. From the late 1560s, galleys were also used to transport silver to Genoese bankers to finance Spanish troops against the Dutch uprising. Galleasses and galleys were part of an invasion force of over 16,000 men that conquered the Azores in 1583. Around 2,000 galley rowers were on board ships of the famous 1588 Spanish Armada, though few of these actually made it to the battle itself. Outside European and Middle Eastern waters, Spain built galleys to deal with pirates and privateers in both the Caribbean and the Philippines. Ottoman galleys contested the Portuguese intrusion in the Indian Ocean in the 16th century, but failed against the high-sided, massive Portuguese carracks in open waters.\n\nDespite the huge loss of men and material after the loss of the Spanish Armada in 1588 Spain maintained four permanent galley squadrons. Together they formed the largest galley navy in the Mediterranean in the early 17th century. They formed the backbone of the Spanish war fleet and were used for ferrying troops, supplies, horses and munitions to Spain's Italian and African possessions. The Ottoman Turks attempted to contest the Portuguese rise to power in the Indian Ocean in the 16th century with Mediterranean-style galleys, but were foiled by the formidable Portuguese carracks. Even though the carracks themselves were soon surpassed by other types of sailing vessels, their greater range, great size and high superstructures, armed with numerous wrought iron guns easily outmatched the short-ranged, low-freeboard Turkish galleys. The Spanish used galleys to more success in their colonial possessions in the Caribbean and the Philippines to hunt pirates and were used sporadically in the Netherlands and the Bay of Biscay.\nGalleys had been synonymous with warships in the Mediterranean for at least 2,000 years, and continued to fulfill that role with the invention of gunpowder and heavy artillery. Though early 20th-century historians often dismissed the galleys as hopelessly outclassed with the first introduction of naval artillery on sailing ships, it was the galley that was favored by the introduction of heavy naval guns. Galleys were a more \"mature\" technology with long-established tactics and traditions of supporting social institutions and naval organizations. In combination with the intensified conflicts this led to a substantial increase in the size of galley fleets from c. 1520–80, above all in the Mediterranean, but also in other European theatres. Galleys and similar oared vessels remained uncontested as the most effective gun-armed warships in theory until the 1560s, and in practice for a few decades more, and were actually considered a grave risk to sailing warships. They could effectively fight other galleys, attack sailing ships in calm weather or in unfavorable winds (or deny them action if needed) and act as floating siege batteries. They were also unequaled in their amphibious capabilities, even at extended ranges, as exemplified by French interventions as far north as Scotland in the mid-16th century.\n\nHeavy artillery on galleys was mounted in the bow, which aligned easily with the long-standing tactical tradition of attacking head on, bow first. The ordnance on galleys was heavy from its introduction in the 1480s, and capable of quickly demolishing the high, thin medieval stone walls that still prevailed in the 16th century. This temporarily upended the strength of older seaside fortresses, which had to be rebuilt to cope with gunpowder weapons. The addition of guns also improved the amphibious abilities of galleys as they could make assaults supported with heavy firepower, and were even more effectively defended when beached stern-first. An accumulation and generalizing of bronze cannons and small firearms in the Mediterranean during the 16th century increased the cost of warfare, but also made those dependent on them more resilient to manpower losses. Older ranged weapons, like bows or even crossbows, required considerable skill to handle, sometimes a lifetime of practice, while gunpowder weapons required considerably less training to use successfully. According to a highly influential study by military historian John F. Guilmartin, this transition in warfare, along with the introduction of much cheaper cast iron guns in the 1580s, proved the \"death knell\" for the war galley as a significant military vessel. Gunpowder weapons began to displace men as the fighting power of armed forces, making individual soldiers more deadly and effective. As offensive weapons, firearms could be stored for years with minimal maintenance and did not require the expenses associated with soldiers. Manpower could thus be exchanged for capital investments, something which benefited sailing vessels that were already far more economical in their use of manpower. It also served to increase their strategic range and to out-compete galleys as fighting ships.\n\nAtlantic-style warfare based on heavily armed sailing ships began to change the nature of naval warfare in the Mediterranean in the 17th century. In 1616, a small Spanish squadron of five galleons and a patache was used to cruise the eastern Mediterranean and defeated a fleet of 55 galleys at the battle of Cape Celidonia. By 1650, war galleys were used primarily in the wars between Venice and the Ottoman Empire in their struggle for strategic island and coastal trading bases and until the 1720s by both France and Spain but for largely amphibious and cruising operations or in combination with heavy sailing ships in a major battle, where they played specialized roles. An example of this was when a Spanish fleet used its galleys in a mixed naval/amphibious battle in the second 1641 battle of Tarragona, to break a French naval blockade and land troops and supplies. Even Venice, a purely Mediterranean power, began to construct sail only warships in the latter part of the century, as did other purely Mediterranean powers. Christian and Muslim corsairs had been using galleys in sea roving and in support of the major powers in times of war, but largely replaced them with xebecs, various sail/oar hybrids, and a few remaining light galleys in the early 17th century.\n\nNo large all galley battles were fought after the gigantic clash at Lepanto in 1571, and galleys were mostly used as cruisers or for supporting sailing warships as a rearguard in fleet actions, similar to the duties performed by frigates outside the Mediterranean. They could assist damaged ships out of the line, but generally only in very calm weather, as was the case at the Battle of Málaga in 1704. For small states and principalities as well as groups of private merchants, galleys were more affordable than large and complex sailing warships, and were used as defense against piracy. Galleys required less timber to build, the design was relatively simple and they carried fewer guns. They were tactically flexible and could be used for naval ambushes as well amphibious operations. They also required few skilled seamen and were difficult for sailing ships to catch, but vital in hunting down catching other galleys and oared raiders.\n\nThe largest galley fleets in the 17th century were operated by the two major Mediterranean powers, France and Spain. France had by the 1650s become the most powerful state in Europe, and expanded its galley forces under the rule of the absolutist \"Sun King\" Louis XIV. In the 1690s the French galley corps (\"Corps des galères\") reached its all-time peak with more than 50 vessels manned by over 15,000 men and officers, becoming the largest galley fleet in the world at the time. Though there was intense rivalry between France and Spain, not a single galley battle occurred between the two great powers during this period, and virtually no naval battles between other nations either. During the War of the Spanish Succession, French galleys were involved in actions against Antwerp and Harwich, but due to the intricacies of alliance politics there were never any Franco-Spanish galley clashes. In the first half of the 18th century, the other major naval powers in the Mediterranean Sea, the Order of Saint John based in Malta and of the Papal States in central Italy, cut down drastically on their galley forces. Despite the lack of action, the galley corps received vast resources (25-50% of the French naval expenditures) during the 1660s. It was maintained as a functional fighting force right up until its abolishment in 1748, though its primary function was more of a symbol of Louis XIV's absolutist ambitions.\n\nThe last recorded battle in the Mediterranean where galleys played a significant part was at Matapan in 1717, between the Ottomans and Venice and its allies, though they had little influence on the final outcome. Few large-scale naval battles were fought in the Mediterranean throughout most of the remainder of the 18th century. The Tuscan galley fleet was dismantled around 1718, Naples had only four old vessels by 1734 and the French Galley Corps had ceased to exist as an independent arm in 1748. Venice, the Papal States and the Knights of Malta were the only state fleets that maintained galleys, though in nothing like their previous quantities. By 1790, there were fewer than 50 galleys in service among all the Mediterranean powers, half of which belonged to Venice.\n\nOared vessels remained in use in northern waters for a long time, though in subordinate role and in particular circumstances. In the Italian Wars, French galleys brought up from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic posed a serious threat to the early English Tudor navy during coastal operations. The response came in the building of a considerable fleet of oared vessels, including hybrids with a complete three-masted rig, as well as a Mediterranean-style galleys (that were even attempted to be manned with convicts and slaves). Under King Henry VIII, the English navy used several kinds of vessels that were adapted to local needs. English \"galliasses\" (very different from the Mediterranean vessel of the same name) were employed to cover the flanks of larger naval forces while \"pinnaces\" and \"rowbarges\" were used for scouting or even as a backup for the longboats and tenders for the larger sailing ships. During the Dutch Revolt (1566–1609) both the Dutch and Spanish found galleys useful for amphibious operations in the many shallow waters around the Low Countries where deep-draft sailing vessels could not enter.\n\nWhile galleys were too vulnerable to be used in large numbers in the open waters of the Atlantic, they were well-suited for use in much of the Baltic Sea by Denmark, Sweden, Russia and some of the Central European powers with ports on the southern coast. There were two types of naval battlegrounds in the Baltic. One was the open sea, suitable for large sailing fleets; the other was the coastal areas and especially the chain of small islands and archipelagos that ran almost uninterrupted from Stockholm to the Gulf of Finland. In these areas, conditions were often too calm, cramped and shallow for sailing ships, but they were excellent for galleys and other oared vessels. Galleys of the Mediterranean type were first introduced in the Baltic Sea around the mid-16th century as competition between the Scandinavian states of Denmark and Sweden intensified. The Swedish galley fleet was the largest outside the Mediterranean, and served as an auxiliary branch of the army. Very little is known about the design of Baltic Sea galleys, except that they were overall smaller than in the Mediterranean and they were rowed by army soldiers rather than convicts or slaves.\n\nGalleys were introduced to the Baltic Sea in the 16th century but the details of their designs are lacking due to the absence of records. They might have been built in a more regional style, but the only known depiction from the time shows a typical Mediterranean vessel. There is conclusive evidence that Denmark became the first Baltic power to build classic Mediterranean-style galleys in the 1660s, though they proved to be generally too large to be useful in the shallow waters of the Baltic archipelagos. Sweden and especially Russia began to launch galleys and various rowed vessels in great numbers during the Great Northern War in the first two decades of the 18th century. Sweden was late in the game when it came to building an effective oared fighting fleet, while the Russian galley forces under Tsar Peter I developed into a supporting arm for the sailing navy and a well-functioning auxiliary of the army which infiltrated and conducted numerous raids on the eastern Swedish coast in the 1710s.\n\nSweden and Russia became the two main competitors for Baltic dominance in the 18th century, and built the largest galley fleets in the world at the time. They were used for amphibious operations in Russo-Swedish wars of 1741–43 and 1788–90. The last galleys ever constructed were built in 1796 by Russia, and remained in service well into the 19th century, but saw little action. The last time galleys were deployed in action was when the Russian navy was attacked in Åbo (Turku) in 1854 as part of the Crimean War. In the second half of the 18th century, the role of Baltic galleys in coastal fleets was replaced first with hybrid \"archipelago frigates\" (such as the turuma or pojama) and xebecs, and after the 1790s with various types of gunboats.\n\nBoth the Russian and Swedish navies were based on a form of conscription, and both navies used conscripts as galley rowers. This had several advantages over convicts or slaves: the rowers could be armed to fight as marines, they could be also used as land soldiers and invasion force, and they could be taught better and more skilled than convicts or slaves. Since most naval conscripts came from coastal parishes and towns, most were already experienced seafarers when they entered the service.\n\nVarious types of indigenous galley-like vessels are used in Southeast Asia, namely: lancaran, penjajap, kelulus, lanong, garay, kora-kora, and karakoa. During the turn of the 16th century, mediterranean influence came, mainly by Ottoman influences of sultanates in Nusantaran archipelago. A royal galley (\"ghali kenaikan raja\") of the Malacca sultanate that was built approximately in 1453 is called \"Mendam Berahi\" (Malay for \"Suppressed Passion\"). It was 60 \"gaz\" (54.6 m) long and 6 \"depa\" (11 m) wide. This ghali had 3 masts and could carry 400 men; 200 of them were rowers in 50 rowing line. It was armed with 5 bow-mounted \"rentaka\" and ramming beam.\n\nAcehnese in 1568 siege of Portuguese Malacca used 4 large galley 40-50 meter long each with 190 rowers and 3 masts. They were armed with 12 large camelos (3 at each bow side, 4 at stern), 1 basilisk (bow-mounted), 12 falcons, and 40 swivel guns. By then cannons, firearms, and other war material had come annually from Jeddah, and the Turks also sent military expert, master of galleys, and technicians. In 1575 siege, Aceh used 40 two-masted galleys with Turkish captains carrying 200-300 soldier of Turk, Arab, Deccanis, and Aceh origins. The state galleys of Aceh, Daya, and Pedir is said to carry 10 \"meriam\", 50 \"lela\", and 120 \"cecorong\" (not counting the \"ispinggar\"). Smaller galley carry 5 \"meriam\", 20 \"lela\", and 50 \"cecorong\". Western and native sources mention that Aceh had 100-120 galleys at any time (not counting the smaller fusta and galiot), spread from Daya (west coast) to Pedir (east coast). One galley captured by Portuguese in 1629 is very large, and it was reported there were total 47 of them. She reached 100 m in length and 17 m in breadth, had 3 masts with square sails and topsails, propelled by 35 oars on each side and able to carry 700 men. It is armed with 98 guns: 18 large cannon (five 55-pounders at the bow, one 25-pounder at the stern, the rest were 17 and 18-pounders), 80 falcons and many swivel guns. The ship is called \"Espanto do Mundo\" (terror of the universe), which probably a free translation from \"Cakra Dunia\". The Portuguese reported that it was bigger than anything ever built in the Christian world, and that its castle could compete with that of galleons.\n\nTwo Dutch engravings from 1598 and 1601 depicted galley from Banten and Madura. They had 2 and 1 mast(s), respectively. Major difference from mediterranean galleys, Nusantaran galley had raised fighting platform called \"balai\" in which the soldier stood, a feature common in warships of the region. Sultanate of Goa of mid 17th century had \"Galle\" 40 m long and 6 m breadth, carrying 200-400 men. Other \"galle\" of the kingdom varied between 23-35 m in length.\n\nGalleys have since their first appearance in ancient times been intended as highly maneuverable vessels, independent of winds by being rowed, and usually with a focus on speed under oars. The profile has therefore been that of a markedly elongated hull with a ratio of breadth to length at the waterline of at least 1:5, and in the case of ancient Mediterranean galleys as much as 1:10 with a small draught, the measurement of how much of a ship's structure that is submerged under water. To make it possible to efficiently row the vessels, the freeboard, the height of the railing to the surface of the water, was by necessity kept low. This gave oarsmen enough leverage to row efficiently, but at the expense of seaworthiness. These design characteristics made the galley fast and maneuverable, but more vulnerable to rough weather.\n\nThe documentary evidence for the construction of ancient galleys is fragmentary, particularly in pre-Roman times. Plans and schematics in the modern sense did not exist until the 17th century and nothing like them has survived from ancient times. How galleys were constructed has therefore been a matter of looking at circumstantial evidence in literature, art, coinage and monuments that include ships, some of them actually in natural size. Since the war galleys floated even with a ruptured hull and virtually never had any ballast or heavy cargo that could sink them, not a single wreckage of one has so far been found. The only exception has been a partial wreckage of a small Punic liburnian from the Roman era, the Marsala Ship.\n\nOn the funerary monument of the Egyptian king Sahure (2487–2475 BC) in Abusir, there are relief images of vessels with a marked sheer (the upward curvature at each end of the hull) and seven pairs of oars along its side, a number that was likely to have been merely symbolical, and steering oars in the stern. They have one mast, all lowered and vertical posts at stem and stern, with the front decorated with an Eye of Horus, the first example of such a decoration. It was later used by other Mediterranean cultures to decorate seagoing craft in the belief that it helped to guide the ship safely to its destination. These early galleys apparently lacked a keel meaning they lacked stiffness along their length. Therefore, they had large cables connecting stem and stern resting on massive crutches on deck. They were held in tension to avoid hogging, or bending the ship's construction upwards in the middle, while at sea. In the 15th century BC, Egyptian galleys were still depicted with the distinctive extreme sheer, but had by then developed the distinctive forward-curving stern decorations with ornaments in the shape of lotus flowers. They had possibly developed a primitive type of keel, but still retained the large cables intended to prevent hogging.\nThe design of the earliest oared vessels is mostly unknown and highly conjectural. They likely used a mortise construction, but were sewn together rather than pinned together with nails and dowels. Being completely open, they were rowed (or even paddled) from the open deck, and likely had \"ram entries\", projections from the bow lowered the resistance of moving through water, making them slightly more hydrodynamic. The first true galleys, the triaconters (literally \"thirty-oarers\") and penteconters (\"fifty-oarers\") were developed from these early designs and set the standard for the larger designs that would come later. They were rowed on only one level, which made them fairly slow, likely only 5-5.5 knots. By the 8th century BC the first galleys rowed at two levels had been developed, among the earliest being the two-level penteconters which were considerably shorter than the one-level equivalents, and therefore more maneuverable. They were an estimated 25 m in length and displaced 15 tonnes with 25 pairs of oars. These could have reached an estimated top speed of up to 7.5 knots, making them the first genuine warships when fitted with bow rams. They were equipped with a single square sail on mast set roughly halfway along the length of the hull.\n\nBy the 5th century BC, the first \"triremes\" were in use by various powers in the eastern Mediterranean. It had now become a fully developed, highly specialized vessel of war that was capable of high speeds and complex maneuvers. At nearly 40 m in length, displacing almost 50 tonnes, it was more than three times as expensive as a two-level penteconter. A trireme also had an additional mast with a smaller square sail placed near the bow. Up to 170 oarsmen sat on three levels with one oar each that varied slightly in length. To accommodate three levels of oars, rowers sat staggered on three levels. Arrangements of the three levels are believed to have varied, but the most well-documented design made use of a projecting structure, or outrigger, where the oarlock in the form of a \"thole pin\" was placed. This allowed the outermost row of oarsmen enough leverage for full strokes that made efficient use of their oars.\nThe first dedicated war galleys fitted with rams were built with a mortise and tenon technique, a so-called \"shell-first\" method. In this, the planking of the hull was strong enough to hold the ship together structurally, and was also watertight without the need for caulking. Hulls had sharp bottoms without keelsons in order to support the structure and were reinforced by transverse framing secured with dowels with nails driven through them. To prevent the hull from hogging there was a \"hypozoma\", a thick cable that connected bow with stern. It was kept taut to add strength to the construction along its length, but its exact design or the method of tightening is not known. The ram, the primary weapon of ancient galleys from around the 8th to the 4th century, was not attached directly on the hull but to a structure extending from it. This way the ram could twist off if got stuck after ramming rather than breaking the integrity of the hull. The ram fitting consisted of a massive, projecting timber and the ram itself was a thick bronze casting with horizontal blades that could weigh from 400 kg up to 2 tonnes.\n\nGalleys from 4th century BC up to the time of the early Roman Empire in the 1st century AD became successively larger. Three levels of oars was the practical upper limit, but it was improved on by making ships longer, broader and heavier and placing more than one rower per oar. Naval conflict grew more intense and extensive, and by 100 BC galleys with four, five or six rows of oarsmen were commonplace and carried large complements of soldiers and catapults. With high freeboard (up to 3 m) and additional tower structures from which missiles could be shot down onto enemy decks, they were intended to be like floating fortresses. Designs with everything from eight rows of oarsmen and upwards were built, but most of them are believed to have been impractical show pieces never used in actual warfare. Ptolemy IV, the Greek pharaoh of Egypt 221–205 BC, is recorded as building a gigantic ship with \"forty\" rows of oarsmen, though no specification of its design remains. One suggested design was that of a huge trireme catamaran with up to 14 men per oar and it is assumed that it was intended as a showpiece rather than a practical warship.\n\nWith the consolidation of Roman imperial power, the size of both fleets and galleys decreased considerably. The huge polyremes disappeared and the fleet were equipped primarily with triremes and liburnians, compact biremes with 25 pairs of oars that were well suited for patrol duty and chasing down raiders and pirates. In the northern provinces oared patrol boats were employed to keep local tribes in check along the shores of rivers like the Rhine and the Danube. As the need for large warships disappeared, the design of the trireme, the pinnacle of ancient war ship design, fell into obscurity and was eventually forgotten. The last known reference to triremes in battle is dated to 324 at the battle of the Hellespont. In the late 5th century the Byzantine historian Zosimus declared the knowledge of how to build them to have been long since forgotten.\n\nThe earliest medieval galley specification comes from an order of Charles I of Sicily, in 1275 AD. Overall length 39.30 m, keel length 28.03 m, depth 2.08 m. Hull width 3.67 m. Width between outriggers 4.45 m. 108 oars, most 6.81 m long, some 7.86 m, 2 steering oars 6.03 m long. Foremast and middle mast respectively heights 16.08 m, 11.00 m; circumference both 0.79 m, yard lengths 26.72 m, 17.29 m. Overall deadweight tonnage approximately 80 metric tons. This type of vessel had two, later three, men on a bench, each working his own oar. This vessel had much longer oars than the Athenian trireme which were 4.41 m & 4.66 m long. This type of warship was called \"galia sottil\".\n\nThe primary warship of the Byzantine navy until the 12th century was the dromon and other similar ship types. Considered an evolution of the Roman liburnian, the term first appeared in the late 5th century, and was commonly used for a specific kind of war-galley by the 6th century. The term \"dromōn\" (literally \"runner\") itself comes from the Greek root \"drom-(áō)\", \"to run\", and 6th-century authors like Procopius are explicit in their references to the speed of these vessels. During the next few centuries, as the naval struggle with the Arabs intensified, heavier versions with two or possibly even three banks of oars evolved.\n\nThe accepted view is that the main developments which differentiated the early dromons from the liburnians, and that henceforth characterized Mediterranean galleys, were the adoption of a full deck, the abandonment of rams on the bow in favor of an above-water spur, and the gradual introduction of lateen sails. The exact reasons for the abandonment of the ram are unclear. Depictions of upward-pointing beaks in the 4th-century \"Vatican Vergil\" manuscript may well illustrate that the ram had already been replaced by a spur in late Roman galleys. One possibility is that the change occurred because of the gradual evolution of the ancient shell-first construction method, against which rams had been designed, into the skeleton-first method, which produced a stronger and more flexible hull, less susceptible to ram attacks. At least by the early 7th century, the ram's original function had been forgotten.\n\nThe dromons that Procopius described were single-banked ships of probably 25 oars per side. Unlike ancient vessels, which used an outrigger, these extended directly from the hull. In the later bireme dromons of the 9th and 10th centuries, the two oar banks were divided by the deck, with the first oar bank was situated below, whilst the second oar bank was situated above deck; these rowers were expected to fight alongside the marines in boarding operations. The overall length of these ships was probably about 32 meters. The stern (\"prymnē\") had a tent that covered the captain's berth; the prow featured an elevated forecastle that acted as a fighting platform and could house one or more siphons for the discharge of Greek fire; and on the largest dromons, there were wooden castles on either side between the masts, providing archers with elevated firing platforms. The bow spur was intended to ride over an enemy ship's oars, breaking them and rendering it helpless against missile fire and boarding actions.\n\nFrom the 12th century, the design of war galleys evolved into the form that would remain largely the same until the building of the last war galleys in the late 18th century. The length to breadth-ratio was a minimum of 8:1. A rectangular \"telaro\", an outrigger, was added to support the oars and the rowers' benches were laid out in a diagonal herringbone pattern angled aft on either side of a central gangway, or \"corsia\". It was based on the form of the \"galea\", the smaller Byzantine galleys, and would be known mostly by the Italian term \"gallia sottila\" (literally \"slender galley\"). A second, smaller mast was added sometime in the 13th century and the number of rowers was rose from two to three rowers per bench as a standard from the late 13th to the early 14th century. The \"gallee sottili\" would make up the bulk the main war fleets of every major naval power in the Mediterranean, assisted by the smaller single-masted \"galiotte\", as well as the Christian and Muslim corsairs fleets. Ottoman galleys were very similar in design, though in general smaller, faster under sail, but slower under oars. The standard size of the galley remained stable from the 14th until the early 16th century, when the introduction of naval artillery began to have effects on design and tactics.\n\nThe traditional two side rudders were complemented with a stern rudder sometime after c. 1400 and eventually the side rudders disappeared altogether. It was also during the 15th century that large artillery pieces were first mounted on galleys. Burgundian records from the mid-15th century describe galleys with some form of guns, but do not specify the size. The first conclusive evidence of a large cannon mounted on a galley comes from a woodcut of a Venetian galley in 1486. The first guns were fixed directly on timbers in the bow and aimed directly forwards, a placement that would remain largely unchanged until the galley disappeared from active service in the 19th century.\nWith the introduction of guns in the bows of galleys, a permanent wooden structure called \"rambade\" (French: \"rambade\"; Italian: \"rambata\"; Spanish: \"arrumbada\") was introduced. The \"rambade\" became standard on virtually all galleys in the early 16th century. There were some variations in the navies of different Mediterranean powers, but the overall layout was the same. The forward-aiming battery was covered by a wooden platform which gave gunners a minimum of protection, and functioned as both a staging area for boarding attacks and as a firing platform for on-board soldiers. After its introduction, the rambade became a standard detail on every fighting galley until the very end of galley era in the early 19th century.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, galleys reached what has been described as their \"final form\". Galleys had looked more or less the same for over four centuries and a fairly standardized classification system for different sizes of galleys had been developed by the Mediterranean bureaucracies, based mostly on the number of benches in a vessel. A Mediterranean galley would have 25-26 pairs of oars with five men per oar (c. 250 rowers), 50-100 sailors and 50-100 soldiers for a total of about 500 men. The exceptions were the significantly larger \"flagships\" (often called \"lanternas\", \"lantern galleys\") that had 30 pairs of oars and up to seven rowers per oar. The armament consisted of one heavy 24- or 36-pounder gun in the bows flanked by two to four 4- to 12-pounders. Rows of light swivel guns were often placed along the entire length of the galley on the railings for close-quarter defense. The length-to-width ratio of the ships was about 8:1, with two main masts carrying one large lateen sail each. In the Baltic, galleys were generally shorter with a length-to-width ratio from 5:1 to 7:1, an adaptation to the cramped conditions of the Baltic archipelagos.\n\nA single mainmast was standard on most war galleys until c. 1600. A second, shorter mast could be raised temporarily in the bows, but became permanent by the early 17th century. It was stepped slightly to the side to allow for the recoil of the heavy guns; the other was placed roughly in the center of the ship. A third smaller mast further astern, akin to a mizzen mast, was also introduced on large galleys, possibly in the early 17th century, but was standard at least by the early 18th century. Galleys had little room for provisions and depended on frequent resupplying and were often beached at night to rest the crew and cook meals. Where cooking areas were actually present, they consisted of a clay-lined box with a hearth or similar cooking equipment fitted on the vessel in place of a rowing bench, usually on the port (left) side.\nThroughout their long history, galleys relied on rowing as the most important means of propulsion. The arrangement of rowers during the 1st millennium BC developed gradually from a single row up to three rows arranged in a complex, staggered seating arrangement. Anything above three levels, however, proved to be physically impracticable. Initially, there was only one rower per oar, but the number steadily increased, with a number of different combinations of rowers per oar and rows of oars. The ancient terms for galleys was based on the numbers of rows or rowers plying the oars, not the number of rows of oars. Today it is best known by a modernized Latin terminology based on numerals with the ending \"-reme\" from \"rēmus\", \"oar\". A \"trireme\" was a ship with three rows of oarsmen, a \"quadrireme\" four, a \"hexareme\" six, and so forth. There were warships that ran up to ten or even eleven rows, but anything above six was rare. A huge \"forty\"-rowed ship was built during the reign of Ptolemy IV in Egypt. Little is known about its design, but it is assumed to have been an impractical prestige vessel.\n\nAncient rowing was done in a fixed seated position, the most effective rowing position, with rowers facing the stern. A sliding stroke, which provided the strength from both legs as well as the arms, was suggested by earlier historians, but no conclusive evidence has supported it. Practical experiments with the full-scale reconstruction \"Olympias\" has shown that there was insufficient space, while moving or rolling seats would have been highly impractical to construct with ancient methods. Rowers in ancient war galleys sat below the upper deck with little view of their surroundings. The rowing was therefore managed by supervisors, and coordinated with pipes or rhythmic chanting. Galleys were highly maneuverable, able to turn on their axis or even to row backwards, though it required a skilled and experienced crew. In galleys with an arrangement of three men per oar, all would be seated, but the rower furthest inboard would perform a stand-and-sit stroke, getting up on his feet to push the oar forwards and then sitting down again to pull it back.\n\nThe faster a vessel travels, the more energy it uses. Reaching high speed requires energy which a human-powered vessel is incapable of producing. Oar system generate very low amounts of energy for propulsion (only about 70 W per rower) and the upper limit for rowing in a fixed position is around 10 knots. Ancient war galleys of the kind used in Classical Greece are by modern historians considered to be the most energy efficient and fastest of galley designs throughout history. A full-scale replica of a 5th-century BC trireme, the \"Olympias\" was built 1985–87 and was put through a series of trials to test its performance. It proved that a cruising speed of 7-8 knots could be maintained for an entire day. Sprinting speeds of up to 10 knots were possible, but only for a few minutes and would tire the crew quickly. Ancient galleys were built very light and the original triremes are assumed to never have been surpassed in speed. Medieval galleys are believed to have been considerably slower, especially since they were not built with ramming tactics in mind. A cruising speed of no more than 2-3 knots has been estimated. A sprint speed of up to 7 knots was possible for 20–30 minutes, but risked exhausting the rowers completely.\n\nRowing in headwinds or even moderately rough weather was difficult as well as exhausting. In high seas, ancient galleys would set sail to run before the wind. They were highly susceptible to high waves, and could become unmanageable if the rowing frame (\"apostis\") came awash. Ancient and medieval galleys are assumed to have sailed only with the wind more or less astern with a top speed of 8-9 knots in fair conditions.\n\nContrary to the popular image of rowers chained to the oars, conveyed by movies such as \"Ben Hur\", there is no evidence that ancient navies ever made use of condemned criminals or slaves as oarsmen, with the possible exception of Ptolemaic Egypt. Literary evidence indicates that Greek and Roman navies relied on paid labor or ordinary soldiers to man their galleys. Slaves were put at the oars only in times of extreme crisis. In some cases, these people were given freedom thereafter, while in others they began their service aboard as free men. Roman merchant vessels (usually sailing vessels) were manned by slaves, sometimes even with slaves as ship's master, but this was seldom the case in merchant galleys.\n\nIt was only in the early 16th century that the modern idea of the galley slave became commonplace. Galley fleets as well as the size of individual vessels increase in size, which required more rowers. The number of benches could not be increased without lengthening hulls beyond their structural limits, and more than three oars per bench was not practicable. The demand for more rowers also meant that the relatively limited number of skilled oarsmen could not keep up with the demand of large galley fleets. It became increasingly common to man galleys with convicts or slaves, which required a simpler method of rowing. The older method of employing professional rowers using the \"alla sensile\" method (one oar per man, with two to three sharing the same bench) was gradually phased out in favor of rowing \"a scaloccio\", which required less skill. A single large oar was used for each bench, with several rowers working it together and the number of oarsmen per oar rose from three up to five. In some very large command galleys, there could be as many as seven to an oar.\n\nAll major Mediterranean powers sentenced criminals to galley service, but initially only in time of war. Christian naval powers such as Spain frequently employed Muslim captives and prisoners of war. The Ottoman navy and its North African corsair allies often put Christian prisoners to the oars, but also mixed volunteers. Spain relied on mostly servile rowers, in great part because its organizational structure was geared toward employing slaves and convicts. Venice was one of few major naval powers that used almost only free rowers, a result of their reliance on \"alla sensile\" rowing which required skilled professional rowers. The Knights of Saint John used slaves extensively, as did the Papal States, Florence and Genoa. North African \"ghazi\" corsairs relied almost entirely on Christian slaves for rowers.\n\nIn ancient galleys under sail, most of the moving power came from a single square sail. It was rigged on a mast somewhat forwards of the center of the ship with a smaller mast carrying a head sail in the bow. Triangular lateen sails are attested as early as the 2nd century AD, and gradually became the sail of choice for galleys. By the 9th century lateens were firmly established as part of the standard galley rig. The lateen rig was more complicated and required a larger crew to handle than a square sail rig, but this was not a problem in the heavily manned galleys. Belisarius' Byzantine invasion fleet of 533 was at least partly fitted with lateen sails, making it probable that by the time the lateen had become the standard rig for the dromon, with the traditional square sail gradually falling from use in medieval navigation in the Mediterranean. Unlike a square sail rig, the spar of a lateen sail did not pivot around the mast. To change tacks, the entire spar had to be lifted over the mast and to the other side. Since the spar was often much longer than the mast itself, and not much shorter than the ship itself, it was a complex and time-consuming maneuver.\n\nIn the earliest times of naval warfare boarding was the only means of deciding a naval engagement, but little to nothing is known about the tactics involved. In the first recorded naval battle in history, the battle of the Delta, the forces of Egyptian Pharaoh Ramesses III won a decisive victory over a force made up of the enigmatic group known as the Sea Peoples. As shown in commemorative reliefs of the battle, Egyptian archers on ships and the nearby shores of the Nile rain down arrows on the enemy ships. At the same time Egyptian galleys engage in boarding action and capsize the ships of the Sea Peoples with ropes attached to grappling hooks thrown into the rigging.\n\nAround the 8th century BC, ramming began to be employed as war galleys were equipped with heavy bronze rams. Records of the Persian Wars in the early 5th century BC by the Ancient historian Herodotus (c. 484-25 BC) show that by this time ramming tactics had evolved among the Greeks. The formations adapted for ramming warfare could either be in columns in line ahead, one ship following the next, or in a line abreast, with the ships side by side, depending on the tactical situation and the surrounding geography. The primary methods for attack was either to break through the enemy formation or to outflank it. Ramming itself was done by smashing into the rear or side of an enemy ship, punching a hole in the planking. This did not actually sink an ancient galley unless it was heavily laden with cargo and stores. With a normal load, it was buoyant enough to float even with a breached hull. Breaking the enemy's oars was another way of rendering ships immobile, rendering them easier targets. If ramming was not possible or successful, the on-board complement of soldiers would attempt to board and capture the enemy vessel by securing it with grappling irons, accompanied by missile fire with arrows or javelins. Trying to set the enemy ship on fire by hurling incendiary missiles or by pouring the content of fire pots attached to long handles is thought to have been used, especially since smoke below decks would easily disable rowers. Rhodes was the first naval power to employ this weapon, sometime in the 3rd century, and used it to fight off head-on attacks or to frighten enemies into exposing their sides for a ramming attack.\n\nA successful ramming was difficult to achieve; just the right amount of speed and precise maneuvering were required. Fleets that did not have well-drilled, experienced oarsmen and skilled commanders relied more on boarding with superior infantry (such as increasing the complement to 40 soldiers). Ramming attempts were countered by keeping the bow towards the enemy until the enemy crew tired, and then attempting to board as quickly as possible. A double-line formation could be used to achieve a breakthrough by engaging the first line and then rushing the rearguard in to take advantage of weak spots in the enemy's defense. This required superiority in numbers, though, since a shorter front risked being flanked or surrounded.\n\nDespite the attempts to counter increasingly heavy ships, ramming tactics were gradually superseded in the last centuries BC by the Macedonians and Romans, both primarily land-based powers. Hand-to-hand fighting with large complements of heavy infantry supported by ship-borne catapults dominated the fighting style during the Roman era, a move that was accompanied by the conversion to heavier ships with larger rowing complements and more men per oar. Though effectively lowering mobility, it meant that less skill was required from individual oarsmen. Fleets thereby became less dependent on rowers with a lifetime of experience at the oar.\n\nBy late antiquity, in the 1st centuries AD, ramming tactics had completely disappeared along with the knowledge of the design of the ancient trireme. Medieval galleys instead developed a projection, or \"spur\", in the bow that was designed to break oars and to act as a boarding platform for storming enemy ships. The only remaining examples of ramming tactics were passing references to attempts to collide with ships in order to destabilize or capsize them.\n\nThe Byzantine navy, the largest Mediterranean war fleet throughout most of the early Middle Ages, employed crescent formations with the flagship in the center and the heavier ships at the horns of the formation, in order to turn the enemy's flanks. Similar tactics are believed to have been employed by the Arab fleets they frequently fought from the 7th century onwards. The Byzantines were the first to employ Greek fire, a highly effective incendiary liquid, as a naval weapon. It could be fired through a metal tube, or \"siphon\" mounted in the bows, similar to a modern flame thrower. The properties of Greek fire were close to that of napalm and was a key to several major Byzantine victories. By 835, the weapon had spread to the Arabs, who equipped \"harraqas\", \"fireships\", with it. The initial stages in naval battles was an exchanges of missiles, ranging from combustible projectiles to arrows, caltrops and javelins. The aim was not to sink ships, but to deplete the ranks of the enemy crews before the boarding commenced, which decided the outcome. Once the enemy strength was judged to have been reduced sufficiently, the fleets closed in, the ships grappled each other, and the marines and upper bank oarsmen boarded the enemy vessel and engaged in hand-to-hand combat. Byzantine dromons had pavesades, racks along the railings, on which marines could hang their shields, providing protection to the deck crew. Larger ships also had wooden castles on either side between the masts, which allowed archers to shoot from an elevated firing position.\nLater medieval navies continued to use similar tactics, with the line abreast formation as standard. As galleys were intended to be fought from the bows, and were at their weakest along the sides, especially in the middle. The crescent formation employed by the Byzantines continued to be used throughout the Middle Ages. It would allow the wings of the fleet to crash their bows straight into the sides of the enemy ships at the edge of the formation.\n\nRoger of Lauria (c. 1245–1305) was a successful medieval naval tactician who fought for the Aragon navy against French Angevin fleets in the War of the Sicilian Vespers. At the Battle of Malta in July 1283, he lured out Angevin galleys that were beached stern-first by openly challenging them. Attacking them in a strong defensive position head-on would have been very dangerous since it offered good cohesion, allowed rowers to escape ashore and made it possible to reinforce weak positions by transferring infantry along the shore. He also employed skilled crossbowmen and almogavars, light infantry, that were more nimbler in ship-to-ship actions than heavily armed and armored French soldiers. At the battle of the Gulf of Naples in 1284, his forces launched clay cooking pots filled with soap before attacking; when the pots broke against the enemy decks, they became perilously slippery and difficult for heavy infantry to keep their feet on.\n\nThe earliest guns were of large calibers, and were initially of wrought iron, which made them weak compared to cast bronze guns that would become standard in the 16th century. They were at first fixed directly on timbers in the bow, aiming directly forwards. This placement would remain largely unchanged until the galley disappeared from active service in the 19th century. The introduction of heavy guns and small arms did not change tactics considerably. If anything, it accentuated the bow as the offensive weapon, being both a staging area for boarders and the given position for small arms and cannons. The galley was capable of outperforming sailing vessel in early battles. It retained a distinct tactical advantage even after the initial introduction of naval artillery because of the ease with which it could be brought to bear upon an opposing vessel.\nIn large-scale galley-to-galley engagements, tactics remained essentially the same until the end of the 16th century. Cannons and small firearms were introduced around the 14th century, but did not have immediate effects on tactics; the same basic crescent formation in line abreast that was employed at the battle of Lepanto in 1571 was used by the Byzantine fleet almost a millennium earlier. Artillery on early gun galleys was not used as a long-range standoff weapon against other gun-armed ships. The maximum distance at which contemporary cannons were effective, c. 500 m (1600 ft), could be covered by a galley in about two minutes, much faster than the reload time of any heavy artillery. Gun crews would therefore hold their fire until the last possible moment, somewhat similar to infantry tactics in the pre-industrial era of short range firearms. The weak points of a galley remained the sides and especially the rear, the command center. Unless one side managed to outmaneuver the other, battle would be met with ships crashing into each other head on. Once fighting began with ships locking on to one another bow to bow, the fighting would be fought over the front line ships. Unless a galley was completely overrun by an enemy boarding party, fresh troops could be fed into the fight from reserve vessels in the rear.\n\nGalleys were used for purely ceremonial purposes by many rulers and states. In early modern Europe, galleys enjoyed a level of prestige that sailing vessels did not enjoy. Galleys had from an early stage been commanded by the leaders of land forces, and fought with tactics adapted from land warfare. As such, they enjoyed the prestige associated with land battles, the ultimate achievement of a high-standing noble or king. In the Baltic, the Swedish king Gustav I, the founder of the modern Swedish state, showed particular interest in galleys, as was befitting a Renaissance prince. Whenever traveling by sea, Gustav, the court, royal bureaucrats and the royal bodyguard would travel by galley. Around the same time, English king Henry VIII had high ambitions to live up to the reputation of the omnipotent Renaissance ruler and also had a few Mediterranean-style galleys built (and even manned them with slaves), though the English navy relied mostly on sailing ships at the time.\n\nDespite the rising importance of sailing warships, galleys were more closely associated with land warfare, and the prestige associated with it. British naval historian Nicholas Rodger has described this as display of \"the supreme symbol of royal power ... derived from its intimate association with armies, and consequently with princes\". This was put to perhaps its greatest effect by the French \"Sun King\", Louis XIV, in the form of a dedicated galley corps. Louis and the French state created a tool and symbol of royal authority that did little fighting, but was a potent extension of absolutist ambitions. Galleys were built to scale for the royal flotilla at the Grand Canal at Versailles for the amusement of the court. The royal galleys patrolled the Mediterranean, forcing ships of other states to salute the King's banner, convoyed ambassadors and cardinals, and obediently participating in naval parades and royal pageantry. Historian Paul Bamford described the galleys as vessels that \"must have appealed to military men and to aristocratic officers ... accustomed to being obeyed and served\".\nSentencing criminals, political dissenters and religious deviants as galley rowers also turned the galley corps into a large, feared, and cost-effective prison system. French Protestants were particularly ill-treated at the oar and though they were only a small minority, their experiences came to dominate the legacy of the king's galleys. In 1909, French author Albert Savine (1859–1927) wrote that \"[a]fter the Bastille, the galleys were the greatest horror of the old regime\". Long after convicts stopped serving in the galleys, and even after the reign of Napoleon, the term \"galérien\" (\"galley rower\") remained a symbolic general term for forced labor and convicts serving harsh sentences.\n\nBeing a galley rower did not carry such stigma at Baltic, where galley rowers were conscripts: rather they considered themselves as marine soldiers. The main building of the Finnish Naval Academy at Suomenlinna, Helsinki bears the nickname \"Kivikaleeri\" (\"Stone Galley\") as a legacy of the era.\n\nThe naval museum in Istanbul contains the galley \"Kadırga\" (Turkish for \"galley\", ultimately from Byzantine Greek \"katergon\"), dating from the reign of Mehmed IV (1648–1687). She was the personal galley of the sultan, and remained in service until 1839. She is presumably the only surviving galley in the world, albeit without its masts. It is 37 m long, 5.7 m wide, has a draught of about 2 m, weighs about 140 tons, and has 48 oars powered by 144 oarsmen.\n\nA 1971 reconstruction of the \"Real\", the flagship of John of Austria in the Battle of Lepanto (1571), is in the Museu Marítim in Barcelona. The ship was 60 m long and 6.2 m wide, had a draught of 2.1 m, weighing 239 tons empty, was propelled by 290 rowers, and carried about 400 crew and fighting soldiers at Lepanto. She was substantially larger than the typical galleys of her time.\n\nA group called \"The Trireme Trust\" operates, in conjunction with the Greek Navy, a reconstruction of an ancient Greek Trireme, the \"Olympias\".\n\n\"Ivlia\" is a replica Greek bireme built at Sochi on the Black Sea in 1989 which spent six seasons touring round Europe with volunteer crews.\n\nThe \"Nomos,\" another trireme originally built for Clash of the Titans, is preserved at Charlestown Shipwreck Museum in Cornwall.\n\nIn 1965, the remains of a small Venetian galley (fusta) sunk in 1509 were found in Lake Garda, Italy. The vessel had been burned and only the lower hull remained.\n\nIn the mid 1990s, a sunken medieval galley was found close to the island of San Marco in Boccalama, in the Venice Lagoon. The hull has been dated, for the context and the C14 analysis, between the end of the XIII and the beginning of the XIV century.\n\nThe excavation and the photogrammetric survey (photogrammetry) and 3D laser scanner of this important testimony of medieval nautical archaeology has started in 2001 through two complex executive phases. The stratigraphic excavation of the wreck was in fact performed entirely underwater, according to the archaeological methodologies. The survey of the hull was instead realized after the setting in dry the entire medieval perimeter of the submerged island. This operation took place through the infixation of a continuous barrier consisting of sheet piles and the use of water pumps. This long excavation and documentation campaign was directed by underwater archaeologist Marco D'Agostino and, as deputy director, by his colleague Stefano Medas.\n\nThe lower hull is mostly intact and it was not recovered due to high costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24843847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24843847", "title": "Gedaliah Alon", "text": "Gedaliah Alon\n\nGedaliah Alon (; 1901–1950) was an Israeli historian.\n\nGedaliah Rogoznitski (later Alon) was born in 1901 in Kobryn, Belarus (then in Russian-ruled Poland).\nIn 1924, he studied for a year at Berlin University and, in 1926, he emigrated to the British Mandate of Palestine and continued his studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He later joined the faculty of the Hebrew University.\n\nIn 1953, three years after his death, Alon was posthumously awarded the Israel Prize for Jewish studies, the inaugural year of the prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23186715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23186715", "title": "Harry Sidebottom", "text": "Harry Sidebottom\n\nHarry Sidebottom is a British author and historian, best known for his two series of historical novels the \"Warrior of Rome\", and \"Throne of the Caesars\". He will publish \"The Last Hour\" a new stand alone novel featuring Ballista, the hero of the \"Warrior of Rome\" series, in March 2018. He is Fellow and Tutor in Ancient History at St. Benet's Hall, Oxford, and lecturer at Lincoln College.\n\nSidebottom was born in Cambridge and brought up in Newmarket, Suffolk, where his father worked as a racehorse trainer. He attended Fairstead House School, Newmarket, and The King's School, Ely.\n\nSidebottom read Ancient History for his first degree, at Lancaster University (1977–1980). He was awarded an MPhil in 1982 from the University of Manchester and later a DPhil from the University of Oxford. He studied at Corpus Christi College, where he is a member of the senior common room. He has appeared as a presenter on the History Channel's \"Ancient Discoveries\".\n\nFrom the beginning Sidebottom intended the \"Warrior of Rome\" to be a series structured in trilogies. The first three volumes take place in the Middle East and subsequent arcs are set around the Black Sea, the Baltic, Sicily, North Africa, and Italy. Sidebottom stated he drew inspiration for the series from historical writer Tacitus and commented that he had based several of the series' elements on real people and events from history. The series has sold well, with \"Fire in the East\" selling over 100,000 copies and spending five weeks in the UK top 10 upon its release. Worldwide the series has sold over half a million copies.\n\nThe series centres on the Anglo-Roman soldier Marcus Clodius Ballista (a fictionalized version of Balista, a.k.a. Callistus, one of the Thirty Tyrants) as he must live through and survive the machinations of the Roman Empire and several of the crises of the second half of the third century AD.\n\nSidebottom has written another series set in ancient Rome and its empire called \"Throne of the Caesars\". The new trilogy is set 30 years before the first \"Warrior of Rome\" book in the reigns of Severus Alexander and Maximinus Thrax, (AD 235–38), beginning with the assassination of Alexander and the deaths of Pupienus and Balbinus. It was described by The Times of London as \"Absorbing and brilliant... Game of Thrones without the dragons\", and was praised by Bob Carr, the former Premier of NSW, in a review article in The Australian (19 November 2016) www.theaustralian.com.au/.../review/...throne-of-the-caesars/.../72b26335f1d45918d2...\nThe Last Hour\n\nA thriller set in the City of Rome. The hero has until sunset the next day to get across the eternal city, and save the Emperor. If he fails, his family will die. The Watch have orders to arrest him, while other sinister forces want him dead.\n\n\n\nThe Last Hour (Bonnier Zaffre, 2018)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4323796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4323796", "title": "Helge Sivertsen", "text": "Helge Sivertsen\n\nHelge Sivertsen (12 June 1913 – 21 December 1986) was a Norwegian school administrator and elected official. He was best known as a champion discus thrower in the 1936 Summer Olympics. \nHe was born at Mandal in Vest-Agder, Norway. He was the son of Nils Sivertsen (1877-1955) and Martha Heddeland (1883-1962).\nHis father was a college teacher and the family moved to Inderøy in 1926.\n\nHe attended folk school (\"Orkdal Landslymnas\") and took artium in 1933. Sivertsen was a historian by education. He studied at the University of Oslo and became cand.philol. in 1940 with a history major. From 1938-1939, he studied history, politics and international relations at University of Oxford under a Norwegian Oxford Scholarship.\n\nHe represented Inderøy IL in athletics competitions. He became Norwegian champion in discus throw in 1934 and 1935. At the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, he finished tenth in the discus final with a throw of 45.89 metres. His personal best throw was 47.72 metres, achieved in July 1936 at Bislett stadion in Oslo.\n\nDuring the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany (1940-1945), he was a member of Milorg. Sivertsen led the center's information service. After the liberation of Norway in 1945, he became secretary of the Military Investigation Commission of 1945 and wrote the history of Milorg activities during the war years. \n\nHis party affiliation was to the Labour Party.\nSivertsen pursued a career in politics, and was secretary to the Prime Minister Einar Gerhardsen in 1947, state secretary to the Minister of Education and Church Affairs from 1947 to 1956, and Minister of Education and Church Affairs from 1960 to 1965 in the third and fourth cabinet Gerhardsen, only interrupted by the short-lived cabinet of Prime Minister John Lyng in 1963.\nHe was director of education in Oslo, Akershus and Østfold from 1956 to 1960, in Oslo and Akershus from 1966 to 1970 and in Oslo from 1971. \nHe served as a member of the Board of the United States Educational Foundation in Norway from 1949-1956.\nHe was chairman of the Teacher Education Council 1957-1960 and of the State Scholarship Council 1955-1960. He retired in 1981.\nHe was married in 1940 with Merle Five (1914–2003), daughter of Håkon Five (1880–1944) who served as a Member of Parliament from Nord-Trøndelag.\n"}
{"id": "58014707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58014707", "title": "Ivan Shpitsberg", "text": "Ivan Shpitsberg\n\nIvan Anatolievich Shpitsberg (; 1880 — 1933), was a Russian lawyer, journalist, writer, organizer, and head of the scientific society and publishing house \"Atheist\" () (1921), editor of the eponymous magazine.\n\nShpitsberg graduated from the Faculty of Law at Saint Petersburg State University in 1906. On September 1, 1906, he became an assistant to a sworn attorney. On June 9, 1912, he became a sworn attorney in St. Petersburg. After February 1917, he worked as an official of the Holy Synod on divorce cases.\nAccording to information on March 13, 1917, he was an \"employee of the commissariat of the 4 sub-district of the Foundry District\" in Petrograd. From January to June 1918, he was \"chairman of the Marriage Department of the Foundry District Council\" of the Workers' Council and soldiers' deputies, also in Petrograd. Since 1918, he became an anti-religious lecturer-propagandist, and, at the same time, a comrade of the People's Commissar in Petrograd. He joined the ranks of the RCP (b), according to various sources, in May to July 1919.\n\nShpitsberg also took part in the publication of the magazine . On May 17, 1919, he began working in the VIII department of the People's Commissariat of Justice: first as an expert, and then (no later than May 1920) in its body on the most important cases. From December 1, 1920, to May 31, 1921, he served as the legal adviser of the Cheka. At the same time, he was an authorized officer of the Seventh Division of the Secret Department of the Cheka. Shpitsberg investigated led church processes in 1918-1920. He was Dismissed from the Cheka for defamation on June 10, 1921.\n\nIn 1921, he became the organizer and head of the scientific society and publishing house Atheist (). Under the guidance of Shpitsberg, a library of atheistic literature of foreign authors was created, and the books were translated by P. Holbach, A. Drews, J. Robertson, G. Daumer, J. Fraser, L. Taxil, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56721443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56721443", "title": "Ivanka Madunić Kuzmanović", "text": "Ivanka Madunić Kuzmanović\n\nIvanka Madunić Kuzmanović is a Croatian poet and historian. She lives and works as a history professor in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nShe attended the Split Gymnasium and studied at the University of Zagreb. In April 1973, the PGP Radio Kruševac label released her vinyl \"Vojvodino ravna\" with two singles in a duo with Dragoslava Genčić and Tambura Orchestra RTV Novi Sad.\n\nShe is a member and president of New York's branch of the HIL—an association of Croatian poets in diaspora—which publishes her collections of poems.\n\nShe is a regular participant of HIL's poem nights and meetings in Croatia and worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "152717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=152717", "title": "James Burke (science historian)", "text": "James Burke (science historian)\n\nJames Burke (born 22 December 1936) is a British broadcaster, science historian, author, and television producer, who is known, among other things, for his documentary television series \"Connections\" (1978), and for its more philosophically oriented companion series, \"The Day the Universe Changed\" (1985), which is about the history of science and technology. \"The Washington Post\" has called him \"one of the most intriguing minds in the Western world\".\n\nBurke was born in Derry, Northern Ireland, and was educated at Maidstone Grammar School and at Jesus College, Oxford, where he earned an M.A. degree in Middle English. Upon graduation he moved to Italy, where at the British School in Bologna he was lecturer in English and director of studies, 1961–63. He also lectured at the University of Urbino. Thereafter he was headmaster of the English School in Rome, 1963–65. He was also involved in the creation of an English–Italian dictionary, and the publication of an art encyclopedia.\n\nBurke's entry into television was explained by the American \"People\" magazine in 1979: \"Television beckoned by chance one day on a Rome bus. Spotting an ad for a reporter for the local bureau of Britain's Granada TV, he says, 'I decided if the bus stopped at the next corner I would get off and apply for the job.' It did, he did, and the next thing he knew 'we went straight off to Sicily to do a series on the Mafia.'\"\n\nIn 1966, he moved to London and joined the Science and Features Department of the BBC, for which he was host or co-host of several programmes. He also worked as an instructor in English as a Foreign Language at the Regency Language School in Ramsgate.\n\nBurke established his reputation as a reporter on the BBC1 science series \"Tomorrow's World\" and went on to present \"The Burke Special\". He was BBC television's science anchorman and chief reporter for the Apollo missions, as the main presenter of the BBC's coverage of the first moon landing in 1969.\n\nIn collaboration with Mick Jackson, he produced the ten-part documentary series \"Connections\" (1978), which was first broadcast on the BBC, and subsequently on PBS in the United States. \"Connections\" traced the historical relationships between invention and discovery: each episode chronicled a particular path of technological development. \"Connections\" was the most-watched PBS television series up to that time. It was followed by the twenty-part \"Connections\" (1994) and the ten-part \"Connections\" (1997). \"Connections: An Alternative View of Change\" was broadcast in more than fifty countries and the companion book \"Connections: An Alternative History of Technology\" (1978) sold well.\n\nIn 1980, Burke and Jackson produced the six-part BBC series \"The Real Thing\", about perception.\n\nIn 1985, Burke, with Richard Reisz and John Lynch, produced the ten-part series \"The Day the Universe Changed\" (revised 1995), which concentrated on the philosophical aspects of scientific change in Western culture.\n\nBurke has also been a regular writer for \"Scientific American\" and \"Time\", and a consultant to the SETI project.\n\nBurke has received the gold and the silver medals of the Royal Television Society. In 1998 he was made an honorary fellow of the Society for Technical Communication.\n\nBurke has also contributed to podcasts, such as in 2008 when he appeared on Hardcore History with Dan Carlin, and in 2016 on Common Sense with Dan Carlin, and to newspaper articles including two series for the Mogollon Connection by Jesse Horn, one focusing on the nature of morality, the other on the future of our youth.\n\nBurke presented a monologue \"James Burke on the End of Scarcity\", first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 26 December 2017, in which he predicted nanotech-manufacturing would revolutionize the world economy and society.\n\nBurke is the leading figure in the development of the \"Knowledge Web\", to be the digital realization of his books and television programmes, and which will allow the user to travel through history and create his or her own connections. Eventually, the project may feature immersive virtual-reality historical recreations of people, places, and events.\n\nBurke is developing a mobile app called Connections which aims to allow users to make searches in Wikipedia in ways that could lead them to develop mind associations and connections of apparently unrelated fields of knowledge or topics. Surprises, anomalies, and unexpected perspectives on a search can emerge from using the app. According to Burke, the Connections app is an alternative and innovative method to more linear internet search engines such as Google.\n\nIn an article for the \"Radio Times\" in 1973, Burke predicted the widespread use of computers for business decisions, the creation of metadata banks of personal information, and changes in human behaviour, such as greater willingness to reveal personal information to strangers. In an interview on the \"PM\" programme on BBC Radio 4 on 30 August 2013, Burke discussed his predictions of a post-scarcity economy driven by advances in nanofactories, which he believes may be viable by the year 2043.\n\nBurke posed at least one of his predictions within a question. In \"Connections\", he pointed out that the increase in possible connections over time causes the process of innovation to not only continue, but also to accelerate. So, what happens when this rate of innovation, or more importantly 'change' itself, \"becomes too much for the average person to handle\", and what does this mean for individual power, liberty, and privacy?\n\nIn the conclusion of \"Connections\", Burke said that computing and communications might be controlled by a computer science élite. Later, in addition to this, he suggested in the conclusion of \"The Day the Universe Changed\" that a worldwide revolution in communications and computer technology would allow people to instantaneously exchange ideas and opinions.\n\nTelevision series and documentaries by James Burke:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45416584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45416584", "title": "Jan Roegiers", "text": "Jan Roegiers\n\nJan Roegiers (1944–2013) was a professor at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, and also university archivist, librarian and curator. He specialised in early modern academic history, and in particular the history of the pre-1797 University of Leuven. During his lifetime he was \"generally regarded as one of the most authoritative voices in the world of academic history, archive and library science and the heritage sector in Belgium.\" He is also credited with giving the newly established Flemish university (an independent institution only from 1968) a sense of historical continuity with Leuven's past.\n\nJan Roegiers was born in Sleidinge, East Flanders, on 19 October 1944. He attended the Sint-Vincentiuscollege in Eeklo and from there entered the diocesan seminary in Ghent. After a short time in the seminary he enrolled at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, where he completed degrees in History and in library and archive science.\n\nHe became a senior lecturer in the faculty of Arts and the faculty of Theology, chief archivist of the university (1975–2009), head of Leuven University Library (1981–1996), and curator of the university's art collection (1983–2009).\n\nHe was director of the \"Revue d'histoire ecclésiastique\" (1990-2009), chair of the editorial board of \"LIAS: Journal of Early Modern Intellectual Culture and its Sources\" (1993-2009), and chair of the editorial board of \"Trajecta\" (1998-2009). He was a moving influence on the early stages of the Flemish short-title catalogue (STCV).\n\nRoegiers gave his valedictory lecture, on academic heritage and university history, on 19 February 2010. On the same occasion he was presented with a Festschrift celebrating his career, \"The Quintessence of Lives: Intellectual Biographies in the Low Countries presented to Jan Roegiers\", edited by P. Delsaerdt, H. Schwall, D. Vanysacker, and J.-P. Delville (Brepols, 2010). His retirement was marked with a special exhibition in Leuven University's Central Library, \"Anima Academiae Bibliotheca\", from 10 June to 25 August 2010.\n\nRoegiers died on 12 July 2013 and was buried on 19 July in the Sint-Jan-de-Doperkerk in Leuven. The reading room of the university archive was named \"Jan Roegiers reading room\" in his memory.\n"}
{"id": "1908561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908561", "title": "Karl August Wittfogel", "text": "Karl August Wittfogel\n\nKarl August Wittfogel (; 6 September 1896 – 25 May 1988) was a German-American playwright, historian, and sinologist. Originally a Marxist and an active member of the Communist Party of Germany, after the Second World War Wittfogel was an equally fierce anti-communist.\n\nKarl August Wittfogel was born 6 September 1896 at Woltersdorf, in Lüchow, Province of Hanover. Wittfogel left school in 1914. He studied philosophy, history, sociology, geography at Leipzig University and also in Munich, Berlin and Rostock and in 1919 again in Berlin. From 1921 he studied sinology in Leipzig. In between Wittfogel was drafted into a Signal Corps Unit (\"Fernmeldeeinheit\") in 1917\n\nBefore the First World War, he was the leader of the Lüneburg Wandervogel group. In 1918, he set up the Lüneburg local of the radical Independent Social Democratic Party of Germany (USPD). In 1920, he joined the Communist Party of Germany (KPD). Wittfogel met Karl Korsch in 1920 and was invited to the 1923 conference that helped establish the Institute for Social Research and from 1925 to 1933 was a member of the Institute. He received his Ph.D. from the Frankfurter Universität in 1928. Wittfogel was always an active and faithful member of the communist party and a vocal critic of all its enemies. When Hitler came to power in 1933, Wittfogel tried to escape to Switzerland, but was arrested and interned in prisons and concentration camps. An international outcry led to his freedom in 1934.\n\nHe left Germany for England and then the United States. Wittfogel's belief in the Soviet Union was destroyed with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, and he began to hate the totalitarian, \"asiatic\" nature of Soviet and Chinese Communism from Lenin to Mao. He turned against his former comrades and denounced some of them, as well as American scholars such as Owen Lattimore and Moses I. Finley, at the McCarran Committee hearings in 1951. He came to believe that the state-owned economies of the Soviet bloc inevitably led to despotic governments even more oppressive than those of \"traditional Asia\" and that those regimes were the greatest threat to the future of all mankind.\n\nIn 1921 Wittfogel married Rose Schlesinger. Wittfogel's second wife was the sociologist Olga (Joffe) Lang, a Russian sociologist who traveled with him to China and collaborated with him on a project to analyze the Chinese family. Lang later published a monograph on the Chinese family and a biography of the anarchist writer, Ba Jin. Anthropologist Esther Schiff Goldfrank became Wittfogel's wife in 1940. Wittfogel held academic positions at Columbia University from 1939 and was professor for Chinese history at the University of Washington from 1947 to 1966. He died of pneumonia on May 25, 1988 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Wittfogel wrote a number of communist, but also somewhat expressionistic, plays: \"The Cripple\", performed with other short plays on October 14, 1920 at Erwin Piscator's Berlin Proletarian Theatre, and \"Red Soldiers\", \"The Man Who Has an Idea\", \"The Mother\", \"The Refugee\", \"The Skyscraper\" and \"Who is the Biggest Fool?\", all of which were published by \"Malik\". Wittfogel declined an offer to become the dramatic producer of the revolutionary Volksbühne (People's Stage) in Berlin, because he wanted to concentrate on his academic studies. He published some long Hegelian essays on aesthetics and literature in \"Die Linkskurve\", journal of the Association of Proletarian Revolutionary Writers, and was a member of its editorial staff from April 1930.\n\nWittfogel is best known for his monumental work \"\", first published in 1957. Starting from a Marxist analysis of the ideas of Max Weber on China and India's \"hydraulic-bureaucratic official-state\" and building on Marx's sceptical view of the Asiatic Mode of Production, Wittfogel came up with an analysis of Oriental despotism which emphasized the role of irrigation works, the bureaucratic structures needed to maintain them and the impact that these had on society, coining the term \"hydraulic empire\" to describe the system. In his view, many societies, mainly in Asia, relied heavily on the building of large-scale irrigation works. To do this, the state had to organize forced labor from the population at large. As only a centralized administration could organize the building and maintenance of large-scale systems of irrigation, the need for such systems made bureaucratic despotism inevitable in so-called Oriental lands. This structure was uniquely placed to also crush civil society and any other force capable of mobilizing against the state. Such a state would inevitably be despotic, powerful, stable and wealthy. Wittfogel believed this hydraulic hypothesis applied to Russia under the Soviet Union.\n\nThe sinologist Frederick W. Mote, however, strongly disagreed with Wittfogel's analysis, but others, such as Barrington Moore, George Lichtheim and especially Pierre Vidal-Naquet are among those who found the thesis stimulating. F. Tökei, Gianni Sofri, Maurice Godelier and Wittfogel's estranged pupil Lawrence Krader, then Maoist F. Kramer or Claus Leggewie/Helmut Raich concentrated on the concept. Two Berlin leaders of the SDS student movement, Rudi Dutschke and Bernd Rabehl, have published on these themes. Then East German dissident Rudolf Bahro later said that his \"Alternative in Eastern Europe\" was based on ideas of Wittfogel, but because of the latter's later anti-communism, Wittfogel could not be mentioned by name. Bahro's later ecological ideas, recounted in \"From Red to Green\" and elsewhere were likewise inspired by Wittfogel's geographical determinism.\n\nThe Hydraulic Society thesis was also taken up by ecological anthropologists such as Marvin Harris. Further applications of the thesis included that to Mayan society, when aerial photographs revealed the network of canals in the Mayan areas of Yucatan. Critics have denied that Ceylon or Bali are truly hydraulic in the Wittfogel sense.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46865753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46865753", "title": "Karl Bittel", "text": "Karl Bittel\n\nKarl Bittel (22 June 1892 – 18 April 1969) was a German left-wing Historian and Journalist.\n\nKarl Bittel was born in Darmstadt. His father was a bank worker. He attended school at Freiburg in the south-west of Germany, across the Rhine from Mulhouse. He passed his school final exams in 1911. By that time he had already co-founded a Freiburg Wandervogel youth group, for which he produced a news-sheet. Then, between 1911 and 1915, he studied Economics (\"\"), Law and History at the universities of Heidelberg, Freiburg and Tübingen. It was while he was at Tübingen that he joined the , a (relatively) forward looking student fraternity. He received his doctorate from Tübingen in 1915 for a dissertation on the consumer-co-operative movement pioneer, Eduard Pfeiffer.\n\nBittel was a volunteer contributor to the \"Freiburger Volksstimme\", a local newspaper at the popular end of the political spectrum, and served between 1913 and 1916 as Secretary for Consumers Club in nearby Esslingen. At the same time he was publishing articles on the Co-Operative movement. In August 1914 war had broken out, and it ended in November 1918 with military defeat for Germany and her allies. During the revolutionary year that ensued in Germany Bittel was a member of the Council in Karlsruhe. In 1919 Bittel became a member of the newly established German Communist Party.\n\nHe became a lecturer at the Party Main Academy in Jena in 1920, and then editor of a Chemnitz based newspaper called \"Kämpfer\" (\"Fighters\"). This was just one of a succession of radical left-wing journals which he produced or for which he was writing during this time. The early 1920s saw a splintering on the political left in Germany, triggered in part by contrasting reactions to the fast moving political events in the Soviet Union, but Bittel remained true to the mainstream Communist Party through the period, becoming head of the Party Central Committee's \"Co-operatives Department\" in 1922. 1922 was also the year in which he became, in November, a Communist Party member of the town council in Weißenfels.\nIn 1923 he was a delegate to the Comintern's First World Congress of Farmers' organisation (identified in some sources as \"Krestintern\"). Bittel then remained in the Soviet Union, till 1927 working as Secretary to the Comintern's Co-Operative section. In August 1927 he returned to Germany. In 1928 he took charge of the administration office for Soviet trade representation, and then, from 1930 till (formally) April 1933 at the Berlin-based successor Soviet-German organisation known as DEROP AG. Régime change came to Germany in January 1933 and the new Chancellor lost little time in moving the country towards one-party dictatorship. Membership of alternative political parties became illegal, with the Communists a particular target for state persecution. During the early months of 1933 Karl Bittel left Berlin and settled in Bodman-Ludwigshafen. It was in his new home in a village on the shores of the Bodensee that Bittel was arrested by the Gestapo in May 1933. He spent the next year or so in detention in concentration camps at Heuberg and then just outside .\n\nHe was released in 1934. Unlike many Communists, he was able to remain in Germany during the twelve years of Nazi rule, but there is no evidence of his having engaged in any sort of political activity during this time. He was able to live unmolested in his remote lake-side village, focusing on academic research. He was even able to have some of his work published: a work involving Paracelsus was printed in 1942.\n\nIn May 1945 war ended. What remained of Germany was divided up into four occupation zones, in which membership of the Communist Party was no longer illegal. Bittel now joined the Party Secretariat and the party's regional leadership team for Baden, where he also became Chairman of the Baden branch of the Union of Persecutees of the Nazi Regime, a post he held till Summer 1949. In addition, in 1946 he co-founded a Communist Newspaper based in Offenburg, entitled \"Unser Tag\" (\"Our Day\"), becoming \"licence holder\" and editor in chief of the publication till 1948.\n\nBy 1949 it had become clear that whatever the future might hold for Germany, the portion of it under Soviet administration was developing very differently from the zones occupied by the other three victorious wartime powers. As the Soviet blockade of West Berlin was lifted, in May 1949 the US, British and American zones were combined and re-founded as the German Federal Republic. Bittel's prompt reaction was to relocate the same month from what was now designated West Germany, to the Soviet occupation zone, which itself would be re-founded a few months later, in October, as the Soviet sponsored German Democratic Republic. Between 1949 and 1957 Bittel served as deputy head, and then from 1951 as head of the .\n\nFrom 1951 till 1953 he also held office as the Senior Chairman of the (East) German Union of Journalists. He was made an honorary professor at the \"Karl Marx University\" (as it was then know) in Leipzig, and in 1957 became a full professor, with a teaching position, at the Humboldt University of Berlin. That year he was also invited to present a series of guest lectures in the Soviet Union. In 1958 his job portfolio was boosted with a special advisory post to the East German Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Between 1963 and 1969 he also belonged to the Presidium of the Rostock branch of the national Culture Association.\n\nBittel was one of a small but determined group of like-minded historians who promoted the orienting of historical seminars and institutions according to the precepts of East Germany's ruling Socialist Unity Party (SED / \"Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands\"). This was seen as necessary because, especially in the early years of the German Democratic Republic, the country's mainstream historians were drawn, for the most part, from outside the Marxist historical tradition. Nevertheless, in the judgement of Lothar Mertens, Karl Bittel - along with colleagues such as Horst Bartel, Walter Bartel, Rudolf Lindau and Albert Schreiner - lacked the necessary skill and rigour sufficiently to distance their academic output from the category of \"mere\" party propaganda.\n"}
{"id": "6242799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242799", "title": "Legist", "text": "Legist\n\nA Legist, from the Latin \"lex\" 'law', is any expert or student of law.\n\nIt was especially used since the Carolingian dynasty for royal councillors who advised the monarch in legal matters, and specifically helped base its absolutist ambitions on Roman Law. More generally they were teachers of civil or Roman law, who, besides expounding sources, explaining terms, elucidating texts, summarizing the contents of chapters etc., illustrated by cases, real or imaginary, the numerous questions and distinctions arising out of the \"Corpus Juris\" enactments of the ancient Roman code.\nFrom the twelfth century, when a fresh impulse was given to legal researches, the terms legist and decretist -- the latter applied, in the narrower sense, to the interpreter of ecclesiastical canon law and commentator on the canonical texts—have been carefully distinguished.\nLegists came to be employed by lower authorities in the feudal pyramid. The rise of universities would lead to academical lawyers taking their place in the western world.\n\nBy analogy, the term is also applied to equivalent legal advisers in other traditions, e.g. in Islamic law and/or civil law of the Ottoman Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "54676729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54676729", "title": "List of Chancellors of Burgundy", "text": "List of Chancellors of Burgundy\n\nList of Chancellors of Burgundy, as found in the Trophées tant sacrées que profanes du Duché de Brabant.\nThe chancellor was one of the most powerful keypersons of Burgundy\n"}
{"id": "15873429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15873429", "title": "Moses Rischin", "text": "Moses Rischin\n\nMoses Rischin (born 1925) is an American Jewish historian, author, lecturer, editor, and emeritus professor of history at San Francisco State University. He coined the phrase new Mormon history in a 1969 article of the same name. Rischin is from New York City. His undergraduate studies were at Brooklyn College. Harvard University awarded him a PhD in 1957. In addition to his professorship, he sits on the board for the \"Journal of American Ethnic History\" and on the council of the American Jewish History Society. There is an annual lecture given in his honor at the Western Jewish History Center, where he is director. There is a collection of historical essays published in Rischin's honor, and a supporting character, Meyer Meyer in the 87th Precinct series, may have been partly modeled after him.\n\nRischin is considered an authority on American ethnic and immigration history and a pioneer in the field of American Jewish history. Historian Selma Berrol, however, has challenged the minimal treatment Rischin has given to the tensions between earlier German Jews and later Russian Jews in America.\n\nDuring the Monica Lewinsky scandal, Rischin was a signatory of \"Historians in Defense of the Constitution\" wherein 400 historians criticized efforts to impeach President Bill Clinton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30238511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30238511", "title": "Om Prakash (historian)", "text": "Om Prakash (historian)\n\nOm Prakash (born January 1940, in Delhi) is an Indian economic historian. He is noted for his work on the Dutch East India company in Bengal, and also for his work on coinage, precious metal trade, and other aspects of pre-colonial commerce between Europe and India. In 2005, he was knighted by the Dutch queen.\n\nHe did his M.A. from the Delhi School of Economics in 1961, ranking first, and continued with his PhD in Economic History. His thesis, \"The Dutch East India Company and the Economy of Bengal, 1650-1717\", is based on archival material from the Nationaal Archief at the Hague. It was published as a book by the Princeton University Press in 1985.\n\nSubsequently, Prakash joined the Delhi School of Economics faculty from 1965 and 2005. His work is highly regarded in the Netherlands, where he is a Foreign Member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Haarlem (since 2000). In April 2005, he was honoured as a \"Knight in the Order of the Netherlands Lion\" by Queen Beatrix.\n\nHe is also the author of \"European commercial enterprise in pre-colonial India\" (1998), published under the New Cambridge History of India series (part II, v.5).\n"}
{"id": "47382587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382587", "title": "Ooni Agbedegbede", "text": "Ooni Agbedegbede\n\nOoni Agbedegbede was the 23rd Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Lumobi and was succeeded by \nOoni Ojelokunbirin.\n"}
{"id": "492336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492336", "title": "Peter Brown (historian)", "text": "Peter Brown (historian)\n\nPeter Robert Lamont Brown, FBA, (born 26 July 1935) is Rollins Professor of History Emeritus at Princeton University. He is credited with having brought coherence to the field of Late Antiquity, and is sometimes regarded as the inventor of the field. His work has concerned, in particular, the religious culture of the later Roman Empire and early medieval Europe, and the relation between religion and society.\n\nPeter Brown was born in Dublin, Ireland, in 1935, to a Scots-Irish Protestant family. Until 1939, he spent winter and spring each year in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, where his father worked as a railway engineer based at Khartoum. For the rest of the year, he would return with his mother to Bray, in Co. Wicklow, near Dublin. Following the outbreak of war, Brown and his mother remained in Ireland, though his father did not return finally until 1948.\n\nBrown has written and spoken about the influence of the Sudanese connection on several occasions. Speaking to the \"Daily Princetonian\", he has remarked: '\"Living in the Sudan put in me a love of the Middle East, a real interest in it, distant memories of a very sunny world with large, dark Sudanese servants in long white robes\"', combined with memories of 'hippopotami, crocodiles, and camels under starry skies'. After his father had returned to Ireland, 'a handbook of \"Sudanese Courtesy Customs\", containing delicate Arabic phrases of greeting and polite enquiry, was prominent on his bookshelf, as was a deluxe edition of T.E. Lawrence's \"The Seven Pillars of Wisdom\", which I would read, from cover to cover, every time that I returned home on holiday from my school in England.' Such influences, with 'roots deep in my childhood, already ensured, perhaps, that both religion and the \"exotic\" (the non-European and, by implication, the non-classical) were both too large, too ever-present and too rich for their intrusion into the classical world to be dismissed out of hand, as unambiguously negative symptoms of decline. The power of both had begun to puzzle and intrigue me. The collapse of an enlightened empire might, indeed, be a catastrophic event, for all I knew; but it was unlikely to be uninteresting.'\n\nBrown was educated at Aravon School - now closed but, at that time, a distinguished preparatory school in Bray, where he first studied Latin and French. In 1948, Brown entered Shrewsbury School in Shropshire, one of the prominent \"public\" schools in England, on a scholarship. It was at Shrewsbury School that Brown, who initially expected to concentrate on sciences, first studied Ancient Greek and turned in earnest to the study of history: 'I myself had become a keen amateur astronomer, and had re-invented gunpowder to the detriment of my aunt's carpet. I fully intended to enter the Science stream of my new school. My housemaster summoned me to his study. In between puffs of his pipe, he announced with utter certainty: \"Brown, you did too well in [the] Entrance [examination] to do Science. You shall do ... Greek.\" And Greek I did, if only for one year, before taking the Junior Certificate and then lapsing from the high calling of a classical scholar in the English Public School tradition into the study of mere History.'\n\nWhen asked to comment on his intellectual formation, Brown has also indicated that he completed his public schooling a year early, returning to Ireland (as he had done for school holidays) in 1952, the year he turned 17. It was then in Dublin that he read Mikhail Rostovtzeff's \"The Social and Economic History of the Roman Empire\" (1926), which he borrowed from the lending library of the Royal Dublin Society at Ballsbridge. The academic year 1952-3 was a 'hiatus' for Brown, between school and university, during which he learned to type at a secretarial school, and received German lessons from an academic at Trinity College Dublin who had been a refugee from Nazi Germany.\n\nIn 1953, Brown took up a scholarship to read Modern History at New College, Oxford, from 1953 to 1956. Most of his degree was 'devoted to English History in its entirety and to the European High Middle Ages, from 919 to 1127', but in his final academic year, he undertook a Special Subject on The Age of Augustine, and was particularly influenced by the writings of Marrou and Piganiol. That Special Subject had a profound influence on Brown: 'I was thrilled by the glimpse which both authors offered of the sheer resilience of a pre-Christian society and culture at the very moment of the triumph of the Christian church within the Roman empire. Institutions and powerful bodies of ideas, that I had known only in the medieval and post-Reformation periods — and many of which, in their modern form, still hung, like chill clouds, above the heart of any Irish boy, Catholic or Protestant — were shown to have originated first in a very distant, ancient world.'\n\nFollowing his graduation Brown began, but did not complete, a doctoral thesis under the external supervision of Arnaldo Momigliano (at that time professor of ancient history at University College London). The potential he had shown as an undergraduate was recognized by the award of the Harmsworth Senior Scholarship at Merton College, Oxford, and a seven-year Prize Fellowship at All Souls College, Oxford. At a time when it was normally possible to remain in the college after the Prize Fellowship, All Souls College subsequently elected him a research fellow in 1963 and a senior research fellow in 1970. The Modern History Faculty of the University of Oxford appointed him a special lecturer in 1970 and a reader (\"ad hominem\") in 1973. He was elected a fellow of the British Academy in 1971. Brown left Oxford to become professor of modern history and head of the Department of History at Royal Holloway College in the University of London (1975–78). He subsequently left Britain to become professor of classics and history in the University of California at Berkeley (1978–86) and then Philip and Beulah Rollins Professor of History at Princeton University (1986–2011). He was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1979, a fellow of the Medieval Academy of America in 1988, and a resident member of the American Philosophical Society in 1995.\n\nBefore joining the tenured faculty at UC Berkeley and Princeton, Brown held visiting professorships at both institutions: at UC Berkeley in 1975, and at Princeton in 1983-6. He has also held visiting professorships at UCLA and in Italy. Other engagements as a visiting teacher have taken Brown to Toronto in the 1970s and, since 2000, to Hungary and Iceland. At Princeton, Brown was given the President's Award for Distinguished Teaching in 2000. A significant number of his former students in the UK and US have gone on to substantive academic posts.\n\nBrown has delivered several named lecture series. These include the Carl Newell Jackson Lectures at Harvard University (1976); the Haskell Lectures at the University of Chicago (1978); the ACLS Lectures in the History of Religion (1981-2); the Curti Lectures at the University of Wisconsin, Madison (1988); the Tanner Lectures at Cambridge and Yale (1993 and 1996 respectively); the Menahem Stern Lectures in Jerusalem (2000); the Lectures in Human Sciences at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna (2012); and the James W. Richard Lectures at the University of Virginia (2012).\n\nHe has also delivered a multitude of named single lectures. These include national academic occasions in the UK and US: the Raleigh Lecture in History in the British Academy (1992); and the Charles Homer Haskins Lecture (\"A Life of Learning\") for the American Council of Learned Societies (2003).\n\nOther named lectures include the Stenton Lecture at Reading University (1976); the Sigmund H Danziger Jr Memorial Lecture at the University of Chicago (1997); a Presidential Lecture at Stanford University (2002); the Clark Lecture at Trinity College, Cambridge (2004); the Gennadius Library Lecture at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens (2007); the Fr. Alexander Schmemann Lecture at St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, NY (2013); the Annual Distinguished Lecture in Religion at Rutgers University (2013); the Nicolai Rubinstein Lecture at Queen Mary College, University of London (2013); the Patricia H. Labalme Friends of the Library Lecture at the American Academy in Rome (2013); the Burke Lecture on Religion and Society, University of California, San Diego (2014); the Corish Lecture at Maynooth College, Ireland (2014); the Etienne Gilson Lecture at the Pontifical Institute of Medieval Studies, Toronto (2014); and the inaugural Costan Lecture at Georgetown University (2014).\n\nHe has also been a named lecturer, usually in retrospect, in all the universities at which he has held substantive posts: lectures include the Magie Lecture at Princeton (1991); the Pritchett Lecture at UC Berkeley (1993); the Hayes Robinson Lecture at Royal Holloway College, University of London (1997); the Ronald Syme Lecture at Wolfson College, Oxford, and the Dacre Lecture in the History Faculty at Oxford (2006 and 2010 respectively).\n\nIn 2007, Brown gave an inaugural talk at the opening of the Oxford Centre for Late Antiquity. In 2015 he was hosted by the Group for the Study of Late Antiquity at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel, in a public discussion with Paula Fredriksen.\n\nBrown has also frequently been a keynote speaker at conferences and congresses. These include the International Congress of Medieval Studies at Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo (1986); the International Medieval Congress at Leeds (1999); and the Sewanee Medieval Colloquium (2012). He gave the inaugural address at the first Coloquio Internacional \"Nuevas perspectivas sobre la Antigüedad tardía\" in Segovia (2009).\n\nFor several decades, Brown has been General Editor of the book series 'The Transformation of the Classical Heritage', published by the University of California Press. The first volume in the series was published in 1981. The full published list to date now exceeds fifty-five titles.\n\nFollowing his earlier books, Brown has received some prestigious and substantial research grants. These include the MacArthur Fellowship in 1982 and the Distinguished Achievement Award for scholars in the humanities from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in 2001.\n\nBrown, who has a knowledge of at least 26 languages, has been instrumental in the development of the study of late antiquity as a field. Within this broad field, he has also been central in the study of Augustine, monasticism (both the eremetical \"holy man\" and coenobitic alternatives), the cult of the saints and the practice of sexual renunciation. More recently, he has made fundamental contributions to the study of power relations in late Roman society and to the study of financial giving. He has produced a steady stream of articles (several being classics in the field) since 1961, and a steady series of influential books since 1967.\n\nJanet Nelson, the distinguished British historian of the early Middle Ages, has said: \"He took the study of medieval history into fields of cultural history and social history, social psychological history. He was interested in religion but not in an old-fashioned ecclesiastical history, institutional sort of way, but what made people think in this way: how did they conceptualise God? How did they think about religious symbols and rituals in the ways that they did? Why did these things change? That was his agenda. He wrote mostly about late antiquity, the very early period, but he sometimes ventured into the Middle Ages and whenever he did he transformed the scene. The great area he’s famous for doing is the cult of the saints.\"\n\nDrawing on her interview with Brown, Ruby Shao has remarked: 'Brown cites the balance of his scholarship between eastern and western Christianity as his proudest accomplishment. Few scholars research both equally, as the task demands mastery of different languages and intuitions. His commitment has challenged him throughout his career to break into new territory, such as by examining the Desert Fathers, Syriac poetry, and languages like Greek and Coptic.'\n\nFollowing his exposure to the works of Marrou and Piganiol as an undergraduate, and shortly after joining All Souls College as a Prize Fellow, Brown travelled in Italy in 1957-8, doing research at the British School in Rome. During that time, he was especially influenced by the work of Santo Mazzarino, which provided a stimulus for Brown's earliest lectures at Oxford, on return from Italy in 1958. Other early influences were Norman Hepburn Baynes, William Frend and A. H. M. Jones.\n\nBrown's earliest research articles concerned the Christianization of the senatorial aristocracy of Rome (1961), and the phenomena of religious dissent and coercion in late Roman North Africa (1961, 1963). From there, he turned to the study of Augustine's own views on the state (1963) and its use of coercion in matters of religion (1964). Italy and Africa in the fourth and early fifth centuries provided the principal context for the life of Augustine, which became the subject of Brown's substantial first book - \"Augustine of Hippo: A Biography\" (1967). This was followed by related articles that explored both the Pelagian milieu in Italy (1968, 1970) and the relation between Christianity and local culture in Roman Africa (1968).\n\nFollowing the completion of \"Augustine\", however, Brown felt \"free, at last\" to take a wider approach to Late Antiquity, and to turn in particular to the Near East and Central Asia. In 1964, A. H. M. Jones' vast magnum opus on \"The Later Roman Empire, 284-602: A Social, Economic and Administrative Survey\" had appeared, on which Brown wrote a long and important review article for the \"Economic History Review\" (1967). In addition, as Augustine had been a Manichaean for many years, Brown already had a natural route into the religious history of the eastern half of the later Roman Empire and the Persian Empire. An article on \"The Diffusion of Manichaeism in the Roman Empire\" (1969) reflected the direction of his interests, and was spectacularly corroborated when, shortly after, the Cologne Mani-Codex came to light.\n\nIn 1969, Geoffrey Barraclough (as General Editor of the Thames & Hudson \"Library of European Civilization\" series) approached Brown with a view to commissioning a book on late antiquity - and Brown has since noted that it might well have been Barraclough who suggested \"The World of Late Antiquity\" as a title. At this point, Brown engaged increasingly with the work of Henri Pirenne - and also with that of the French Annales School, in particular Fernand Braudel. Their work, combined with the eastward shift in his interests, prompted Brown to think increasingly of the Mediterranean as \"truly distinctive\".\n\nBrown's interest in analyzing culture and religion as social phenomena, and as part of a wider context of historical change, had already been fostered by engagement with the work of Baynes, Frend and Jones. But the \"Annales\" influence in Brown's work can be seen in his increasing use of anthropology and sociology as interpretative tools for historical analysis. Brown was influenced by Anglo-American anthropology, himself noting the role of both a largely British tradition of social anthropology and a largely American tradition of cultural anthropology.\n\nBrown's views slightly shifted in the eighties. In articles and new editions Brown said that his earlier work, which had deconstructed many of the religious aspects of his field of study, needed to be reassessed. His later work shows a deeper appreciation for the specifically Christian layers of his subjects of study.\n\nHis most recent research focuses on wealth and poverty in late antiquity, especially in Christian writers.\n\nBrown's biography of Augustine of Hippo was widely acclaimed. Reviewing it in the \"Journal of Theological Studies\", William Frend - with whom Brown had had a courteous but critical difference of opinion on the religious history of Roman Africa - wrote: \"This is a superb book, an intensely personal interpretation of its central figure, but one in which the scholar's full range of skills, those of the historian, the philosopher, and human psychologist have been brought to bear, sustained throughout by a profound knowledge of Augustine's writings and those of his contemporaries, as well as of modern critical works. The entire compass of the life and thought of the later Roman Empire in the West is its canvas.\"\n\nThe idiosyncrasies of the book did not go unnoticed. Another great master of Augustinian studies, the Rev. Henry Chadwick, remarked that Brown's book was a \"biography without the theology\" - a judgment that Brown has accepted as \"fair\". For this reason, among Anglophone students, Brown's book has often been read hand in hand with Gerald Bonner's \"St Augustine of Hippo: Life and Controversies\", which first appeared four years earlier, in 1963, and which Bonner updated in subsequent editions.\n\nEqually, however, it was Brown's distinctive and subtle de-emphasis of theological content, combined with his use of psychoanalytic insight - which was then highly unusual in the study of an ancient figure - that helped to set Augustine convincingly, as an individual, within a historical landscape. This was noticed by Richard Southern, who praised Brown for \"bringing Augustine out of the tomb of theological doctrine, and setting his mind and emotions working before our eyes.\"\n\nBrown published a new edition in 2000, closing with two new chapters - one focusing on new evidence and the other on new interpretations.\n\nIn his second book \"The World of Late Antiquity\" (1971), Brown offered a radically new interpretation of the entire period between the second and eighth centuries AD. The traditional interpretation of this period was centred around the idea of decadence from a 'golden age', classical civilisation, after the famous work of Edward Gibbon \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1779). On the contrary, Brown proposed to look at this period in positive terms, arguing that Late Antiquity was a period of immense cultural innovation.\n\nHis most celebrated early paper concerned the figure of the 'holy man'. According to Brown, the charismatic, Christian ascetics (holy men) were particularly prominent in the late Roman empire and the early Byzantine world as mediators between local communities and the divine. This relationship expressed the importance of patronage in the Roman social system, which was taken over by the Christian ascetics. But more importantly, Brown argues, the rise of the holy man was the result of a deeper religious change that affected not only Christianity but also other religions of the late antique period – namely the need for a more personal access to the divine.\n\nPublished in 1988, Peter Brown's \"The Body and Society\" was a groundbreaking study of the marriage and sexual practices of early Christians in the ancient Mediterranean and Near East. Brown focuses on the practice of permanent sexual renunciation-continence, celibacy, and lifelong virginity in Christian circles from the first to the fifth centuries A.D. and traces early Christians' preoccupations with sexuality and the body in the work of the period's great writers.\n\n\"The Body and Society\" questions how theological views on sexuality and the human body both mirrored and shaped relationships between men and women, Roman aristocracy and slaves, and the married and the celibate. Brown discusses Tertullian, Valentinus, Clement of Alexandria, Origen, Constantine, the Desert Fathers, Jerome, Ambrose, and Augustine, among others, and considers asceticism and society in the Eastern Empire, martyrdom and prophecy, gnostic spiritual guidance, promiscuity among the men and women of the church, monks and marriage in Egypt, the ascetic life of women in fourth-century Jerusalem, and the body and society in the early Middle Ages. In his new introduction, Brown reflects on his work's reception in the scholarly community.\n\nBrown's longest book to date, \"Through the Eye of a Needle\" concerns attitudes to philanthropic giving in the Latin West in Late Antiquity. Divided into five parts, the core of the book - the long Parts II-III - focuses on two generations between about AD370 and 430, when a rich diversity of views gave way to an increasing polarization of thought brought on by the debate between Augustine and the Pelagians. Parts I and IV-V place this highly focused study in the much wider frame of the social structures of the fourth, fifth and sixth centuries.\n\nBrown has received formal recognition for his academic achievements in at least twelve countries on three continents.\n\nHe has received some twenty honorary degrees. From outside the USA, he has received honorary doctorates from the University of Fribourg, Switzerland (1974), Trinity College Dublin (1990), the University of Pisa (2001), Cambridge (2004), the Central European University in Budapest (2005), Oxford (2006), King's College London (2008), The Hebrew University of Jerusalem (2010), the Aristotle University in Thessaloniki (2010), and the University of St Andrews (2014). His US honorary doctorates include the University of Chicago (1978), Wesleyan University (1993), Tulane (1994), Columbia University (2001), Harvard University (2002), Southern Methodist University (2004), Yale University (2006), Notre Dame University (2008), Amherst College (2009), and St Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, NY (2013).\n\nHe is an honorary fellow of Royal Holloway College in the University of London (1997), and of New College at Oxford University (1998).\n\nBrown has received several major prizes, including the Heineken Prize for History from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (1994), the Ausonius Prize for Ancient History from the University of Trier (1999) and the Premio Anaxilao from the Municipality of Reggio di Calabria (1999). In 2008 he was the co-winner, with Indian historian Romila Thapar, of the semi-regular Kluge Prize for Lifetime Achievement in the Study of Humanity, from the US Library of Congress. In 2011, Brown was awarded the prestigious International Balzan Prize for the Humanities, for his works on Graeco-Roman antiquity. He shared the Dan David Prize for the Past in 2015.\n\nIn addition to the professional memberships acquired during his career in the UK and US, Brown has received honorific recognition from a number of other learned bodies.\n\nHe is a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences (1991); a corresponding member of the Royal Academy of Letters in Barcelona (1997); an honorary fellow of the Italian Association for the Study of Sanctity, Cults and Hagiography; an honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy (2010); a foreign member of the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei in Italy (2015); and a fellow of the Ecclesiastical History Society in the UK (2016).\n\nHe is also honorary president (from 2012) of the Centro Internacional de Estudios sobre la Antigüedad Tardía 'Teodosio el Grande', in the Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia, at Segovia.\n\nBrown is a Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters in France (1996).\n\nBrown has won several distinguished book prizes. \"Augustine of Hippo: A Biography\" (1967) won the Arts Council of Great Britain Prize. \"The Body and Society: Men, Women, and Sexual Renunciation in Early Christianity\" (1988) won the Vursell Award of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the Ralph Waldo Emerson Award of Phi Beta Kappa. \"Through the Eye of a Needle: Wealth, the Fall of Rome, and the Making of Christianity in the West, 350–550AD\" (2012) won the Jacques Barzun Prize in Cultural History from the American Philosophical Society, and the Philip Schaff Prize from the American Society of Church History. It also secured the R.R. Hawkins Award (the top prize in a tiered structure) at the American publishing industry's annual PROSE Awards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "617834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617834", "title": "Quintus Curtius Rufus", "text": "Quintus Curtius Rufus\n\nQuintus Curtius Rufus () was a Roman historian, probably of the 1st century, author of his only known and only surviving work, \"Historiae Alexandri Magni\", \"Histories of Alexander the Great\", or more fully \"Historiarum Alexandri Magni Macedonis Libri Qui Supersunt\", \"All the Books That Survive of the Histories of Alexander the Great of Macedon.\" Much of it is missing. Apart from his name on the manuscripts, nothing else certain is known of him. This fact alone has led philologists to believe that he had another historical identity, to which, due to the accidents of time, the link has been broken. A few theories exist. They are treated with varying degrees of credibility by various authors. Meanwhile, the identity of Quintus Curtius Rufus, historian, is maintained separately.\n\nCurtius' work is uniquely isolated. No other ancient work refers to it, or as far as is known, to him. Peter Pratt pointing out that the Senate and emperors frequently proscribed or censored works, suggests that Curtius had not published the manuscript before his death, but left it in care of the emperor. The emperors intended to publish it posthumously but did not find a political opportunity. They had adopted the identity of Alexander for themselves. The provinces fashioned from the Macedonian Empire were difficult to govern, always on the point of rebellion. The work of Curtius, Pratt conjectures, was not politically appropriate because it would have encouraged independence.\n\nThe earliest opportune moment was the year 167, when the campaign of the emperor Marcus Aurelius against the Parthian Empire had failed, and the returning troops were in bad morale and infected with the Antonine Plague. The emperor attempted to build national pride among the former Macedonian states. Avidius Cassius, commandant of Legio III Gallica, returning veterans, was promoted to Consul. He claimed descent from the Seleucids of Macedonia. New coins and medals were issued in Macedonia on Alexandrian themes. Pratt conjectures that the manuscript in storage, by this time damaged and partly destroyed, was published finally, accounting for the previous lack of references to it. It is also possible Books I and II along with other loci were censored out. As the emperors probably had surmised, it was immediately popular.\n\nThe dating available relies entirely on internal evidence, which is not certain, but offers some degree of preponderance. In Book X Curtius digresses to give an encomium on blessings of peace under empire, citing the Roman Empire with the implication of contemporaneity. In essence he reasserts the policy of Augustus, which casts the empire as the restoration of monarchy for the suppression of the civil wars fomented by the contention of powerful noblemen vying for control of the Republic. Curtius' glowing endorsement of the policy dates him to the Roman Empire.\n\nHe also mentions the Parthian Empire. It was formed by the eastern satrapies recusing themselves from Macedonian overlordship and restoring a purely Iranian empire. It defended itself successfully against Rome, even though Rome absorbed what was left of the Macedonian kingdoms. The dates of the Parthian Empire are 247 BC through 224 AD. Although Curtius may have been writing about an empire vanished in his own day, the most straightforward approach assumes that he wrote in a window, 63 BC (start of the Roman Empire) through 224 AD.\n\nFor further localization, the same imperial purple passage contrasts the civil wars of the Macedonians (Diadochi wars) due to failure to obtain a stable emperor, with an incident of the Roman Empire in which the risk of civil war was avoided by the appointment of a new emperor in a single night. Not very many incidents fit the description. Baynham summarizes the argument of Julius Nützell that the crisis might be the night of January 24/25, 41 AD, following the assassination of Caligula on that day. The Senate met on an emergency basis to debate whether the Roman Republic should be restored. The Praetorian Guard forced its way in to insist on the appointment of Caligula's uncle, Claudius. His reign concentrated on the restoration of the rule of law. A lawyer, he issued up to 20 imperial edicts per day, re-establishing the Pax Romana. If this argument is correct, Curtius' work must be dated to after 41 AD.\n\nThe upper limit is provided by a passage that mentions the \"continued prosperity of Tyre under Roman dominion.\" The peace of the empire came to an end in 43 AD when Claudius invaded Britain. None of these dates are certain, but the union of all the ranges presents a credible view of Curtius' date. Baynham says: \"many modern scholars now accept a date in the middle to late part of the first century A.D. as a likely floruit for Curtius.\"\n\nBy his name, Quintus Curtius Rufus was a member of the \"Curtii Rufi\" branch of the Curtii family, one of the original nobility of Rome. Due to the frequently used institution of adoption, people of the name \"Curtius\" (or female \"Curtia\") might not be consanguineous. Moreover, the same name tended to be repeated, typically from grandfather to grandson. After centuries of \"Curtii\", a \"Curtius\" might turn up in history at any location or in any period.\n\nThe candidates for the historical identity of the author are but few. Given the time frame of the mid-1st century, however, there is a credible candidate. He is a certain Curtius Rufus (The praenomen has been omitted. Presumably it is Quintus.) In the List of Roman consuls he served as Consul Suffectus for October through December, 43 AD under the emperor Claudius. He had been a protégé of Tiberius.\n\nHe must have written the \"Histories\" in the year or two before the consulship. Tacitus says that he was on the staff of the Quaestor of Africa during that time, which would have given him the opportunity to use the Library of Alexandria. Tiberius had died in 37; Caligula was emperor then. Curtius’ relations with Caligula are not mentioned. But Caligula was not in his vicinity.\n\nOn Curtius’ return, a book such as the \"Historiae\" unless politically incorrect would have impressed the scholarly Claudius. Tiberius already had been an admirer before the book: he said that Curtius Rufus was his own ancestor; i.e., a self-made man. Tacitus hints that Curtius was of low birth, possibly the son of a gladiator. The story is only compatible with the name if one assumes adoption, which Tiberius could easily have arranged,\n\nIf Curtius took office at the minimum age of 25, and Tiberius made his comment in the year of his own death, Curtius would have been 19 or younger when described as a self-made man. In an age when Alexander had become regent of Macedon at 16, a rise to fame at 19, and consulship at 25, would not have been incredible. Tiberius would have been a senior emperor when Curtius came to his attention. What his qualifications were for the patronage remain obscure. If, on the other hand, Quintus Curtius Rufus is to be identified with Curtius Rufus, Consul Suffect of 43, then the most likely circumstantial evidence places his birth in the early years of the 1st century, in the reign of Augustus.\n\n\"Historiae\" survives in 123 codices, or bound manuscripts, all deriving from an original in the 9th century. As it was a partial text, already missing large pieces, they are partial as well. They vary in condition. Some are more partial than others, with lacunae that developed since the 9th century. The original contained ten \"libri\", \"books,\" equivalent to our chapters. Book I and II are missing, along with any Introduction that might have been expected according to ancient custom. There are gaps in V, VI, and X. Many \"loci\", or \"places,\" throughout are obscure, subject to interpretation or emendation in the name of restoration.\n\nThe work enjoyed popularity in the High Middle Ages. It is the main source for a genre of tales termed the Alexander Romance (some say romances); for example, Walter of Chatillon's epic poem \"Alexandreis\", which was written in the style of Virgil's Aeneid. These romances spilled over into the Renaissance, especially of Italy, where Curtius was idolized. Painters, such as Paolo Veronese and Charles Le Brun, painted scenes from Curtius.\n\nThe \"Editio Princeps\", or first printed edition, was published in 1470 or 1471 at Venice by Vindelinus Spirensis. A slow but steady stream of editions appeared subsequently until more of a need for standardization was perceived. In 1867 Edmund Hedicke instigated a convention that persists yet. He based his edition of that year on the five best manuscripts.\n\nIn what remains of his work, Curtius mainly does not identify sources. They were, perhaps, stated in the missing books. Speculations of what they were based on thorough analysis of the content and style vary widely. Yardley and Heckel say: \"The internal evidence for Curtius' sources is disappointing.\" He does, however, mention Cleitarchus, a historian in camp, twice, Ptolemy once, and Timagenes once. These men were participants in the Alexander story and therefore are counted as eyewitnesses, or primary sources. All accounts based on them are by analogy also termed \"primary.\" These works are also called \"the Vulgate.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10963053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10963053", "title": "San C. Po", "text": "San C. Po\n\nSir San Crombie Po, CBE (1870–1946) was a Karen nationalist who devoted himself to improving the situation of the Karen people of Burma in the early 20th century.\n\nHe was born in 1870 near the village of Bassein. His family was Sgaw Karen and Christian. He attended a school headed by an American missionary, Charles Nichols, who was impressed with his motivation and decided Po should continue his education in the United States. At the age of fourteen, he was sent to live with relatives of Dr. Nichols. After high school, he attended Albany Medical College and received his MD degree in 1893. He applied for naturalization as a U.S. citizen but was denied on the grounds of his race.\n\nHe returned to Burma and served as the district medical officer in Bassein, followed by Kyaukse and Myaungmya. He increasingly became involved in Karen nationalist affairs and in 1915 was appointed to the Legislative Council of Burma, an advisory council to the British colonial governor.\n\nHe was awarded a CBE and was further knighted in 1933.\n\nHe is also known for his book \"Burma and the Karens\". Published in 1928, \"Burma and the Karens\" now functions as a survey on the situation facing the Karen people in the early 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1096499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096499", "title": "Schwabach", "text": "Schwabach\n\nSchwabach () is a German town of about 40,000 inhabitants near Nuremberg in the centre of the region of Franconia in the north of Bavaria. The city is an autonomous administrative district (\"kreisfreie Stadt\"). Schwabach is also the name of the river which runs through the city prior joining the Rednitz.\n\nSchwabach is famous for its crafts made of gold, particularly gold foil. In 2004, Schwabach celebrated this tradition with an anniversary festival, marking \"500 years gold foil in Schwabach\".\n\nAround 1500, a local typesetter developed the \"Schwabacher\" font. This font was used for printing the first Bible in German, which had been worked out by Martin Luther.\n\nSchwabach is also the birthplace of composer Adolf von Henselt, the botanist Johann Gottfried Zinn, the biologist Ralf Baumeister and one of the developers of MP3, Bernhard Grill. It was often visited by Albrecht Dürer.\n\nThe name derives from the old Franconian name \"Suapaha\" (later \"Suabaha\", then \"Villa Suabach\") which translates as \"Schwaben-Bach\" in modern German, which means \"Swabian stream\", the first part of the name was given by the Franconians who came to the area about a millennium after the Hallstatt culture to the people living on the banks of that stream, which were perceived as \"Swabians\" by them, while the second part of the name is a reference to the stream which flows through town.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31073270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31073270", "title": "Skopje 2014", "text": "Skopje 2014\n\nSkopje 2014 () is a project financed by the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, with the main ideology being based on that of the then-ruling party VMRO-DPMNE, with the purpose of giving the capital Skopje a more classical appeal. The project, officially announced in 2010, consists mainly of the construction of colleges, museums and government buildings, as well as the erection of monuments depicting historical figures from the region of Macedonia. Around 20 buildings and over 40 monuments are planned to be constructed as part of the project. \n\nIn fact this political project is nation-building one and tries to impose a new revisionist narrative of the Macedonian history, promoting Macedonian identity, with unbroken continuity from the antiquity over the middle ages to the modern times. The Skopje 2014 project has been criticized by various groups since the time it was first announced for constructing nationalistic historicist kitsch. Skopje 2014 has also generated controversy for its cost, for which estimates range from 80 to 500 million euros.\n\nThe Skopje 2014 project encompasses the construction, from 2010 to 2014, of 136 structures built at a cost of more than US$700 million.\n\nIn February 2018, the authorities and institutions of the country announced the halt of the project and then set up a Commission for envisaging the removal of its controversial monuments and statues.\n\nThe 1963 Skopje earthquake destroyed approximately 80% of the city, including most of the neoclassical buildings in the central part of Skopje. The rebuilding that followed saw the construction of mostly plain modernist architecture. This is one of the reasons given by the VMRO-DPMNE government for the necessity of the project, to give Skopje a more monumental and visually pleasing image. Another reason is to restore the missing sense of national pride and create a more metropolitan atmosphere. In a speech at the opening of Porta Macedonia in January 2012, then Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski stated that Skopje 2014 was his idea.\n\nThe Skopje 2014 project has been criticized by various groups since the time it was first announced. The cost of the project is estimated at anywhere from 80 to more than 500 million euros and is seen by many as a waste of resources in a country with high unemployment and poverty. The project is also believed by critics to be a distraction from these problems.\n\nThe Social Democratic Union of Macedonia, the main opposition party, opposes the project and has alleged that the monuments could have cost six to ten times less than what the government paid.\n\nThe project is seen as a part of the government's \"antiquisation\" policy, in which the country seeks to claim ancient Macedonian figures like Alexander the Great and Philip II of Macedon for itself. The timing of the project, following the country's non-invitation to NATO due to its continued naming dispute with Greece, has led to speculation that it is retaliation or an attempt to put pressure on Greece. Some residents see the scheme as the embodiment of nationalism by a conservative government focused as much on giving the metropolis a facelift as changing the nation's history and have described it as a mini-Las Vegas while others appreciate its classical nod to the past.\n\nSam Vaknin, a former adviser to Nikola Gruevski, has stated that the project is not anti-Greek or anti-Bulgarian, but anti-Albanian. In an interview, he said \"Antiquisation has a double goal, which is to marginalise the Albanians and create an identity that will not allow Albanians to become Macedonians.\" The project, however, later included depictions of ethnic Albanians in the monuments including Nexhat Agolli, Josif Bageri, and Pjetër Bogdani, as well as others on the Art Bridge, and includes the construction of Skanderbeg Square.\n\nArchitects have criticized the aesthetics of the project and believe the money could have been spent on constructing modern buildings. It has also been described as nationalist kitsch which \"brings unknown history\" to the citizens and current prime minister Zoran Zaev has labeled it an \"idiotic project\".\n\nIn late February 2018, the government and institutions of the Republic of Macedonia announced the halt of the Skopje 2014 program and begun removing its controversial monuments and statues. The Macedonian Ministry of Culture also has set up a Commission to envisage the possibility of removing the rest of them, such as of Alexander the Great and Philip II of Macedon. As a first step, the monument of Andon Kyoseto was dismantled, as one of the mostly disputed of the project. In June 2018 the Macedonian Government announced that the monuments would be renamed and marked with inscriptions honouring Greek-Macedonian friendship. \n\nThe Skopje 2014 project calls for two new pedestrian bridges to be built across the Vardar in the centre of the city. One is the Art Bridge, which is being constructed between the Freedom Bridge and the also under-construction Eye Bridge. It is expected to cost 2.5 million euros. The bridge will include 29 sculptures, with 14 at each end and one in the centre. It will be 83 metres (272.3 feet) in length and 9.2 m (30.2 ft) in width, while the central part of the bridge will be 12 m (39.4 ft) wide.\n\nThe other bridge being constructed as part of the project is the Eye Bridge. Situated between the Stone Bridge and the under-construction Art Bridge, it began construction in 2011. The pedestrian bridge will include 28 sculptures and will cost around 1.5 million euros.\n\nThe project also includes plans to renovate existing bridges in central Skopje, one of which is the Freedom Bridge, which connects Vojvoda Vasil Adžilarski Street in Centar Municipality to Stiv Naumov Street in Čair Municipality. First constructed in 1936, the renovation began in 2011 and is expected to be completed in May, 2014. The total cost will be roughly 1.15 million euros.\n\nThe renovation of the Goce Delčev Bridge, which connects Ilinden Boulevard in Centar to Goce Delčev Boulevard in Čair across the Vardar, began on April 11, 2011 and finished later in the year. The renovation included new gold-coloured fencing and 26 lampposts. The project cost roughly 500,000 euros, including 60,000 euros for the new lighting. Four statues depicting lions, two at each end, were also placed on the bridge in 2010. The ones on the western side were cast in Florence and cost 1.5 million euros.\n\nThe Revolution Bridge, first built in 1963 across the Vardar connecting Kočo Racin Boulevard in Centar to Krste Misirkov Boulevard in Čair, was also renovated as part of the Skopje 2014 project. It began on December 9, 2010 and was completed in May, 2011. The renovation included basic repairs as well as the installation of 22 lampposts and iron-wrought fencing. The renovation cost 450,000 euros.\n\nNotable in Skopje 2014 for its bold modern architecture as opposed to the usual neoclassical style seen in the project, the under-construction concert hall to house the Macedonian Philharmonic Orchestra is one of the first buildings to begin construction in the project, with the cornerstone having been laid in June 2009. The exterior of the building is nearing completion. The concert hall is planned to have excellent acoustics and will have a capacity of 900 seats.\n\nThe Museum of Archaeology began construction in 2009 and is expected to be formally opened in September, 2014. Although the building will primarily serve as a museum, it will also house the Constitutional Court and the National Archive of the Republic of Macedonia. It is situated on the eastern bank of the Vardar, across the river from Macedonia Square. The exterior of the museum is almost complete, as of June 2012, and is among the more monumental buildings of the project, with its Greek Revival architecture. VMRO-DPMNE, the ruling party, states the budget for the construction as 436,000,000 denars.\n\nThe Museum of the Macedonian Struggle for Statehood and Independence − Museum of VMRO and Museum of the Victims of the Communist Regime exhibits the strive for an independent Macedonian nation from the Ottoman Empire and later Yugoslavia. It is divided into 16 departments and includes over 100 wax figures of historical individuals. The museum lies on the eastern bank of the Vardar River just northwest of the Museum of Archaeology, opposite Macedonia Square. Construction began in June 2008 and it formally opened on September 10, 2011. The total cost of the museum, which covers 2,500 m (26,909.8 ft), was roughly 10 million euros.\n\nThe former National Theatre destroyed in the 1963 Skopje earthquake will be completely reconstructed, as part of the Skopje 2014 project. Construction of the building, however, began in December 2007, three years before the official announcing of Skopje 2014. Construction was originally planned to be completed in 2009, though it ended up being completed a few years after. The theatre stands on its original location on the eastern bank of the Vardar. The cost is estimated to be at least 6 million euros and may be as high as 30 million euros.\n\nThe Skopje 2014 project also includes plans to transform the façades of existing buildings in central Skopje into the neoclassical style. This includes the following buildings:\n\n\nThe following are new buildings being constructed to house various governmental functions.\n\nThe cornerstone for the new building to house the Agency for Electronic Communications was laid on 30 March 2011. It is being constructed on the eastern bank of the Vardar in between two other Skopje 2014 buildings, the Museum of Archaeology and the Financial Police Building.\n\nThe total cost of the building's construction is around 8.5 million euros, which the government claims will be fully funded by the Agency's budget. It is expected to be completed in 15 months or by the late summer of 2012.\n\nA new Criminal Court Building is being constructed as part of the project. The cornerstone for the building was laid on 25 May 2010. The building, 10 stories tall, has been topped out. In it will be 74 judicial offices, 22 high courts, and 2 large courtrooms. The 2-story basement will contain parking. The building, reported to cost 8.3 million euros, was planned to be completed after 18 months of construction.\n\nOn 11 October 2010 the cornerstone for the new building to house the Financial Police of the Republic of Macedonia was laid. The site is located between the new Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the new Agency for Electronic Communications. The building, currently several months from completion, is cylindrical in shape and is capped by a dome-shaped roof. The total cost of construction will be roughly 13 million euros.\n\nThe government, in March 2011, invested 8.9 million euros into transforming an abandoned uncompleted building in central Skopje into a new home for the Ministry of Finance. Like the other governmental buildings in Skopje 2014, it will have a neoclassical appearance. Though it was scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2012, the building remains far from completion.\n\nConstruction of the new Ministry of Foreign Affairs building began in January 2010. It is located on the eastern bank of the Vardar between the Financial Police Building and Stiv Naumov Street. It will have two basement levels, seven above-ground levels, and a terrace atop the building. The building, which is nearly complete on the exterior, stands at a height of 27 m (88.6 ft) and will have costed 13.5 million euros when completed.\n\nA new city hall for Skopje is being constructed below the Kale Fortress, on the eastern bank of the Vardar. It is being constructed, as most other buildings in the project, in the neoclassical style and will cost roughly 15 million euros. It will be 21 m (68.9 ft) tall, with six above-ground floors.\n\nAlthough a new city hall for Skopje is being constructed, the former one destroyed in the 1963 Skopje earthquake will be fully reconstructed, as part of the Skopje 2014 project. It will be built on its original location at the north side of Macedonia Square, to the west of the Vardar Quay. A Greek investor will be building the Old City Hall, as well as a Marriott Hotel to the immediate left of the building, after purchasing the land in March 2011.\n\nAmong the buildings being constructed below the Kale Fortress on the eastern bank of the Vardar is the Water Management Building. Construction of the building began in December 2011. It is expected to be completed in 3 years at a cost of 10 million euros.\n\nThe monument of Justinian I, born in Tauresium just outside modern Skopje, arrived at Macedonia Square on June 16, 2011. Similar to the monument of Tsar Samuil, also on Macedonia Square, it consists of Justinian I sitting on a throne, which is placed on a pedestal. The monument is made of white marble with the exception of the bronze reliefs on the pedestal, also characteristics it shares with the Tsar Samuil monument. The pedestal is 3.5 m (11.5 ft) tall, while Justinian upon his throne measures a further 5 m (16.4 ft) in height.\n\nThe monument sits just north of the Stone Bridge, at the western bank of the Vardar River. It was made in Florence and cost over 1 million euros.\n\nThe construction of a monument consisting of a statue of Skopje native Mother Teresa and a fountain is planned. The monument will be located near the MEPSO building, which is north of Macedonia Square near the Vardar Quay, though location on the roundabout near the Goce Delčev Bridge is also a possibility. It is planned to stand around 30 m (98.4 ft) in height, even taller than the Warrior on a Horse monument.\n\nIt has been reported that a donation from India will fund the construction of the new Mother Teresa monument, who is already memorialized in the city with the Memorial House of Mother Teresa and a plaque marking the spot of her birth.\n\nThe Pavilion at Macedonia Square is situated on the north side of Macedonia Square. Construction began in early 2011 and was completed later that year at a cost of 350,000 euros. The pavilion consists of a dome supported by several columns, covering a statue of a romantic couple.\n\nOne of the main symbols of the project is Porta Macedonia, a triumphal arch situated on 11 October Street, near Macedonia Square. The arch is meant to commemorate the long struggle for Macedonian independence. It is 21 m (68.9 ft) tall and contains 32 reliefs carved on the outside, depicting events from pre-history to the independence of the Republic of Macedonia. The inside of the arch consists of two levels, in which a souvenir shop and a gallery are located, and a rooftop observation deck. It formally opened to the public on Christmas Eve, January 6, 2012. The construction of Porta Macedonia is estimated at 4.5 million euros.\n\nThe monument to Samuel of Bulgaria is among the new focal points of Macedonia Square. Officially unveiled on 28 June 2011, it is situated in front of the Pelister building, to the right of where Macedonia Street meets Macedonia Square.\n\nThe monument, mostly in white marble, consists of a depiction of Tsar Samuil sitting on a throne, totaling 5 m (16.4 ft) in height, and is placed on a pedestal which itself is a further 3.5 m (11.5 ft) tall. The reliefs on the sides of the pedestal are bronze. Tsar Samuil, in the monument, holds a scepter. Made in Florence, the total cost of the Tsar Samuil monument was roughly 3.5 million euros. \n\nThe fringe theory Samuil being the first Tsar of the Macedonian Slavs is held mainly in the Republic of Macedonia. This view is ahistorical, as it projects modern ethnic distinctions into the past.\n\nOn the opposite side of the Stone Bridge from Macedonia Square is Karpoš's Rebellion Square, which serves as a main entrance to the Old Bazaar. It is undergoing a major reconstruction, as part of Skopje 2014, and its new centerpiece will be the statue and fountain officially named \"Warrior,\" though it is widely believed that the statue is a depiction of Philip II of Macedon, not to be confused with the equestrian statue of Philip II in Skopje's Avtokomanda neighborhood. The statue was placed onto the square on 22 May 2012.\n\nMade in Vicenza, the statue is 15 m (49.2 ft) tall and is placed on a 13 m (42.7 ft) tall pedestal. The entire monument will cost roughly 2 million euros.\n\nPerhaps the main symbol of the Skopje 2014 project is the Warrior on a Horse () statue and fountain in the centre of Macedonia Square. It is typically thought to depict Alexander the Great, though it is not officially named for him. \n\nThe statue was sculpted by Valentina Stevanovska and cast in Florence. \"Alexander\" was officially completed on September 8, 2011 to commemorate 20 years of the independence of the Republic of Macedonia. It is 14.5 m (47.6 ft) tall and it sits on a cylindrical column, which itself is 10 m (32.8 ft) in height. The column consists of three large ivory sections, each separated by a thinner bronze ring. Each section contains reliefs. The column stands in a fountain. At the base of the column are 8 bronze soldiers, each 3 m (9.8 ft) tall. There are also 8 bronze lions, each 2.5 m (8.3 ft) tall, around the edges of the fountain pool, four of which act as part of the fountain, releasing water from their mouths. The fountain also plays music.\n\nThe total cost of the Warrior on a Horse monument is roughly 7.5 million euros.\n\nAside from the major monuments in the Skopje 2014 above, many other ones have been erected, or are planned to be erected in the city. These include the following:\n\nThe first of four building-boats as restaurants and cafes just in the Vardar River opened in July 2014. The boats are erected into the riverbed and, thus, will remain in their planned spots permanently. The boats, all to be situated in central Skopje, were intended to be in the Baroque style.\n\nThe erection of a Ferris wheel is foreseen on the Vardar River. It will require the construction of a new pedestrian bridge, to run from the Museum of the Macedonian Struggle to the MEPSO Building, upon which it will stand. No final plan for the project has been approved.\n\nThe addition of fountains on the Vardar River was planned early on in the project. They were completed in 2010. The fountains have been criticized for reportedly releasing mud, as well as for acting as a filter for trash flowing down the river.\n\nDirector of Cultural Heritage and archaeologist Pasko Kuzman has announced a plan to restore and reconstruct the Kale Fortress. The plan also includes the construction of a museum to house Byzantine archaeological finds from the fortress, as well as reconstructions of a prehistoric house and an Ottoman guard tower to be built on the place of their ruins. Souvenir shops and cafes are also foreseen additions. The most controversial part of the restoration of the fortress is the construction of a church, which has been protested by ethnic Albanians.\n\nKarpoš's Rebellion Square is situated opposite the Vardar River of Macedonia Square and is undergoing a significant reconstruction. Plans include the erection of a statue and fountain depicting Phillip II of Macedon, though officially named \"Warrior,\" at the far northeast side of the square. Another monument consisting of a fountain and statues representing the Mothers of Macedonia is being constructed in front of the Warrior monument. In front of this will be two monuments, also consisting of a fountain and statues, depicting horses. The two will be situated on either side of the entrance to the square from the Stone Bridge.\n\nA new office building was constructed on the south side of Macedonia Square, on the Vardar Quay. It stands on the same place as the former headquarters of the National Bank, which was destroyed in the 1963 Skopje earthquake. The new office building is similar in shape to the former bank building, though it is not in the neoclassical style, which also makes it somewhat unusual in the Skopje 2014 project.\n\nAn existing statue of Skanderbeg, an important historical figure to ethnic Albanians, will be the main fixture of an under construction square that will bear his name in Skopje's Čair Municipality. The square's total cost is estimated at around 10 million euros and is expected to be completed in 2014. The square will cover 28,000 m (301,389 ft) and will extend from Macedonian Philharmonic and Macedonian Opera to the Old Bazaar. This will require building a portion of the square on top of Goce Delčev Boulevard. Aside from plenty of open space, the square will contain an amphitheatre, a fountain, and underground parking.\n\nOther components of Skopje 2014 include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21723842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21723842", "title": "T. I. Itkonen", "text": "T. I. Itkonen\n\nToivo Immanuel Itkonen (January 20, 1891 – May 12, 1968) was a Finnish historian and linguist, specializing in the Sami languages and the history of the Sami people.\n\nItkonen was born in Pulkkila. Hi father, Lauri Arvid Itkonen (1865–1925), was the curate of the Lutheran church of Pulkkila. Lauri Itkonen and his six children moved to Inari during the Spring of 1899, when Lauri received the post of rector of the Inari church. It was here that Toivo first began his education with a home tutor and then in 1901, moved to Oulu to begin secondary school. He graduated from Oulu secondary school in 1910. In 1913 he graduated from the University of Helsinki with a Bachelor's degree in philosophy. In 1916 he received his Master's degree and in 1923, his Doctorate.\n\nDuring 1911–1949, Itkonen made 9 research trips to Lapland. He also made research trips to central Europe (1929) and Scandinavia (1931 and 1934). His last research trip was to Italy, in 1955. Based on his research in Lapland, Itkonen published the two part \"The Lapps in Finland up to 1945 Vol. 1 & 2\" in 1948.\n\nToivo Itkonen was married to Amanda Seppänen, with whom he had three children, Terho, Marja and Kerttu. He died in Helsinki, aged 77.\n\n"}
{"id": "47286564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47286564", "title": "Thaw Kaung", "text": "Thaw Kaung\n\nSithu Thaw Kaung () is a Burmese university librarian, historian and leading authority in Asian library studies. He specializes in the preservation and archival of traditional documents, including palm leaf manuscripts.\n\nThaw Kaung was born on 17 December 1937 in Rangoon, as the eldest child of second generation Sino-Burmese parents, Sithu U Kaung (surnamed Saw or Suu), and Daw Thein (surnamed Teoh or Teo). His parents were of Hokkien descent, with ancestors from Quanzhou, Fujian. Thaw Kaung's father was a Director of Education from 1951 to 1957. In 1947, Thaw Kaung followed his father to England to oversee the Burmese scholars studying there. In 1950, he returned to Rangoon, but could not attend school because he suffered from poliarthriticsmyelitis.\n\nThaw Kaung attended Methodist English High School (now Basic Education High School No. 1 Dagon) from 1952 to 1954, passing the Matriculation examinations in the First Division with distinctions in English and Geography. He majored in English Literature at Rangoon University, graduating with First Class Honours in 1959. He won the U Po Hnit Gold Medal, which was awarded by Rangoon University to the highest-standing student in the B.A. examination for Honours English. He was selected in 1960 as a Burma State Scholar to obtain a Postgraduate Diploma in Librarianship, specializing in Oriental Bibliography, from the University of London's University College London in 1962.\n\nHe was appointed as Deputy University Librarian in 1959 and promoted as the Chief Librarian of the Universities Central Library in 1969. In 1971, he established the Department of Library Studies at the University, and was a central figure in the establishment of the Myanmar Library Association and the National Commission for the Preservation of Traditional Manuscripts. Between 1971 and 1976, he served as Secretary of the Myanmar Language Commission and the first Chairman of the Committee which compiled the Burmese-English Dictionary. Thaw Kaung was elected an Honorary Fellow of the Library Association UK in 1984, becoming the first Southeast Asian librarian to the awarded this prestigious honour. In 1999, he was awarded the Harold White Fellowship at the National Library of Australia.\n\nThaw Kaung was conferred an Honorary Doctor of Letters by the University of Western Sydney in 1999. In 2005, he won the Fukuoka Asian Culture Prize in the Academic Prize category for his professional contributions. In 2008, he was awarded the Pakokku U Ohn Pe lifetime achievement award for his contributions to Burmese literature. In 2010, he was awarded the Myanmar National Literature Award Lifetime Achievement in Literature the Burmese government.\n\nVarious awards conferred in chronological order is as follows:\n\n(1) B.A. (Honours) First class in English Language and Literature (University of \n(7) Awarded by Fukuoka Asian Culture Prizes as Academic Prize Laureate in 2005. \n(8) Awarded “Sithu Award” by Myanmar Government\n\nThaw Kaung married Khin Than in 1964. They have 3 sons: Min Thaw Kaung, Thant Thaw Kaung, and Myat Thaw Kaung. He resides in Bahan Township, Yangon.\n\nDetails of U Thaw Kaung's articles and publications are as follows:\n\n (1) Library Manual (the first handbook in Myanmar) Compiler and chapters on cataloguing. Two versions. Two editions.\n\nBibliographies and Indexes\n\n"}
{"id": "82226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82226", "title": "Thule Society", "text": "Thule Society\n\nThe Thule Society (; ), originally the \"Studiengruppe für germanisches Altertum\" (\"Study Group for Germanic Antiquity\"), was a German occultist and \"völkisch\" group founded in Munich right after World War I, named after a mythical northern country in Greek legend. The society is notable chiefly as the organization that sponsored the Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (DAP; German Workers' Party), which was later reorganized by Adolf Hitler into the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP or Nazi Party). According to Hitler biographer Ian Kershaw, the organization's \"membership list ... reads like a Who's Who of early Nazi sympathizers and leading figures in Munich\", including Rudolf Hess, Alfred Rosenberg, Hans Frank, Julius Lehmann, Gottfried Feder, Dietrich Eckart, and Karl Harrer.\n\nHowever, Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke contends that Hans Frank and Rudolf Hess had been Thule members, but other leading Nazis had only been invited to speak at Thule meetings or they were entirely unconnected with it. According to Johannes Hering, \"There is no evidence that Hitler ever attended the Thule Society.\"\n\nThe Thule Society was originally a \"German study group\" headed by Walter Nauhaus, a wounded World War I veteran turned art student from Berlin who had become a keeper of pedigrees for the Germanenorden (or \"Order of Teutons\"), a secret society founded in 1911 and formally named in the following year. In 1917, Nauhaus moved to Munich; his \"Thule Society\" was to be a cover-name for the Munich branch of the Germanenorden, but events developed differently as a result of a schism in the Order. In 1918, Nauhaus was contacted in Munich by Rudolf von Sebottendorf (or von Sebottendorff), an occultist and newly elected head of the Bavarian province of the schismatic offshoot known as the Germanenorden Walvater of the Holy Grail. The two men became associates in a recruitment campaign, and Sebottendorff adopted Nauhaus's Thule Society as a cover-name for his Munich lodge of the Germanenorden Walvater at its formal dedication on 18 August 1918.\n\nA primary focus of the Thule Society was a claim concerning the origins of the Aryan race. In 1917, people who wanted to join the \"Germanic Order\", out of which the Thule Society developed in 1918, had to sign a special \"blood declaration of faith\" concerning their lineage:\n\nThe signer hereby swears to the best of his knowledge and belief that no Jewish or coloured blood flows in either his or in his wife's veins, and that among their ancestors are no members of the coloured races.\n\n\"Thule\" () was a land located by Greco-Roman geographers in the farthest north (often displayed as Iceland). The Latin term \"Ultima Thule\" is also mentioned by Roman poet Virgil in his pastoral poems called the \"Georgics\". Thule originally was probably the name for Scandinavia, although Virgil simply uses it as a proverbial expression for the edge of the known world, and his mention should not be taken as a substantial reference to Scandinavia. The Thule Society identified Ultima Thule as a lost ancient landmass in the extreme north, near Greenland or Iceland, said by Nazi mystics to be the capital of ancient Hyperborea.\n\nThe Thule Society attracted about 250 followers in Munich and about 1,500 elsewhere in Bavaria.\n\nThe followers of the Thule Society were very interested in racial theory and, in particular, in combating Jews and Communists. Sebottendorff planned but failed to kidnap Bavarian socialist prime minister Kurt Eisner in December 1918. During the Bavarian revolution of April 1919, Thulists were accused of trying to infiltrate its government and of attempting a coup. On 26 April, the Communist government in Munich raided the society's premises and took seven of its members into custody, executing them on 30 April. Amongst them were Walter Nauhaus and four well-known aristocrats, including Countess Heila von Westarp who functioned as the group's secretary, and Prince Gustav of Thurn and Taxis who was related to several European royal families. In response, the Thule organised a citizens' uprising as White troops entered the city on 1 May.\n\nIn 1918, the Thule Society bought a local weekly newspaper, the \"Münchener Beobachter\" (Munich Observer), and changed its name to \"Münchener Beobachter und Sportblatt\" (Munich Observer and Sports Paper) in an attempt to improve its circulation. The \"Münchener Beobachter\" later became the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" (\"\"Völkisch\" Observer\"), the main Nazi newspaper. It was edited by Karl Harrer.\n\nAnton Drexler had developed links between the Thule Society and various extreme right workers' organizations in Munich. He established the \"Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" (DAP; German Workers' Party) on 5 January 1919, together with the Thule Society's Karl Harrer. Adolf Hitler joined this party in September the same year. By the end of February 1920, the DAP had been reconstituted as the \"Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei\" (NSDAP; National Socialist German Workers' Party), often referred to as the Nazi Party.\n\nSebottendorff by then had left the Thule Society, and never joined the DAP or the Nazi Party. Dietrich Bronder (\"Bevor Hitler kam\", 1964) alleged that other members of the Thule Society were later prominent in Nazi Germany: the list includes Dietrich Eckart (who coached Hitler on his public speaking skills, along with Erik Jan Hanussen, and had \"Mein Kampf\" dedicated to him), as well as Gottfried Feder, Hans Frank, Hermann Göring, Karl Haushofer, Rudolf Hess, Heinrich Himmler, and Alfred Rosenberg. Historian Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke has described this membership role and similar claims as \"spurious\" and \"fanciful\", noting that Feder, Eckart, and Rosenberg were never more than guests to whom the Thule Society extended hospitality during the Bavarian revolution of 1918, although he has more recently acknowledged that Hess and Frank were members of the society before they came to prominence in the Nazi Party. It has also been claimed that Adolf Hitler himself was a member. Evidence on the contrary shows that he never attended a meeting, as attested to by Johannes Hering's diary of society meetings. It is quite clear that Hitler himself had little interest in, and made little time for, \"esoteric\" matters. (See also Hitler's Nuremberg speech of 6 September 1938 on his disapproval of occultism.)\n\nWilhelm Laforce and Max Sesselmann (staff on the \"Münchener Beobachter\") were Thule members who later joined the NSDAP.\n\nEarly in 1920, Karl Harrer was forced out of the DAP as Hitler moved to sever the party's link with the Thule Society, which subsequently fell into decline and was dissolved about five years later, well before Hitler came to power.\n\nRudolf von Sebottendorff had withdrawn from the Thule Society in 1919, but he returned to Germany in 1933 in the hope of reviving it. In that year, he published a book entitled \"Bevor Hitler kam\" (: \"Before Hitler Came\"), in which he claimed that the Thule Society had paved the way for the Führer: \"Thulers were the ones to whom Hitler first came, and Thulers were the first to unite themselves with Hitler.\" This claim was not favourably received by the Nazi authorities: after 1933, esoteric organisations were suppressed (including \"völkisch\" occultists), many closed down by anti-Masonic legislation in 1935. Sebottendorff's book was prohibited and he himself was arrested and imprisoned for a short period in 1934, afterwards departing into exile in Turkey.\n\nNonetheless, it has been argued that some Thule members and their ideas were incorporated into the Third Reich. Some of the Thule Society's teachings were expressed in the books of Alfred Rosenberg. Many occult ideas found favour with Heinrich Himmler, who had a great interest in mysticism, unlike Hitler, but the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) under Himmler emulated the structure of Ignatius Loyola's Jesuit order rather than the Thule Society, according to Hohne.\n\nThe Thule Society has become the center of many conspiracy theories concerning Nazi Germany, due to its occult background (like the Ahnenerbe section of the SS). Such theories include the creation of vril-powered Nazi UFOs.\n\nIn popular culture, references to the Thule Society have included the 2013 season 8 episode \"Everybody Hates Hitler\" of The CW series \"Supernatural\", in which a group of society members seek out a lost ledger containing information about their experiments with necromancy. In the 2016 season 11 episode \"The Vessel\", a leading member of the Thule Society vies against Dean to find a piece of the Ark of the Covenant during World War II. In the season 12 episode \"The One You've Been Waiting For\", the Thule leadership endeavors to resurrect Adolf Hitler, resulting in the death of both the leadership of the Thule Society and the resurrected Hitler.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "45684607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45684607", "title": "Timeline of 1960s counterculture", "text": "Timeline of 1960s counterculture\n\nThe following is a chronological capsule history of 1960s counterculture. Influential events and milestones beginning decades ahead of the 1960s are included for context relevant to the subject period of the early 1960s through the mid 1970s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40487560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40487560", "title": "Valerie Sutton", "text": "Valerie Sutton\n\nValerie Sutton (born February 22, 1951) is an American developer of movement notation and a former dancer.\n\nShe was born in the borough of Manhattan, in New York City, the daughter of a physicist father and a poet/model mother. She has an older sister Pam, a doctor of medicine.\n\nAt the age of six months, she moved with her family to Corning, New York, the home of the Corning Glass Works, where her father became a physicist. She lived in Corning until the age of eight years, and then moved to Corona del Mar, a part of Newport Beach, California. She spent the rest of her childhood in Corona del Mar, and as an adult moved to the San Diego, California area, where she has since lived. Her current home is in the San Diego suburb of La Jolla.\n\nIn California, she credits the influence of Disney animation, as well as the theater and dance environment of Hollywood for directing her interest toward movement.\n\nShe developed the system known as Sutton Movement Writing (lately also entitled the International Movement Writing Alphabet (the IMWA), subdivided into five sections:\n\n\nThe two forms of Sutton Movement Writing that have been most widely adopted are DanceWriting and SignWriting\n\nDanceWriting was first developed in 1966, when Sutton was only 15, training as a professional ballet dancer. She invented a stick figure notation for her own personal use. Four years later she went to Copenhagen, Denmark to train with the Royal Danish Ballet. Over the next two years she applied her system to recording the historic ballet steps of the Royal Danish Ballet, which were in danger of being forgotten from lack of recording. The first DanceWriting textbook, \"Sutton Movement Shorthand, The Classical Ballet Key, Key One,\" was produced in December 1973. Within a year, it became outdated as Sutton improved her system. In the fall of 1974, by special invitation, she taught her system to the members of the RDB.\n\nIn 1974, articles about Sutton's DanceWriting system came to the attention of Lars van der Leith, a sign language researcher, and others who worked with him at the Audiologopædisk Forskningsgruppe of the University of Copenhagen, and they asked for a demonstration. As a result, van der Leith and his colleagues requested Sutton to develop a version of her movement notation adapted to the recording of sign languages. As a result, SignWriting was developed; it has been used for writing not only Danish Sign Language, but the private sign language of a deaf South Pacific islander (in 1975), and American Sign Language.\n\nSutton has continually worked to improve her notation systems and now leads the \"Center For Sutton Movement Writing, Inc.\" to spread her system.\n\nValerie Sutton was part of the ASL Wikipedia presentation at the North American Wiki Conference in 2016. The presentation \"Writing the American Sign Language Wikipedia on Incubator\" involved 3 Deaf editors, Valerie Sutton, and Stephen E Slevinski Jr, along with 2 interpreters.\nDuring the 2016 conference, Valerie Sutton explained the importance of the American Sign Language Wikipedia. She handed out several copies of the \"ASL Wikipedia Excerpt booklet\".\n\n"}
{"id": "567826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567826", "title": "Vedic Mathematics (book)", "text": "Vedic Mathematics (book)\n\nVedic Mathematics is a book written by the Indian monk Swami Bharati Krishna Tirtha and first published in 1965. It contains a list of mental calculation techniques claimed to be based on the Vedas. The mental calculation system mentioned in the book is also known by the same name or as \"Vedic Maths\". Its characterization as \"Vedic\" mathematics has been criticized by academics, who have also opposed its inclusion in the Indian school curriculum.\n\nAlthough the book was first published in 1965, Tirthaji had been propagating the techniques since much earlier, through lectures and classes. He wrote the book in 1957. It was published in 1965, five years after his death as 367 pages in forty chapters. Reprints were made in 1975 and 1978 with fewer typographical errors. Several reprints have been made since the 1990s.\n\nThe book contains sixteen \"sutras\" and fifteen sub-sutras, each of which lists a mental calculation technique. The sixteen \"sutras\" are as follows:\n\nTirthaji claimed that he found the sutras after years of studying the Vedas, a set of sacred ancient Hindu scriptures. However, the Vedas do not contain any of the \"Vedic mathematics\" sutras. First, Tirthaji’s description of the mathematics as Vedic is most commonly criticised on the basis that, thus far, none of the sūtras can be found in any extant Vedic literature (Williams, 2000). When challenged by Professor K.S. Shukla to point out the sutras in question in the Parishishta of the Atharvaveda, Shukla reported that the Tirthaji said the sixteen sutras were not included in standard editions of the Parishishta and that they occurred in his own Parishishta and not any other.\n\nProfessor Vasudeva Saran Agrawala, the editor of the first edition of Tirthaji's book, notes that there is no evidence that the sutras are \"Vedic\", as such, in their origin. Similarly, S. G. Dani of IIT Bombay points out that the contents of the book have \"practically nothing in common\" with the mathematics of the Vedic period or even with subsequent developments in Indian mathematics. For example, multiple techniques in the book involve the use of decimal fractions, which were not known during the Vedic times: even the works of later mathematicians such as Aryabhata, Brahmagupta and Bhaskara do not contain any decimal fractions. He contends that Tirthaji liberally interpreted three-word Sanskrit phrases to associate them with arithmetic.\n\nTirthaji's claim that the sutras are relevant to advanced mathematical techniques such as successive differentiation or analytical conics have also been dismissed by Dani. He terms \"ludicrous\" Tirthaji's claim that \"there is no part of mathematics, pure or applied, which is beyond their jurisdiction\". He also points out that while Tirthaji's methods were not unique, they may have been invented by him independently, as Tirthaji held an MA in mathematics. Similar systems include the Trachtenberg system or the techniques mentioned in Lester Meyers's 1947 book \"High-speed Mathematics\". Alex Bellos points out that several of the calculation tricks can also be found in certain European treatises on calculation from the early Modern period.\n\nThe book was previously included in the school syllabus of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Some schools and organizations run by Hindu nationalist groups, including those outside India, have also included Tirthaji's techniques in their curriculum. The Hindu nationalists have also made several attempts to have Tirthaji's \"Vedic mathematics\" system included in the Indian school curriculum via the NCERT books.\n\nA number of academics and mathematicians have opposed these attempts on the basis that the techniques mentioned in the book are simply arithmetic tricks, and not mathematics. They also pointed out that the term \"Vedic\" mathematics is incorrect, and there are other texts that can be used to teach a correct account of the Indian mathematics during the Vedic period. They also criticized the move as a saffronization attempt to promote religious majoritarianism.\n\nDani points out that while Tirthaji's system could be used as a teaching aid, there was a need to prevent the use of \"public money and energy on its propagation, beyond the limited extent\". He pointed out that the authentic Vedic studies had been neglected in India even as Tirthaji's system received support from several Government and private agencies.\n\nProponents of Vedic Mathematics however argue that the methods are not merely mathematical tricks and that there is an underlying psychology because the aphorisms describe personal approaches to problem-solving. As pedagogic tools, the methods are useful because they invite students to deal with strategies.\n"}
{"id": "2518668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2518668", "title": "War of the Theatres", "text": "War of the Theatres\n\nThe War of the Theatres is the name commonly applied to a controversy from the later Elizabethan theatre; Thomas Dekker termed it the \"Poetomachia\". \n\nBecause of an actual ban on satire in prose and verse publications in 1599 (the Bishops' Ban of 1599), the satirical urge had no other remaining outlet than the stage. The resulting controversy, which unfolded between 1599 and 1602, involved the playwright Ben Jonson on one side and his rivals John Marston and Thomas Dekker (with Thomas Middleton as an ancillary combatant) on the other. The role Shakespeare played in the conflict, if any, has long been a topic of dispute among scholars.\n\nThe least disputed facts of the matter yield a schema like this:\n\n\nApparently Jonson and Marston later came to terms and even collaborated with George Chapman on the play \"Eastward Hoe\" in 1605. That play offended King James with its anti-Scottish satire, a part apparently written by Marston. While Marston evaded capture, Jonson and Chapman ended up in jail as a result.\n\nShakespeare probably alludes to The War of the Theatres in a scene between Hamlet and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern:\n\nScholars differ over the true nature and extent of the rivalry behind the Poetomachia. Some have seen it as a competition between theatre companies rather than individual writers, though this is a minority view. It has even been suggested that the playwrights involved had no serious rivalry and even admired each other, and that the \"War\" was a self-promotional publicity stunt, a \"planned ... quarrel to advertise each other as literary figures and for profit.\" Most critics see the Poetomachia as a mixture of personal rivalries and serious artistic concerns—\"a vehicle for aggressively expressing differences...in literary theory...[a] basic philosophical debate on the status of literary and dramatic authorship.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5216024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216024", "title": "Women's Affairs advisor", "text": "Women's Affairs advisor\n\nThe Women's Affairs advisor to the Chief of Staff (, abbreviated to יוהל״ן Yohalan) is a female officer in the Israel Defense Forces that is in charge of promoting conditions that allow for the optimal use of the capabilities of women serving in the IDF; promoting equal opportunities for women during their military service; and assimilating women into military leadership positions. The position is currently being held by Brigadier-General Rachel Tevet-Weisel.\n\nThe Woman's Affairs advisor dates back to the Women's Corps that existed from 1949 to 2001. The corps was responsible for women soldiers, including: their absorption, recruit training, and transfers to IDF units. During their service, the WC provided them with various services through WC units attached to units in other corps. It also operated a women's soldiers-teachers unit, which taught new immigrants and developing regions.\n\nSince the 1990s, the corps' authority began to gradually transfer into the regional commands and individual commanders, while the female soldiers-teachers unit was moved to the Education and Youth Corps. In 2001, the Defense Minister, Shaul Mofaz, announced the dismantling of the corps. Its command was replaced with a new Women's Affairs advisor to the Chief of Staff position. The corps' last commander was Brigadier General Suzy Yogev.\n\nOn September 1, 2001, Suzy Yogev initiated the founding of the Women's Affairs advisor position, the dismantling of the Chief Women's Officer Command, and transferring the authority of caring for individual women soldiers’ problems to respective commanders, and placing the authority for the women soldiers training base to GOC Army Headquarters.\n"}
{"id": "412703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412703", "title": "World egg", "text": "World egg\n\nThe world egg, cosmic egg or mundane egg is a mythological motif found in the cosmogonies of many cultures that descend from the proto-Indo-European culture and other cultures and civilizations . Typically, the world egg is a beginning of some sort, and the universe or some primordial being comes into existence by \"hatching\" from the egg, sometimes lain on the primordial waters of the Earth.\n\nThe earliest idea of \"egg-shaped cosmos\" comes from some of the Sanskrit scriptures. The Sanskrit term for it is Brahmanda (ब्रह्माण्ड) which is derived from two words - 'Brahma' (ब्रह्मा) the creator god in Hinduism and 'anda' (अण्ड) meaning 'egg'. Certain Puranas such as the Brahmanda Purana speak of this in detail.\n\nThe Rig Veda (RV 10.121) uses a similar name for the source of the universe: Hiranyagarbha (हिरण्यगर्भ) which literally means \"golden fetus\" or \"golden womb\". The Upanishads elaborate that the Hiranyagarbha floated around in emptiness for a while, and then broke into two halves which formed Dyaus (Heaven) and Prithvi (Earth). The Rig Veda has a similar coded description of the division of the universe in its early stages.\n\nThe Orphic Egg in the ancient Greek Orphic tradition is the cosmic egg from which hatched the primordial hermaphroditic deity Phanes/Protogonus (variously equated also with Zeus, Pan, Metis, Eros, Erikepaios and Bromius) who in turn created the other gods. The egg is often depicted with a serpent wound around it.\n\nMany threads of earlier myths are apparent in the new tradition. Phanes was believed to have been hatched from the World-Egg of Chronos (Time) and Ananke (Necessity) or Nyx (Night). His older wife Nyx called him Protogenus. As she created nighttime, he created daytime. He also created the method of creation by mingling. He was made the ruler of the deities and passed the sceptre to Nyx. This new Orphic tradition states that Nyx later gave the sceptre to her son Uranos before it passed to Cronus and then to Zeus, who retained it.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians abided by a multiplicity of truths when it came to creation myths. For instance, the Hermopolitan, Heliopolitan, and Memphite theologies, were equally validated. Under the Hermopolitan theology, there is the Ogdoad, which represents the conditions before the gods were created (Van Dijk, 1995).\nAn aspect within the Ogdoad is the Cosmic Egg, from which all things are born. Life comes from the Cosmic Egg; the sun god Ra was born from the primordial egg in a stage known as the first occasion (Dunand, 2004).\n\nA philosophical creation story traced to \"the cosmogony of \"Taautus\", whom Philo of Byblos explicitly identified with the Egyptian Thoth—\"the first who thought of the invention of letters, and began the writing of records\"— which begins with Erebus and Wind, between which \"Eros\" 'Desire' came to be. From this was produced \"Môt\" which seems to be the Phoenician/Ge'ez/Hebrew/Arabic/Ancient Egyptian word for 'Death' but which the account says may mean 'mud'. In a mixed confusion, the germs of life appear, and intelligent animals called \"Zophasemin\" (explained probably correctly as 'observers of heaven') formed together as an egg, perhaps. The account is not clear. Then Môt burst forth into light and the heavens were created and the various elements found their stations.\n\nFollowing the etymological line of Jacob Bryant one might also consider with regard to the meaning of \"Môt\", that according to the Ancient Egyptians \"Ma'at\" was the personification of the fundamental order of the universe, without which all of creation would perish. She was also considered the wife of Thoth.\n\nIn the myth of Pangu, developed by Taoist monks hundreds of years after Lao Zi, the universe began as an egg. A primeval hermaphroditic giant named Pangu, born inside the egg, broke it into two halves: the upper half became the sky, while the lower half became the earth. As the god grew taller, the sky and the earth grew thicker and were separated further. Finally Pangu died and his body parts became different parts of the earth.\n\nIn the book \"Futhark\" by Edred Thorsson, the cosmic egg is compared to the rune Hagalaz which is symbolic of the fertile void from whence everything is spawned. It is symbolic of the chasm Ginnungagap or the void in that the hermaphroditic giant Ymir and the cow Auðumbla dwelt as primeval beings. Hagalaz, as well as representing elemental disruption or chaos, is the potential for the birth of good or evil depending on what sorts of being or entity fertilizes the egg. In magic rituals, users of seidr or galdr will take an egg and \"fertilize\" it with their desired outcome, whether it be good or evil, and then crack the egg to release what is built up inside.\n\nIn the \"Kalevala\", the Finnish national epic, there is a myth of the world being created from the fragments of an egg laid by a diving duck on the knee of Ilmatar, goddess of the air:\n\nIn many original folk poems, the duck - or sometimes an eagle - laid its eggs on the knee of Väinämöinen.\n\nIn Cook Islands mythology, deep within Avaiki (the Underworld), a place described as resembling a vast hollow coconut shell, there dwelt in the deepest depths, the primordial mother goddess, Varima-te-takere. Her domain was described as being so narrow, that her knees touched her chin. It was from this place that she created the first man, Avatea, a god of light, a hybrid being half man and half fish. He was sent to the Upperworld to shine light in the land of men, and his eyes were believed to be the sun and the moon.\n\n\"In the beginning, Amma, alone, was in the shape of an egg: the four collar bones were fused, dividing the egg into air, earth, fire, and water, establishing also the four cardinal directions. Within this cosmic egg was the material and the structure of the universe, and the 266 signs that embraced the essence of all things. The first creation of the world by Amma was, however, a failure. The second creation began when Amma planted a seed within herself, a seed that resulted in the shape of man. But in the process of its gestation, there was a flaw, meaning that the universe would now have within it the possibilities for incompleteness. Now the egg became two placentas, each containing a set of twins, male and female. After sixty years, one of the males, Ogo, broke out of the placenta and attempted to create his own universe, in opposition to that being created by Amma. But he was unable to say the words that would bring such a universe into being. He then descended, as Amma transformed into the earth the fragment of placenta that went with Ogo into the void. Ogo interfered with the creative potential of the earth by having incestuous relations with it. His counterpart, Nommo, a participant in the revolt, was then killed by Amma, the parts of his body cast in all directions, bringing a sense of order to the world. When, five days later, Amma brought the pieces of Nommo's body together, restoring him to life, Nommo became ruler of the universe. He created four spirits, the ancestors of the Dogon people; Amma sent Nommo and the spirits to earth in an ark, and so the earth was restored. Along the way, Nommo uttered the words of Amma, and the sacred words that create were made available to humans. In the meantime, Ogo was transformed by Amma into Yuguru, the Pale Fox, who would always be alone, always be incomplete, eternally in revolt, ever wandering the earth seeking his female soul. \" \n\n\nIn 1955 poet and writer Robert Graves published the mythography \"The Greek Myths\", a compendium of Greek mythology normally published in two volumes. Within this work Graves' imaginatively reconstructed \"Pelasgian creation myth\" features a supreme creatrix, Eurynome, \"The Goddess of All Things\", who arose naked from Chaos to part sea from sky so that she could dance upon the waves. Catching the north wind at her back and, rubbing it between her hands, she warms the \"pneuma\" and spontaneously generates the serpent Ophion, who mates with her. In the form of a dove upon the waves, she lays the Cosmic Egg and bids Ophion to incubate it by coiling seven times around until it splits in two and hatches \"all things that exist... sun, moon, planets, stars, the earth with its mountains and rivers, its trees, herbs, and living creatures\".\nThe concept was resurrected by modern science in the 1930s and explored by theoreticians during the following two decades. The idea comes from a perceived need to reconcile Edwin Hubble's observation of an expanding universe (which was also predicted from Einstein's equations of general relativity by Alexander Friedmann) with the notion that the universe must be eternally old. Current cosmological models maintain that 13.8 billion years ago, the entire mass of the universe was compressed into a gravitational singularity, the so-called cosmic egg, from which it expanded to its current state (following the Big Bang).\n\nGeorges Lemaître proposed in 1927 that the cosmos originated from what he called the \"primeval atom\".\n\nIn the late 1940s, George Gamow's assistant cosmological researcher Ralph Alpher, proposed the name ylem for the primordial substance that existed between the big crunch of the previous universe and the big bang of our own universe. \"Ylem\" is closely related to the concept of supersymmetry. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55859147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55859147", "title": "Xiong Huizhen", "text": "Xiong Huizhen\n\nXiong Huizhen (; died 1936) was a Chinese historical geographer and a disciple of the late-Qing dynasty scholar Yang Shoujing. He is known for completing the \"Shui jing zhu shu\", a monumental annotation of the 6th-century geographic classic \"Shui jing zhu\".\n\nXiong Huizhen was born in Zhijiang County, Hubei Province, and studied under the prominent historical geographer and bibliophile Yang Shoujing, who was also a native of Hubei. Yang spent most of his life annotating the 6th-century geographic work \"Shui jing zhu\". Having completed 40 volumes of annotation, he died in 1915 without completing the work. Xiong carried on the project and wrote another 40 volumes. He also made the final editing of the entire work, painstakingly proofreading the annotations word by word.\n\nIt took Xiong 22 years to complete the work, known as the \"Shui jing zhu shu\". He refused offers made by Japanese scholars to purchase the book. However, when he learned that the descendants of Yang Shoujing had secretly sold some manuscripts, he committed suicide by hanging himself in 1936.\n\nThe Second Sino-Japanese War soon broke out in 1937. The Chinese government paid great attention to the protection of the manuscript as well as Yang Shoujing's precious book collection. Scholar Fu Sinian negotiated on behalf of the Academia Sinica and the Ministry of Education to purchase the manuscript from Yang's heir Yang Mianzhi for 3,000 dollars, and brought it to Hong Kong for safekeeping. It was eventually published in Taiwan the early 1950s, and in mainland China in 1957.\n\nThe influential historian Gu Jiegang commented that the \"Shui jing zhu shu\" \"brought to a point of culmination the textual research of \"The Classic of Waterways\" of the previous three centuries.\" He greatly admired Yang Shoujing and Xiong Huizhen for their \"single-minded devotion\" to the task, and Xiong's devotion to his master.\n"}
{"id": "35027166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35027166", "title": "Ze'ev Safrai", "text": "Ze'ev Safrai\n\nZe'ev Safrai (; born 1948, Jerusalem, Israel) is an Israeli Professor in the Department for Israel Studies in Bar Ilan University, as well as an author, lecturer and researcher of Israel in the Second Temple era . His main project is his authorship of the socio-historical commentary to the Mishnah called Mishnat Eretz Yisrael (literally Mishnah of Israel), which he began together with his late father Professor Shmuel Safrai and his late sister Professor Chana Safrai.\n\nSince the Mishnah is a code of law, its textual style is very concise and lacking in socio-historical background. While some scholarly attempts have been made to understand the meaning of the Mishnah and some attempts have been made to sketch the biographies of the authorities the Mishnah mentions (by referring to talmudic and midrashic sources, for example) Mishnat Eretz Yisrael is the only complete commentary to the Mishnah that uses socio-historical evidence of the time to provide context for the Mishnah's laws.\n\nOf the expected 45 volumes, 22 have been completed.\n\nBorn in Jerusalem in 1948, he studied in Yeshivat Netiv Meir, volunteered for the Bnei Akiva religious (Jewish) youth movement, served in the Israel Defense Forces, and then became a founding member of Kibbutz Ma'ale Gilboa. He received his doctorate from the Hebrew University on the subject of \"Historical Geography of the land of Samaria\" under the guidance of Professor Menachem Stern and Professor Zakariah Klai.\n\nHe married Dina from Kibbutz Yavneh in 1974 and settled there. She manages sales of the Mishnat Eretz Yisrael commentary.\n\nAt Bar Ilan University, he has been head of the Department for Israel Studies and Deputy Rector of the University. He was on the secretariats of the Trustees of Torah and Avodah (a religious movement), the Mafdal and on the permits committee of the Israel Archaeology Council. He served as head of the committee for the training of Tour Guides in the Israel Tourism Office. Currently he is a member of Israel Place Naming Committee, a member on the managerial committee of Ashkelon College, the Achvah Academic College, Givat Washington College and Yaakov Herzog Centre.\n\nSafrai describes himself as a 'servant' of the Mishnaic and Talmudic period. He works on all perspectives of the period, especially those areas where a combination of source types and methodological approaches are required, for instance the combination of the Sages' source and archaeological finds, or the Sages' sources and a socio-historical approach.\n\n\nFull list of books and publications on CV.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn addition he has published many articles in various journals in Hebrew, English, German and French.\n\n\n"}
