{"id": "1122307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1122307", "title": "1964 Monaco Grand Prix", "text": "1964 Monaco Grand Prix\n\nThe 1964 Monaco Grand Prix was a Formula One motor race held at Monaco on May 10, 1964. It was race 1 of 10 in both the 1964 World Championship of Drivers and the 1964 International Cup for Formula One Manufacturers. Peter Arundell scored his first podium finish, and Mike Hailwood his first point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52749908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52749908", "title": "1981 in Croatian television", "text": "1981 in Croatian television\n\nThis is a list of Croatian television related events from 1981.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52992906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992906", "title": "1998 in Estonian television", "text": "1998 in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of Estonian television related events from 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55290763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55290763", "title": "2000 in Greece", "text": "2000 in Greece\n\nEvents in the year 2000 in Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "56006878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56006878", "title": "2017 Serbian Water Polo Cup", "text": "2017 Serbian Water Polo Cup\n\nThe 2017 Serbian Cup is the 12th edition of the tournament.\n\nThe rounds of the 2017 competition are scheduled as follows:\n\nRound of 32 match was played on 8 November 2017.\n\nRound of 16 matches were played on 19–22 November 2017.\n\nQuarter-final matches were played on 1–2 December 2017.\n\nThe final four will be held on 16 and 17 December 2017 at the SC „Đorđe Predin Badža\" in Bečej.\n\n"}
{"id": "12990092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12990092", "title": "29th Logistics Battalion (Belgium)", "text": "29th Logistics Battalion (Belgium)\n\nThe 29th Logistics Battalion () is a logistics battalion in the Land Component of the Belgian Armed Forces.\n"}
{"id": "20306840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20306840", "title": "BNS Titumir", "text": "BNS Titumir\n\nBNS \"Titumir\" () is a naval base of the Bangladeshi Navy, founded after the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, and located in Khulna.\n\nThe \"Titumir\" is currently under the command of the Commodore Commanding Khulna (COMKHUL). About 2500 personnel serve at \"Titumir\", which is one of the largest bases in the Bangladesh Navy. It also provides some naval training. Some training schools located here are\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30726576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30726576", "title": "BTV Radio", "text": "BTV Radio\n\nbTV Radio is a Bulgarian radio station, part of bTV Radio Group, owned by the Central European Media Enterprises(owned by WarnerMedia/AT&T). It broadcasts from May 1, 2009 in Sofia, and later launched in Pernik and Gotse Delchev. Its program is also transmitted via satellite across Europe. The station originally launched as a radio program of the television PRO.BG - PRO.FM. From October 2011, it is re-branded to the eponymous radio station of the television channel bTV, emitting the main of the television program. The radio will go on broadcasting only in Sofia.\n"}
{"id": "23424729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23424729", "title": "Babylonian Map of the World", "text": "Babylonian Map of the World\n\nThe Babylonian Map of the World (or \"Imago Mundi\") is a Babylonian clay tablet\ncontaining a labeled depiction of the known world, with a short and partially lost description, dated to roughly the 6th century BC (Neo-Babylonian or early Achaemenid period).\n\nThe map is centered on the Euphrates, flowing from the north (top) to the south (bottom). \nThe city of Babylon is shown on the Euphrates, in the northern half of the map. The mouth of the Euphrates is labelled \"swamp\" and \"outflow\". Susa, the capital of Elam, is shown to the south, Urartu to the northeast, and Habban, the capital of the Kassites is shown (incorrectly) to the northwest. Mesopotamia is surrounded by a circular \"bitter river\" or Ocean, and eight \"regions\", depicted as triangular sections, are shown as lying beyond the Ocean.\nIt has been suggested that the depiction of these \"regions\" as triangles might indicate that they were imagined as mountains.\n\nThe tablet was discovered at Sippar, Baghdad Vilayet, some 60 km north of Babylon on the east bank of the Euphrates River. The text was first translated in 1889. The clay tablet resides at the British Museum (BM 92687).\n\nThe map is circular with two outer defined circles. Cuneiform script labels all locations inside the circular map, as well as a few regions outside. The two outer circles represent water in between and is labelled as \"maratum\" \"bitter river\", the salt sea.\nBabylon north of center of the map; parallel lines at the bottom seem to represent the \"southern marshes\", and a curved line coming from the north, northeast appear to represent the Zagros Mountains.\n\nThere are seven small interior circles at the perimeter areas within the circle, and they appear to represent seven cities.\nEight triangular sections on the external circle (water perimeter) represent named \"regions\" (\"nagu\").\nThe description of five of them has survived.\n\nCarlo Zaccagnini has argued that the design of the Babylonian map of the world may have lived on in the T and O map of the European Middle Ages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40580271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40580271", "title": "Bartlow Hills", "text": "Bartlow Hills\n\nBartlow Hills is a Roman tumuli cemetery in Bartlow (Cambridgeshire, UK). Four of original seven barrows remain, but only the largest three are accessible to the public; the northernmost and smallest is on private property and not easily visible. The remnants of two more are visible as low mounds west of the three largest barrows. The tallest is 15 metres high, and the largest barrow north of the Alps.\n\nExcavations were undertaken in the 19th century (chiefly in 1832–40), discovering remains of large wooden chests, decorated vessels in bronze, glass and pottery and an iron folding chair (most of which were lost in a fire at Easton Lodge in 1847). A small Roman villa, occupied until the late 4th century, was situated north of the mounds and was excavated in 1852. The site saw no further work until a geophysical survey in 2006 and further excavations in 2007. During this work, it was not possible to locate the Roman villa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30864551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864551", "title": "Battle of Gatae", "text": "Battle of Gatae\n\nThe Battle of Gatae was an engagement fought in roughly 103 AD during the Roman Emperor Trajan's war with the kingdom of Dacia.\n\nThere is no serious historical evidence giving an exact place or time to the battle, nor any troop positions, numerical statistics, casualties, or much of anything of that nature. It is not even fully understood if the battle was in of itself a major engagement or merely a small battle or even a large skirmish. Dio Cassius gives a minor mention of the battle, but it is a mere mention.\n\nIt is understood that this battle did, however, somehow break the back of the Dacian army and allow the Roman Legions to make serious tactical headway. However, Decebalus, king of Dacia, managed to secure a peace before the capital of Sarmizegetusa was captured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53464578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53464578", "title": "Bozkır Oyun Havası", "text": "Bozkır Oyun Havası\n\nBozkır Oyun Havası(Turkish: \"Bozkır Oyun Havası\"), is a Turkish folkloric tune . Evfer rhythm.There are similar folkloric tunes known as \"Tamzara\".\n\nTamzara\n"}
{"id": "16084250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084250", "title": "CFRNA", "text": "CFRNA\n\nCFRNA (\"The French-Romanian Company for Air Transport\"; ; ), later CIDNA (\"The International Air Navigation Company\"; ) was a French-Romanian airline, on January 1, 1920.\n\nUsing French-built Potez aircraft, the company provided passenger, mail and cargo transportation, by air, from Paris to Bucharest, via Strasbourg, Prague, Vienna and Budapest. As such, CFRNA was the first operative transcontinental airline in the history of aviation. The company also made the first passenger international night flight, between Belgrade and Bucharest in 1923. In 1925 CIDNA opened the first domestic Romanian route Bucharest - Galaţi, followed, from 24 June 1926, by an extended service to Iaşi and Chişinău.\n\nIn 1930, the Romanian arm adopted the name LARES (\"Liniile Aeriene Române Exploatate de Stat\" - \"State-Run Romanian Air Lines\"). The company ceased to exist when it became one of the constituting companies of Air France on October 7, 1933.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33260689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260689", "title": "Car brez zaklada", "text": "Car brez zaklada\n\nCar brez zaklada is a novel by Slovenian author Slavko Pregl. It was first published in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "24538739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24538739", "title": "Chijoraji", "text": "Chijoraji\n\nChijoraji or Chijoragi is a name given to the infant Jesus carried in the hand of\nthe Virgin of Candelaria (called by the Guanches Chaxiraxi) in Tenerife. Chijoraji is the aboriginal Guanches name given to this representation of Christ.\n\n"}
{"id": "24876073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24876073", "title": "Critical Manufacturing", "text": "Critical Manufacturing\n\nCritical Manufacturing is a spin-off company of Critical Software. It was founded in 2009 and is focused on providing automation and manufacturing software for high-tech industries, such as photovoltaics, electronics and semiconductors. It has offices in Portugal, Germany and China.\n\nThe company flagship products is Critical Manufacturing MES, a next-generation manufacturing operations management system.\n\nCritical Manufacturing MES uses technologies from Microsoft, providing an Internet application user experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "264285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=264285", "title": "Daniel K. Inouye International Airport", "text": "Daniel K. Inouye International Airport\n\nDaniel K. Inouye International Airport , also known as Honolulu International Airport, is the principal aviation gateway of the City and County of Honolulu on Oahu in the State of Hawaii. It is identified as one of the busiest airports in the United States, with traffic now exceeding 21 million passengers a year and rising.\n\nThe airport is named after the U.S. Senator and Medal of Honor recipient Daniel K. Inouye, who represented Hawaii from 1963 until his death in 2012. The airport is located in the Honolulu census-designated place three miles (5 km) northwest of Honolulu's central business district. Main roads leading to the airport are Nimitz Highway and the Queen Liliuokalani Freeway of Interstate H-1.\n\nDaniel K. Inouye International Airport serves as the principal hub of Hawaiian Airlines, the largest Hawaii-based airline. It offers flights between the various airports of the Hawaiian Islands and also serves the continental United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Tahiti, Japan, China, the Philippines, and South Korea. It is host to major United States and international airlines, with direct flights to North American, Asian, and Pacific Rim destinations. In addition to services to most major western cities and many smaller gateways, especially in California, the airport has succeeded in attracting long-haul services to the East Coast including the recently added destinations of Toronto–Pearson and Washington–Dulles, which have joined established services to Atlanta, New York–JFK, and Newark.\n\nIt is also the base for Aloha Air Cargo, which previously offered both passenger and cargo services under the name Aloha Airlines. This airline ceased passenger flights on March 31, 2008, and sold off its cargo services to Seattle-based Saltchuk Resources, Inc. (also owners of inter-island sea-based shipping company Young Brothers and Hawaiian Tug & Barge).\n\nIn 2012, the airport handled 19,291,412 passengers, 278,145 aircraft movements and processed 412,270 metric tons of cargo. It is included in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems for 2017–2021, in which it is categorized as a large-hub primary commercial service facility.\n\nHNL opened in March 1927 as John Rodgers Airport, named after World War I naval officer John Rodgers. It was funded by the territorial legislature and the Chamber of Commerce, and was the first full airport in Hawaii: aircraft had previously been limited to small landing strips, fields or seaplane docks. From 1939 to 1943, the adjacent Keehi Lagoon was dredged for use by seaplanes, and the dredged soil was moved to HNL to provide more space for conventional airplanes.\n\nThe U.S. military grounded all civil aircraft and took over all civil airports after the attack on Pearl Harbor, and Rodgers Field was designated Naval Air Station Honolulu. The Navy built a control tower and terminal building, and some commercial traffic was allowed during daylight hours. Rodgers Field was returned to the Territory of Hawaii in 1946. At the time, at , it was one of the largest airports in the United States, with four paved land runways and three seaplane runways.\n\nJohn Rodgers Airport was renamed Honolulu Airport in 1947; \"International\" was added to the name in 1951. Being near the center of the Pacific Ocean it was a stop for many transpacific flights. By 1950 it was the third-busiest airport in the United States in terms of aircraft operations, and its runway was the longest in the world in 1953. In summer of 1959 Qantas began the first jet service to Honolulu on its flights between Australia and California. Qantas introduced these jet flights with Boeing 707 aircraft operating a routing of Sydney - Fiji - Honolulu - San Francisco. Aeronautical engineer and airline consultant, Frank Der Yuen, advised in the design of the original building and founded its aerospace museum.\n\nThe original terminal building on the southeast side of runways 4 was replaced by the John Rodgers Terminal, which was dedicated on August 22, 1962 and opened on October 14, 1962. From 1970 through 1978, the architect Vladimir Ossipoff designed a terminal modernization project that remodeled this terminal and created several additions, which included the Diamond Head Concourse in 1970, the Ewa Concourse in 1972, and the Central Concourse in 1980.\n\nPan American World Airways (Pan Am) used Honolulu as a transpacific hub for many years, initially as a connecting point between the West Coast and Polynesia (Fiji, New Caledonia and New Zealand) in 1946, followed by service to East Asia through Midway Island and Wake Island from 1947. By 1960, Pan American was serving the airport with Boeing 707 jets. Pan Am flight number 1 operated with a 707 flew a westbound routing of San Francisco - Honolulu - Wake Island - Tokyo - Hong Kong with this flight then continuing on to New York City via stops in Asia and Europe with the airline also operating nonstop 707 service to Los Angeles and Portland, OR with the latter flight continuing on to Seattle as well as direct 707 jet service from Honolulu to Calcutta, Guam, Jakarta, Karachi, Manila, Rangoon, Saigon and Singapore in 1960. United Airlines was flying nonstop Douglas DC-6 \"Mainliner\" service from San Francisco in 1947 and by 1961 was operating Douglas DC-8 jet service nonstop from Los Angeles and San Francisco with direct one stop DC-8 flights from both Chicago and New York City . British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines (BCPA) began serving the airport during the mid 1940s with Douglas DC-4 aircraft flying a routing of Sydney - Auckland - Fiji - Canton Island - Honolulu - San Francisco - Vancouver, B.C. In 1950, Northwest Airlines was operating nonstop flights from Seattle with Boeing 377 Stratocruiser propliners and by 1961 Northwest was flying daily Douglas DC-8 jet service on a round trip routing of New York City - Chicago - Seattle - Portland, OR - Honolulu. Also in 1950, Canadian Pacific Air Lines (which later became CP Air) was operating service between western Canada and Australia with a routing of Vancouver - Honolulu - Canton Island - Fiji - Sydney.\n\nHonolulu-based air carriers Aloha Airlines and Hawaiian Airlines had both introduced jet service on their respective inter-island routes in Hawaii by 1966 with Aloha operating British Aircraft Corporation BAC One-Eleven jets and Hawaiian flying Douglas DC-9-10 jets with both airlines also continuing to operate turboprop aircraft on their island services at this time. According to their respective timetables, Aloha was flying Fairchild F-27 and Vickers Viscount propjets while Hawaiian was operating Convair 640 propjets in addition to their new jet aircraft in 1966. Both local air carriers would eventually operate service to the U.S. mainland as well as to the South Pacific while continuing to operate inter-island flights. In 1986, Hawaiian was operating nonstop Lockheed L-1011 Tristar service from Honolulu to Las Vegas, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle as well as one stop direct service to Portland, OR and also nonstop Douglas DC-8 service to Pago Pago with this flight continuing on to Tonga. By 2003, Aloha was flying nonstop Boeing 737-700 service to Burbank, Oakland, Orange County and Vancouver, B.C. with direct one stop service to Las Vegas, Phoenix, Reno and Sacramento in addition to operating nonstop flights to Kwajalein and Pago Pago with one stop service to Majuro and Rarotonga.\n\nIn the spring of 1969, Braniff International introduced nonstop Boeing 707-320 service to Honolulu from Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby Airport and St. Louis with one stop direct service from Atlanta, Miami and New Orleans. At the same time, United Airlines introduced daily nonstop Douglas DC-8-62 flights from New York City and was continuing to operate nonstop DC-8 service to Honolulu from Los Angeles and San Francisco. Also in 1969, Western Airlines was operating nonstop Boeing 707 and Boeing 720B service not only from several California cities but from Anchorage, Denver, Minneapolis/St. Paul and Phoenix as well and by 1981 was operating direct one stop McDonnell Douglas DC-10-30 service from London Gatwick Airport via a polar route with a stop in Anchorage. By the mid-1970s Pan Am offered nonstop service from Honolulu to Japan, Guam, Australia, New Zealand and Fiji, as well as to cities on the West Coast. Continental Airlines used Honolulu as a stopover point for charter service to Southeast Asia during the Vietnam War era, and to feed its Guam-based Air Micronesia operation. By the early 1970s, Continental was operating scheduled nonstop flights between Honolulu and Los Angeles, Portland, OR and Seattle with its service including Boeing 747-100 nonstops from Los Angeles and direct one stop 747 flights from Chicago while the Air Micronesia service to Guam via stops at Midway Island, Kwajalein, Majuro, Ponape (now Pohnpei) and Truk (now Chuuk State) was operated with a Boeing 727-100. American Airlines also operated flights to Auckland, Sydney, Fiji and Pago Pago via Honolulu during the early 1970s in addition to operating nonstop Boeing 707-320 flights from St. Louis.\n\nOver the years, many foreign air carriers used Honolulu as a transpacific stopover point, including Air New Zealand, BOAC (now British Airways), British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines, Canadian Pacific Air Lines, China Airlines, Garuda Indonesia, Japan Airlines, Korean Air, Philippine Airlines, Qantas, Real Transportes Aereos (a Brazilian airline) and Singapore Airlines as well as French air carriers Union de Transports Aeriens (UTA) and its predecessor Transports Aeriens Intercontinentaux (TAI). BOAC served Honolulu as part of its around the world services during the 1960s and early 1970s, first with Bristol Britannia turboprop airliners and later with Boeing 707 and Vickers VC10 jets. Pan Am and Trans World Airlines (TWA) also served Honolulu as a stop on their respective around the world services during the early 1970s. In 1979, Braniff International was operating all of its flights from the airport with Boeing 747 aircraft with nonstops to Dallas/Fort Worth, Guam and Los Angeles as well as one stop direct service to Hong Kong and also one stop direct to Bogota in South America. Several small airlines based in the South Pacific also served Honolulu. In 1983, Air Nauru was operating Boeing 737-200 nonstop flights from Majuro with direct service from Nauru, Air Niugini was flying Boeing 707 aircraft nonstop from Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea and Air Tungaru was operating Boeing 727-100 aircraft nonstop from Christmas Island . Also in 1983, Honolulu-based South Pacific Island Airways was operating nonstop Boeing 707 service from Anchorage, Guam, Pago Pago and Papeete.\n\nIn April 1974, American Airlines, Braniff International, Continental Airlines, Northwest Airlines, Pan Am, TWA, United Airlines and Western Airlines were all operating nonstop services on domestic routes from the U.S. mainland while CP Air, a Canadian airline, was operating international nonstop service from Vancouver and on to the South Pacific during the mid 1970s. Just over 25 years later in June 1999, U.S.-based air carriers operating domestic nonstop services from the mainland included American Airlines, American Trans Air, Continental, Delta Air Lines, Hawaiian Airlines, Northwest, TWA and United while Air Canada, Canadian Airlines International (the successor to CP Air) and Canada 3000 were operating nonstop services from Canada.\n\nOn March 24, 2006, Hawaii Governor Linda Lingle unveiled a $2.3 billion modernization program for Hawaii airports over a 12-year period, with $1.7 billion budgeted for Honolulu International Airport. The plan involves implementing short-term projects within the first five years to improve passenger service and increase security and operational efficiencies.\n\nAs part of the modernization, flight display monitors throughout the airport have been upgraded, new food and beverage vendors have been added, and a new parking garage across from the International Arrivals terminal has been completed. Current projects include an international arrivals corridor with moving sidewalks built atop the breezeway leading to the Ewa Concourse. The first phase of the project was completed in October 2009, while the remainder of the two phase project was completed in 2010.\n\nIn 2011, Hawaiian Airlines renovated the check-in lobby of the Interisland Terminal, replacing the traditional check-in counters with six circular check-in islands in the middle of the lobbies, which can be used for inter-island, mainland, and international flights. This renovation project was fully funded by Hawaiian Airlines and not a part of the modernization program.\n\nFuture projects include construction of a Mauka Concourse branching off the Interisland Terminal, the first concourse expansion at Honolulu International Airport in 15 years. Construction of the concourse will involve replacing the existing Commuter Terminal. This new concourse will be for the exclusive use of Hawaiian Airlines, and will allow it to reduce use of overseas terminal gates for international and US mainland flights. This will mean less walking for passengers who check in, clear security, and use the baggage claim at the inter-island terminal. It will also free up gates in the overseas terminal for use by other airlines. Landside plans include construction of a consolidated rental car facility (CONRAC). A temporary rental car center is currently being built in the overseas parking garage so that the existing rental car facilities can be demolished to make way for the new permanent facility.\n\nBy 2012, Hawaiian Airlines was re-establishing Honolulu International Airport as a connecting hub between the United States mainland and the Asia-Pacific region. That year, according to a Massachusetts Institute of Technology study, the airport had 24% fewer domestic departure flights than it did in 2007.\n\nDuring the 2016 legislative session, the Hawaii state legislature passed a resolution requesting the Department of Transportation to rename Honolulu International Airport for the late U.S. Senator and Medal of Honor recipient Daniel Inouye. The new name first appeared in Federal Aviation Administration documentation on April 27, 2017, and the airport was officially renamed in a ceremony at the airport on May 30, 2017.\n\nOn June 1, 2018, the Department of Transportation started renumbering all gates and baggage claim numbers. Gates were renamed alphanumerically and baggage claim numbers were renumbered from alphanumerical to numerical. The Hawaii Department of Transportation cited the expansion of existing terminals in the airport as a reason to renumber all gates and baggage claims. \n\nDaniel K. Inouye International Airport is part of a centralized state structure governing all of the airports and seaports of Hawaii. The official authority of Honolulu International Airport is the Governor of Hawaii, who appoints the Director of the Hawaii State Department of Transportation who has jurisdiction over the Hawaii Airports Administrator.\n\nThe Hawaii Airports Administrator oversees six governing bodies: Airports Operations Office, Airports Planning Office, Engineering Branch, Information Technology Office, Staff Services Office, Visitor Information Program Office. Collectively, the six bodies have authority over the four airport districts in Hawaii: Hawaii District, Kauai District, Maui District and the principal Oahu District. Honolulu International Airport is a subordinate of the Oahu District officials.\n\nThe airport has four major runways, which it operates in conjunction with the adjacent Hickam Air Force Base. The principal runway designated 8R/26L, also known as the Reef Runway, was the world's first major runway constructed entirely offshore. Completed in 1977, the Reef Runway was a designated alternate landing site for the Space Shuttle.\n\nIn addition to the four paved runways, Honolulu International Airport has two designated offshore runways designated 8W/26W and 4W/22W for use by seaplanes.\n\nThe airport covers a total area of 4,220 acres (1,708 ha) of land.\n\nThe entire terminal complex features twenty-four-hour medical services, restaurants, shopping centers and a business center with conference rooms for private use. Passengers have the option of using various short-term and long-term parking structures on the grounds of Honolulu International Airport.\n\nFor the 12-month period ending June 30, 2018, the airport had 310,179 aircraft operations, an average of 850 per day. Of these movements 52% were scheduled commercial, 31% air taxi, 12% general aviation and 4% military. There are 200 aircraft based at this airport: 53% single-engine, 17% multi-engine, 16% military, 11% helicopter and 4% jet.\n\nAll Nippon Airways has its Honolulu Office in Airport Building 47. When Mid-Pacific Airlines was in operations, its headquarters were on the airport property.\n\nDaniel K. Inouye International Airport has three terminals: Terminal 1, Terminal 2, and Terminal 3. The Wiki Wiki Shuttle provides inter-terminal transportation between the ticket lobbies of all three terminals and between the concourses in terminals 1 and 2. All gates in terminals 1 and 2 are connected post-security; however, passengers walking from Terminal 1 to gates in Terminal 2 must pass through a USDA agricultural inspection station for carry-on luggage.\n\nEffective June 1, 2018, the gate numbers at Daniel K. Inouye International Airport were renamed to an alphanumeric format, and the baggage claim numbers (formerly alphanumeric) were renumbered to numeric. These changes are intended to accommodate expansion with the new Mauka and Diamond Head concourses.\n\nTerminal 1, formerly known as the “Interisland Terminal,” opened in 1993. The $130 million 8-gate terminal was the largest construction project undertaken at that time by the State Airports Division and replaced an earlier terminal built in 1961. In 1995, a 5-gate extension to the terminal, which also featured a new post-security walkway to Terminal 2 (formerly known as the “Overseas Terminal”) opened. \n\nTerminal 1 houses Hawaiian Airlines (interisland and some U.S. mainland and international flights). Terminal 1 has 13 gates.\n\nTerminal 2, formerly known as the \"Overseas Terminal,\" opened on August 22, 1962. From 1970 through 1978, architect Vladimir Ossipoff designed a terminal modernization project that remodeled this terminal and created several additions, which included the Diamond Head Concourse in 1970, the Ewa Concourse in 1972, and the Central Concourse in 1980.\n\nTerminal 2 houses AirAsia X, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, Alaska Airlines, All Nippon Airways, American Airlines, Asiana Airlines, Boyd Vacations Hawaii, China Airlines, China Eastern Airlines, Delta Airlines, Fiji Airways, Hawaiian Airlines (U.S. mainland and international flights) Japan Airlines, Jetstar Airways, Jin Air, Korean Air, Philippine Airlines, Qantas, Scoot, Sun Country Airlines, United Airlines, and WestJet. \n\nTerminal 2 has 29 gates across three concourses. All gates in the terminal are designated as common-use, shared among all the airlines. No gates are assigned to any specific airline and can change daily based on need.\n\n Terminal 3, formerly known as the “Commuter Terminal,” opened on May 29, 2018 between the Delta and United Cargo facilities on the Diamond Head side of the airport. The terminal was originally a single-story facility located north of Terminal 1 adjacent to Nimitz Highway, but was closed on June 1, 2018 for demolition in order to make way for the Mauka Concourse expansion of Terminal 1. Originally a larger replacement commuter terminal was planned to be built on the Diamond Head side of the airport, but those plans were ultimately canceled. This was largely due to bankruptcy of three of the four airlines occupying the terminal and the higher-than-expected cost of the project. \n\nTerminal 3 houses Mokulele Airlines. All boarding and deplaning are conducted directly on the apron. Terminal 3 has one ground-level gate.\n\nA number of fixed-base operators are located along Lagoon Drive on the airport's southeastern perimeter. While these focus on general aviation services, there are a few small passenger airline operations that operate from these facilities, rather than from the main terminal complex. Air tour flights typically depart from this area as well.\n\nThe largest airline at Honolulu airport is Hawaiian Airlines offering 13,365 seats per day, which represents a 45% market share. The No. 2 and No. 3 carriers are United and Japan Airlines (JAL) with 7.7% and 7.4% market share respectively.\n\nTraffic between Honolulu and the mainland United States is dominated by flights to and from Los Angeles and San Francisco. These two cities, plus Seattle, account for around half of all flights between the mainland and Honolulu. Hawaiian Airlines, with 11 routes, has the highest market share on routes between Honolulu and the continental United States.\n\nInternationally, Japan is the dominant market. Two-thirds of international seats head for Nagoya, Osaka, and Tokyo (both Haneda and Narita airports) with services provided by Japan Airlines, Air Japan, China Airlines, Korean Airlines, Delta, Hawaiian, or United. Narita alone is served with 61 weekly departures and is the second busiest international route from the United States, trailing only the lucrative John F. Kennedy Airport-London Heathrow route.\n\nOther major international routes are to Seoul (25 weekly departures operated by Korean Airlines, Asiana Airlines, Hawaiian, and Jin Air), Sydney (12 weekly departures operated by Hawaiian, Jetstar and Qantas) and Vancouver (19 weekly departures split between Air Canada and Westjet).\n\nIn October 2009, China-based Hainan Airlines was granted approval for a nonstop flight from Honolulu to Beijing. It would be the first mainland Chinese carrier to serve Hawaii and the airline's second US destination after Seattle. The airline originally planned to launch the service by the summer of 2010, but the route has been further delayed due to visa concerns and landing fees. China Eastern, however, announced that it will begin nonstop flights from Honolulu to Shanghai on August 9, 2011 instead, marking the first ever direct, regularly scheduled service between China and Hawaii. On January 21, 2014, Air China launched the second China-Hawaii route with nonstop flights from Honolulu to Beijing, also the first nonstop route between the 2 cities.\n\nLas Vegas based Allegiant Air used to offer once-weekly non-stop service to many smaller markets in the mainland Western United States. These cities included Bellingham, Boise, Eugene, Fresno, Spokane, and Stockton. Allegiant still offers service to Las Vegas and Los Angeles. It was announced that Allegiant plans to drop service to Honolulu altogether in August 2016.\n\nTheBus routes 19, 20, and 31 stop on the upper (departure) level of the airport. Routes 19 and 20 connect the airport to Pearlridge Center (20 only), Hickam AFB (19 only), Downtown Honolulu, Ala Moana Center, and Waikiki. Route 31 connects the airport to Tripler Army Medical Center, via Kalihi Transit Center. Routes 9, 40, 42, and 51 run on Nimitz Highway within walking distance of the airport.\n\nWhen Honolulu Rail Transit phase II opens in 2025, there will be a station at the airport connecting it to Downtown Honolulu and points west of the airport.\n\n\nThe airport has been featured in several episodes of the \"Hawaii Five-0\" (2010) television series, as well as in the 2006 film, \"Snakes on a Plane\", and the 2014 film \"Godzilla\". The latter was actually only featured in a single exterior shot as all scenes filmed at the \"airport\" were actually filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50316609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50316609", "title": "Daylight Nigeria", "text": "Daylight Nigeria\n\nDaylight Newspaper Nigeria is an independent daily online newspaper published in Lagos, Nigeria, by Mattuxx Media Limited The publisher/Editor-in-Chief of Daylight Newspaper, which was established in 2014, is Azuh Amatus (NGE), a multiple award-winning journalist. He is also the Chairman and Founder of Daylight Annual Leadership Awards (DALA), an award scheme that rewards and celebrates excellence in leadership positions.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "43770676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43770676", "title": "Denumire de origine controlată", "text": "Denumire de origine controlată\n\nDenumire de origine controlată (DOC) is a Romanian language appellation regime in Europe to designate food with a particular origin. It is part of the Geographical indications and traditional specialties in the European Union system, and is used for various agricultural products, including wine and other products. One example of a product containing this designation is Magiun of Topoloveni jam, which has a Protected Geographical Status from the European Union.\n"}
{"id": "31822400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31822400", "title": "Economic history of the Philippines", "text": "Economic history of the Philippines\n\nAfter experiencing years of positive growth, the Philippine economy between 1973 and 1986 suffered a downturn due to a mixture of domestic and international problems. Those were the years the country was under Ferdinand Marcos and martial law, witnessed the assassination of Benigno Aquino, Jr., saw changes to the Philippine energy law, and the popularity of the EDSA People Power Revolution.\n\nPresident Ferdinand E. Marcos declared martial law in the midst of rising student movements and an increasing number communist and socialist groups lobbying for reforms in their respective sectors. Leftists held rallies to express their frustrations to the government, this restiveness culminating in the First Quarter Storm, where activists stormed Malacañang Palace only to be turned back by the Philippine Constabulary. This event in particular left four people dead and many injured after heavy exchanges of gunfire. There was further unrest, and in the middle of the disorder on 21 September 1972, Marcos issued Proclamation No. 1081, effectively installing martial law in the Philippines, a declaration that suspended civil rights and imposed military rule in the country.\n\nMarcos defended his actions stressing the need for extra powers to quell the rising wave of violence allegedly caused by the communists. He further justified the decree citing the provisions from the Philippine Constitution that martial law is in fact a strategic approach to legally defend the Constitution and protect the welfare of the Filipino people from the dangerous threats posed by vigilantes that place national security at risk. The emergency rule, according to Marcos's plan, was to lead the country into what he calls a “New Society”.\n\nThe move was initially supported by most Filipinos and viewed by some critics as a change that would solve the massive corruption in the country. Indeed, it ended the clash between the executive and legislative branches of the government and a bureaucracy characterized by special interests. The declaration, however, eventually proved unpopular as excesses, continued corruption, and human rights abuses by the military emerged.\n\n The GDP of the Philippines rose during the martial law, rising from P55 million to P19.3 billion in about 8 years. This growth was spurred by massive lending from commercial banks, accounting for about 62% percent of external debt. As a developing country, the Philippines during the martial law was one of the heaviest borrowers. These aggressive moves were seen by critics as a means of legitimizing martial law by purportedly enhancing the chances of the country in the global market. Much of the money was spent on pump-priming to improve infrastructure and promote tourism. However, despite the aggressive borrowing and spending policies, the Philippines lagged behind its Southeast Asia counterparts in GDP growth rate per capita. The country, in 1970–1980, only registered an average 3.4 percent growth, while its counterparts like Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia garnered a mean growth of 5.4 percent. This lag, which became very apparent at the end of the Marcos Regime, can be attributed to the failures of economic management that was brought upon by State-run monopolies, mismanaged exchange rates, imprudent monetary policy and debt management, all underpinned by rampant corruption and cronyism. “[…]main characteristics distinguishing the Marcos years from other periods of our history has been the trend towards the concentration of power in the hands of the government, and the use of governmental functions to dispense economic privileges to some small factions in the private sector.”\n\nGovernment efforts to pump-prime the economy to increase income and encourage spending, unemployment and underemployment grew. The unemployment rate decreased from 5.2 to 0.9 percent from 1978–1983, while employment was a problem, the latter tripling, in the same time period, from 10.2 to 29.0 percent. Concurrently, the labor force of the Philippines grew at an average 10.47 percent in 1970-1983. This can be attributed to an increasing number of women seeking work in the market.\n\nIncome equality grew during the era of martial law as the richest 60% of the nation were able to contribute only 92.5% of the income in 1980, up from 25.0% in 1970. The richest 80%, meanwhile, took a larger share of the income at 91.7% in 1980, up from 57.1% in 1970. These trends coincided with accusations of cronyism in the Marcos administration, as the administration faced allegations of favoring certain companies that were close to the ruling family.\n\nAccording to the FIES (Family Income and Expenditure Survey) conducted from 1965 to 1985, poverty incidence in the Philippines rose from 11% in 1965 to 18.9% in 1985. This can be attributed to lower real agricultural wages and higher real wages for unskilled and skilled laborers. Real agricultural wages rose about 25% from their 1962 level, while real wages for unskilled and skilled laborers increased by about one-third of their 1962 level.\n\nIn the two decades of Marcos's rule, Philippine economic development strategy had three central pillars: the Green Revolution, Export Agriculture and forestry, and foreign borrowing.\n\nRice, the foundation of the Philippine economy, is the country’s single most important crop, and the staple food for much of the population. It is especially important to the country's poor majority, as both consumers and producers.\n\nIn 1973, the martial law regime merged all coconut-related, government operations within a single agency, the Philippine Coconut Authority (PCA). The PCA was empowered to collect a levy of P0.55 per 100 kilograms on the sale of copra to be used to stabilize the domestic price of coconut-based consumer goods, particularly cooking oil. In 1974, the government created the Coconut Industry Development Fund (CIDF) to finance the development of a hybrid coconut tree. To finance the project, the levy was increased to P20.[5]\n\nAlso in 1974, coconut planters, led by the Coconut Producers Federation (Cocofed), an organization of large planters, took control of the PCA governing board. In 1975 the PCA acquired a bank, renamed the United Coconut Planters Bank, to service the needs of coconut farmers, and the PCA director, Eduardo Cojuangco, a business associate of Marcos, became its president. Levies collected by the PCA were placed in the bank, initially interest-free.[5]\n\nThe architects of this technology had one overriding objective: increased food production. Proponents of the strategy expected, however, that the new rice technology would also have a positive distributional impact on the poor. Three major benefits were taken to be virtually self-evident:\n\nThe following key factors of the new rice technology were interdependent. That is, if one was absent, the productivity of the others was greatly reduced.\n\nAmong these, water control remains a key constraint in Philippine rice agriculture. Improvements in often “can be most efficiently achieved by the mobilization of community labor”, but this poses problems with respect to public welfare. How will labor commitments and other costs be apportioned? How will irrigation water be fairly allocated? In some places, these problems have been resolved; but elsewhere, conflict and mistrust among individuals have “impeded collective action”.\n\nThe green revolution brought temporary relief from this impasse, allowing the country to achieve substantial rice yield increases via the shift to new seed-fertilizer technology. But constraints in irrigation did not permit the new varieties to attain their full potential yields, nor did it permit much increase in multiple cropping.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the average coconut farm was a medium-sized unit of less than four hectares. Owners, often absentee, customarily employed local peasants to collect coconuts rather than engage in tenancy relationships. The villagers were paid on a piece-rate basis. Those employed in the coconut industry tended to be less educated and older than the average person in the rural labor force and earned lower-than-average incomes.[5]\nIn addition, economic theory tells us that consumers in general, and poor consumers in particular, will benefit from increased output and the resulting price declines. Despite the positive impact of lower prices on poor consumers, absolute poverty increased. “Cheaper rice mitigated, but did not reverse the trend towards impoverishment.”\n\nThe year 1962 was a good one for Philippine export agriculture. Devaluation and deregulation of foreign exchange brought windfall profits to agro-exporters, and were widely seen as a “political triumph” for its main traditional exports.\n\nIn 1978 the United Coconut Planters Bank was given legal authority to purchase coconut mills, ostensibly as a measure to cope with excess capacity in the industry. At the same time, mills not owned by coconut farmers—that is, Cocofed members or entities it controlled through the PCA—were denied subsidy payments to compensate for the price controls on coconut-based consumer products. By early 1980, it was reported in the Philippine press that the United Coconut Oil Mills, a PCA-owned firm, and its president, Cojuangco, controlled 80 percent of the Philippine oil-milling capacity.[5] Minister of Defense Juan Ponce Enrile also exercised strong influence over the industry as chairman of both the United Coconut Planters Bank and United Coconut Oil Mills and honorary chairman of Cocofed. An industry composed of some 0.5 million farmers and 14,000 traders was, by the early 1980s, highly monopolized.[5]\n\nIn principle, the coconut farmers were to be the beneficiaries of the levy, which between March 1977 and September 1981 stabilized at P76 per 100 kilograms. Contingent benefits included life insurance, educational scholarships, and a cooking oil subsidy, but few actually benefited. The aim of the replanting program, controlled by Cojuangco, was to replace aging coconut trees with a hybrid of a Malaysian dwarf and West African tall varieties. The new palms were to produce five times the weight per year of existing trees. The target of replanting 60,000 trees a year was not met.[5] In 1983, 25 to 30 percent of coconut trees were estimated to be at least 60 years old; by 1988, the proportion had increased to between 35 and 40 percent.[5]\n\nWhen coconut prices began to fall in the early 1980s, pressure mounted to alter the structure of the industry. In 1985, the Philippine government agreed to dismantle the United Coconut Oil Mills as part of an agreement with the IMF to bail out the Philippine economy. Later in 1988, United States law requiring foods using tropical oils to be labeled indicating the saturated fat content had a negative impact on an already ailing industry and gave rise to protests from coconut growers that similar requirements were not levied on oils produced in temperate climates.[5]\nPhilippine earnings, nevertheless, did not rise equally owing to worsening terms of trade. The country experienced severely declining terms of trade and great price instability for its agricultural exports from 1962 to 1985. These price movements were “the result of external political and economic forces over which the Philippines could exercise little control.” Thus relying on export agriculture as an “engine of economic growth” proved unfeasible.\n\nThe effects of this special treatment of favorites soon became apparent. Their products were of poor quality and were poor value of money.\nThe traditional economic mainstay of the Philippine ruling elite has been export agriculture. Development strategy in the Marcos era continued to rely on this sector as a major source of income and foreign exchange, between 1962 and 1985, export crop acreage more than doubled. Earnings did not rise commensurately, however, owing to worsening terms of trade.\n\nForeign borrowing was a key element in Philippine development strategy during the Marcos era. The primary rationale was “borrowed money would speed the growth of the Philippine economy, improving the well-being of present and future generations of Filipinos”.\n\n The Marcos regime cornered an increasing share of the profits from the traditional export crops, sugar cane and coconut. The result was a redistribution of income from agro-export elite as a whole to a politically well-connected subset of that elite.\nIn declaring martial law, Marcos promised to save the country from “an oligarchy that appropriated for itself all power and bounty.” But while he did indeed tame selected oligarchs most threatening to his regime, was a “new oligarchy” of Marcos and his relatives and cronies which achieved dominance within many economic sectors. While foreign loans sustained decrease in the 1970s, crony abuses brought economic disaster in the early 1980s (de Dios, 1984). Most fundamentally, martial law perpetuated important shortcomings of the Philippine capitalism, because Marcos was merely expanding earlier patterns of patrimonial plunder. Particularistic demands continued to prevail, the difference being that one ruler now appropriated a much larger proportion of the state apparatus toward the service of his own private end. As the economic crisis intensified – especially after the 1983 assassination of opposition leader Benigno S. Aquino – the IMF transformed itself from “doting parent” to\" vengeful god\" and forced a wrenching process of economic stabilization that induced severe recession. This heightened the regime's unpopularity, assisted the continuing growth of both leftist and moderate resistance throughout the archipelago, and paved away for the Marcos regime's demise amid the “people power” uprising of February 1986. More thoroughgoing attempts at reform awaited the advent of a new democratic era.\nMarcos increased the stature of technocrats within the government and, through their public rhetoric in favor of policy reform, help to ensure the continued flow of loans into the country. Over time, however, became increasingly clear that technocracy would have to give way to an acquisitive and more influential diversified family conglomerates. Marcos and his cronies used access to the political machinery to accumulate wealth, and – like the major families of the pre-martial law years - had little loyalty to the nation. The cronyism of the Marcos regime was more obvious than the cronyism of either the pre-1972 period or the post-1986 years, since the regime had more centralized control over the state apparatus and enjoyed much longer tenure in office.\nWhile special interest groups continued to prevail, the difference was that a dictator now had a much firmer grip on the state apparatus to service his own private end.\nOligarchic plunder was manifest in the crony capitalists that controlled the industries during the dictatorial regime. Crony capitalists “were businessmen who walk the corridors of the presidency and by virtue of this proximity to Marcos drove policy making and by doing so were able to control specific sectors of the economy.”\n\nThe mixed but generally positive results of the stabilization period were\naccompanied by rising domestic political tensions and violence. The 1969\nelection, in which Marcos had been returned for a second term, was a low\npoint in the Philippine electoral process. Marcos had spent far more than any\nprevious incumbent in seeking re-election against an opponent who was\ngenerally given little chance of success. The campaign and election were\nalso more violent than previous elections; by one estimate, two hundred\npeople were killed during the campaign (Shaplen 1979, 21 1). The election\ngreatly heightened political animosities and spawned violent protests by\nstudent groups in 1970 and 1971, directed against Marcos but also against\nthe Philippine Congress, which was widely dismissed as corrupt, inefficient,\nand obstructionist. Public cynicism toward the government was increased by\nthe constitutional convention that Marcos called in 1971, which was a thinly\ndisguised attempt to extend his hold on power beyond the eight-year\nmaximum in the existing constitution. This period also saw the reorganiza- \n385 PhilippinesKhapter 1\ntion and heightened activity of the Communist Party of the Philippines\n(CPP).\n\nBetween 1962 and 1986, the external debt of the Philippine grew from $355 million to $28.3 billion. By the end of the Marcos years, the Philippines was the “ninth most indebted nation in Asia, Africa, and Latin America in absolute terms”.\n\nThe Marcos regime, during the early to mid-'70s, focused primarily on improving the economy and the country's public image through major increases in government spending particularly on infrastructures. Its main beneficiaries were the tourism industry, with numerous constructions, such as the Philippine International Convention Center, hotels, and even the hosting of international events like the Miss Universe and IMF forums to be able to improve the international status of the county. This policy generally continued even through the 1980s, when the world was experiencing stagflation, an international debt crisis, and high increases of interest rates.\n\nThe early effects of the increase in government spending were generally positive. Private businesses and firms, seeing this action by the government, felt bullish and also engaged in aggressive investment and spending patterns. Initially, the gross domestic capital formation to GDP rose up to 28% and foreign investments to the country also increased.\n\nThe government, in the 1970s, also focused on an “Export-led Industrialization Program” which focused on “non-traditional manufactured exports and foreign investments.” This led to an increase of foreign direct investment in the country particularly to manufacture export-oriented goods. This program also allowed the government to be able to “shift the composition of exports toward a more balanced mix between non-traditional manufactures and primary/agricultural exports.”\n\nWith this growth in the export sector, there also accompanied growth in the import sector particularly since imported raw materials (also known as intermediate imports) were sourced for domestically produced goods. This led to the worsening deficit at that time, especially by the end of the decade, accompanied by the second oil price shock.\n\nThe evening of the attack, citing a conspiracy of leftist and rightist groups and the Muslim secessionist movement, Marcos declared martial law. That night, hundreds of persons were arrested by the military, including opposition politicians and journalists. Radio and television stations were closed, and the country's newspapers shut down. The Congress was dissolved, and under martial law powers, Marcos began to rule by presidential decree. The constitutional convention that was formed in 1971 continued, minus some dozen opposition leaders who had been detained, and in 1973 it produced a draft constitution providing for a transition to a parliamentary form of government. The length of the transition period was left to Marcos’ discretion, and the draft constitution also gave Marcos the ability to dismiss any member of the judiciary. The new constitution was ratified in a hastily organized referendum and upheld by the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Post-EDSA macroeconomic history of the Philippines covers the period from 1986 to the present time, and takes off from the acclaimed People Power Revolution in the EDSA Revolution of 1986 (named after Epifanio de los Santos Avenue in Manila) that brought democracy and development potentials back to the country that was once in the perils of the Martial Law Era. From days, months, and even years of economic and financial collapse towards the end of that Martial Law Era came revolution, reform, and sustenance spearheaded by the Aquino, Ramos, Estrada, and Arroyo administrations that saw the Philippines get back on track and even through some of the wildest financial and political crises, such as the succeeding EDSA Revolutions, the Asian Financial Crisis, and the most recent “bubble bursts,” among others. Revolutions, liberal ideas, and reforms aided the country towards robust growth, and crucial policies were conceptualized, developed, and enacted by the presidents and the advisers who supported them. The period also featured the emergence of civil society as important proponents of development, trade reforms and protections, improvements in exports and export-oriented manufacturing, and decentralization as an important take-off point for regional development.\n\nTable 1: GDP Growth Rates from 1986 to 2010 \n\nTable 2: Headline Inflation Rates from 1986 to 2010 \n\nThe Aquino administration takes over an economy that has gone through socio-political disasters during the People Power revolution, where there was financial and commodity collapse caused by an overall consumer cynicism, a result of the propaganda against cronies, social economic unrest resulting from numerous global shortages, massive protests, lack of government transparency, the opposition's speculations and alleged corruption in the government. At that point in time, the country had debt that began crippling the country which slowly made the Philippines the “Latin-American in East Asia” as it started to experience the worst recession since the post-war era.\n\nMost of the immediate efforts of the Aquino administration was directed in reforming the image of the country and paying off all debts, including those that some governments were ready to write-off, as possible. This resulted in budget cuts and further aggravated the plight of the lower class because the jobs offered to them by the government was now gone. Infrastructure projects, including repairs, were halted in secluded provinces turning concrete roads into asphalt. Privatization of many government corporations, most catering utilities, was the priority of the Aquino administration which led to massive lay-offs and inflation. The Aquino administration however, was persistent in its belief that the problems were caused by the previous administration.\n\nGrowth gradually began in the next few years of the administration. Somehow, there was still a short-lived, patchy, and erratic recovery from 1987 to 1991 as the political situation stabilized a bit. With this, the peso became more competitive, confidence of investors was gradually regained, positive movements in terms of trade were realized, and regional growth gradually strengthened.\n\nThere were other key events in the administration that affected the economy. Perhaps the first most important, aside from the ratification of the 1987 Constitution, would be the administration's pushing for a more open political framework where the administration somehow gave in to the interests of new economic actors. This approach, which also proved important in regaining the confidence of investors, whether domestic or foreign, was definitely unthinkable during the Marcos era. The administration was also characterized by the rescheduling and management of international debts, an exhibition perhaps of the fact that other external entities also sympathized with what happened to the Philippines and also allowed the Philippines to get back on track before anything else.\n\nDevelopment in this administration, however, was slightly bothered by some unforeseen circumstances such as organized coups by the Reformed Armed Forces Movement in 1991. Negotiations with Mindanao also stalled development along with the coup attempts. The Philippines was also hit by the oil price hike effects of the Gulf War. Pressure on government spending and safety nets was intensified as natural calamities like earthquakes and the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo plagued the country, just as if the daily brownouts were not bad enough.\n\nOne of the most important policies of the administration is the launching of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program in June 1988, which involved the acquisition and redistribution of all agricultural lands within a time frame of 10 years. So far, the law has already had numerous accomplishments since it was actually passed. There were setbacks, however, in the overall implementation of this reform program such as the Garchitorena scandal (1989) tainting the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and supposedly exposing inefficiencies in the government bureaucracy. Another important breakthrough involved in the program was the fact that the program was also seen as a way to address poverty and equity issues.\n\nAlso important in the administration were the trade reforms. The trade reforms pushed by the administration were those that improved export growth and foreign trade through the abolishing of export taxes, the gradual liberalization of imports, and the imposition of an anti-export bias ideal. The reforms also involved the reduction in trade barriers, more specifically by removing restrictions on imports and reforming the import-licensing system. Tariff rates were also eventually reduced to encourage more foreign trade. The administration was also a big part in the realization of the ASEAN Free Trade Area which also served as encouragement for foreign trade.\n\nSome other policies in the administration included fiscal contraction in order to control and manage inflation (Balisacan and Hill, “The Philippine Economy” 110). The administration was also able to reorganize the National Economic and Development Authority, or NEDA, to its present form last July 22, 1987 and the Philippine Exporters’ Confederation (PHILEXPORT) in October 1991. The administration was also instrumental in introducing a new framework for infrastructure development which said that “the government should provide the enabling policy environment for greater private sector participation in infrastructure provision” (Balisacan and Hill, “The Dynamics” 330). As for industry dispersal and regional growth, the administration conceptualized and enforced the Local Government Code of 1991 which increased the autonomy and development of Local Government Units through decentralization.\n\nThe Ramos administration basically served its role as the carrier of the momentum of reform and as an important vehicle in “hastening the pace of liberalization and openness in the country”. The administration was a proponent of capital account liberalization, which made the country more open to foreign trade, investments, and relations. It was during this administration when the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas was established, and this administration was also when the Philippines joined the World Trade Organization and other free trade associations such as the APEC. During the administration, debt reduction was also put into consideration and as such, the issuance of certain government bonds called Brady Bonds also came to fruition in 1992. Key negotiations with conflicting forces in Mindanao actually became more successful during the administration, which also highlighted the great role and contributions of Jose Almonte as the key adviser of this liberal administration.\n\nBy the time Ramos succeeded Corazon Aquino in 1992, the Philippine economy was already burdened with a heavy budget deficit. This was largely the result of austerity measures imposed by a standard credit arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and the destruction caused by natural disasters such as the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo. Hence, according to Canlas, pump priming through government spending was immediately ruled out due to the deficit. Ramos therefore resorted to institutional changes through structural policy reforms, of which included privatization and deregulation. He sanctioned the formation of the Legislative-Executive Development Advisory Council (LEDAC), which served as a forum for consensus building, on the part of the Executive and the Legislative branches, on important bills on economic policy reform measures (4).\n\nThe daily brownouts that plagued the economy were also addressed through the enactment of policies that placed guaranteed rates. The economy during the first year of Ramos administration suffered from severe power shortage, with frequent brownouts, each lasting from 8 to 12 hours. To resolve this problem, the Electric Power Crisis Act was made into law together with the Build-Operate-Transfer Law. Twenty power plants were built because of these, and in effect, the administration was able to eliminate the power shortage problems in December 1993 and sustained economic growth for some time.\n\nThe economy seemed to be all set for long-run growth, as shown by sustainable and promising growth rates from 1994 to 1997. However, the Asian Crisis contagion which started from Thailand and Korea started affecting the Philippines. This prompted the Philippine economy to plunge into continuous devaluation and very risky ventures, resulting in property busts and a negative growth rate. The remarkable feat of the administration, however, was that it was able to withstand the contagion effect of the Asian Crisis better than anybody else in the neighboring countries. Most important in the administration was that it made clear the important tenets of reform, which included economic liberalization, stronger institutional foundations for development, redistribution, and political reform.\n\nPerhaps some of the most important policies and breakthroughs of the administration are the Capital Account Liberalization and the subsequent commitments to free trade associations such as APEC, AFTA, GATT, and WTO. The liberalization and opening of the capital opening culminated in full-peso convertibility in 1992. And then another breakthrough is again, the establishment of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which also involved the reduction of debts in that the debts of the old central bank were taken off its books.\n\nIn line with the administration's “Philippines 2000” platform, the administration gave more favor to privatization and targeted the proliferation of cartels and monopolies, especially in some key industries such as telecommunications. To further raise revenues, President Ramos also administered the privatization of Petron, Philippine National Bank (PNB), Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewage System (MWSS) and military-based lands such as Fort Bonifacio and Clark Air Base. As part of the administration's competition policy, the administration also advocated for deregulation of service industries to promote foreign investment and increase private sector participation. For monetary policy, the administration focused on “inflating targeting and the imposition of a floating exchange rate with a managed band”. With this, inflation stayed under control in the 1990s and indeed, the 1990s became an era of reform and at the same time, a period of optimism.\n\nFor fiscal policy, on the other hand, the administration worked on bills to expand the scope of VAT. Due to the need to reduce budget deficit, tax-enhancement measures were imposed. Among these were the “upward adjustment in the excise tax on cigarettes, withholding VAT or value-added tax on government contractors and suppliers, and establishment of a large taxpayers’ unit in the Bureau of Internal Revenue\" which increased tax revenue of government. There was even a budget surplus in the years 1994 to 1996 due to the effective tax-enhancement program by the administration.\n\nThe Ramos administration basically continued the actions of the Aquino administration for infrastructures and industry dispersal. This administration, however, would also have some contributions to welfare. The administration's population policy promoted population management and family planning, while the administration's Social Reform Agenda (SRA) addressed poverty through flagship programs. Completion of the CARP, or Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program, was one such breakthrough incorporated in the SRA. By June 1998, it was reported by the government that it had only managed to accomplish 57%, a figure still far from the planned total ten year target from the original timetable for land distribution (Ochoa 167).\n\nFurthermore, Ramos was wholly focused on institutional reform in an attempt to capture the international community's perception of an improving a Philippine economy, with the agenda of increasing global competitiveness. The rural sector's interest was not much represented. Farmers had insufficient funding for rural infrastructure and support services while real estate developers agreed on better deals. To quote Ochoa, “the liberalization of agriculture ensured their dependence on so-called safety nets that could not significantly resuscitate the sector. Six years of ‘dipping productivity, declining incomes, dwindling farmlands and pervasive poverty’ will be hard to forget\" (165).\n\nIn the end, the Philippine economy under the Ramos administration gained recognition in breaking out of its deficit-laden stature in Asia. “The confidence generated by the administration among local and international players and analysts resulted from wide‐ranging reforms rooted primarily in a sound macroeconomic and investor‐friendly regime as well as global competitiveness”. From 1993, one year's time after Ramos assumed presidency, the economy already started to recover from stagnation with real GDP growth peaking at 5.8% in 1996. Aside from this, it was also during his administration that allowed for the escape of the Philippine economy from recession, during the Asian Financial Crisis, unlike its Asian neighbors like Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia. His reforms have brought gains, broad spillover effects on the rest of the economy and possible positive long-term effects on economic growth. Surely, it is of no doubt that Ramos is commendable to have established strong political leadership that was mandatory in handling the reforms, prior to the weak state of the economy he inherited.\n\nAlthough Estrada's administration had to endure the continued shocks of the Asian Crisis contagion, the administration was also characterized by the administration's economic mismanagement and “midnight cabinets.” As if the pro-poor rhetoric, promises and drama were not really appalling enough, the administration also had “midnight cabinets composed of ‘drinking buddies’ influencing the decisions of the ‘daytime cabinet’”). Cronyism and other big issues caused the country’s image of economic stability to change towards the worse. And instead of adjustments happening, people saw further deterioration and hopelessness that better things can happen. Targeted revenues were not reached, implementation of policies became very slow, and fiscal adjustments were not efficiently conceptualized and implemented. All those disasters caused by numerous mistakes were made worse by the sudden entrance of the \"Jueteng\" controversy, which gave rise to the succeeding EDSA Revolutions.\n\nDespite all these controversies, the administration still had some meaningful and profound policies to applaud. The administration presents a reprise of the population policy, which involved the assisting of married couples to achieve their fertility goals, reduce unwanted fertility and match their unmet need for contraception. The administration also pushed for budget appropriations for family planning and contraceptives, an effort that was eventually stopped due to the fact that the church condemned it. The administration was also able to implement a piece of its overall Poverty Alleviation Plan, which involved the delivery of social services, basic needs, and assistance to the poor families. The Estrada administration also had limited contributions to Agrarian Reform, perhaps spurred by the acknowledgement that indeed, Agrarian Reform can also address poverty and inequitable control over resources. In that regard, the administration establishes the program “Sustainable Agrarian Reform Communities-Technical Support to Agrarian and Rural Development”. As for regional development, however, the administration had no notable contributions or breakthroughs.\n\nThe Arroyo administration, economically speaking, was a period of good growth rates simultaneous with the US, due perhaps to the emergence of the Overseas Filipino workers (OFW) and the Business Process Outsourcing (BPO). The emergence of the OFW and the BPO improved the contributions of OFW remittances and investments to growth. In 2004, however, fiscal deficits grew and grew as tax collections fell, perhaps due to rampant and wide scale tax avoidance and tax evasion incidences. Fearing that a doomsday prophecy featuring the [Argentina default] in 2002 might come to fruition, perhaps due to the same sort of fiscal crisis, the administration pushed for the enactment of the 12% VAT and the E-VAT to increase tax revenue and address the large fiscal deficits. This boosted fiscal policy confidence and brought the economy back on track once again.\n\nSoon afterwards, political instability afflicted the country and the economy anew with Abu Sayyaf terrors intensifying. The administration's Legitimacy Crisis also became a hot issue and threat to the authority of the Arroyo administration. Moreover, the Arroyo administration went through many raps and charges because of some controversial deals such as the NBN-ZTE Broadband Deal. Due however to the support of local leaders and the majority of the House of Representatives, political stability was restored and threats to the administration were quelled and subdued. Towards the end of the administration, high inflation rates for rice and oil in 2008 started to plague the country anew, and this led to another fiscal crisis, which actually came along with the major recession that the United States and the rest of the world were actually experiencing.\n\nThe important policies of the Arroyo administration highlighted the importance of regional development, tourism, and foreign investments into the country. Therefore, apart from the enactment and establishment of the E-VAT policy to address the worsening fiscal deficits, the administration also pushed for regional development studies in order to address certain regional issues such as disparities in regional per capita income and the effects of commercial communities on rural growth. The administration also advocated for investments to improve tourism, especially in other unexplored regions that actually need development touches as well. To further improve tourism, the administration launched the policy touching on Holiday Economics, which involves the changing of days in which we would celebrate certain holidays. Indeed, through the Holiday Economics approach, investments and tourism really improved. As for investment, the Arroyo administration would normally go through lots of trips to other countries in order to encourage foreign investments for the betterment of the Philippine economy and its development.\n\nThe Philippines consistently coined as one of the Newly Industrialized Countries has had a fair gain during the latter years under the Arroyo Presidency to the current administration. The government managed foreign debts falling from 58% in 2008 to 47% of total government borrowings. According to the 2012 World Wealth Report, the Philippines was the fastest growing economy in the world in 2010 with a GDP growth of 7.3% driven by the growing business process outsourcing and overseas remittances.\n\nThe country marked slipped to 3.6% in 2011 less emphasis on exports and the government spent less on infrastructure. Also the disruption of the flow of imports for raw material from floods in Thailand and the tsunami in Japan have affected the manufacturing sector in the same year. \"The Philippines contributed more than $125 million as of end-2011 to the pool of money disbursed by the International Monetary Fund to help address the financial crisis confronting economies in Europe.This was according to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, which reported Tuesday that the Philippines, which enjoys growing foreign exchange reserves, has made available about $251.5 million to the IMF to finance the assistance program—the Financial Transactions Plan (FTP)—for crisis-stricken countries.\"\nRemarkably the economy grew by 6.59% in 2012 the same year the Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona was impeached for a failed disclosure of statements of assets, liabilities and network or SALN coherent to the anti-corruption campaign of the administration. The Philippine Stock Exchange index ended in the year with 5,812.73 points a 32.95% growth from the 4,371.96-finish in 2011.\n\nBBB- investment grade by Fitch Ratings on the first quarter of 2013 for the country was made because of a resilient economy by remittances, growth despite the global economic crisis in the last five years reforms by the VAT reform law of 2005, BSP inflation management, good governance reforms under the Aquino administration.\n\nOne of the biggest issues of development is the management of the so-called “deep determinants” of economic growth and development. Thus, an issue for the economy today is to keep these determinants and factors in check. The determinants that countries have to keep in check would include physical infrastructure, demographics, population, geography, political and social stability, and investment atmosphere, among others. Now a question to raise here is how is the Philippines actually doing when it comes to these determinants?\n\nThe Philippines is falling behind neighbors when it comes to physical infrastructure. This period of global development is such a crucial period, and countries definitely cannot afford to “underinvest” in infrastructure development. Population, on the other hand, definitely has to be checked out. As of this moment in time, it seems as if the population is starting to become a slight puzzle to development and thus, issues directed towards population, such as the RH Bill issue, need to be resolved quickly. Moreover, aside from labor, the economy and institutions really have to start looking for more productive uses of population, or maybe ways in which population growth can be made to synch with economic growth. Population growth is also higher in the Philippines than in any of the neighboring countries so maximization of such a development can be of great help.\n\nMeanwhile, when it comes to the environment and natural resources, the Philippines continues to be plagued by the degradation and loss of precious natural resources. Typhoons like the ferocious tandem of Ondoy and Pepeng in 2009, as well as earthquakes, also continue to plague the country's resources. So aside from some explicit policies for environmental development and preservation such as the Clean Air Act and policies that regulate the waste materials of factories, the economy and the institutions should continue to address the problems faced by natural resources.\n\nPolitical and social stability are also important in maintaining sustainable development. Elections and competent leadership have to be kept organized and consistent with the kind of political organization that serves as a good premise for development. Legal and judicial processes have to undergo reform and the systems must become quicker this time. Consistency of policies is also an important thing to observe in the future because it seems that in the past administrations, many inconsistencies, most especially when it comes to economic policies, actually come into the picture as regimes change. Conflicts with Mindanao also have to be resolved once and for all.\n\nOne more major concern plaguing the country is the investment atmosphere prevalent in the country. Aside from the already mentioned underinvestment in infrastructure, some more investment issues that need to be addressed include the attention that must be given to corporate governance and the stock market and the protections that have to be developed for investments and property rights. The investment environment is still shaky, perhaps also because of the quality of government in the Philippines. Perhaps it is clear that the country and the institutions need to push for improved quality of governance for the betterment of the investment atmosphere in the country.\n\nGenerally, during the period in question, roughly a third of the population of the Philippines was below what is called the Threshold Family Income(TFI). Even until now, this continues to be true. Villegas presented that in 1991, poverty incidence hit 39.9%, and 4,780,865 families actually fell below the TFI value. Things became a bit better in 1994, with poverty incidence dropping to 35.5%. Gradually, poverty incidence dropped to around 26% in 2001 (586-588). This, however, still isn’t something to applaud about. Until now, the distribution of wealth in the country is still inequitable, and the lowering of poverty incidence does not mean that it is really low enough to serve as a premise for development. And even though poverty incidence keeps on getting lower and lower, other crucial welfare factors, such as education, are still left unanswered. Malnutrition, low life expectancy, substandard housing, and child labor are still rampant even today, and there is this clear need for food and nutrition, health, education, housing, utility improvements, just so the poor families can have better grasps of subsistence.\n\nVillegas enumerated some measures or ways to address poverty. Perhaps the first and most important of which is to “efficiently use the poor’s most abundant asset, which is labor” (597). Aside from these of course can come the provision of basic needs and the enactment of macroeconomic adjustments directed towards the development of the poor. Safety nets and other adjustment programs can also help.\n\nEach administration during the period in question also responded to calls to eradicate poverty in their own ways. The Aquino administration touched on the generation of employment opportunities and the promotion of social justice. Moreover, the administration also pointed to the CARP as another institutionalized means to address poverty and social development through profit sharing, wealth redistribution, and labor administration. Meanwhile, the Ramos administration pushed forward the Social Reform Agenda which instituted flagship programs for the poor provinces in the country and prioritized the basic needs of people before attending to other economic demands.\n\nAlthough Estrada's poverty alleviation platform dubbed “Erap Para sa Mahirap” seemed to be full of rhetoric and drama elements, there still seems to be this intent to actually address poverty and this acknowledgement that every administration has to at least heed the call. Estrada's poverty alleviation plan included the delivery of social development services, the removal of policy impediments to effective resource allocation, and the enactment of Lingap Para sa Mahirap where the 100 poorest families were identified and given packages of assistance. Arroyo would then follow this up with KALAHI (Kapit-Bisig Laban sa Kahirapan) and programs for asset reform, provision of human development services, creation of employment, and social protection, among others.\n\nThough development and poverty alleviation cannot be acquired by an economy instantly, it would be honorable even just to try to show everyone that honest efforts are actually being exerted. The conceptualization, development, and enactment of policies are definitely not enough. Belief in the spirit of creative entrepreneurship and the devotion of policymakers to the people and stakeholders that they govern are at least equally, if not more important, for poverty alleviation to actually come to fruition.\n\nThe informal economy or the informal sector, also referred to by the names “black market” and “underground market,” consists of entrepreneurs who engage in economic activities that fail to fulfill certain legal requirements even though their objectives are actually lawful. Perhaps the talipapa and sidewalk vendors can be good examples of this sector of the economy. Other examples could include the street children who sell sampaguita, or even people who engage in criminal acts affecting the economy, such as human trafficking, drug trafficking, and theft. The other more popular forms of informality can perhaps be the informal financial sector (loan sharks) and the proliferation of informal settlements, or squatters’ areas. People normally dive into the informal sector due to poverty where they are somehow forced to produce or create income, or even due to the feeling that they are not being treated fairly by economic institutions. People who engage in informal activities somehow believe that informal economic activity is an expression of freedom from all the binding policies of the economy, and it is only then when they finally feel the true essence of being in a free market economy.\n\nInformal economic activity accounts for between 25 and 40 percent of Gross National Income. Meaning, some informal income is not really accounted for in the aggregate production figures. Informal economic activity really has to be addressed, and perhaps one of the best ways to do so is to study the roots of such activity and phenomenon, namely the loopholes of the legal system and mercantilist thought. In the legal system, there always seems to be injustice and in such a system, there would always be favored entities and forgotten entities. The current legal system also appears to be full of loopholes which give rise to many illegitimate opportunity structures, giving people some chance to actually get around the legal system. Thus, it would definitely be important to constitute reforms in the legal system to ensure fair play in the economy. If the atmosphere of fair play can be fostered and taken care of, then it is likely that informal players would go back to the formal economy.\n\nThe global economic crisis of 2008 pulled countries around the globe into a recession. Following the Asian economic crisis in 1997, the 2008 crisis imposed new challenges to the Philippines as a developing country. The following are expositions of the macroeconomic impacts of the crisis on the Philippines, its implications in the prevalent poverty scenario, and policies and programs undertaken by the government in response to the crisis.\n\nThe 2008 global economic crisis started upon the bursting of the United States housing bubble, which was followed by bankruptcies, bailouts, foreclosures, and takeovers of financial institutions by national governments. During a period of housing and credit booms, banks encouraged lending to home owners by a considerably high amount without appropriate level of transparency and financial supervision. As interest rates rose in mid-2007, housing prices dropped extensively, and all institutions that borrowed and invested found themselves suffering significant losses. Financial institutions, insurance companies, and investment houses either declared bankruptcy or had to be rescued financially. Economies worldwide slowed during this period and entered recession.\n\nThe crisis, initially financial in nature, took on a full-blown economic and global scale affecting every country, both industrialized and developing.\n\nThe Philippines has long had long-term structural problems that interfere with sustainable economic development. The country has been dominated by a sequence of growth spurts, brief and mediocre, followed by sharp to very-sharp, severe, and extended downturns—a cycle that came to be known as the boom-bust cycle. As such, economic growth record of the country has been disappointing in comparison with its East Asian counterparts in terms of per capita GDP. In addition, in 2007, an absolute poverty incidence of 13.2 percent—higher than Indonesia’s 7.7 and Vietnam’s 8.4 percent—was recorded, illustrating the unequal distribution of wealth that inhibits growth and development for the Philippines.\n\nThe Philippines was affected by the crisis in a decline in three aspects: exports, remittances from overseas Filipino workers, and foreign direct investments. Heavily dependent on electronic and semiconductor exports, the Philippines saw a downward trend in its export earnings as countries in demand of these exports entered recession. The recession also put at risk the jobs in the developed countries which include those where migrant workers are employed. Consequently, OFW remittances decreased and grew a meagre 3.3% in October 2008. Foreign direct investments (FDI) declined because of investors losing confidence in the financial market. Lower FDIs mean slower economic growth.\n\nThe freeze in liquidity in US and European financial markets reversed capital flows to developing countries and induced a rise in the price of risk which entailed a drop in equity prices and exchange rate volatility. However, following the effects of an increase in the foreign currency government bond spread, the Philippine stock market was actually one of the least affected by the crisis with the main index of the stock market dropping only by 24 percent, a relatively low percentage change in comparison to those of other countries across Asia. Similarly, from the period between July 2008 and January 2009, the peso depreciated only by 3 percent, meaning that the peso was one of the currencies least affected by the crisis. This minimal effect on the stock market and the Philippine peso can be attributed to the recovery of asset prices across the Asia-Pacific region in early 2009 as foreign portfolio investments surged.\n\nFinancially, the banking system in the Philippines was relatively stable, because of reforms that were put in place since Asian financial crisis in 1997. Maintenance of high levels of loan to deposit ratios together with the decline of the ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans kept profitability of local banking generally high despite the crisis. To the country's fortune, no meltdowns occurred as during the previous 1997 Asian crisis.\n\nDeclines in the growth rate of personal consumption and expenditures and fixed investment occurred in 2008. Personal consumption expenditure, the largest contributor to GDP growth, showed a downward trend from a sharp drop from 5.8 percent in 2007 to 4.7 percent in 2008, and 3.7 percent in 2009. GDP growth during the fourth quarter of 2008 and first quarter of 2009 fell to 1.7 percent, a staggering fall from a 5.7 percent average for the three previous years. Furthermore, a contraction of 29.2 percent occurred in the manufacturing sector involving electricity, gas, water, trade and finance services. The service sector also turned down as growth in the fourth quarter and first quarters of 2008 and 2009, respectively, was a meagre growth of 2.1 percent, a far contrast from the 6.7 percent average from the previous three years. However, the Philippines generally endured the smallest declines in comparison with other East Asian countries. For instance, OFW remittances, though at a slower pace, still grew in the first half of 2009.\n\nTo counter adverse effects of the crisis, the Philippine government felt the need to increase its expenditures. Apart from government expenditure, of primary concern was the weak revenues generated by the government with the fiscal deficit reaching P111.8 billion in the first quarter of 2009 as compared to P25.8 billion in the same period of the previous year. Despite suffering the least in terms of the stock exchange and financial markets among East Asian countries, the Philippines lagged in tax receipts in comparison to other nations. Meanwhile, private sector flows in the external account declined and led to a net outflow of $708 million in 2009, a sharp turning away from a net inflow of $507 million in 2008. This eventually led to a fall in stock prices and depreciation of the peso.\n\nAn increasing number of Filipino workers became frustrated due to unemployment and low standards of living in the country. Thousands of Filipinos left the country every day to seize better income opportunities. Moreover, around five million Filipino children were unable to go to school and are forced to work on the streets or in other various workplaces where they could find some food.\n\nThe country was having sound economic indicators before the 2008 economic crisis. Average income per capita was increasing while poverty incidence showed a downward trend. Average income per capita rose by 2% in 2007 and 2008, whereas poverty incidence dropped from 33.0% in 2006 to 31.8% in 2007 and 28.1% in 2008. Output growth plunged in 2009, causing real mean income to fall by 2.1%, resulting in an upward pressure on poverty incidence (which grew by 1.6%). Most hit were households with associations to industry resulting in the average income to drop to levels below that of 2007. Similarly, wage and salary workers were hit significantly. Surprisingly, the poorest 20% did not suffer the same fate they suffered in crises past. The global economic crisis put a halt on the highly promising growth trend of the Philippine economy and forced 2 million Filipinos into poverty.\n\ni. Finances\n\nClose to 22% of the population reduced their spending, 11% used their existing savings for consumption, 5% pawned assets, 2% sold assets, 36% borrowed money and 5% defaulted on debts.\n\nii. Education\n\nTo reduce spending, households had to risk the quality of education of their children. Some children were transferred from private to public schools, while some were withdrawn from school. Moreover, parents reduced the allowance of the students, and resorted to secondhand uniforms, shoes and books.\n\niii. Health\n\nCoping strategies may have negative effects on their long-term health as these affected households commonly resort to self-medication, or shift to seeing doctors in government health centers and hospital. Many households in the urban sector shifted to generic drugs while rural households tended to use herbal medicines, such as \"sambong\" for colds and kidney stones.\n\niv. Entertainment\n\nSome people copied by watching popular \"action films\" such as \"Banta ng kahapon\" (1977).\n\nThe Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP) was implemented during the Ramos Administration and later on continued by the following administrations to help reduce poverty in the country and improve on the economic welfare of the Filipinos. The Ramos Administration (1993–1998) targeted to reduce poverty from 39.2% in 1991 to about 30% by 1998. The Estrada Administration (1999–2004) then targeted to reduce poverty incidence from 32% in 1997 to 25-28% by 2004, while the Arroyo government targeted to reduce poverty to 17% by creating 10 million jobs but this promise was not fulfilled by the administration.\n\nPresident Benigno Aquino III planned to expand the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) program from 1 to 2.3 million households, and several long term investments in education and healthcare. Also, in September 2010, Aquino met with US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, during the signing of the $434-million Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) grant in New York. The MCC grant would fund infrastructure and rural development programs in the Philippines to reduce poverty and spur economic growth.\n\nTo respond to the financial crisis, the Philippine government, through the Department of Finance and National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), crafted a PhP 330-billion fiscal package, formally known as the Economic Resiliency Plan (ERP). The ERP was geared towards the stimulation of the economy through tax cuts, increased government spending, and public-private sector projects that could also prepare the country for the eventual upturn of the global economy.\n\nThe implementation of ERP was spearheaded by NEDA with the following specific aims:\n\n\nThe Network of East Asian Think Tanks proposed the establishment of the Asia Investment Infrastructure Fund (AIIF) to prioritize the funding of infrastructure projects in the region to support suffering industries. The AIIF, as well as multilateral institutions (especially the Asian Development Bank), also promotes greater domestic demand and intra-regional trade to offset the decline in exports to industrialized countries and narrow the development gap in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28500463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28500463", "title": "Employment discrimination law in the European Union", "text": "Employment discrimination law in the European Union\n\nEmployment discrimination law in the European Union comprises two directives. The directives were agreed by all EU member states in 2000. Each member state was then obliged to incorporate these new laws into their national legislation. The European Parliament Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is responsible for oversight.\n\nThe Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, entered into force in 1999, granted the European Union some powers to combat discrimination on the basis of:\n\nThe Employment Equality Framework Directive establishes a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. It aims to protects everyone in the EU from discrimination based on age, disability, sexual orientation and religion or belief in the workplace.\n\nThe Racial Equality Directive prohibits discrimination on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin in the workplace as well as in other areas of life such as education, social security, healthcare and access to goods and services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37339302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339302", "title": "Eupatorian Kenassas", "text": "Eupatorian Kenassas\n\nThe Eupatorian Kenassas is the temple complex of Crimean Karaites (karaev) located in Eupatoria, Crimea. It covers an area of 0.25 hectares and consists of large and small kenesa buildings (meetinghouses), building religious schools (Midrash), charity dining, household courtyards and multiple courtyards (grape, marble, waiting for the prayer Ritual, Memorial). The kenesa has been a centre of the religious life of the Karaites of Yevpatoria since 1837.\n"}
{"id": "17614486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17614486", "title": "Football in Monaco", "text": "Football in Monaco\n\nFootball is one of the leading sports in the small Principality of Monaco, enjoying large popularity alongside motor racing, yachting, and tennis. It is governed by the Monegasque Football Federation.\n\nMonaco is one of two sovereign European states (along with the Vatican City) that is not a UEFA member and doesn't have a national team competing in UEFA Euro qualifiers or FIFA World Cup qualifiers. The cause of this may be the historically close ties to France, but this is also true of Andorra, while they have their own separate team. It may be purely because Monaco have never applied to join UEFA, despite fulfilling all the required criteria. In recent years, there has reportedly been more interest in achieving this status. \n\nThe Monaco national team instead tend to play small-scale matches against non-FIFA members, usually across the border in Cap-d'Ail.\n\nDomestic football within the principality is governed by the Monegasque Football Federation, founded in 2000.\n\nFootball in Monaco is dominated by AS Monaco, who were founded in 1919 and play in the French Ligue 1, which they have won on seven occasions, also winning five French Cups in the process. The club have traditionally been heavily backed by the monarchy, with large financial support which helps the club compete with teams from much larger cities. The club plays at the Stade Louis II, where average attendances have sometimes been as low as 5,000 demonstrating the need for financial aid to compete with teams who draw crowds several times that figure. \n\nIn 2004, they were runners-up in the UEFA Champions League to FC Porto, widely regarded as the most prestigious club tournament in world-wide football. Their success and the large financial subsidy they receive has caused occasional bad feelings; it has been proposed, often by rival clubs in the Ligue 1, that AS Monaco should not be allowed to qualify for European competition from the French League, thereby taking a place allocated for a French team, with some even suggesting they should be expelled from French football altogether. \n\nOne compromise that has been suggested is that AS Monaco continue to play in the French League system, but take part in a yearly qualifying tournament to earn the right to represent Monaco in European competition, as football teams in Canada do by the Canadian Championship. This solution would require the Principality to gain full or associate member status of UEFA first.\n\nDespite the small size of the country, Monaco still has many teams, and they compete yearly in different competitions, which are:\n\nPreviously Monaco hosted the UEFA Super Cup between the winners of the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Cup. UEFA announced that from 2013 onwards, various stadiums will be used for the Super Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "2205663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2205663", "title": "Güssing District", "text": "Güssing District\n\nThe Bezirk Güssing () is an administrative district (\"Bezirk\") in the federal state of Burgenland, Austria, bordering on Vas Megye (County) Hungary, of which it had been a part prior to 1921.\n\nArea of the district is 486.71 km², with a population of 26,636 (2012), and population density 55 persons per km². Administrative center of the district is Güssing.\n\nThe district consists of the below municipalities and towns, the former Hungarian names of some of which are given in parentheses:\n"}
{"id": "21788474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21788474", "title": "Halay (song)", "text": "Halay (song)\n\n\"Halay\" was the Turkish entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1984, performed in Turkish by Beş Yıl Önce, On Yıl Sonra.\n\nThe song was performed fifteenth on the night (following Germany's Mary Roos with \"Aufrecht geh'n\" and preceding Finland's Kirka with \"Hengaillaan\"). At the close of voting, it had received 37 points, placing 12th in a field of 19.\n\nThe song is about Halay (typical dance in Turkey and Middle East), the band sings that they dance and sing with much love and don't look upon foreigners as strangers.\n\nIt was succeeded as Turkish representative in the 1985 Contest by MFÖ singing \"Aşık oldum (Didai didai dai)\". However, this song was not quite as well received.\n\nThis article is based on information from http://www.diggiloo.net/?1984tr (retrieved at March 3, 2009\n\n"}
{"id": "7229954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7229954", "title": "Hello from Mars", "text": "Hello from Mars\n\n\"Hello From Mars\" was the Latvian entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2003, performed in English by F.L.Y.\n\nThe lyrics are notably obscure, however the song appears to be a love song in which a pair of lovers reminisce about the way in which they met. The exact timing of this meeting appears to change throughout the song, with the chorus being in present or future tense (\"Cause this is gonna be/The day that we will meet\"), while the opening lines talk about \"That day you saw me cry\", implying a past tense situation. The song takes its title from the last lines of the chorus - \"When heaven comes so down to earth/To say hello from Mars\".\n\nThe song was performed twenty-first on the night, following Poland's Ich Troje with \"Keine Grenzen-Żadnych granic\" and preceding Belgium's Urban Trad with \"Sanomi\". At the close of voting, it had received 5 points (all from Estonia), placing 24th in a field of 26. Thus requiring Latvia to qualify from the semi-final at their next Contest appearance.\n\nSomewhat perversely, the combination of unusual lyrics and a poor result for the host country has made the song relatively well-known among Contest fans.\n\nIt was succeeded as Latvian representative at the 2004 Contest by Fomins & Kleins with \"Dziesma par laimi\".\n"}
{"id": "35005294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35005294", "title": "Ibo, o sangue do silêncio", "text": "Ibo, o sangue do silêncio\n\nIbo, o sangue do silêncio is a Mozambican 1981 short documentary film.\n\nTo the North of the country, the Island of Ibo was used as the jail where the Portuguese political police tortured without remorse the Mozambique nationalists. This documentary reflects that jail, the consequences of colonization and the Resistance.\n"}
{"id": "21375530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21375530", "title": "International Federation of Festival Organizations", "text": "International Federation of Festival Organizations\n\nFederation Internationale des Organisations de Festivals (FIDOF, \"International Federation of Festival Organizations\") was an organization to hold and organize festivals worldwide. It was established in 1966 and headquartered in Split, Yugoslavia with President professor Armando Moreno. Later it was headquartered in California, United States, where it was registered as a Section 501(c) non-profit organization. It was the member of the U.S. National Music Council. The organization ceased to exist in 2005 after the death of its founder.\n\nThe main role of FIDOF was to provide coordination of festivals and other cultural events through arranging their dates and publicizing them through the International English Monthly Bulletins, which were distributed among the members.\n\nFIDOF had 220 individual members and more than 1,000 affiliated organizations. It was also associated with 320 festivals held in 72 countries. \n\n"}
{"id": "3163342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3163342", "title": "Islam in Latvia", "text": "Islam in Latvia\n\nThe presence of Muslims in Latvia was first recorded in the early 19th century. The Muslims had mainly Tatar and Turkic backgrounds, and most had been brought to Latvia against their will. These included Turkish prisoners of war from the Crimean War and the Russo-Turkish War of 1877. After the Russo-Turkish War almost one hundred Turkish prisoners were brought to the town of Cēsis, where nearly 30 perished owing to harsh conditions of weather, under no suitable location for warmth and no protection for cold.\n\nThe total Muslim population in Latvia is estimated at about 2,000 by Pew Forum. Virtually all Muslims in Latvia are Sunni. There is also an active presence of Ahmadi.\n\nIn 1902, a Muslim congregation was officially established and recognized by the government. The community elected Ibrahim Davidof as its leader and a prayer hall was inaugurated. The majority of Muslims residing in Latvia in the early part of the 20th century were conscripted in the Russian army. After release from service, most would leave for Moscow. \n\nDuring the creation of the Soviet Union and amid civil war, many refugees entered Latvia, including Muslims of various ethnicities. They were however known to Latvians as Turks. In 1928, Husnetdinov, a Turkic priest, was elected leader of Riga Muslim community. He held that post until 1940.\n\n"}
{"id": "23447084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23447084", "title": "Keltainen Pörssi", "text": "Keltainen Pörssi\n\nKeltainen Pörssi (Finnish for \"the yellow stock market\") was Finland's most popular small ads magazine. The magazine was established in 1986 and is part of Sanoma. Ilta-Sanomat Oy was the publisher of the magazine of which the headquarters was in Helsinki.\n\nIt was available both as a print edition published twice per week and a free online edition, and consisted entirely of small ads by private citizens. These ads were divided into categories for easy browsing. Placing an ad was free of charge, but extra stand-out features and photographs costed money.\n\n\"Keltainen Pörssi\" had several supplements, including \"Autot\".\n\nIn 2016 the publication was wound down and visits to the web address directed users to the Huuto.net site, this is a online \"auction\" and \"buy it now\" site similar to eBay that caters for the Finnish market. Keltainen Pörssi was owned by the same media group with Huuto.net and Ilta-Sanomat.\n\nTori.fi\n"}
{"id": "1964993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1964993", "title": "Korea General Chemicals Trading", "text": "Korea General Chemicals Trading\n\nKorea General Chemicals Trading Corporation is a North Korean chemical conglomerate. Its headquarters are in Pyongyang. Including plastic, it produces a wide variety of chemicals for domestic commercial and industrial use. The company also imports chemicals into North Korea.\n\nProducts of Korea General Chemicals include liquified gas, urea fertilizer, ammonium nitrate fertilizer, explosives, blasting fuses, percussion caps, potassium nitrate, sodium nitrate, rubber, rubber asbestos packing materials, aluminum silicon, plastics, alcohols, vinyls, inks, carbides, dyes, chrome yellow, potassium alum and aluminium hydroxide.\n\nThe company imports industrial chemical stock including caustic soda, potassium carbonate, normal hexane, chromic anhydride, zinc dusting powder, titanium white, other pigments, glycerine, seamless steel pipes, high alumina cement, nickel, silver, and various ingredients for the production of plastic.\n\n"}
{"id": "32384687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32384687", "title": "Liechtenstein cuisine", "text": "Liechtenstein cuisine\n\nLiechtensteiner cuisine is the cuisine of Liechtenstein. The cuisine is diverse and has been influenced by the cuisine of nearby countries, particularly Switzerland and Austria, and is also influenced by Central European cuisine. Cheeses and soups are integral parts of Liechtensteiner cuisine. Milk products are also commonplace in the country's cuisine, due to an expansive dairy industry. Common vegetables include greens, potatoes and cabbage. Widely consumed meats include beef, chicken and pork. The consumption of three meals a day is commonplace, and meals are often formal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453000", "title": "List of direct broadcast satellite providers", "text": "List of direct broadcast satellite providers\n\nThis is a list of direct-broadcast satellite providers, operating around the world.\n\n\n\n\nStartimes, azam TV, dstv, canal+\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4144541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4144541", "title": "Lonnie Thompson", "text": "Lonnie Thompson\n\nLonnie Thompson (born July 1, 1948), is an American paleoclimatologist and Distinguished University Professor in the School of Earth Sciences at The Ohio State University. He has achieved global recognition for his drilling and analysis of ice cores from mountain glaciers and ice caps in the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. He and his wife, Ellen Mosley-Thompson, run the ice core paleoclimatology research group at the Byrd Polar Research Center.\n\nLonnie Thompson (Lanyard) was born July 1, 1948 in Gassaway, West Virginia. He was raised on a farm near Gassaway, W.Va. He obtained his undergraduate degree from Marshall University, where he majored in geology. He subsequently attended The Ohio State University where he received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in geology. In the 1970s, he was the first scientist \"to retrieve ice samples from a remote tropical ice cap, such as the Quelccaya ice cap in the Andes of Peru, and analyze them for ancient climate signals.\" He created the ice core research program at Ohio State while still a graduate student there. In regards to the dedication required to attain this ice, one author writes:\n\nFor comparison, the Everest lower base camp is at 5,380 m (17,700 ft) and the upper base camp is at 6,500 m (21,300 ft). (The mountain itself is 8,848 m (29,029 ft).) \"Rolling Stone\" magazine says that there is no person in the world who has spent more time above 18,000 feet than Lonnie Thompson.\n\nHis observations of glacier retreat (1970s–2000s) \"confirm that glaciers around the world are melting and provide clear evidence that the warming of the last 50 years is now outside the range of climate variability for several millennia, if not longer.\" In 2001, he predicted that the famed snows of Africa’s Mount Kilimanjaro would melt within the next 20 years, a victim of climate change across the tropics. Return expeditions to the mountain have shown that changes in the mountain’s ice fields may signal an even quicker melting of its snow fields, which Thompson documented had existed for thousands of years. Thompson and his wife both served as advisers for the Academy Award-winning 2006 documentary \"An Inconvenient Truth\", by Al Gore, Jr., and some of their work was referenced in the movie.\n\nOn May 1, 2012, he underwent a successful heart transplant.\n\n\nLonnie Thompson has been awarded 53 research grants from the NSF, NASA, NOAA and NGS and has published 165 papers. An abbreviated list of expeditions, grants, and publications can be found in his Ohio State curriculum vitae (PDF).\n\nSome notable publications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "53101094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53101094", "title": "MeDirect Bank Malta", "text": "MeDirect Bank Malta\n\nMeDirect Bank Malta is a Maltese bank and financial services company with headquarters in Sliema. Founded in 2004 as Mediterranean Bank, it was licensed by the Malta Financial Services Authority in 2005.\n\nMediterranean Bank however struggled to fully maximise the potential of its business model, which was that of an offshore bank, especially in view of Malta joining the European Union. Four years later, in 2009, it was acquired by AnaCap Financial Partners in a bid to revitalise it. The bank mostly operates in the corporate sector, as well as Wealth Management, Investment, and Savings. The bank has branches all over Malta, including Gozo.\n\nIn 2010, the bank was offering fixed term deposit interest rates of 4.5%. MeDirect Bank Malta purchased Volksbank Malta in 2014, and merged operations. In 2015, Charts Investment Management Service Ltd was also acquired.\n\nMeanwhile, in 2013, the MeDirect Bank Malta opened a branch in Brussels, Belgium, branded as MeDirect. In June 2015, MeDirect received a Belgian banking license of the National Bank of Belgium. This means that the savings products are covered by the Belgian guarantee scheme. This became recognised by Belgian authorities by 2015.\n\nAs part of its Corporate Social Responsibility, MeDirect Bank Malta sponsors the Malta Rugby Union National Cup, which is in fact known as the Mediterranean Bank Cup. This agreement goes way back to 2010 when the bank first sponsored the endeavours of the Malta Rugby Football Union.\n\nAs part of its consolidation strategy, Mediterranean Bank underwent a rebranding exercise in November 2017, adopting the name of MeDirect Bank (Malta). This coincided with the moving of Head Office, Operations and Support Services into new premises at Tigné Point in Sliema.\n"}
{"id": "50724564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50724564", "title": "Michelle Rogan-Finnemore", "text": "Michelle Rogan-Finnemore\n\nMichelle Rogan-Finnemore is the Executive Secretary of the Council of Managers of National Antarctic Programmes (COMNAP) which is the international association which brings together the National Antarctic Programs that make up its members. She is also the namesake of Finnemore Peak.\n\nRogan-Finnemore completed her BSc (Hons) in Geology from the University of Pittsburgh. She then completed a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) and a Master of Laws (LLM) both from the University of Canterbury, NZ. The title of her Masters thesis was “The legal implications of bioprospecting in the Antarctic region.”\n\nRogan-Finnemore was the Manager of Gateway Antarctica, the center for Antarctic Studies and Research, (University of Canterbury) before taking on role of Executive Secretary of COMNAP on July 1, 2009 at which point the COMNAP Secretariat moved to Gateway Antarctica at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand.\n\nRogan-Finnemore has twice wintered in Antarctica with the U.S.A. Antarctic Program, firstly at the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station in 1990 as the team leader for geodesy and seismology observations for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) and secondly at McMurdo Station in 1992. During the second season Rogan-Finnemore conducted ionospheric studies and satellite observations for the University of Texas. She has given talks about being a woman in Antarctica, including at the 2014 IceFest Antarctic Festival in Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\nIn recognition of her Antarctic service, Rogan-Finnmore was awarded the US Antarctic Service Medal twice in both 1990 and 1992. Finnemore Peak was named after her in 2005 by the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names.\n"}
{"id": "12186348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12186348", "title": "Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan", "text": "Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan\n\nThe Microfinance Investment Support Facility for Afghanistan (MISFA) was set up in 2003 at the invitation of the Afghan government to streamline collection of donor money and avoid pitfalls arising from conflicting donor interests that had been seen in other post-conflict situations. It was established as a vehicle through which the Afghan government and international donors could channel technical assistance and funding to build Afghanistan’s microfinance sector.\n\nIn March 2006, MISFA registered as a limited liability, non-profit company whose sole shareholder is the Ministry of Finance of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. MISFA Ltd is an independent apex organization with a number of implementing partners on the ground. In most cases, MISFA functions as either the exclusive or primary provider of funds to its partners. The legal status of MFIs has been transformed from NGOs to that of non-profit companies registered with the Afghanistan Investment Support Agency (AISA), as permanent institutions under the law of Afghanistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "37372734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37372734", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Slovakia)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Slovakia)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of the Slovak Republic () is a government ministry of Slovakia. Its headquarters are in Bratislava.\n\n"}
{"id": "10895144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10895144", "title": "Naters Brass Quintet", "text": "Naters Brass Quintet\n\nThe Naters Brass Quintet (NBQ) was a small group formed in 1990, and is known for its modern entertainment music. In 1992, the NBQ won the vice-champion title at the Swiss Ensemble and Soloist Competition (SSEW) in Interlaken, where it also played at the Gala concert. The group cooperated with lesser-known musicians such as Anselmo Loretan, Eduard Zurwerra and Peter Warlen. Stefan Imboden acted as their trainer for many years, which led to the success of the NBQ.\n\n"}
{"id": "20411750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20411750", "title": "Norwegian Union of Railway Workers", "text": "Norwegian Union of Railway Workers\n\nThe Norwegian Union of Railway Workers (, NJF) is a trade union in Norway. It was formed on 20 November 1892, and mainly organizes workers in Norges Statsbaner—with the exception of locomotive drivers— and the Norwegian National Rail Administration, including related companies such as BaneTele, Nettbuss, Nettlast, Malmtrafik, MiTrans, Mantena, Trafikkservice, CargoNet, Baneservice, Arrive, Ofotbanen AS, NSB Gjøvikbanen and Flytoget.\n\nIt is affiliated with the Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions (LO), and is a member of the International Transport Workers' Federation.\n\nFormer leaders include Ludvik Buland and John Marius Trana.\n\n"}
{"id": "16278602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278602", "title": "Outline of Denmark", "text": "Outline of Denmark\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview, and topical guide to Denmark.\n\nDenmark – country located in Scandinavia of Northern Europe. It is the southernmost of the Nordic countries. The mainland is bordered to the south by Germany; Denmark is southwest of Sweden and south of Norway. Denmark borders both the Baltic and the North Sea. The country consists of a large peninsula, Jutland (Jylland) and many islands, most notably Zealand (Sjælland), Funen (Fyn), Lolland, Falster and Bornholm as well as hundreds of minor islands often referred to as the Danish Archipelago. Denmark has long controlled the approach to the Baltic Sea (in a concept known as \"dominium maris baltici\"), and these waters are also known as the Danish straits.\n\n\nGeography of Denmark\n\n\n\nAdministrative divisions of Denmark\n\nRegions of Denmark\n\nMunicipalities of Denmark\n\nDemographics of Denmark\n\nPolitics of Denmark\n\n\n\nCourts of Denmark\n\nForeign relations of Denmark\n\nDenmark is a member of:\n\nLaw of Denmark\n\nDanish Defence\n\nLocal government in Denmark\n\nHistory of Denmark\n\nCulture of Denmark\n\n\nSports in Denmark\n\nEconomy of Denmark\n\nEducation in Denmark\n\nDenmark\n\n"}
{"id": "2897267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2897267", "title": "Parochial Union of Independents Group", "text": "Parochial Union of Independents Group\n\nThe Parochial Union of Independents Group (, GUPI) is a local progressive political party in Ordino, Andorra.\n\nIn the local elections in 2003 GUPI won two of the ten seats in Ordino. For the 2005 parliamentary elections the party was part of an alliance with the Social Democratic Party and Democratic Renewal named L'Alternativa. The alliance won twelve seats.\n\nGUPI retained its alliance with the Social Democratic Party for the 2009 elections, with the coalition emerging victorious after winning 14 of the 28 seats.\n"}
{"id": "8812072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8812072", "title": "Pauchi Kamuy", "text": "Pauchi Kamuy\n\nPauchi Kamuy is the Ainu \"kamuy\" (\"god\") of insanity. \n\nIn Ainu mythology, Pauchi Kamuy is an evil spirit born from the Willow-Soul River in Pikun Kando (\"High Heaven\"). It descended to earth to plague humanity with insanity, stomach ailments, food poisoning, seizures, and frenzied dancing. Epidemics of the latter were said to have wiped out several villages in the late 19th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "46399018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46399018", "title": "Proletarian internationalism", "text": "Proletarian internationalism\n\nProletarian internationalism, sometimes referred to as international socialism, is the perception of all communist revolutions as being part of a single global class struggle rather than separate localized events. It is based on the theory that capitalism is a world-system and therefore the working classes of all nations must act in concert if they are to replace it with communism. Proponents of proletarian internationalism often argued that the objectives of a given revolution should be global rather than local in scope—for example, triggering or perpetuating revolutions elsewhere.\n\nProletarian internationalism is closely linked to goals of world revolution, to be achieved through successive or simultaneous communist revolutions in all nations. According to Marxist theory, successful proletarian internationalism should lead to world communism and eventually stateless communism. The notion was strongly embraced by the first communist party, the Communist League, as exercised through its slogan \"Proletarians of all countries, unite!\", later popularized as \"Workers of the world, unite!\" in English literature.\n\nProletarian internationalism was originally embraced by the Bolshevik Party during its seizure of power in the Russian Revolution. After the formation of the Soviet Union, Marxist proponents of internationalism suggested that country could be used as a \"homeland of communism\" from which revolution could be spread around the globe. Though world revolution continued to figure prominently in Soviet rhetoric for decades, it no longer superseded domestic concerns on the government's agenda, especially after the ascension of Joseph Stalin. Despite this, the Soviet Union continued to foster international ties with communist and left-wing parties and governments around the world. It played a fundamental role in the establisment of several socialist states in Eastern Europe after World War II and backed the creation of others in Asia, Latin America and Africa. The Soviets also funded dozens of insurgencies being waged against non-communist governments by leftist guerrilla movements worldwide. A few other states later exercised their own commitments to the cause of world revolution—for instance, Cuba frequently dispatched internationalist military missions abroad to defend communist interests in Africa and the Caribbean.\n\nProletarian internationalism is summed up in the slogan coined by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, \"Workers of all countries, unite!\", the last line of \"The Communist Manifesto\", published in 1848. However, Marx and Engels' approach to the national question was also shaped by tactical considerations in their pursuit of a long-term revolutionary strategy. In 1848, the proletariat was a small minority in all but a handful of countries. Political and economic conditions needed to ripen in order to advance the possibility of proletarian revolution.\n\nFor instance, Marx and Engels supported the emergence of an independent and democratic Poland, which at the time was divided between Germany, Russia and Austria-Hungary. Rosa Luxemburg's biographer Peter Nettl writes: \"In general, Marx and Engels' conception of the national-geographical rearrangement of Europe was based on four criteria: the development of progress, the creation of large-scale economic units, the weighting of approval and disapproval in accordance with revolutionary possibilities, and their specific enmity to Russia\". Russia was seen as the heartland of European reaction at the time.\n\nThe trade unionists who formed the International Workingmen's Association (IWA), sometimes called the First International, recognised that the working class was an international class which had to link its struggle on an international scale. By joining together across national borders, the workers would gain greater bargaining power and political influence.\n\nFounded in 1864, the IWA was the first mass movement with a specifically international focus. At its peak, the IWA had 5 million members according to police reports from the various countries in which it had a significant presence. Repression in Europe and internal divisions between the anarchist and Marxist currents led eventually to its dissolution in 1876. Shortly thereafter, the Marxist and revolutionary socialist tendencies continued the internationalist strategy of the IWA through the successor organisation of the Second International, though without the inclusion of the anarchist and anarcho-syndicalist movements.\n\nProletarian internationalism was perhaps best expressed in the resolution sponsored by Vladimir Lenin and Rosa Luxemburg at the Seventh Congress of the Second International at Stuttgart in 1907 which asserted:\nWars between capitalist states are, as a rule, the outcome of their competition on the world market, for each state seeks not only to secure its existing markets, but also to conquer new ones. In this, the subjugation of foreign peoples and countries plays a prominent role. These wars result furthermore from the incessant race for armaments by militarism, one of the chief instruments of bourgeois class rule and of the economic and political subjugation of the working class.\nWars are favored by the national prejudices which are systematically cultivated among civilized peoples in the interest of the ruling classes for the purpose of distracting the proletarian masses from their own class tasks as well as from their duties of international solidarity.\nWars, therefore, are part of the very nature of capitalism; they will cease only when the capitalist system is abolished or when the enormous sacrifices in men and money required by the advance in military technique and the indignation called forth by armaments, drive the peoples to abolish this system.\n\nThe resolution concluded:\nIf a war threatens to break out, it is the duty of the working classes and their parliamentary representatives in the countries involved, supported by the coordinating activity of the International Socialist Bureau, to exert every effort in order to prevent the outbreak of war by the means they consider most effective, which naturally vary according to the sharpening of the class struggle and the sharpening of the general political situation.\nIn case war should break out anyway, it is their duty to intervene in favor of its speedy termination and with all their powers to utilize the economic and political crisis created by the war to rouse the masses and thereby to hasten the downfall of capitalist class rule.\n\nIn fact, Luxemburg and Lenin had very different interpretations of the national question. Lenin and the Bolsheviks opposed imperialism and chauvinism by advocating a policy of national self-determination, including the right of oppressed nations to secede from Russia. They believed this would help to create the conditions for unity between the workers in both oppressing and oppressed nations. Specifically, Lenin claimed: \"The bourgeois nationalism of any oppressed nation has a general democratic content that is directed against oppression and it is this content that we unconditionally support\". By contrast, Luxemburg broke with the mainstream Polish Socialist Party in 1893 on the national question.\n\nLuxemburg argued that the nature of Russia had changed since Marx’s day as Russia was now fast developing as a major capitalist nation while the Polish bourgeoisie now had its interests linked to Russian capitalism. This had opened the possibility of a class alliance between the Polish and Russian working class.\n\nThe leading party of the Second International, the Social Democratic Party of Germany, voted overwhelmingly in support of Germany's entry into World War I by approving war credits on 4 August 1914. Many other member parties of the Second International followed suit by supporting national governments and the Second International was dissolved in 1916. Proletarian internationalists characterized the combination of social democracy and nationalism as social chauvinism.\n\nThe hopes of internationalists such as Lenin, Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht were dashed by the initial enthusiasm for war. Lenin tried to re-establish socialist unity against the war at the Zimmerwald Conference, but the majority of delegates took a pacifist rather than a revolutionary position.\n\nIn prison, Luxemburg deepened her analysis with \"The Junius Pamphlet\" of 1915. In this document, she specifically rejects the notion of oppressor and oppressed states: \"Imperialism is not the creation of one or any group of states. It is the product of a particular stage of ripeness in the world development of capital, an innately international condition, an indivisible whole, that is recognisable only in all its relations, and from which no nation can hold aloof at will\".\n\nProletarian internationalists now argued that the alliances of World War I had proved that socialism and nationalism were incompatible in the imperialist era, that the concept of national self-determination had become outdated and in particular that nationalism would prove to be an obstacle to proletarian unity. Anarcho-syndicalism was a further working class political current that characterised the war as imperialist on all sides, finding organisational expression in the Industrial Workers of the World.\n\nThe internationalist perspective influenced the revolutionary wave towards the end of World War II, notably with Russia's withdrawal from the conflict following the October Revolution and the revolt in Germany beginning in the naval ports of Kiel and Wilhelmshaven that brought the war to an end in November 1918. However, once this revolutionary wave had receded in the early 1920s, proletarian internationalism was no longer mainstream in working class politics.\n\nFollowing World War I, the international socialist movement was irreconcilably split into two hostile factions: on the one side, the social democrats, who broadly supported their national governments during the conflict; and on the other side Leninists and their allies who formed the new communist parties that were organised into the Third International, which was established in March 1919. During the Russian Civil War, Lenin and Leon Trotsky more firmly embraced the concept of national self-determination for tactical reasons. In the Third International, the national question became a major bone of contention between mainstream Leninists and \"left communists\". \n\nBy the time World War II broke out in 1939, only a few prominent communists such as the Italian Marxist Amadeo Bordiga and the Dutch council communist Anton Pannekoek remained opponents of Russia's embrace of national self-determination. Following the collapse of the Mussolini regime in Italy in 1943, Bordigists regrouped and founded the International Communist Party (PCInt). The first edition of the party organ, \"Prometeo\" (\"Prometheus\"), proclaimed: \"Workers! Against the slogan of a national war which arms Italian workers against English and German proletarians, oppose the slogan of the communist revolution, which unites the workers of the world against their common enemy — capitalism\". The PCInt took the view that Luxemburg, not Lenin, had been right on the national question.\n\nThere was a revival of interest in internationalist theory after World War II, when the extent of communist influence in Eastern Europe dramatically increased as a result of postwar military occupations by the Soviet Union. The Soviet government defined its relationship with Eastern European states it occupied such as Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary as based on the principles of proletarian internationalism. The theory was used to justify installing \"people's democracies\" in these states, which were to oversee the transition from fascism to communism. By the early 1960s, this thinking was considered obsolete as most of the \"people's democracies\" had established cohesive postwar communist states. Marxist ideologues believed that proletarian internationalism was no longer accurate to describe Soviet relations with the newly emerging Eastern European communist bloc, so a new term was coined, namely socialist internationalism. According to Soviet internationalist theory under Nikita Khrushchev, proletarian internationalism could only be evoked to describe solidarity between international peoples and parties, not governments. Inter-state relationships fell into a parallel category, socialist internationalism.\n\nSocialist internationalism was considerably less militant than proletarian internationalism as it was not focused on the spread of revolution, but diplomatic, political and to a lesser extent cultural solidarity between preexisting regimes. Under the principles of socialist internationalism, the Warsaw Pact governments were encouraged to pursue various forms of economic or military cooperation with each other and Moscow. At the Moscow International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties in June 1969, seventy-five communist parties from around the world formally defined and endorsed the theory of socialist internationalism. One of the key tenets of socialist internationalism as expressed during the conference was that the \"defense of socialism is the international duty of communists\", meaning communist governments should be obliged to assist each other militarily to defend their common interests against external aggression.\n\nKhrushchev's successor, Leonid Brezhnev, was an even more outspoken proponent of both proletarian and socialist internationalism. In 1976, Brezhnev declared that proletarian internationalism was neither dead nor obsolete and reaffirmed the Soviet Union's commitment to its core concepts of \"the solidarity of the working class, of communists of all countries in the struggle for common goals, the solidarity in the struggle of the peoples for national liberation and social progress, [and] voluntary cooperation of the fraternal parties with strict observance of the equality and independence of each\". Under Brezhnev, the Soviet and Warsaw Pact governments frequently evoked proletarian internationalism to fund leftist trade unions and guerrilla insurgencies around the globe. Foreign military interventions could also be justified as \"internationalist duty\" to defend or support other communist states during wartime. With Soviet financial or military backing, a considerable number of new communist governments succeeded in assuming power during the late 1960s and 1970s. The United States and its allies perceived this as an example of Soviet expansionism and this aspect of Brezhnev's foreign policy negatively affected diplomatic relations between the Soviet Union and the West.\n\nOutside of the Warsaw Pact, Cuba embraced its own aggressive theory of proletarian internationalism, which was primarily exercised through support for leftist revolutionary movements. One of the fundamental aspects of Cuban foreign policy between 1962 and 1990 was the \"rule of internationalism\", which dictated that Cuba must first and foremost support the cause of international revolution through whatever means are available to her. At the founding of the Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America in 1966, Cuban President Fidel Castro declared that \"for Cuban revolutionaries, the battleground against imperialism encompasses the entire world...the enemy is one and the same, the same one who attacks our shores and our territory, the same one who attacks everyone else. And so we say and proclaim that the revolutionary movement in every corner of the world can count on Cuban combat fighters\". By the mid 1980s, it was estimated that up to a quarter of Cuba's national military was deployed overseas, fighting with communist governments or factions in various civil conflicts. The Cuban military saw action against the United States while fighting on behalf of the Marxist New Jewel Movement in Grenada. It was also instrumental in installing a communist government in Angola and fighting several costly campaigns during that nation's civil war.\n\nSome political groupings such as the PCInt, the International Communist Current and the International Bureau for the Revolutionary Party (which includes the PCInt) follow the Luxemburgist and Bordigist interpretations of proletarian internationalism as do some libertarian communists.\n\nIn contrast, some socialists have pointed out that social realities such as local loyalties and cultural barriers militate against proletarian internationalism. For example, George Orwell believed that \"in all countries the poor are more national than the rich\". To this, Marxists might counter that while the rich may have historically had the awareness and education to recognize cross-national interest of class, the poor of those same nations likely have not had this advantage, making them more susceptible to what Marxists would describe as the false ideology of patriotism. Marxists assert that patriotism and nationalism serve precisely to obscure opposing class interests that would otherwise pose a threat to the ruling class order.\n\nMarxists would also point out that in times of intense revolutionary struggle (the most evident being the revolutionary periods of 1848–1498, 1917–1923 and 1968) internationalism within the proletariat can overtake petty nationalisms as intense class struggles break out in multiple nations at the same time and the workers of those nations discover that they have more in common with other workers than with their own bourgeoisie.\n\nOn the question of imperialism and national determination, proponents of Third-Worldism argue that workers in \"oppressor\" nations (such as the United States or Israel) must first support national liberation movements in \"oppressed\" nations (such as Afghanistan or Palestine) before there can be any basis for proletarian internationalism. For example, Tony Cliff, a leading figure of the British Socialist Workers Party, denied the possibility of solidarity between Palestinians and Israelis in the current Middle East situation, writing that \"Israel is not a colony suppressed by imperialism, but a settler’s citadel, a launching pad of imperialism. It is a tragedy that some of the very people who had been persecuted and massacred in such bestial fashion should themselves be driven into a chauvinistic, militaristic fervour, and become the blind tool of imperialism in subjugating the Arab masses\".\n\nTrotskyists argue that there must be a permanent revolution in Third World countries in which a bourgeoisie revolution will inevitably lead to a worker's revolution with an international scope. This can be seen in the October Revolution before the movement was stopped by Stalin, a proponent of socialism in one country. Because of this threat, the bourgeoisie in Third World countries will willingly subjugate themselves to national and capitalist interests in order to prevent a proletarian uprising.\n\nInternationalists would respond that capitalism has proved itself incapable of resolving the competing claims of different nationalisms and that the working class (of all countries) is oppressed by capitalism, not by other workers. Moreover, the global nature of capitalism and international finance make \"national liberation\" an impossibility. For internationalists, all national liberation movements, whatever their \"progressive\" gloss, are therefore obstacles to the communist goal of world revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6978899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6978899", "title": "R1 expressway (Slovakia)", "text": "R1 expressway (Slovakia)\n\nR1 is an expressway () in Slovakia. It starts near Trnava (D1) and ends in Ružomberok (D1) and it goes through or around Nitra, Hronský Beňadik, Žarnovica, Žiar nad Hronom (R2/R3), Zvolen and Banská Bystrica. \n\nFrom 225 km there are:\n\nThe former partial designation of this route was D65.\n\nCurrently (as of May 2013), continuous section between Trnava and bypass of Banská Bystrica is in operation. A linking section to Ružomberok and consequently back to motorway D1 has been planned since 2008. Both sections, Nitra-Hronský Beňadik and bypass of Banská Bystrica, were built, and are operated under the conditions of a Public-private partnership project, unlike the rest of Slovak motorway and expressway network.\n\n"}
{"id": "12752725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12752725", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Bethlehem in South Africa", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Bethlehem in South Africa\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Bethlehem () is a diocese located in the city of Bethlehem in the Ecclesiastical province of Bloemfontein in South Africa.\n\n\nThe Cathedral is the Cathedral of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in Bethlehem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4052919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4052919", "title": "Satu Mare Swabians", "text": "Satu Mare Swabians\n\nThe Satu Mare Swabians or Sathmar Swabians (German: Sathmarer Schwaben) are a German ethnic group in the Satu Mare region of Romania. They are one of the few Danube Swabian subgroups that are actually Swabian, and their dialect, Sathmar Swabian, is similar to other varieties of Swabian.\n\nMost were originally farmers in Upper Swabia who came to Partium (at the time Hungary, now Romania) during the East Colonisation in the 1700s. Their principal settlements were Satu Mare (Sathmar), Carei (Karol), Petrești (Petrifeld), and Foieni (Fienen), and they also inhabited Urziceni (Schinal), Căpleni (Kaplau), Tiream (Terem), Beltiug (Bildegg), Ciumești (Schamagosch), and Ardud (Erdeed).\n\nAfter the Second World War, many evacuated, migrated or were expelled to Germany. Those that remain in Romania, along with other German-speaking groups in Romania, are represented in politics by the DFDR (Democratic Forum of Germans in Romania).\n"}
{"id": "40325220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40325220", "title": "Séguénéga Airport", "text": "Séguénéga Airport\n\nSéguénéga Airport is a public use airstrip located near Séguénéga, Yatenga Province, Burkina Faso. The runway runs south of and parallel with the N15 road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21253588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21253588", "title": "The Highest Heights", "text": "The Highest Heights\n\n\"The Highest Heights\" is a song by the Lovebugs and was the Swiss entry to the Eurovision Song Contest 2009, held in Moscow, Russia.\n\nThe song competed in the first semi-final on 12 May 2009, but failed to reach the final on 16 May.\n"}
{"id": "43661790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43661790", "title": "World Hindu Economic Forum", "text": "World Hindu Economic Forum\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum (WHEF) is a nonprofit, based in Delhi, Bharat. It describes itself as an independent international organization committed to make Hindu society prosperous through creation and sharing of surplus wealth. The forum brings together eminent Hindu intellectuals and businesses for the purposes of collaboration. The organization holds an annual international conference and several regional conferences in different parts of the world.\nDr Sriprakash Kothari, was named as the chairperson of the second World Hindu Congress \n\nThe WHEF seeks to bring together financially successful individuals from the Hindu Society, such as traders, bankers, technocrats, investors, industrialists, businessmen, professionals, economists, and thinkers under one roof so that each group can share their business knowledge, experience, and expertise with their fellow brethren to make them understand the principles of surplus wealth generation to make society prosperous.\n\nThe forum was founded by Shri Swami Vigyananand , an Alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur. He says \"We are now living in the 21st century, equipped with all the advanced technologies like airplane, internet, mobiles, and other modern facilities. When we go back in time to recollect the age of torture, destruction, suppression and humiliation that our forefathers underwent, we should derive inspiration from the fact that when our ancestors worked and survived in such difficult times and conditions, so what stops us from excelling in these technologically advanced times?\"\n\nThird Annual conference of World Hindu Economic Forum was held at New Delhi with theme “Thriving Economy, Prospering Economy”. WHEF 2014 was one of the 7 parallel conferences of first ever World Hindu Congress being organized at New Delhi during November 21–23, 2014. Around 1800 delegates from 53 countries joined the 3-day event. As per news papers, top government officials including ministers addressed the event showing full support to this event \n\nProminent speakers expected are the Dalai Lama, Swami Dayananda Saraswati, Dr. Mohanrao Bhagwat, Sarsanghchalak, Hon’ble Ministers: Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport and Highways, Smt. Smriti Irani, Minister of Human Resources Development, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Dr. Ashni Singh, Minister of Finance, Republic of Guyana; Eminent Scientists: G.Madhavan Nair, Dr. Vijay Bhatkar, leading educationists: Prof. S.B. Majumdar, Dr. G. Visvanthan, Prof. Kapil Kapoor, Film Makers Priyadarshan and Major Ravi, Popular film actress from South Smt. Sukanya Ramesh also joined and spoke in the event.\n\nThe conference was inaugurated by Shri D. Devadas, Member Organising Committee WHEF Bangkok, 2013; Shri Susheel Saraff, Chairman, Organising Committee WHEF 2013, Bangkok; Shri Arun Kumar Bajaj, Convener, WHEF Steering Committee; Dr. Gautam Sen, Member, WHEF Steering Committee, Retired Lecturer of London School of Economics & Political Science; H. E. Shri Anil Wadhwa, Ambassador of Bharat of Thailand; H. E. Dr. Olarn Chaipravat, President of the Thailand Trade Representative & Former Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand.\nH. E. Dr. Olarn Chaipravat welcomed all the delegates on behalf of the Prime Minister of Thailand and the Royal Thai Government. 7 different sessions were conducted. The sessions included discussions on topics like Emerging opportunities & challenges from free trade agreement, regional economic communities & new geographical areas, Keynote Speeches from Businesses & Industries, Enormous opportunities of business in alternative energy and so on. The sessions were chaired by genius minds like Prof. (Dr.) R. Vaidyanathan, Shri \"Suresh Prabhu\", Prof. (Dr.) Guna Magesan. One session was chaired by young and vibrant Kritika Bajaj. This underlined the greater involvement of youth in WHEF and many of its activities. Another such session was conducted by Liza Bhansali, Pritika Sharma & Nitika Sharma which focused on entrepreneurship among today's youth. Amit Srivastava presented the report on World Hindu and Student Conference organized in Bali during 2012. Shri S.V.Anand handed over the first copy of the book ‘Global Handbook on Flooring’ to Shri L. Gopakumar and Shri Vinod Kumar to mark the book's release. The conference united most of the influential personalities in the field of economy and business and led to lot of knowledge exchange. This catalyzed the efforts of strengthening economy.\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum for South East Asia was conducted at Hong Kong, in the year 2012. Over 250 prominent businesspersons, industrialists, economists, bankers, international traders and business association leaders attended the meet from different countries from Europe, Asia, Africa and Pacific region. Four panels, namely: successful models: Making small & medium-sized enterprise successful in Global Market place, Developing Hindu Economy, Mega trends in global economy & prospects of Bharat's economy and Mantra for Successful Business Enterprise, were designed to discuss nuances of economy & business. The conference was inaugurated by Hon. Shri Anil Kumar Bachoo, Dr \"Subramanian Swamy\", Dr. Gautam Sen, Dr. G. Madhavan Nair, Prof. (Dr.) R. Vaidyanathan, Dr. \"Vijay P. Bhatkar, Shri Subhash Thakrar, Dr. Dilip N. Kulkarni. All that is crucial for a progressive economy ranging from Infrastructure, Transport & Natural Resources, Global Challenges and opportunities, Development of Aerospace Technology & Economic Opportunity, research & development in the field of science & technology, social entrepreneurship were discussed. The Discussion covered the welfare of a farmer as well as that of an industrialist. There was a unanimous agreement on the urgent need of importance to give back to the roots of traditional economy. \n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum - Regional Forum for Europe took place at London Chamber of Commerce and Industry on November 4, 2012. It was conducted at the heart of the European business center. Along with scores of bright young Hindu professionals and businessmen, many prominent Hindu professionals and businessmen also attended the forum. Shri Subhash Thakrar (Member of WHYC Steering Committee), and Shri Anil Puri (Member of Steering Committee), Prof. (Dr.) R. Vaidyanathan, Dr. Gautam Sen, S. V. Anand, Shri Arun Bajaj and Shri Anil Puri share their thoughts at the conference.\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum - Regional Forum for South-East and East Asia was organized in Malaysia from 6–7 January 2013 at the Berjaya Times Square Hotel. Delegates from the ASEAN Countries, Bharat, UK and Fiji graced the conference.\n\nSpeakers included Shri Dato J. Jegathesan, Dr. Gautam Sen, Shri S.V. Anand, Shri Arun Bajaj, Prof. (Dr.) R. Vaidyanathan, Prof. (Dr.) Mahendhiran Nair, Shri Shubash Thakrar, Shri Datuk Ramesh Kodammal, Shri Datuk V. Nadarajan, Ms. Suseela Menon, Shri M.S. Subramaniam. A special session was held on strengthening the Hindu economy in Sri Lanka. The session was organized by Shri Datuk B. Sahadevan, Shri V.K. Regu and other volunteers.\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum for North America took place on April 28, 2013 at Dallas, Texas, which is known to the financial hub of Southern USA. It was the first forum of its kind in North America where Hindu entrepreneurs from across various business domain came together on one platform. Many prominent Hindu businessmen and venture capitalists from Texas and other parts of The USA were present at the forum.\nShri S.V. Anand, Shri Sashi Kejriwal, Shri Nitin Anand, Shri Dayakar Pushkar, Dr. Prakasarao Velagapudi and Shri Rahul Chandra shared their views on this occasion.\n\nThe Dallas-based World Hindu Foundation team joined via virtual meeting and provided key inputs on integrating Canadian based businessman with the World Hindu Economic Forum. WHEF looks forward to expanding and integrating more and more Hindu entrepreneurs in the North American Regional chapter into its global fold and plans to conduct more conferences within the USA and Canada in near future.\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum for pacific (Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Oceania) was organized in Fiji on May 4, 2013 at The Sheraton Hotel Nadi, with the theme \"Making the South Pacific Community Prosperous\". The forum was attended by a good number of prominent Hindu Businessmen from Fiji, Australia and New Zealand. The forum was inaugurated by Dr. Neil Sharma, Minister for Health, Government of Fiji. \nShri Vinod Kumar, Bharat's High Commissioner to Fiji, emphasized on the potential to increase trade between Bharat and Fiji and lauded the effort of WHEF. Shr Jay Dayall emphasized on making the Pacific Hindu Community prosperous in all respects.\nOther key people who presented papers at this Forum included Vice-chancellor of Fiji National University, Dr. Ganesh Chand, Chairperson of Fiji Commerce Commission, Dr. Mahendra Reddy, Chair of the Oceania Development Network and Professor of Economics at the University of South pacific, Prof. Biman Prasad.\n\nWorkshops on the following topics were organized at the forum:\nShri Noel Lal and Prof Guna Magesan chaired these sessions.\n\nThe World Hindu Economic Forum for South Africa was hosted by Lotus Chamber of Commerce. The theme of the conference was Making Africa Prosperous. The event was attended by several reputed businessmen and intellectuals from South Africa and neighbouring countries.\n\nSpeakers for the events were Shri S.V. Anand, Cllr. James Nxumalo, MEC Mihael Mabuyakhulu, Mr. Akash Singh, Shri. Ashok Chowgule, Shri. Sujit S Nair, FRSA, Shri. Arvinda Rao, Shri MK Angajan, Ms. Prasheen Singh, Ms. Fawzia Peer, Dr. Suren Pillay, Ms. Sulosh Pillay, and Dr. Anil Sooklal.\n\nMembers discussed Trading opportunities in Africa and how it can be used to make overall Africa prosperous.\n\n"}
