{"id": "3510734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3510734", "title": "Achimelech", "text": "Achimelech\n\nAchimelech may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "7674625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7674625", "title": "Al Lary", "text": "Al Lary\n\nAlfred Allen Lary (September 26, 1928 – July 10, 2001) was an American professional baseball player. He was a right-handed pitcher who appeared in 29 games played—16 as a pitcher, 12 as a pinch runner and one as a pinch hitter—for the Chicago Cubs of Major League Baseball (1954–55; 1962). Prior to playing pro baseball, Lary had an outstanding college football career at the University of Alabama. He was the older brother of Detroit Tigers' All-Star pitcher Frank Lary.\n\nLary was listed as tall and . He signed his first pro contract with the Cubs before the 1951 season, spent 1953 in military service, and made his Major League debut on September 25, 1954, in a start against the Cincinnati Redlegs at Wrigley Field. The opposing pitcher was Art Fowler. Lary pitched six innings and allowed two earned runs, receiving no decision in the 4–2 Cubs victory. He was with the Cubs briefly in 1955 and was used in four games, all as a pinch runner. It would be seven years before he reached the Major League level again.\n\nLary gave up Willie Mays' 324th career home run, a grand slam, in Candlestick Park on April 28, 1962. His career totals for his 16 career games pitched include a win-loss record of 0–1, four games started, four games finished, and an ERA of 6.52. In 40 innings pitched he struck out 22, walked 22, and allowed 45 hits. He spent his entire, 13-year baseball career as a member of the Cubs' organization.\n\nLary died by accidental drowning in his hometown of Northport, Alabama, at the age of 72. Lary had Parkinson's disease at the time of his death. \n\n"}
{"id": "6465240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6465240", "title": "Andrew Jefford", "text": "Andrew Jefford\n\nAndrew Jefford (born 1956) is an English journalist, radio presenter, poet, magazine editor, and as a wine writer, the author of various books and columns.\n\nThe son of a Church of England clergyman and the eldest of three brothers, Jefford grew up in Norfolk, England. He was educated at Gresham's School, the University of Reading (where he read English) and the University of East Anglia, where his post-graduate studies were jointly supervised by the late Sir Malcolm Bradbury and Guido Almansi. At UEA he worked for two years on a PhD thesis on the short fiction of Robert Louis Stevenson, which was not completed.\n\nHe began work as an editor with Paul Hamlyn's \"Octopus Group\", and his passions for wine and writing led to articles and books on wine, after four years in publishing in 1988. He was the drinks writer for \"The Evening Standard\", the evening newspaper for the London region, between 1992 and 2002, occasionally presents \"The Food Programme\" on BBC Radio 4, and writes a bi-monthly column for \"Decanter\". Jefford is also contributing editor to the magazine \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\nAmong his books are \"The New France\" (2002), about which Jefford has stated, \"..[my theme is] the championing of individuals rather than multi-nationals, of families rather than corporate shareholders, of agriculture rather than industry, of authenticity of origin rather than marketing stratagems\".\n\nOn television, he has worked as a chef's assistant and has reported on whisky for \"Food File\" (Channel 4, 1996) and \"SCAM\" (Carlton Television, 2003)\n\nHe has won eight Glenfiddich Awards, has twice been named \"British Beer Writer of the Year\", and was named \"Communicator of the Year\" in the 2001 International Wine and Spirit Competition.\n\nJefford lives in Montpellier, France. He is also a published poet, with work featured in \"The Spectator\" and \"The Independent\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1189885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189885", "title": "André Rigaud", "text": "André Rigaud\n\nBenoit Joseph André Rigaud (1761 – 18 September 1811) was the leading mulatto military leader during the Haitian Revolution. Among his protégés were Alexandre Pétion and Jean-Pierre Boyer, both future presidents of Haïti.\n\nRigaud was born on 17 January 1761 in Les Cayes, Saint-Domingue, to André Rigaud, a wealthy French planter, and Rose Bossy Depa, a slave woman. His father acknowledged the mixed-race (mulatto) boy as his at a young age, and sent him to Bordeaux, where he was trained as a goldsmith.\n\nAndré Rigaud was known to have worn a brown-haired wig with straight hair to resemble a white man as closely as possible.\n\nAfter returning to Saint-Domingue from France, Rigaud became active in politics; he was a successor to Vincent Ogé and Julien Raimond as a champion of the interests of free people of color in Saint-Domingue (as colonial Haïti was known). Rigaud aligned himself with revolutionary France and with an interpretation of the Rights of Man that ensured the civil equality of all free people.\n\nBy the mid-1790s with slave uprisings in the North, Rigaud was leading an army, a force in the Ouest and Sud departments. He was given authority to govern by Étienne Polverel, one of the three French Civil Commissioners who had abolished slavery in Saint-Domingue in 1793. Rigaud's power came from his influence with the mulatto planters, found mostly in the South. They were fearful of the masses of former slaves; Rigaud's army also contained blacks and whites.\n\nIn the South and West, from 1793 to 1798, Rigaud helped defeat a British invasion and re-establish the plantation economy. Although Rigaud respected Toussaint Louverture, the leading general of the former black slaves of the North, and his superior rank in the French Revolutionary Army, he did not want to concede power in the South to him. Rigaud continued to believe in Saint-Domingue's race-based caste system which put mulattoes just below whites while leaving blacks at the bottom, a belief that put him at odds with Toussaint. This led to the bitter \"War of Knives\" (\"La Guerre des Couteaux\") in June 1799, when Toussaint's army invaded Rigaud's territory. Comte d'Hédouville, sent by France to govern the island, encouraged Rigaud's rivalry with Toussaint. In 1800, Rigaud left Saint-Domingue for France after his defeat by Toussaint Louverture.\n\nRigaud returned to Saint-Domingue in 1802 with the expedition of General Charles Leclerc, Napoleon's brother-in-law. He was sent to unseat Toussaint and re-establish French colonial rule and slavery in Saint-Domingue. After the First French Republic abolished slavery in the colony in 1794, following the first slave uprising, the colonial system based on exports of commodities from sugar cane and coffee plantations had been undermined. Sugar production fell markedly, and many surviving white and mulatto planters left the island as refugees. Many emigrated to the United States, where they settled in southern cities such as Charleston, or to the Spanish colonies of Cuba or New Orleans. LeClerc was initially successful, capturing and deporting Toussaint, but Toussaint's officers led the opposition by Haitian indigenous troops; they fought on for two more years. Defeated by disease as well as Haitian resistance, France withdrew its 7,000 surviving troops in November 1803; they were less than one-third of the forces that had been sent there. Jean-Jacques Dessalines, a black from the North, led Saint-Domingue to victory and independence, declaring Haiti the new name of the nation. He ultimately declared himself emperor.\n\nRigaud returned to France after the failure of the expedition in 1802-1803. For a time he was held a prisoner in Fort de Joux, the same fortress as his rival Toussaint, where the latter died in 1803.\n\nRigaud returned to Haiti a third time in December 1810. He established himself as \"President of the State of the South\", in opposition to both Alexandre Pétion, a mulatto and former ally in the South, and Henri Christophe, a black who took power in the North. Shortly after Rigaud's death the following year, Pétion recovered power over the South. Rigaud's tomb is on a small hill between Camp-Perrin and Les Cayes, which is now split in half to make a new road to ease transport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9374", "title": "Armed Forces of Equatorial Guinea", "text": "Armed Forces of Equatorial Guinea\n\nThe Armed Forces of Equatorial Guinea (in Spanish: \"Fuerzas Armadas de Guinea Ecuatorial\") consists of approximately 2,500 service members. The army has almost 1,400 soldiers, the police 400 paramilitary men, the navy 200 service members, and the air force about 120 members. There is also a Gendarmerie, but the number of members is unknown. The Gendarmerie is a new branch of the service in which training and education is being supported by the French Military Cooperation in Equatorial Guinea. Military appointments are all reviewed by President Teodoro Obiang, and few of the native militiamen come from outside of Obiang's Mongomo-based Esangui clan. Obiang was a general when he overthrew his uncle, Francisco Macías Nguema.\n\nOverall the military is poorly trained and equipped. It has mostly small arms, RPGs, and mortars. Almost none of its Soviet-style light-armored vehicles or trucks are operational.\n\nThe Armed Forces were reorganized in 1979. In 1988, the United States donated a 68-foot patrol boat to the Equatoguinean navy to patrol its exclusive economic zone. The U.S. patrol boat \"Isla de Bioko\" is no longer operational. U.S. military-to-military engagement has been dormant since 1997 (the year of the last Joint Combined Exchange Training exercise). Between 1984 and 1992, service members went regularly to the United States on the International Military Education Training program, after which funding for this program for Equatorial Guinea ceased. The government spent 6.5% of its annual budget on defense in 2000 and 4.5% of its budget on defense in 2001. It recently acquired some Chinese artillery pieces, some Ukrainian patrol boats, and some Ukrainian helicopter gunships. The number of paved airports in Equatorial Guinea can be counted on one hand, and as such the number of airplanes operated by the air force is small. The Equatoguineans rely on foreigners to operate and maintain this equipment as they are not sufficiently trained to do so. Cooper and Weinert 2010 says that all aircraft are based on the military side of Malabo International Airport.\n\nIn 2002, a report said \"The oil companies do not view Equatorial Guinea's military – a product of decades of brutal dictatorial rule – with much confidence. The army is believed to have only about 1,320 men under arms, the navy 120, and the air force 100. Seven of the army's nine generals are relatives of the president; the other two are from his tribe. There is no clear command structure, the level of discipline is low, and professionalism and training are almost non-existent, according to locals and foreign oil workers. Even the presidential guard – an indication of the lack of trust in the country's forces – is composed of 350 Moroccan troops.\" One general may be General Agustin Ndong Ona, reported in 2004.\n\nIn July 2010, after the visit of Brazilian president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, the sale of a Barroso-class corvette to be constructed in Brazil was announced.\n\nOn 6 November 2016 the Zimbabwe Defence Forces deployed a training contingent to the Equatorial Guinea to train the country's military officers on operational and logistic matters following an urgent request by the West African country. The security personnel contingent, is composed of members of the Zimbabwe National Army and Air Force of Zimbabwe.\n\nThe Air Force of Equatorial Guinea consists of seven fixed wing aircraft and nine helicopters providing ground support, transport, SAR, and training.\n\nAs piracy and robbery at sea is a significant threat in the Gulf of Guinea, the country is investing heavily in its navy to protect its oil installations from these and other security challenges. In 2010 a Brazilian corvette was purchased, and renamed the 'Bata'. On 24 June 2014 the Frigate Wele Nzas was commissioned and became the flagship for the Navy of Equatorial Guinea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29162152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29162152", "title": "Augustinian Recollect Province of Saint Ezequiél Moreno", "text": "Augustinian Recollect Province of Saint Ezequiél Moreno\n\nThe Augustinian Recollect Province of Saint Ezequiél Moreno is a division of the Order of Augustinian Recollects that has jurisdiction over the Philippines, Taiwan and Sierra Leone. It officially separated from the Province of Saint Nicholas de Tolentine on 28 November 1998. Today, the Provincialate House is located at the San Nicolas De Tolentino Parish Church on Neptune Street, Congressional Subdivision, Project 6, Quezon City.\n\nThough the province was only created in 1998, the Recollect Mission came to Philippine soils quite early in its history. Just 17 years after the Recollection was formed in the Chapter of Toledo, 10 priests and 4 consecrated brothers sailed to the Philippines in order to heed the request of the Archbishop of Manila to help in the Christianization of the islands. And with their arrival on 12 May 1606 at the island of Cebu, they became the fifth order to be stalwarts of Philippine evangelization. Together with the Augustinians (who arrived first in 1575), the discalced Franciscans (1578), the Jesuits (1581) and the Dominicans (1587), they performed the heroic task of not only Christianizing the Philippines but also to lay the foundations of many of its modern-day towns and cities.\n\nThe first Recollect mission to the Philippines was led by no less than the very first Prior Provincial Fray Juan de San Jerónimo. Together with him was Fr. Rodrigo de San Miguel, a man well versed not only in theology but in other sciences as well. Unfortunately, Fr. Andrés de San Nicolás did not make it to his destination but perished at sea.\n\nThough they first set foot on the island of Cebu in 1606, the Recoletos built their first priory in the same year in Bagumbayan outside the walls of the present-day Intramuros. The house is still preserved by the national government until today, though it is in an uninhabitable state. The priory was dedicated to Saint John the Baptist and became one of the centers of devotion to Our Lady of Health for many years.\n\nThree years later, they founded another house within the walls which became their Provincial House until the end of World War II. In 1616, they also founded a house in Cavite and went back to Cebu in 1621 to found yet another one. In the same year, they also began constructing the order's most prominent sanctuary in history, the Minor Basilica of San Sebastian.\n\nIn reality, the Recollection was not meant to be active. The Fifth Determination of the Chapter of Toledo was clear that the original motive of its creation was to be more contemplative. Their main plan was to live more radically their life of prayer and community. Because of this, their original priories were not parishes but contemplative houses.\n\nHowever, the difference in setting of the Philippines was so different that the missionaries in the Philippines needed to have a more active role. Filipinos flocked to their doors every Sunday to attend the Holy Mass and they had no choice but to open their doors. In 1607, they were officially given the charge to Christianize the towns of Bagac, Bataan. They also founded in the same year a community in Masinloc, Zambales, which is considered their first real parish. And finally, at the end of the decade (1609), they also were made in charge of Bolinao, Pangasinan.\n\nOn 1 March 1621, the colonial government divided the island of Mindanao into two. The northeastern section of the island was given to the Recollects while the rest was given to the Jesuits. Their most prominent area was in Butuan City, Cateel, Davao Oriental and the Dinagat Islands. However, during the Jesuit Expulsion, the task was left solely on their shoulders.\n\nPerhaps, the province that carries the heaviest imprints of the Recollect mission is the island of Negros (now divided into Negros Occidental and Negros Oriental). Given to them in 1626, the Recollects not only founded parishes but also the very towns they have today. Today, most of the names of their towns bear the same names as those of Spain, mainly those areas where the missionaries came from.\n\nOther areas that were given to them were the islands of Romblon, Banton and Tablas in 1635. Mindoro was added to their charge in 1679 and eight years later, the island of Masbate. Finally, they were also given some areas in the present-day Quezon Province in 1658.\n\nIn 1712, the Governor General Martin Ursua y Arizmendi, ordered the establishment of the towns along Pampanga - Pangasinan route to secure travelers from Aeta and Zambal raids. Incidentally, in the same year, the spiritual administration of the Zambales was restored to the Augustinian Recollects after a prolonged dispute with the Dominicans. The Recollects opposed the governor’s order because of the inherent difficulty of its execution. But the governor insisted. He even invoked the name of the King in his second request and order. The Recollects bowed in obedience. They sent the best devout missionaries to start the missions. Soon, the towns of Mabalacat and Panipoan or Bamban and Capas were established.\n\nBy 1898, the year that the Filipinos declared their freedom from Spain, the Recollects were attending to about 1,203,399 souls in 203 towns and 20 provinces in the Philippines.\n\nThe Recollect missionaries in the Philippines did not content themselves with Christianizing the Philippines. They also embarked on an ambitious mission to other areas, most notably in Japan. Despite the scarcity of resources, they began an arduous mission to the said country 1623. The mission was begun by Spanish Fr. Francisco de Jesús and the Portuguese Fr. Vicente Carvalho and sowed the seeds of Christianity in Unzen, in the island of Kyushu. Their mission blessed the order with its very first martyrs in Japan. The two priests were subjected to slow fire on 3 September 1623.\n\nTheir fate was repeated in the person of Fr. Melchor de San Agustín and Fr. Martín de San Nicolás in 1632. However, before the two died, they were able to give some catechetical instruction to a young girl named Magdalene in the Prefecture of Nagasaki. She later became a member of the Tertiary and became the order's very first saint.\n\nGiven that the Spanish dominions over the Pacific were under the management of the Captaincy General of the Philippines, the province also sent missions to some of the islands of the Marianas.\n\nPresently, the Philippine province is also in charge of the mission in Taiwan and Sierra Leone.\n\nFounded by the Dionisia Talangpaz and her sister Cecilia Rosa on 16 July 1728, the Augustinian Recollect Sisters is the second oldest congregation in the Philippines after the Religious of the Virgin Mary. It also holds the honor of being the third oldest congregation founded in Asia.\n\nIt was originally an organization of Tertiaries but later on developed into a full congregation. The congregation is perpetually united to the Order of Augustinian Recollects in many ties. It is one of the active congregations belonging to the Augustinian Recollects family and a fruit brought forth out of the missionary zeal of the Order.\n\nThe primitive Augustinian Recollect Fathers guided the two foundresses and the first community of beatas. They directed the Beaterio from its earlier stage of growth and development until it was canonically erected as a diocesan religious congregation on 19 August 1929 through the recommendation of the Reverend Father Gerardo Larrondo, the incumbent Prior General of the Recollect Friars; and through the benevolence of the Most Reverend Michael O'Doherty, then, Archbishop of Manila.\nStill with the nurturing assistance of the Augustinian Recollect Order, juridical autonomy was procured for the congregation which subsequently was declared an Institute of Pontifical Right by the Holy See on 20 November 1970, under the pontificate of Pope Paul VI.\n\nThe Secular Augustinian Recollect Fraternity is the Third Order or Tertiary of the Order of Augustinian Recollects. Founded as early as the 1650s in the town of Bolinao, Pangasinan, these pious men and women share in the charism of the Recoletos in their daily lives.\n\nIn fact, the history of the Secular Augustinian Recollects is so fruitful in the province that it is from this province that the first martyr and saint of the order came in the person of Magdalene of Nagasaki.\n\nAside from this wondrous saint, the Secular Augustinian Recollect was also blessed with other heroic people like Calara Calima and Isabel. In fact, the modern-day Augustinian Recollect Sisters were members of the SARF during their earlier times.\n\nToday, with more than 400 members scattered all over the archipelago, the Philippines Tertiaries are the second most numerous both in terms of nationality and provincial affinity.\n\nConsidered the Fourth Order, this organization aims to form the modern youth with the spirituality of Saint Augustine. Recollect Augustinian Youth aims to pray for the saints, the religious men and women, and also the priest. They also preach about vocations and the true essence of St. Augustine and its works.\n\nAside from administering parishes, the OAR, in another good way to further help the Philippines, is to educate their people. Therefore, the Recollects began founding learning institutions as well. Scattered all over the country, these institutions are considered to be one of the centers of learning in their respective areas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:Catholkayat"}
{"id": "58107498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58107498", "title": "Bekkhan Ozdoev", "text": "Bekkhan Ozdoev\n\nBekkhan Abdurakhmanovich Ozdoev (; born 15 May 1993 in Ingushetia) is a Russian Greco-Roman wrestler of Ingush descent who wrestles in the 87 kg weight category.\n\nOzdoev began wrestling for its courage, beauty and unexpected impressiveness. He decided to start training in Greco-Roman wrestling as his elder brother Khamzat and his neighbors were also engaged in the sport. Ozdoev began wrestling under Askhab Belkharoev in the small village of Galashki, Ingushetia. After several years, Ozdoev decided to move to Rostov-on-Don to continue with education and to train wrestling, becoming there a successful wrestler at cadet and junior level.\n\nOzdoev competed at the 2018 European Wrestling Championships in Kaspiysk, Dagestan. Ozdoev faced Matuzevičius of Lithuania in the Round of 32, and won by 11-2 technical fall, then faced former two-time European Championships bronze medalist Artur Shahinyan of Armenia, Ozdoev beat Shahinyan by 9-1, resulting in another technical fall. Ozdoev then faced World silver medalist Denis Kudla and won by fall. In the semi-finals, Ozdoev beat Islam Abbasov by a 4-3 score. In the final match, Ozdoev faced Georgian wrestler, Robert Kobliashvili, but lost by a score of 3-2, ultimately winning the silver medal. \n\nOzdoev won gold at the 2018 Russian National Championships, defeating three former-Olympic gold championships in the process. Ozdoev first defeated Aleksey Mishin, an Olympic champion from the 2004 Summer Olympics, then defeated 2012 Olympic champion, Alan Khugayev. In the final match, Ozdoev defeated reigning 2016 Olympic champion Davit Chakvetadze by 10-0 technical fall, thus making Ozdoev a two-time Russian national champion and securing Ozdoev's place to wrestle at the 2018 World Wrestling Championships held in Budapest, Hungary.\n"}
{"id": "1995876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995876", "title": "Billy Mackenzie", "text": "Billy Mackenzie\n\nWilliam MacArthur MacKenzie (27 March 1957 – 22 January 1997) was a Scottish singer, with a high tenor voice. He was a member of The Associates.\n\nMacKenzie was born and grew up in Dundee. As a youngster, he lived on Park Avenue in the Stobswell area of the city. He attended St Mary's Forebank Primary School and St Michael's Secondary School. He led a peripatetic lifestyle, decamping to New Zealand at the age of 16, and travelling across America aged 17. Here he married Chloe Dummar, the sister-in-law of his Aunt Veronica. While MacKenzie was quoted as saying the marriage was made to stave off deportation so that he could sing with the New Orleans Gospel Choir – calling his wife a 'Dolly Parton type' – Dummar still believes the pair were in love. He left her after three months of marriage and returned to Dundee, and the two never had contact again. Chloe Dummar filed for divorce in 1980, and MacKenzie did not contest the filing. Chloe's brother, Melvin Dummar, claimed to be the \"one sixteenth\" beneficiary of the estate of Howard Hughes, until the case was thrown out in 1978.\n\nMacKenzie returned to Scotland where he met Alan Rankine and in 1976 formed the Ascorbic Ones. They changed the name to Mental Torture and finally Associates in 1979. Rankine left Associates in 1982, but MacKenzie continued to work under the name for several years until he began releasing material under his own name in the 1990s. Mackenzie also collaborated with many other artists during his career. In 1987, he wrote lyrics for two tracks on Yello's album \"One Second\": \"Moon on Ice\", which he sang himself, and \"The Rhythm Divine\", which was sung by Shirley Bassey and was released as a single. A version sung by MacKenzie was released on the tape and CD versions of Associates' \"Popera\" compilation). MacKenzie also collaborated with B.E.F. (British Electric Foundation) for their two albums \"Music of Quality and Distinction\" Volume I (1982) & Volume II (1991).\n\nOn 22 January 1997, depression and the death of his mother are believed to have contributed to Mackenzie's suicide. He overdosed on a combination of paracetamol and prescription medication in the garden shed of his father's house in Auchterhouse. He was 39 years old.\n\nHe was the subject of a biography by Tom Doyle, \"The Glamour Chase\", in 1998.\n\nSiouxsie Sioux wrote the song \"Say\", revealing in the lyrics that they were going to meet just before his death. The song was released as a single by The Creatures in 1999, reaching No. 72 in the UK Singles Chart. The Cure song \"Cut Here\" in 2001, written by Robert Smith, a friend of Mackenzie, is about the regret Robert felt about seeing Mackenzie a few weeks before his death backstage at a Cure concert, and not giving him any of his 'precious time' and fobbing him off. For her \"Medúlla\" album, Björk considered singing a beyond the grave duet with Mackenzie using recordings given to her by his father, but eventually decided against it.\n\nBetween 9–27 June 2009, a play entitled \"Balgay Hill\" about the story of Mackenzie's life was showing at Dundee Repertory Theatre, in Mackenzie's home town. It tells the story of his life through the eyes of four fictional characters, and the title of the play derives from the name of the Dundee cemetery where the singer was buried.\n\nThe novel \"Spying on Strange Men\" by Carole Morin, contains the following section:\n\nMorin said in an interview: \"I was devastated by his death which is odd because I didn’t know him. My husband did. Mackenzie’s death affected me in a way that Ian Curtis's didn’t. Curtis seemed born to die. Mackenzie should have outgrown his gloom and become an eccentric old man. I think our work is similar. It’s the duality of glamour and spirituality in his voice that attracts me. His toughness and fragility; darkness and laughter. He could be a character from one of my books. I always meant to send him a copy of Dead Glamorous.\" \n\n\n\n\n\n\"† lyrics by Mackenzie\"\n\"‡ also appear on \"Auchtermatic\"\n\n\"(6 of MacKenzie's Yello tracks later released on the \"Essential Yello\" album) (1992)\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50360970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50360970", "title": "Dede Rosyada", "text": "Dede Rosyada\n\nDede Rosyada (born in Ciamis, West Java) is a Muslim academic and intellectual from Indonesia. He has been rector of UIN Syarif Hidayatullah Jakarta since 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38622289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38622289", "title": "Donald H. Owings", "text": "Donald H. Owings\n\nDonald H. Owings (December 7, 1943 – April 9, 2011) was a professor of psychology and faculty member of the Animal Behavior Graduate Group at the University of California, Davis. \nHis research focused on ground squirrels, in particular, their interactions with predators such as rattlesnakes; and, more generally, on concepts of communication within and between species. In 1994, he was elected as a fellow of the animal behavior society and in 2010 he received the Exemplar Award for mentoring graduate students.\n\nHe was born in Atlanta, Georgia in the United States. He graduated from Bellaire High School in Houston, Texas. In 1965, he earned a B.A. degree from the University of Texas at Austin followed by a Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Washington in 1972. In 1971, he became a faculty member University of California, Davis department of psychology. In 1994, his research in the field of animal behavior resulted in his election as a fellow of the Animal Behavior Society and in 2010, he received the Exemplar Award for mentor graduate students from the Animal Behavior Society. In connection with this award, one of his former graduate students wrote:\n\n\"It was so wonderful working with you - I really could not have asked for a better advisor. I learned so much from you and am grateful for how you broadened my understanding of animal behavior and let me be part of a truly fascinating research system and great research team\".\nHis parents were Markely J. Owings and Erin White Owings. He was married to Sharon Calhoun Owings and had a son, Ragon and daughter, Anna. He died at his home after battling prostate cancer for over 24 years.\n\nHis primary animal system for investigating animal behavior, social behavior and communication, and antipredator and counter-antipredator behavior was California ground squirrels and snakes (especially rattlesnakes). Adult California ground squirrels must defend against avian and mammalian predators. They also must defend their pups especially from predation by rattlesnakes and gopher snakes. Owings together with his students and colleagues discovered a number of behavioral and physiological defense mechanisms against snakes. When ground squirrels encounter a predator, their first response is to typically vocalize in distinctly different ways to aerial and ground predators. Encounters with snakes may elicit ground predator vocalization, but ground squirrels then shift to visual signaling by tail flagging.\nTail flagging has the advantage of harassing snakes and deterring them from entering burrows with squirrel pups, but it has the disadvantage of requiring close proximity to snakes increasing the likelihood of snake bites. In response to this problem, ground squirrels have evolved the capacity to neutralize rattlesnake venom.\n\nRattlesnakes have evolved specialized sensory organs (infrared-sensitive pit organs) that enhance their ability to predate small mammals. This ability to sense in the infrared set the stage for ground squirrels to evolve antipredator counter-innovations that take advantage of the specialized sensory organs of rattlesnakes. Owings and colleagues found that ground squirrels shunt blood to their tails when encountering rattlesnakes. This allows ground squirrels to tail flag to rattlesnakes even in the dark with their hot tails that rattlesnakes can detect with infrared-sensitive pit organs. Ground squirrels do not shunt blood to their tails when they encounter gopher snakes, which also feed on their young, but lack infrared-sensitive pit organs.\n\nHis research on predator-prey interactions between ground squirrels and rattlesnakes led to the formulation of a new theoretical perspective on communication called \"assessment/management\" view of communication. From this perspective, communication is dependent on the sensory and action systems of the individuals engaged in communication. Information is not sent or received by individuals but rather it is extracted from what others are doing and their context (i.e., Gibsonian affordances). The extracted information is then assessed and acted upon. What affordances an individual extracts and assesses depend on its sensory systems and, more generally, on the nature of its umwelt (i.e., an animal's sensory-actions systems). Because communication requires the extraction of information from affordances presented to individuals, this creates the opportunity to manipulate or manage the behavior of others by controlling the affordances they perceive. For example, ground squirrels have evolved the ability to shunt blood to their tails, which heats their tails up. They can then tail-flag at rattlesnakes, which can perceive their hot tails in the infrared. Communication is thus an inter-individual process of extracting and assessing information from affordances and actively managing the affordances perceived by others and thereby managing their behavior. In this view, communication is self-interested behavior, shaped by natural selection.\n\nThe assessment/management view of communication is very general, allowing for both intra- and inter-species communication. It can also be extended to human communication to encompass a broader understanding of human communication during early development. The first form of human communication occurs via human infant crying. Human infants are helpless and their sensory-action systems are severely limited when compared to the sensory-action systems of their caregivers. They are very limited in assessing their own needs much less managing them. Caregivers can assess and manage the needs of infants, but they lack direct access to emotional needs of infants (e.g., hunger, pain). Human infant crying is highly salient and normally activates the assessment and management systems of caregivers directing them to crying infants. When successful, caregivers assess the needs of crying infants and act in ways that reduce these needs (e.g., feeding a hungry infant). The noxiousness of crying may be a factor some cases of child abuse.\n\nThe assessment/management approach is predictive of malfunctions in infant-caregiver communication. For example, colic is common in technologically developed western countries, and may be the result of the decreased proximity between caregiver and infant. The decreased proximity can result in delayed responses by caregivers to crying infants resulting in infants escalating crying with the subsequent development long bouts crying that do not stop when a caregivers attempts to manage distressed infants.\n\nThe robosquirrel project stems directly from Owings' long-term research on the interactions of ground squirrels and rattlesnakes together with his assessment/management view of communication. Robosquirrel was developed to test implication of the assessment/management approach by developing robotic squirrels that could allow researchers to precisely control what affordances (e.g. tail wagging and tail heating) are presented to rattlesnakes for assessment and how these affordances can manage rattlesnake behavior.\nbut it also created controversy when Senator Tom Coburn highlighted it in his \"Wastebook 2012\" as a scientific research project that wastes United States federal tax dollars. \nThe researchers involved have responded to these issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42723949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42723949", "title": "Edy Campagnoli", "text": "Edy Campagnoli\n\nEdy Campagnoli (12 June 1934 – 6 February 1995) was an Italian television personality and actress.\n\nBorn Edda Campagnoli in Milan, she started her career as a runway model after World War II. In 1954 she played Venus in the opera \"La Vestale\" by Luchino Visconti. \n\nCampagnoli made her television debut in the program \"Vetrine\", then, noticed by a RAI manager, in 1955 she was chosen as the assistant of Mike Bongiorno in the popular quiz show \"Lascia o raddoppia?\". In spite of the controversities surrounding her ornamental role, for which she was nicknamed \"la valletta muta\" (i.e. \"the mute valet\"), Campagnoli achieved a large popularity, as to be referred as \"the most famous woman in Italy\". \n\nAfter abandoning the quiz show in 1959, Campagnoli appeared in a number of other television programs, then she left the showbusiness in mid-1960s to pursue a career as a fashion businesswoman. She died at 60 years old for the consequences of a stroke. She had been married to Italian football goalkeeper Lorenzo Buffon for a time, although they later divorced. She had previously also dated Buffon's career rival, goalkeeper Giorgio Ghezzi.\n"}
{"id": "10082478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10082478", "title": "Flight and expulsion of Germans from Poland during and after World War II", "text": "Flight and expulsion of Germans from Poland during and after World War II\n\nThe flight and expulsion of Germans from Poland was the largest of a series of flights and expulsions of Germans in Europe during and after World War II. The German population fled or was expelled from all regions which are currently within the territorial boundaries of Poland, including the former eastern territories of Germany and parts of pre-war Poland.\n\nDuring World War II, expulsions were initiated by Nazi Germany in occupied Poland. The Germans deported 2.478 million Polish citizens from the Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany, murdered another 5.38–5.58 million Poles and Polish Jews and resettled 1.3 million ethnic Germans in their place. \nAround 500,000 Germans were stationed in Poland as part of its occupation force; these consisted of people such as clerks, technicians and support staff.\n\nThe German population east of Oder-Neisse was estimated at over 11 million in early 1945. The first mass flight of Germans followed the Red Army's advance and was composed of both spontaneous flight driven by rumours of Soviet atrocities, and organised evacuation starting in the summer of 1944 and continuing through to the spring of 1945. Overall about 1% (100,000) of the German civilian population east of the Oder–Neisse line perished in the fighting prior to the surrender in May 1945. In 1945, the eastern territories of Germany as well as Polish areas annexed by Germany were occupied by the Soviet Red Army and Polish Communist military forces. German civilians were also sent as \"reparations labor\" to the USSR. The Soviet Union transferred former German territories in the east of the Oder–Neisse line to Poland in July 1945. In mid-1945, 4.5 to 4.6 million Germans remained on the territories under Polish control. Early expulsions in Poland were undertaken by the Polish Communist military authorities even before the Potsdam Conference (\"wild expulsions\"), to ensure the later integration into an ethnically homogeneous Poland as envisioned by the Polish Communists. Between seven hundred and eight hundred thousand Germans were affected. By early 1946, 932,000 had been verified as having Polish nationality. In the February 1946 census, 2,288,000 persons were listed as Germans and 417,400 became subject to verification aiming at the establishment of nationality. From the spring of 1946 the expulsions gradually became better organised, affecting the remaining German population. By 1950, 3,155,000 German civilians had been expelled and 1,043,550 were naturalised as Polish citizens. Germans considered \"indispensable\" for the Polish economy were retained; virtually all had left by 1960. Some 500,000 Germans in Poland, East Prussia, and Silesia were employed as forced labor in communist-administered camps prior to being expelled from Poland. Besides large camps, some of which were re-used German concentration camps, numerous other forced labour, punitive and internment camps, urban ghettos, and detention centres sometimes consisting only of a small cellar were set up.\n\nThe attitude of Polish civilians, many of whom had experienced brutalities during the preceding German occupation, was varied. There were incidents when Poles, even freed slave labourers, protected Germans, for example by disguising them as Poles. The attitude of the Soviet soldiers was ambivalent. Many committed numerous atrocities, most prominently rapes and murders, and did not always distinguish between Poles and Germans, often mistreating them alike. Other Soviets were taken aback by the brutal treatment of the Germans and engaged in their protection. According to the West German Schieder commission of 1953, the civilian death toll was 2 million. However, in 1974 the German Federal Archives estimated a death toll of about 400,000..\n\nWest German government figures of those evacuated, migrated, or expelled by 1950 totaled 8,030,000. (6,981,000 former German territories; 290,800 from Danzig, 688,000 pre-war Poland and 170,000 Baltic Germans resettled in Poland during the war). Gerhard Reichling, a researcher employed by West German government, put the figure of Germans emigrating from Poland from 1951 to 1982 at 894,000; they are also considered expellees under German Federal Expellee Law.\n\nGerman settlement in the former eastern territories of Germany and pre-war Poland dates back to the medieval Ostsiedlung. Germany used the presence and the alleged persecution of Volksdeutsche as propaganda tools in preparation for the invasion of Poland in 1939. With the invasion, Poland was partitioned between Germany and the Soviet Union according to the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. This was followed by population exchanges, and included Baltic Germans who were settled to occupied Poland.\n\nGermany's Generalplan Ost strategy for Central and Eastern Europe envisioned the creation of a Greater Germany, which was to be built by means of removing a variety of non-Germans from Poland and other areas in Central and Eastern Europe, mainly Slavs and Jews believed by Nazis to be subhuman. These non-Germans were targeted for slave labor and eventual extermination. While Generalplan Ost's settlement ambitions did not come into full effect due to the war's turn, millions of Germans mostly from Central and Eastern Europe were settled by the Nazis to replace Poles removed or killed during the occupation. Germany deported millions of Poles either to other territories, to concentration camps or as slave workers. Many others were deported by the Soviet Union during the years 1939-1941, when Germany and Soviet Union cooperated against Poles.\n\nGerman communities living within the pre-war borders of Poland participated in wartime German activities, starting with the invasion of Poland. Created on order of Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler, a Nazi ethnic German organisation called Selbstschutz carried out mass murder during \"Intelligenzaktion\" alongside operational groups of German military and police. In addition, the German minority engaged in such activities as identifying Poles for execution and illegally detaining them. To Poles, moving Germans out of Poland was seen as an attempt to avoid such events in the future and, as a result, the Polish government in exile proposed a population transfer of Germans as early as 1941.\n\nRepresentatives of the Polish Government were not present at any of those conference and felt betrayed by their western Allies who decided about future Polish borders behind their backs.\n\nFollowing the Tehran Conference (November–December 1943) Joseph Stalin and Winston Churchill made it clear that the Soviets would keep the Polish territories east of the Curzon Line and offered Poland territorial compensation in the West. The final decision to move Poland's boundary westward, preconditioning the expulsion of Germans, was made by Britain, the Soviet Union, and the United States at the Yalta Conference in February 1945, when the Curzon line was irrevocably fixed as the future Polish-Soviet border. The precise location of the Polish western border was left open and, though basically the Allies had agreed on population transfers, the extent remained questioned. Concerning the post-war western frontier of Poland, the agreement simply read: \"If a specific problem such as the frontiers of liberated Poland and the complexion of its government allowed no easy solution, hopes were held out for the future discussion of all outstanding problems in an amicable manner.\" Upon gaining control of these lands, the Soviet and Polish-Communist authorities started to expel the German population.\n\nIn July 1945, at the Potsdam Conference, the Allies placed most former eastern territories of Germany east of the Oder–Neisse line under Polish administration. Article XIII concerning the transfer of Germans was adopted at the Potsdam Conference in July 1945. It was an emergency measure, drafted and adopted in great haste, a response to the wild expulsions of Germans from Czechoslovakia and Poland, which had created a chaotic situation in the American and British zones of occupation. The Soviet Union transferred territories to the east of the Oder–Neisse line to Poland in July 1945. Subsequently, most of the remaining Germans were expelled to the territories west of the line.\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman complained that there were now five occupation zones because the Soviets had turned over the area extending along the Oder and western Neisse to Poland and was concerned about Germany's economic control and war reparations. Churchill spoke against giving Poland control over an area in which some eight million Germans lived. Stalin insisted that the Germans had all fled and that the Poles were needed to fill the vacuum. On July 24, the Polish communist delegation arrived in Berlin, insisting on the Oder and western Neisse rivers as the frontier, and they vehemently argued their case before the foreign ministers, Churchill, and Truman, in turn. The next day Churchill warned Stalin: \"The Poles are driving the Germans out of the Russian zone. That should not be done without considering its effect on the food supply and reparations. We are getting into a position where the Poles have food and coal, and we have the mass of (the) population thrown at us.\" To the Soviets, reparations were more important than boundaries, and Stalin might have given up on the Poles if they had not so vociferously protested when, in spite of his 'illness', he consulted with them during the evening of July 29.\n\nWith German communities living within the pre-war borders of Poland, there was an expressed fear of disloyalty of Germans in Eastern Upper Silesia and Pomerelia, based on wartime German activities. As Germany invaded Poland, the German minority engaged in mass murder, rapes and plunder of Polish citizens, in addition to making lists of people that were to be sent to German concentration camps. Poles wanted to avoid such events in the future and as a result, Polish exile authorities proposed a population transfer of Germans as early as 1941.\n\nIn 1941, Władysław Sikorski of the Polish government-in-exile insisted on driving \"the German horde (...) back far [westward]\", while in 1942 memoranda he expressed concern about Poland acquiring Lower Silesia, populated with \"fanatically anti-Polish Germans\". Yet as the war went on, Lower Silesia also became a Polish war aim, as well as occupation of the Baltic coast west of Szczecin as far as Rostock and occupation of the Kiel Canal. Expulsions of Germans from East Prussia and pre-war Poland had become a war aim as early as in February 1940, expressed by Polish Foreign Minister August Zaleski.\n\nAfter Sikorski's death, the next Polish Prime Minister Stanisław Mikołajczyk in a letter to Roosevelt expressed his concerns about the idea of compensating Poland in the west. However, pressed by Churchill, he was forced to accept the Tehran decision, which was the direct cause of his resignation from his post.\nThe next Polish Prime Minister, Tomasz Arciszewski claimed that Poland did not \"want neither Breslau nor Stettin\".\n\nAlthough the Polish government-in-exile was recognised by the Allies at that time, the Soviet Union broke off all diplomatic relations with it in April 1943 after Polish government demanded the investigation of the Katyn massacre. On April 20, 1944, in Moscow, the Soviet sponsored Polish Communist cell founded the Polish Committee of National Liberation (PKWN) on Stalin's initiative. Just one week later the representatives of the PKWN and the Soviet Union signed a treaty regulating the new Polish-Soviet border. A year later, before the Potsdam Conference, the western Allies followed Stalin, recognized the Soviet-sponsored government, which accepted the shift of the borders westwards, and withdrew their recognition for the Polish government-in-exile. Poles were classified as sub-humans (untermenschen) by the Nazis, with their ultimate fate being slavery and extermination, while Germans occupied position of privileged \"ubermenschen\" that were to rule over Poles and other nations; when Stanisław Mikołajczyk joined the \"Government of National Unity\" as a deputy prime minister in 1945, he justified the expulsions of Germans by national terms following communist Władysław Gomułka, but also as a revolutionary act, freeing the Poles of exploitation by a German middle and upper class.\n\nIn general the Polish historiography views the expulsion of Germans as justified and correct, even when describing it as a \"lesser evil\".\n\nAfter the Red Army had advanced into the eastern parts of post-war Poland in the Lublin–Brest Offensive, launched on 18 July 1944, Soviet spearheads first reached eastern German territory on 4 August 1944 at northeastern East Prussia and Memelland, causing a first wave of refugees.\nWith the Soviet Vistula–Oder Offensive, launched on 12 January 1945, and the parallel East Prussian Offensive launched on 13 January 1945, Soviet gains of pre-war German and annexed Polish territory became permanent. With the subsequent East Pomeranian, Lower Silesian and Upper Silesian Offensives in February and March, the Red Army seized control of virtually all territories east of the Oder river. Wehrmacht counter-offensives like Operation Solstice and Operation Gemse were repelled, and only shrinking pockets like Breslau, Danzig, Heiligenbeil, Hela, Kolberg, Königsberg, and Pillau remained German controlled. Soviet soldiers committed reprisal rapes and other crimes In most cases, implementation of the evacuation plans was delayed until Soviet and Allied forces had defeated the German forces and advanced into the areas to be evacuated. The responsibility for leaving millions of Germans in these vulnerable areas until combat conditions overwhelmed them can be attributed directly to the draconian measures taken by the German authorities against anyone even suspected of 'defeatist' attitudes [as evacuation was considered] and the fanaticism of many Nazi functionaries in their execution of Hitler's 'no retreat' orders. Hitler and his staff refused to accept Soviet military superiority. Hitler called the Red Army \"gleaned punks\" and \"booty divisions\", who were not able to win decisive battles. Himmler called the preparation of the early 1945 Soviet offensive \"the biggest bluff since Dshingis Khan\".\n\nThe first mass movement of German civilians in the eastern territories was composed of both spontaneous flight and organized evacuation, starting in the summer of 1944 and continuing through the early spring of 1945. Conditions turned chaotic in the winter, when miles-long queues of refugees pushed their carts through the snow trying to stay ahead of the Red Army. From the Baltic coast, thousands were evacuated by ship in Operation Hannibal. Since February 11, refugees were shipped not only to German ports, but also to German occupied Denmark, based on an order issued by Hitler on 4 February. Of 1,180 ships participating in the evacuation, 135 were lost due to bombs, mines, and torpedoes, an estimated 20,000 died. Between 23 January 1945 and the end of the war, 2,204,477 people, 1,335,585 of them civilians, were transported via the Baltic Sea, up to 250,000 of them to occupied Denmark.\n\nMost of the evacuation efforts commenced in January 1945, when Soviet forces were already at the eastern border of Germany. About six million Germans had fled or were evacuated from the areas east of the Oder–Neisse line before Soviet and the attached Polish Army took control of the region. Refugee treks and ships which came into reach of the advancing Soviets suffered high casualties when targeted by low-flying aircraft, torpedoes, or were rolled over by tanks. The most infamous incidents during the flight and expulsion from the territory of later Poland include the sinking of the military transport ship \"Wilhelm Gustloff\" by a Soviet submarine with a death toll of some 9,000 people; the USAF bombing of refugee-crowded Swinemünde on 12 March 1945 killing an estimated 23,000 to 25,000; the desperate conditions under which refugees crossed the frozen Vistula Lagoon, where thousands broke in, froze to death, or were killed by Soviet aircraft; and the poorly organized evacuation and ultimate sacrifice of refugee-crowded Breslau by the local German Nazi authorities headed by gaulaiter Karl Hanke. The Polish historians and maintain that civilian deaths in the flight and evacuation were \"between 600,000 and 1.2 million. The main causes of death were cold, stress, and bombing\".\n\nThe Nazi German Ministry for Inner Affairs passed a decree on 14 March 1945 allowing abortion to women raped by Soviet soldiers.\n\nMany refugees tried to return home when the fighting in their homelands ended. Before June 1, 1945, some 400,000 crossed back over the Oder and Neisse rivers eastward, before Soviet and Polish communist authorities closed the river crossings; another 800,000 entered Silesia from Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe Polish courier Jan Karski warned US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt of the possibility of Polish reprisals, describing them as \"unavoidable\" and \"an encouragement for all the Germans in Poland to go west, to Germany proper, where they belong\".\n\nOn February 6, 1945, Soviet NKVD ordered mobilisation of all German men (17 to 50 years old) in the Soviet-controlled territories. Many of them were then transported to the Soviet Union for forced labour. In the former German territories the Soviet authorities did not always distinguish between the Poles and Germans and often treated them alike. German civilians were also held as \"reparations labor\" by the USSR. Data from the Russian archives published in 2001, based on an actual enumeration, put the number of German civilians deported from Poland to the USSR in early 1945 for reparations labor at 155,262 where 37% (57,586) died. However, the West German Red Cross estimated in 1964 that 233,000 German civilians were deported to the USSR from Poland as forced laborers where 45% (105,000) were dead or missing. The West German Red Cross also estimated 110,000 German civilians were held as forced labor in Kaliningrad Oblast where 50,000 were dead or missing. The Soviets also deported from Poland 7,448 Poles of the Armia Krajowa, Soviet records indicated 506 of the Poles died in captivity. Tomasz Kamusella maintains that in early 1945, some 165,000 Germans were transported to the Soviet Union, where most perished. According to Gerhardt Reichling, 520,000 German civilians from the Oder-Neisse region were conscripted for forced labor by both the USSR and Poland, he maintains that 206,000 perished.\n\nEthnic German citizens from pre-war Poland, who collaborated with the German occupiers, were considered \"traitors of the nation\" and sentenced to forced labor. In territories that belonged to Poland before the war, Germans were treated even more harshly than in the former German territories. Deprived of any citizen rights, many were used as forced labor prior to their expulsion, sometimes for years, in labor battalions or in labour camps. The major camps were at Glatz, Mielęcin, Gronów, Sikawa, Central Labour Camp Jaworzno, Central Labour Camp Potulice, Łambinowice (run by Czesław Gęborski), Zgoda labour camp and others. When Gęborski was tried by the Polish authorities in 1959 for his wanton brutality, he stated his only goal was to exact revenge for his own treatment during the war. The German Federal Archives estimated in 1974 that more than 200,000 German civilians were interned in Polish camps, they put the death rate at 20-50% and estimated that \"more than likely over 60,000 persons perished\". The Polish historians and maintain that the internment \" \"resulted in numerous deaths, which cannot be accurately determined because of lack of statistics or falsification . Periodically, they could be 10% of inmates. Those interned are estimated at 200-250,000 Germans and the local population, and deaths might range from 15,000 to 60,000 persons.\" \" Norman Naimark cited Zygmunt Woźniczka as maintaining \"that the death toll in all camps was between twenty and fifty percent of the inmates.\"\n\nZayas states that \"in many internment camps no relief from outside was permitted. In some camps relatives would bring packages and deliver them to the Polish guards, who regularly plundered the contents and delivered only the remains, if any. Frequently, these relatives were so ill-treated that they never returned. Internees who came to claim their packages were also mistreated by the guards, who insisted the internees should speak Polish, even if they were Germans born in German-speaking Silesia or Pomerania.\"\n\nAmong the interned were also German POWs. Up to 10% of the 700,000 to 800,000 POWs of the respective battlegrounds were handed over to the Poles by the Soviet military for the use of their work force. POW labor was employed on the reconstruction of Warsaw and revival of industrial, agricultural and other productive enterprises Their number in 1946 was 40,000 according to the Polish administration, of whom 30,000 were used as miners in the Upper Silesian coal industries. 7,500 Germans alleged of crimes against Poles were handed over to Poland by the Western Allies in 1946 and 1947. A number of German war criminals were imprisoned in Polish jails, at least 8,000 remained in jail in 1949, many of them also being POWs. (see also Supreme National Tribunal) Some Nazi criminals were executed (), some died in prisons (Erich Koch in 1986), Johann Kremer was released in 1958 and returned to Germany.\n\nIn 1945, the territories east of the Oder-Neisse line (Silesia, most of Pomerania, East Brandenburg and East Prussia) were occupied by Soviet and Soviet-controlled Polish military forces. Polish militia and military started expulsions before the Potsdam Conference, referred to as \"wild expulsions\" (), affecting between 700,000 and 800,000 Germans. The Polish communists ordered the expulsion of Germans: \"We must expel all the Germans because countries are built on national lines and not on multi-national ones\" was demanded by participants of a Plenum of the Central Committee of the Polish Workers Party on May 20–21, 1945. On the same Plenum, the head of the Central Committee, Władysław Gomułka, ordered: \"There has to be a border patrol at the border [Oder-Neisse line] and the Germans have to be driven out. The main objective has to be the cleansing of the terrain of Germans, the building of a nation state\". To ensure the Oder–Neisse line would be accepted as the new Polish border at a future Allied Conference (Potsdam Conference), up to 300,000 Germans living close to the rivers' eastern bank were expelled subsequently. On May 26, 1945, the Central Committee ordered all Germans to be expelled within one year and the area settled with some 3.5 million ethnic Poles; 2.5 million of them were already re-settled by summer.\n\nGermans were defined as either Reichsdeutsche or Volksdeutsche resembling the 1st or 2nd category in the Nazis' Volksliste, people who had signed a lower category were allowed to apply for \"verification\", that was to determine whether they would be granted Polish citizenship as \"autochtones\".\n\nBefore June 1, 1945, some 400,000 Germans managed to cross the Oder and Neisse rivers eastward before Polish authorities closed the river crossings, another 800,000 entered Silesia from Czechoslovakia, bringing up Silesia's population to 50% of the pre-war level. This led to the odd situation of treks of Germans moving about in all directions, to the east as well as to the west, each warning the others of what would await them at their destination\n\nAfter the Potsdam Conference, Poland was officially in charge of the territories east of the Oder–Neisse line. Despite the fact that article 8 of Potsdam agreement from August 2, 1945 stated that \"population transfer\" should be performed in ordered and humane manner, and should not commence until after the creation of an expulsion plan approved by the Allied Control Council, the expulsions continued without rules and were associated with many criminal acts.\n\nWhile the Polish administration had set up a State Repatriation Office (\"Państwowy Urząd Repatriacyjny, PUR\"), the bureau and its administrative subunits proved ineffective due to quarrels between Communists and opposition and a lack of equipment for the giant task of expelling Germans and resettling Poles in an area devastated by war. Furthermore, rivalry occurred between the Soviet occupation forces and the newly installed Polish administration, a phenomenon dubbed \"dwuwladza\" (double administration). The Soviets kept trains and German workmen regardless of the Polish ambitions and plans.\n\nThe waves of expulsions after the Potsdam conference must also be seen in the context of the contemporary, likewise unorganized, resettling of displaced or homeless Poles. Polish settlers, who themselves had been expelled from areas east of the Curzon Line, arrived with about nothing, putting an even higher pressure on the remaining Germans to leave. For the Germans, the Potsdam Agreement eased conditions only in one way - because now the Poles were more confident in keeping the former eastern territories of Germany, the expulsions were performed with less haste, which meant the Germans were duly informed about their expulsions earlier and were allowed to carry some luggage.\n\nAnother problem the Germans and, to a lesser extent, even the newly arrived Poles were facing was an enormous crime wave, most notably theft and rape, committed by gangs not only consisting of regular criminals but also Soviet soldiers, deserters or former forced laborers (Ost-Arbeiter), coming back from the west. In Upper Silesia, a party official, complained about some Polish security forces and militia raping and pillaging the German population and a general loss of sense for right and wrong. Much abuse also came from large Soviet contingents stationed in Poland after the war. A high number of crimes committed by regular Soviet soldiers - on both Germans and Poles - had been reported (see Rape during the liberation of Poland). A high death toll among the few Polish officials who dared to investigate these cases followed. Yet, Soviet troops played an ambiguous role, as there are also cases where Soviets freed local Germans imprisoned by Poles, or delayed expulsions to keep German workforce, for example on farms providing Soviet troops (for instance in Słupsk).\n\nThe damaged infrastructure and quarrels between the Allied authorities in the occupation zones of Germany and the Polish administration caused long delays in the transport of expellees, who were first ordered to gather at one of the various PUR transportation centers or internment camps and then often forced to wait in ill-equipped barracks, exposed both to criminals, aggressive guards and the cold and not supplied sufficiently with food due to the overall shortages. The \"organized transfer\" as agreed at the Potsdam Conference began in early 1946. Conditions for expellees improved, yet due to the lack of heating facilities, the cold winters of both 1945/46 and 1946/47 continued to claim many lives. On September 13, 1946 President Bierut signed a decree on \"the exclusion of persons of German nationality from the Polish National Community\" The major evictions were completed in 1946, although another 500,000 Germans arrived in the Soviet Zone from Poland in 1947. An unknown number remained; a small German minority continues to reside in Upper Silesia and Masuria.\n\nClose to three million residents of Masuria (Masurs), Pomerania (Kashubians) and Upper Silesia (Silesians) were considered of Slavic descent but many of them did not identify with Polish nationality, were either bilingual or spoke German only. The Polish government declared these so-called \"Autochthons\" to be Germanized Poles, who would be re-Slavicized and serve as a proof of a continual Polish settlement. The Polish government aimed to retain as many \"autochthons\" as possible, as they were needed both for economic reasons and also for propaganda purposes, as their presence on former German soil was used to indicate an intrinsic \"Polishness\" character of the area and justify its incorporation into the Polish state as \"Recovered Territories\". \"Verification\" and \"national rehabilitation\" processes were set up to reveal a \"dormant Polishness\" and to determine which were redeemable as Polish citizens; few were actually expelled.\n\nThe verification procedure varied in different territories and was changed several times. Initially, the applicants had to prove their past membership in a Polish minority organization of the German Reich, and in addition needed a warrant where three Polish locals testified their Polishness. In April 1945, the Upper Silesian voivode declared the fulfillment of only one of these requirements to be sufficient. In the areas like Lower Silesia and province of Pomerania, where the Polish authorities suspected only Germans, verification was handled much more strictly than in the former German-Polish borderlands In Masuria a Polish last name or a Polish-speaking ancestor was sufficient. Of the 1,104,134 \"verified autochtones\" in the census of 1950, close to 900,000 were natives of Upper Silesia and Masuria.\n\nThe word \"autochton\", introduced by the Polish government in 1945 for propaganda purposes, is today sometimes considered an offensive remark and direct naming as Kashubians, Silesians and Masurians is preferred to avoid offending the people described.\n\nDuring the war the population of the annexed areas of Poland was classified by the Nazis in different categories according to their \"Germanness\" in the Deutsche Volksliste. While most of the Volksdeutsche population of pre-war Poland fled or was expelled, some were rehabilitated and offered their pre-war Polish citizenship back. While those who had signed \"Volksliste\" category \"I\" were expelled, rehabilitation was offered to people who had been subject to forced labour before, spoke Polish and were rated as not constituting a threat. Once granted Polish citizenship, they were encouraged to Polonize their names, or to restore their original Polish names if they had been Germanized during the war. Numbers of how many were offered to stay in Poland as Poles and eventually did are not available, but it is assumed that the vast majority had rather opted and left for Germany by 1960. Those of mixed descent from within or without the borders of pre-war Poland were also allowed to stay on the premise of Polonization, yet likewise no comprehensive data exists.\n\nSome Germans were exempted from expulsion and retained because of their professional skills, if no Pole was at hand to replace them. These Germans were treated as second class citizens, especially regarding salary and food supply. So-called \"abandoned wives\", whose husbands found themselves in post-war Germany and were not able to return, were compelled to \"seek divorce\" and were not allowed to leave for Germany before 1950–52. The other ones retained were not allowed to leave before 1956; these measures also included the families of the retainees or the parts thereof remaining with them. About 250,000 had been issued East German passports in the 1950s, ending their former statelessness. Many were concentrated in the areas of Wrocław (former Breslau) Wałbrzych (former Waldenburg), and Legnica (former Liegnitz), all in Lower Silesia, and in Koszalin (former Köslin) in Pomerania. How many actually left is uncertain, though it is generally assumed that the majority emigrated. The German society of Wałbrzych has maintained a continuous existence since 1957.\n\nPeople from all over Poland moved in to replace the former German population in a process parallel to the expulsions. While the Germans were interned and expelled, up to 5 million settlers were either attracted or forced to settle the area. The settlers can be grouped according to their background:\n\nAfter 1 January 1948, Germans were primarily shipped to the Soviet occupation zone (after 3 October 1949, the German Democratic Republic), based on a Polish-Soviet agreement. Most Germans had been expelled by the end of 1947. In entire 1948, a relatively small number of 42,700 were expelled, and another 34,100 in 1949. In 1950, 59,433 Germans were expelled following a bi-lateral agreement between the People's Republic of Poland and the German Democratic Republic (GDR), 26,196 of whom however headed for West Germany. Between October 1948 and December 1950 all 35,000 German prisoners of war detained in Poland were shipped to Germany.\n\nOn 10 March 1951, the Polish \"Bureau for Repatriation\" (PUR) was disbanded; all further resettlement from Poland to Germany was carried out in a non-forcible and peaceful manner by the Polish state travel agency Orbis.\n\nAccording to the Polish census of 1946, there were still 2,036,400 Germans in the \"Recovered Territories\", 251,900 in the pre-war Polish territories (primarily eastern Upper Silesia, Pomerelia and Greater Poland) and the former Free City of Danzig, and 417,000 in the process of \"verification\" as \"new\" Poles. The census data did not include former German citizens already \"verified\" as ethnic Poles, Germans in forced labor or detention camps and otherwise detained Germans, and Germans employed by the Soviet administration.\n\nAccording to S. Banasiak, 3,109,900 Germans were expelled to the Soviet and British occupation zones in Germany and thereby registered by Polish officials between 1945 and 1950. Registration by Polish officials was not exhaustive, especially in 1945. An unknown number left without formal registration or was expelled by Soviet military authorities without notifying by Polish officials responsible for statistics. Also, especially in 1945, many Germans returned to their former homes and some were expelled more than once.\n\nTomasz Kamusella cites estimates of 7 million expelled during both \"wild\" and \"legal\" expulsions from the \"Recovered Territories\" (\"Deutsche Ostgebiete\") until 1948. The number is based on 1946 census in which citizens were asked specifically if they were Polish or German. The expelled included German autochthons stripped of Polish citizenship and additional 700,000 members of the German minority from areas of pre-war Poland. Kamusella states that about 5 million had fled from the former eastern territories of Germany, and 500,000 from pre-war Poland in 1944 and 1945, that another 3.325 million were expelled from the former German territories in 1946–1948 (3 million from Czechoslovakia, and 250,000 from Hungary), emphasizing these numbers are not exhaustive.\n\nOvery cites approximate totals of those evacuated, migrated, or expelled between 1944–1950 from East Prussia: 1.4 million to Western Germany, 609,000 to Eastern Germany; from West Prussia: 230,000 to Western Germany, 61,000 to Eastern Germany; from the former German area East of the Oder-Neisse: 3.2 million to Western Germany, 2 million to Eastern Germany.\n\nAccording to Kacowicz, about 3.5 million people had fled before the organized expulsions began, mainly driven by fear of the advancing Soviet Army, between seven hundred and eight hundred thousand Germans were affected by the \"wild\" expulsions, and another three millions were expelled in 1946 and 1947.\n\nIn Communist Poland, the expulsions were not to be questioned, and ideologically defended by propaganda. The expulsions were perceived by many Poles as just with respect to the former Nazi policies, injustices were balanced off with the injustices during the contemporary \"repatriation\" of Poles. Except for the use in official anti-German propaganda, the expulsions became a taboo in Polish politics, public, and education for decades. German expellee organizations who did not accept the post-war territorial and population changes fueled Communist propaganda dismissing them as far-right revanchists.\n\nIn the first years after the war, the bishop of Katowice Stanisław Adamski criticized the expulsion of Germans as inhumane.\n\nAccording to Philipp Ther, pre-1989 Polish historiography has in general either underestimated or concealed the role of force during the expulsions. Ther says that this was caused on the one hand by censorship, and on the other hand by the interpretation of the registration forms the expellees had signed as acquiescence to \"voluntary emigration\".\n\nThe Polish role in the expulsions could not be contemplated in Poland until the end of the Cold War.\n\nIn the Polish–German border and neighborhood treaties of 1990 and 1991, the term \"expulsion\" for the first time replaced the old and euphemistic Communist term \"resettlement\" or the Potsdam term \"population transfer\", which were used by Polish officials before. Though \"\"Wypędzenie\", the Polish term for \"expulsion\"\", is since widely used officially, in regular linguistic practice it is still an emotionally loaded term, not as it were, something that is being acknowledged, and closely attached to the question of \"right\" or \"wrong\". Polish and joint German-Polish scholarly research and public debates in Poland were now concerned with issues like moral examination of the expulsions, responsibility for the inflicted suffering, terminology, numbers, and whether the expellee's status was that of a political subject or object.\n\nIn 1995, Polish foreign minister Władysław Bartoszewski expressed regret for innocent German suffering before German parliament and federative council. In 1996, Polish public opinion research institute CBOS polled public opinion about a phrase in the letter of reconciliation the Polish bishops wrote in 1965: \"We forgive and ask for forgiveness\": 28% agreed; 45% agreed with the offering of forgiveness, but rejected the part that asked for forgiveness; 22% disagreed altogether.\n\nIn addition, anxiety is growing in Poland about the legal and moral claim to Poland's post-war territorial gains. The legal aspects have been investigated by various international law experts coming to different conclusions, prompting both Germany and Poland to employ a joint expert team that gave an overall negative answer to chances for such legal challenges. Polish government made some efforts to sue Germany for damages inflicted on Poland during World War II in return. The advancing German project of erecting a Centre Against Expulsions depicting the fate of 20th-century European expellees (mostly, but not only, German) is controversially discussed in Poland, and was described by former Polish Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński as \"equating the victims with the persecutors\". The Polish reaction was severely criticized in Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "803132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803132", "title": "Four Evangelists", "text": "Four Evangelists\n\nIn Christian tradition, the Four Evangelists are Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the authors attributed with the creation of the four Gospel accounts in the New Testament that bear the following titles: Gospel according to Matthew; Gospel according to Mark; Gospel according to Luke and Gospel according to John.\n\nThe gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke are known as the Synoptic Gospels, because they include many of the same stories, often in the same sequence. While the periods to which the gospels are usually dated suggest otherwise, convention traditionally holds that the authors were two of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus, John and Matthew, as well as two \"apostolic men,\" Mark and Luke:\n\nThey are called evangelists, a word meaning \"people who proclaim good news,\" because their books aim to tell the \"good news\" (\"gospel\") of Jesus.\n\nIn iconography, the evangelists often appear in Evangelist portraits derived from classical tradition, and are also frequently represented by the symbols which originate from the four \"living creatures\" that draw the throne-chariot of God, the Merkabah, in the vision in the Book of Ezekiel (Chapter 1) reflected in the Book of Revelation (4.6-9ff), though neither source links the creatures to the Evangelists. Images normally, but not invariably, appear with wings like angels. When the symbols of the Four Evangelists appear together, it is called a Tetramorph, and is common in the Romanesque art of Europe, in church frescoes or mural paintings, for instance.\n\nEnglish trans. of 3rd edn, \n\nThe meanings accruing to the symbols grew over centuries, with an early formulation by Jerome, and were fully expressed by Rabanus Maurus, who set out three layers of meaning for the beasts, as representing firstly the Evangelists, secondly the nature of Christ, and thirdly the virtues required of a Christian for salvation: These animals may have originally been seen as representing the highest forms of the various types of animals, i.e., man, the king of creation as the image of the creator; the lion as the king of beasts of prey (meat-eating); the ox as the king of domesticated animals (grass-eating) and the eagle as the king of the birds.\n\n\n\n\n\nEach of the symbols is depicted with wings, following the biblical sources first in Ezekiel 1–2, and in Revelation. The symbols are shown with, or in place of, the Evangelists in early medieval Gospel Books, and are the usual accompaniment to Christ in Majesty when portrayed during the same period, reflecting the vision in Revelation. They were presented as one of the most common motifs found on church portals and apses, as well as many other locations.\n\nWhen surrounding Christ, the figure of the man usually appears at top left – above Christ's right hand, with the lion above Christ's left arm. Underneath the man is the ox and underneath the lion is the eagle. This both reflects the medieval idea of the order of \"nobility\" of nature of the beasts (man, lion, ox, eagle) and the text of Ezekiel 1.10. From the thirteenth century their use began to decline, as a new conception of \"Christ in Majesty\", showing the wounds of the Passion, came into use. Sometimes in Evangelist portraits they appear to dictate to the writing evangelist.\n\nMatthew is often cited as the \"first Gospel account,\" not only owing to its place in the canon, but also in view of the patristic witness to this effect. Most biblical scholars however, see the gospel account of Mark as having been written first (see Markan priority) and John's gospel account as having been written last.\n\nIt has become customary to speak of \"the Gospel of Matthew\" ... \"the Gospel of John\", not least because it is shorter and rolls much more smoothly off the tongue; but it is worth noting that the ancient titles do not use the genitive of possession, but the preposition \"according to\", signifying that each evangelist sets forth the one \"Gospel of God\" according to his own capacity, but not in the sense of creating his own story.\n\nThe same iconography of the Angel, the Lion, the Bull and the Eagle is used extensively in Freemasonry and is clearly displayed on the coat of arms of the United Grand lodge of England amongst others. In Masonic circles it is used to represent the Four Seasons - Lion (Leo - Summer), Bull (Taurus - Spring), Angel (Aquarius - Winter) and Eagle (Scorpio - Autumn).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54153458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54153458", "title": "Francisco Pantaleón Luna", "text": "Francisco Pantaleón Luna\n\nFrancisco Pantaleón Luna (c.1770-1814) was an officer of the Argentine army and politician, who served as Lieutenant Governor and Commander of Arms of La Rioja Province, Argentina in 1811. \n\nLuna was born in La Rioja (Argentina), son of a traditional Argentinean family. He had an outstanding political performance in his native province, being military chief and lieutenant governor until 1814. Later he was appointed by Gervasio Posadas to occupy the government of Catamarca Province, without being able to assume the position by a serious illness. \n\nFrancisco Pantaleón Luna was married to Francisca Javalera, parents of Carmen Luna, who was married on May 25, 1832 in Buenos Aires with José María Canaveris, son of José Canaveris and Agustina Denis, belonging to a patrician family of the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "162742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162742", "title": "Friedrich Hölderlin", "text": "Friedrich Hölderlin\n\nJohann Christian Friedrich Hölderlin (, ; ; 20 March 1770 – 7 June 1843) was a German poet and philosopher. Described by Norbert von Hellingrath as \"the most German of Germans\", Hölderlin was a key figure of German Romanticism. Particularly due to his early association with and philosophical influence on Hegel and Schelling, he was also an important thinker in the development of German Idealism.\n\nBorn in Lauffen am Neckar, Hölderlin's childhood was marked by bereavement. His mother intended for him to enter the Lutheran ministry, and he attended the Tübinger Stift, where he was friends with Hegel and Schelling. He graduated in 1793 but could not devote himself to the Christian faith, instead becoming a tutor. Two years later, he briefly attended the University of Jena, where he interacted with Fichte and Novalis, before resuming his career as a tutor. He struggled to establish himself as a poet, and was plagued by mental illness. He was sent to a clinic in 1805 but deemed incurable and instead given lodging by a carpenter, Ernst Zimmer. He spent the final 36 years of his life in Zimmer's residence, and died in 1843 at the age of 73.\n\nHölderlin followed the tradition of Goethe and Schiller as an admirer of Greek mythology and Ancient Greek poets such as Pindar and Sophocles, and melded Christian and Hellenic themes in his works. Martin Heidegger, whom Hölderlin had a great influence on, said: \"Hölderlin is one of our greatest, that is, most impending thinkers because he is our greatest poet. The poetic understanding of his poetry is possible only as a philosophical confrontation with the manifestation of being achieved in his work.\"\n\nJohann Christian Friedrich Hölderlin was born on 20 March 1770 in Lauffen am Neckar, then a part of the Duchy of Württemberg. He was the first child of Johanna Christiana Heyn and Heinrich Friedrich Hölderlin. His father, the manager of a church estate, died when he was two years old, and Friedrich and his sister, Heinrike, were brought up by their mother.\n\nIn 1774, his mother moved the family to Nürtingen when she married Johann Christoph Gok. Two years later, Johann Gok became the burgomaster of Nürtingen, and Hölderlin's half-brother, Karl Christoph Friedrich Gok, was born. In 1779, Johann Gok died at the age of 30. Hölderlin later expressed how his childhood was scarred by grief and sorrow, writing in a 1799 correspondence with his mother:\n\nHölderlin began his education in 1776, and his mother planned for him to join the Lutheran church. In preparation for entrance exams into a monastery, he received additional instruction in Greek, Hebrew, Latin and rhetoric, starting in 1782. During this time, he struck a friendship with Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, who was five years Hölderlin's junior. On account of the age difference, Schelling was \"subjected to universal teasing\" and Hölderlin protected him from abuse by older students. Also during this time, Hölderlin began playing the piano and developed an interest in travel literature through exposure to Georg Forster's \"A Voyage Round the World\".\n\nIn 1784, Hölderlin entered the Lower Monastery in Denkendorf and started his formal training for entry into the Lutheran ministry. At Denkendotf, he discovered the poetry of Friedrich Schiller and Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock, and took tentative steps in composing his own verses. The earliest known letter of Hölderlin's is dated 1784 and addressed to his former tutor Nathanael Köstlin. In the letter, Hölderlin hinted at his wavering faith in Christianity and anxiety about his mental state.\n\nHölderlin progressed to the Higher Monastery at Maulbronn in 1786. There he fell in love with Luise Nast, the daughter of the monastery's administrator, and began to doubt his desire to join the ministry; he composed \"Mein Vorsatz\" in 1787, in which he states his intention to attain \"Pindar's light\" and reach \"Klopstock-heights\". In 1788, he read Schiller's \"Don Carlos\" on Luise Nast's recommendation. Hölderlin later wrote a letter to Schiller regarding \"Don Carlos\", stating: \"It won't be easy to study \"Carlos\" in a rational way, since he was for so many years the magic cloud in which the good god of my youth enveloped me so that I would not see too soon the pettiness and barbarity of the world.\"\nIn October 1788, Hölderlin began his theological studies at the Tübinger Stift, where his fellow students included Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Isaac von Sinclair and Schelling. It has been speculated that it was Hölderlin who, during their time in Tübingen, brought to Hegel's attention the ideas of Heraclitus regarding the unity of opposites, which Hegel would later develop into his concept of dialectics. In 1789, Hölderlin broke off his engagement with Luise Nast, writing to her: \"I wish you happiness if you choose one more worthy than me, and then surely you will understand that you could never have been happy with your morose, ill-humoured, and sickly friend,\" and expressed his desire to transfer out and study law but succumbed to pressure from his mother to remain in the Stift.\n\nAlong with Hegel and Schelling and his other peers during his time in the Stift, Hölderlin was an enthusiastic supporter of the French Revolution. Although he rejected the violence of the Reign of Terror, his commitment to the principles of 1789 remained intense. Hölderlin's republican sympathies influenced many of his most famous works such as \"Hyperion\" and \"The Death of Empedocles\". \n\nAfter obtaining his magister degree in 1793, his mother expected him to enter the ministry. However, Hölderlin found no satisfaction in the prevailing Protestant theology, and worked instead as a private tutor. In 1794, he met Friedrich Schiller and Johann Wolfgang Goethe and began writing his epistolary novel \"Hyperion\". In 1795 he enrolled for a while at the University of Jena where he attended Johann Gottlieb Fichte's classes and met Novalis.\n\nThere is a seminal manuscript, dated 1797, now known as the \"Das älteste Systemprogramm des deutschen Idealismus\" (\"The Oldest Systematic Program of German Idealism\"). Although the document is in Hegel's handwriting, it is thought to have been written by either Hegel, Schelling, Hölderlin, or an unknown fourth person.\n\nAs a tutor in Frankfurt am Main from 1796 to 1798 he fell in love with Susette Gontard, the wife of his employer, the banker Jakob Gontard. The feeling was mutual, and this relationship became the most important in Hölderlin's life. After a while, their affair was discovered, and Hölderlin was harshly dismissed. He then lived in Homburg from 1798 to 1800, meeting Susette in secret once a month and attempting to establish himself as a poet, but his life was plagued by financial worries and he had to accept a small allowance from his mother. His mandated separation from Susette Gontard also worsened Hölderlin's doubts about himself and his value as a poet; he wished to transform German culture but did not have the influence he needed. From 1797 to 1800, he produced three versions—all unfinished—of a tragedy in the Greek manner, \"The Death of Empedocles\", and composed odes in the vein of the Ancient Greeks Alcaeus and Asclepiades of Samos.\n\nIn the late 1790s, Hölderlin was diagnosed as suffering from schizophrenia, then referred to as \"hypochondrias\", a condition that would worsen after his last meeting with Susette Gontard in 1800. After a sojourn in Stuttgart at the end of 1800, likely to work on his translations of Pindar, he found further employment as a tutor in Hauptwyl, Switzerland and then at the household of the Hamburg consul in Bordeaux, in 1802. His stay in the French city is celebrated in \"Andenken\" (\"Remembrance\"), one of his greatest poems. In a few months, however, he returned home on foot via Paris (where he saw authentic Greek sculptures, as opposed to Roman or modern copies, for the only time in his life). He arrived at his home in Nürtingen both physically and mentally exhausted in late 1802, and learned that Susette Gontard had died from influenza in Frankfurt at around the same time.\n\nAt his home in Nürtingen with his mother, a devout Christian, Hölderlin melded his Hellenism with Christianity and sought to unite ancient values with modern life; in Hölderlin's elegy \"Brod und Wein\" (\"Bread and Wine\"), Christ is seen as sequential to the Greek gods, bringing bread from the earth and wine from Dionysus. After two years in Nürtingen, Hölderlin was taken to the court of Homburg by Isaac von Sinclair, who found a sinecure for him as court librarian, but in 1805 von Sinclair was denounced as a conspirator and tried for treason. Hölderlin was in danger of being tried too but was declared mentally unfit to stand trial. On 11 September 1805, Hölderlin was delivered into the clinic at Tübingen run by Dr. Johann Heinrich Ferdinand von Autenrieth, the inventor of a mask for the prevention of screaming in the mentally ill.\nThe clinic was attached to the University of Tübingen and the poet Justinus Kerner, then a student of medicine, was assigned to look after Hölderlin. The following year Hölderlin was discharged as incurable and given three years to live, but was taken in by the carpenter Ernst Zimmer (a cultured man, who had read \"Hyperion\") and given a room in his house in Tübingen, which had been a tower in the old city wall with a view across the Neckar river. The tower would later be named the Hölderlinturm, after the poet's 36-year-long stay in the room. His residence in the building made up the second half of his life and is also referred to as the \"Turmzeit\" (or \"Tower period\"). \n\nIn the tower, Hölderlin continued to write poetry of a simplicity and formality quite unlike what he had been writing up to 1805. As time went on he became a minor tourist attraction and was visited by curious travelers and autograph-hunters. Often he would play the piano or spontaneously write short verses for such visitors, pure in versification but almost empty of affect—although a few of these (such as the famous \"Die Linien des Lebens\" (\"The Lines of Life\"), which he wrote out for his carer Zimmer on a piece of wood) have a piercing beauty and have been set to music by many composers.\n\nHölderlin's own family did not financially support him but petitioned successfully for his upkeep to be paid by the state. His mother and sister never visited him, and his stepbrother only once did so. His mother died in 1828: his sister and stepbrother quarreled over the inheritance, arguing that too large a share had been allotted to Hölderlin, and unsuccessfully tried to have the will overturned in court. Neither of them attended his funeral in 1843, nor had the friends of his childhood, Hegel and Schelling, had anything to do with him for years; the Zimmer family were his only mourners. His inheritance, including the patrimony left to him by his father when he was two, had been kept from him by his mother and was untouched and continually accruing interest. He died a rich man, but did not know it.\n\nThe poetry of Hölderlin, widely recognized today as one of the highest points of German literature, was little known or understood during his lifetime, and slipped into obscurity shortly after his death; his illness and reclusion made him fade from his contemporaries' consciousness – and, even though selections of his work were published by his friends during his lifetime, it was largely ignored for the rest of the 19th century.\nLike Goethe and Schiller, his older contemporaries, Hölderlin was a fervent admirer of ancient Greek culture, but for him the Greek gods were not the plaster figures of conventional classicism, but wonderfully life-giving actual prescenses, yet at the same time terrifying. Much later, Friedrich Nietzsche would recognize Hölderlin as the poet who first acknowledged the Orphic and Dionysian Greece of the mysteries, which he would fuse with the Pietism of his native Swabia in a highly original religious experience. Hölderlin developed an early idea of cyclical history and therefore believed political radicalism and an aesthetic interest in antiquity, and, in parallel, Christianity and Paganism should be fused. He understood and sympathised with the Greek idea of the tragic fall, which he expressed movingly in the last stanza of his \"Hyperions Schicksalslied\" (\"Hyperion's Song of Destiny\").\n\nIn the great poems of his maturity, Hölderlin would generally adopt a large-scale, expansive and unrhymed style. Together with these long hymns, odes and elegies – which included \"Der Archipelagus\" (\"The Archipelago\"), \"Brod und Wein\" (\"Bread and Wine\") and \"Patmos\" – he also cultivated a crisper, more concise manner in epigrams and couplets, and in short poems like the famous \"Hälfte des Lebens\" (\"The Middle of Life\").\n\nIn the years after his return from Bordeaux, he completed some of his greatest poems but also, once they were finished, returned to them repeatedly, creating new and stranger versions sometimes in several layers on the same manuscript, which makes the editing of his works troublesome. Some of these later versions (and some later poems) are fragmentary, but they have astonishing intensity. He seems sometimes also to have considered the fragments, even with unfinished lines and incomplete sentence-structure, to be poems in themselves. This obsessive revising and his stand-alone fragments were once considered evidence of his mental disorder, but they were to prove very influential on later poets such as Paul Celan. In his years of madness, Hölderlin would occasionally pencil ingenuous rhymed quatrains, sometimes of a childlike beauty, which he would sign with fantastic names (most often \"Scardanelli\") and give fictitious dates from previous or future centuries.\n\nHölderlin's major publication in his lifetime was his novel \"Hyperion\", which was issued in two volumes (1797 and 1799). Various individual poems were published but attracted little attention. In 1799 he produced a periodical, \"Iduna\".\n\nIn 1804, his translations of the dramas of Sophocles were published but were generally met with derision over their apparent artificiality and difficulty, which according to his critics were caused by transposing Greek idioms into German. However, 20th-century theorists of translation such as Walter Benjamin have vindicated them, showing their importance as a new—and greatly influential—model of poetic translation. \"Der Rhein\" and \"Patmos\", two of the longest and most densely charged of his hymns, appeared in a poetic calendar in 1808.\n\nWilhelm Waiblinger, who visited Hölderlin in his tower repeatedly in 1822–23 and depicted him in the protagonist of his novel \"Phaëthon\", stated the necessity of issuing an edition of his poems, and the first collection of his poetry was released by Ludwig Uhland and Christoph Theodor Schwab in 1826. However, Uhland and Schwab omitted anything they suspected might be \"touched by insanity\", which included much of Hölderlin's fragmented works. A copy of this collection was given to Hölderlin, but later was stolen by an autograph-hunter. A second, enlarged edition with a biographical essay appeared in 1842, the year before Hölderlin's death.\n\nOnly in 1913 did Norbert von Hellingrath, a member of a literary circle around poet Stefan George, publish the first two volumes of what eventually became a six-volume edition of Hölderlin's poems, prose and letters (the \"Berlin Edition\", \"Berliner Ausgabe\"). For the first time, Hölderlin's hymnic drafts and fragments were published and it became possible to gain some overview of his work in the years between 1800 and 1807, which had been only sparsely covered in earlier editions. The Berlin edition and von Hellingrath's perfervid advocacy of Hölderlin's work shifted the emphasis of appraisal from his earlier elegies to the enigmatic and grandiose later hymns.\n\nAlready in 1912, before the Berlin Edition began to appear, Rainer Maria Rilke composed his first two \"Duino Elegies\" whose form and spirit draw strongly on the hymns and elegies of Hölderlin. Rilke had met von Hellingrath a few years earlier and had seen some of the hymn drafts, and the \"Duino Elegies\" heralded the beginning of a new appreciation of Hölderlin's late work. Although his hymns can hardly be imitated, they have become a powerful influence on modern poetry in German and other languages, and are sometimes cited as the very crown of German lyric poetry.\nThe Berlin Edition was to some extent superseded by the Stuttgart Edition (\"Grosse Stuttgarter Ausgabe\"), which began to be published in 1943 and eventually saw completion in 1986. This undertaking was much more rigorous in textual criticism than the Berlin Edition and solved many issues of interpretation raised by Hölderlin's unfinished and undated texts (sometimes several versions of the same poem with major differences). Meanwhile, a third complete edition, the Frankfurt Critical Edition (\"Frankfurter Historisch-kritische Ausgabe\"), began publication in 1975 under the editorship of Dietrich Sattler.\n\nThough Hölderlin's hymnic style—dependent as it is on a genuine belief in the divine—creates a deeply personal fusion of Greek mythic figures and romantic mysticism about nature, which can appear both strange and enticing, his shorter and sometimes more fragmentary poems have exerted wide influence too on later German poets, from Georg Trakl onwards. He also had an influence on the poetry of Hermann Hesse and Paul Celan. (Celan wrote a poem about Hölderlin, called \"Tübingen, January\" which ends with the word \"Pallaksch\" — according to Schwab, Hölderlin's favourite neologism \"which sometimes meant Yes, sometimes No\".)\n\nHölderlin was also a thinker who wrote, fragmentarily, on poetic theory and philosophical matters. His theoretical works, such as the essays \"Das Werden im Vergehen\" (\"Becoming in Dissolution\") and \"Urteil und Sein\" (\"Judgement and Being\") are insightful and important if somewhat tortuous and difficult to parse. They raise many of the key problems also addressed by his Tübingen roommates Hegel and Schelling, and, though his poetry was never \"theory-driven\", the interpretation and exegesis of some of his more difficult poems has given rise to profound philosophical speculation by thinkers such as Martin Heidegger, Theodor Adorno, Jacques Derrida, Michel Foucault and Alain Badiou.\n\nHölderlin's poetry has inspired many composers, generating vocal music and instrumental music.\n\nOne of the earliest settings of Hölderlin's poetry is \"Schicksalslied\" by Johannes Brahms, based on \"Hyperions Schicksalslied\". Other composers of Hölderlin settings include Peter Cornelius, Hans Pfitzner, Richard Strauss (\"Drei Hymnen\"), Max Reger (\"An die Hoffnung\"), Alphons Diepenbrock (\"Die Nacht\"), Walter Braunfels (\"Der Tod fürs Vaterland\"), Richard Wetz (\"Hyperion\"), Josef Matthias Hauer, Hermann Reutter, Stefan Wolpe, Paul Hindemith, Benjamin Britten (\"Sechs Hölderlin-Fragmente\"), Hans Werner Henze, Bruno Maderna (\"Hyperion\", \"Stele an Diotima\"), Luigi Nono (\"Prometeo\"), Heinz Holliger (the \"Scardanelli-Zyklus\"), Hans Zender (\"Hölderlin lesen I-IV\"), György Kurtág (who planned an opera on Hölderlin), György Ligeti (\"Three Fantasies after Friedrich Hölderlin\"), Hanns Eisler (\"Hollywood Liederbuch\"), Viktor Ullmann, Wolfgang von Schweinitz, Walter Zimmermann (\"Hyperion\", an epistolary opera) and Wolfgang Rihm. Carl Orff used Hölderlin's German translations of Sophocles in his operas \"Antigone\" and \"Oedipus der Tyrann\".\n\nWilhelm Killmayer based three song cycles, \"Hölderlin-Lieder\", for tenor and orchestra on Hölderlin's late poems; Kaija Saariaho's \"Tag des Jahrs\" for mixed choir and electronics is based on four of these poems. In 2003, Graham Waterhouse composed a song cycle, \"Sechs späteste Lieder\", for voice and cello based on six of Hölderlin's late poems. Several works by Georg Friedrich Haas take their titles or text from Hölderlin's writing, including \"Hyperion\", \"Nacht\", and the solo ensemble \"... \"Einklang freier Wesen\" ...\" as well as its constituent solo pieces each named “... aus freier Lust ... verbunden ...”.\n\nThe German progressive rock band Hoelderlin is named after Hölderlin, Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium has set Hölderlin's verses to music in several of their songs, and many songs of Swedish alternative rock band ALPHA 60 also contain lyrical references to Hölderlin's poetry.\n\nRobert Schumann's late piano suite \"Gesänge der Frühe\" was inspired by Hölderlin, as was Luigi Nono's string quartet \"Fragmente-Stille, an Diotima\" and parts of his opera \"Prometeo\". Josef Matthias Hauer wrote many piano pieces inspired by individual lines of Hölderlin's poems. Paul Hindemith's \"First Piano Sonata\" is influenced by Hölderlin's poem \"Der Main\". Hans Werner Henze's Seventh Symphony is partly inspired by Hölderlin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54604889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54604889", "title": "Gang of Amazons", "text": "Gang of Amazons\n\nThe Gang of Amazons () is a family of serial killers from Stavropol, Russia, who committed a series of murders and robberies over a span of 6 years. Inessa Tarverdiyeva along with her husband Roman Podkopaev, 35, and two daughters Viktoria, 25, and Anastasiya, 13, began their murder spree in 2007, but some accounts detail offenses as far back as 1998. Their spree lasted until their apprehension in 2013.\n\nInitially, the \"Gang of Amazons\" was believed to be called such due to the predominance of women over men that composed the group, however, the name actually came about from journalists who covered the investigation of crimes committed by the family. The family has never used this name when referencing themselves. The family was only dubbed the Gang of Amazons after media discovered that a knife engraved with \"My Favorite Amazon\" that was found not too far from the Chudakov crime scene. The local media assumed that this was Inessa's knife, however, according to Igor Berezin, Deputy Head of the Investigation Department of Russia's Investigation Committee for Rostov Oblast, the knife belonged to a girl who had no affiliation with the gang or their crimes.\n\nThe family lived in a comfortable home in the village of Divnoye in Stavropol, the administrative seat of the Stavropol Krai. The family used camping trips to the Rostov Oblast as a cover to commit their crimes.\n\nRoman Podkopaev (Russian: Роман Подкопаев), 35, patriarch of the family, was a registered dentist. He was the suspect of the mysterious death of Inessa's first husband and later went on to marry Inessa.\n\nInessa Tarverdiyeva (Russian: Инесса Тарвердиева), 46, martriarch of the family was a nursery school teacher and homemaker, but gave up being a teacher for their robbery and murder business. Had a profound hatred for police after her lover, a policeman, left her for another woman.\n\nViktoria Tarverdiyeva (Russian: Виктория Тарвердиева), 25, eldest daughter from Inessa's prior union with Azerbaijani man Arzu Tarverdiyev who died under mysterious circumstances at a power grid where he worked.\n\nAnastasiya Tarverdiyeva (Russian: Анастасия Тарвердиева), 13, youngest member of the family and juvenile at the time of the murders\n\nSergei Sinelnik (Russian: Сергей Синельник), 35, husband to Anastasiya Sinelnik and brother in law of Podkopaev. Was a police officer that provided inside information to the family to aid in the commission of their crimes.\n\nAnastasiya Sinelnik (Russian: Анастасия Синельник), 26, sister of Podkopaev, denies involvement in crimes committed by her relatives, however was known to store goods stolen by the family.\n\nOn February 17, 2008, in Aksai, bandits committed the murder of Mikhail Zlydnev, head of the information security department of the State Drug Control Service, and his wife. They were shot in their home, and then finished off with knives. The killers took a doublet, a jacket, and a TV tuner from the victims' house.\n\nJuly 17, 2008 in the Aksai district on the federal highway, the gang members shot a car in which Rostovites Alexei Sazonov and Julia Vasilyeva were traveling. Sazonov was killed, and Vasilyeva was seriously wounded. The family stole a purse with a driver's license, a passport, and a woman's handbag.\n\nOn July 8, 2009, the family overpowered and shot Lieutenant Colonel Dmitry Chudakov of Nizhny Novgorod, his wife and seven-year-old son with a Saiga .410 semi-automatic rifle while they were parked on the shoulder of the road. Their 11-year-old daughter, Veronika, did not meet a similar fate and was stabbed 37 times. After the family murdered Chudakov's family, they made off with a laptop, hairdryer, and a camera, worth £950 in assets, leaving gold jewelry untouched. This became the family's most high-profile case. Alexei Serenko, from the nearby city of Aksay, was mistakenly accused of and spent two years in jail for the crime. The only evidence against him were the results of the ballistic examination. The expert of the Ministry of Justice had stated that the Chudakovs, as well as three other people in the vicinity, were killed by Serenko's carbine. Later it was shown that the findings of the examination were erroneous and Serenko was released from jail. According to media reports, the Chudakovs were killed by a gang of \"tsapkovsky\", but later attributed the crime to the \"Gang of Amazons\".\n\nIn 2010, the family partook in another murder and robbery involving two teenage girls, one of whom was supposedly Tarverdiyeva's goddaughter. The family waited for their victims to return to home, knowing they had weapons and money, but when only the family's two daughters showed up Podkopaev and Tarverdiyeva ambushed them. The girls were tortured and had their eyes gouged out before they were murdered. While Inessa admits to killing adults, she claims she never killed children stating, \"My husband shot them.\"\n\nOn March 10, 2009, in the outskirts of Novocherkassk, the family broke into a house and killed the two residents who lived there. They first shot them with the Saiga carbine, and then finished them off with a knife. The family took passports, a laptop, a camera, women's boots, a doublet, and a man's jacket.\n\nOn September 19, 2012 in Novocherkassk, the family killed 26-year-old Vladimir Mandrik and 22-year-old Vasily Camforin, two employees of a private security company who responded to alarms going off at a local dental clinic. The family took the security guard's service weapons, which included a Kalashnikov assault rifle and two pistols.\n\nOn November 29, 2012 in Novocherkassk, the family infiltrated the home of Novocherkassk resident and taxi driver Vadim Lozhkov. The man attempted to pursue them, but was killed using the guns stolen from the security guards.\n\nOn March 16, 2013 in Aksai, the family killed car inspector Nikolai Kutsekon, who left his apartment after hearing his car alarm go off. After seeing suspicious people near his car, he attempted to detain them, but was shot and killed.\n\nOn April 8, 2013 in the outskirts of Novocherkassk, the family shot at a car of grocery store employees responding to alarms that were set off at their store. The wounded driver Nikolai Korsunov survived, however his partner, Yuri Statsenko, died later on at the hospital.\n\nApril 24, 2013 in the Aksai district, the family murdered 39-year-old police lieutenant Andrei Yurin, who was going out for a late night drive. Yurin was shot at point-blank range shortly after leaving his home. The family attempted to break into the house, but the door was locked, so the family left without taking anything, saving Yurin's wife and child from his fate.\n\nOn September 8, 2013, after shooting an unnamed couple, Podkopaev and Viktoria proceeded to rob the home of a former military officer in Aksai, Rostov Oblast. After finding no money, they proceeded to steal candles and alcohol from the home as well as drumsticks from the refrigerator. Both Podkopaev and Viktoria escaped via scooter but were stopped shortly after at an ID by patrol officer Ivan Shakhovoi. Instead of showing his documents, Podkopaev pulled out his weapons and opened fire, killing Shakhovoi. Podkopaev was killed shortly after back up arrived and was shot and killed. Officer Aleksey Lagoda, who was merely wounded, was able to radio for backup. Viktoria also made it out of the gun fight alive, however, was seriously wounded. Shortly after, Inessa and Anastasiya were captured by police at a campsite where they were guarding a large cache of weapons including 20 firearms, silencer, grenades, and ammunition. Items stolen from victims were also discovered at the encampment, assisting Sledkom in linking the family to dozens of murders. The family saw their crimes like having a day at the office. Tarverdiyeva, who also confessed to hating police, stated “I am a gangster by nature.”\n\nArrested alongside the family were Podkopaev’s sister, Anastasiya Sinelnik, 26, and her husband Sergei, 31, a former policeman. It is suspected that the couple aided the family in the commission of their crimes by providing them inside information about police operations and officer movements. While Anastasiya would not openly admit to aiding and abetting the family in the commission of their crimes in court, she would not admit to her knowledge of the planning of the crimes. Her husband Sergei confessed to feeling pleased that his colleagues did not know who was committing the crimes, but that he did. The couple stored stolen goods in their home and occasionally brought jewelry to the jeweler for sale or to be melt down into new jewelry.\n\nThe journalists of \"Novaya Gazeta\" conducted their own investigation into the circumstances of the detention of the gang members and in great detail - the circumstances of the death of the family of Dmitry Chudakov, which caused a great public outcry. According to journalists, the investigative authorities once again fabricated evidence, attributing to the gang of \"Amazons\" crimes that they did not commit [6]. At a preliminary hearing in the Rostov Regional Court, Dmitry Chudakov's mother Valentina Chudakova announced the Amazon gang to murder was not involved in her son's murder and filed a motion to send the criminal case for an additional investigation.\n\nAccording to the investigators, Inessa seemed to take pride in her crimes and see herself as an admirable hero. During the interrogations, she said that she killed the police officers from personal hatred, and said, \"It is a pity that they did not kill them very much\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36003955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36003955", "title": "Gordon Novel", "text": "Gordon Novel\n\nGordon Michael Dwayne Novel (February 7, 1938 – October 3, 2012) was a private investigator and electronics expert, who was known for several controversial investigations. He was most notable for his conflict with District Attorney Jim Garrison and his work as investigator for automobile industry executive John DeLorean and U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark.\n\nNovel grew up in New Orleans living as an only child with his mother. He graduated from East Jefferson High School in 1956, spent a brief period studying engineering at Northrop Aeronautical Institute of Technology, the University of Southern California and tried motion picture directing classes at the Pasadena Playhouse. He met his former wife, Marlene Mancuso, Miss New Orleans 1958, at the Louisiana State University.\n\nIn 1960, Novel bought a dragstrip in Hammond, Louisiana, together with associate Ranny Ehlinger. Later he produced auto shows in New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Atlanta.\n\nIn February 1961 Novel was part of a group of people which took weapons from a munitions bunker in Houma, Louisiana, which was owned by the Schlumberger Company. The action was planned by Guy Banister and David Ferrie, who at the time were actively involved in the anti-communist/anti-Castro groups. According to a report in the \"New Orleans States-Item\" newspaper Banister served as a munitions supplier for the 1961 Bay of Pigs Invasion and continued to deal weapons from his office until 1963. Gus Russo has written about the existence of a letter of marque, signed by Robert F. Kennedy, who was U.S. Attorney General at the time, which supposedly gave Banister the go-ahead to \"liberate\" the weaponry. Novel had received a key to the bunker from Banister. The munitions were stored at Banister's office in Camp Street, New Orleans,( Ammunition was never stored at the offices of Mr. Banister on Camp Street in New Orleans) and at Ferrie's house. Novel claimed that the act was not illegal but had been arranged by the CIA as part of Operation Mongoose. While taking a lie detector test, Novel stated that the burglary was not a burglary at all, but a war materials pickup made at the direction of his CIA contact.\n\nIn the early 60's, Novel served as Director of Operations for the 'Bourbon Street Pavilion' at the 1964 New York World's Fair. The pavilion reportedly achieved the highest gross income of any single commercial pavilion at the fair. For this work, Novel was called an \"Entrepreneurial Prodigy & Boy Wonder\"\" in \"Variety\". From the beginning of the fair's build-up in 1963 he handled publicity at the pavilion, using the name \"G. Michael Novel\" he gave several interviews to the press. Variety magazine recognized him as being the major entertainment buyer, in charge of the pavilion's entertainment policies and originally active in obtaining backing for the venture. Owner and founder of 'Mardi Gras World', Blaine Kern, worked with Novel at both the 1964 World's Fair and the 1984 Louisiana World Exposition.\n\nAfter the world fair closed, Novel moved back to New Orleans, where he set up a business focused on electronic eavesdropping. Through his company, 'International Dynamics Corp', he manufactured and installed electronics for politicians, businessmen and diplomats. He also bought/leased a Caribbean-style restaurant/club called 'Jamaican Village Inn', which was located at 800 North Rampart Street. While Novel was in Ohio, resisting Garrison's attempt to get him extradited, two waitresses of the club were arrested and charged with violating obscenity law, for topless table-serving. The club was ordered to be padlock closed for one year by the district attorney's office. This order was withdrawn after the club owner Edward Centa agreed to end the topless attire, while the lease to Novel was ruled invalid.\n\nWithout Garrison's knowledge, Novel was directed by Walter Sheridan (Federal investigator, NBC News reporter and associate of the Kennedy family) to seek work as an operative inside Garrison's office. Willard E. Robertson (a petitioner and businessman with political connections and ally of Jim Garrison and Louisiana Governor John McKeithen, who was alleged to have lent financial support to Garrison's investigation of Clay Shaw through an organization known as \"Truth or Consequences\") recommended Novel as a \"electronics expert\" to District Attorney Jim Garrison. He was assigned to \"debug\" Garrison's offices at the corner of Tulane Avenue & S Broad Street in New Orleans.\n\nYears later, during the time an appeal in the Waco trial reached its end, a secret FBI report was released which stated that Novel worked with Garrison in attempts to fake photographic evidence to link Fidel Castro with the assassination. However, according to the final report issued by the Assassination Records Review Board, Novel came to the attention of Garrison after allegedly making claims that he was an employee of the CIA in 1963 and knew both Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby. Journalist Dick J. Reavis has stated that Novel's work at Garrison's office was \"amply documented\" and quoted Novel saying: \"I was working as Garrison's chief of security, while at the same time working for the White House to destabilize Garrison's operation.\"\n\nDuring Clay Shaw's preliminary hearing, Novel was twice subpoenaed to appear before the Orleans Parish Grand Jury. The second time Novel did not show up, while he had left the state. In order to get Novel extradited, Garrison's office issued two warrants for Novel's arrest. The first arrest warrant was based on him being a material witness in the Clay Shaw investigation, which historically labeled him as \"the missing witness\" in Garrison's assassination conspiracy theory.\n\nThe second arrest warrant was based on a new accusation; Garrison accused Novel of having \"burglarized\" the munitions bunker in Houma. During the same time-frame, on 25 May 1967, the \"New Orleans States-Item\" published a detailed article on the Clay Shaw case. In that article the New Orleans States-Item produced a handwritten letter, that experts identified as Novel's handwriting, which referred to a CIA connection to his advertising agency. Until then Novel had publicly denied any CIA connections. After the letter was revealed, Novel's attorney, Steve Plotkin, said that Novel wrote the letter and that Novel had CIA connections in New Orleans. While holding off his extradition, Novel organized a news conference in Columbus, Ohio, where he publicly defended himself against Garrison's accusation of burglary. During the conference, reporters were told that; there were CIA operations in New Orleans, an advertising agency in New Orleans (which was operated by Novel) did indeed serve as a CIA front, that the raid on the Houma munitions bunker was a \"patriotic act\". Later on, Plotkin further specified Novel's role as an \"intermediary\", but added that Novel's work had \"little or nothing to do with the Bay of Pigs invasion and certainly had absolutely nothing to do with the assassination of President Kennedy\". The extradition proceedings were eventually dropped on 3 July 1967, due to defects/incomplete extradition papers.\n\nIn an October 1967 interview for Playboy Magazine, Garrison accused Novel of being a paid employee of the CIA and hinted at complicity in the JFK assassination. Subsequently, Novel filed a $10-million libel suit against Garrison and Playboy in Federal Court, being represented by Elmer Gertz, who was an expert in reputation damage and smear campaigns. In his book \"To Life\" Gertz stated that Novel's deposition ran into \"hundreds, if not thousands, of pages\". Eventually, the case did not come to trial but was instead dismissed by Judge William J. Campbell after the defendants moved for a reconsideration of their motions.\n\nIn an episode of the PBS program \"Frontline\" aired on February 9, 1993, Novel said he saw photos of FBI director J. Edgar Hoover engaged in oral sex with his aid Clyde Tolson. The episode incorporated the work of author Anthony Summers whose book \"Official and Confidential: The Secret Life of J. Edgar Hoover\" alleged that Novel said he was shown the photo by CIA counterintelligence chief James Jesus Angleton.\n\nIn 1974, columnist Jack Anderson wrote that Charles Colson consulted Novel on the possible use of a degaussing device that could erase copies of the Watergate tapes stored in at the White House and the CIA from a distance. Eventually, Colson and Novel mutually decided not to do this, because of its danger to other national security tapes and computers. According to Colson, the plan never came close to development.\n\nJim Garrison's successor to the seat of district attorney Harry Connick Sr. brought charges against Novel for conspiracy to firebomb part of New Orleans by balloons on behalf of a world's fair Novel was promoting. After three previous prosecutions, that included a hung jury, a mistrial and a conviction with three-year sentence, the conviction was overturned due to \"tremendous conflicts\" in government testimony. Columnist Jack Anderson reported that \"Eminent legal scholars say a fourth prosecution in a non-capital case is virtually unprecedented, and raises the issue of retaliatory prosecution\". Connick denied there was intention to \"persecute\" Novel.\n\nNovel worked as private investigator to the DeLorean Motor Company chairman John DeLorean in 1982, and subsequently became a business partner. DeLorean claimed there was a conspiracy between Britain's Conservative Party and U.S. and British intelligence agents to close DeLorean's manufacturing plant in Northern Ireland. DeLorean's claims relied on Gordon Novel's investigation and resulting evidence. The alleged conspiracy included an attempt to frame/entrap DeLorean for cocaine trafficking, against which DeLorean eventually successfully defended himself in the resulting lawsuit. Part of the defense was an audiotape, which was made public by Hustler magazine publisher Larry Flynt, which revealed DeLorean was the victim of a sting operation. When Flynt refused to name Novel as the supplier of the tape, he was charged and convicted to a 5½ month sentence for contempt of court.\n\nNovel was hired as chief investigator by former U.S. Attorney General Ramsey Clark, in the aftermath of the Waco Siege of 1993. Ramsey Clark provided legal counsel for some of the surviving members of Branch Davidian, as well as more than a hundred family members of those who had died or were injured in the confrontation. Novel has stated that his analysis of a FLIR tape, made by a Nightstalker aircraft, indicates serious misconduct, e.g. federal agents firing upon people inside the compound while they were trying to flee the fire. Former CIA Director William Colby collaborated with Novel on the investigation of misconduct on the higher levels of command including the FBI. Novel originated allegations that U.S. Federal agents were guilty of murdering David Koresh's followers during the Waco siege.\n\nAs a private investigator, Novel gave strategic advice to various celebrities, among which were Michael Jackson and Jean-Claude Van Damme.\n\n"}
{"id": "7248381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7248381", "title": "Hijitus", "text": "Hijitus\n\nHijitus is an Argentine comic superhero created by Manuel García Ferré. He made his debut in September 1955 in the comic strip \"The Adventures of Pi-Pío\", published in \"Billiken\" magazine. He was only a side character then, but became the protagonist of his own action-comedy animated series \"The Adventures of Hijitus\" which was broadcast in Argentina between 1967 and 1974. The TV series is frequently re-transmitted on Argentinian television as many Argentinians perceive it as nostalgic.\n\nHijitus lives inside the Manuel Garcia Ferre universe shared with many other characters like Anteojito, Larguirucho, and others.\n\nHijitus lives inside a giant pipe in the outskirts of town with his dog Pichichus. For Argentinian popular culture \"living inside a pipe\" is analogous to being poor, so this means that Hijitus economic situation is bad. He does possess, however, a magical hat that allows him to convert into a superhero with multiple powers.\n\nBoth the comic and series have a similar, simple structure. Hijitus is a poor good-hearted kid that fights against Professor Neurus (a mad scientist)' evil plans, transforming into a superhero named Super Hijitus and acts to fix the issues. A recurrent theme was Neurus trying to steal Hijitus' magic hat, for possessing his powers, only to ending falling and ending on jail.\n\nHijitus is a normal human being. However, whenever he uses his hat, he transforms into Super Hijitus, a super hero with super strength, super speed, super endurance and other occasional super powers like super breath or heat vision, similar to Superman.\n\nThe first animated appearance of the character, named \"Las Aventuras de Hijitus\", made its debut on TV in 1967. On 12 September 1973, a movie with the same name, was released in cinemas. Hijitus had also a comic book, edited in 1970.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179969", "title": "James C. Neill", "text": "James C. Neill\n\nJames Clinton Neill (c. 17881848) was a 19th-century American soldier and politician, most noted for his role in the Texas Revolution and the early defense of the Alamo. He was born in North Carolina.\n\nJames Clinton Neill was born in 1788 in Rowan County, North Carolina, the third child (and third son) of James Neill and Hannah Clayton Neill. William Clinton Neill (James Clinton's grandfather), was a captain in the American Revolution, who along with five of his sons, including James Clinton's father James, fought in the War for Independence. James Clinton's uncle, Lieutenant William Neill, was killed at the Battle of Ramsour's Mill. The Clinton middle name comes from both his paternal grandfather and grandmother, Captain William Clinton Neill and his wife Mary \"Polly\" Clinton Neill. \n\nBy at least 1807, some members of the James Neill family had moved to south-central Tennessee, in and around Bedford and Marshall counties. In this vicinity, James Clinton married Margaret Harriett Ferguson in 1807. It is likely that James Clinton Neill was acquainted with a near-neighbor around those parts at the same time, David Crockett, another Tennessean who would become a Texas Revolution hero. Like Crockett, J.C. Neill fought in the Creek Indian War, enlisting with the West Tennessee Militia (protecting present day Alabama). He enlisted on October 1, 1813 and was discharged on March 15, 1815. He participated in the latter part of the War of 1812, during the Creek War. Although wounded, he fought in the decisive battle against the Red Sticks, at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.\n\nNeill served as a captain under Major William Woodfolk. The battalion was designated as \"Separate Battalion of West Tennessee Militia\". This battalion was based at Fort Jackson most of the time from late November 1814 to early 1815. Some of the men were stationed at Fort Decatur, where the remnants of the defeated Creek Nation came to surrender, seeking food and supplies (surrendering Creeks also went to Fort Jackson). One company, under Captain Abner Pearce, was stationed at Fort Montgomery. Woodfolk was a wealthy land speculator who owned a large plantation in Jackson County. In addition to potentially sharing time with Davy Crockett, during this military service James Clinton Neill may well have also met his future Texas Revolution commander, Sam Houston.\n\nBy at least 1820, J.C. Neill had moved his family to Greene County, Alabama. He served in the Alabama state legislature and was also a justice of the peace in Jackson County. He lived in Tennessee (present day Alabama) with his wife Margaret Harriett, who bore him three childrenGeorge Jefferson Neill (b. 1808), Samuel Clinton Neill (b. 1815) and Harriett (b. 1820).\n\nThe family moved to Texas in 1831 with Stephen F. Austin's third colony where he received a league of land (4,428) acres. They settled in (Viesca District) which is now Milam County. Neill served as a district representative in the Convention of 1833.\n\nDue to his previous experience in battle, Neill had some knowledge of artillery. In 1834 Neill and his family moved to Mina, modern day Bastrop. On September 28, 1835, when armed conflict with Antonio López de Santa Anna's Mexican troops seemed inevitable, he joined the Texian militia as a captain of artillery. On October 2, 1835, he saw action at the conflict at Gonzales. Texian John Holland Jenkins recorded that Neill actually fired the famed Gonzales \"Come and Take It\" cannon, crediting him with firing \"the first shot of the Texas Revolution.\"\n\nAfter Gonzales, James would move onwards to the Alamo and join with Stephen F. Austin's forces in the Siege of Bexar. From December 5–10, Neill's battery provided covering fire for the assault on San Antonio de Béxar. He had gained an additional artillery piece from the Battle of Concepción and two more from the New Orleans Grays. They would be placed in the Texian post, just west of the Alamo, confronting the town, however their fire could not shake Cos from Bexar. Then, Neill and his command formed a plan. They took a cannon across the San Antonio River and fired upon the Alamo as a diversionary tactic. The plan worked and the Texians were able to enter into Bexar. House to house fighting would eventually push the Mexicans back and into the Alamo. On December 8, the Mexican Army made a counterattack, Neill and his crew were there to answer back with canister. The flying hailstorm would quickly end the advance, ultimately resulting in the surrender of the Mexican forces on December 9.\n\nOn December 7, the Texas General Council had commissioned Neill lieutenant colonel of artillery in the regular Texian army. Having received several captured Mexican field pieces to augment his firepower, he now commanded over twenty artillery pieces, the largest amount west of the Mississippi River and north of the Rio Grande.\nNeill had been recommended for the commission by one of his neighbors, D. C. Barrett, who wrote to Texian Army commander Sam Houston that \"age and experience with his militia rank & title, would seem to justify his first commission as a field officer\".\n\nOn December 21, 1835, Houston requested that Neill, now a lieutenant colonel of an artillery company, take command of the Texian and Tejano garrison stationed at the Alamo Mission in San Antonio de Bexar. The orders also specified that Neill should make a report to Houston detailing the current state of the defenses in the city and what improvements were needed.\n\nThe Texian garrison was woefully undermanned and underprovisioned, with fewer than 100 soldiers remaining by January 6, 1836. Neill wrote to the provisional government: \"If there has ever been a dollar here I have no knowledge of it\". Neill requested additional troops and supplies, stressing that the garrison was likely unable to withstand a siege greater than four days. The Texian government was in turmoil and unable to provide much assistance. Four different men claimed to have been given command over the entire army; on January 14 Neill approached Houston for assistance in gathering supplies, clothing, and ammunition.\n\nOn January 17, 1836, James Bowie arrived to evaluate the situation, with the suggestion from Sam Houston to remove the artillery and blow up the Alamo. Houston had written the Provisional Government asking for approval of his orders. Houston sent Bowie to San Antonio because he trusted Bowie's opinion. Instead of leaving the Alamo and falling back to Gonzales or Copano Bay, Bowie and Neill became committed to its defense. Bowie, impressed with Neill's leadership, wrote, \"\"No other man in the army could have kept men at this post, under the neglect they have experienced\".\" Despite Houston's orders to have the Alamo destroyed as indefensible, Neill and Bowie vowed \"... we will rather die in these ditches than give it up to the enemy.\" However, Neill was soon badly in need of supplies, as well as soldiers.\n\nOn February 11, Neill left the Alamo, to care for his family, overcome with a serious illness. He transitioned command to William Barret Travis, the highest-ranking regular army officer in the garrison. Due to a rift in the command of the Alamo between Bowie and Travis, Neill returned to the Alamo on February 14 and settled the dispute. A resolution was reached; Bowie and Travis would hold joint command of the Alamo. Neill would leave San Antonio just before the siege of the Alamo. On the day of the final Alamo battle, Neill was in Gonzales steadily working to increase the roster of the Alamo relief forces. In Gonzales, he signed a personal voucher on March 6, for ninety dollars to buy medicine for the Alamo garrison. Neill was intent on heading back to the Alamo where unknown to him, the fort had already fallen to Mexican troops on March 6, during the Battle of the Alamo. On March 7, Neill with Burleson gathered 50 men and headed for the Alamo.\nThey came close to the Alamo but were repulsed by Mexican cavalry. Neill returned to Gonzales on March 10 after leaving a small party of scouts to observe, who also returned to Gonzales the next day.\n\nFrom late February until Houston's arrivial on March 11, Neill had been in command of the relief troops gathering at Gonzales. Two days later, on March 13, word was received that the Alamo had fallen. Thus, Neill once again relinquished his command and joined the withdrawal of Sam Houston's army to Groce's Retreat on the Brazos River. Unable to transport their cannons, Houston ordered them dumped into the Guadalupe River before abandoning Gonzales. That changed on April 11 when the \"Twin Sisters\" —two matched six-pounders— reached the Texian camp. The brass cannons were a gift from the people of Cincinnati, Ohio. Since Neill was a ranking artillery officer, Houston named him to command the revived artillery corps. On April 20, Neill commanded the Twin Sisters during the Battle of San Jacinto. During this fight, his artillery corps repulsed an enemy probe of the woods in which the main Texian Army was concealed. Neill was seriously wounded when a fragment of a Mexican grapeshot caught him in the hip. The final Battle of San Jacinto was fought on April 21.\n\n1838: received a league of land (including a parcel in Henderson County along the confluence of Walnut Creek and the Trinity River) for his services during the revolution.\n\n1839: ran for the position of major general of militia, losing to newcomer Felix Huston.\n\n1842: led a ranging expedition along the upper Trinity River, to control hostile Indians.\n\n1844: appointed as an Indian agent, responsible for vast areas of Texas.\n\n1845: granted a lifetime pension of $200 a year, as compensation for San Jacinto injuries.\n\nIn 1848, he died at his home on Spring Creek in Navarro County, Texas and was buried next to his wife, who had died near Seguin, Texas in February 1836.\n\nOn land owned with two partners, David Reed Mitchell and Thomas I. Smith, one hundred acres was donated on which the town of Corsicana, Texas would be founded in 1848.\n\nIn 1936 a Texas centennial marker was placed in Guadalupe County, Seguin, Texas in his honor.\n\nIn 1986 a Texas sesquicentennial marker was placed in Navarro County, Corsicana, Texas in his honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1796454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796454", "title": "Jean-Pierre Ouellet", "text": "Jean-Pierre Ouellet\n\nJean-Pierre Ouellet (born August 21, 1946 in Saint-Éleuthère, Kamouraska County, Quebec) is a Canadian politician in the province of New Brunswick.\n\nHe is a three-term member of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick representing the riding of Madawaska-les-Lacs for the Progressive Conservative Party. He was a member of Premier Richard Hatfield's cabinet.\n\nHe served as Minister of Youth from 1974 to 1982 and as Minister of Education from 1985 to his defeat in the 1987 election which saw the Liberals take power.\n\nOuellet returned to politics as the Conservative Party of Canada candidate in the riding of Madawaska-Restigouche in the 2006 federal election but was defeated by incumbent Jean-Claude D'Amours in a close race.\n"}
{"id": "57379698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57379698", "title": "Jean Antoine d'Averhoult", "text": "Jean Antoine d'Averhoult\n\nJean Antoine d'Averhoult, baptized as Jan Anthony d'Averhoult (21 October 1756 in Utrecht – 26 August 1792 in Sedan) was a Dutch military officer and politician of French Huguenot extraction, who played a leading role in both the Patriottentijd and the French Revolution.\n\nD'Arnoult was born the son of Jean (Jan) d'Averhoult, a captain in the Dutch States Army and Gerhardina de Valcke, the daughter of a Groningen \"burgemeester\". The father was a scion of a French Huguenot noble family (he was a \"Sieur\" de Guincourt), that was, however, not part of the Dutch nobility. A great-grandmother migrated to the Dutch Republic in 1691 after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685 with her children, after her spouse died. The family had become fully acculturated as witnessed by the fact that Jan Anthony was baptized in the Jacobi church of Utrecht, that was in use by the congregation of the Dutch Reformed Church, and not in the \"Église Wallonne\". But he was an excellent French speaker. The marriage of his parents went badly, as the father had the mother committed to a borstal-like institution, from which she was only released after his death. During this episode Jan Anthony was cared for by his paternal aunts, especially the spinster Josina Benjamina d'Averhoult with whom he would develop a strong attachment. He would never marry.\n\nA year after his father's death in 1773 d'Averhoult started his military career as a Cornet with the cavalry regiment \"Van Eck\" of the States Army. He received his commission as a lieutenant with the same regiment, and was later promoted to \"ritmeester\" in another cavalry regiment, \"Van Tuyl van Serooskerken\". But in 1785 he resigned his commission. This may have been prompted by his political sympathies. Like many in the early 1780s in the Netherlands he became very critical of the policies of the stadtholder, William V, Prince of Orange and his regime, that was accused of mismanaging the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War. As a Freemason he was a member of the same lodge as Joan Derk van der Capellen tot den Pol, the author of the revolutionary pamphlet \"Aan het Volk van Nederland\", published in 1781, that criticized both the current policies of the regime, and the oligarchic constitution of the Republic, with a regenten-class that monopolized access to political offices. A political movement of opposition to the Orangist, called the Patriots arose, of which d'Averhoult became a member.\n\nIn the Spring of 1785 d'Averhoult took a commission in the \"Turkije\" company of the Utrecht \"schutterij\" that was being rejuvenated by an influx of Patriot Free Corps members. As such he became a leader of the Patriot revolt in Utrecht, together with people like the student leader Quint Ondaatje, that overturned the old \"vroedschap\" and replaced it with a popularly elected city council in August 1786. D'Averhoult was elected one of the new members. The Orangist majority in the States of Utrecht did not accept this and moved the States to the Utrecht city of Amersfoort, while the Patriot minority remained in Utrecht. For the time being the Amersfoort States kept hold of the seat of Utrecht province in the States General, however. Meanwhile, the Amersfoort States convinced the stadtholder to garrison Amersfoort with States Army troops under his command. These troops threatened the safety of Utrecht city, as witnessed by the fact that the Amersfoort garrison in early May 1787 made an attempt to occupy the sluice in Vreeswijk, a strategic object. The Utrecht city authorities decided to thwart this attack. D'Averhoult was placed in command of the relief force that marched down to Vreeswijk om 9 May 1787. This resulted in the Battle of Jutphaas, that the Patriots under d'Averhoult's cool-headed leadership won.\n\nShortly afterward a constitutional crisis erupted in the States General. These were equally divided between three Orangist provinces (Zeeland, Gelderland and Friesland) and three Patriot provinces (Holland, Groningen and Overijssel), while Utrecht was leaning Orangist, and held the balance. In June 1787 the rival Patriot States of Utrecht demanded to be seated in the States General, supported by the three Patriot provincial delegations. Patriot Overijssel temporarily presided at the time, and provisionally seated the Patriot States. This led to riotous behavior by the delegation of the Amersfoort States of Utrecht, one of whose members, drew his sword in the meeting hall, and challenged d'Averhoult, who was a member of the rival Patriot delegation, to a duel. This may or may not have been held the next day in the Hague Wood, fortunately with only slight damage to the participants. The Amersfoort delegation was eventually restored to its position of sole representative of Utrecht in the States General, giving the majority to the Orangists. This was one of the proximate causes of the Prussian invasion of Holland That invasion met little resistance from the Patriots, though d'Averhoult again distinguished himself by repelling several Prussian attacks near fort Nieuwersluis, before his troops were overwhelmed, and he was made a prisoner of war. The Prussians treated him respectfully and he was released and allowed to join the Patriot exodus to Brussels, together with his aunt Josina d'Averhoult.\n\nHowever, d'Averhoult soon moved on to France, where he claimed his old noble title, and French nationality on the basis of it. On the recommendation of his distant cousin the Marquis de la Fayette, d'Averhoult (now calling himself Jean Antoine) was able to get a commission as a lieutenant-colonel in the French army in February 1788, thanks to the fact that the Edict of Versailles of 1787 made him eligible to serve, even though he remained a Protestant. A few months later he was promoted to colonel. In 1789 he was made a \"chevalier\" in the \"Ordre de Mérite Militaire \".\n\nAfter the Storming of the Bastille he attached himself to his cousin, the Marquis de la Fayette, and together with the latter became a member of the faction of the \"Feuillants\". In September 1791 d'Averhoult was elected a deputy for the Arrondissement of Sedan, in the Ardennes department in the new National Legislative Assembly.\n\nAs a deputy, and member of the \"Feuillants\" d'Avernoult opposed the Girondins, who were more radical. But in other respects he was relatively radical. He became a member of the Diplomatic Committee of the Assembly, in which he was a voice for taking an aggressive stance against the surrounding states, in which the French \"Émigrés\" were making difficulties for the new constitutional kingdom of France. He did not think that they were a serious threat yet, but he pointed to the example of the suppression of the Patriots in the Netherlands to show that it was better to nip such a threat in the bud. His proposal to have king Louis XVI issue an ultimatum to the German princes sheltering the \"émigrés\" was accepted on 29 November 1791.\n\nBut d'Averhoult did not wish or expect that France would go to war right away. His intervention did contribute to his popularity in the Assembly and on 8 January 1792 he was elected its president for the usual two weeks. On 17 January 1792 there was a new debate on declaring war on France's external enemies, in particular Austrian emperor Joseph II. D'Averhoult spoke out against it with the following argument: This argument carried the day: the emperor Joseph was censured, but war was not yet declared. But this was only a temporary delay. The \"Girondins\" soon carried the Assembly in forcing a new government on the king, and in April 1792 forcing a declaration of war on emperor Joseph\n\nFrance radicalized more and more, and the \"Feuillants\" lost their influence to the \"Girondins\" and the rising Jacobins. D'Averhoult nevertheless spoke out against the illiberal measures that were taken, like the reintroduction of internal passports, and the lawlessness of the Paris Mob. For instance, he spoke out against the lawlessness of the \"Journée de 20 juin\", even in vain demanding the sanctioning of the local authorities who had failed to suppress that riot. But external developments made his position untenable: the Prussians entered the war after issuing an maladroit ultimatum, in which they demanded the reinstatement of the king in his old powers (reminiscent of the demand to reinstate the stadtholder in September 1787). In the following furor d'Averhoult on 26 July announced that he resigned as deputy in the Assembly. He took a commission as Colonel of the 7th regiment of dragoons, and departed for the front in northern France.\n\nThe overthrow of the monarchy on 10 August 1792 precipitated the defection of the Marquis de la Fayette. And this brought d'Averhoult under suspicion also. On 18 August a warrant for his arrest was issued by the Assembly. He tried to flee across the border near Sedan, together with a servant, but they were intercepted by armed peasants who demanded to see his passport. In the ensuing fight d'Averhoult managed to shoot his way out (though his servant was arrested). D'Averhoult then tried to escape on his own, but was again intercepted by armed peasants. What happened next remains disputed. At some point someone, either d'Averhoult himself, or someone else, put a pistol to the top of his head and pulled the trigger. He died a few hours later, on 26 August 1792 of this wound in Sedan, where he had been transported, in the presence of his Dutch friend Daniël Michiel Gijsbert Heldewier. He was buried in the Protestant cemetery of the \"Faubourg du Fond de Givonne\". He was mourned by his aunt, who soon returned to the Netherlands. But Princess Wilhelmina, the wife of the stadtholder, true to form, wrote to her husband: \n\n"}
{"id": "23674510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23674510", "title": "Joseph Gunzinger", "text": "Joseph Gunzinger\n\nJosef Gunzinger was born in Welschenrohr, Solothurn, Switzerland on March 23, 1892, and died on May 1, 1970 in Heiligenschwendi. He was made in 1962 \"citizen of honor\" of the town of his birth.\n\nSon of Melchior Gunzinger, watchmaker, and Elizabeth Allemann. Married 1920 to Rosalia Allemann, household skills teacher.\n\nUpon his apprentiship as a watchmaker in his father’s workshop, he went to La Chaux-de-Fonds for a one-year furthering of his skills.\n\n1920 he took over the family business and changed the name of the company into Gunzinger Brothers SA. As from 1924, the company started manufacturing watches under the TM Technos that he had previously officially registered.\n\nAt its peak in 1970, Technos employed 450 people and exported around the world, particularly in Brazil and Japan. It was by far the biggest employer of the whole valley.\n\nHe sold the whole company to General Watch Company in 1971, a sub-holding of ASUAG.\n\nJosef Gunzinger was a co-founder of the Federation of the Swiss German watch manufacturers in 1924.\n\nHe was Welschenrohr Community Councilor (Executive) between 1917 and 1931, and a member of the Canton of Solothurn Grand Council (1921-1925).\n\nHe proved to be an entrepreneur doted of a patriarchal fiber with a social touch, although as a politician he was definitely right wing.\n\nJosef Gunzinger is one of the leading figures of the twentieth century flourishing watch industry, whose exemplary-worth values went far beyond Welschenrohr, where he had been for so long the \"king of the village\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19290339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19290339", "title": "Jugurtha Hamroun", "text": "Jugurtha Hamroun\n\nJugurtha Hamroun (; born 27 January 1989) is an Algerian professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or winger for Qatari club Al Kharaitiyat SC, on loan from Al Sadd SC.\n\nAfter starting out at Guingamp in France, he went on to compete professionally in Bulgaria, Turkey, Romania and Qatar.\n\nHamroun represented Algeria at under-23 level, making his debut in November 2011.\n\nHamroun was born in the town of Bouzeguene in the Tizi Ouzou Province. At age 5, he moved with his family to France, where they settled in Neuilly-sur-Marne in the eastern suburbs of Paris.\n\nAt age 12, Hamroun joined the youth ranks of French club En Avant de Guingamp. On 8 April 2008, he signed his first professional contract, for a period of three years, and on 29 August of that year he made his Ligue 2 debut, coming as a substitute for Cédric Liabeuf in the 83rd minute of a 1–1 home draw against CS Sedan Ardennes.\n\nDuring his three-year spell at the \"Stade du Roudourou\", Hamroun alternated between the first team and the reserves, going on to appear in 26 competitive games for the former, including twice in the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League.\n\nOn 26 July 2011, Hamroun signed a three-year deal with Bulgarian team PSFC Chernomorets Burgas, joining on a free transfer. He scored in his A PFG debut, helping to a 2–0 home win over PFC Lokomotiv Plovdiv on 20 August.\n\nOn 18 January 2012, however, Hamroun moved clubs and countries again, being sold to Kardemir Karabükspor in the Turkish Süper Lig for a reported fee of €600,000. He played his first match three days later, starting and featuring 70 minutes in the 2–1 home success over Trabzonspor.\n\nIn his first full season, Hamroun contributed with 20 scoreless appearances as the side narrowly avoided relegation after ranking 15th.\n\nIn January 2015, after being a free agent since the summer, Hamroun signed a six-month contract with Romania's FC Oțelul Galați, who were in the midst of a financial crisis. The second of his Liga I goals came on 19 April in a 2–1 win at eventual champions FC Steaua București, but his team was not able to eventually stave off relegation.\n\nAfter Oțelul's relegation into Liga II, Hamroun refused to extend his contract and, as it was due to expire, fellow league side FC Petrolul Ploiești showed interest in signing the player. On 29 June 2015, he was announced as player of Giresunspor on their official website, but the deal eventually fell through due to the club being in debt and not allowed to make any transfers; in July, he joined FCSB on a three-year deal, making his debut on the 14th against AS Trenčín in the first leg of the second qualifying round for the UEFA Champions League and scoring the second goal of the 2–0 away win.\n\nOn 22 December 2009, Hamroun was called up to the Algerian under-23 national team by head coach Abdelhak Bencheikha, for a week-long training camp in Algiers. In October 2011, after scoring four goals in eight games in the Bulgarian League, he was recalled by new manager Azzedine Aït Djoudi after an almost two-year absence.\n\nOn 15 November 2011, Hamroun made his debut for the under-23s, as a second-half substitute in a friendly against South Africa. The following day, he was selected for the squad due to appear at the Africa U-23 Cup of Nations in Morocco.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55536686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55536686", "title": "KNU/KNLA Peace Council", "text": "KNU/KNLA Peace Council\n\nThe KNU/KNLA Peace Council (abbreviated KPC) is an armed opposition group in Myanmar (Burma). It was founded on 31 January 2007 by Major General Saw Htay Maung, the then-commander of the 7th Brigade of the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA). Despite its name, it is not part of or sponsored by its former parent organisation, the Karen National Union (KNU), nor the KNLA. The group is a signatory of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, which was finalised in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "194163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194163", "title": "Katherine Harris", "text": "Katherine Harris\n\nKatherine Harris (born April 5, 1957) is an American politician, elected in 1998 as Secretary of State of Florida and in 2002 to the United States House of Representatives from Florida. A Republican, Harris won the 2002 election to represent Florida's 13th congressional district, serving for two terms, from 2003 to 2007. Harris lost her campaign in 2006 for a United States Senate seat from Florida.\n\nIn 1994, Harris was noted for the most expensive campaign for the Florida Senate to date, winning her seat that year in her entry into electoral politics. In the 2000 presidential election, Harris gained national attention for her role in the Florida election recount, certifying George W. Bush's narrow victory (537 votes) over Al Gore and awarding him the Florida electors, which gained him the national election.\n\nHarris was born in Key West, Florida to one of the state's wealthiest and most politically influential families. She is the daughter of Harriet (Griffin) and George W. Harris, Jr., who owned Citrus and Chemical Bank in Lakeland, Florida. Her maternal grandfather was Ben Hill Griffin, Jr., a successful businessman in the citrus and cattle industries and a powerful figure in the state legislature. Shortly before his death in 1990, he was ranked as the 261st richest American on the Forbes 400 list. Ben Hill Griffin Stadium at the University of Florida is named for him.\n\nHarris' extended family has been active in Christian evangelism. Her grandfather was a Christian missionary in Africa, while her aunt and uncle were missionaries in India. They now head the Arab World Missions. Harris studied under Dr. Francis Schaeffer at a L'Abri Fellowship International center. Harris attended Greystone, an all-girls Christian camp at Asheville, North Carolina. She has said her faith is \"the most important thing in my life.\" Harris was reared in the Presbyterian Church in America, but as an adult, she has criticized the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) for being \"more liberal.\" She attends Calvary Chapel, a non-denominational charismatic church in Sarasota, Florida.\n\nHarris married Swedish businessman Sven Anders Axel Ebbeson in 1996 and has one stepdaughter, Louise. Sven Ebbeson committed suicide in November 2013.\n\nHarris graduated from Bartow High School in Bartow, Florida, in 1975. She attended the University of Madrid in 1978. Harris received a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Georgia, in 1979. She studied under Christian theologian Francis Schaeffer at the L'Abri community in Huemoz, Switzerland, near Lausanne. While in college she worked as an intern for U.S. Representative Andy Ireland.\n\nBefore entering politics, Harris worked as a marketing executive at IBM and a vice president of a commercial real estate firm.\n\nHarris earned a M.P.A. from Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1996.\n\nHarris joined the Republican Party. She ran for the Florida Senate in 1994 in one of the most expensive state races in Florida history to date. Harris's political career was guided by Dan Berger, Adam Goodman, and Benjamin McKay, along with her campaign manager, David Lapides.\n\nHarris played a prominent role in introducing William Griffin (with whom she had a close personal relationship), the CEO of Riscorp, to various Florida legislators. In the 1994 state senate election, Sarasota-based Riscorp, Inc. made illegal contributions totaling $400,000 to dozens of political candidates and committees, including $20,600 to the Harris campaign.\n\nTwo years later, in 1996, Harris sponsored a bill \"to block Riscorp competitors from getting a greater share of Florida workers' compensation market, [and] also pushed a proposal that would hurt a particular competitor.\" This issue later emerged during her campaign for Florida Secretary of State in 1998.\n\nWilliam Griffin eventually pleaded guilty to illegal campaign donations, among allegations of other serious wrongdoing at Riscorp, and served prison time in 1998. The election of Republican Jeb Bush as governor of Florida is considered to have been a major factor in stopping further state investigation into the Riscorp scandal. According to a \"Sun-Herald\" column from June 2005, \"Harris denied any knowledge of the scheme, was never charged with any crime and was cleared of wrongdoing by a state investigator.\"\n\nHarris was elected Florida Secretary of State in 1998. She defeated then-incumbent Sandra Mortham in the Republican primary and won the general election against Democratic candidate, Karen Gievers, an attorney from Miami.\n\nDuring her first 22 months in office, Harris spent more than $106,000 for travel, more than the governor or any other cabinet officer. She visited eight countries including Iran, India, and the Netherlands on ten foreign trips.\n\nIn early 2001, Florida Senate leaders eliminated the $3.4 million that Harris had budgeted for international relations for the year, assigning it instead to \"Enterprise Florida\", the state's economic development agency. However, Florida House Leader Tom Feeney said that he disagreed with the Senate and believed that Harris was an able advocate to foreign countries. After the House refused to agree with the proposed budget action, the Senate agreed to restore the money; however, it insisted on a review committee, appointed by Senate President John McKay, Feeney, and Governor Jeb Bush, to evaluate all of Harris' expenditures on international affairs since July 1, 1999, and produce a report.\n\nAs Secretary of State for the State of Florida (and co-chair of George W. Bush's election efforts in Florida), Harris was a central figure in the 2000 US presidential election in Florida. The election between Al Gore and George W. Bush was so close in Florida, separated by 537 votes, that a recount of the votes was called for.\n\nAfter several recounts were inconclusive and the laws governing recounts were unclear, Harris halted the recounting process. She certified that the Republican candidate, Texas Governor George W. Bush, had defeated the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore, in the popular vote of Florida and thus certified the Republican slate of electors. This victory in Florida allowed Bush to win the election. Her ruling was upheld in the state circuit court, but was subsequently overturned on appeal by the Florida Supreme Court.\n\nThe Florida Supreme Court decision was reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Bush v. Gore\". (2000) In a per curiam decision, by a 7-2 vote, the Court in \"Bush v. Gore\" held that the Florida Supreme Court's method for recounting ballots was a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. By a 5–4 vote, the US Supreme Court held that no alternative method for a recount could be established within the time limits set by the State of Florida.\n\nThe decision allowed Harris' previous certification of Bush as the winner of Florida's electoral votes to stand. Florida's 25 electoral votes gave Bush, the Republican candidate, 271 electoral votes, defeating Gore, who ended up with 266 electoral votes (with one D.C. elector abstaining).\n\nHarris later published \"Center of the Storm,\" her memoir of the 2000 election controversy.\n\nIn 2002, Harris ran against Sarasota Attorney Jan Schneider for the congressional district vacated by retiring Republican Rep. Dan Miller, winning by 10 percentage points in this solidly Republican district, a victory helped with one of the biggest first term campaign fund raising efforts in the history of this district and substantial support from the Bush family.\n\nHarris considered running for the seat of retiring Senator Bob Graham in 2004 but was reportedly dissuaded by the Bush White House to allow Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Mel Martinez to run instead. Martinez went on to narrowly beat challenger Betty Castor. Harris ran for re-election to her House seat in 2004; she was re-elected with a margin almost identical to her first win.\n\nIn a 2004 speech in Venice, Florida, Harris claimed that a \"Middle Eastern\" man was arrested for attempting to blow up the power grid in Carmel, Indiana; Carmel Mayor James Brainard and a spokesman for Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan said they had no knowledge of such a plot. Brainard said he had never spoken to Harris.\n\nDuring a 2004 campaign stop in Sarasota, a local resident, Barry Seltzer, \"tr[ied] to 'intimidate' a group of Harris supporters\" by menacing Harris and her supporters with his automobile. Witnesses described Seltzer as having swerved off the road and onto the sidewalk, directing it at Harris and her supporters. Nobody was injured in the incident. Seltzer, who claimed he was \"exercising [his] political expression,\" was eventually arrested and charged with assault with a deadly weapon.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, a major corporate campaign donor to Harris, Mitchell Wade (founder of defense contractor MZM), was implicated in several bribery scandals. Wade had bundled together and donated to Harris's campaign $32,000 in contributions from his employees at MZM, Inc., then reimbursed those employees for the contributions. Regarding this issue, U.S. Attorney Kenneth Wainstein said that Harris did not appear to know the donations were obtained illegally. Harris has maintained she had no personal knowledge that her campaign was given illegal contributions. Wade acknowledged that the donations to the Harris campaign were illegal and were part of an attempt to influence Harris to MZM's benefit.\n\nDocuments filed with Wade's plea say that he took Harris to dinner in March 2005, a year after the illegal contributions, where they discussed the possibility of another fundraiser and the possibility of getting funding for a Navy counterintelligence program placed in Harris's district. Harris sent a letter on April 26, 2005, to defense appropriations subcommittee Chairman C. W. Bill Young, in which Harris sought $10 million for a Navy project backed by Wade. In the letter, Harris emphasized the importance of the project, asking that it be added to her list of five priorities and identifying it as her new No. 3. Harris later released the April 26, 2005, letter for legal scrutiny, but neither she nor Young would turn over the request form (RFP) used for the proposal.\n\n\"CQPolitics\" noted \"Harris's former political strategist, Ed Rollins, spoke on the record about the dinner and detailed a meal that cost $2,800, far in excess of the $50 limit on gifts that members of Congress are allowed to accept\" at the Washington restaurant Citronelle. Wade and Harris discussed MZM's desire for a $10 million appropriation, and Wade offered to host a fundraiser for Harris's 2006 Senate campaign. Regarding the MZM contributions, the \"Sentinel\" article goes on to say \"The Justice Department has said Wade, who personally handed many of the checks to Harris, did not tell Harris the contributions were illegal\". Regarding the expensive meal, the article quotes Harris as saying that she personally had only a \"beverage and appetizer\" worth less than \"$100\".\n\nRollins said that he had conducted a thorough internal investigation into Harris's ties to MZM in hopes of finding conclusive proof of her innocence; but when he could not, he and other advisers, including her lawyer, urged her to drop her candidacy rather than risk federal corruption charges. Although he did not believe Harris intentionally broke any laws, \"her story kept changing. Our great concern was that you get into trouble when you don't tell the same story twice ... Maybe you don't think you did anything wrong, but then maybe you start getting questioned about it and so forth, and you may perjure yourself. ... Unlike Cunningham, I don't think she set out to violate the law, but I think she was very careless. She heard whatever she wanted to hear, but we could find no evidence whatsoever that this was a project going into her district.\"\n\nAlthough Rollins recalled discussing the $2,800 meal with Harris, Harris told the \"Orlando Sentinel\" on April 19, 2006, that the cost of the meal was \"news to me\", and that her campaign had since \"reimbursed\" the restaurant for the cost of the meal. According to the reporter, when questioned as to why she would reimburse the restaurant for a meal that had been paid for by MZM, Harris abruptly terminated the interview, and her spokesman later called and requested unsuccessfully that the story not be printed. The next day, Harris's campaign issued a statement that she had believed her campaign had reimbursed the restaurant, and that she had donated $100 \"which will more than adequately compensate for the cost of my beverage and appetizer\". Harris also asserted that most of the cost of the meal was from Wade ordering several unopened bottles of wine to take home, although the management of the restaurant denies ever allowing anyone to take unopened bottles of wine off the premises, saying \"Why would we jeopardize our liquor license for the sake of selling a couple bottles of wine?\"\n\nIn the weeks following the expensive meal, former senior Harris staffers claimed that \"they initially rejected a defense contractor's $10 million appropriation request last year but reversed course after being instructed by Harris to approve it.\" In May 2006, Harris's campaign spokesman Christopher Ingram acknowledged that she had also had a previous dinner with Wade in the same restaurant in March 2004, when the $32,000 in illegal donations had been given to her campaign. Ingram told the press that he did not know how much that meal cost, but that a charitable donation of an unknown amount had been given to a charity whose name he did not know, equivalent to her share of the meal. \"She takes responsibility for the oversight that there was no reimbursement,\" he said.\n\nMona Tate Yost, an aide to Harris, left to work for MZM during the time Wade was pressing Harris to secure federal funding (April or May 2005). On July 17, 2006, Ed Rollins confirmed that Justice Department lawyers and FBI agents had recently questioned her about the $32,000 in donations. Rollins noted: \"I assume more [interviews] will be coming, though. They were very serious.\" On September 7, 2006, Federal investigators questioned Jim Dornan, who quit as Harris's campaign manager the previous November.\n\nOn June 7, 2005, with support from her new campaign advisors of Ed Rollins and Jim Dornan, Harris announced her candidacy for the 2006 Florida United States Senate election, challenging Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson. Both lackluster fundraising relative to Nelson and controversy over campaign contributions from MZM caused Harris to fall far behind in all polls by May 2006.\nLate in the primary race, Republican contender Will McBride polled 31 points behind Nelson in a hypothetical election against him, while Harris polled 33 points behind Nelson in the same poll. Harris was still popular among Republican voters and won the September 5 primary over McBride and two other challengers with approximately 50% of the total vote.\n\nDespite Harris's support of many Republican causes and her previous statewide victories, some party leaders expressed doubt about her statewide appeal:\n\n\nBy late July 2006, Harris had gone through three campaign managers and her campaign was floundering. At that time, it was disclosed that state Republican Party leaders had told Harris they would not support her because she could not win in the general election.\n\nFinancial problems plagued Harris' Senate campaign from the start. During the primary, it was clear that the incumbent Senator Nelson had a substantial financial advantage.\n\nOn the March 15, 2006, edition of Fox News Channel's \"Hannity & Colmes\", Harris pledged to spend $10 million of her own money, which she said was all of her inheritance, on her campaign. She also stated that her run was dedicated to the memory of her father.\n\nDespite her promise, the $10 million never materialized. Reports surfaced that Harris would not actually receive the inheritance from her father, who instead left his entire estate to her mother. She donated $3 million to her campaign, but later took back $100,000, fueling speculation that she would be unable to donate the promised amount.\n\nIn October, Harris announced that she was trying to sell her house in Washington to raise money for her campaign, but the home was not publicly listed for sale and no sale was ever announced.\n\nNelson defeated Harris by more than one million votes. Harris received less than 39% of the vote.\n\nIn late February 2006, in the midst of revelations surrounding Mitchell Wade's illegal contributions, Harris's campaign finance director and her campaign treasurer both resigned. On April 1, 2006 Harris's top campaign advisor, pollster and campaign manager all resigned with a half-dozen other staffers. Republican pollster and consultant David Johnson said, \"I've never seen staffers go like this. It's just imploding.\"\n\nIn early April 2006, Harris told the \"Tampa Tribune\" that some of her ex-campaign staffers and the national Republican party were deliberately sabotaging her campaign by \"putting knives in her back\" and had warned her that if she did not back out of the campaign, she would get an \"April surprise\". Former campaign staffer Ed Rollins said \"They were all good professionals ... There was no backstabbing. It's insulting that she would even say that. If she wants to know what went wrong with the campaign, maybe she needs to take a good look in the mirror.\"\n\nIn June, the Harris campaign received a legal bill for thousands of dollars that contained a reference to \"DOJ subpoena\". Later, an ex-aide told the Associated Press that Harris had received a grand jury subpoena from federal investigators, but kept it from her top advisers, prompting several staff members to quit when they found out. On June 8, 2006, Harris's fourth chief of staff, Fred Asbell, left in order to pursue a \"business opportunity\". Asbell said he'd \"greatly enjoyed\" his time with the campaign and he would remain in a consultant position. On July 12, 2006, Harris's campaign spokesman Chris Christopher Ingram left the campaign. The next day, Harris received resignations from Campaign Manager Glenn Hodas, Field Director Pat Thomas, Political Director Brian Brooks and Deputy Field Director John K. Byers, while Travel Aide Kyle Johnson and Field Director Mike Norris declined to leave, citing loyalty to Harris. Hodas cited Harris's \"tantrums\" and \"increasingly erratic behavior\" as his reasons for leaving. An anonymous campaign worker described Harris as \"very difficult to work with. The more that we put her out there, the more she shot herself in the foot.\"\n\nIn late August, Harris lost another key staffer, Rhyan Metzler, in the wake of a disastrous political rally at Orlando Executive Airport. Only 40 people showed up for the event, and Harris blamed the paltry turnout in part on a last-minute change in location. She claimed that a tree fell on the hangar that was originally scheduled to hold the rally, forcing her campaign to switch to another hangar. Airport officials, however, stated that not only had no trees fallen, but also that there are no trees as they get in the way of the airplanes; further adding that the event in fact took place in the hangar that Harris's campaign had originally booked. Harris's campaign blamed Metzler for the comments Harris made after the rally. On August 31, 2006, Harris was interviewed on \"Hardball with Chris Matthews\", where she responded to the criticisms from her former staffers with \"We have their email traffic, we know what was behind all that, we know who's been paid and who isn't.\"\n\nThe \"Pensacola News Journal\" suggested that Harris might withdraw from the Senate race after winning a primary victory, thereby allowing the Republicans to nominate another candidate, such as Tom Gallagher, to run against Bill Nelson (politician).\n\nIn August, Katherine Harris touted political endorsements from fellow Republican lawmakers on her campaign web site. However, some of those cited claim that they never endorsed her. This conflict resulted in several Republican congressmen calling the Harris campaign to complain after the \"St. Petersburg Times\" notified them of the endorsements listed on Harris's Web site. A short time later, their names were removed without comment from Harris's Web site.\n\nOf Harris's three primary opponents, only Will McBride endorsed her candidacy for the general election. In the first few days after the primary, a number of Republican nominees such as Charlie Crist and Tom Lee went on a statewide unity tour with Gov. Bush. Harris was not invited; Republicans said the tour was only for nominees to statewide offices. Harris claimed Bush would campaign with her sometime in the two months before the election, but the governor's office denied this.\n\nPresident Bush did not make public appearances or private meetings with Harris before the primary. He did, however, appear with her at a fundraiser on September 21 in Tampa.\n\nWhen it came time for newspapers to make their op-ed endorsements, all 22 of Florida's major daily newspapers supported Senator Nelson. The only endorsement Harris received was from the \"Polk County Democrat\", a newspaper in Bartow which publishes four days out of the week.\n\nHarris was a headline speaker at the Coral Ridge Presbyterian Church's \"Reclaiming America for Christ\" conference held in Ft. Lauderdale on March 17–18, 2006. The conference web site invited attendees to attend in order to \"reclaim this nation for Christ.\" The stated mission of ReclaimAmerica.org is \"To inform, equip, motivate, and support Christians; enabling them to defend and implement the Biblical principles on which our country was founded.\" As part of her speech, Harris urged conferees to \"win back America for God.\" Her appearance was noted in a \"Rolling Stone\" article covering the conference.\n\nIn an interview with the \"Florida Baptist Witness\" on August 24, 2006, Harris called for Christians to vote on religious lines. She said,\n\nRep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) said she was \"disgusted\" by the comments \"and deeply disappointed in Representative Harris personally,\" adding \"clearly shows that she does not deserve to be a representative.\" Two of Harris' primary opponents denounced her statements, Republican Will McBride (an attorney and son of a pastor) stated \"I'm a Christian, and I'm a Republican, and I don't share her views. There are people of other faiths and backgrounds of outstanding integrity who know how to tell the truth.\" Real estate developer Peter Monroe, another GOP primary opponent, called on her to quit the race and resign from Congress. He called her suggestion that non-Christian voters are ignorant of morality when voting as \"contemptible, arrogant and wicked.\"\n\nOn August 26, 2006, Harris's campaign released a \"Statement of Clarification\", that stated, \"In the interview, Harris was speaking to a Christian audience, addressing a common misperception that people of faith should not be actively involved in government. Addressing this Christian publication, Harris provided a statement that explains her deep grounding in Judeo-Christian values.\" The press release went on to mention her past support of Israel and quoted her Jewish campaign manager Bryan G. Rudnick, who stated \"As the grandson of Holocaust survivors, I know that she encourages people of all faiths to engage in government so that our country can continue to thrive on the principles set forth by our founding fathers, without malice towards anyone.\" At an appearance at an Orlando gun show that same day, she said \"it breaks my heart\" to think people understood her comments as bigoted. When asked if she thought the Founding Fathers intended the nation to have secular laws she replied, \n\nOn October 3, 2006, Harris participated in a prayer service via phone call. In one instance, she called for the elimination of the separation of church and state when she said,\n\nHarris then went on and prayed for Jews to be converted to Christianity.\n\nVern Buchanan was the Republican nominee and Christine Jennings the Democratic nominee to replace Harris in the 2006 election. The race had been ranked as \"leaning Democratic\" by CQ Politics, but Buchanan scored a very narrow victory, winning the election by a few hundred votes.\n\nHarris is a conservative on most issues. She is pro-life and has voted against embryonic stem cell research. She opposes oil-drilling in Florida's coastal waters. Harris supported reforming Social Security to include private accounts. She has voted in favor of granting legal status to fetuses via the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. She supports tax cuts and the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, which restricts bankruptcy filings by consumers. Harris is also in favor of welfare reform, school vouchers, the Patriot Act, the Flag Desecration Amendment, the Federal Marriage Amendment, and the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In a televised debate with Nelson on November 1, however, she repeatedly declined to say whether she would still support the Iraq War Resolution knowing that Iraq did not have weapons of mass destruction. In an earlier debate with Nelson, Harris was asked to comment on trade of arms with foreign nations and the potential threat of their acquisition by terrorist groups. Harris responded that \"we know we don't want to have arms going to the rogue nations like China.\"\n\nHarris has not been very active in public life since retiring from politics. In 2013, her husband, Swedish-born businessman Anders Ebbeson, shot himself in the Sarasota home they shared; he had reportedly been suffering a serious illness. Three years later, she attended a reunion of former Florida legislators in Tallahassee, and in 2017, after admitting she'd become \"a near recluse\" since Ebbeson's death, she married Texas banker Richard Ware.\n\nKatherine Harris was the subject of some popular skits on \"Saturday Night Live\", in which she was played by Ana Gasteyer; she was also portrayed by actress Laura Dern in the 2008 film \"Recount\", which won Dern a Golden Globe for the role. Harris is also referenced in one of filmmaker Kevin Smith's monologues for the DVD \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30196807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30196807", "title": "Kee Kim Swee", "text": "Kee Kim Swee\n\nKapitan China Kee Kim Swee (or Kee Kim Sui, also known as Kee Abdullah after he converted to Islam) was one of the prominent and important Chinese nationality (Hainanese) who settled in Tawau, Sabah. He was appointed as the first customs examiner and revenue collector by the British North Borneo (Chartered) Company in Tawau, 1894. A year later, Tawau development was entrusted to his hands by the British administration. He became the first \"Pengulu\" or \"Orang Kaya\" (OKK) in Tawau, Sabah. Tawau (also known as Tanjung) became a modern town under Kee Kim Swee's lead, as he engineered Tawau into a business and commercial area in the early 1900s.\n\nAfter he died, his son OKK Kee Abu Bakar became his successor as the \"Penghulu\".\n\nKee Abdullah (Kee Kim Swee) was born in 1863. Little is known about his biological mother. He had a step-parent known by the name Kipas, a Dusun Tidong woman from Brunei.\n\nIn 1883, at the age of 20 years, as the courteous and respected Agent of the Company in Brunei, Kapitan Kee Kim Swee was appointed as Datuk Temenggung over the Chinese community by Sultan Abdul Momin.\n\nIn 1885, while on a trading journey with his father to Sandakan, their Tongkang boat encountered a mishap and capsized at the Marudu Bay. His father of Hainanese origin died in the incident and was buried in a Chinese cemetery in the district of Kudat, Sabah. Kee Kim Swee survived and was rescued by villagers. He settled in the residence of a Suluk man named Dato Husin until his recovery.\n\nIn 1894, Kee Kim Swee was recruited by the British North Borneo Chartered Company as a customs examiner and revenue collector in Tawau. One of his many tasks was to collect a one-dollar poll tax from the residents. His unique ability to converse in Arabic, and also Jawi literate, served as a link between the native and Chinese groups with the government. Thus, he was often called upon for his view and to provide representation.\n\nHe converted to Islam when he married a Mindanao girl of Sulu Parang Tapol, Jumaatiah Ame Maidin, and later changed his name into Kee Abdullah. His marriage with Jumaatiah gave him 18 children, 13 boys and 5 girls.\n\nHis children with Jumaatiah Ame Maidin:\n\nSome of the children's names were not recorded.\n\nHis early marriage with a Chinese woman from Kudat gave them 3 children, 2 boys and 1 girl. Both of his sons went back to China, while the girl changed her surname into \"Chin\" by marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "17562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17562", "title": "Leni Riefenstahl", "text": "Leni Riefenstahl\n\nHelene Bertha Amalie \"Leni\" Riefenstahl (; 22 August 1902 – 8 September 2003) was a German film director, producer, screenwriter, editor, photographer, actress and dancer.\n\nBorn in 1902, Leni Riefenstahl grew up in Germany with her brother Heinz (1905–1944), who was killed on the Eastern Front in World War II. A talented swimmer and artist, she also became interested in dancing during her childhood, taking dancing lessons and performing across Europe.\n\nAfter seeing a promotional poster for the 1924 film \"Der Berg des Schicksals\" (\"The Mountain of Destiny\"), Riefenstahl was inspired to move into acting. Between 1925 and 1929, she starred in five successful motion pictures. In 1932, Riefenstahl decided to try directing with her own film called \"Das Blaue Licht\" (\"The Blue Light\").\n\nIn the 1930s, she directed \"Triumph des Willens\" (\"Triumph of the Will\") and \"Olympia\", resulting in worldwide attention and acclaim. The movies are widely considered two of the most effective, and technically innovative, propaganda films ever made. Her involvement in \"Triumph des Willens\", however, significantly damaged her career and reputation after the war. The exact nature of her relationship with Nazi Party leader Adolf Hitler remains a matter of debate. However, Hitler was in close collaboration with Riefenstahl during the production of at least three important Nazi films, and a closer friendship is claimed to have existed. When in 2000 Jodie Foster was planning a biographical drama on Riefenstahl, war-crime documenters warned against a revisionist view that glorified the director. They stated that publicly Riefenstahl seemed \"quite infatuated\" with Hitler and was in fact the last surviving member of his \"inner circle\". Others go further, arguing that Riefenstahl's visions were essential to the success of the Holocaust. After the war, Riefenstahl was arrested, but classified as being a \"fellow traveler\" or \"Nazi sympathiser\" only and was not associated with war crimes. Throughout her life, she denied having known about the Holocaust. Besides directing, Riefenstahl released an autobiography and wrote several books on the Nuba people.\n\nRiefenstahl died of cancer on 8 September 2003 at the age of 101 and was buried at Munich Waldfriedhof.\n\nHelene Bertha Amalie Riefenstahl was born in Germany on 22 August 1902. Her father, Alfred Theodor Paul Riefenstahl, owned a successful heating and ventilation company and wanted his daughter to follow him into the business world. Since Riefenstahl was the only child for several years, Alfred wanted her to carry on the family name and secure the family fortune. However, her mother, Bertha Ida (Scherlach), who had been a part-time seamstress before her marriage, had faith in Riefenstahl and believed that her daughter's future was in show business. Riefenstahl had a younger brother, Heinz, who was killed at the age of 39 on the Eastern Front in Nazi Germany's war against the Soviet Union.\n\nRiefenstahl fell in love with the arts in her childhood. She began to paint and write poetry at the age of four. She was also athletic, and at the age of twelve joined a gymnastics and swimming club. Her mother was confident her daughter would grow up to be successful in the field of art and therefore gave her full support, unlike Riefenstahl's father, who was not interested in his daughter's artistic inclinations. In 1918, when she was 16, Riefenstahl attended a presentation of Snow White which interested her deeply; it led her to want to be a dancer. Her father instead wanted to provide his daughter with an education that could lead to a more dignified occupation. His wife, however, continued to support her daughter's passion. Without her father's knowledge, she enrolled Riefenstahl in dance and ballet classes at the Grimm-Reiter Dance School in Berlin, where she quickly became a star pupil.\n\nRiefenstahl attended dancing academies and became well known for her self-styled interpretive dancing skills, traveling across Europe with Max Reinhardt in a show funded by Jewish producer Harry Sokal. Riefenstahl often made almost 700 \"Reichmarks\" for each performance and was so dedicated to dancing that she gave filmmaking no thought. She began to suffer a series of foot injuries that led to knee surgery that threatened her dancing career. It was while going to a doctor's appointment that she first saw a poster for the 1924 film \"Der Berg des Schicksals\" (\"The Mountain of Destiny\"). She became inspired to go into movie making, and began visiting the cinema to see films and also attended film shows.\n\nOn one of her adventures, Riefenstahl met Luis Trenker, who was an actor from \"Der Berg des Schicksals\". At a meeting arranged by her friend Gunther Rahn, she met Arnold Fanck, the director of \"Der Berg des Schicksals\" and a pioneer of the mountain film genre. Fanck was working on a film in Berlin. After Riefenstahl told him how much she admired his work, she also convinced him of her acting skill. She persuaded him to feature her in one of his movies. Riefenstahl later received a package from Fanck containing the script of the 1926 film \"Der Heilige Berg\" (\"The Holy Mountain\"). She made a series of films for Fanck, where she learned from him acting and film editing techniques. One of Fanck's films that brought Riefenstahl into the limelight was \"Die Weisse Hölle vom Piz Palü\" (\"The White Hell of Piz Palü\") of 1929, co-directed by G. W. Pabst. Her fame spread to countries outside Germany.\n\nRiefenstahl produced and directed her own work called \"Das Blaue Licht\" (\"The Blue Light\") in 1932, co-written by Carl Mayer and Béla Balázs. This film won the Silver Medal at the Venice Film Festival, but was not universally well-received, for which Riefenstahl blamed the critics, many of whom were Jewish. Upon its 1938 re-release, the names of Balázs and Sokal, both Jewish, were removed from the credits; some reports claim this was at Riefenstahl's behest. In the film, Riefenstahl played an innocent peasant girl who is hated by the villagers because they think she is diabolic and cast out. She is protected by a glowing mountain grotto. According to herself, Riefenstahl received invitations to travel to Hollywood to create films, but she refused them in favour of remaining in Germany with a boyfriend. The film attracted the attention of Hitler, who believed she epitomized the perfect German female. He saw talent in Riefenstahl and arranged a meeting.\n\nIn 1933, Riefenstahl appeared in the U.S.-German co-productions of the Arnold Fanck-directed, German-language \"SOS Eisberg\" and the Tay Garnett-directed, English-language \"S.O.S. Iceberg\". The movies were filmed simultaneously in English and German and produced and distributed by Universal Studios. Her role as an actress in \"S.O.S. Iceberg\" was her only English language role in film.\n\nRiefenstahl heard Nazi Party (NSDAP) leader Adolf Hitler speak at a rally in 1932 and was mesmerized by his talent as a public speaker. Describing the experience in her memoir, Riefenstahl wrote, \"I had an almost apocalyptic vision that I was never able to forget. It seemed as if the Earth's surface were spreading out in front of me, like a hemisphere that suddenly splits apart in the middle, spewing out an enormous jet of water, so powerful that it touched the sky and shook the earth\".\n\nRiefenstahl eventually came to the notice of Hitler who was immediately captivated by her work. She is described as fitting in with Hitler’s ideal of Aryan womanhood, a feature he had noted when he saw her starring performance in \"Das Blaue Licht.\" After meeting Hitler, Riefenstahl was offered the opportunity to direct \"Der Sieg des Glaubens\" (\"The Victory of Faith\"), an hour-long propaganda film about the fifth Nuremberg Rally in 1933. The opportunity that was offered was a huge surprise to Riefenstahl. Hitler had ordered Goebbels Propaganda Ministry to give the film commission to Riefenstahl, but the Ministry had never informed her. Riefenstahl agreed to direct the movie even though she was only given a few days before the rally to prepare. She and Hitler got on well, forming a friendly relationship. The propaganda film was funded entirely by the NSDAP.\n\nDuring the filming of \"Victory of Faith,\" Hitler had stood side by side with the leader of the Sturmabteilung (SA) Ernst Röhm, a man with whom he clearly had a close working relationship. Röhm was ruthlessly murdered on Hitler's orders a short time later during the purge of the SA referred to as the Night of the Long Knives. It has gone on record that, immediately following the killings, Hitler subsequently ordered all copies of the film to be destroyed, although Riefenstahl disputes that this ever happened.\nStill impressed with Riefenstahl's work, Hitler asked her to film \"Triumph des Willens\" (\"Triumph of the Will\"), a new propaganda film about the 1934 party rally in Nuremberg. More than one million Germans participated in the rally. Initially, according to Riefenstahl, she resisted and did not want to create further Nazi Party films, instead wanting to direct a feature film based on Eugen d'Albert's \"Tiefland\" (\"Lowlands\"), an opera that was extremely popular in Berlin in the 1920s. Riefenstahl received private funding for the production of \"Tiefland\", but the filming in Spain was derailed and the project was cancelled. Hitler was able to convince her to film \"Triumph des Willens\" on the condition that she would not be required to make further films for the party, according to Riefenstahl. The motion picture was generally recognized as an epic, innovative work of propaganda filmmaking. The film took Riefenstahl's career to a new level and gave her further international recognition.\n\nIn interviews for the 1993 documentary \"The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl\", Riefenstahl adamantly denied any deliberate attempt to create Nazi propaganda and said she was disgusted that \"Triumph des Willens\" was used in such a way.\n\nDespite allegedly vowing not to make any more films about the Nazi Party, Riefenstahl made the 28-minute \"\" (\"Day of Freedom: Our Armed Forces\") about the German Army in 1935. Like \"Der Sieg des Glaubens\" and \"Triumph des Willens\", this was filmed at the annual Nazi Party rally at Nuremberg. Riefenstahl said this film was a sub-set of \"Der Sieg des Glaubens\", added to mollify the German Army which felt it was not represented well in \"Triumph des Willens\".\n\nHitler invited Riefenstahl to film the 1936 Summer Olympics scheduled to be held in Berlin, a film which Riefenstahl claimed had been commissioned by the International Olympic Committee. She visited Greece to take footage of the route of the inaugural torch relay and the games' original site at Olympia, where she was aided by Greek photographer Nelly's. This material became \"Olympia\", a hugely successful film which has since been widely noted for its technical and aesthetic achievements. She was one of the first filmmakers to use tracking shots in a documentary, placing a camera on rails to follow the athletes' movement. The film is also noted for its slow motion shots. Riefenstahl played with the idea of slow motion, underwater diving shots, extremely high and low shooting angles, panoramic aerial shots, and tracking system shots for allowing fast action. Many of these shots were relatively unheard of at the time, but Leni’s use and augmentation of them set a standard, and is the reason why they are still used to this day. Riefenstahl's work on \"Olympia\" has been cited as a major influence in modern sports photography. Riefenstahl filmed competitors of all races, including African-American Jesse Owens in what later became famous footage.\n\"Olympia\" premiered for Hitler's 49th birthday in 1938. Its international debut led Riefenstahl to embark on an American publicity tour in an attempt to secure commercial release. In February 1937, Riefenstahl enthusiastically told a reporter for the \"Detroit News\", \"To me, Hitler is the greatest man who ever lived. He truly is without fault, so simple and at the same time possessed of masculine strength\". She arrived in New York City on 4 November 1938, five days before \"Kristallnacht\" (the \"Night of the Broken Glass\"). When news of the event reached the United States, Riefenstahl publicly defended Hitler. On 18 November, she was received by Henry Ford in Detroit. \"Olympia\" was shown at the Chicago Engineers Club two days later. Avery Brundage, President of the International Olympic Committee, praised the film and held Riefenstahl in the highest regard. She negotiated with Louis B. Mayer, and on 8 December, Walt Disney brought her on a three-hour tour showing her the ongoing production of \"Fantasia\".\n\nFrom the \"Goebbels Diaries\", researchers learned that Riefenstahl had been friendly with Joseph Goebbels and his wife Magda, attending the opera with them and going to his parties. Riefenstahl maintained that Goebbels was upset when she rejected his advances and was jealous of her influence on Hitler, seeing her as an internal threat. She therefore insisted his diary entries could not be trusted. By later accounts, Goebbels thought highly of Riefenstahl's filmmaking but was angered with what he saw as her overspending on the Nazi-provided filmmaking budgets.\n\nIn \"Triumph of the Will,\" Tom Saunders argues that Hitler serves as the object of the camera's gaze. Saunders writes, \"Without denying that “rampant masculinity” (the “sexiness” of Hitler and the SS) serves as the object of the gaze, I would suggest that desire is also directed toward the feminine. This occurs not in the familiar sequences of adoring women greeting Hitler’s arrival and cavalcade through Nuremberg. In these Hitler clearly remains the focus of attraction, as more generally in the visual treatment of his mass following. Rather, it is encoded in representation of flags and banners, which were shot in such a way as to make them visually desirable as well as potent political symbols\" (\"Filming the Nazi Flag: Leni Riefenstahl and the Cinema of National Arousal,\" 25). The flag serves as a symbol of masculinity, equated with national pride and dominance, that channels men's sexual and masculine energy. Riefenstahl's cinematic framing of the flags encapsulated its iconography. Saunders continues, \"The effect is a significant double transformation: the images mechanize human beings and breathe life into flags. Even when the carriers are not mostly submerged under the sea of colored cloth, and when facial features are visible in profile, they attain neither character nor distinctiveness. The men remain ants in a vast enterprise. By contrast and paradoxically, the flags, whether a few or hundreds peopling the frame, assume distinct identities\" (29).\n\nRiefenstahl distorts the diegetic sound in \"Triumph of the Will.\" Her distortion of sound suggests she was influenced by German art cinema. Influenced by Classical Hollywood cinema's style, German art film employed music to enhance the narrative, establish a sense of grandeur, and to heighten the emotions in a scene. In \"Triumph of the Will,\" Riefenstahl used traditional folk music to accompany and intensify her shots. Ben Morgan comments on Riefenstahl's distortion of sound, “In \"Triumph of the Will\", the material world leaves no aural impression beyond the music. Where the film does combine diegetic noise with the music, the effects used are human (laughter or cheering) and offer a rhythmic extension to the music rather than a contrast to it. By replacing diegetic sound, Riefenstahl’s film employs music to combine the documentary with the fantastic,” (\"Music in Nazi Film: How Different is \"Triumph of the Will?\"\" The music substitutes for the live sound of the event and functions to convey the meaning of her shots. The accompanied music conveys the meaning behind the images, that of national pride.\n\nWhen Germany invaded Poland on 1 September 1939, Riefenstahl was photographed in Poland wearing a military uniform and a pistol on her belt in the company of German soldiers; she had gone to Poland as a war correspondent. On 12 September, she was in the town of Końskie when 30 civilians were executed in retaliation for an alleged attack on German soldiers. According to her memoir, Riefenstahl tried to intervene but a furious German soldier held her at gunpoint and threatened to shoot her on the spot. She claimed she did not realize the victims were Jews. Photographs of a potentially distraught Riefenstahl survive from that day. Nevertheless, by 5 October 1939, Riefenstahl was back in occupied Poland filming Hitler's victory parade in Warsaw. Afterwards, she left Poland and chose not to make any more Nazi-related movies.\nOn 14 June 1940, the day Paris was declared an open city by the French and occupied by German troops, Riefenstahl wrote to Hitler in a telegram, \"With indescribable joy, deeply moved and filled with burning gratitude, we share with you, my Führer, your and Germany's greatest victory, the entry of German troops into Paris. You exceed anything human imagination has the power to conceive, achieving deeds without parallel in the history of mankind. How can we ever thank you?\" She later explained, \"Everyone thought the war was over, and in that spirit I sent the cable to Hitler\". Riefenstahl was friends with Hitler for 12 years and reports vary as to whether she ever had an intimate relationship with him. Her relationship with Hitler severely declined in 1944 after her brother died on the Russian Front.\n\nAfter the Nuremberg rallies trilogy and \"Olympia\", Riefenstahl began work on the movie she had tried and failed to direct once before, namely \"Tiefland\". On Hitler's direct order, the German government paid her seven million \"Reichsmarks\" in compensation. From 23 September until 13 November 1940, she filmed in Krün near Mittenwald. The extras playing Spanish women and farmers were drawn from gypsies detained in a camp at Salzburg-Maxglan who were forced to work with her. Filming at the Babelsberg Studios near Berlin began 18 months later in April 1942. This time Sinti and Roma people from the Marzahn detention camp near Berlin were compelled to work as extras. Almost to the end of her life, despite overwhelming evidence that the concentration camp occupants had been forced to work on the movie unpaid, Riefenstahl continued to maintain all the film extras survived and that she had met several of them after the war. Riefenstahl sued filmmaker Nina Gladitz, who said Riefenstahl personally chose the extras at their holding camp; Gladitz had found one of the Gypsy survivors and matched his memory with stills of the movie for a documentary Gladitz was filming. The German court ruled largely in favour of Gladitz, declaring that Riefenstahl had known the extras were from a concentration camp, but they also agreed that Riefenstahl had not been informed the Gypsies would be sent to Auschwitz after filming was completed.\nThis issue came up again in 2002, when Riefenstahl was one hundred years old and she was taken to court by a Roma group for denying the Nazis had exterminated gypsies. Riefenstahl apologized and said, \"I regret that Sinti and Roma [people] had to suffer during the period of National Socialism. It is known today that many of them were murdered in concentration camps\".\n\nIn October 1944 the production of \"Tiefland\" moved to Barrandov Studios in Prague for interior filming. Lavish sets made these shots some of the most costly of the film. The film was not edited and released until almost ten years later.\n\nThe last time Riefenstahl saw Hitler was when she married Peter Jacob on 21 March 1944. Riefenstahl and Jacob divorced in 1946. As Germany's military situation became impossible by early 1945, Riefenstahl left Berlin and was hitchhiking with a group of men, trying to reach her mother, when she was taken into custody by American troops. She walked out of a holding camp, beginning a series of escapes and arrests across the chaotic landscape. At last making it back home on a bicycle, she found that American troops had seized her house. She was surprised by how kindly they treated her.\n\nMost of Riefenstahl's unfinished projects were lost towards the end of the war. The French government confiscated all of her editing equipment, along with the production reels of \"Tiefland\". After years of legal wrangling, these were returned to her, but the French government had reportedly damaged some of the film stock whilst trying to develop and edit it, with a few key scenes being missing (although Riefenstahl was surprised to find the original negatives for \"Olympia\" in the same shipment). She edited and dubbed the remaining material and \"Tiefland\" premiered on 11 February 1954 in Stuttgart. However, it was denied entry into the Cannes Film Festival. Although Riefenstahl lived for almost another half century, \"Tiefland\" was her last feature film.\nRiefenstahl tried many times to make more films during the 1950s and 1960s, but was met with resistance, public protests and sharp criticism. Many of her filmmaking peers in Hollywood had fled Nazi Germany and were unsympathetic to her. Although both film professionals and investors were willing to support her work, most of the projects she attempted were stopped owing to ever-renewed and highly negative publicity about her past work for the Third Reich.\n\nIn 1954, Jean Cocteau, who greatly admired the film, insisted on \"Tiefland\" being shown at the Cannes Film Festival, which he was running that year. In 1960, Riefenstahl attempted to prevent filmmaker Erwin Leiser from juxtaposing scenes from \"Triumph des Willens\" with footage from concentration camps in his film \"Mein Kampf\". Riefenstahl had high hopes for a collaboration with Cocteau called \"Friedrich und Voltaire\" (\"Friedrich and Voltaire\"), wherein Cocteau was to play two roles. They thought the film might symbolize the love-hate relationship between Germany and France. Cocteau's illness and 1963 death put an end to the project. A musical remake of \"Das Blaue Licht\" (\"The Blue Light\") with an English production company also fell apart.\n\nIn the 1960s, Riefenstahl became interested in Africa from Ernest Hemingway's \"Green Hills of Africa\" and from the photographs of George Rodger. She visited Kenya for the first time in 1956 and later Sudan, where she photographed Nuba tribes with whom she sporadically lived, learning about their culture so she could photograph them more easily. Even though her film project about modern slavery entitled \"Die Schwarze Fracht\" (\"The Black Cargo\") was never completed, Riefenstahl was able to sell the stills from the expedition to magazines in various parts of the world. While scouting shooting locations, she almost died from injuries received in a truck accident. After waking up from a coma in a Nairobi hospital, she finished writing the script, but was soon thoroughly thwarted by uncooperative locals, the Suez Canal crisis and bad weather. In the end, the film project was called off. Even so, Riefenstahl was granted Sudanese citizenship for her services to the country, becoming the first foreigner to receive a Sudanese passport.\n\nNovelist and sports writer Budd Schulberg, assigned by the U.S. Navy to the OSS for intelligence work while attached to John Ford's documentary unit, was ordered to arrest Riefenstahl at her chalet in Kitzbühel, ostensibly to have her identify Nazi war criminals in German film footage captured by the Allied troops shortly after the war. Riefenstahl claimed she was not aware of the nature of the internment camps. According to Schulberg, \"She gave me the usual song and dance. She said, 'Of course, you know, I'm really so misunderstood. I'm not political'\".\n\nRiefenstahl claimed she was fascinated by the Nazis, but also politically naive, remaining ignorant about war crimes. Throughout 1945 to 1948, she was held by various Allied-controlled prison camps across Germany. She was also under house arrest for a period of time. She was tried four times by postwar authorities for denazification and eventually found to be a \"fellow traveller\" (\"Mitläufer\") who sympathised with the Nazis.\n\nRiefenstahl said that her biggest regret in life was meeting Hitler, declaring, \"It was the biggest catastrophe of my life. Until the day I die people will keep saying, 'Leni is a Nazi', and I'll keep saying, 'But what did she do?'\" Even though she went on to win up to 50 libel cases, details about her relation to the Nazi party generally remain unclear.\n\nShortly before she died, Riefenstahl voiced her final words on the subject of her connection to Adolf Hitler in a BBC interview: \"I was one of millions who thought Hitler had all the answers. We saw only the good things; we didn’t know bad things were to come.\"\n\nRiefenstahl began a lifelong companionship with her cameraman Horst Kettner, who was 40 years her junior and assisted her with the photographs; they were together from the time she was 60 and he was 20.\n\nRiefenstahl's books with photographs of the Nuba tribes were published in 1974 and republished in 1976 as \"Die Nuba\" (translated as \"The Last of the Nuba\") and \"Die Nuba von Kau\" (\"The Nuba People of Kau\"). While heralded by many as outstanding colour photographs, they were harshly criticized by Susan Sontag, who claimed in a review that they were further evidence of Riefenstahl's \"fascist aesthetics\". The Art Director's Club of Germany awarded Riefenstahl a gold medal for the best photographic achievement of 1975. She also sold some of the pictures to German magazines. She photographed the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, and rock star Mick Jagger along with his wife Bianca for \"The Sunday Times\". Years later, Riefenstahl photographed Las Vegas entertainers Siegfried & Roy. She was guest of honour at the 1976 Olympic Games in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nIn 1978, Riefenstahl published a book of her sub-aquatic photographs called \"Korallengärten\" (\"Coral Gardens\"), followed by the 1990 book \"Wunder unter Wasser\" (\"Wonder under Water\"). In her 90s, Riefenstahl was still photographing marine life and gained the distinction of being one of the world's oldest scuba divers. On 22 August 2002, her 100th birthday, she released the film \"Impressionen unter Wasser\" (\"Underwater Impressions\"), an idealized documentary of life in the oceans and her first film in over 25 years. Riefenstahl was a member of Greenpeace for eight years.\n\nRiefenstahl survived a helicopter crash in Sudan in 2000 while trying to learn the fates of her Nuba friends during the Second Sudanese Civil War and was airlifted to a Munich hospital where she received treatment for two broken ribs.\n\nRiefenstahl celebrated her 101st birthday on 22 August 2003 at a hotel in Feldafing, on Lake Starnberg, Bavaria, near her home. The day after her birthday celebration, she became ill.\n\nRiefenstahl had been suffering from cancer for some time, and her health rapidly deteriorated during the last weeks of her life. Kettner said in an interview in 2002, \"Ms. Riefenstahl is in great pain and she has become very weak and is taking painkillers\". Leni Riefenstahl died in her sleep at around 10:00 pm on 8 September 2003 at her home in Pöcking, Germany. After her death, there was a varied response in the obituary pages of leading publications, although most recognized her technical breakthroughs in film making.\n\nFilm scholar Mark Cousins notes in his book \"The Story of Film\" that, \"Next to Orson Welles and Alfred Hitchcock, Leni Riefenstahl was the most technically talented Western film maker of her era\".\n\nWhen traveling to Hollywood, Riefenstahl would be criticized by the Anti-Nazi League very harshly when wanting to showcase her film \"Olympia\" soon after its release.\n\nReviewer Gary Morris called Riefenstahl, \"An artist of unparalleled gifts, a woman in an industry dominated by men, one of the great formalists of the cinema on a par with Eisenstein or Welles\".\nFilm critic Hal Erickson of \"The New York Times\" states that the \"Jewish Question\" is mainly unmentioned in \"Triumph des Willens\"; \"filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl prefers to concentrate on cheering crowds, precision marching, military bands, and Hitler's climactic speech, all orchestrated, choreographed and illuminated on a scale that makes Griffith and DeMille look like poverty-row directors\".\n\nCharles Moore of \"The Daily Telegraph\" wrote, \"She was perhaps the most talented female cinema director of the 20th century; her celebration of Nazi Germany in film ensured that she was certainly the most infamous\".\n\nFilm journalist Sandra Smith from \"The Independent\" remarked, \"Opinions will be divided between those who see her as a young, talented and ambitious woman caught up in the tide of events which she did not fully understand, and those who believe her to be a cold and opportunist propagandist and a Nazi by association.\"\n\nCritic Judith Thurman said in \"The New Yorker\" that, \"Riefenstahl's genius has rarely been questioned, even by critics who despise the service to which she lent it. Riefenstahl was a consummate stylist obsessed with bodies in motion, particularly those of dancers and athletes. Riefenstahl relies heavily for her transitions on portentous cutaways to clouds, mist, statuary, foliage, and rooftops. Her reaction shots have a tedious sameness: shining, ecstatic faces—nearly all young and Aryan, except for Hitler's\".\n\nPauline Kael, also a film reviewer employed for \"The New Yorker\", called \"Triumph des Willens\" and \"Olympia\", \"the two greatest films ever directed by a woman\".\n\nWriter Richard Corliss wrote in \"Time\" that he was \"impressed by Riefenstahl's standing as a total auteur: producer, writer, director, editor and, in the fiction films, actress. The issues her films and her career raise are as complex and they are important, and her vilifiers tend to reduce the argument to one of a director's complicity in atrocity or her criminal ignorance\".\n\nIn 1993, Riefenstahl was the subject of the award-winning German documentary film \"The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl\", directed by Ray Müller. Riefenstahl appeared in the film and answered several questions and detailed the production of her films. The biofilm was nominated for seven Emmy Awards, winning in one category. Riefenstahl, who for some time had been working on her memoirs, decided to cooperate in the production of this documentary to tell her life story about the struggles she had gone through in her personal life, her film-making career and what people thought of her. She was also the subject of Müller's 2000 documentary film \"\", about her return to Sudan to visit the Nuba people.\n\nIn April 2007, \"The Guardian\" reported that British screenwriter Rupert Walters was writing a movie based on Riefenstahl's life which would star actress Jodie Foster. The project did not receive Riefenstahl's approval prior to her death, as Riefenstahl asked for a veto on any scenes to which she did not agree. Riefenstahl reportedly wanted Sharon Stone to play her rather than Foster, which ultimately resulted in the cancellation of the project.\n\nIn 2011, director Steven Soderbergh revealed that he had also been working on a biopic of Riefenstahl for about six months. He eventually abandoned the project over concerns of its commercial prospects.\n\nRiefenstahl's filming merits are discussed between characters in the 2009 Quentin Tarantino film \"Inglourious Basterds\".\n\nRiefenstahl was portrayed by Zdena Studenková in \"Leni\", a 2014 Slovak drama play about her fictional participation in \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\".\n\nRiefenstahl was portrayed by Dutch actress Carice van Houten in \"Race\", a sports drama film directed by Stephen Hopkins about Jesse Owens. It was released in North America on February 19, 2016. To make her sympathetic portrayal acceptable to an American audience, the film dramatizes her quarrels with Goebbels over her direction of the film, \"Olympia\", especially about filming the African American star who is proving to be a politically embarrassing refutation of Nazi Germany's claims of Aryan athletic supremacy.\n\nRiefenstahl was referred to in the series finale of the television show \"Weeds\" when Nancy questions Andy for naming his daughter after a Nazi to which he replied \"she was a pioneer in film-making, I don't believe in holding grudges.\"\n\nIn the 2016 short film \"Leni. Leni.\", based on the play by Tom McNab and directed by Adrian Vitoria, Hildegard Neil portrays Riefenstahl preparing to give an interview in 1993. In her dressing room she is \"visited\" by herself as a young woman portrayed by Valeria Kozhevnikova at three stages/turning points in her life: as a dancer (1924), an actress (1929) and a director (1940).\n\nThe 2017 video game \"\" (which takes place in an alternate 1961 where the Nazis won World War 2) features a supporting character heavily implied to be Leni Riefenstahl. Named Lady Helena, this female director is responsible for making the vast majority of the propaganda movies said to be playing (most notably a big budget movie detailing how America was \"liberated\" by Nazis). Lady Helena is later met face to face and she is seen to closely resemble Riefenstahl. It also revealed that her mysterious \"producer\" is an aging, delusional Adolf Hitler and that the two share a close working relationship.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342830", "title": "Leontiy Sivstov", "text": "Leontiy Sivstov\n\nLeontiy Ivanovich Sivstov (1872-1919) was a church reader who lived in Unalaska. Along with Aleksey Yachmenev, who like Sivstov was Aleut himself, Sivstov accompanied Waldemar Jochelson on his 1909-1910 ethnological studies on the Aleut.\n\n"}
{"id": "42303131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42303131", "title": "Liaquat Ali Khan's state visit to the United States", "text": "Liaquat Ali Khan's state visit to the United States\n\nThe state visit of Liaquat Ali Khan to the United States from 3 May to 26 May 1950, was an official state visit paid by the first Prime Minister of Pakistan, Liaquat Ali Khan, accompanied by the First Lady of Pakistan, Sheila Irene Pant.\n\nPersonal initiatives and invitation facilitated by the President of the United States, Harry Truman, Prime Minister of Pakistan Ali Khan and First Lady of Pakistan Begum Ali Khan, were received by the general American public when the state airlines carrying the delegation landed at the New Orleans Airport, New Orleans, Louisiana. Upon Prime Minister Ali Khan's arrival, there was an official parade in the New York City in his honour, he was also conferred with an honorary degree by the Columbia University. During his visit, he also spoke at the House of Representatives, the lower house of the United States Congress.\n\nAt home front, Prime Minister Ali Khan's trip to the United States was highly politicised and criticised by the left–wing sphere who levelled its charges on ignoring the Soviet Union's invitation in favour of the United States. Upon returning to Pakistan, Ali Khan spoke highly of his visit to the US but survived a conspiracy hatched by the left–wing sphere in 1951. According to the English newspaper, \"Dawn\", Ali Khan's state visit and further reliance towards the United States became a permanent fixture of the foreign policy of Pakistan during the Cold War.\n\nAfter the independence of Pakistan in 1947, the United States was one of the first countries to recognise the new State of Pakistan as US Department of State had rushed the US Consul-General in Morocco to Karachi to represent the US government in the Pakistan's Independence Day ceremony on 14 August 1947 with a message of warm greetings and good wishes from the White House.\n\nThe independence of Pakistan in 1947 oversaw the first war over Kashmir region. During the war, Founder of Pakistan and Governor-General Muhammad Ali Jinnah unsuccessfully asked the United States for $2 billion in military and financial aid but the US followed a policy of neutrality, rebuffing any requests made by Pakistan's government. During this time, Pakistan's relations with the USSR remained to be fluctuated. In 1949, Indian Prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru paid the state visit to the United States, which eventually led Pakistan's government to cement relations with the Soviet Union. Finally on 3 June 1949, Soviet Union sent an invitation to Prime Minister Ali Khan which came as a surprise to the United States. With India's strict commitment towards the Non-aligned Movement (NAM) influenced the United States to send an invitation to Ali Khan in 1950.\n\nIn a reference written by Kalim Bahadur in his book \"Democracy in Pakistan: Crises and Conflicts\", Prime Minister Ali Khan quickly accepted the invitation and postponed his visit to Moscow. On 3 May 1950, Prime Minister Ali Khan, the First Lady of Pakistan, Begum Ali Khan and the large civic-military delegation arrived to the United States via United Kingdom and their official flight landed at the New Orleans Airport, New Orleans, Louisiana. Prime Minister Ali Khan was met with honour and received a warm welcome from the general American public; he was personally received by the President of the United States, Harry Truman. Upon reaching New York City, President Truman organised a parade and accorded the red-carpet treatment to welcome Ali Khan and his family.\n\nAli Khan gave a lecture on political science at Columbia University, which conferred him with an honorary degree. Thereafter, he also engaged and spoke to the US House of Representatives. Speaking at the United States Congress session, Ali Khan highlighted the importance of Pakistan's geostrategic location, and the visit set the course of Pakistan's foreign policy: close ties with the United States and co-operation against a perceived threat from the USSR. Upon returning to Pakistan, he strongly defended his trip to the United States in a broadcast from Radio Pakistan on 30 June:\nAt home front, Prime Minister Ali Khan was highly politicised and criticised by the left-wing sphere who charged him with ignoring the Soviet Union's initiation. However, Ali Khan counter-argued that the USSR had slowly extended the invitation and \"were unable to fix a date to pay a state visit.\" Ali Khan's state visit and alignment towards the United States became a pivot in Pakistan's foreign policy during the Cold War. After the assassination of Ali Khan, the relations with the USSR soured until 1965 when the relations improved to such an extent that USSR sponsored the Tashkent Agreement between India and Pakistan.\n\nIn 1972, due to Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto's rapprochement, visit led to normalise the relation after providing a help to finance the founding of Pakistan's largest industrial complex: Pakistan Steel Mills. In a critical assessment opinion written in English newspaper \"Dawn\", Liaquat Ali Khan is chiefly responsible for throwing Pakistan into the US camp.\n\n"}
{"id": "13019581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13019581", "title": "List of British Chinese people", "text": "List of British Chinese people\n\nThis article is a list of prominent people of Chinese ancestry who were born in or have settled in the United Kingdom.\n\nTo be included in this list, the person must have a Wikipedia article showing they are British Chinese or must have references showing they are British Chinese and are notable.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8945883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8945883", "title": "List of Pagans", "text": "List of Pagans\n\nThis is a list of historical individuals notable for their Pagan religion, and modern individuals who self-describe as adherents of some form of Paganism or Neopaganism.\n\nHistoric Baltic pagans:\n\nPagans among the ancient Celtic peoples (Roman Gaul, Roman Britain, Ireland)\n\nHistoric Celtic pagans:\n\n\nHistoric Germanic pagans:\n\nHistoric Graeco-Roman pagans:\n\nChristianization of the Slavs took place in the 9th to 11th centuries, with a pagan reaction in Poland in the 1030s and conversion of the Polabian Slavs by the 1180s (see Wendish Crusade).\n\n\nGermanic Neopagans include:\n\nNeo-druids include:\n\nWiccans include:\n\nUnspecified Neopagans include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19260867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19260867", "title": "List of Peace Corps volunteers", "text": "List of Peace Corps volunteers\n\nThis is a list of notable persons who have been members of the United States Peace Corps, along with their terms of service. Those listed on this page should meet Wikipedia's basic criteria for notability. The page may include a more extensive list of individuals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35916686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35916686", "title": "List of animal rights advocates", "text": "List of animal rights advocates\n\nAdvocates of animal rights as well as activists for animal liberation hold the view that to deny the most basic needs of sentient creatures—such as the avoidance of pain—to non-human animals, on the basis of species membership alone, is a form of discrimination akin to racism or sexism. Many animal rights advocates argue that non-human animals should be regarded as persons and members of the moral community whose interests deserve legal protection.\n\nThe animal rights movement emerged in the 19th century, focused largely on opposition to vivisection, and in the 1960s the modern movement sprang up in England around the Hunt Saboteurs Association. In the 1970s, the Australian and American philosophers, Peter Singer and Tom Regan, began to provide the movement with its philosophical foundations. Singer argued for animal liberation on the basis of utilitarianism, first in 1973 in \"The New York Review of Books\" and later in his \"Animal Liberation\" (1975), while Regan developed a deontological theory of animal rights in several papers from 1975 onwards, followed by \"The Case for Animal Rights\" (1983).\n\nA distinction persists within the movement—based on the utilitarian/deontological divide—between those who seek incremental reform, a position known as animal protectionism, and those on the abolitionist side, who argue that reform that aims to regulate, rather than abolish, the property status of animals is counter-productive.\n\nHistorically speaking it could well be argued that the genesis of the Animal Rights movement was truly in India given the impact that both Buddhism and Jainism had on people in India and the neighbouring countries in Asia.\nThe largest number and highest percentage of Vegetarians per population for any country is in India. Buddhism among the global religions is an animal rights religion par excellence. It has long subscribed to the belief that all life forms including that of non-human animals are sacred and deserving of respect, and extolls kindness and compassion as utmost virtues worthy of cultivation. Buddhism unreservedly embraces all living beings in its ethical cosmology without discrimination on grounds of species, race, or creed. Buddhist tenets—including the first precept, “Do not kill”—extend to both human and non-human sentient beings. The Buddha was so adamant and protective of the more vulnerable members of the moral community—namely the animals—that he declared that: “He who has laid aside the cudgel that injures any creature whether moving or still, who neither slays nor causes to be slain—him I call an Arya (Noble person)” (Dhammapada).\n\nThe following is a list of notable animal rights advocates from all positions within the movement, from academics to activists, listed according to their country of birth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29716851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29716851", "title": "Maggie Ferguson", "text": "Maggie Ferguson\n\nMaggie Ferguson (born in Sydney) is an Australian violinist and bandoneonista who studied orchestral tango at Orquesta Escuela de Tango Emilio Balcarce in Buenos Aires from 2003. In 2009, with the Sydney Youth Orchestras Association (SYO), she created Tango Oz, Australia's first national tango orchestra which she directs from the bandoneon. TangoOz were the focus of Sydney's first Tango Escuela held by the SYO in collaboration with the Conservatorium High School in July 2009 under the guest direction of Ignacio Varchausky and Santiago Polimeni. A second collaboration with Canberra Youth Music occurred in 2010 for Resonate Festival, including William Barton, Ignacio Varchausky and Santiago Polimeni. This showcased the traditional Argentine tango instrument, bandoneon performed with improvised didgeridoo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2780613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2780613", "title": "Mark Williams (radio host)", "text": "Mark Williams (radio host)\n\nMark Williams is an American Constitutional activist, radio talk show host and author based in Sacramento, California. He is the author of \"It's Not Right Versus Left, It's Right Versus Wrong; Exposing the Socialist Agenda\" and \"Taking Back America One Tea Party at a Time\".\n\nMark Williams is a native of Attleboro, Massachusetts and began his career by starting a radio station in the local high school in 1973.\n\nWilliams' first commercial radio job was as a salesman at the former WPEP in Taunton, Massachusetts. He then had an over night talk show on WSAR (Fall River, Massachusetts). He later was an executive producer position at Boston's WRKO AM. He arrived in Sacramento (KFBK AM) in 2000 after on-air stints in San Diego (XTRA AM); Tampa (WFLA AM); Dayton, Ohio (WHIO AM); and the Capital District of New York (WGY).\n\nIn 2005 he and his wife/producer, Holly Williams, and Melanie Morgan of KSFO traveled to Iraq and broadcast from various locations around Baghdad, shows for which each were awarded the Mark Twain Award by the Associated Press Radio and Television Association, and two Greater Bay Area Journalism Awards.\n\nWilliams served as the spokesperson for the Tea Party Express, resigning in July, 2010, amid controversy over an entry he posted to his blog. The post included a \"mock letter to Abraham Lincoln from NAACP President Benjamin Jealous\" in which he used racially charged language to respond to the NAACP's stance against racist elements within the Tea Party movement. The National Tea Party Federation called it an embarrassment, and ousted the Tea Party Express from its organisation after they refused to fire Williams. Williams has been an opponent of the Park51 project to build an Islamic community center in Lower Manhattan. Due to its proximity to the World Trade Center site, he dubbed it the \"Ground Zero\" mosque and called it a \"temple to terrorists,\" saying, \"The monument would consist of a Mosque for the worship of the terrorists' monkey-god.\" Williams' comments drew rebukes from New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, New York State Senators and Muslim leaders. Williams later wrote, \"I owe an apology to millions of Hindus who worship Lord Hanuman, an actual Monkey God. Hanuman is worshiped as a symbol of perseverance, strength, and devotion ... Those are hardly the traits of whatever the Hell (literally) it is that terrorists worship.\" When questioned by \"The Washington Post\" about his comments about Islam and Obama, Williams has claimed the controversy has \"been fantastic for the movement\".\n\nWilliams was featured in Dinesh D'Sousa's 2012 film biography of Obama \"2016: Obama's America\" a segment where Williams appears on CNN's Anderson Cooper show.\n\n"}
{"id": "32971161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32971161", "title": "Mehmed-beg Kulenović", "text": "Mehmed-beg Kulenović\n\nMehmed-\"beg\" Kulenović, Gazi\" Mehmed-\"beg\" Kulenović, Mehmed-\"beg\" Kulinović, also known as Kulin-\"kapetan (1776–13 August 1806) was a Bosnian Ottoman soldier born and raised in Bihać and later became the Kapetan of Bosnia Eyalet. He was a very important regional official for the Ottoman forces due to his ties with the aristocracy in Belgrade. He was killed in the First Serbian Uprising.\n\nMehmed-\"beg\" Kulenović was the son of \"Hadži\"-Ibrahim-\"beg\" Kulenović of Kulen Vakuf. He soon entered Ottoman service and became one of the most important military frontier authorities in Bosnia Eyalet, he was referred to by his servicemen as the \"Master of Ostrovica\". He participated in several military campaigns starting with the assistance of \"Abu Bekir Pasha of Belgrade\", he also attempted to subdue with the aim of calming the Serbian revolt against Belgrade \"Dahia\" (renegade Janissary). But later defended the populace of Visegrad from Serbian insurgents. He guarded the borders of the Bosnia Eyalet on the Drina and in the summer 1806, he accompanied an Ottoman battalion that was defeated during the Battle of Mišar.\n\nWhen the First Serbian Uprising broke out in 1804–05, after the assassination of Hadji Mustafa Pasha of Belgrade, turmoil had become evident throughout the Sanjak of Smederevo; thousands of Muslim refugees from the Sanjak began to pour into the Sanjak of Zvornik. In 1805 the Serbian rebels led by Luka Lazarević had begun their assault on Zvornik itself prompting the Ottoman Grand Vizier to mobilize his army in the Bosnia Eyalet commanded by Sulejman-paša Skopljak and Mehmed-beg Kulenović.\n\nKulenović guarded the borders of the Bosnia Eyalet on the Drina and in the summer of 1806 accompanied an Ottoman battalion led by Sulejman-paša that was on its way to Mišar. For months the Serbian rebels remained entrenched in different strongholds throughout and nearby the Mišar Hill and a pitched battle itself seemed impossible for the Serbian rebels. Mehmed-beg Kulenović and the remaining Ottoman Bosnian troops continued asymmetric efforts against the advancements of the Serbians. Kulenović's efforts were bold enough to cause Luka Lazarević to request for a cavalry challenge. But Kulenović remained with his army and was killed by Serbian rebel musket-fire, while fighting in the woods. Mehmed-beg Kulenović was wounded and then died from wounds, and his body was transferred to Bosnia and buried in the graveyard of the mosque in Janja. The rebellion continued for years after his death.\n"}
{"id": "43203584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43203584", "title": "Nadiya Savchenko", "text": "Nadiya Savchenko\n\nNadiya Viktorivna Savchenko (; born 11 May 1981) is a Ukrainian politician and former Army aviation pilot in the Ukrainian Ground Forces. People's Deputy of Ukraine 8th convocation from\n27 November 2014.\n\nDuring the 2014 War in Donbass Savchenko, a first lieutenant in the Ukrainian Ground Forces, served as instructor with a volunteer infantry unit, the Aidar Battalion. In June 2014, she was captured by pro-Russian forces in eastern Ukraine and handed over to Russia where she was accused of having directed artillery fire that killed two Russian state-television journalists at the positions of pro-Russian forces in Ukraine.\n\nShe was subsequently charged and convicted of murder and illegally crossing Russian state border despite being abducted from Ukrainian territory one hour before the deaths of the journalists. One of her lawyers, Mark Feygin, said she was a prisoner-of-war and called on the International Committee of the Red Cross and the United Nations to demand her immediate release and that of the other Ukrainian POWs lest Russia be held in violation of the Geneva Conventions. European Union ministers and their representative regarded her detention as illegal and that her trial did not respect basic human rights, including the right to fair proceedings.\n\nIn November 2014, while still imprisoned, Savchenko was elected to the Verkhovna Rada in the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election, and she formally resigned from her military post. On 25 May 2016, Savchencko was exchanged in a prisoner swap for Russian GRU officers Yevgeny Yerofeyev and Alexander Alexandrov captured by Ukraine.\n\nAfter returning to Ukraine, Savchenko declared her intention to participate as a presidential candidate in Ukrainian presidential election, 2019. However, she was arrested and charged with planning a terrorist attack to overthrow the Ukrainian government.\n\nSavchenko was one of Ukraine's first women to train as a military aeroplane pilot, and is the only female aviator to pilot the Sukhoi Su-24 bomber and the Mil Mi-24 helicopter.\n\nNadiya Savchenko and her younger sister Vira were born in Kiev in the Troieshchyna neighbourhood. Their father was an agricultural engineer, their mother a designer and cargo manager. Savchenko's father was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union while her mother was an anti-communist. Her mother and sister Vira said in an interview that she and her sister were brought up in a Ukrainian-speaking household and attending Ukrainian-language schools.\n\nAt 16, Savchenko was already determined to become a pilot. She joined the Ukrainian Army, working as a radio operator with the country's railway forces before training as a paratrooper. She was then the only Ukrainian female soldier in the (2004–2008) Ukrainian peacekeeping troops in Iraq. Upon returning, she successfully petitioned the Defence Ministry for the right to attend the prestigious Air Force University in Kharkiv, which until then had been open only to men; she graduated in 2009.\n\nIn 2010, she was posted to the 3rd Army Aviation Regiment in Brody, Lviv Oblast. In 2011, the Ukraine Defence Forces published a 20-minute documentary about Savchenko and her military career. She also featured in a United Nations Development Program as part of a drive to promote equality in the Ukrainian military. Savchenko found her time in Brody boring and often got drunk. She was unhappy at being trained to fly the Mi-24 attack helicopter, instead of fast jets. Her former commanding officer at Brody, Edward Zahurskiy, described her as a problem officer, who was unstable, insubordinate, and lacked discipline.\n\nIn December 2013, Savchenko's 3rd Army Aviation Regiment was ordered to Kiev by President Viktor Yanukovych. Savchenko then (without permission from her commanding officer) joined the Euromaidan demonstrations. Savchenko kept a low profile during the protests; there is video of trying to persuade demonstrators not to throw petrol bombs at riot police. After the president had fled Ukraine in late February 2014, Savchenko and her unit returned to Brody.\n\nAngry over her unit not being deployed in the War in Donbass Savchenko defied orders and left Brody and she volunteered as an instructor in the Aidar Battalion.\n\nDuring the War in Donbass, Savchenko fought as a volunteer in the east of Ukraine in the Aidar Battalion. On 17 June 2014, at 10:46 am she was captured near the village of Metalist, Slovianoserbsk Raion, by members of the Zarya Battalion, an armed pro-Russian militant group that declared allegiance to the self-declared People's Republic of Luhansk. On 19 June, a video of her interrogation at an undisclosed location appeared on the internet; she was shown handcuffed to a metal pipe. On 20 June, the chief of counter-intelligence Vladimir Gromov said that Savchenko was being well treated. On 22 June, there were media reports that Savchenko had been transferred to Donetsk.\n\nOn 8 July 2014, there were media reports that Nadiya Savchenko was being kept in a detention center in city of Voronezh, the Russian Federation. On 9 July, , spokesman for Russia's Investigative Committee (a federal agency subordinate to the Russian President), confirmed that Savchenko was indeed held in Voronezh where she was facing charges of complicity in the 17 June killing of two Russian journalists, Igor Vladimirovich Kornelyuk (a correspondent for All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company), and sound producer Anton Voloshin, who died during a mortar attack on a rebel checkpoint outside Luhansk. Ukrainian officials said the reporters did not comply with safety requirements and were not accredited. According to Savchenko's defence team, she was alibied by the billing data for Savchenko's and Kornelyuk's mobile phones, provided by Ukrainian Security Service, as she had already been captured by the Russian-backed separatists one hour before the mortar attack that killed Russian journalists.\n\nSince late 2015, Russia's Investigative Committee insisted she crossed the border voluntarily without documents, and in the guise of a refugee. This contradicted previously published evidence and media reports: long before the alleged crossing, Russia's pro-Kremlin TV channel NTV reported that Savchenko had been captured by \"rebels\" and then handed over to the Russian authorities. Ukrainian officials said she had been illegally taken to Russia by Russian intelligence services in collaboration with pro-Russian rebels. In 2016, journalist Semen Zakruzhnyi followed the Investigative Committee's alleged route pointing out to numerous inconsistencies and concluding that neither Savchenko nor Russian investigators ever visited the places mentioned in the indictment.\n\nUkraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a strong protest against the illegal transfer of Savchenko to Russia, calling the kidnapping of the Ukrainian citizen an act of state terrorism. On 8 July, President Petro Poroshenko instructed the General Prosecutor of Ukraine to take all measures to bring about Savchenko's release. In response, Vladimir Markin at Russia's Investigative Committee claimed that Savchenko was a terrorist and that the chances of her being released were on a par with those of Petro Poroshenko replacing Barack Obama as President of the United States.\n\nDuring her long trial in Russia, Savchenko has been held in a cage—which is standard practice in Russia for defendants held without bail, despite the European Court of Human Rights ruling that defendants should never be held in a cage in the courtroom. On 10 July, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said in a website statement that her detention and trial is \"A violation of all international agreements, all norms of law and is unacceptable.\" President Poroshenko emphasized that \"Nadiya Savchenko is a symbol of the struggle for Ukraine. While in captivity she has demonstrated the true, strong, martial Ukrainian spirit of a serviceman who doesn't betray the Motherland.\" The President also said he had ordered a new lawyer for Savchenko.\n\nAs of 11 July 2015, Savchenko's Russian defence lawyer is Mark Feygin, who is known for his defence of Pussy Riot. On 27 August 2014 during a hearing at the Sovetsky district court of Voronezh, Savchenko appeared wearing a T-shirt with the Ukrainian state symbol (Tryzub) and spoke exclusively in the Ukrainian language. She also stated that she had been detained in Russia since 24 June, not 30 June as the Russian investigation reported. At the conclusion of the hearing, the court extended Savchenko's detention for a further two months and ordered that she be sent for a month to the Serbsky Institute for a forensic psychological evaluation, which Savchenko opposed.\n\nOn 22 December 2014, Moscow City Court upheld the decision to extend the arrest of Savchenko until the end of the investigation, which was scheduled to be concluded by 13 February 2015. Savchenko subsequently began a hunger strike. The European Union and the United States have condemned Savchenko's detention and have called for her release. Her lawyer, Mark Feygin, said she was a prisoner-of-war.\n\nSavchenko officially became a Ukrainian delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, or PACE, on 26 January 2015; thus on a legal level, she obtained parliamentary immunity in all PACE signatory states, including Russia, from that date. Despite this she was not released. Aleksey Pushkov of the Russian Duma stated that her appointment to PACE was an attack against Russia, and that gaining diplomatic immunity does not absolve one from previous crimes. However, the Russian delegation to PACE struck a different tone, stating that it \"fully supports the release of Nadia Savchenko.\" PACE has declined to strip Savchenko of her parliamentary immunity, and instead has stated that Savchenko must be immediately released, finding her 2014 abduction and subsequent imprisonment to be \"a violation of international law amounting to her de facto kidnapping\".\n\nOn 2 March 2015, President Petro Poroshenko awarded Savchenko with the title of Hero of Ukraine.\n\nOn 24 July 2015, a spokesman for the Investigative Committee of Russia, contrary to the information of Savchenko's capture published earlier by Donetsk People's Republic, stated that she voluntarily crossed the Russian border with intention of committing acts of sabotage and freely moved on the territory of Voronezh Oblast until 30 June when she was arrested.\n\nIn February 2016, the US State department's spokesperson Jen Psaki voiced deep concern over the continued ill-treatment and deteriorating health of Savchenko, and called on Russia to honour its commitments under the September 2014 Minsk agreements, and the February 15 implementation plan by immediately releasing Savchenko and other Ukrainian hostages. Other urges to release her followed. On 7 March 2016, US Secretary of State John Kerry protested about Savchenko's continued detention, specifically mentioning concerns about her interrogations, solitary confinement, and forced \"psychiatric evaluation\".\n\nIn March 2016, Savchenko wrote: \"It is an absurd situation when those who abduct people and subject them to torture then act as if they have a right to judge them! How can one talk about a fair trial? In Russia, there are no trials or investigations—only a farce played out by Kremlin puppets. [...] those in the world with democratic values ought to learn their history lessons before it's too late and remember that there was a time when Europe was tolerant toward Hitler, and America wasn't decisive enough, and this led to World War II.\"\n\nOn the 10 March 2016, while on a hunger strike, Nadiya Savchenko made a last statement to the court, which included the statement: \"I admit no guilt and I recognize neither the court nor the verdict. If I am found guilty, I will not appeal. I want the entire democratic world to understand that Russia is a Third World country with a totalitarian regime and a petty tyrant for a dictator and it spits on international law and human rights.\"\n\nAccording to her lawyer Mark Feygin, \"her case will certainly be decided in Kremlin by Putin and his associates\". On 21 March 2016, the court of Donetsk, Russia found Savchenko guilty of illegally crossing the Russian border and the murder of two Russian journalists.\n\nSavchenko was freed in a prisoner swap on 25 May 2016 for two Russian servicemen. She was released from custody in Rostov-on-Don and immediately on a presidential flight brought to Boryspil. Technically, she was granted a pardon by president Vladimir Putin. Immediately in the Boryspil International Airport she was awarded the Golden Star and received an honorary title of Hero of Ukraine.\n\nSince her release Savchenko suffers from insomnia and nightmares.\n\nIn the October 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election, Savchenko was placed first on the party list of Batkivshchyna. (In a June 2016 interview with \"Radio Free Europe\" she stated that the party wasn't her first choice, but it \"isn't the worst\".) In this same election her sister Vira Savchenko was also a candidate for Batkivshchyna in an electoral constituency in Yahotyn. Nadiya Savchenko was elected as a deputy to the Verkhovna Rada, the parliament of Ukraine, as a result of the election. Because of this Savchenko resigned from the Ukrainian army on 7 November 2014. The Russian government has recognized the elections of Ukraine, meaning that the Russian Federation was holding a member of parliament from another nation under arrest. Vira Savchenko finished third in her constituency with 7.02% of the votes (winner won 40.41%) and was thus not elected.\n\nIn late November 2014, Savchenko signed her parliamentary oath and passed it to Ukraine through her lawyer and was thus sworn in as People's Deputy of Ukraine (MP) on 27 November 2014.\n\nOn 25 December 2014, Savchenko was included in Ukraine's quota for representatives in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE); as noted above, legally this granted her parliamentary immunity in all PACE signatory nations, including Russia.\n\nOn 6 November 2015, Savchenko's first draft law was introduced to parliament, while she was imprisoned in Russia.\n\nOn 27 May 2016, after returning from Russia in a prisoner exchange, Savchenko said she was prepared to become President of Ukraine if the Ukrainians wish so.\n\nIn 2016, Savchenko left Batkivshchyna, but remained a member of its parliamentary faction. This was announced on 12 December 2016 right after Savchenko had admitted she had recently held a secret meeting with separatist leaders Aleksandr Zakharchenko (of the Donetsk People's Republic) and Igor Plotnitsky (of the Luhansk People's Republic) in Minsk. On 15 December 2016, Batkivshchyna expelled Savchenko from its parliamentary faction in response to her Minsk meeting with Zakharchenko and Plotnitsky. The party saw this meeting as \"negotiations with terrorists\" and \"adamantly opposed\" it. Following this controversy, the Ukrainian parliament stripped Savchenko of her PACE membership on 22 December 2016. On 27 December 2016, Savchenko established the Civic Platform RUNA (an acronym for Ukrainian People's Revolution). According to Savchenko RUNA will not be a \"political project\" but rather a \"mechanism\" and a \"natural association of people\" who do not follow \"populist slogans.\" In July 2017 her new political party \"Social and Political Platform of Nadiya Savchenko\" was officially registered. The same month she stated her intent to take part in the 2019 Ukrainian presidential election.\n\nOn 15 March 2018, the Attorney General of Ukraine Yuriy Lutsenko charged Savchenko with preparing a terrorist attack on the Ukrainian parliament. According to Lutsenko, she planned dropping the building of the Verkhovna Rada using mortar fire and finish off all survived members of the Rada with automatic weapons. On 15 March 2018 Lutsenko asked parliament to annul Savchenko's parliamentary immunity in order to prosecute and arrest her.\n\nOn 22 March 2018, parliament stripped Savchenko of her parliamentary immunity and allowed her arrest. The same day she was arrested on suspicion of planning an assault on parliament and supporting a coup. Savchenko claimed that she did not plan any terrorist attack, but talked with undercover Ukrainian government agent provocateurs who sought to discredit her.\n\nSavchenko believes that Ukraine should become \"more or less a dictatorship\" with a strong leader to stand up to Russia and win, with Augusto Pinochet, Margaret Thatcher, Angela Merkel, Ronald Reagan and Nelson Mandela as examples. \nSavchenko has suggested Ukraine should accept the 2014 Russian annexation of Crimea as an attempt to end the War in Donbass.\n\nOn 15 March 2018 Savchenko claimed that \"people now lawmakers\" were involved with the deadly sniper shootings during the 2014 Ukrainian Revolution and that the government that came to power after the 2014 Ukrainian Revolution did not want to thoroughly investigate these shootings.\n\nSavchenko's trial has caused a significant response inside Russia and internationally.\n\nAfter news of her arrest was reported on 19 June, Savchenko became the subject of an impassioned Ukrainian social media campaign portraying her as a national hero. This social media campaign used the hashtag #SaveOurGirl (that mid-July 2014 had generated more than 15,000 tweets); apparently inspired by the hashtag #BringBackOurGirls used in the May 2014 Chibok schoolgirl kidnapping social media worldwide campaign.\n\nAccording to BBC News Savchenko is portrayed extremely negatively in the media of Russia: \"Crude, and at times sexist, innuendo is used to demonise Ms Savchenko\". The Russian daily \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" said that Savchenko is known as a \"killing machine in a skirt\", and Tvoy Den called her \"Satan's daughter\". Russian social media, however, tends to be more nuanced towards her with several anti-Kremlin users mocking perceived oddities in the Russian authorities' version of events, in particular their claim that she entered the country as a refugee. In March 2016, Russian composer Vladimir Nazarov wrote in an open letter to Putin saying that \"not even in my worst nightmare could I have imagined that I would have to ask you not to kill a woman.\" In March 2016, Russian opposition politician Alexei Navalny stated about Savchenko's trial, \"However you look at it, this doesn't benefit Russia\". Navalny said that whoever planned to make Savchenko \"a trophy prisoner\" had miscalculated. He described the trial as such an \"obvious stitch-up\" you could \"see the threads\".\n\nWhen Savchencko was released from Russian prison in May 2016 opinion polls for the Ukrainian presidential election showed 15% would vote for her; by early 2017 this number was below 5%. Savchenko blames an alleged government smear campaign (that is casting her as someone who may have been turned into a Russian agent) for this collapse.\n\nOther Ukrainians detained by Russia include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13481273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13481273", "title": "Nancy Redd", "text": "Nancy Redd\n\nNancy Amanda Redd (born April 28, 1981) is an American journalist who was Miss Virginia in 2003 and competed in Miss America, finishing in the top ten and winning the preliminary \"Lifestyle & Fitness in Swimwear\" competition. She is a native of Martinsville, Virginia, and graduated with honors from Harvard in 2003 with a degree in woman's studies. In February 2002 she won $250,000 on \"Who Wants To Be A Millionaire\" and donated a considerable amount of her winnings to 4-H, which she had been active in as a child. She is an alumna of Girls State.\n\nShe authored the book \"Body Drama: Real Girls, Real Bodies, Real Issues, Real Answers\" and is a host of HuffPost Live. \n\nShe is the author of \"Diet Drama: Feed Your Body! Move Your Body! Love Your Body\" and \"Pregnancy, OMG!: The First Ever Photographic Guide for Modern Mamas-to-Be\".\n\nRedd was one of Glamour magazine's \"Top Ten College Women,\" in October 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "12102748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12102748", "title": "Olumbe Bassir", "text": "Olumbe Bassir\n\nOlumbe Bassir (1919–2001) was a Sierra Leonean scientist, author and academic. His primary contributions to research were in the areas of aflatoxins, nutrition, and peace research.\n\nBorn in Senegal to Sierra Leonean Aku parents in 1919, Abdul Rahman Bassir was raised in Fourah Bay area, in the municipality of Freetown, by his parents Abdul and Isatu Bassir. He attended the Prince of Wales Secondary School where he passed the Senior Cambridge examination with exemption from London matriculation. In 1946, after a short teaching spell at the prestigious Bo Government Secondary School, he attended to Yaba College where he obtained the Higher National Diploma. He then went to the United Kingdom, where he earned the Bachelor of Science degree in 1949 and PhD in 1951 from Liverpool University.\n\nHe spent most of his professional career at the University of Ibadan, where he founded the Biochemistry and Microbiology departments. He laid the foundation of what became the first medical school in West Africa. By 1958, he was already a full professor. His academic specialty was nutrition and biochemical toxicology. He was at various times Head of those two departments, Dean of faculty and also served as acting Vice Chancellor. \n\nHe had written at least 250 professional papers by 1972 when University of London conferred the coveted doctor of science degree (D.Sc.) on him. He had performed very successful lecture tours in the then Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America among others.\n\nOlumbe Bassir was the author of several books. His 1957 book Anthology of West African Verse was seminal in introducing written African poetry to Western audiences. His other popular books include Handbook of Practical Biochemistry (1963) and Metabolism of Afflatoxins and other Mycotoxins (1989).\n\nIn 1968, he formed a partnership with Tecwyn Williams through the British Inter-University Council for Higher Education Overseas. The programme's research division helped developed the Drug Metabolism and Biochemical Toxicology research program at Ibadan and contributed in fostering interest and making interesting findings in animal nutritional habits.\n\nAfter retiring from the University of Ibadan, he remained active for several years, continuing to act as editor of the West African Journal of Biology and Applied Chemistry. He also served as chairman of the Welcome Nigeria Fund, which became the Bassir-Thomas Biomedical Foundation in the early 1990s. He also regularly organised the annual Open House Colloquim.\n\nOlumbe Bassir was a lifelong advocate for peace, and was an active member of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs. He also contributed to the Universities and the Quest for Peace. He was also sympathetic to the Fabian Society which he flirted with in his student days in England. \nHe founded the Association of University Teachers in Nigeria which later became the Academic Staff Union of Universities.\nDespite being non-partisan, he helped develop the manifesto of the Action Group.\n\nHis name \"Olumbe\" means \"God exists\" in Yoruba. He married Constance while still resident in the UK. He had 12 children. In 2000, he suffered a blood clot in the brain due to a traumatic injury to the head. Despite successful surgery and recuperation he died at Ibadan on May 23, 2001.\n"}
{"id": "42632464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42632464", "title": "Percy Cooke Bishop", "text": "Percy Cooke Bishop\n\nPercy Cooke Bishop (1869 – 1961) was a British journalist and philatelist who proposed what became the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists. He was appointed to the Roll in 1921.\n"}
{"id": "56863644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56863644", "title": "Ramakrishna Biswas", "text": "Ramakrishna Biswas\n\nRamkrishna Biswas (? - 4 August 1931) was a Bengali revolutionary and martyr. He was an active member of Surya Sen's revolutionary group.\n\nBiswas was born in Saroatali, Chittagong in British India. His father's name was Durga Kripa Biswas. In 1928, Biswas came first in entrance examination among the district. He joined the revolutionary movement led by \"Masterda\" Surya Sen. In 1930 he was seriously wounded while preparing bombs.\n\nSurya Sen and his followers decided to assassinate Mr. Craig, Inspector General of Police, Chittagong. Biswas and Kalipada Chakrabarty were assigned for this task, subsequently on 1 December 1930 they went to Chandpur station but mistakenly killed a rail officer Traini Mukherjee instead of Craig. Biswas and Kalipada Chakravarty were arrested on 2 December 1931. Biswas's family and friends lacked enough money required to travel to Chittagong to Alipore Jail of Kolkata. At that time Pritilata Waddedar was staying in Kolkata and was asked to go to Alipore Jail and meet Biswas. She introduced herself as his sister and met him. His martyrdom later inspired Pritilata.\n\nBiswas was sentenced to death after his trial. In the morning of 4 August 1931 he was executed in Alipore Central Jail. Kalipada Chakrabarty was transported to Cellular Jail.\n"}
{"id": "18843006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18843006", "title": "Robert Carey (gangster)", "text": "Robert Carey (gangster)\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Carey (August 25, 1894 – July 30, 1932) was a Midwestern armed robber and contract killer responsible for many crimes during the Prohibition era. He is considered a suspect in the infamous St. Valentine's Day Massacre of 1929.\nBorn and raised in St. Louis, Carey joined the Egan's Rats gang in his early twenties. By 1917, he had made fast friends with Fred \"Killer\" Burke, who would turn out to be one of his closest criminal associates. After U.S. Army service during World War I, Carey remained a low-level associate of the Egan Gang. At this time, Burke was away in prison and Bob Carey became associated with Cincinnati hoodlum, Raymond \"Crane Neck\" Nugent. Both men were suspected of robbing of a Cincinnati bank messenger in December 1921 and trying to fence the bonds through the Egan's Rats. \n\nCarey was an alcoholic who got quite sloppy and violent when he drank. Nevertheless, it was Carey who was suspected of convincing Fred Burke to don a fake police uniform to rob a St. Louis distillery of $80,000 worth of whiskey on April 25, 1923. With the imprisonment of the upper-echelon of the Egan gang in 1924, Burke's crew had relocated to Detroit, where they were arrested for the March 1924 robbery of the John Kay jewelry store. While Carey was suspected of taking part, only Isidore Londe was convicted, receiving a 10-20 year sentence. \n\nCarey was suspected of participating in most of the major actions of Fred Burke's crew in the 1920s. Bob was specifically charged by Detroit Police with murdering two freelance hoods, James Ellis and Leroy Snyder, on March 16, 1927 after he caught them cheating at poker. Along with Gus Winkler, Fred Goetz, Ray Nugent, and Charlie Fitzgerald, Carey took part in the American Express armored car robbery on April 16, 1928 in Toledo, Ohio. The gangsters made off with $200,000 and killed Toledo police officer George Zientara. While never publicly named as a suspect, the Chicago Police Department sought Carey for participating in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre of 1929. FBI informant Byron Bolton would later claim that Carey did indeed take part, along with Fred Burke, Gus Winkler, Fred Goetz, and others. With most of his closest associates locked up or dead by early 1932, Carey left Chicago for the East Coast. He and his girlfriend ended up in Baltimore, where they began blackmailing well-to-do businessmen and politicians. The marks would bed Rose Sanborn and Carey would discreetly take pictures. \n\nBy summer, they had moved into a Manhattan apartment at 220 W. 104th Street. Carey, now using the alias of Sanborn, had begun a high-quality counterfeiting operation out of his place. Despite his newfound success, Carey was still isolated, wanted across the country, and drinking heavily. The NYPD concluded that around midnight on July 30, 1932, Carey went berserk and shot his girlfriend Rose to death, after which he turned the gun on himself. In addition to being wanted for the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, Carey was a suspect in the Lindbergh kidnapping. Before leaving Chicago in January 1932, he had hinted darkly to associates that he was planning a crime that \"would set the world on its ears\". The FBI also investigated Carey in connection with the crime until the arrest of Bruno Hauptmann. \n\n"}
{"id": "2009217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009217", "title": "Robert Kerr, 1st Earl of Ancram", "text": "Robert Kerr, 1st Earl of Ancram\n\nRobert Kerr (or Carr), 1st Earl of Ancram (c. 1578–1654), was a Scottish nobleman and writer.\n\nHe descended from a third son of Sir Andrew Kerr of Ferniehurst, and entered public life as laird of Ancrum in Roxburghshire. He was born about 1578, and succeeded to the family estate in 1590 on the death of his father, who was assassinated by his kinsman, Robert Key, younger of Cessford. He was cousin to Robert Carr, the favourite of James VI. Kerr appears to have also been honoured at an early age with court favour. Soon after the king’s accession to the English throne, Kerr occupied a considerable station in the household of Prince Henry. The household of that time was more splendid and consisted of more people than the present royal household. He subsequently was employed by Prince Charles, who became his patron through life. Charles mediated a match between Sir Robert and the Lady Anne Stanley, daughter of the Earl of Derby.\n\nIn 1620, Kerr was involved in a fatal quarrel with a young man named Charles Maxwell, who insulted him without provocation as he entered the palace at Newmarket. In a duel that followed, Sir Robert killed Maxwell. Even though Maxwell's friends acquitted Kerr of blame, the king's strict rules for prevention and punishment of duels forced him to flee to Holland, where he remained about a year. During his exile, he collected pictures, for which, like his royal master, he had good taste. He eventually presented those he brought back with him to the prince. He was also distinguished by his literary taste.\n\nOn the accession of Charles I to the throne, in 1625, Sir Robert Kerr was made a gentleman of the bedchamber, and on 24 June 1633, when the king was in Scotland at his coronation, he was elevated to the peerage, under the titles of Earl of Ancram and Lord Kerr of Nisbet, Langnewton, and Dolphinstoun. Previously, his son William, by his first wife Elizabeth, daughter of Sir John Murray of Blackbarony, had married his relative, Anne, Countess of Lothian in her own right, and had been, by the king, endowed with full participation in that title. It was therefore arranged, in the patent granted to Kerr, that his own title should descend to the children of his second marriage. Thus, he was father of two peers.\n\nUnlike others who owed everything to this prince, the Earl of Ancram remained the prince's steady adherent during the whole of his troubles—though he was unable to prevent his eldest son, the Earl of Lothian, from acting a conspicuous part on the opposite side. On the death of Charles, Kerr took refuge in Holland, where he spent the remainder of his days in solitary afflictions and poverty, and died in 1654, in the seventy-sixth year of his age. Jan Lievens painted him marvelously. His son Charles, inherited his title, but ultimately merged with that of Lothian.\n\nHe had two sons by his first marriage to Elizabeth Murray:\n\nHe had one son and two daughters by his second marriage to Anne, daughter of William Stanley, 6th Earl of Derby:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28687578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28687578", "title": "Steve Southerland (Florida politician)", "text": "Steve Southerland (Florida politician)\n\nWilliam Steve Southerland, II (born October 10, 1965) is a lobbyist and former American politician and member of the Republican Party who served as the U.S. Representative for from 2011 to 2015. The district includes most of the eastern Florida Panhandle, from Panama City to the state capital, Tallahassee. He was narrowly defeated for re-election in 2014, one of only two incumbent House Republicans to lose their seat in the general election that year, the other being Lee Terry of Nebraska.\n\nSoutherland was born on October 10, 1965 in Nashville, Tennessee. He is a lifelong resident of Panama City. He is the fourth generation of five in his family to live in Bay County. In 1983, he graduated from A. Crawford Mosley High School. He earned a B.S. degree in Business Management from Troy State University and an A.A. degree in Mortuary Science from Jefferson State Junior College.\n\nSoutherland is co-owner/president of Southerland Family Funeral Homes, founded in 1955. He is also a founding partner in two other businesses: Genesis Granite & Stone, LLC and K & B Land and Timber Company, LLC. Florida's governor appointed him as chairman of the Early Learning Coalition of Northwest Florida and to the Florida Board of Funeral Directors, where he served as chairman in his second term.\n\nSoutherland won the Republican primary against Eddie Hendry, Ron McNeil, Barbara F. Olschner and David Scholl. He was part of the GOP Young Gun Program. He was endorsed by U.S. Congressmen Eric Cantor, Jeff Miller, former State House Speaker Allan Bense, former Democratic Governor Wayne Mixson, State Rep. Jimmy Patronis, State Rep. Marti Coley, former U.S. Congressman Bill Grant, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, Lynn Haven Mayor, Walter Kelley. It was Southerland's first bid for elected office.\n\nSoutherland faced seven-term Democratic incumbent Allen Boyd in the November general election. Independent candidates Paul C. McKain and Dianne Berryhill were also on the ballot, and Ray Netherwood had qualified as a write-in candidate.\n\nReal Clear Politics rated this race a \"Leans GOP\". CQ Politics rated the election as a toss up.\n\nIn the November 2 general election, Southerland defeated Boyd with 52 percent of the vote. Southerland is the first freshman Republican to represent the 2nd since its formation in 1963 (it was the 9th District from 1963–1967 and has been the 2nd since 1967). The only other Republican to ever represent this district, Bill Grant, was originally elected as a Democrat in 1986, but switched parties midway through his second term.\n\nSoutherland defeated former State Senator Alfred Lawson, Jr. 53% 175,856 votes to 47% 157,634 out of 333,718 ballots cast on November 6, 2012 for his re-election to a second term in Congress.\n\nSoutherland ran for re-election. He ran unopposed for the Republican nomination in the primary, and faced Gwen Graham in the general election on November 4, 2014. Southerland lost the election, receiving 49.56% of the vote to Graham's 50.44%.\n\nSoutherland opposes military intervention in Syria.\n\nHe voted for the Amash–Conyers Amendment, which would prohibit the collection of records by the National Security Agency under the Patriot Act.\n\nHe voted against the 2014 Farm Bill, a $1 trillion bill which expanded crop insurance for farmers by $7 billion over the next decade and created new subsidies for rice and peanut growers that would kick in when prices drop.\n\nSoutherland has stated that he wants to replace the Affordable Care Act \"with an approach that incorporates free-market principles. The article cited states: \"Southerland prefers a system that would give consumers greater access to health savings accounts and force greater competition on insurance providers while retaining the Obamacare provision that prohibits insurers from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions. He voiced support for tort reform to help prevent frivolous lawsuits against doctors.\" \"\n\nOn July 11, 2014, Southerland introduced the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act of 2014 (H.R. 5078; 113th Congress), a bill that would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) from implementing or enforcing certain proposed regulations regarding the use of the nation's waters and wetlands.\n\n\n\nSteve and Susan Southerland have four children. He is a member of Northstar Church, a nondenominational church in Panama City.\n\nSoutherland served as Chairman of the Bay County Chamber of Commerce and Chairman of the Salvation Army Advisory Board as well as such community boards including the Florida State University Panama City Development Board and the Covenant Hospice Foundation Board. He is a member of the National Rifle Association and founding member and former Vice President of the Bay Patriots.\n\n"}
{"id": "789125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789125", "title": "Stuart Piggott", "text": "Stuart Piggott\n\nStuart Ernest Piggott, , FRSE FSA Scot (28 May 1910 – 23 September 1996) was a British archaeologist, best known for his work on prehistoric Wessex.\n\nPiggott was born in Petersfield, Hampshire, the son of G. H. O. Piggott, and was educated there at Churcher's College.\n\nOn leaving school in 1927 Piggott took up a post as assistant at Reading Museum, where he developed an expertise in Neolithic pottery.\n\nIn 1928 he joined the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales and spent the next five years producing a revolutionary study of the site of Butser Hill, near Petersfield. He also worked with Eliot and Cecil Curwen on their excavations at The Trundle causewayed enclosure in Sussex.\n\nIn the 1930s he began working for Alexander Keiller, an amateur archaeologist who funded his work from the profits of his Dundee Marmalade business. The two dug numerous sites in Wessex including Avebury and Kennet Avenue. In 1933, he joined his friend Grahame Clark in writing the highly significant paper, \"The age of the British flint mines\" (\"Antiquity\", 1933): the resultant controversy led to the foundation of the Prehistoric Society. Still without any formal archaeological qualification, Piggott enrolled at Mortimer Wheeler's Institute of Archaeology, London, taking his diploma in 1936. It was also here that he met his wife, Peggy (Margaret Guido). In 1937 he published another seminal paper, \"The early Bronze Age in Wessex\", and with his wife went on in June 1939 to join the burial chamber excavations at Sutton Hoo at the invitation of Charles Phillips.\n\nDuring the Second World War Piggott worked as an air photo interpreter. He was posted to India, where he spent time studying the archaeology of the sub-continent, eventually leading him to write the books \"Some Ancient Cities of India\" (1946) and \"Prehistoric India\" (1950). These experiences provided him with a valuable external view of European prehistory, which was to prove useful on his return to Britain.\n\nAfter the war he went to Oxford to study the work of William Stukeley, but in 1946 was offered the Abercromby Chair in Archaeology at Edinburgh University (now part of the School of History, Classics and Archaeology), in succession to Gordon Childe. Piggott succeeded in making Edinburgh an archaeology department of international standing. He continued to publish widely. His book \"Neolithic Cultures of the British Isles\" (1954) was highly influential, until radiocarbon dating tests exposed flaws in its chronology. Piggott considered that radiocarbon dating was \"archaeologically unacceptable\", because every other shred of evidence pointed towards his dates being correct. \"Ancient Europe\" (1965) remained a popular survey of Old World prehistory for more than twenty years, demonstrating his view of the solidarity and continuity of the past in Europe. In 1956 his childless marriage ended.\n\nIn 1958 Piggott published a survey of Scottish prehistory, \"Scotland before History\", and in 1959 a popular introductory volume, \"Approach to Archaeology\". He was president of the Prehistoric Society from 1960 to 1963, president of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland from 1963 to 1967, president of the Council for British Archaeology from 1967 to 1970, and a trustee of the British Museum between 1968 and 1974). In 1963, he produced a thorough analysis of the Beaker culture in Britain, published as part of a Festschrift dedicated to Cyril Fox. Piggott's interest in the early history of the practice of archaeology led to him writing \"The Druids\" in 1968 whilst other books included \"Prehistoric Societies\" (with Grahame Clark), \"The Earliest Wheeled Transport\" (1983), followed by its sequel, \"Wagon, Chariot and Carriage\" (1992). His final book was \"Ancient Britain and the Antiquarian Imagination\" (1989).\n\nHe died of a heart attack at his home near Wantage in Berkshire on 23 September 1996. His remains were cremated on 30 September at Oxford crematorium.\n\nIn 1936 he married Cecily Margaret Preston. They were divorced in 1954.\n\nSites he excavated (often with Richard Atkinson) included:\n\n\nIn 1957 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Robert Schlapp, David Whitteridge, Sidney Newman, and James Ritchie.\n\nHe received the CBE in 1972, and was awarded numerous academic awards from scholarly institutions in Britain and abroad. He retired from the Abercromby Chair in 1977 and was awarded the gold medal of the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1983 and the Grahame Clark Medal of the British Academy in 1992.\n\nMegaw noted that \"as he himself has said, although he has done his fair share of field work and excavation, his prime concern has been to produce works of synthesis and interpretation\". Megaw noted that Piggott viewed \"archaeology as an oyster to be savoured whole and not simply to be subjected to the minutiae of macrofaunal and calorific analyses.\" The historian Ronald Hutton stated that it was \"one aspect of his greatness that he fostered the study of early modern antiquaries as an integral part of the self-awareness of his profession.\"\n\nIn 1968 a number of Piggott's former pupils and colleagues assembled a collection of essays in dedication to him, titled \"Studies in Ancient Europe\". In 1976 Megaw then published a second \"Festschrift\" which brought in consideration of Piggott's work on the archaeology of Asia and the Americas too.\n\nMarjorie Robertson compiled a list of Piggott's books up to 1975 for his \"festschrift\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49072098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49072098", "title": "Suzanne Simone Baptiste Louverture", "text": "Suzanne Simone Baptiste Louverture\n\nSuzanne Simone Baptiste Louverture (around 1742 – May 19, 1816 in Agen, France) was the wife of Toussaint Louverture and the \"Dame-Consort\" of the French colony of Saint-Domingue.\n\nAfter being a coachman and a driver, Toussaint was freed at the age of thirty-three, and then married Suzanne Simone Baptiste.\n\nWhen in 1801 the constitution appointed Toussaint as governor of Saint-Domingue, she received the title of \"Dame-Consort.\" \n\nIn 1802, Charles Leclerc's troops captured her along with her husband and the rest of her immediate family. Madame Louverture survived her husband, who died that same year, and her youngest child Saint-Jean, who died in 1804 in Agen, France. She died in 1816, in the arms of her sons, Placide and Isaac.\n\n"}
{"id": "55831920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55831920", "title": "Sydney A. E. Sorton", "text": "Sydney A. E. Sorton\n\nSydney Alton Eugene Sorton (born 2 July 1947) is a politician from Saba, who currently holds the office of Acting-Judge with the Joint Court of Justice. Before this, Sorton was the Lieutenant Governor of Saba on two occasions, serving from 2 November 1989 to 19 November 1998 and from 1 April 2006 to 2 July 2008. Prior to that Sorton was an law enforcement civil servant for Netherlands Antilles Police Force.\n"}
{"id": "8998936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8998936", "title": "Tiffany Lee Brown", "text": "Tiffany Lee Brown\n\nTiffany Lee Brown is an American writer, editor, and interdisciplinary artist. She is from Portland, Oregon.\n\nAuthor of \"A Compendium of Miniatures\" (Tiger Food Press, 2007), Brown is an editor at PLAZM magazine; she was formerly an editor at 2GQ (2 Gyrlz Quarterly), Anodyne magazine, Signum Press online, Future Sex magazine, and FringeWare Review. Her writing has appeared in Utne, Tin House, Oregon Humanities, Wired, Bust, and Bookforum. Her performances and interdisciplinary pieces have been presented by Portland Center Stage's JAW Festival, Performance Arts NorthWest, the Enteractive Language Festival, Portland Institute for Contemporary Art's Dada Ball, the Portland Rose Festival, and the Dark Arts Festival. In the early 1990s Brown was on the staff of The WELL in Sausalito, California.\n\nHer largest interdisciplinary work is \"The Easter Island Project,\" encompassing participatory art, installation art, video, writing, musical composition, and performance, created and presented throughout 2007–2013. Art critic Richard Speer described it this way: \"The subject of this intensely personal exhibition is Brown’s evolving views about motherhood. At the beginning of her journey, she was a passionate 'childless by choice' activist; then her biological clock began to tick loudly and she found herself unhappily child-free; finally, she and her husband, Josh Berger, became the parents of a bright-eyed baby boy. The complicated emotions surrounding this evolution were the reason for Brown’s trip to the island of Rapa Nui (Easter Island), where she performed fertility-related rituals beneath the towering stone heads for which that island is known. Her talk promises to be self-revelatory, compassionate and humorous.\"\n\nThe Easter Island Project's \"art gatherings,\" installations, and performances occurred at venues in New York, Seattle, Portland, Oakland, Prescott Arizona, and in several Pacific Northwest locations. Inara Verzemnieks wrote in The Oregonian newspaper: \"As an artist, she had always sought to be fearless, to tackle difficult subjects, to provoke discussion. 'With Tiffany, things are not theoretical,\" says Stephanie Snyder, curator and director of the Douglas F. Cooley Memorial Art Gallery at Reed College. 'With her, it's always about the lived issues.'\"\n\nBrown and has been affiliated with the dUdU art collective since the early 1990s. She chaired the Board of Directors for the non-profit organization 2 Gyrlz Performative Arts, and Director of the non-profit New Oregon Arts+ Letters since 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "19805154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19805154", "title": "Tilhas Tizig Gesheften", "text": "Tilhas Tizig Gesheften\n\nTilhas Teezee Gesheften (commonly known by its acronym TTG) was the name of a group of Jewish Brigade members formed immediately following World War II. Under the guise of British military activity, this group engaged in the assassination of Nazis and SS conspirators, facilitated the illegal emigration of Holocaust survivors to Israel, and smuggled weaponry for the Haganah.\n\nThe three words that make up the phrase are Arabic [, \"tilhas tizi\", \"lick my ass\"] and Yiddish [געשעפטן, \"gesheften\", \"business\"], combined to form a modern Hebrew slang expression, meaning \"You-lick-my-ass business.\" It has been more colloquially translated as \"up your ass/götveren\", whereas \"götveren\" is a vulgar Turkish slang term for \"queer/fag/faggot\".\n\nFollowing the collapse of Nazi Germany and before the establishment of the State of Israel, the majority of Jews in Europe were living without clarification of their legal and national statuses. The majority of them were classified as displaced persons, though where they were displaced from and where they ought to be relocated to were points of contention. The official position of the Haganah, as defined by David Ben-Gurion and the Jewish Agency, was that European Jewry had been treated so differently that its members needed to continue to be differently treated. Therefore, in opposition to the policies of quota immigration imposed by the British White Paper, they sought to permit and facilitate unlimited Jewish immigration of Holocaust survivors to Mandate Palestine.\n\nThe TTG Brigade was created by Israel Carmi, who was an officer of the Jewish Brigade while concurrently acting as a senior representative of the then-underground Haganah. Carmi was initially engaged in revenge operations against those believed to have been responsible, at least in part, for the Shoah. Along with certain of his fellow soldiers in the Jewish Brigade, he was responsible for executing hundreds of Germans, Austrians, and Italians. Most of these were identified by Carmi and his men as having been active members of the SS or otherwise as having assisted in the deportation or extermination of Jews within the Nazi sphere of influence.\n\nThe TTG Brigade came into existence when Carmi falsely identified himself at a checkpoint to confuse a sentry and allow him and his companions to have unhindered passage. It led to the creation of fictional paperwork, seals, passes, orders, requisition forms, and even unit uniforms and insignia.\n\nAs Carmi's goals shifted from revenge to rescue, so too did the TTG Brigade become more and more an instrument for the liberation of displaced persons and their eventual passage to Palestine. The function of the TTG was first and foremost to provide the illusion of official status before occupying Allied forces. This allowed the members of the Brigade to engage in rescue activities without undue interruption or objection from the occupying powers. Purporting to act as if they were under orders as part of the TTG Brigade allowed its members to pass through roadblocks, military checkpoints, and international borders, often with large numbers of displaced Jews in their care.\n\nThe second function of the group, which developed over time, was to extract from the Allied forces the greatest quantity of material and personnel assistance for the rescue efforts of the Brigade's members. This included the fictional group's requisition and use of civilian and military vehicles, gasoline, rations, medical supplies, and other such materiel. The Brigade was also involved, with the assistance of false TTG paperwork, in the acquisition of large quantities of small arms and other martial equipment for use by the Haganah in Palestine. \nThe first goal of the group, illegal emigration, became less important as military control of civilian movement became less strict. The group's Zionist goals, centering on illegal immigration to Palestine (\"ha-apalah\"), became obsolete with the acceptance of the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine and the establishment of Israel as a recognized state. As more and more allied forces withdrew from Europe, fewer resources were available for acquisition by the members of TTG. Likewise, as war between Israel and her neighbors loomed, the military skills they had accumulated encouraged withdrawal of most of them to serve as officers in the newly formed Israeli Defense Forces. \n\nMost of the Jews who were rescued in this manner made aliyah to Israel, where they settled in the cities or else became kibbutzniks. Many of these actively supported the war effort during the Israeli War of Independence. The arms and materials stolen by the TTG contributed to the Israeli war effort and warmaking capacity. Most of the members of the TTG Brigade entered service in the Haganah and fought as part of the IDF during the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33783", "title": "Wernher von Braun", "text": "Wernher von Braun\n\nWernher Magnus Maximilian Freiherr von Braun (March 23, 1912 – June 16, 1977) was a German (and, later, American) aerospace engineer and space architect. He was the leading figure in the development of rocket technology in Germany and the father of rocket technology and space science in the United States.\n\nWhile in his twenties and early thirties, von Braun worked in Nazi Germany's rocket development program. He helped design and develop the V-2 rocket at Peenemünde during World War II. Following the war, he was secretly moved to the United States, along with about 1,600 other German scientists, engineers, and technicians, as part of Operation Paperclip. He worked for the United States Army on an intermediate-range ballistic missile (IRBM) program, and he developed the rockets that launched the United States' first space satellite Explorer 1. His group was assimilated into NASA, where he served as director of the newly formed Marshall Space Flight Center and as the chief architect of the Saturn V super heavy-lift launch vehicle that propelled the Apollo spacecraft to the Moon. In 1975, von Braun received the National Medal of Science. He advocated a human mission to Mars.\n\nWernher von Braun was born on March 23, 1912, in the small town of Wirsitz, in the Posen Province, in what was then the German Empire and is now Poland. He was the second of three sons. He belonged to a noble Lutheran family, and from birth he held the title of \"Freiherr\" (equivalent to Baron). The German nobility's legal privileges were abolished in 1919, although noble titles could still be used as part of the family name.\n\nHis father, Magnus Freiherr von Braun (1878–1972), was a civil servant and conservative politician; he served as Minister of Agriculture in the federal government during the Weimar Republic. His mother, Emmy von Quistorp (1886–1959), traced her ancestry through both parents to medieval European royalty and was a descendant of Philip III of France, Valdemar I of Denmark, Robert III of Scotland, and Edward III of England. Wernher had an older brother, the West German diplomat Sigismund von Braun, who served as Secretary of State in the Foreign Office in the 1970s, and a younger brother, also named Magnus von Braun, who was a rocket scientist and later a senior executive with Chrysler.\n\nAfter Wernher's confirmation, his mother gave him a telescope, and he developed a passion for astronomy. The family moved to Berlin in 1915, where his father worked at the Ministry of the Interior. Here in 1924, the 12-year-old Wernher, inspired by speed records established by Max Valier and Fritz von Opel in rocket-propelled cars, caused a major disruption in a crowded street by detonating a toy wagon to which he had attached fireworks. He was taken into custody by the local police until his father came to get him.\n\nWernher learned to play both the cello and the piano at an early age and at one time wanted to become a composer. He took lessons from the composer Paul Hindemith. The few pieces of Wernher's youthful compositions that exist are reminiscent of Hindemith's style. He could play piano pieces of Beethoven and Bach from memory.\n\nBeginning in 1925, Wernher attended a boarding school at Ettersburg Castle near Weimar, where he did not do well in physics and mathematics. There he acquired a copy of \"By Rocket into Planetary Space\" (\"Die Rakete zu den Planetenräumen\", 1923) by rocket pioneer Hermann Oberth. In 1928, his parents moved him to the Hermann-Lietz-Internat (also a residential school) on the East Frisian North Sea island of Spiekeroog. Space travel had always fascinated Wernher, and from then on he applied himself to physics and mathematics to pursue his interest in rocket engineering.\n\nIn 1930, von Braun attended the Technische Hochschule Berlin, where he joined the \"Spaceflight Society\" (\"Verein für Raumschiffahrt\" or \"VfR\") and assisted Willy Ley in his liquid-fueled rocket motor tests in conjunction with Hermann Oberth. In spring 1932, he graduated from the \"Technische Hochschule Berlin\" (now Technical University of Berlin), with a diploma in mechanical engineering. His early exposure to rocketry convinced him that the exploration of space would require far more than applications of the current engineering technology. Wanting to learn more about physics, chemistry, and astronomy, von Braun entered the Friedrich-Wilhelm University of Berlin for post-graduate studies and graduated with a doctorate in physics in 1934. He also studied at ETH Zürich for a term from June to October 1931. Although he worked mainly on military rockets in his later years there, space travel remained his primary interest.\n\nIn 1930, von Braun attended a presentation given by Auguste Piccard. After the talk, the young student approached the famous pioneer of high-altitude balloon flight, and stated to him: \"You know, I plan on traveling to the Moon at some time.\" Piccard is said to have responded with encouraging words.\n\nWernher von Braun was greatly influenced by Oberth, of whom he said:\n\nAccording to historian Norman Davies, von Braun was able to pursue a career as a rocket scientist in Germany due to a \"curious oversight\" in the Treaty of Versailles which did not include rocketry in its list of weapons forbidden to Germany.\n\nVon Braun had an ambivalent and complex relationship with the Nazi regime of the Third Reich. He officially applied for membership in the Nazi Party on November 12, 1937, and was issued membership number 5,738,692.\n\nMichael J. Neufeld, a widely published author of aerospace history and chief of the Space History Division at the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum, wrote that ten years after von Braun obtained his Nazi Party membership, he signed an affidavit for the U.S. Army misrepresenting the year of his membership, saying incorrectly:\n\nIn 1939, I was officially demanded to join the National Socialist Party. At this time I was already Technical Director at the Army Rocket Center at Peenemünde (Baltic Sea). The technical work carried out there had, in the meantime, attracted more and more attention in higher levels. Thus, my refusal to join the party would have meant that I would have to abandon the work of my life. Therefore, I decided to join. My membership in the party did not involve any political activity.\n\nWhether von Braun's error with regard to the year was deliberate or a simple mistake has never been ascertained, although Neufeld stated that he might have lied on the affidavit. Neufeld further wrote:\n\nVon Braun, like other Peenemünders, was assigned to the local group in Karlshagen; there is no evidence that he did more than send in his monthly dues. But he is seen in some photographs with the party's swastika pin in his lapel – it was politically useful to demonstrate his membership.\n\nVon Braun's later attitude toward the National Socialist regime of the late 1930s and early 1940s was complex. He said that he had been so influenced by the early Nazi promise of release from the post–World War I economic effects, that his patriotic feelings had increased. In a 1952 memoir article he admitted that, at that time, he \"fared relatively rather well under totalitarianism\". Yet, he also wrote that \"to us, Hitler was still only a pompous fool with a Charlie Chaplin moustache\" and that he perceived him as \"another Napoleon\" who was \"wholly without scruples, a godless man who thought himself the only god\".\n\nVon Braun joined the SS horseback riding school on 1 November 1933 as an \"SS-Anwärter\". He left the following year. In 1940, he joined the SS and was given the rank of Untersturmführer in the Allgemeine SS and issued membership number 185,068. In 1947, he gave the U.S. War Department this explanation:\n\nWhen shown a picture of himself standing behind Himmler, von Braun claimed to have worn the SS uniform only that one time, but in 2002 a former SS officer at Peenemünde told the BBC that von Braun had regularly worn the SS uniform to official meetings. He began as an Untersturmführer (Second lieutenant) and was promoted three times by Himmler, the last time in June 1943 to SS-Sturmbannführer (Major). Von Braun later claimed that these were simply technical promotions received each year regularly by mail.\n\nIn 1933, von Braun was working on his creative doctorate when the National Socialist German Workers Party (NSDAP, or Nazi Party) came to power in a coalition government in Germany; rocketry was almost immediately moved onto the national agenda. An artillery captain, Walter Dornberger, arranged an Ordnance Department research grant for von Braun, who then worked next to Dornberger's existing solid-fuel rocket test site at Kummersdorf.\n\nVon Braun was awarded a doctorate in physics (aerospace engineering) on July 27, 1934, from the University of Berlin for a thesis entitled \"About Combustion Tests\"; his doctoral supervisor was Erich Schumann. However, this thesis was only the public part of von Braun's work. His actual full thesis, \"Construction, Theoretical, and Experimental Solution to the Problem of the Liquid Propellant Rocket\" (dated April 16, 1934) was kept classified by the German army, and was not published until 1960. By the end of 1934, his group had successfully launched two liquid fuel rockets that rose to heights of 2.2 and .\n\nAt the time, Germany was highly interested in American physicist Robert H. Goddard's research. Before 1939, German scientists occasionally contacted Goddard directly with technical questions. Wernher von Braun used Goddard's plans from various journals and incorporated them into the building of the \"Aggregat\" (A) series of rockets. The A-4 rocket would become well known as the V-2. In 1963, von Braun reflected on the history of rocketry, and said of Goddard's work: \"His rockets ... may have been rather crude by present-day standards, but they blazed the trail and incorporated many features used in our most modern rockets and space vehicles.\"\n\nGoddard confirmed his work was used by von Braun in 1944, shortly before the Nazis began firing V-2s at England. A V-2 crashed in Sweden and some parts were sent to an Annapolis lab where Goddard was doing research for the Navy. If this was the so-called Bäckebo Bomb, it had been procured by the British in exchange for Spitfires; Annapolis would have received some parts from them. Goddard is reported to have recognized components he had invented, and inferred that his brainchild had been turned into a weapon. Later, von Braun would comment: \"I have very deep and sincere regret for the victims of the V-2 rockets, but there were victims on both sides ... A war is a war, and when my country is at war, my duty is to help win that war.\"\n\nIn response to Goddard's claims, von Braun said \"at no time in Germany did I or any of my associates ever see a Goddard patent\". This was independently confirmed. He wrote that claims about him lifting Goddard's work were the furthest from the truth, noting that Goddard's paper \"A Method of Reaching Extreme Altitudes\", which was studied by von Braun and Oberth, lacked the specificity of liquid-fuel experimentation with rockets. It was also confirmed that he was responsible for an estimated 20 patentable innovations related to rocketry during the \"Volksverhetzung\" era, as well as receiving U.S. patents after the war concerning the advancement of rocketry. Documented accounts also stated he provided solutions to a host of aerospace engineering problems in the 1950s and 60s.\n\nThere were no German rocket societies after the collapse of the VfR, and civilian rocket tests were forbidden by the new Nazi regime. Only military development was allowed, and to this end, a larger facility was erected at the village of Peenemünde in northern Germany on the Baltic Sea. Dornberger became the military commander at Peenemünde, with von Braun as technical director. In collaboration with the Luftwaffe, the Peenemünde group developed liquid-fuel rocket engines for aircraft and jet-assisted takeoffs. They also developed the long-range A-4 ballistic missile and the supersonic Wasserfall anti-aircraft missile.\nOn December 22, 1942, Adolf Hitler ordered the production of the A-4 as a \"vengeance weapon\", and the Peenemünde group developed it to target London. Following von Braun's July 7, 1943 presentation of a color movie showing an A-4 taking off, Hitler was so enthusiastic that he personally made von Braun a professor shortly thereafter. In Germany at this time, this was an exceptional promotion for an engineer who was only 31 years old.\n\nBy that time, the British and Soviet intelligence agencies were aware of the rocket program and von Braun's team at Peenemünde, based on the intelligence provided by the Polish underground Home Army. Over the nights of August 17–18, 1943, RAF Bomber Command's Operation Hydra dispatched raids on the Peenemünde camp consisting of 596 aircraft, and dropped 1,800 tons of explosives. The facility was salvaged and most of the engineering team remained unharmed; however, the raids killed von Braun's engine designer Walter Thiel and Chief Engineer Walther, and the rocket program was delayed.\nThe first combat A-4, renamed the V-2 (\"Vergeltungswaffe 2\" \"Retaliation/Vengeance Weapon 2\") for propaganda purposes, was launched toward England on September 7, 1944, only 21 months after the project had been officially commissioned. Von Braun's interest in rockets was specifically for the application of space travel, not for killing people. After hearing the news from London, he said that \"the rocket worked perfectly, except for landing on the wrong planet.\" Satirist Mort Sahl has been credited with mocking von Braun by saying \"I aim at the stars, but sometimes I hit London.\" That line appears in the film \"I Aim at the Stars\", a 1960 biopic of von Braun.\n\nDuring 1936, von Braun's rocketry team working at Kummersdorf investigated installing liquid-fuelled rockets in aircraft. Ernst Heinkel enthusiastically supported their efforts, supplying a He-72 and later two He-112s for the experiments. Later in 1936, Erich Warsitz was seconded by the RLM to Wernher von Braun and Ernst Heinkel, because he had been recognized as one of the most experienced test pilots of the time, and because he also had an extraordinary fund of technical knowledge. After he familiarized Warsitz with a test-stand run, showing him the corresponding apparatus in the aircraft, he asked: \"Are you with us and will you test the rocket in the air? Then, Warsitz, you will be a famous man. And later we will fly to the Moon – with you at the helm!\"\nIn June 1937, at Neuhardenberg (a large field about east of Berlin, listed as a reserve airfield in the event of war), one of these latter aircraft was flown with its piston engine shut down during flight by Warsitz, at which time it was propelled by von Braun's rocket power alone. Despite a wheels-up landing and the fuselage having been on fire, it proved to official circles that an aircraft could be flown satisfactorily with a back-thrust system through the rear.\n\nAt the same time, Hellmuth Walter's experiments into hydrogen peroxide based rockets were leading towards light and simple rockets that appeared well-suited for aircraft installation. Also the firm of Hellmuth Walter at Kiel had been commissioned by the RLM to build a rocket engine for the He 112, so there were two different new rocket motor designs at Neuhardenberg: whereas von Braun's engines were powered by alcohol and liquid oxygen, Walter engines had hydrogen peroxide and calcium permanganate as a catalyst. Von Braun's engines used direct combustion and created fire, the Walter devices used hot vapors from a chemical reaction, but both created thrust and provided high speed. The subsequent flights with the He-112 used the Walter-rocket instead of von Braun's; it was more reliable, simpler to operate, and safer for the test pilot, Warsitz.\n\nSS General Hans Kammler, who as an engineer had constructed several concentration camps, including Auschwitz, had a reputation for brutality and had originated the idea of using concentration camp prisoners as slave laborers in the rocket program. Arthur Rudolph, chief engineer of the V-2 rocket factory at Peenemünde, endorsed this idea in April 1943 when a labor shortage developed. More people died building the V-2 rockets than were killed by it as a weapon. Von Braun admitted visiting the plant at Mittelwerk on many occasions, and called conditions at the plant \"repulsive\", but claimed never to have witnessed any deaths or beatings, although it had become clear to him by 1944 that deaths had occurred. He denied ever having visited the Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp itself, where 20,000 died from illness, beatings, hangings, and intolerable working conditions.\n\nSome prisoners claim von Braun engaged in brutal treatment or approved of it. Guy Morand, a French resistance fighter who was a prisoner in Dora, testified in 1995 that after an apparent sabotage attempt, von Braun ordered a prisoner to be flogged, while Robert Cazabonne, another French prisoner, claimed von Braun stood by as prisoners were hanged by chains suspended by cranes. However, these accounts may have been a case of mistaken identity. Former Buchenwald inmate Adam Cabala claims that von Braun went to the concentration camp to pick slave laborers:\n\n[...] also the German scientists led by Prof. Wernher von Braun were aware of everything daily. As they went along the corridors, they saw the exhaustion of the inmates, their arduous work and their pain. Not one single time did Prof. Wernher von Braun protest against this cruelty during his frequent stays at Dora. Even the aspect of corpses did not touch him: On a small area near the ambulance shed, inmates tortured to death by slave labor and the terror of the overseers were piling up daily. But, Prof. Wernher von Braun passed them so close that he was almost touching the corpses.\n\nVon Braun later claimed that he was aware of the treatment of prisoners, but felt helpless to change the situation.\nAccording to André Sellier, a French historian and survivor of the Mittelbau-Dora concentration camp, Heinrich Himmler had von Braun come to his Feldkommandostelle Hochwald HQ in East Prussia in February 1944. To increase his power-base within the Nazi regime, Himmler was conspiring to use Kammler to gain control of all German armament programs, including the V-2 program at Peenemünde. He therefore recommended that von Braun work more closely with Kammler to solve the problems of the V-2. Von Braun claimed to have replied that the problems were merely technical and he was confident that they would be solved with Dornberger's assistance.\n\nVon Braun had been under SD surveillance since October 1943. A report stated that he and his colleagues Riedel and Gröttrup were said to have expressed regret at an engineer's house one evening that they were not working on a spaceship and that they felt the war was not going well; this was considered a \"defeatist\" attitude. A young female dentist who was an SS spy reported their comments. Combined with Himmler's false charges that von Braun was a communist sympathizer and had attempted to sabotage the V-2 program, and considering that von Braun regularly piloted his government-provided airplane that might allow him to escape to England, this led to his arrest by the Gestapo.\n\nThe unsuspecting von Braun was detained on March 14 (or March 15), 1944, and was taken to a Gestapo cell in Stettin (now Szczecin, Poland), where he was held for two weeks without knowing the charges against him.\n\nThrough the Abwehr in Berlin, Dornberger obtained von Braun's conditional release and Albert Speer, Reichsminister for Munitions and War Production, persuaded Hitler to reinstate von Braun so that the V-2 program could continue or turn into a \"V-4 program\" which in their view would be impossible without von Braun's leadership. In his memoirs, Speer states Hitler had finally conceded that von Braun was to be \"protected from all prosecution as long as he is indispensable, difficult though the general consequences arising from the situation.\"\n\nThe Soviet Army was about from Peenemünde in the spring of 1945 when von Braun assembled his planning staff and asked them to decide how and to whom they should surrender. Unwilling to go to the Soviets, von Braun and his staff decided to try to surrender to the Americans. Kammler had ordered relocation of his team to central Germany; however, a conflicting order from an army chief ordered them to join the army and fight. Deciding that Kammler's order was their best bet to defect to the Americans, von Braun fabricated documents and transported 500 of his affiliates to the area around Mittelwerk, where they resumed their work. For fear of their documents being destroyed by the SS, von Braun ordered the blueprints to be hidden in an abandoned mine shaft in the Harz mountain range.\n\nWhile on an official trip in March, von Braun suffered a complicated fracture of his left arm and shoulder in a car accident after his driver fell asleep at the wheel. His injuries were serious, but he insisted that his arm be set in a cast so he could leave the hospital. Due to this neglect of the injury he had to be hospitalized again a month later where his bones had to be re-broken and re-aligned.\n\nIn April, as the Allied forces advanced deeper into Germany, Kammler ordered the engineering team to be moved by train into the town of Oberammergau in the Bavarian Alps where they were closely guarded by the SS with orders to execute the team if they were about to fall into enemy hands. However, von Braun managed to convince SS Major Kummer to order the dispersal of the group into nearby villages so that they would not be an easy target for U.S. bombers.\n\nVon Braun and a large number of the engineering team subsequently made it to Austria. On May 2, 1945, upon finding an American private from the U.S. 44th Infantry Division, von Braun's brother and fellow rocket engineer, Magnus, approached the soldier on a bicycle, calling out in broken English: \"My name is Magnus von Braun. My brother invented the V-2. We want to surrender.\" After the surrender, Wernher spoke to the press:\n\nWe knew that we had created a new means of warfare, and the question as to what nation, to what victorious nation we were willing to entrust this brainchild of ours was a moral decision more than anything else. We wanted to see the world spared another conflict such as Germany had just been through, and we felt that only by surrendering such a weapon to people who are guided by the Bible could such an assurance to the world be best secured.\nThe American high command was well aware of how important their catch was: von Braun had been at the top of \"the Black List\", the code name for the list of German scientists and engineers targeted for immediate interrogation by U.S. military experts. On June 19, 1945, two days before the scheduled handover of the Nordhausen area to the Soviets, U.S. Army Major Robert B. Staver, Chief of the Jet Propulsion Section of the Research and Intelligence Branch of the U.S. Army Ordnance Corps in London, and Lt Col R. L. Williams took von Braun and his department chiefs by Jeep from Garmisch to Munich and then flown to Nordhausen; on the next day the group was evacuated southwest to Witzenhausen, a small town in the American Zone.\n\nVon Braun was briefly detained at the \"Dustbin\" interrogation center at Kransberg Castle where the elite of the Third Reich's economy, science and technology were debriefed by U.S. and British intelligence officials. Initially he was recruited to the U.S. under a program called Operation Overcast, subsequently known as Operation Paperclip. There is evidence, however, that British intelligence and scientists were the first to interview him in depth, eager to gain information that they knew U.S. officials would deny them. The team included the young L.S. Snell, then the leading British rocket engineer, later chief designer of Rolls-Royce Limited and inventor of the Concorde's engines. The specific information the British gleaned remained top secret, both from the Americans and other allies.\n\nOn June 20, 1945, the U.S. Secretary of State approved the transfer of von Braun and his specialists to America; however, this was not announced to the public until October 1, 1945. Von Braun was among those scientists for whom the Joint Intelligence Objectives Agency (JIOA) arguably falsified employment histories and expunged NSDAP memberships. \n\nThe first seven technicians arrived in the United States at New Castle Army Air Field, just south of Wilmington, Delaware, on September 20, 1945. They were then flown to Boston and taken by boat to the Army Intelligence Service post at Fort Strong in Boston Harbor. Later, with the exception of von Braun, the men were transferred to Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland to sort out the Peenemünde documents, enabling the scientists to continue their rocketry experiments.\n\nFinally, von Braun and his remaining Peenemünde staff (see List of German rocket scientists in the United States) were transferred to their new home at Fort Bliss, a large Army installation just north of El Paso. Von Braun would later write he found it hard to develop a \"genuine emotional attachment\" to his new surroundings. His chief design engineer Walther Reidel became the subject of a December 1946 article \"German Scientist Says American Cooking Tasteless; Dislikes Rubberized Chicken\", exposing the presence of von Braun's team in the country and drawing criticism from Albert Einstein and John Dingell. Requests to improve their living conditions such as laying linoleum over their cracked wood flooring were rejected. Von Braun remarked, \"at Peenemünde we had been coddled, here you were counting pennies\". At Peenemünde, von Braun had thousands of engineers who answered to him, but was now answering to \"pimply\" 26-year-old Major Jim Hamill who possessed an undergraduate degree in engineering. His loyal Germans still addressed him as Herr Professor, but Hamill addressed him as Wernher and never responded to von Braun's request for more materials. Every proposal for new rocket ideas was dismissed.\nWhile there, they trained military, industrial, and university personnel in the intricacies of rockets and guided missiles. As part of the Hermes project, they helped refurbish, assemble, and launch a number of V-2s that had been shipped from Germany to the White Sands Proving Ground in New Mexico. They also continued to study the future potential of rockets for military and research applications. Since they were not permitted to leave Fort Bliss without military escort, von Braun and his colleagues began to refer to themselves only half-jokingly as \"PoPs\" – \"Prisoners of Peace\".\n\nIn 1950, at the start of the Korean War, von Braun and his team were transferred to Huntsville, Alabama, his home for the next 20 years. Between 1952 and 1956, von Braun led the Army's rocket development team at Redstone Arsenal, resulting in the Redstone rocket, which was used for the first live nuclear ballistic missile tests conducted by the United States. He personally witnessed this historic launch and detonation. Work on the Redstone led to development of the first high-precision inertial guidance system on the Redstone rocket.\n\nAs director of the Development Operations Division of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency, von Braun, with his team, then developed the Jupiter-C, a modified Redstone rocket. The Jupiter-C successfully launched the West's first satellite, Explorer 1, on January 31, 1958. This event signaled the birth of America's space program.\n\nDespite the work on the Redstone rocket, the 12 years from 1945 to 1957 were probably some of the most frustrating for von Braun and his colleagues. In the Soviet Union, Sergei Korolev and his team of scientists and engineers plowed ahead with several new rocket designs and the Sputnik program, while the American government was not very interested in von Braun's work or views and embarked only on a very modest rocket-building program. In the meantime, the press tended to dwell on von Braun's past as a member of the SS and the slave labor used to build his V-2 rockets.\n\nRepeating the pattern he had established during his earlier career in Germany, von Braun – while directing military rocket development in the real world – continued to entertain his engineer-scientist's dream of a future in which rockets would be used for space exploration. However, he was no longer at risk of being sacked – as American public opinion of Germans began to recover, von Braun found himself increasingly in a position to popularize his ideas. The May 14, 1950, headline of \"The Huntsville Times\" (\"Dr. von Braun Says Rocket Flights Possible to Moon\") might have marked the beginning of these efforts. Von Braun's ideas rode a publicity wave that was created by science fiction movies and stories.\nIn 1952, von Braun first published his concept of a manned space station in a \"Collier's Weekly\" magazine series of articles titled \"Man Will Conquer Space Soon!\". These articles were illustrated by the space artist Chesley Bonestell and were influential in spreading his ideas. Frequently, von Braun worked with fellow German-born space advocate and science writer Willy Ley to publish his concepts, which, unsurprisingly, were heavy on the engineering side and anticipated many technical aspects of space flight that later became reality.\n\nThe space station (to be constructed using rockets with recoverable and reusable ascent stages) would be a toroid structure, with a diameter of ; this built on the concept of a rotating wheel-shaped station introduced in 1929 by Herman Potočnik in his book \"The Problem of Space Travel – The Rocket Motor\". The space station would spin around a central docking nave to provide artificial gravity, and would be assembled in a two-hour, high-inclination Earth orbit allowing observation of essentially every point on Earth on at least a daily basis. The ultimate purpose of the space station would be to provide an assembly platform for manned lunar expeditions. More than a decade later, the movie version of would draw heavily on the design concept in its visualization of an orbital space station.\n\nVon Braun envisaged these expeditions as very large-scale undertakings, with a total of 50 astronauts traveling in three huge spacecraft (two for crew, one primarily for cargo), each long and in diameter and driven by a rectangular array of 30 rocket propulsion engines. Upon arrival, astronauts would establish a permanent lunar base in the Sinus Roris region by using the emptied cargo holds of their craft as shelters, and would explore their surroundings for eight weeks. This would include a expedition in pressurized rovers to the crater Harpalus and the Mare Imbrium foothills.\nAt this time, von Braun also worked out preliminary concepts for a manned mission to Mars that used the space station as a staging point. His initial plans, published in \"The Mars Project\" (1952), had envisaged a fleet of 10 spacecraft (each with a mass of 3,720 metric tonnes), three of them unmanned and each carrying one 200-tonne winged lander in addition to cargo, and nine crew vehicles transporting a total of 70 astronauts. Gigantic as this mission plan was, its engineering and astronautical parameters were thoroughly calculated. A later project was much more modest, using only one purely orbital cargo ship and one crewed craft. In each case, the expedition would use minimum-energy Hohmann transfer orbits for its trips to Mars and back to Earth.\n\nBefore technically formalizing his thoughts on human spaceflight to Mars, von Braun had written a science fiction novel on the subject, set in the year 1980. However, the manuscript was rejected by no fewer than 18 publishers. Von Braun later published small portions of this opus in magazines, to illustrate selected aspects of his Mars project popularizations. The complete manuscript, titled \"Project MARS: A Technical Tale\", did not appear as a printed book until December 2006.\n\nIn the hope that its involvement would bring about greater public interest in the future of the space program, von Braun also began working with Walt Disney and the Disney studios as a technical director, initially for three television films about space exploration. The initial broadcast devoted to space exploration was \"Man in Space\", which first went on air on March 9, 1955, drawing 40 million viewers.\n\nLater (in 1959) von Braun published a short booklet, condensed from episodes that had appeared in \"This Week Magazine\" before—describing his updated concept of the first manned lunar landing. The scenario included only a single and relatively small spacecraft—a winged lander with a crew of only two experienced pilots who had already circumnavigated the Moon on an earlier mission. The brute-force direct ascent flight schedule used a rocket design with five sequential stages, loosely based on the Nova designs that were under discussion at this time. After a night launch from a Pacific island, the first three stages would bring the spacecraft (with the two remaining upper stages attached) to terrestrial escape velocity, with each burn creating an acceleration of 8–9 times standard gravity. Residual propellant in the third stage would be used for the deceleration intended to commence only a few hundred kilometers above the landing site in a crater near the lunar north pole. The fourth stage provided acceleration to lunar escape velocity, while the fifth stage would be responsible for a deceleration during return to the Earth to a residual speed that allows aerocapture of the spacecraft ending in a runway landing, much in the way of the Space Shuttle. One remarkable feature of this technical tale is that the engineer Wernher von Braun anticipated a medical phenomenon that would become apparent only years later: being a veteran astronaut with no history of serious adverse reactions to weightlessness offers no protection against becoming unexpectedly and violently spacesick.\n\nIn the first half of his life, von Braun was a nonpracticing, \"perfunctory\" Lutheran, whose affiliation was nominal and not taken seriously. As described by Ernst Stuhlinger and Frederick I. Ordway III: \"Throughout his younger years, von Braun did not show signs of religious devotion, or even an interest in things related to the church or to biblical teachings. In fact, he was known to his friends as a 'merry heathen' (\"fröhlicher Heide\").\" Nevertheless, in 1945 he explained his decision to surrender to the Western Allies, rather than Russians, as being influenced by a desire to share rocket technology with people who followed the Bible. In 1946, he attended church in El Paso, Texas, and underwent a religious conversion to evangelical Christianity. In an unnamed religious magazine he stated:\n\nOn the motives behind this conversion, Michael J. Neufeld is of the opinion that he turned to religion \"to pacify his own conscience\", whereas University of Southampton scholar Kendrick Oliver said that von Braun was presumably moved \"by a desire to find a new direction for his life after the moral chaos of his service for the Third Reich\". Having \"concluded one bad bargain with the Devil, perhaps now he felt a need to have God securely at his side\".\n\nLater in life, he joined an Episcopal congregation, and became increasingly religious. He publicly spoke and wrote about the complementarity of science and religion, the afterlife of the soul, and his belief in God. He stated, \"Through science man strives to learn more of the mysteries of creation. Through religion he seeks to know the Creator.\" He was interviewed by the Assemblies of God pastor C. M. Ward, as stating, \"The farther we probe into space, the greater my faith.\" In addition, he met privately with evangelist Billy Graham and with the pacifist leader Martin Luther King Jr..\n\nVon Braun developed and published his space station concept during the very \"coldest\" time of the Cold War, when the U.S. government for which he worked put the containment of the Soviet Union above everything else. The fact that his space station – if armed with missiles that could be easily adapted from those already available at this time – would give the United States space superiority in both orbital and orbit-to-ground warfare did not escape him. In his popular writings, von Braun elaborated on them in several of his books and articles, but he took care to qualify such military applications as \"particularly dreadful\". This much less peaceful aspect of von Braun's \"drive for space\" has been reviewed by Michael J. Neufeld from the Space History Division of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington.\n\nThe U.S. Navy had been tasked with building a rocket to lift satellites into orbit, but the resulting Vanguard rocket launch system was unreliable. In 1957, with the launch of Sputnik 1, a growing belief within the United States existed that it was lagging behind the Soviet Union in the emerging Space Race. American authorities then chose to use von Braun and his German team's experience with missiles to create an orbital launch vehicle. Wernher von Braun had such an idea originally proposed in 1954, but it was denied at the time.\n\nNASA was established by law on July 29, 1958. One day later, the 50th Redstone rocket was successfully launched from Johnston Atoll in the south Pacific as part of Operation Hardtack I. Two years later, NASA opened the Marshall Space Flight Center at Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, and the Army Ballistic Missile Agency (ABMA) development team led by von Braun was transferred to NASA. In a face-to-face meeting with Herb York at the Pentagon, von Braun made it clear he would go to NASA only if development of the Saturn was allowed to continue. Presiding from July 1960 to February 1970, von Braun became the center's first director.\n\nVon Braun's early years at NASA included a failed \"four-inch flight\" during which the first unmanned Mercury-Redstone rocket only rose a few inches before settling back onto the launch pad. The launch failure was later determined to be the result of a \"power plug with one prong shorter than the other because a worker filed it to make it fit\". Because of the difference in the length of one prong, the launch system detected the difference in the power disconnection as a \"cut-off signal to the engine\". The system stopped the launch, and the incident created a \"nadir of morale in Project Mercury\".\n\nAfter the flight of Mercury-Redstone 2 in January 1961 experienced a string of problems, von Braun insisted on one more test before the Redstone could be deemed man-rated. His overly cautious nature brought about clashes with other people involved in the program, who argued that MR-2's technical issues were simple and had been resolved shortly after the flight. He overruled them, so a test mission involving a Redstone on a boilerplate capsule was flown successfully in March. Von Braun's stubbornness was blamed for the inability of the U.S. to launch a manned space mission before the Soviet Union, which ended up putting the first man in space the following month.\nThe Marshall Center's first major program was the development of Saturn rockets to carry heavy payloads into and beyond Earth orbit. From this, the Apollo program for manned Moon flights was developed. Wernher von Braun initially pushed for a flight engineering concept that called for an Earth orbit rendezvous technique (the approach he had argued for building his space station), but in 1962, he converted to the lunar orbit rendezvous concept that was subsequently realized. During Apollo, he worked closely with former Peenemünde teammate, Kurt H. Debus, the first director of the Kennedy Space Center. His dream to help mankind set foot on the Moon became a reality on July 16, 1969, when a Marshall-developed Saturn V rocket launched the crew of Apollo 11 on its historic eight-day mission. Over the course of the program, Saturn V rockets enabled six teams of astronauts to reach the surface of the Moon.\n\nDuring the late 1960s, von Braun was instrumental in the development of the U.S. Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville. The desk from which he guided America's entry in the space race remains on display there. He also was instrumental in the launching of the experimental Applications Technology Satellite. He traveled to India and hoped that the program would be helpful for bringing a massive educational television project to help the poorest people in that country.\n\nDuring the local summer of 1966–67, von Braun participated in a field trip to Antarctica, organized for him and several other members of top NASA management. The goal of the field trip was to determine whether the experience gained by U.S. scientific and technological community during the exploration of Antarctic wastelands would be useful for the manned exploration of space. Von Braun was mainly interested in management of the scientific effort on Antarctic research stations, logistics, habitation, and life support, and in using the barren Antarctic terrain like the glacial dry valleys to test the equipment that one day would be used to look for signs of life on Mars and other worlds.\n\nIn an internal memo dated January 16, 1969, von Braun had confirmed to his staff that he would stay on as a center director at Huntsville to head the Apollo Applications Program. He referred to this time as a moment in his life when he felt the strong need to pray, stating \"I certainly prayed a lot before and during the crucial Apollo flights\". A few months later, on occasion of the first Moon landing, he publicly expressed his optimism that the Saturn V carrier system would continue to be developed, advocating manned missions to Mars in the 1980s.\n\nNonetheless, on March 1, 1970, von Braun and his family relocated to Washington, DC, when he was assigned the post of NASA's Deputy Associate Administrator for Planning at NASA Headquarters. After a series of conflicts associated with the truncation of the Apollo program, and facing severe budget constraints, von Braun retired from NASA on May 26, 1972. Not only had it become evident by this time that NASA and his visions for future U.S. space flight projects were incompatible, but also it was perhaps even more frustrating for him to see popular support for a continued presence of man in space wane dramatically once the goal to reach the Moon had been accomplished.\nVon Braun also developed the idea of a Space Camp that would train children in fields of science and space technologies, as well as help their mental development much the same way sports camps aim at improving physical development.\n\nAfter leaving NASA, von Braun became Vice President for Engineering and Development at the aerospace company Fairchild Industries in Germantown, Maryland, on July 1, 1972.\n\nIn 1973, during a routine physical examination, von Braun was diagnosed with kidney cancer, which could not be controlled with the medical techniques available at the time. Von Braun continued his work to the extent possible, which included accepting invitations to speak at colleges and universities, as he was eager to cultivate interest in human spaceflight and rocketry, particularly his desire to encourage the next generation of aerospace engineers.\n\nVon Braun helped establish and promote the National Space Institute, a precursor of the present-day National Space Society, in 1975, and became its first president and chairman. In 1976, he became scientific consultant to Lutz Kayser, the CEO of OTRAG, and a member of the Daimler-Benz board of directors. However, his deteriorating health forced him to retire from Fairchild on December 31, 1976. When the 1975 National Medal of Science was awarded to him in early 1977, he was hospitalized, and unable to attend the White House ceremony.\n\nVon Braun's insistence on further tests after Mercury-Redstone 2 flew higher than planned has been identified as contributing to the Soviet Union's success in launching the first human in space. The Mercury-Redstone BD flight was successful, but took up the launch slot that could have put Alan Shepard into space three weeks ahead of Yuri Gagarin. His Soviet counterpart Sergei Korolev insisted on two successful flights with dogs before risking Gagarin's life on a manned attempt. The second test flight took place one day after the Mercury-Redstone BD mission.\n\nVon Braun took a very conservative approach to engineering, designing with ample safety factors and redundant structure. This became a point of contention with other engineers, who struggled to keep vehicle weight down so that payload could be maximized. As noted above, his excessive caution likely led to the U.S. losing the race to put a man into space with the Soviets. Krafft Ehricke likened von Braun's approach to building the Brooklyn Bridge. Many at NASA headquarters jokingly referred to Marshall as the \"Chicago Bridge and Iron Works\", but acknowledged that the designs worked. The conservative approach paid off when a fifth engine was added to the Saturn C-4, producing the Saturn V. The C-4 design had a large crossbeam that could easily absorb the thrust of an additional engine.\n\nVon Braun had a charismatic personality and was known as a ladies' man. As a student in Berlin, he would often be seen in the evenings in the company of two girlfriends at once. He later had a succession of affairs within the secretarial and computer pool at Peenemünde.\n\nIn January 1943, von Braun became engaged to Dorothee Brill, a physical education teacher in Berlin, and sought permission from the SS Race and Settlement Office to marry. However, the engagement was broken due to his mother's opposition. Later in 1943, while preparing V-2 launch sites in northeastern France, von Braun had an affair in Paris with a French woman, who was imprisoned for collaboration after the War and became destitute.\n\nDuring his stay at Fort Bliss, von Braun proposed marriage to Maria Luise von Quistorp (born ), his maternal first cousin, in a letter to his father. On March 1, 1947, having received permission to go back to Germany and return with his bride, he married her in a Lutheran church in Landshut, Germany. Shortly after he converted to Evangelical Christianity, his bride and he, as well as his father and mother, returned to New York on March 26, 1947. On December 9, 1948, the von Brauns' first daughter, Iris Careen, was born at Fort Bliss Army Hospital. The von Brauns had two more children, Margrit Cécile in 1952 and Peter Constantine in 1960.\n\nOn April 15, 1955, von Braun became a naturalized citizen of the United States.\n\nOn June 16, 1977, Wernher von Braun died of pancreatic cancer in Alexandria, Virginia, at the age of 65. He was buried at the Ivy Hill Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\nVon Braun's gravestone mentions Psalm 19:1: \"The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.\" (KJV)\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFilm and television\nVon Braun has been featured in a number of movies and television shows or series:\n\nSeveral fictional characters have been modeled on von Braun:\n\nIn print media:\n\nIn literature:\n\nIn theatre:\n\nIn music:\n\n\n\n\n"}
