{"id": "53934642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53934642", "title": "Annales Beneventani", "text": "Annales Beneventani\n\nThe Annales Beneventani (\"Beneventan Annals\"), also called the Breve chronicon monasterii Sanctae Sophiae Beneventi (\"Brief Chronicle of the Monastery of Santa Sofia of Benevento\") or Chronicon Sanctae Sophiae for short, is a series of Latin annals from the monastery of Santa Sofia in Benevento, southern Italy. The annal entries were originally annotations written in the margins of Paschal tables, a practice that probably dates to the foundation of the monastery in the second half of the eighth century. The annotations were gathered together and copied into manuscripts in the early twelfth century. Three such manuscripts exist, each copied at Santa Sofia and each presenting a different redaction of the annals. The \"Annales\" is of interest primarily because its entries are roughly contemporaneous with the events they describe.\n\nVersion A.1 in manuscript Vatican, BAV, vat. lat. 4928, fol. 1–8, copied between 1113 and 1118, covers the years 787–1113. Version A.2 in manuscript Vatican BAV, vat. lat. 4939, fol. 1–15, copied in 1119, has entries added for the years before 787 all the way back to the birth of Jesus; it also has entries for the years down to 1128. It is found in the same manuscript as the monastery's cartulary, a collection of canon law and a list of the Princes of Benevento. Version A.3 in manuscript Naples, BN, VI E 43, fol. 17–18, copied between 1107 and 1118, has entries for the years from 1096 to 1130. It is the only version in which the annals are marginal annotations to a Paschal table, which would have been the form of the original manuscript(s) from which all three surviving redactions are derived. A fourth redaction once accepted as genuine has been identified as an eighteenth-century forgery. Ottorino Bertolini made the first critical edition based on all three texts in 1923.\n\nThe \"Annales\" have a distinctly Beneventan and south Italian perspective. The succession of Byzantine emperors is recorded into the ninth century, while the neither the Carolingian nor the Ottonian emperors are recognised as such, being referred to only as \"kings\". The succession of Princes of Benevento is recorded down to the end the principality around 1050, when the city came under papal rule. Thereafter, the \"Annales\" record the succession of popes. The entries are more detailed from the tenth century onwards, but few are about the monastery itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50237338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50237338", "title": "Apache Fortress", "text": "Apache Fortress\n\nApache Fortress is an open source project of the Apache Software Foundation and a subproject of the Apache Directory. It's a standards-based access management system, written in Java, that provides role-based access control, delegated administration and password policy services with LDAP.\n\nStandards implemented:\nFortress has four separate components:\n\nFortress was first contributed in 2011 to the OpenLDAP Foundation and moved to the Apache Directory project in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2643012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2643012", "title": "Archive site", "text": "Archive site\n\nIn web archiving, an archive site is a website that stores information on webpages from the past for anyone to view.\n\nTwo common techniques for archiving web sites are using a web crawler or soliciting user submissions:\n\n\nOn February 12, 2001, Google acquired the usenet discussion group archives from Deja.com and turned it into their Google Groups service. They allow users to search old discussions with Google's search technology, while still allowing users to post to the mailing lists.\n\nThe Internet Archive is building a compendium of websites and digital media. Starting in 1996, the Archive has been employing a web crawler to build up their database. It is one of the best known archive sites.\n\nNBCUniversal Archives offer access to exclusive content from NBCUniversal and its subsidiaries. Their NBCUniversal Archives website provides easy viewing of past and recent news clips, and it is a prime example of a news archive.\n\nNextpoint offers an automated cloud-based, SaaS for marketing, compliance, and litigation related needs including electronic discovery.\n\nPANDORA (Pandora Archive), founded in 1996 by the National Library of Australia, stands for Preserving and Accessing Networked Documentary Resources of Australia, which encapsulates their mission. They provide a long-term catalog of select online publications and web sites authored by Australians or that are of an Australian topic. They employ their PANDAS (PANDORA Digital Archiving System) when building their catalog.\n\ntextfiles.com is a large library of old text files maintained by Jason Scott Sadofsky. Its mission is to archive the old documents that had floated around the bulletin board systems (BBS) of his youth and to document other people's experiences on the bulletin board systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "42176983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42176983", "title": "Baghdadi Museum", "text": "Baghdadi Museum\n\nThe Baghdadi Museum (Arabic: المتحف البغدادي) is a local history museum located in and about the capital city of Baghdad, Iraq. It was established in 1970. \n\nThe museum is situated near the River Tigris. It features 70 scenes from different periods using lifesize models presenting Baghdad life, especially folk crafts, trades, professions, local customs, and street life. The museum suffered damage due to the American invasion during the Iraq War in 2003 causing suspension of its operation. It officially reopened in August 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2994115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994115", "title": "Barristers in England and Wales", "text": "Barristers in England and Wales\n\nBarristers in England and Wales are one of the two main categories of lawyer in England and Wales, the other being solicitors. Barristers have traditionally had the role of handling cases for representation in court, both defence and prosecution. (The word 'lawyer' is a generic one, referring to a person who practises in law, which could also be deemed to include other legal practitioners such as chartered legal executives.)\n\nThe work of senior legal professionals in England and Wales is divided between solicitors and barristers. Both are trained in law but serve differing functions in the practice of law.\n\nHistorically, the superior courts were based in London, the capital city. To dispense justice throughout the country, a judge and court personnel would periodically travel a regional circuit to deal with cases that had arisen there. From this developed a body of lawyers who were on socially familiar terms with the judges, had training and experience in the superior courts, and had access to a greater corpus of research material and accumulated knowledge on the interpretation and application of the law. Some would go \"on circuit\" with the court to act on behalf of those requiring representation. By contrast, solicitors were essentially local to one place, whether London or a provincial town.\n\nLawyers who practised in the courts in this way came to be called \"barristers\" because they were \"called to the Bar\", the symbolic barrier separating the public—including solicitors and law students—from those admitted to the well of the Court. They became specialists either in appearing in court to represent clients, or in the process of using the courts, which would include giving oral or written advice on the strength of a case and the best way to conduct it. For those who had the means and preference to engage a solicitor, it became useful, then normal and then compulsory, for the solicitor in turn to select and engage a barrister to represent the client before the courts. Likewise, it became either useful or normal (but not compulsory) to engage an appropriate barrister when highly specialist advice was required. Many barristers have largely \"paper practices\" and rarely or (in some cases) never make court appearances.\n\nHistorically, practising at the bar (or in court) was a more socially prestigious profession than working as a solicitor. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the bar was one of the limited number of professions considered suitable for upper class men; politics, the Army and Navy, the established clergy, and the civil and diplomatic services being the others. Many leading eighteenth and nineteenth-century politicians were barristers; few were solicitors. In the 20th century, solicitors closed the gap greatly, especially in terms of earnings, and by the early 21st century the social gap was far less important than formerly.\n\nUntil recently, the most obvious differences between the two professions was that, firstly, only barristers had exclusive and wide rights of audience (that is, a right to plead) in all courts in England and Wales, and secondly, only solicitors could be directly engaged by clients for payment. These differences have been eroded by recent deliberate changes, although in many fields of legal practice, the distinction is largely retained in practice.\n\nBarristers have full rights of audience to appear in all courts, from highest to lowest. Solicitors, on the other hand, have traditionally been able to appear only as advocates in the lower courts (that is, the magistrates' and county courts) and tribunals. The bulk of such work continues to be handled by solicitors. Under section 17 of the Courts and Legal Services Act 1990, solicitors with appropriate advocacy experience are entitled to acquire higher \"rights of audience\", enabling them to appear in the superior courts. Solicitors who attain these rights are known as solicitor-advocates. But, in practice the number of solicitor-advocates exercising their right to do so remains fairly small, and solicitors often continue to engage a barrister to undertake any required advocacy in court. Not only is this division traditional; in higher-value civil or more serious criminal cases, it is often tactically imperative to engage a specialist advocate (because if one side does not the other might).\n\nUntil 2004, barristers were prohibited from seeking or accepting \"instructions\" (that is, being hired) directly by the clients whom they represent. The involvement of a solicitor was compulsory. The rationale was that solicitors could investigate and gather evidence and instructions and filter them – according to the interests of the client – before presenting them to the barrister; in return the barrister, being one step removed from the client, could reach a more objective opinion of the merits of the case, working strictly from the evidence that would be admissible in court. In addition, being less involved in the current affairs of clients, including many matters that might never come to court, barristers had more time for research and for keeping up to date with the law and the decisions (precedent) of the courts.\n\nTheoretically, this prohibition has been removed. In certain areas (but not crime or conveyancing), barristers may now accept instructions from a client directly (\"Direct Access\"). Only a solicitor, however, may undertake any work that requires funds to be held on behalf of a client.\n\nA barrister is in principle required to act for any client offering a proper fee, regardless of the attractions or disadvantages of a case and the personal feelings of the barrister towards the client. This is known as the \"cab-rank rule\", since the same rule applies to licensed taxi-cabs. Modifying conditions include that the barrister is available to take the case and feels competent to handle the work. A barrister who specialises in, for example, crime is not obliged to take on employment law work if he is offered it. He is entitled (and, even, obliged) to reject a case which he feels is too complicated for him to deal with properly.\n\nBarristers work in two main contexts: in self-employed practice (formerly known as \"independent practice\") or in \"employed\" practice (i.e. salaried).\n\nMost barristers are in self-employed practice, but operate within the framework of a set of Chambers. Under a tenancy agreement, they pay a certain amount per month (\"rent\") or a percentage of their incomes, or a mixture of the two, to their chambers, which provides accommodation and clerical support (including the crucial function of booking, and sometimes of finding, work). The Head of Chambers, usually a Queen's Counsel (also referred to as \"QC\" or \"Silk\") or a \"senior junior\", may exercise a powerful influence on the members, and members often offer informal help and guidance to each other. They are not liable for each other's business (as partners are). Members of the same set of chambers may appear on opposite sides in the same case. Each barrister remains an independent practitioner, being solely responsible for the conduct of his own practice and keeping what he earns. He does not receive a salary from anyone. A barrister in independent practice will be instructed by a number of different solicitors (\"professional clients\") to act for various individuals, government departments, agencies or companies (\"lay clients\").\n\nBy contrast, an \"employed\" barrister is a barrister who works as an employee within a larger organisation, either in the public or private sector. For example, employed barristers work within government departments or agencies (such as the Crown Prosecution Service), the legal departments of companies, and in some cases for firms of solicitors. Employed barristers will typically be paid a salary, and in most circumstances may do work only on behalf of their employer, rather than accepting instructions on behalf of third parties (such as their employers' customers). They remain subject to the Bar Council's Code of Professional Conduct, and their advice is entitled to professional privilege against disclosure.\n\nNew entrants to the employed bar must have completed pupillage in the same way as those in independent practice. The Bar Council produces exhaustive guidance regulating the way in which both groups operate, although in 2006 some of the regulatory authority was passed over to the independent Bar Standards Board.\n\nIn 2011 there were around 12,000 barristers in independent practice, of which about ten per cent were QC. A further group (about 3,300) were employed in companies as ‘in-house’ counsel, or by local or national government, or in academic institutions.\n\nThe appearance and form of address of a barrister is bound by a number of conventions.\n\nA barrister's appearance in court depends on whether the hearing is \"robed\" or not. In England and Wales, criminal cases in the Crown Court are almost invariably conducted with the barristers' wearing robes, but there is an increasing tendency in civil cases to dispense with them. The vast majority of County Court hearings are now conducted without robes, although the traditional attire continues to be worn in High Court proceedings.\n\nAt a robed hearing, barristers wear a horsehair wig, an open black gown, dark suit and a shirt, with strips of white cotton called 'bands' or 'tabs' worn over a winged collar, instead of a tie. Female barristers wear either the same shirt, or a special collar which includes the bands and tucks inside a suit jacket. QCs wear slightly different silk gowns over short embroidered black jackets and striped trousers. Solicitors wear a black gown (of a distinct style), wing collar and band and a wig. The question of barristers' and judges' clothing in the civil courts was the subject of review, and there is some pressure to adopt a more \"modern\" style of dress, with European-style gowns worn over lounge suits. Guidance from the Bar Council has resulted in robes being worn for trials and appeals in the County Court more than formerly.\n\nIn court, barristers refer to each other as \"my learned friend\". When referring to an opponent who is a solicitor, the term used is \"my friend\" – irrespective of the relative ages and experiences of the two. \n\nIn an earlier generation, barristers would not shake hands or address each other formally. The rule against shaking hands is no longer generally observed, though the rule regarding formal address is still sometimes observed: at Gray's Inn, when toasting other barristers, a barrister will address another only by surname, without using a prefix such as 'Miss'.\n\nBeginning in January 2006, standards for admission to the bar and disciplinary proceedings are administered by the Bar Standards Board (BSB), a regulatory board of the General Council of the Bar. The BSB is not legally separate from the General Council of the Bar, but is set up so as to be independent of it. Previously, barristers were governed by the General Council of the Bar and the individual Inns of Court. There are four Inns, all situated in the area of London close to the Law Courts in the Strand. Gray's Inn is off High Holborn, Lincoln's Inn off Chancery Lane, the Middle and Inner Temples, situated between Fleet Street and the Embankment.\n\nThe Inns provide a social and professional hub where barristers and jurists can meet. They comprise a grand hall where barristers dine and attend social functions, and include an extensive library. Several rooms are available for conferences, and a place for trainee barristers to engage in advocacy practice. Two of the Inns have chapels, and Middle Temple and Inner Temple share Temple Church. All four Inns are set in well-tended gardens, and are surrounded by chambers often organised in courtyards and squares.\n\nMembers of the public may engage the services of the barrister directly under the Public Access Scheme; a solicitor is not involved at any stage.\n\nBarristers undertaking public access work can provide legal advice and representation in court in all areas of law (see the Public Access Information on the Bar Council website) and are entitled to represent clients in any court or tribunal in England and Wales. Once instructions from a client are accepted, it is the barrister (rather than the solicitor) who advises and guides the client through the relevant legal procedure or litigation.\n\nBefore a barrister can undertake Public Access work, he or she must have completed a special course. At present, about 1 in 20 barristers has so qualified. 'Licensed Access' is a separate scheme available to certain nominated classes of professional client; it is not open to the general public.\n\nIt is an early 21st-century development to enable barristers to accept instructions directly from clients; it results from a change in the rules set down by the General Council of the Bar in July 2004. The Public Access Scheme has been introduced as part of a larger effort to open up the legal system to the public, and to make it easier and cheaper for individuals to obtain access to legal advice. It reduces the distinction between solicitors and barristers. The distinction remains, however, because a solicitor's role has certain aspects which a barrister is not able to undertake.\n\nA prospective barrister must first complete the academic stage of their legal education by obtaining a qualifying law degree. In lieu of a formal law degree, however, the individual may undertake a one-year law conversion course, formerly known as the CPE (Common Professional Examination) or PGDL (Postgraduate Diploma in Law), and now known simply as a GDL (Graduate Diploma in Law), having initially graduated in a subject other than law. The student joins one of the Inns of Court and takes the Bar Professional Training Course (BPTC) at one of the accredited providers.\n\nIt is still mandatory to \"keep terms\" before the student can be called to the bar. The student must participate in 12 qualifying sessions, which may include dining in the Hall of the Inn. It used to be a prerequisite that 24 dinners were eaten before call, but the number has since been reduced to twelve. Dining credits are available for participating in specified training events (e.g., a weekend at Cumberland Lodge organised by one of the Inns credits attendees with three dinners). It is also possible to \"double-dine\" on various special occasions, by which the student is credited with two sessions.\n\nThe origins of this date from the time when both students and practitioners dined together; students learned elements of their education from their fellow diners and from readings given by a senior member of the Inn (Master Reader) after the meal. Generally, in order for the dinner to count towards the 12 required, the student must remain seated until after coffee has been served. Often moots (legal debates arguing for or against a point before a notional appellate court) are held in hall afterwards. At the successful completion of the BPTC (where continuous assessment as well as examinations are now the rule), and completion of the requisite number of dining nights, students are entitled, subject to various formalities, to be \"called to the Bar\" at a ceremony in their Inn. This is conducted by the Masters of the Bench, or Benchers, who are generally senior practising barristers or judges.\n\nOnce called to the bar, the new barrister has a choice whether or not to pursue a career in practice. As there are far more applicants for \"tenancy\" in barristers' \"Chambers\" (see below) than there are places, many barristers are unable to obtain a tenancy and choose to go into commercial or academic work. Those choosing not to practice continue to be recognised as 'barristers', although may not provide legal services under this label, and remain subject to some limited regulation by the Bar Standards Board. \n\nOne who wishes to become a practising barrister must first obtain a \"pupillage\". This is a competitive process which involves some 4,000 students applying for some 300 places each year. The online pupillage application system, Pupillage Portal (formerly known as OLPAS), enables applicants to submit their details to up to 12 barristers' chambers. The Pupillage Portal system is used by most chambers to recruit their pupils; many, however, do not, and such chambers must be contacted directly by applicants. There is no limit to the number of non-OLPAS chambers that an applicant can contact. Such chambers' recruiting deadlines broadly mirror those of the Pupillage Portal sets.\n\nPupillage consists of a period of 12 months, where the pupil studies with and under a practising barrister of at least 5 years' experience. The time is traditionally served in two six-month periods under different pupil-masters (three-month periods are becoming increasingly common), usually in the same chambers. Traditionally, the pupil was paid nothing and could earn no fees until the second six-month period, when he or she was entitled to undertake work independently. All sets are now required to pay their pupils a minimum of £12,000 per year. Some pay considerably more than that, although others have applied for exemption and do not guarantee any income. The Bar is a highly varied profession, both in terms of the specialism (or otherwise) of individual sets of chambers, and in the financial rewards available. For sets doing predominantly publicly funded work, earnings are low for new practitioners. In more specialised areas serving private clients, such as commercial, tax, or chancery work, earnings are far higher, and at least comparable to those of similarly experienced solicitors in big city firms.\n\nAfter pupillage, the new barrister must find a seat or \"tenancy\" in a set of chambers. Chambers are groups of barristers, and tend to comprise between 20 and 60 barristers. The members of a Chambers share the rent and facilities, such as the service of \"clerks\" (who combine some of the functions of agents, administrators and diary managers), secretaries and other support staff. Most chambers operate a system whereby the members contribute to these common expenses by paying a certain percentage of their gross income. However, there is no profit-sharing as in a business partnership. Individual barristers keep the fees they earn, beyond what they have to pay towards professional expenses.\n\nThe Bar remains a highly individualistic profession, and earnings vary widely – from some newly qualified (usually criminal) juniors who are lucky to earn £25,000 per year to the top Queen's Counsel (QCs or 'silks' as they are known, from their silk gowns) making well in excess of £1 million a year (with a handful of tax and commercial QCs reported to earn more than £2 million a year).\n\nAlthough not all barristers practise from the Inns (for reasons such as the limited amount of space available), the majority still practise from chambers. The names placed on boards at the entrances of many of the staircases of the buildings within the Inns are the names of the tenant barristers (and occasionally distinguished members now prominent in judicial or political life) practising from the chambers in those buildings.\n\nSome of the principles and traditions that have given the profession its unique character have been caricatured in John Mortimer's \"Rumpole of the Bailey\" tales and the television episodes based on them. Novelist Caro Fraser also wrote a popular series of books about a fictional series of barrister's chambers called Caper Court.\n\nIn television the bar was popularised by actor John Thaw's portrayal of the title character in \"Kavanagh QC\". Peter Moffat (who created \"Kavanagh QC\") also later created a further television series about barristers called \"Silk\" (in reference to the silk gowns of Queen's Counsel) and \"North Square\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "176920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=176920", "title": "British Museum Reading Room", "text": "British Museum Reading Room\n\nThe British Museum Reading Room, situated in the centre of the Great Court of the British Museum, used to be the main reading room of the British Library. In 1997, this function moved to the new British Library building at St Pancras, London, but the Reading Room remains in its original form at the British Museum.\n\nDesigned by Sydney Smirke and opened in 1857, the Reading Room was in continual use until its temporary closure for renovation in 1997. It was reopened in 2000, and from 2007 to 2014 it was used to stage temporary exhibitions. It has since been closed while its future use remains under discussion.\n\nIn the early 1850s the museum library was in need of a larger reading room and the then-Keeper of Printed Books, Antonio Panizzi, following an earlier competition idea by William Hosking, came up with the thought of a round room in the central courtyard. The building was designed by Sydney Smirke and was constructed between 1854 and 1857. The building used cast iron, concrete, glass and the latest technology in ventilation and heating. The dome, inspired by the Pantheon in Rome, has a diameter of 42.6 metres but is not technically free standing: constructed in segments on cast iron, the ceiling is suspended and made out of papier-mâché. Book stacks built around the reading room were made of iron to take the huge weight and add fire protection. There were forty kilometres of shelving in the stacks prior to the library's relocation to the new site.\n\nThe Reading Room was officially opened on 2 May 1857 with a 'breakfast' (that included champagne and ice cream) laid out on the catalogue desks. A public viewing was held between 8 and 16 May which attracted over 62,000 visitors. Tickets to it included a plan of the library.\n\nRegular users had to apply in writing and be issued a reader's ticket by the Principal Librarian. During the period of the British Library, access was restricted to registered researchers only; however, reader's credentials were generally available to anyone who could show that they were a serious researcher. The Reading Room was used by a large number of famous figures, including notably Sun Yat-sen, Karl Marx, Oscar Wilde, Friedrich Hayek, Bram Stoker, Mahatma Gandhi, Rudyard Kipling, George Orwell, George Bernard Shaw, Mark Twain, Vladimir Lenin (using the name Jacob Richter), Virginia Woolf, Arthur Rimbaud, Mohammad Ali Jinnah, H. G. Wells and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.\n\nIn 1973, the British Library Act 1972 detached the library department from the British Museum, but it continued to host the now separated British Library in the same Reading Room and building as the museum until 1997.\n\nIn 1997 the British Library moved to its own specially constructed building next to St Pancras Station and all the books and shelving were removed. As part of the redevelopment of the Great Court, the Reading Room was fully renovated and restored, including the papier-mâché ceiling which was repaired to its original colour scheme, having previously undergone radical redecorations (the initial design of the roof was considered excessive at the time).\n\nThe Reading Room was reopened in 2000, allowing all visitors, and not just library ticket-holders, to enter it. It held a collection of 25,000 books focusing on the cultures represented in the museum along with an information centre and the Walter and Leonore Annenberg Centre.\n\nIn 2007 the books and facilities installed in 2000 were removed, and the Reading Room was relaunched as a venue for special exhibitions, beginning with one featuring China's Terracotta Army. The general library for visitors (Paul Hamlyn Library) moved to a room accessible through nearby Room 2, but closed permanently on 13 August 2011. This is an earlier library that has also had distinguished users, including Thomas Babington Macaulay, William Makepeace Thackeray, Robert Browning, Giuseppe Mazzini, Charles Darwin and Charles Dickens.\n\nA selection of past exhibitions:\n\nThe British Museum Reading Room has become iconic. It is the subject of an eponymous poem, \"The British Museum Reading Room\", by Louis MacNeice. Much of the action of David Lodge's 1965 novel \"The British Museum Is Falling Down\" takes place in the old Reading Room. The 'Glass Ceiling' of Anabel Donald's 1994 novel is the ceiling of the Reading Room, where the denouement is set.\n\nAlfred Hitchcock used the Reading Room and the dome of the British Museum as a location for the climax of his first sound film \"Blackmail\" (1929). Other movies with key scenes in the Reading Room include \"Night of the Demon\" (1957) and in the 2001 Japanese anime OVA \"Read or Die\", the Reading Room is used as the secret entrance to the British Library's fictional \"Special Operations Division\".\n\nProbably the first work of fiction in which the British Museum Reading Room plays an important part as a setting is \"New Grub Street\" by George Gissing, published in 1891.\n\nIn Max Beerbohm's short story \"Enoch Soames\", first published in May 1916, an obscure writer makes a deal with the Devil to visit the Reading Room one hundred years in the future, in order to know what posterity thinks about him and his work.\n\nThe British Museum and the Reading Room serve as the settings for \"An Encounter at the Museum\", an anthology of romance novellas by Claudia Dain, Michelle Marcos, Deb Marlowe, and Ava Stone.\n\nVirginia Woolf made reference to the British Museum Reading Room in a passage from her 1929 essay, \"A Room of One's Own\". She wrote, \"The swing doors swung open, and there one stood under the vast dome, as if one were a thought in the huge bald forehead which is so splendidly encircled by a band of famous names.\" \n\nRichard Henry Dana, Jr. visited the Reading Room on 10 September 1860 with his London friend Henry T. Parker, and reported that \"Parker calls & takes me to the British Museum, to see the Reading Room, wh. has been built since 1856 [Dana's prior visit]. It is the room where students & readers have their desks, & consult the text books, cyclopedias, catalogues &c., & from wh. they send orders for books to the Library – the Library not being visited, at all, for study. There is no such room as this in Europe. It is a circle, with dome, lighted from above, & its diameter is 4 feet greater than that of the dome of St. Paul's. The autographs are now open to view of all, spread out in glass cases, – as well as many other lit. curiosities. This is the grandest Literary & Scientific institution (not for instruction) in the world. The Reading Room, I told Parker, was a temple to the deification of Bibliology.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52119222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52119222", "title": "CD-ROM encyclopedia", "text": "CD-ROM encyclopedia\n\nA CD-ROM encyclopedia is an encyclopedia delivered as reference software on a CD-ROM disc for use on a personal computer. This was the usual way computer users accessed encyclopedic knowledge from early 1990s until the late 1990s. Later DVD discs replaced CD-ROMs and from mid-2000s internet encyclopedias became dominant and replaced disc-based software encyclopedias. Some examples of CD-ROM encyclopedia are Encarta, Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia, and Britannica.\n\nCD-ROM encyclopedias were usually a MacOS or Microsoft Windows (3.0, 3.1 or 95/98) application on a CD-ROM disc. The user would execute the encyclopedia's software program to see a menu that allowed him to start browsing the encyclopedia's articles, and most encyclopedias also supported a way to search the contents of the encyclopedia. The article text was usually hyperlinked and also included photographs, audio clips (for example in articles about historical speeches or musical instruments), and videoclips. In the CD-ROM age the videoclips had usually a low resolution, often 160x120 or 320x240 pixels. Such encyclopedias which made use of photos, audio and video were also called multimedia encyclopedias.\n"}
{"id": "25817299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817299", "title": "Cuisines of the Axis of Evil and Other Irritating States", "text": "Cuisines of the Axis of Evil and Other Irritating States\n\nCuisines of the Axis of Evil and Other Irritating States: A Dinner Party Approach to International Relations is a political satire-based cook book written with a left-leaning point of view authored by C. Christine Fair. Inspired by George W. Bush's 2002 State of the Union address, the book utilizes recipes for dishes from the so-called Axis of Evil countries such as Iran, Iraq and North Korea as well as other nations such as Cuba, Israel and the United States mixed with political humor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "553266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553266", "title": "Danube–Black Sea Canal", "text": "Danube–Black Sea Canal\n\nThe Danube–Black Sea Canal () is a navigable canal in Romania, which runs from Cernavodă, on the Danube river, to Constanța (southern arm, the main branch), and to Năvodari (northern arm), on the Black Sea. Administrated from Agigea, it is an important part of the European canal system that links the North Sea (through the Rhine–Main–Danube Canal) to the Black Sea. The main branch of the canal, with a length of , which connects the Port of Cernavodă with the Port of Constanța, was built between 1976–1984, while the north branch, known as the Poarta Albă – Midia Năvodari Canal, with a length of , connecting Poarta Albă and Port of Midia, was built between 1983–1987.\n\nThe Canal was notorious as the site of labor camps in early 1950s Communist Romania, when at any given time, up to 20,000 political prisoners worked on its excavation. The total number of people used as a workforce for the entire period is unknown, with the total number of deaths estimated at several thousand. These works were later used in the Carasu irrigation system.\n\nThe course of the canal follows mostly the course of the former Carasu River, originally a tributary of the Danube. Therefore, hydrographically it also has the function of conveying the runoff from a drainage basin to the Black Sea.\n\nThe main branch extends from Cernavodă on the Danube to Poarta Albă. On this reach it goes near or through the settlements of Cernavodă, Saligny, Mircea Vodă, Medgidia, Castelu, and Poarta Albă. On this reach the canal is joined on the left bank by tributaries: Valea Plantației, Valea Cișmelei, Agi Cabul, Castelu and Nisipari. On the left side it is joined by tributaries: Popa Nica, Medgidia, Siminoc and Șerplea\n\nAt Poarta Albă the canal bifurcates into two branches. The main canal goes to the South, towards the Port of Constanța Sud – Agigea. It passes near the settlements of Murfatlar, Cumpăna and Agigea. On its reach it is joined on the left bank by tributaries Cocoș, Valea Seacă, Potârnichea, Lazu and on the right bank by the Agigea\n\nThe north branch (Poarta Albă – Midia Năvodari Canal), goes towards the Port of Midia. It passes near Nazarcea, Lumina, Ovidiu and Năvodari. On its reach it is joined by tributaries Nazarcea and Valea Adâncă, both from the left bank.\n\nThe main reasons for the building of the canal were to circumvent the Danube Delta, which is difficult to navigate, to shorten the distance to the Black Sea, and several issues related to the loading and unloading of ships.\n\nIn its delta, the Danube is divided into three main branches, none of which is suited to optimal navigation: Chilia branch is the deepest, but its mouths were not stable, which made navigation dangerous; Sulina branch is not deep enough for maritime ships to navigate on it and it also used to be isolated from the railroad system; Sfântu Gheorghe branch is shallow and sinuous.\n\nAt the time when the decision to build the canal was taken, it was officially announced that these works would also serve a secondary purpose, that of land reclamation – with the drainage of marshes in the area. Also during the construction period, the Danube – Black Sea Canal was advertised as a fast and direct connection between the Soviet Volga-Don Canal and Central Europe.\n\nThe main branch reduces the distance by boat from Constanța to Cernavodă by ca. . It has a width of and a depth of ; the northern arm has a length of , width of and a depth of . The radius of its sharpest bends is for the main branch, and , for the northern branch.\n\nThe waterway passes through the towns of Medgidia and Murfatlar, both of which have been turned into inland ports. It was designed to facilitate the transit of convoys comprising as much as six towed barges, up to 3,000 in tonnage each, in length and wide (ships of up to 5,000 in tonnage, as long as and with as much as in beam and in draft can also pass through the canal). The structure is bound by four locks (in Cernavodă and Agigea, and in Ovidiu and Midia, respectively).\n\nIn its final phase, the canal took over nine years to construct; of soil were excavated (greater than the amount involved in building the Panama and Suez canals), and of concrete were used for the locks and support walls.\n\nThe earliest plans for building this canal were in late 1830s. The Treaty of Adrianopol (September 14, 1829) canceled the trade monopoly of the Ottoman Empire in the Danubian Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, allowing these countries to build their own fleets by 1834. Both Romanian and non-Romanian ships used mostly the Danube port cities of Brăila and Galați, which saw an economic boom. But there were a number of barriers to this trade: the Ottomans controlled the navigation regime on the Danube, while the Russian Empire – the access to the Black Sea in the Danube Delta, and there was little the Danubian Principalities could do to rectify this situation. Both countries welcomed the Austrian Empire's 1834 decision, endorsed by Count István Széchenyi, to extend the route of the first pyroscaphe navigation company to the maritime Danube. The Austrian initiative was received unpleasantly by the Russians, who considered their trade through Odessa and ports in the Crimea threatened by the development of Brăila and Galați. Without resolving to direct measures, Russians, who controlled the Sulina branch, started to show rigidity, instituting on February 7, 1836 a compulsory quarantine on the island of Letea, collecting taxes to cover Russian financial deficit, and by not performing maintenance for the navigation on the Sulina branch to remove the continuous deposits of sand.\n\nThis gave Austrians the idea to dig a canal to connect the Danube with the Black Sea at the shortest point before the Delta, between Rasova or Cernavodă (\"Bogaz Köi\") and Constanța (\"Küstendjie\"), and a parallel railway. The Austrian project, however, was rejected by the Ottoman Porte. Western diplomats and newspapers accused the Russian government that through bribing and intimidation, it determined the Ottoman officials to reject the proposal of Szechenyi's company. In 1839, Széchenyi got the approval of his and Ottoman governments to ensure the transport of goods and people without getting to Sulina by a transshipment on dry land. Carts and coaches made a 7–8 hour trip from Cernavodă to Constanța, where people and goods were boarding other ships for Istanbul. The enterprise was scrapped after 4 years due to non-profitability because of a low number of passengers, high cost of transport, and poor conditions of accosting in the unfit roadstead of the port of Constanța.\n\nIn its place, a new Brăila-Istanbul route was established. However, by 1844, the depth of the Sulina branch has decreased to 7–9 feet from 13–14 feet in 1836, due to lack of dredging by the Russian authorities which controlled the passage. The Austrian government made a new attempt to cut a canal, sending the military engineer Colonel Baron Karl von Bigaro to prospect the land. But the idea had to be abandoned again due to technical problem, first of all due to the unfitness of the port of Constanța for large international trade.\n\nIn 1850, the Moldavian scholar Ion Ionescu de la Brad proposed yet another project, supported by Ion Ghica and by the Scottish diplomat David Urquhart, the secretary of the United Kingdom's Embassy in the Ottoman Empire. Ghica lobbied Brad's project to Ahmed Vefik, who gave a negative response for fear of provoking Russia.\n\nThe Crimean War of 1854–1856, added a military and strategical dimension for this plan. The British-French Allies landed at Varna in the summer of 1854, followed by the withdrawal of Russian troops from Wallachia and Moldavia and the advancement of Ottoman and Austrian ones. In 1855, the French government put forward an initiative, and the Ottomans approved it, for the cheapest solution: build a strategic road between Cernavodă and Constanța. Engineer Charles Lalanne was put in charge of these works, that started in the summer of 1855 and were finished by the year's end. According to the newspaper \"Zimbrul\" of Iași, the work was performed by 300 physically strong men of moderate character selected in Moldavia and Wallachia.\n\nThe building of the road did not eliminate, however, the need for a canal, and the Austrian government renewed its persuading efforts. According to \"Gazeta de Transilvania\" in July 1855, Baron Karl Ludwig von Bruck, the Austrian Finance Minister, founded a stock company to build the desired canal. According to an article in \"Zimbrul\" on July 23, 1855, the project was of interest to Britain, the French Empire and the Austrian Empire, who were asking the Ottoman government to allot the concession of the canal and the fitting of the port of Constanța to a consortium under the direction of the three countries. The Ottomans were to lease a league of land on each side of the canal for 99 years, where colonist could be settled. Goods were to travel freely, with ships having to pay only a \"per tone\" tax, significantly lower than the one on the Sulina branch. According to the newspaper \"Steaua Dunării\" from January 24, 1856, the Sultan issued a \"firman\" to the Anglo-French-Austrian consortium Wilson-Morny-Breda, represented by Forbes Campbell, authorizing it to build the canal which was to be called Abdul Medjid. The 12 articles of the Concession Act were published in \"Bukurester Deutsche Zeitung\".\n\nThe construction plans for the canal took a different turn with the signing of the Treaty of Paris on March 30, 1856, ending the war. Russia ceded the Danube mouths to the Ottomans and southern Bessarabia (lately organised as the Cahul, Bolgrad and Ismail counties) to their vassal, Moldavia. The freedom of international navigation on the Danube was restored; passage taxes were canceled, police and quarantine rules were simplified; and the European Commission of the Danube was established, with representatives of 7 powers: Britain, France, Austria, Russia, the Ottoman Empire, the Kingdom of Prussia, and the Kingdom of Sardinia. The Commission was responsible for the clearing of the Danube mouths from deposits of the river, and when necessary with clearing natural barriers, with the goal of ensuring of good conditions for navigation. The effect was that Austria, Britain, and France changed their attitude to the project for a Danube-Black Sea canal. The newspaper \"Zimbrul\" announced on May 25, 1856 that the plan for building the canal was abandoned; instead a railroad line Cernavodă – Constanța was to be built. After two and a half years of construction, the latter was inaugurated on October 4, 1860. Following the building of a railway connection in 1860, goods were easily and inexpensively transported from Constanța by rail, so plans for a canal were again abandoned.\n\nAs the United Principalities of Moldavia and Wallachia (1859) remained formally Ottoman vassals, and moreover Dobruja was directly administered by the Ottomans, the idea to build the canal was not of interest to Romanians then. But following the Russo-Turkish War (1877–1878), Romania acquired formal independence, lost again southern Bessarabia to Russia, but gained Dobruja. The idea to build a canal became a national issue, which could promote Romania's international trade. However, in the following years the development of trade was concentrated mainly on the Sulina Canal. Another project was consequently rejected by King Carol I after consultations with Grigore Antipa. During World War I, Austro-Hungarian authorities taking part in the occupation of southern Romania proposed a canal from Cernavodă to Constanța, passing through Murfatlar, of which 10 miles would be in a tunnel (Cernavodă-Murfatlar) and the rest of 27 miles would be in the open.\n\nIn 1927, the Romanian engineer Jean Stoenescu-Dunăre drafted a new set of plans. Afterwards, because of the Great Depression, World War II, and political turmoil in Romania (\"see Romania during World War II\"), construction did not start until 1949, after the establishment of the Romanian Communist regime.\n\nThe idea of starting the construction of the Danube–Black Sea Canal seems to have been suggested to Romanian leader Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej by Soviet leader Joseph Stalin during a visit to the Moscow Kremlin in 1948. Gheorghiu-Dej's chief of staff stated that Stalin indicated the canal as a means of getting rid of the rich peasants and of the enemies of the people and promised support to the authorities in identifying the people hostile to the regime and by providing construction equipment for the canal. He also stated that Gheorghiu-Dej was not convinced by Stalin's recommendations, suspecting that the canal was actually part of the Soviet Union's expansion strategy. It has since been found out, that Stalin's initiative was based on a secret study, commissioned in 1947-1948, which recommended building a soviet submarine base at the Port of Midia, which was suitable because of its proximity to the Bosphorus and because of the rocky foundation.\n\nOn May 25, 1949, the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Romanian Workers' Party was presented a report of comrade Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej on the projected construction of a canal linking the Danube and the Black Sea and on the economic and cultural development of the neighboring area. Estimating that this important construction was an important component of the construction of socialism in Romania, the Politbiro recommended that the project be submitted to the Council of Ministers for the approval of the immediate start of the preparatory work for the construction of the canal. The same day, Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, at that time first vice-president of the Council of Ministers, presented his proposal to the council, presided by Petru Groza, which approved it immediately. In a speech held on 22 Aug 1949 Anna Pauker hailed the construction of the canal claiming \"we are building the canal without the bourgeoisie and against the bourgeoisie\". Banners with this slogan were set up in all construction sites of the canal.\n\nIn October 1949, the authorities established a General Directorate to oversee both the works and the penal facilities, answering directly to the national leadership. Its first head was Gheorghe Hossu a former mechanic and tractor-driver who had been promoted first-secretary of the Romanian Worker's party in Tulcea County and administrator of the State Fisheries. He was replaced in 1951 by Meyer Grünberg, in turn replaced by Mihail Povstanschi under the name of (Vasile Posteucă) (who held the position in 1952–1953). According to historian Adrian Cioroianu, all three were insufficiently trained for the task they were required to accomplish. By 1952, the Directorate came under the direct supervision of the Internal Affairs Ministry, and the Securitate was allowed direct intervention on the construction site.\n\nPrison camps sprang up all along the projected canal route in the summer of 1949 and were quickly filled with political prisoners brought from jails from throughout the country. These first arrivals were soon joined by newly arrested people who were sent to the canal in ever increasing numbers. By 1950 the forced labor camps set up along the length of the planned canal were filled to capacity; that year alone, up to 15,000 prisoners were held in those camps. By 1953, the number of prisoners had swelled to 20,193, though older estimates claimed figures as high as 60,000 (other estimates asserted 100,000 or 40,000 for the entire period). British historian and New York University professor Tony Judt claimed in his book, \"Postwar: A History of Europe Since 1945\", that, overall, one million Romanians had been imprisoned in various prisons and labor camps, including the Danube-Black Sea Canal.\n\nThe construction effort surpassed the resources available to the Romanian economy in the 1950s. The canal was assigned inferior machinery, part of which had already been used on the Soviet Volga-Don Canal, and building had to rely on primitive techniques (most work appears to have been carried out using shovels and pickaxes, which was especially hard in the rocky terrain of Northern Dobruja). Detainees were allocated to brigades, usually run by common criminals – encouraged to use violence against their subordinates. In parallel, the region's industrialization, destined to assist in the building effort, was never accomplished.\n\nSums allocated for prisoner health, hygiene and nutrition declined dramatically over the years. Food rations were kept to a minimum, and prisoners would often resort to hunting mice and other small animals, or even consuming grass in an attempt to supplement their diet.\n\nThe prisoners comprised dispossessed farmers who had attempted to resist collectivization, former activists of the National Peasants' Party, the National Liberal Party, the Romanian Social Democratic Party, and the fascist Iron Guard, Zionist Jews, as well as Orthodox and Catholic priests. The canal was referred to as the \"graveyard of the Romanian bourgeoisie\" by the Communist authorities, and the physical elimination of undesirable social classes was one of its most significant goals.\n\nThe Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania presented an estimate of several thousand deaths among the political prisoners used in the project, significantly higher than 656 officially recorded by an official report from 1968. Journalist Anne Applebaum had previously claimed that over 200,000 had died in its construction, as a result of exposure, unsafe equipment, malnutrition, accidents, tuberculosis and other diseases, over-work, etc., while political analyst Vladimir Socor had estimated the number of deaths to be \"considerably in excess of 10,000\". As such, the project became known as \"The Death Canal\" (\"Canalul Morții\"). It has also been called \"a cloaca of immense human suffering and mortality\".\n\nIn parallel, authorities left aside sectors of employment for skilled workers – kept in strict isolation from all others, they were attracted to the site with exceptional salaries (over 5,000 lei per month), as well as for young people drafted in the Romanian Army and whose files indicated \"unhealthy origins\" (a middle-class family background). Their numbers fluctuated greatly (regular employees went from 13,200 in 1950 to 15,000 in 1951, to as little as 7,000 in early 1952, and again to 12,500 later in that year). At the same time, facilities meant to accommodate the projected influx of labor (including homes available on credit) were never actually completed. This was overlooked by the propaganda machine, which instead furnished Stakhanovite stories, according to which work quotas were surpassed by as much as 170%. Authorities also made the claim that the construction site was offering training to previously unskilled workers (as many as 10,000 in one official communiqué).\n\nOn July 18, 1953, the project came to a discreet halt, all work being suspended for another 23 years (according to some sources, the closure had been ordered by Stalin himself, as early as 1952). The canal camps remained in existence for another year, and their prisoners progressively relocated, to similar conditions at other work sites in Northern Dobruja. Penal facilities on the canal site were shut down in mid-1954.\n\nBlame for the debilitating and unsuccessful works was eventually placed on a group of alleged conspirators, who were indicted in a show trial (late 1952) – they faced various trumped-up charges (espionage, fraud, sabotage). The inquiry was orchestrated by Iosif Chișinevschi.\n\nThree people were executed (the engine driver Nichita Dumitrescu, and the engineers Aurel Rozei-Rozenberg and Nicolae Vasilescu-Colorado); others were imprisoned for various terms. Defendants in a second group, around the engineer Gheorghe Crăciun, were sentenced to various harsh penalties (including three life imprisonments). Torture was applied by a Securitate squad led by Alexandru Nicolschi, as a means to obtain forced confessions.\n\nIn June 1973, the project, with a complete new design, was restarted by Nicolae Ceaușescu, who had previously ordered the rehabilitation of people sentenced in the 1952 trial, and who aimed to withdraw the Lower Danube from Soviet control (which had been consecrated by the 1948 Danube Conference). In official propaganda, where the 1950s precedent was no longer mentioned, the canal was referred to as the \"Blue Highway\" (\"Magistrala Albastră\"). New and large machinery, produced inside Romania, was introduced to the site. The southern arm was completed in May 1984, with the northern arm being inaugurated in October 1987.\n\nThe cost of building the canal is estimated to be around 2 billion dollars, and was supposed to be recovered in 50 years. However, as of 2005, it has a yearly income of only a little over 3 million euros.\n\nFor much of the 1950s, the Danube – Black Sea Canal was celebrated in agitprop literature (notably, in Geo Bogza's 1950 reportage \"Începutul epopeii\", \"The Beginning of the Epic\", and in Petru Dumitriu's \"Drum fără pulbere\", \"Dustless Road\"), music (Leon Klepper's symphonic poem \"Dunărea se varsă în mare\", \"The Danube Flows to the Sea\"), and film (Ion Bostan's 1951 \"Canalul Dunăre-Marea Neagră, o construcție a păcii\" – \"The Danube – Black Sea Canal, a Construction of Peace\"). During the 1980s, the song \"Magistrala Albastră\" (The blue freeway), performed by Dan Spătaru and Mirabela Dauer and using the Canal as its setting, was frequently broadcast in official and semi-official contexts.\n\nDuring the period of liberalization preceding the \"July Theses\", literature was allowed to make several references to the Canal's penitentiary history. Examples include Marin Preda's \"Cel mai iubit dintre pământeni\" and, most likely, Eugen Barbu's \"Principele\" (by means of an allegory, set during the 18th century Phanariote rules). In 1973–1974, Ion Cârja, a former prisoner, wrote a book titled \"Canalul morții\", \"The death canal\", detailing his sufferings during incarceration; it was first published in Romania in 1993, after the Revolution of 1989. In György Dragomán's 2005 novel, \"The White King\", set in 1980s Romania, the main protagonist 11-year-old boy's father is deported to a labor camp to work on the Danube-Black Sea Canal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "190044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190044", "title": "E-card", "text": "E-card\n\nAn E-card is similar to a postcard or greeting card, with the primary difference being that it is created using digital media instead of paper or other traditional materials. E-cards are made available by publishers usually on various Internet sites, where they can be sent to a recipient, usually via e-mail. It is also considered more environmentally friendly compared to traditional paper cards. E-card businesses are considered environmentally friendly because their carbon footprint is generally much lower compared to paper card companies because paper is not used in the end product.\n\nE-cards are digital \"content\", which makes them much more versatile than traditional greeting cards. For example, unlike traditional greetings, E-cards can be easily sent to many people at once or extensively personalized by the sender. Conceivably they could be saved to any computer or electronic device or even viewed on a television set, and digital video E-cards have begun emerging.\n\nTypically an E-card sender chooses from an on-line catalog of E-cards made available on a publisher's web site. After selecting a card, the sender can personalize it to various degrees by adding a message, photo, or video. Finally the sender specifies the recipient's e-mail address and the web site delivers an e-mail message to the recipient on behalf of the sender.\n\nSome E-cards are intended to be printed out rather than sent via e-mail; to most people, however, these are not considered E-cards, but are simply home-made greeting cards. The advantage to this over a traditional greeting sometimes can be cost savings, or sometimes simply the ability to \"create\" something for the recipient rather than choosing a fully completed paper card.\n\nSince its conception in 1994 by Judith Donath, the technology behind the E-Card has changed significantly. One technical aspect that has remained mostly constant is the delivery mechanism: the e-mail received by the recipient contains not the E-card itself, but an individually coded link back to the publisher's web site that displays the sender's card.\n\nLike their paper counterparts, \"postcards\" use visual art (static or animated images or video) and provide a space for a personal note to be added. These were the first type of E-card in use. Like their paper counterparts, cyber \"greeting cards\" provide a greeting along with the visual art. Variations range from E-cards with fixed greetings like a paper card to selectable greetings (from drop-down lists or other selection options) to changeable suggested greetings.\n\nThis type of E-card is based on two-dimensional vector animation controlled with a scripting language. The format is proprietary to Adobe; however, widespread usage of Adobe's software allows this type of card to be easily viewed on most of today's computers. The recipient sees an animated short usually 15–30 seconds in duration. The animation often appears to have a cartoon style due to the nature of the content, though some Flash creations can be quite sophisticated and realistic. A sound track which may contain speech or music usually accompanies the animation.\n\nFlash animated greeting cards can include interactivity, for example, asking the viewer to choose a picture to animate; however, most Flash E-cards are designed to convey the sentiment of the sender through simple observation.\n\nFlash animated cards are offered today by almost all major E-card publishers and are consequently the most common format used.\n\n\"Video E-cards\" use a combination of personalized text and video to convey the message to the recipient. A number of such services exist such as Rattlebox where the user selects and customizes text on a prerecorded video, and DVCards.com where a user with a web camera actually records their own video to send.\n\n6\nWith the advance in mobile technologies, Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) which is basically picture SMS, became more and more popular. E-cards can now be sent to mobile devices and phones. Mobile E-cards or 'MCards' as they are more commonly known are then offered by different mobile content providers and carriers. Similar to E-cards, MCards can contain multiple pictures, music and text messages. Also MCards are considered the cards sent via one or another mobile application.\n\nOne of the first companies that created MCards is a Dutch Company called Mgreetings (established in 2003). MCards can be sent from a PC in a similar way as sending E-cards. Users can go to a website online, select a card enter the recipient's mobile number, and that card will be sent to the recipient's mobile phone as an MMS.\n\nThe web-based card creation has been evolving becoming more creative. The user can create greeting cards online choosing backgrounds, drag and drop images, animations, smilies and write text that look like handwriting. The E-card may contain videos and music as well.\n\nFlash 10 technology now enables sites to develop bespoke applications which can upload photos, manipulating them and cut out the head from it. The user can then embed it onto an animation so as to achieve a much higher level of personalization.\n\nSome E-cards include interactive games. The games usually contain animation and music much like other animated E-cards and have the same functionality allowing the sender to add a personal message.\n\nThe greeting card metaphor was employed early in the life of the World Wide Web. The first postcard site, \"The Electric Postcard\" was created in late 1994 by Judith Donath at the MIT Media Lab. It started slowly: 10-20 cards a day were sent in the first weeks, 1000-2000 a day over the first summer, and then it gained momentum rapidly. During the 1995-96 Christmas season, there were days when over 19,000 cards were sent; by late spring of 1996 over 1.7 million cards had been sent in total. The source code for this service was made publicly available, with the stipulation that users share improvements with each other. \"The Electric Postcard\" won numerous awards, including a 1995 GNN Best of the Net award.\n\nMIT’s postcards and remained the dominant and the only documented E-card service until the late fall of 1995. In Nov 1995, Awesome Cyber Cards and also then known as marlo.com (located at marlo.com until Oct 2010, now moved), began developing the Internet greeting card, a digital Internet card including a fixed or suggested greeting as well as an image.\n\nWhen the Internet Archive began capturing Web sites across the Internet in the fall of 1996, it created a reservoir of information about E-card development by preserving Internet history from that time and from earlier time-marked Internet pages captured at that time. The Awesome Cards web pages, captured on Nov 10,1996 and available at the Wayback Machine demonstrate its development of the cyber greeting card through the year 1996 as one drills down through its card collections. Specifically, the holiday collections from earlier that same year give a virtual time-stamp. of greeting card development, starting with Valentines with fixed or semi-fixed greetings in February 1996 and progressing through greeting cards with changeable suggested greetings by the Thanksgiving collection.\n\nBy mid-1996, a number of sites had developed E-cards. By mid October 1996, directly emailable greeting cards and postcards (\"Email Express\") were developed and introduced by Awesome Cards, based on new capabilities introduced in the Netscape 3.0 browser. This is the first time the E-card itself could be emailed directly by the card sender to the recipient rather than having an announcement sent with a link to the card's location at the E-card site.\n\nBetween Sep 1996 and Thanksgiving 1997, a paper greeting card company named Blue Mountain developed E-cards on its web site. Blue Mountain grew quickly by allowing visitors to create greetings for others to use. Blue Mountain further expanded when Microsoft promoted its service on its free Hotmail service. This affiliation ceased and Blue Mountain sued Microsoft in Nov 1998 for putting email card announcements from it and other E-card companies in the junk folder of its Hotmail users.\n\nBy 1999, major capital was starting to flow into the Internet, beginning the dotcom boom. Of the E-card sites, Blue Mountain Arts was noteworthy in this period for its sale in October 1999 to Excite@Home for $780M (which represent a price of $71 per unique monthly user). The transaction has been referenced by CNN and Business 2.0 as evidence of the Dot-com bubble. On September 13, 2001, three weeks before filing for bankruptcy on October 1, 2001, Excite@Home sold BlueMountain.com to American Greetings for $35M, or $3.23 per unique monthly user. The web site BlueMountain.com remains a large web site, primarily focused on E-cards. In June 2008, JustAnotherDotCom.com purchased the free E-card site Greeting-cards.com and added it to their own greeting card site, which made them one of the largest E-card sites in the world.\n\nSeveral non-profit organizations offer free E-cards as a way of having a supporter introduce the organization to another individual. In 2006, SOS Children's Villages - USA began offering free E-cards for many occasions such as birthdays, thank yous, and Mother's Day.\n\nAccording to data provided by Google, searches for e-cards have declined to less than 1% of their past levels, with interest declining since record-keeping began in 2004.\n\nSending an E-card to a given recipient invariably involves giving that recipient's email address to the E-card service – a third party. As with other third-party email services (such as mailing-list companies), the operator has the chance to misuse this address. One example of misuse is if the E-card service sends advertisements to the recipient's address. Under anti-spam rules used by major ISPs, such advertisements would be spam, since the recipient never asked (\"opted in\") to receive them.\n\nData privacy laws may prohibit a business from disclosing names, email addresses, or other personal information about customers to a third party.\n\nIn late June 2007 a spate of emails with the subject line \"You've received a postcard from a family member!\" and other similar subjects, was seen making their way across the internet. Unfortunately most of these emails contained links to malicious web sites where JavaScript was used to exploit the browser in order to compromise a system, or contained a link to a malware file masquerading as an E-card.\n\n"}
{"id": "56719406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56719406", "title": "Express Entry", "text": "Express Entry\n\nExpress Entry is a system used by the Canadian government to manage applications for Canadian permanent residence through certain economic immigration programs. The Express Entry system is used to manage applications for skilled and qualified workers. Express Entry is designed to facilitate the immigration of skilled workers to Canada \"who are most likely to succeed economically.\" The system boasts efficient processing times, with 80% of applications processed in 6 months or less.\n\nThose who are eligible for one of the programs managed by Express Entry submit an entry and the Canadian government issues and successful candidates can submit an application for permanent residence. A positive result on this application will grant the applicant, and their accompanying family members, Canadian permanent resident status.\n\nExpress Entry replaced the original \"first-come first-served\" immigration selection system. Express Entry was expected to be more responsive to regional labour shortages. It systemically favours qualified immigrants by prioritising such individuals and avoids the arbitrary selections of the previous system which, in some cases, were based on a first come basis. According to Colin Singer, an immigration lawyer, the ideal candidate for Express Entry is \"someone in their 20s that's very proficient in one of Canada's official languages [English and French], and is highly educated, likely at a master's [degree] level.\"\n\nConcerns have also been expressed about the Express Entry system. Morton Beiser and Harald Bauder (2014) of Ryerson University wrote \"Canada’s once pathbreaking immigration policies are being transformed into a system that mainly serves employers, treating immigrants not as future citizens or members of Canadian communities and families but merely as convenient or cheap labour.\" Others fear that Express Entry gives too much power to politicians and bureaucrats. Advocates of Express Entry claim that Express Entry can reduce the number of migrants who fail to get work by better fitting immigrants to existing jobs vacancies.\n\nThe total amount of immigrants invited depends on the quota the Canadian government has set for itself. For 2018 the quota set is 310,000 immigrants. This quota is then reached by skimming from the top of the express entry pool and inviting the highest ranking candidates. For example, on February 7, 2018, the quota was 3,000 immigrants. Thus the top-ranked 3,000 individuals were invited. In the past the government has repeated this draw multiple times per year.\n"}
{"id": "11408998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11408998", "title": "Fates", "text": "Fates\n\nThe Fates were a common motif in European polytheism, most frequently represented as a group of three mythological goddesses (although their number differed in certain eras and cultures). They were often depicted as weavers of a tapestry on a loom, with the tapestry dictating the destinies of men. The primary instances include:\n\n\nThis motif has been replicated in fictional accounts, such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7749021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7749021", "title": "Functional Requirements for Authority Data", "text": "Functional Requirements for Authority Data\n\nFunctional Requirements for Authority Data (FRAD), formerly known as Functional Requirements for Authority Records (FRAR) is a conceptual entity-relationship model developed by the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) for relating the data that are recorded in library authority records to the needs of the users of those records and facilitate and sharing of that data.\n\nThe draft was presented in 2004 at the 70th IFLA General Conference and Council in Buenos Aires by Glenn Patton. It is an extension and expansion to the FRBR model, adding numerous entities and attributes.\n\nThe conceptual work and future implementations are aimed at supporting four tasks, frequently executed by users in a library context -- either the library patrons (the first three tasks), or the librarians themselves (all four tasks):\n\n\nNext to the development of FRAR, the Working Group on Functional Requirements and Numbering of Authority Records (FRANAR) is also charged to study the feasibility of an International Standard Authority Data Number (ISADN) and serve as the official IFLA liaison to and work with other interested groups concerning authority files.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55530180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55530180", "title": "Geograph Channel Islands", "text": "Geograph Channel Islands\n\nGeograph Channel Islands is a web-based project, initiated in April 2010, to create a freely accessible archive of geographically located photographs of the Channel Islands.\nPhotographs in the Geograph Channel Islands collection are chosen to illustrate geographical features all parts of the Channel Islands. It is an offshoot of Geograph Britain and Ireland which began in March 2008.\n"}
{"id": "1744583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744583", "title": "Giuseppe Bergman", "text": "Giuseppe Bergman\n\nGiuseppe Bergman is the Candide-like protagonist of the works of Italian cartoonist Milo Manara. The anti-heroic Italian youth stars in four graphic novels (comic books) which are an ironic deconstruction of adventure stories and comic books as a medium.\n\nThe first adventure, later collected for publication as \"HP et Giuseppe Bergman\" (\"The Great Adventure\" in Catalan’s English translation), was originally serialized in the Franco-Belgian comics magazine \"À Suivre\" beginning in 1978. Giuseppe Bergman appears as a dissatisfied 20-something longing for adventure. Seeking it, he responds to the advertisement of a mysterious company which sends him to HP, \"the adventure master”: a caricature of and homage to famed Italian cartoonist Hugo Pratt. Bergman finds himself confronted by hoodlums, rioters, white slavers, drug addicts, revolutionaries, and natives, but his adventures are bumbling disasters as he is consistently unprepared for the situations he encounters. In later adventures, collected in the graphic novels \"An Author in Search of Six Characters\", \"Dies Irae\", \"Perchance to Dream\", and \"To See the Stars\", Bergman’s frustrating adventures take him through Africa, India, and the world of European art. Themes of art and illusion, fantasy and frustration, responsibility and human nature run through the stories.\n\nMilo Manara is best known for his erotic work. This is an aspect of the Bergman stories which, while originally making an intellectual point, gradually comes to take over the series as a whole.\n"}
{"id": "24530565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24530565", "title": "Glasmuseet Ebeltoft", "text": "Glasmuseet Ebeltoft\n\nGlasmuseet Ebeltoft is a museum in Ebeltoft, Denmark. It is dedicated to the exhibition and collection of contemporary glass art worldwide. \n\nThe museum was founded in 1985 by Danish glass artists Finn Lynggaard and Tchai Munch. It is administered by the private Foundation for the Collection of Contemporary International Studio Glass. The museum makes its home in Ebeltofts's former Customs and Excise House; in 2006 a modern wing was added to the original building. In addition to exhibition spaces, the museum has a library, gift shop and cafe that are open to the public. Also in 2006 an enclosed garden and glass-blowing studio were added to the complex. The glass studio presents glass working demonstrations to the public and seminars for students of glass.\n\nThe museum presents four to six exhibitions per year that focus on contemporary glass art. It shows experimental work by young artists in group and solo shows, as well as new work by well-established artists. Organized by museum staff, the exhibitions often include catalogs that are printed in several languages for the benefit of an international audience. Glasmuseet Ebeltoft often loans the exhibitions it creates to museums in other countries. In the past these countries have included China, England, Finland, Germany and the United States.\n\nGlasmuseet Ebeltoft’s collection contains 1500 objects by 600 artists. Its holdings are composed of donations and loans of art works, obtained in most cases directly from the artists whose work is desired by the museum. The museum’s collection is most unusual in that artists who have been invited to be represented in it are permitted to exchange or supplement their works in the collection with new pieces.\n\nArtists represented by work in the collection include Klaus Moje and Nick Mount of Australia; Louis Leloup of Belgium; Václav Ciglar, František Janák, Jiří Harcuba, Pavel Hlava, Stanislav Libenský and Jaroslava Brychtová and René Roubíček of the Czech Republic; Eva Engström, Finn Lynggaard and Tchai Munch of Denmark; Ivo Lill of Estonia; Erwin Eisch, Ursula Merker, Gerhard Ribka, Kurt Wallstab and Ann Wolff of Germany; Ursula Huber-Peer, Pino Signoretto, Bruno Pedrosa and Lino Tagliapietra of Italy; Durk Valkema and Sybren Valkema of the Netherlands; Anna Carlgren, Gunnar Cyrén, Eva Englund, Göran Wärff and Ulrica Hydman-Vallien of Sweden, Charles Bray and David Reekie of the United Kingdom; and Rick Beck, Gary Beecham, William Bernstein, Katharine Bernstein, Nicole Chesney, Dale Chihuly, Fritz Dreisbach, Shane Fero, Robert Fritz, Michael Glancy, Richard Jolley, Jon Kuhn, Marvin Lipofsky, Harvey Littleton, John Littleton/Kate Vogel, Dante Marioni, Richard Marquis, Joel Philip Myers, Mary Shaffer, Paul Stankard, Michael Taylor and Toots Zynsky of the United States.\n\nBecause it receives no direct financial support from the Danish government, Glassmuseet Ebeltoft relies on sponsorships from Denmark's business community. The museum's three major sponsors are the textile company Kvadrat, Djursland Bank and NRGi energy company. Other corporate supporters include Primagaz, Montana Møbler, Blue Water Shipping, Cerama and Mois Linien.\n\nVolunteer help is drawn from the museum's \"Friends Society\", which has about 900 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "54956793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54956793", "title": "Global Retirement Index", "text": "Global Retirement Index\n\nThe Global Retirement Index (GRI) is an attempt to examine the factors that drive retirement security and to provide a comparison tool for best practice in retirement policy. It has been published since 2012 by the French company Natixis, which specialises in asset management.\n\nNorway, Switzerland and Iceland are respectively the first, second and third placed countries. India ranks 43rd, which is the bottom rank; it is preceded by Greece and ranks also last among the BRIC economies.\n\nThe countries on the list are from the following organisations:\n\n\nThe Global Retirement Index is a composite welfare index which combines at total of 18 target-oriented indicators which are grouped into four thematic categories to calculate the position on the index. The indicators are then used to create a percentage score; countries are ranked by the score.\n\nThe four categories cover four relevant considerations for welfare in old age are listed below, along with the indicators that fall under them:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34518195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34518195", "title": "Hey Kid, Catch!", "text": "Hey Kid, Catch!\n\n\"Hey Kid, Catch!\" was a television commercial for Coca-Cola starring Pittsburgh Steelers defensive tackle \"Mean\" Joe Greene. The commercial debuted on October 1, 1979, and was re-aired multiple times, most notably during Super Bowl XIV in 1980. The 60-second commercial won a Clio Award for being one of the best television commercials of 1979.\n\nDuring its planning and filming stages, McCann Erickson, the advertising agency that created the commercial, used the working title \"Mean Joe Greene\". The commercial was a part of Coca-Cola's \"Have a Coke and a Smile\" ad campaign of the late 1970s. The commercial's set-up and payoff is classic simple advertising.\n\nAfter sustaining an injury during a football game, Greene is limping alone into the tunnel toward the Steelers' locker room when a young boy (played by Tommy Okon) comes up behind him offering his help, which Greene declines. After telling Greene that he still thinks he's the best, the boy offers him his bottle of Coke, which Greene refuses at first, but the boy wants him to have it; Greene sheepishly accepts it with thanks and drinks the entire bottle as the boy quietly says \"See ya 'round\" and slowly walks away. When Greene finishes the Coke he turns back to the boy and says \"Hey, Kid.. Catch,\" tossing his jersey (slung over his shoulder) to the surprised boy who happily says \"Wow! Thanks, Mean Joe!\". Greene casts a smile toward the boy before continuing his trek to the locker room.\n\nThe commercial has been listed as one of the top ads of all time by multiple sources, including \"TV Guide\". The ad later received worldwide acclaim when it was re-filmed in various countries using indigenous sports figures in each version. \n\nThe campaign's art director was Roger Mosconi, the writer was Penny Hawkey, and the singers of the \"Coke and a Smile\" jingle were Jim Campbell, Don Thomas, Liz Corrigan, Shellie Littman, Arlene Martell, and Linda November. The footage was shot in May 1979 at a small stadium in Mount Vernon, New York, and the commercial first aired on October 1, 1979 on ABC's \"Monday Night Football\", though its airing during Super Bowl XIV in 1980 brought it the most attention due to the program's enormous audience.\n\nGreene later recalled that in filming the commercial, it took several takes to get his final line in the commercial in without burping. \"Between me belching and going to the men's room, it took three days to film it,\" Greene recalled. The end of the commercial was also shown during the 2004 film Miracle when the USA vs. USSR hockey game was on a commercial break.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56811091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56811091", "title": "Historisch Centrum Leeuwarden", "text": "Historisch Centrum Leeuwarden\n\nHistorisch Centrum Leeuwarden (Historical Center Leeuwarden), located in Leeuwarden, Netherlands, preserves documents pertaining to the history of Leeuwarden.\n\nLeeuwarden was the first Dutch city to get an official city archive in 1838. was the first archivist. Historisch Centrum Leeuwarden (HCL) was established in 2001. Since 2007 it is located in a new building in the city-centre.\n\nThe main focus of Historisch Centrum Leeuwarden is preserving the municipal archives of Leeuwarden. The archives consists of hundreds of archives from the municipal government, companies, private people, families and various organisations. It also houses the largest image collection of the northern Netherlands, an extensive library with books and multimedia and a municipal art collection. The exhibition \"The story of Leeuwarden\" tells the history of the Frisian capital.\n\nIt is also custodian of Archaeological Centre Leeuwarden, the leaning tower of Oldehove and the nearby Pier Pander Museum with Temple. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4719109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4719109", "title": "In-mould labelling", "text": "In-mould labelling\n\nIn-mould labelling is the use of paper or plastic labels during the manufacturing of containers by blow molding, injection molding, or thermoforming processes. The label serves as the integral part of the final product, which is then delivered as pre-decorated item. Combining the decoration process with the moulding process cuts the total cost, but can increase the manufacturing time. The technology was first developed by Owens-Illinois in cooperation with Procter & Gamble to supply pre-labelled bottles that could be filled on the product filling line. This was first applied to Head & Shoulders shampoo bottles.\n\nIn-mould labelling (IML) was initially designed for blow molding, though developments using injection molding or thermoforming with reel-fed systems have increased the efficiency of the labelling process. The original concept involves coating the reverse side of the label with a heat seal layer, followed by a substrate material in which heat resistant ink is applied to. A heat resistant coating of lacquer is then applied. This process eliminates the need to flame treat the bottles prior to labelling in order to achieve adequate adhesion. Initially, paper was used as the label substrate to which the heat reactive adhesive was applied. In more recent times polyolefin substrates have been employed, such as Polyart from Arjobex Synthetic Papers. This creates the advantage that scrap polyethylene and polypropylene bottles produced in the molding process can be recycled, without the need for label removal prior to recycling. \n\nThere are several techniques for conducting the in-mould labelling process. Vacuum and compressed air can be used to handle the labels, also static electricity can be used. Electrostatic charging electrodes charge a label while it is being transferred to the moulding machine, so that when the label is placed on the tool and released by the labelling robot, it will wrap itself onto the tool. Most robot systems for placement of labels are not required for specific moulding machines and can be used with up to date presses with fast clamping systems.\n\nLabels may be paper or a similar material to the moulded product. Polypropylene or polystyrene is commonly used as label material, with a thickness of 15 to 40 micrometres. Cavitated label material is also used. This is a sandwich material, having a spongy layer bonded between two very thin solid layers. An advantage of cavitated film is better conformance to small-radius curves on a product. Laminated film can be used to decorate products, yielding high wear-resistance. This type of film has the printed surface protected by a second layer of film, with a thickness of 30 or 40 micrometres. Products using this type of label might include picnic-ware, mouse-mats, or internal automotive components.\n\nIn-mould labelling is a popular method of decorating injection molded parts for consumer electronics and for plastic bottles. Notebook computer and cellphone manufacturers are adopting IML technology for greater wear resistance than spray painting or pad-printing. IML can provide greater decorating options than other methods. Multi-color screen printed and offset lithography printed graphics are used to produce products with higher quality graphics than available with other decorating methods. Most applications in this area use second surface graphics. The decoration is printed on the back side of a clear substrate, typically polycarbonate or acrylic 0.125mm to 0.375mm thick. The injection plastic is on the ink side of the film. This encapsulates the decoration between the film layer and the injected plastic resulting in a decoration that can't be abraded during use. Vision systems can check for accurate label positioning, and can validate label correctness.\n\n"}
{"id": "4913207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4913207", "title": "Institut national de l'audiovisuel", "text": "Institut national de l'audiovisuel\n\nThe Institut national de l'audiovisuel (abbrev. INA), () is a repository of all French radio and television audiovisual archives. Additionally it provides free access to archives of countries such as Afghanistan and Cambodia. It has its headquarters in Bry-sur-Marne.\n\nSince 2006, it has allowed free online consultation on a website called ina.fr with a search tool indexing 100,000 archives of historical programs, for a total of 20,000 hours.\n\nIn the 1980s, it issued a large number of recordings on the label France's Concert Records. In the 1990s it launched its own label INA mémoire as the historical recording label of the Institut national de l'audiovisuel, and of the archives of Radio France.\n\nThe Institut national de l'audiovisuel was founded in 1975 by a law of 1974 with the purpose of conserving archives of audiovisual materials, research relating to them and professional training. In 1992, legal deposit was extended to television and radio, and the institute was to be the depository. This led to the establishment of the \"Inathèque\" in 1995, with the aim of conserving and making its holdings available to researchers and students. It was opened to the public in October 1998, at the Bibliothèque nationale de France - site François-Mitterrand. In 2002, legal deposit was extended to cable and satellite television and in 2005 to terrestrial digital television. From September 2006, the institute has been responsible for archiving 17 radio and 45 television services amounting to 300,000 hours per year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3869712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3869712", "title": "Jamaica Anansi Stories", "text": "Jamaica Anansi Stories\n\nJamaica Anansi Stories is a book by Martha Warren Beckwith published in 1924. It is a collection of folklore, riddles and transcriptions of folk music, all involving the trickster Anansi, gathered from Jamaicans of African descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "12079047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12079047", "title": "Jixiao Xinshu", "text": "Jixiao Xinshu\n\nThe Jixiao Xinshu () or New Treatise on Military Efficiency is a military manual written during the 1560s and 1580s by the Ming dynasty general Qi Jiguang. Its primary significance is in advocating for a combined arms approach to warfare using five types of infantry and two type of support. Qi Jiguang separated infantry into five separate categories: firearms, swordsmen, archers with fire arrows, ordinary archers, and spearmen. He split support crews into horse archers and artillery units. The \"Jixiao Xinshu\" is also one of the earliest extant Asian extant texts to address the relevance of martial arts to military training and warfare. Several contemporary martial arts styles of Qi's era are mentioned in the book, including the staff method of the Shaolin temple.\n\nIn the late 16th century the military of the Ming dynasty was in poor condition. As the Mongol forces of Altan Khan raided the northern frontier, China's coastline fell prey to \"wokou\" pirates, who were ostensibly Japanese in origin. Qi Jiguang was assigned to the defense of Zhejiang in 1555, where he created his own standards of military organization, equipment, tactics, training, and procedures. He published his thoughts on military techniques, tactics, and strategies in the \"Jixiao Xinshu\" after achieving several victories in battle.\n\nThere are two editions of the \"Jixiao Xinshu\". The first edition was written from 1560-1561 and consists of 18 chapters. It is known as the 18 chapter edition. The second edition, published in 1584 during Qi's forced retirement, included re-edited and new material compiled in 14 chapters. It is known as the 14 chapter edition.\n\nThe chapters included in the 18-chapter edition are as follows:\n\nIn the \"Jixiao Xinshu\", Qi Jiguang recommended a 12-man team known as the \"mandarin duck formation\" (), which consisted of 11 soldiers and one person for logistics.\n\n\nThe mandarin duck formation was ideally symmetrical. Excluding the corporal and cook/porter, the ten remaining men could be split into two identical five-man squads. This was so that when Japanese pirates made it past the long lances, the saber-and-shield men formed a protective screen for the vulnerable lancers. In battle, the two saber-and-shield men had different roles. The one on the right would hold the advance position of the squad, while the one on the left was to throw javelins and lure the enemy closer. The two men with multiple tip bamboo spears would entangle the pirates while the lancers attacked them. The trident carriers guarded the flanks and rear.\n\nAfter suffering several defeats to pirates, Qi also made a recommendation for a concerted campaign to integrate musket teams into the army, based on their superior range and firepower compared to bows and arrows. Qi became enamored with the musket after his defeats and became one of the primary proponents of their use in the Ming army. He favored it for its accuracy and its ability to penetrate armor.\n\nIdeally an entire musket team would have 10 musketeers, but often had 4 or 2 in practice. The optimal musket formation that Qi proposed was a 12 man musket team similar to the melee mandarin duck formation. However, instead of fighting in a hand to hand formation, they operated on the principle of volley fire, which Qi pioneered prior to the publication of the first edition of the \"Jixiao Xinshu\". The teams could be arranged in a single line, formed two layers deep with five musketeers each, or five layers deep with two muskets per layer. Once the enemy was within range, each layer would fire in succession, and afterwards a unit armed with traditional close combat weapons would move forward ahead of the musketeers. The troops would then enter into melee combat with the enemy together. Alternatively, the musketeers could be placed behind wooden stockades or other fortifications, firing and reloading continuously by turns.\n\nEach squad was drilled in coordinated and mutually-supportive combat scenarios with clearly defined roles. Because Qi's troops were recruited from peasant stock, and were not considered the equals of their Japanese foes, Qi Jiguang emphasized the use of combined arms and squad tactics. Units were rewarded or punished collectively: an officer was executed if his entire unit fled the enemy, and if a squad leader was killed in battle, the whole squad would be put to death.\n\nThe standard procedure for the procurement of weapons for a commander such as Qi Jiguang was for production quotas to be assigned by provincial officials to each local district under the commander's responsibility. The resulting weapons produced under this system varied widely in quality. Muskets in particular exploded with alarming frequency, leading Qi to eschew reliance on firearms in favor of using melee tools such as swords, rattan shields, and sharpened bamboo poles. However, later in his career Qi became a strong proponent of integrating muskets after suffering several defeats to the pirates. Qi's reconsideration of firearms in warfare led to the creation of the first well drilled musket teams in China. Qi was also a pioneer of the musket volley fire technique, which would later be adopted throughout China and Korea. Included in the manual are several passages detailing the usage of muskets, the volley fire technique, and an estimation of the percentage of firearms that would likely fail to fire.\n\nThe manual provides the following description of the forging of swords:\n\nThe last chapter of the \"Jixiao Xinshu\", the \"Quanjing Jieyao Pian\", covers the subject of unarmed combat. Qi Jiguang regarded unarmed fighting as being useless on the battlefield. However, he recognized its value as a form of basic training to strengthen his troops, improving their physical fitness and confidence. Qi selected thirty-two postures to illustrate, from among the martial arts of the period. The description of the techniques is written in verse, typically with seven characters per line.\n\nIn the chapter's introduction, Qi names sixteen different fighting styles, all of which he considered to have been handed down in an incomplete fashion, \"some missing the lower part, some missing the upper\". Among the arts listed is the Shaolin staff method, which was later documented in detail in Cheng Zongyou's \"Exposition of the Original Shaolin Staff Method\", published around 1610. By contrast, Shaolin unarmed fighting techniques are not mentioned. The entire listing of late Ming dynasty martial arts was later copied without attribution by a manual of the Shaolin style, the \"Hand Combat Classic\" (\"Quanjing quanfa beiyao\"). However, the later manual, with a preface dated to 1784, altered the text, adding a spurious claim that the history of hand combat had originated at the Shaolin Monastery.\n\nQi's discussion of hand-to-hand combat makes no mention of a spiritual element to the martial arts, nor does it allude to breathing or qi circulation. By contrast, Chinese martial arts texts from the Ming-Qing transition onward represent a synthesis of functional martial arts techniques with Daoist \"daoyin\" health practices, breathing exercises, and meditation.\n\nQi Jiguang was one of several Ming authors to document the military tactics and martial arts techniques of the era. The earliest known documentation of specific styles of Chinese martial arts were produced during the late Ming piracy crisis, as scholars and generals such as Qi and his contemporary Yu Dayou turned their attention to reversing the decline of the Ming military. In the late 16th century, the Japanese invasions of Korea (1592–98) also spurred great interest in military training methods within the Korean government. Qi Jiguang's writings were of particular interest because of his successful campaigns against Japanese pirates several decades prior. The 14-chapter edition of the \"Jixiao Xinshu\" served as a model for the oldest known extant Korean military manual, the Muyejebo, and was disseminated among Korean military thinkers. During the Qing conquest of Ming, Joseon provided 10,000 musketeers to aid the Ming army in the Battle of Sarhu and successfully fought the Manchus until their allies were defeated.\n\nIn Japan both the 14 and 18 chapter editions were published several times, and some methods from the \"Jixiao Xinshu\" were transferred over to the \"Heiho Hidensho\" (Okugisho), a Japanese strategy book written by Yamamoto Kanasuke in the 16th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "56772557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56772557", "title": "Letter to the Magnesians (Ignatius)", "text": "Letter to the Magnesians (Ignatius)\n\nThe Letter to the Magnesians is an early-second-century letter by Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch Church Father and martyr, was written to the church in Magnesian during the bishop's transport from Antioch, Syria, to his execution in Rome. Magnesians is one of seven epistles written by Ignatius to early centers of Christianity in Anatolia.\n\nThe Magnesian and Trallian churches had sent their bishops Polybius of Trallis andDamas in company with two presbyters from Magnesia to meet Ignatius who was being held at the nearby port of Smyrna on his way to execution in Rome, and Ignatius writes his letter to thank the Magnesian church.\nThe letter calls for unity and submission in the church and Cautions against false doctrines.\n"}
{"id": "46751209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46751209", "title": "Lisa Dennison", "text": "Lisa Dennison\n\nLisa Dennison is the chairman of Sotheby's North and South America. She was previously the director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City. She became director around 2005, and resigned around 2007 to work at the auction house Sotheby's, where she is now Chairperson.\n\nDennison grew up in New Jersey and attended Wellesley College, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in Art History and French in 1975. She also attended Brown University, receiving a Master of Arts degree in Art History there in 1978.\n\nDennison first worked at the Guggenheim as a summer intern of Wellesley College in 1973; in 1978 she began working there independently. She worked as an exhibition coordinator, assistant curator, and deputy director and chief curator. In October 2005, she became the director of the museum. At that time, she was also approached by the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Cleveland Museum of Art to work as a director there. She replaced seventeen-year director Thomas Krens, who was also the director of the Guggenheim Foundation.\n\nAs director of the Guggenheim, Dennison organized 35 shows, one of which was a traveling exhibition of 125 works in the Guggenheim’s collection.\n"}
{"id": "21009192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21009192", "title": "List of Ultimate Marvel publications", "text": "List of Ultimate Marvel publications\n\nTitles in this section are organized by approximate publication date and line title.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102550", "title": "List of Unification movement people", "text": "List of Unification movement people\n\nThis page is a list of prominent members and supporters of the Unification movement, founded by Sun Myung Moon.\n\nThe family of Rev. Moon and his wife Hak Ja Han are known as the \"True Family\". Rev. and Mrs. Moon are known as \"True Father\" and \"True Mother\" within the movement, and collectively as the \"True Parents.\" Their children are known as the \"True Children.\"\n\n\n\nThese are some people well known for their support of the Unification movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "38281444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38281444", "title": "List of important publications in pedagogy", "text": "List of important publications in pedagogy\n\nThis is a list of important publications in pedagogy, organized by field.\n\nSome reasons why a particular publication might be regarded as important:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "643649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=643649", "title": "List of most-watched television broadcasts", "text": "List of most-watched television broadcasts\n\nThe following content contains the tentative list of the most-watched television broadcasts around the world in selected countries, with the corresponding peak viewership (or ratings share) records, the corresponding year of such broadcast, and the mentioned media research organizations tallying nationwide viewership records. However, the most-watched television broadcast in any of the following nations can also be broadcast simultaneously in other countries and rank among their most-watched television broadcasts as well.\n\nOn July 20, 1969, an estimated 530 million people watched the live global broadcast of the Apollo 11 moonlanding (this constituted around 14% of total population of the world at the time), despite the fact that the first moonwalk took place in the middle of the night in Europe (at 01:56 in Iceland; 02:56 in Ireland, Portugal and the United Kingdom; 03:56 in Andorra. Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Yugoslavia and 04:56 in Finland, Greece and Turkey) and it was not broadcast in the Eastern Bloc (except in Romania (04:56) and Poland) (03:56).\n\nThe boxer Muhammad Ali drew record global television audiences during the 1970s to early 1980s. Estimates of Ali's worldwide television audiences for his \"Rumble in the Jungle\" fight against George Foreman in 1974, \"Thrilla in Manila\" fight against Joe Frazier in 1975, rematch against Leon Spinks in 1978, and \"Last Hurrah\" fight against Larry Holmes in 1980, range between 1billion and 2billion people. The 1996 Summer Olympics opening ceremony, where Muhammad Ali lit the torch, was watched by an estimated 3.5billion viewers. The funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1997 was watched by an estimated 2billion people globally, making it the all-time most-watched royal event on live television in the world.\n\nThe original Live Aid was a dual-venue benefit concert held on 13 July 1985. It became an ongoing music-based fundraising initiative. The original event was organised by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure to raise funds for relief of the ongoing Ethiopian famine. Billed as the \"global jukebox\", the event was held simultaneously at Wembley Stadium in London, England, United Kingdom (attended by 72,000 people) and John F. Kennedy Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States (attended by about 100,000 people). Many similar events happened the same day in other countries, such as the Soviet Union, Canada, Japan, Yugoslavia, Austria, Australia and West Germany. It was one of the largest-scale television event of all time, watched across 150 nations, with an estimated global audience of 1.9 billion who watched the live broadcast.\n\nIn 1990, Roger Waters played a concert in Berlin known as The Wall – Live in Berlin to commemorate the fall of the Berlin Wall. The concert was subject to a live audience of 450,000 and was broadcast to 35 countries, with an estimated broadcasting audience of 500 million to 1 billion people.\n\nProminent personalities in the 1990s and 2000s such as David Hasselhoff and Mexico's Thalia (currently based in the U.S.) starred in primetime series such as the \"Las Tres Marias\" trilogy shows (\"Maria Mercedes\", \"Marimar\" and \"Maria la del Barrio\"), \"Rosalinda\" and \"Baywatch\", which were broadcast in about 180 countries and still remained among the world's most-watched non-U.S.-produced television series.\n\nU.S. television programming remains one of the most popular forms of entertainment worldwide. This trend was initiated by U.S.-made broadcast network soap operas and sitcoms such as \"Dallas\", \"M*A*S*H\", \"The Cosby Show\", \"Seinfeld\", \"Friends\" and \"The Big Bang Theory\" by the mid-2000s, and then in the late 2000s and 2010s by U.S. medical dramas and police procedurals such as \"House\", and the \"\" and \"NCIS\" franchises. All of these are currently syndicated in more than 100 countries, and rank among the most-watched television series in the world, extending their dominance to a three-decade span.\n\nIn recent decades, the global popularity of U.S. television is rivaled by European television programming and television dramas from Latin America and Asia. The annual Eurovision Song Contest, considered to be one of the world's longest running and most-watched reality television franchises, annually attracts a peak of 600 million viewers. Eurovision has consistently ranked among the all-time most-watched live non-sports entertainment telecasts worldwide in the last 2 decades. \"Idols\", airing since 2001, has the largest collective global franchise viewership in the world to date, shown in versions in over 150 countries worldwide and has been watched by over 3.2billion viewers.\n\nThe 2008 Summer Olympics opening ceremony set the record for the largest viewing figure for any sports event, reaching an average daily audience of 593 million worldwide. Over 3.6/1.025 round 1billion people saw some part of the 16-day coverage, including the opening and closing ceremonies of the Beijing-hosted Olympic games. The FIFA World Cup has attracted an average of 3.2 billion viewers in 2010 and 2014, making it the most-watched overall live event by average on television worldwide in the 21st century.\n\nIn 2010, over 1.1 billion people were reported to have watched the 2010–2011 Sydney New Year's Eve coverage, constituting approximately 16% of the world population at that time and still remains the most-watched New Year's Eve live telecast in the world. As one of the first major New Year's celebrations globally each year, Sydney New Year's Eve annual coverage are live in all time zones in both Asia, Australia and Oceania on 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011.\n\nFew cable television programs have ranked among the world's most-watched television broadcasts beginning the mid-2010s. In particular, notable scripted series like \"Game of Thrones\", \"Sherlock\" and \"Doctor Who\", originating from both the U.S. and UK, have been currently aired to more than 100 countries. The annual Miss Universe and Miss World pageants, headquartered in the U.S. and UK, respectively, and aired live to more than 190 countries yearly, are said to have each regularly attracted more than 500million viewers and consistently ranks among the most-watched live annual entertainment telecasts in the world.\n\nRegional annual sporting events like the Super Bowl in the U.S., and the UEFA Champions League finals in Europe, televised live worldwide, have emerged among the world's most-watched television broadcasts.\n\nThe 2015 Cricket World Cup is estimated to have been watched by an estimated 2.2billion people. The most widely watched match during the tournament was India vs. Pakistan, which is estimated to have drawn over 1billion viewers.\n\nMost reality television franchise broadcasts and international sporting events (which are aired in several countries) tend to comprise some of the most-watched television programs, as tallied by their media research bases. Beginning the mid-2010s, the majority of the world's most-watched television broadcasts, including all of the world's major international sporting events, are often broadcast live via satellite across virtually all of the world's time zones in seven continents.\n\nThe following is David Dale's approximate ranking of the most-watched television shows of all time in Australia using data from Nielsen Corporation and OzTAM\n\nNote: the funeral of Princess Diana, the Wedding of Prince Charles and the Wedding of Prince William were all carried by all 4 major networks and are counted together.\n\nThe following table is a list of the most viewed programmes based on the OzTAM 5 City Metro Average rating system. It does not include regional numbers (40% of the population) and uses the average viewership, not the peak viewership. Also note these ratings are not comparable with ratings before 2001 due to different methodologies used after this time.\n\nThe two most-watched television broadcasts in Canadian history occurred during the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. For the gold medal game of the men's hockey tournament at the 2010 Winter Olympics, played between the United States and Canada, confirmed 16.6 million Canadians watched the whole game, roughly one-half of the country's entire population. A groundbreaking 26.5 million Canadians watched some part of the game, over 80 percent of the country's 34-million-person population. According to multiple sources, 13.3 million Canadians watched the games' opening ceremony, which was the previous record.\n\nMany believed the final game of the 1972 Summit Series had up to 18 million viewers, but only 4.3 million TVs tuned in. This statistic does not represent the reality that most school children (representing the tail end of the baby-boom i.e. a large population) nationwide watched the game in gymnasiums on only one or two TVs. 10.3 million people watched the ice hockey gold medal final of the 2002 Winter Olympics.\n\nChina Central Television's Spring Festival Gala has regularly attracted between 700 million to one billion viewers annually.\n\nThe CCTV's main evening news broadcast Xinwen Lianbo has a daily audience of around 135 million people, and it is also one of the most expensive shows in the world per advertising spots, with its 2013 advertising slots selling for a record of 5.4 billion yuan.\n\n\"Note\": The UEFA Euro 2008 final is missing from the list, because the lengthy trophy presentation was included into the official ratings. The game itself was watched by 28.05 million viewers.\n\nIndia measures shows through TRP (Television Rating Point). Shows had higher ratings in 2000s versus now. The only show now that scores above just the 3.3 mark is Kumkum Bhagya, and its spin off Kundali Bhagya along with Naagin (2015 TV series) all shows produced by the same banner Balaji Telefilms- ironically 2.5-3.5 TRP was considered an average in the 2000s era of serials. The most-watched channel for years has been Star Plus , then Zee TV with major competition from Colors. \"Mahabharat\" (19881990), the television adaptation of Indian epic \"Mahabharata\", had a share of 97.8% among Indian viewers.\n\nAamir Khan's talk show \"Satyamev Jayate\" (20122014) drew an estimated audience of 600million viewers in India. The 2016 ICC World Twenty20 cricket cup was watched by an estimated 730million viewers in India, with India vs. Pakistan being the most widely watched live event during the tournament. The \"Doraemon\" anime series is India's highest-rated children's television show as of 2017, with a total of 478.5million viewers across Hungama TV and Disney Channel India.\n\nA list of most-watched shows in the Republic of Ireland in the 21st century was released in January 2015. \"The Late Late Toy Show\" held the top six spots, with the 2014 edition drawing 1,593,000 viewers: over one-third of the country's population. Other high-performing shows were \"Who Wants to be a Millionaire?\", crime drama \"Love/Hate\", \"Mrs. Brown's Boys\", \"The Sunday Game\", UEFA Euro 2012 and the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nThe following list is for Japanese anime only.\nA list of most-watched shows in the Mexico, Televisa and TV Azteca broadcasters (Liga MX Apertura and \nClausura), Boxing, 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, (FIFA World Cup hosts 1970 & 1986), some concerts like Maná's Unidos por La Paz at Estadio Azteca in March, 2001, Funeral events like Chespirito at December, 2014 the creator of TV Series El Chavo del ocho and El Chapulin Colorado, and Celebration of Mexican political anniversaries in 2010 celebrate independence from Spain also called Bicentenario 2010, had an average audience of over 40 million views in Mexican Television.\n\nIn 2011, the television website Throng published a list of the 12 most-watched television broadcasts in New Zealand from 1995 to 2011. This is based on average viewership of the program, but it does not include broadcasts from before 1995 or after 2011.\n\nThe Rugby World Cup has frequently had large audiences – the Rugby World Cup 2011 final, and a semi-final, both had an average audience of over 2 million.\n\nThe following table shows the all-time highest rating television shows in Mega Manila as tallied by AGB Nielsen since 1992. However, ratings are from a single highest recorded episode of the show (in the case of the TV series) and it is not the average over-all ratings for the whole season or series.\n\nList of the 10 most-watched television broadcasts since the beginning of telemetry research in Poland (since 1997) by Nielsen Media Research:\n\nViewership ratings are provided by two companies in South Korea, AGB Nielsen Media Research and TNmS. Originally Media Service Korea was the only company providing such information, and it was later acquired by Nielsen Media Research. In 1999 TNS Media Korea also began such service, and later changed its name to TNmS. AGB collects viewership data based on 2050 households, while TNmS has 2000 households with measuring devices. Drama ratings usually vary between the two companies by 2–3%.\n\nStatistics from Mediamätning Skandinavien.\n\nThe majority of special events attracting large audiences are often carried on more than one channel. The most-watched programme of all time on a single channel is the 1973 wedding ceremony of The Princess Anne, shown only on BBC1. The figures in these tables represent the average viewership achieved by each broadcast during its run-time and do not include peak viewership.\n\n\n\"Notes\":\n\n\nThe following is a list of most-watched programmes, excluding sporting events and news coverage. The mid-1980s introduction of in-week repeat showings accounts for six of the top ten programmes. On this measure, the 1996 Christmas edition of \"Only Fools and Horses\" is the most-watched non-repeated, non-documentary programme of all time in the UK. It is the third most-watched programme of all time on a single channel, after the 2012 Summer Olympics closing ceremony and the wedding of Princess Anne and Mark Phillips in 1973 (see below).\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Denotes aggregated figure with repeat showing.\n\nNBC's live telecast of Super Bowl XLIX in 2015 currently holds the record for the largest average viewership of any live single-network U.S. television broadcast, with 114.4 million viewers. During this broadcast, the halftime show featuring Katy Perry was watched by 118.5 million viewers. The previous live telecast Super Bowl XLV in February 2011 helped Fox become the first ever television network in the United States to be watched by at least 100 million American viewers by average for a single primetime night of programming. Moreover, Super Bowl telecasts account for 23 of the most-watched television broadcasts based on overall viewership in U.S. television history. Fox's live telecast of Super Bowl LI in 2017 currently holds the largest total viewership in U.S. television history, peaking at 172 million viewers in Super Bowl's first ever overtime play.\n\nAdditionally, the National Football League (or NFL) regular season is watched since 2012 by at least 200 million individuals in the United States, accounting for the largest consistent annual nationwide viewership for any television event in U.S. television history (representing almost 70% of the American households, more than 80% of the total U.S. television viewers, and more than 60% of the 2018 U.S. population of 325 million individuals).\n"}
{"id": "1616718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616718", "title": "List of reporting marks: F", "text": "List of reporting marks: F\n\n"}
{"id": "1024548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024548", "title": "Mae Young", "text": "Mae Young\n\nJohnnie Mae Young (March 12, 1923 – January 14, 2014) was an American professional wrestler. She wrestled throughout the United States, Canada and won multiple titles in the National Wrestling Alliance. Young is considered as one of the pioneers in women's wrestling as she helped to increase the popularity of the sport throughout the 1940s and during World War II. In 1954, she and Mildred Burke were among the first female competitors to tour post-war Japan.\n\nBeginning in 1999, Young had a high-profile \"second career\" in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, later Entertainment/WWE). Young was part of a recurring comedic duo with best friend The Fabulous Moolah in appearances on WWE televised events. She is a member of the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum and the WWE Hall of Fame.\n\nJohnnie Mae Young was born in Sand Springs, Oklahoma on March 12, 1923. She was the youngest of eight children (one died at birth). Her mother Lilly Mae Young was a single mother (her partner left to find work and never returned) living during the Great Depression. Young's oldest sister Inie was severely disabled by whooping cough at a very young age. Young was an amateur wrestler on her high school's boys' wrestling team at the age of fifteen. Her brothers Fred, Eugen, Lawarence, and Everett taught her to wrestle and helped her join the team. Young also played softball with Tulsa's national championship team.\n\nWhile still in high school, Young went to a professional wrestling show and challenged then-champion Mildred Burke when she visited Tulsa to wrestle Gladys Gillem. Because the promoters told her she could not wrestle the champion, she wrestled Gillem in a shoot fight, beating her within seconds. After the fight, promoter Billy Wolfe wanted Young to become a professional wrestler. She left home two years later to wrestle professionally. Young later travelled to Charlotte, North Carolina where she met and trained with The Fabulous Moolah and also met Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis whom told her \"I don't like girl wrestlers, women should be in the kitchen, but after seeing you, you was born to be a wrestler.\"\n\nThere have been conflicting reports as to the year in which Young began her career. Young claimed her first match was August 20, 1939, while WWE said she \"started her professional career\" this year. However, Young also once said her first match was March 22, 1940. According to Dave Meltzer of \"The Wrestling Observer\", historians have been unable to find any records that she began in 1939 and that her first match was most likely in 1941. Meltzer wrote, \"In reality, Young is believed to have competed in seven decades, matching the record held by Lou Thesz. [...] You really couldn't call [her] 2010 match anything resembling a pro wrestling match, even giving as much leeway as possible. While she always claimed to have started in 1939, at 16, historians researching have been unable to find any records of her wrestling prior to 1941, when she turned 18 and went on tour with Billy Wolfe's troupe.\"\n\nIn 1941, Young, along with Mildred Burke, opened up Canada for female wrestling. In Canada, they worked for Stu Hart. She was wrestling in Memphis, Tennessee on December 7, 1941, the day that Pearl Harbor was bombed by the Japanese, which led to the United States entering World War II. During the war, Young helped women take advantage of the fact that the men were fighting overseas by expanding their role in the sport.\n\nShe fought under the nicknames of \"The Queen\" and \"The Great Mae Young\", but she used her real name for most of her matches. During the 1950s, she wrestled for Mildred Burke's World Women's Wrestling Association (WWWA). In 1954, Young and Burke were some of the first females to tour Japan after the war. In 1951, she became the National Wrestling Alliance's (NWA) first Florida Women's Champion. Five years later in September 1956, she participated in the battle royal to determine the new NWA World Women's Champion after June Byers was stripped of the title, but the championship was won by Young's friend The Fabulous Moolah. In 1968, she became the NWA's first United States Women's Champion. At this point it is unknown if Mae left the wrestling business, but she returned to them after being hired by the World Wrestling Federation company now WWE in the late 1990s.\n\nAs an instructor, her students included Ric \"The Equalizer\" Drasin and The Fabulous Moolah.\n\nYoung made her World Wrestling Federation (WWF) debut on the September 9, 1999 episode of \"SmackDown!\", seated at ringside with The Fabulous Moolah, Jeff Jarrett invited Moolah into the ring and smashed a guitar over her head and then put Mae into the figure-four leglock for trying to help her. After this appearance, both Mae and Moolah began appearing regularly on WWF televised shows. Mae made her WWF in-ring debut on the September 27 episode of \"Raw is War\"; along with Moolah, she competed in a handicapped evening gown match against WWF Women's Champion Ivory, who stripped Mae from her gown before Moolah picked up the victory. At No Mercy on October 17, Mae managed Moolah, who defeated Ivory for the championship - her last wrestling title before her death in 2007. At Survivor Series on November 14, she and Moolah competed in an eight-woman tag team match along with Debra and Tori against Ivory, Jacqueline, Terri Runnels, and Luna Vachon, with their team coming out victorious.\n\nAt the Royal Rumble event on January 23, 2000, Mae Young won the Miss Royal Rumble 2000 swimsuit contest and afterwards flashed her breasts. However, she was actually wearing a prosthesis and did not actually expose herself. At the end of 1999 and through 2000, Mae developed a storyline along with \"Sexual Chocolate\" Mark Henry where she started dating him, which included a kayfabe pregnancy and attacks by The Dudley Boyz, specifically Bubba Ray Dudley who performed powerbombs on Young through tables twice in consecutive episodes of \"Raw\" - the first being in the ring and the second, in which Young was originally bound to a wheelchair, being off the entryway stage as what has been described as the most notorious powerbomb in WWE history. Mae was 77 years of age at the time, but expressed enthusiasm for the stunt. Her child was eventually delivered and found to be nothing more than a bloody rubber hand. On April 2, Mae accompanied The Kat at WrestleMania 2000 to her match against Terri Runnels; Kat lost the match as Mae was distracted by kissing the guest referee, Val Venis, before attacking Terri and her manager, Moolah. Mae and Moolah appeared backstage on the Christmas Eve edition of RAW in 2001, their last appearance before returning in the summer of 2002.\n\nOn the July 29, 2002 episode of \"Raw\", Mae Young returned along with Moolah, who promote her new book: \"The Fabulous Moolah: First Goddess of the Squared Circle\" before being attacked by 3-Minute Warning by orders of general manager, Eric Bischoff. On the September 15, 2003 episode of \"Raw\", she accompanied Moolah at her last wrestling singles match, in which she defeated Victoria before being attacked by Randy Orton and an infuriated Victoria. On June 15 at Bad Blood, Mae appeared during a segment along with Stone Cold Steve Austin and Eric Bischoff where she stripped herself in the ring and performed a bronco buster on Bischoff before being \"stunned\" by Austin.\n\nIn 2004, Mae Young was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame and Museum as part of their Lady wrestler category class of that year. On the September 23 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Young teamed with Moolah and defeated Dawn Marie and Torrie Wilson.<ref name=\"SmackDown!23/09/04\"></ref>\n\nOn March 23, 2005, Moolah and Mae Young appeared on the \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" show to promote their in which they starred in an about their 1950s heyday along with several other lady wrestlers of their era. On January 8, 2006 at New Year's Revolution, Young re−appeared along with Moolah during a bra & panties gauntlet match where she stripped herself before being attacked by Victoria as she left the ring, which led to both women retaliate and rip off Victoria's shirt. At WrestleMania 22 on April 2, Young appeared along with Moolah during a backstage segment with Snitsky.\n\nAt WrestleMania 23 on April 1, 2007, Mae Young appeared during a backstage segment along with several other WWE superstars and hall of famers. On the August 24 episode of \"SmackDown\", Mae Young made a special appearance winning a Divas bikini contest. Mae's last appearance with Moolah before her death came at SummerSlam in August 2007, both appeared during a backstage segment along with Vince McMahon and Raw's general manager, William Regal, two months prior to her friend's death.\n\nOn March 29, 2008, Young was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as part of the 2008 class. At the ceremony, she was inducted by fellow wrestler and friend, Pat Patterson. The next night at WrestleMania XXIV, she appeared during transmission while she was introduced as part of the 2008 Hall of Fame class. On the 800th episode of \"Raw\" on November 3, Mae Young competed in a 16-Diva tag match, where she was pinned by Beth Phoenix, this was her final match.\n\nAt WrestleMania XXV on April 5, 2009, Mae Young appeared during transmission as the special guest time keeper for the 25-Diva battle royal, which was won by Santina Marella.\n\nOn the November 15, 2010, \"Old School\" edition of \"Raw\", Mae Young won a Falls Count Anywhere handicap match against LayCool, thus becoming the first person ever to wrestle over the age of 80, the first person to wrestle in nine different decades and her final stipulated wrestling match.\n\nAt WrestleMania XXVII on April 3, 2011, Mae appeared backstage during a segment along with The Rock and Eve Torres. During the May 2 episode of \"Raw\", Vickie Guerrero and Dolph Ziggler mockingly presented Mae was a \"birthday gift\" to The Rock, who responded by kissing Young.\n\nMae Young appeared on \"SmackDown: Blast from the Past\" (April 10, 2012), kissing The Great Khali. and \"Raw 1000\" (July 23, 2012), during which she was escorted by a man dressed in a giant hand costume, claiming to be her son. On September 24 episode of \"Raw\", Mae appeared in one of Kane and Daniel Bryan's \"Anger Management\" skits. On the December 31 episode of \"Raw\", Mae Young was warming up for her match with then-Divas Champion Eve Torres and began experiencing stomach cramps as it was later determined that she was once again pregnant and gave birth to \"Baby New Year\", played by Hornswoggle.\n\nIn her last on-screen appearance on the March 4, 2013 episode of \"Old School Raw\", Mae Young's 90th birthday celebration was interrupted by CM Punk. Backstage, WWE Chairman Vince McMahon and WWE executive Triple H presented her with a personally monogrammed Divas Championship belt.\n\nYoung appeared in one WWE video game. She made her in-game debut and appearance at \"WWF No Mercy\" as an unlockable character. Young has been also featured on the mobile game for iOS and Android, WWE SuperCard.\n\nAs a sign of friendship for meeting her longtime friend The Fabulous Moolah, she called her \"Lilian\" while Moolah referred to her by Young. In 1991, Young quit the wrestling business and moved to California to become a Christian evangelist and take care of her mother, who was sick. She later renounced her evangelist lifestyle. In 1991, she moved in with The Fabulous Moolah and midget wrestler Katie Glass at a house in Columbia, South Carolina, an arrangement which lasted until Moolah's death in November 2007.\n\nOn December 31, 2013, it was reported that Young had been hospitalized. \"The Charleston Post & Courier\" erroneously reported that she had died on January 9, 2014. Young's death was announced by the WWE on the morning of January 14 after having died at her home in Columbia, South Carolina. Young was entombed at Greenlawn Memorial Park in Columbia, South Carolina, the same cemetery where her longtime friend The Fabulous Moolah also rests.\n\nOn April 1, 2017, WWE announced that a women's tournament would be taking place in the summer of 2017 at a press conference during the WrestleMania 33 weekend and that there were going to be a total of 32 wrestlers competing.\n\nThe tournament was named after Young as an honour to her and it was exclusively for women from both NXT and the independent circuit, it took place on July 13, and 14, 2017, which aired on the WWE Network on August 28 (round 1) and September 4 (round 2, quarterfinals, and semifinals), and the final match aired live on September 12, also on the WWE Network. The finalists of the inaugural tournament were Shayna Baszler and Kairi Sane, with the winner being Sane on September 12.\n\nIn 2018, the tournament turned annual as it was announced a second event for the Mae Young Classic.\n\nOn January 14, 2014, the exact day of Mae's death, WWE pay tribute to her with a posthumous video which included highlights of her career, and another one six days later on January 20. On January 16, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling dedicated their live Genesis episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" to the memory of Young. On January 17, \"SmackDown\" was also dedicated to her memory. Two weeks later, Shine 16 dedicated to her a 10 bell memorial salute.\n\nOn March 20, 2017, WWE honoured Young during their Women's History Month, a video was released where she was credited as the women pioneer of professional wrestling and was praised for her contributions to the wrestling business by Stephanie McMahon, the late Fabulous Moolah, Ivory, Beth Phoenix and Pat Patterson. On July 30, multiple superstars from the Mae Young Classic recognized and honoured Mae's legacy and life, among them Lita, Jim Ross, Lacey Evans, Mercedes Martinez, Bianca Belair, Marti Belle and Vanessa Borne.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6045801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6045801", "title": "Map (higher-order function)", "text": "Map (higher-order function)\n\nIn many programming languages, map is the name of a higher-order function that applies a given function to each element of a functor, e.g. a list, returning a list of results in the same order. It is often called \"apply-to-all\" when considered in functional form.\n\nThe concept of a map is not limited to lists: it works for sequential containers, tree-like containers, or even abstract containers such as futures and promises.\n\nSuppose we have a list of integers codice_1 and would like to calculate the square of each integer. To do this, we first define a function to codice_2 a single number (shown here in Haskell):\nsquare x = x * x\nAfterwards we may call\n»> map square [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]\nwhich yields codice_3, demonstrating that codice_4 has gone through the entire list and applied the function codice_2 to each element. \n\nBelow, you can see a view of each step of the mapping process for a list of integers codice_6 that we want to map into a new list codice_7 according to the function formula_1 :\n\nThe codice_4 is provided as part of the Haskell's base prelude (i.e. \"standard library\") and is implemented as:\nmap :: (a -> b) -> [a] -> [b]\nmap _ [] = []\nmap f (x : xs) = f x : map f xs\n\nIn Haskell, the polymorphic function codice_9 is generalized to a polytypic function codice_10, which applies to any type belonging the codice_11 type class.\n\nThe type constructor of lists codice_12 can be defined as an instance of the codice_11 type class using the codice_4 function from the previous example:\ninstance Functor [] where\nOther examples of codice_11 instances include trees:\n-- a simple binary tree\ndata Tree a = Leaf a | Fork (Tree a) (Tree a)\n\ninstance Functor Tree where \nMapping over a tree yields:\n»> fmap square (Fork (Fork (Leaf 1) (Leaf 2)) (Fork (Leaf 3) (Leaf 4)))\nFork (Fork (Leaf 1) (Leaf 4)) (Fork (Leaf 9) (Leaf 16))\nFor every instance of the codice_11 type class, codice_17 is contractually obliged to obey the functor laws:\n\nfmap id ≡ id -- identity law\nfmap (f . g) ≡ fmap f . fmap g -- composition law\n\nwhere codice_18 denotes function composition in Haskell.\n\nAmong other uses, this allows defining element-wise operations for various kinds of collections.\n\nMoreover, if and are two functors, a natural transformation is a function of polymorphic type formula_2 which respects :\n\nIf the function is defined by parametric polymorphism as in the type definition above, this specification is always satisfied.\n\nThe mathematical basis of maps allow for a number of optimizations. The composition law ensures that both\nlead to the same result; that is, formula_5. However, the second form is more efficient to compute than the first form, because each codice_4 requires rebuilding an entire list from scratch. Therefore, compilers will attempt to transform the first form into the second; this type of optimization is known as \"map fusion\" and is the functional analog of loop fusion.\n\nMap functions can be and often are defined in terms of a fold such as codice_22, which means one can do a \"map-fold fusion\": codice_23 is equivalent to codice_24.\n\nThe implementation of map above on singly linked lists is not tail-recursive, so it may build up a lot of frames on the stack when called with a large list. Many languages alternately provide a \"reverse map\" function, which is equivalent to reversing a mapped list, but is tail-recursive. Here is an implementation which utilizes the fold-left function.\nreverseMap f = foldl (\\ys x -> f x : ys) []\nSince reversing a singly linked list is also tail-recursive, reverse and reverse-map can be composed to perform normal map in a tail-recursive way.\n\nThe map function originated in functional programming languages.\n\nThe language Lisp introduced a map function called codice_25 in 1959, with slightly different versions already appearing in 1958. This is the original definition for codice_25, mapping a function over successive rest lists:\n\nThe function codice_25 is still available in newer Lisps like Common Lisp, though functions like codice_28 or the more generic codice_4 would be preferred.\n\nSquaring the elements of a list using codice_25 would be written in S-expression notation like this:\nUsing the function codice_28, above example would be written like this:\nToday mapping functions are supported (or may be defined) in many procedural, object-oriented, and multi-paradigm languages as well: In C++'s Standard Template Library, it is called codice_32, in C# (3.0)'s LINQ library, it is provided as an extension method called codice_33. Map is also a frequently used operation in high level languages such as ColdFusion Markup Language (CFML), Perl, Python, and Ruby; the operation is called codice_4 in all four of these languages. A codice_35 alias for codice_4 is also provided in Ruby (from Smalltalk). Common Lisp provides a family of map-like functions; the one corresponding to the behavior described here is called codice_28 (codice_38 indicating access using the CAR operation). There are also languages with syntactic constructs providing the same functionality as the map function.\n\nMap is sometimes generalized to accept dyadic (2-argument) functions that can apply a user-supplied function to corresponding elements from two lists. Some languages use special names for this, such as \"map2\" or \"zipWith\". Languages using explicit variadic functions may have versions of map with variable arity to support \"variable-arity\" functions. Map with 2 or more lists encounters the issue of handling when the lists are of different lengths. Various languages differ on this. Some raise an exception. Some stop after the length of the shortest list and ignore extra items on the other lists. Some continue on to the length of the longest list, and for the lists that have already ended, pass some placeholder value to the function indicating no value.\n\nIn languages which support first-class functions, codice_4 may be partially applied to \"lift\" a function that works on only one value to an element-wise equivalent that works on an entire container; for example, codice_40 is a Haskell function which squares each element of a list.\n\n"}
{"id": "266431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266431", "title": "McMahon–Hussein Correspondence", "text": "McMahon–Hussein Correspondence\n\nThe McMahon–Hussein Correspondence was a series of letters exchanged during World War I in which the British government agreed to recognize Arab independence after the war in exchange for the Sharif of Mecca launching the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire. The correspondence had a significant impact on Middle Eastern history during and after the war, and a dispute over Palestine continued thereafter.\n\nThe correspondence comprised ten letters exchanged from July 1915 to March 1916, between Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca, and Lieutenant Colonel Sir Henry McMahon, British High Commissioner to Egypt. The area of Arab independence was defined to be \"in the limits and boundaries proposed by the Sherif of Mecca\", with the exception of \"portions of Syria\" lying to the west of \"the districts of Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo\"; conflicting interpretations of this description was to cause great controversy in subsequent years.\n\nFollowing the publication of the November 1917 Balfour Declaration, which promised a national home for the Jews in Palestine, and the subsequent leaking of the secret 1916 Sykes–Picot Agreement in which Britain and France proposed to split and occupy parts of the territory, the Sharif and other Arab leaders considered the agreements made in the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence had been violated. Of particular dispute, which continues to the present, was the extent of the coastal exclusion. The correspondence \"haunted Anglo-Arab relations\" for many decades thereafter.\n\nIn January 1923 unofficial excerpts were published by Joseph N. M. Jeffries in \"The Daily Mail\" and copies of the various letters circulated in the Arab press. Excerpts were published in the 1937 Peel Commission Report, and the correspondence was first published in full in George Antonius's 1938 \"The Arab Awakening\", then officially in 1939 as \"Cmd. 5957\". In 1964, further documents were declassified.\n\nThe first documented discussions between the British and the Sherifian family took place in February 1914, five months prior to the outbreak of World War I, between Lord Kitchener, then Consul-General in Egypt, and Abdullah bin al-Hussein, the second son of Hussein bin Ali, Sharif of Mecca. Hussein had grown uncomfortable with the newly appointed Ottoman governor in his Hejaz Vilayet, Wehib Pasha, reflecting rising tensions since the 1908 completion of the Hejaz railway which threatened to support increased Ottoman centralization in the region. Discussions eventually culminated in a telegram of 1 November 1914, from Kitchener (recently appointed as Secretary of War) to Hussein wherein Great Britain would, in exchange for support from the Arabs of Hejaz: “...guarantee the independence, rights and privileges of the Sharifate against all external foreign aggression, in particular that of the Ottomans.” The Sharif indicated that he could not break with the Ottomans immediately. However, the entry of the Ottomans on Germany's side in World War I on 11 November 1914 brought about an abrupt shift in British political interests concerning an Arab revolt against the Ottomans. Historian David Charlwood sets out the case for the failure in Gallipoli as leading to an increased desire on the part of the British to negotiate a deal with the Arabs. Lieshout gives further background on the reasoning behind the shift in British thinking.\n\nOn 23 May 1915, Emir Faisal bin Hussein, the third son of Hussein, was presented with the document that became known as the Damascus Protocol. Faisal was in Damascus to resume talks with the Arab secret societies al-Fatat and Al-'Ahd that he had met previously in March/April; in the interim he had visited Istanbul to confront the Grand Vizier with evidence of an Ottoman plot to depose his father. The document declared that the Arabs would revolt in alliance with the United Kingdom, and in return the UK would recognize the Arab independence in an area running from the 37th parallel near the Taurus Mountains on the southern border of Turkey, to be bounded in the east by Persia and the Persian Gulf, in the west by the Mediterranean Sea and in the south by the Arabian Sea.\n\nFollowing deliberations at Ta'if between Hussein and his sons in June 1915, during which Faisal counselled caution, Ali argued against rebellion and Abdullah advocated action and encouraged his father to enter into correspondence with Sir Henry McMahon; over the period 14 July 1915 to 10 March 1916, a total of ten letters, five from each side, were exchanged between Sir Henry McMahon and Sherif Hussein. McMahon was in contact with British Foreign Secretary Edward Grey throughout, and Grey was to authorise and be ultimately responsible for the correspondence.\n\nAn oft-quoted excerpt from a private letter sent by McMahon halfway through the eight-month period of the correspondence, on 4 December 1915, has been used by historians as evidence of possible British duplicity:\n[I do not take] the idea of a future strong united independent Arab State... too seriously... the conditions of Arabia do not and will not for a very long time to come, lend themselves to such a thing... I do not for one moment go to the length of imagining that the present negotiations will go far to shape the future form of Arabia or to either establish our rights or to bind our hands in that country. The situation and its elements are much too nebulous for that. What we have to arrive at now is to tempt the Arab people into the right path, detach them from the enemy and bring them on to our side. This on our part is at present largely a matter of words, and to succeed we must use persuasive terms and abstain from academic haggling over conditions – whether about Baghdad or elsewhere.\n\nThe ten letters are summarised in the table below, from the letters published in full in 1939 as \"Cmd. 5957\":\n\nElie Kedourie says that the October letter was not a treaty, and even if it were considered to be a treaty, Hussein completely failed to fulfill his promises from his 18 February 1916 letter.\nArguing to the contrary, Victor Kattan firstly describes the correspondence as a \"secret treaty\" and references The Secret Treaties of History that includes the correspondence. He further argues that Her Majesty’s Government considered it to be a treaty during the 1919 Paris Peace Conference negotiations with the French over the disposition of Ottoman territory.\n\nMcMahon's promises were seen by the Arabs as a formal agreement between them and the United Kingdom. Lloyd George and Arthur Balfour represented the agreement as a treaty during the post war deliberations of the Council of Four. On this understanding the Arabs established a military force under the command of Hussein's son Faisal which fought, with inspiration from T. E. Lawrence (\"Lawrence of Arabia\"), against the Ottoman Empire during the Arab Revolt. In an intelligence memo written in January 1916 Lawrence described the Arab Revolt as\nbeneficial to us, because it marches with our immediate aims, the break up of the Islamic 'bloc' and the defeat and disruption of the Ottoman Empire, and because \"the states [Sharif Hussein] would set up to succeed the Turks would be … harmless to ourselves\" … The Arabs are even less stable than the Turks. \"If properly handled they would remain in a state of political mosaic, a tissue of small jealous principalities incapable of cohesion\" (emphasis in original).\nThe Arab Revolt began in June 1916, when an Arab army of around 70,000 men moved against Ottoman forces. They participated in the capture of Aqabah and the severing of the Hejaz railway, a vital strategic link through the Arab peninsula which ran from Damascus to Medina. This enabled the Egyptian Expeditionary Force under the command of General Allenby to advance into the Ottoman territories of Palestine and Syria. The British advance culminated in the Battle of Megiddo in September 1918 and the capitulation of the Ottoman Empire on 31 October 1918.\n\nThe Arab revolt is seen by historians as the first organized movement of Arab nationalism. It brought together different Arab groups for the first time with the common goal to fight for independence from the Ottoman Empire. Much of the history of Arabic independence stemmed from the revolt beginning with the kingdom founded by Hussein. After the war was over, the Arab revolt had implications. Groups of people were put into classes based on if they had fought in the revolt or not and what their rank was. In Iraq, a group of Sharifian Officers from the Arab Revolt formed a political party which they were head of. Still to this day the Hashemite kingdom in Jordan is influenced by the actions of Arab leaders in the revolt.\n\nThe Sykes–Picot Agreement between Britain, France and Russia of May 1916 was exposed in December 1917 (made public by the Bolsheviks after the Russian Revolution) showing that the countries were planning to split and occupy parts of the promised Arab country. Hussein was satisfied by two disingenuous telegrams from Sir Reginald Wingate, who had replaced McMahon as High Commissioner of Egypt, assuring him that the British commitments to the Arabs were still valid and that the Sykes–Picot Agreement was not a formal treaty.\nAfter the Sykes-Picot Agreement was published by the Bolshevik Russian government in November 1917, McMahon resigned.\n\nMany sources contend that Sykes-Picot conflicted with the Hussein–McMahon Correspondence of 1915–1916. There were several points of difference, the most obvious being Iraq placed in the British area and less obviously, the idea that British and French advisors would be in control of the area designated as being for an Arab State. Lastly, while the correspondence made no mention of Palestine, Haifa and Acre were to be British and a reduced Palestine area to be internationalised.\n\nIn 1917 Britain issued the Balfour Declaration, promising to support the establishment of a national home for the Jewish people in Palestine. The declaration and the correspondence (as well as the Sykes-Picot agreement) are frequently considered together by historians because of the potential, real or imagined, for incompatibility between them, particularly in regard to the disposition of Palestine. In the words of Professor Albert Hourani, founder of the Middle East Centre at St Antony's College, Oxford: \"The argument about the interpretation of these agreements is one which is impossible to end, because they were intended to bear more than one interpretation.\"\n\nHussein asked for an explanation of the Balfour Declaration and in January 1918 Commander David Hogarth, head of the Arab Bureau in Cairo, was dispatched to Jeddah to deliver a letter written by Sir Mark Sykes on behalf of the British Government to Hussein (now King of Hejaz). The Hogarth message assured Hussein that \"the Arab race shall be given full opportunity of once again forming a nation in the world\" and referred to \"...the freedom of the existing population both economic and political...\". Friedman and Kedourie argue that Hussein accepted the Balfour Declaration while Charles D. Smith argues that both Friedman and Kedourie misrepresent documents and violate scholarly standards in order to reach their conclusions. Hogarth reported that Hussein \"would not accept an independent Jewish State in Palestine, nor was I instructed to warn him that such a state was contemplated by Great Britain\".\n\nIn light of the existing McMahon–Hussein correspondence, but in the wake of the seemingly competing Balfour Declaration for the Zionists, as well as the publication weeks later by the Bolsheviks of the older and previously secret Sykes–Picot Agreement with the Russians and French, seven Syrian notables in Cairo, from the newly formed Syrian Party of Unity (Hizb al-Ittibad as-Suri), issued a memorandum requesting some clarification from the British Government, including a \"guarantee of the ultimate independence of Arabia\". In response, issued on 16 June 1918, the Declaration to the Seven, stated the British policy that the future government of the regions of the Ottoman Empire occupied by Allied forces in World War I should be based on the consent of the governed.\n\nOn 19 October 1918, General Allenby reported to the British Government that he had given Faisal,\n\nofficial assurance that whatever measures might be taken during the period of military administration they were purely provisional and could not be allowed to prejudice the final settlement by the peace conference, at which no doubt the Arabs would have a representative. I added that the instructions to the military governors would preclude their mixing in political affairs, and that I should remove them if I found any of them contravening these orders. I reminded the Amir Faisal that the Allies were in honour bound to endeavour to reach a settlement in accordance with the wishes of the peoples concerned and urged him to place his trust whole-heartedly in their good faith.\nIn the Anglo-French Declaration of 7 November 1918 the two governments stated that:\n\nThe object aimed at by France and the United Kingdom in prosecuting in the East the War let loose by the ambition of Germany is the complete and definite emancipation of the peoples so long oppressed by the Turks and the establishment of national governments and administrations deriving their authority from the initiative and free choice of the indigenous populations.\n\nAccording to civil servant Eyre Crowe who saw the original draft of the Declaration, \"we had issued a definite statement against annexation in order (1) to quiet the Arabs and (2) to prevent the French annexing any part of Syria\". The Declaration is considered by historians to have been misleading at best.\n\nJust one day before the end of the war with the Ottomans, the British Foreign Office discussed T.E. Lawrence’s “Sherifian Plan”, in which Hussein’s sons were proposed as puppet monarchs in Syria and Mesopotamia. Part of the rationale was to satisfy a belief amongst the British public that a debt was owed to the Hashemites under the McMahon correspondence. Of Hussein’s sons, Faisal was Lawrence’s clear favorite, whilst Ali was not considered a strong leader, Zaid was considered to be too young, and Abdullah was considered to be lazy.\n\nThe Paris Peace Conference was held in 1919 between the allies to agree territorial divisions after the war. The correspondence was primarily relevant to the regions which were to become Palestine, Transjordan, Lebanon, Syria, Mesopotamia (Iraq) and the Arabian Peninsula. At the conference, Prince Faisal, speaking on behalf of King Hussein, did not ask for immediate Arab independence. He recommended an Arab State under a British Mandate.\n\nOn 6 January 1920 Prince Faisal initialed an agreement with French Prime Minister Clemenceau which acknowledged 'the right of the Syrians to unite to govern themselves as an independent nation'. A Pan-Syrian Congress, meeting in Damascus, declared an independent state of Syria on 8 March 1920. The new state included portions of Syria, Palestine, and northern Mesopotamia which had been set aside under the Sykes–Picot Agreement for an independent Arab state, or confederation of states. Faisal was declared the head of State as \"King\". The April 1920 San Remo conference was hastily convened in response to Faisal’s declaration. At the conference, the Allied Supreme Council granted the mandates for Palestine and Mesopotamia to Britain, and those for Syria and Lebanon to France. The United Kingdom and France both agreed to recognize the provisional independence of Syria and Mesopotamia. Provisional recognition of Palestinian independence was not mentioned. France had decided to govern Syria directly, and took action to enforce the French Mandate of Syria before the terms had been accepted by the Council of the League of Nations. The French intervened militarily at the Battle of Maysalun in June 1920, deposing the indigenous Arab government, and removed King Faisal from Damascus in August 1920.\n\nIn Palestine, the United Kingdom also appointed a High Commissioner and established their own mandatory regime. The January 1919 Faisal–Weizmann Agreement was a short-lived agreement for Arab–Jewish cooperation on the development of a Jewish homeland in Palestine, which Faisal had mistakenly understood was to be within the Arab Kingdom. Faisal did treat Palestine differently in his presentation to the Peace Conference on 6 February 1919 saying \"Palestine, in consequence of its universal character, be left on one side for the mutual consideration of all parties concerned\". The agreement was never implemented. At the same conference, US Secretary of State Lansing had asked Dr. Weizmann if the Jewish national home meant the establishment of an autonomous Jewish government. The head of the Zionist delegation had replied in the negative.\n\nUnited States Secretary of State Robert Lansing was a member of the American Commission to Negotiate Peace at Paris in 1919. He explained that the system of mandates was simply a device created by the Great Powers to conceal their division of the spoils of war, under the color of international law. If the territories had been ceded directly, the value of the former German and Ottoman territories would have been applied to offset the Allies claims for war reparations. He also explained that Jan Smuts had been the author of the original concept.\n\nMcMahon's letter to Hussein dated 24 October 1915 declared Britain's willingness to recognize the independence of the Arabs subject to certain exemptions. Note that the original correspondence was conducted in both English and Arabic, such that various slightly differing English translations are extant.\n\nThe correspondence was written first in English before being translated to Arabic and vice versa. Who wrote and translated it is unclear. Kedourie and others have assumed that the likeliest candidate for primary author was Ronald Storrs. In his memoirs, Storrs says that correspondence was prepared by Husayn Ruhi and then checked by himself.\n\nThe Arab delegations to the 1939 Conference had objected to certain translations of Arabic to English and the Committee arranged for mutually agreeable translations that would render the English text \"free from actual error\".\n\nThe debate regarding Palestine derived from the fact that it is not explicitly mentioned in the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence, but is included within the boundaries that were initially proposed by Hussein. McMahon accepted the boundaries of Hussein \"subject to modification\", and suggested the modification that \"portions of Syria lying to the west of the districts of Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo cannot be said to be purely Arab and should be excluded.\" The Arabs and British disagreed over whether Palestine was meant to be one of those excluded areas, each side producing supporting arguments for their positions based on fine details of the wording and the historical circumstances of the correspondence.\n\nJonathan Schneer provides an analogy to explain the central dispute over the meaning:\n\nPresume a line extending from the \"districts\" of New York, New Haven, New London, and Boston, excluding territory west from an imaginary coastal kingdom. If by \"districts\" one means \"vicinity\" or \"environs,\" that is one thing with regard to the land excluded, but if one means \"vilayets\" or \"provinces,\" or in the American instance \"states,\" it is another altogether. There are no states of Boston, New London, or New Haven, just as there were no provinces of Hama and Homs, but there is a state of New York, just as there was a \"vilayet\" of Damascus, and territory to the west of New York State is different from territory to the west of the district of New York, presumably New York City and environs, just as territory to the west of the \"vilayet\" of Damascus is different from territory to the west of the district of Damascus, presumably the city of Damascus and its environs.\n\nIn the letter of 24 October, the English version is as follows:\n\n\"..., we accept those limits and boundaries; and in regard to those portions of the territories therein in which Great Britain is free to act without detriment to the interests of her ally France\"\n\nAt a meeting in Whitehall in December 1920 the English and Arabic texts of McMahon’s correspondence with Sharif Husein were compared. As one official, who was present, put it,\n\nIn the Arabic version sent to King Husain this is so translated as to make it appear that Gt Britain is free to act without detriment to France in the whole of the limits mentioned. This passage of course had been our sheet anchor: it enabled us to tell the French that we had reserved their rights, and the Arabs that there were regions in which they wd have eventually to come to terms with the French. It is extremely awkward to have this piece of solid ground cut from under our feet. I think that HMG will probably jump at the opportunity of making a sort of amende by sending Feisal to Mesopotamia. \n\nBarr argues that although McMahon had intended to reserve the French interests, he became a victim of his own cleverness since the translator Ruhi lost the qualifying sense of the sentence in the Arabic version.\n\nIn a Cabinet analysis of diplomatic developments prepared in May 1917, The Hon. William Ormsby-Gore, MP, argued that: \n\nDeclassified British Cabinet Papers include a telegram dated 18 October 1915 from Sir Henry McMahon to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Lord Grey, requesting instructions. McMahon described conversations with a man named Muhammed Sharif al-Faruqi, a member of the Abd party, who advised how the British could satisfy the demands of the Syrian Nationalists for the independence of Arabia. Faroqi had said that the Arabs would fight if the French attempted to occupy the cities of Damascus, Homs, Hama and Aleppo, but he thought they would accept some modification of the North-Western boundaries proposed by the Sherif of Mecca. Based on these conversatuobs, McMahon suggested the language: \"In so far as Britain was free to act without detriment to the interests of her \"present Allies\", Great Britain accepts the principle of the independence of Arabia within limits propounded by the Sherif of Mecca.\" Lord Grey authorized McMahon to pledge the areas requested by the Sherif subject to the reserve for the Allies.\n\nThe Arab position was that they could not refer to Palestine since that lay well to the south of the named places. In particular, the Arabs argued that the \"vilayet\" (province) of Damascus did not exist and that the district (\"sanjak\") of Damascus covered only the area surrounding the city itself and furthermore that Palestine was part of the \"vilayet\" of 'Syria A-Sham', which was not mentioned in the exchange of letters.\n\nSupporters of this interpretation also note that during the war, thousands of proclamations were dropped in all parts of Palestine, carrying a message from the Sharif Hussein on one side and a message from the British Command on the other, to the effect 'that an Anglo-Arab agreement had been arrived at securing the independence of the Arabs.'\n\nThe undated memorandum, GT 6185 (from CAB 24/68/86) of November 1918 was prepared by the renowned British historian Arnold Toynbee in 1918, while working as a temporary Foreign Office clerk in the Political Intelligence Department. Crowe, then The Permanent Under-Secretary, ordered them put in the Foreign Office dossier for the Peace Conference. After arriving in Paris, General Jan Smuts required that the memoranda be summarized and Toynbee produced the document GT 6506 \n(maps illustrating it are GT6506A \n). These two last were circulated as E.C.2201 and considered at a meeting of the Eastern Committee (No.41) of the Cabinet on 5 December 1918 chaired by Curzon (General Jan Smuts, Lord Balfour, Lord Robert Cecil, General Sir Henry Wilson, Chief of the Imperial General Staff, and representatives of the Foreign Office, the India Office, the Admiralty, the War Office, and the Treasury were present. T. E. Lawrence also attended.)\n\nThe Eastern Committee met nine times in November and December to draft a set of resolutions on British policy for the benefit of the negotiators.On 21 October, the War Cabinet asked Smuts to prepare the peace brief in summary form and he asked Erle Richards to carry out this task. Toynbee’s GT6506 and the resolutions of the Eastern Committee were distilled by Richards into a \"P-memo\" (P-49) for use by the Peace Conference delegates.\n\nIn the public arena, Balfour had come under criticism in the House of Commons, when the Liberals and Labor Socialists moved a resolution 'That secret treaties with the allied governments should be revised, since, in their present form, they are inconsistent with the object for which this country entered the war and are, therefore, a barrier to a democratic peace.' In response to growing criticism arising from the seemingly contradictory commitments undertaken by the United Kingdom in the McMahon-Hussein correspondence, the Sykes–Picot Agreement and the Balfour declaration, the 1922 Churchill White Paper, took the position that Palestine had \"always\" been excluded from the Arab area. Although this directly contradicted numerous previous government documents, those documents were not known to the public at the time. As part of preparing this White Paper, Sir John Shuckburgh of the British Colonial Office had exchanged correspondence with McMahon, and reliance was placed on a 1920 memorandum by Major Hubert Young, who had noted that in the original Arabic text, the word translated as \"districts\" in English was \"vilayets\", a vilayet being the largest class of administrative district into which the Ottoman Empire was divided. He concluded that \"district of Damascus\", i.e., \"vilayet of Damascus\", must have referred to the vilayet of which Damascus was the capital, the Vilayet of Syria. This vilayet extended southward to the Gulf of Aqaba, but excluded most of Palestine.\nWhile some British Governments have occasionally stated that the \"intent\" of the McMahon Correspondence was not to promise Palestine to Hussein, they have also occasionally acknowledged the flaws in the legal terminology of the McMahon–Hussein Correspondence that make this position problematic. For example, the weak points of the government's interpretation were acknowledged in a detailed memorandum by the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in 1939.\nA committee established by the British in 1939 to clarify the various arguments observed that many commitments had been made during and after the war – and that all of them would have to be studied together. The Arab representatives submitted a statement to the committee from Sir Michael McDonnell which explained that whatever McMahon had intended to mean was of no legal consequence, since it was his actual statements that constituted the pledge from His Majesty's Government. The Arab representatives also pointed out that McMahon had been acting as an intermediary for the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Lord Grey. Speaking in the House of Lords on 27 March 1923, Lord Grey had made it clear that, for his part, he entertained serious doubts as to the validity of the Churchill White Paper's interpretation of the pledges which he, as Foreign Secretary, had caused to be given to the Sharif Husain in 1915. \nThe Arab representatives suggested that a search for evidence in the files of the Foreign Office might throw light on the Secretary of State's intentions.\n\nA list of interpretations by British politicians and civil servants is below, showing the evolution of the debate between 1916 and 1939:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4660826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660826", "title": "Pacific Bell Directory", "text": "Pacific Bell Directory\n\nYP Western Directory LLC, formerly Pacific Bell Directory, was the advertising and publishing division of the Pacific Telesis Group. PBD Holdings held Pacific Bell Directory under its umbrella, who published directories in both Nevada and California.\n\nPacific Bell Directory was founded in 1984 to take over directory operations formerly provided by Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell themselves. PBD published its telephone directories under the SMART Yellow Pages name. Upon brand integration of its Bell Operating Companies by SBC Communications, it retained the SMART Yellow Pages name for a time following this period. After 2004, however, it ceased using the SMART name.\n\nPacific Bell Directory's listings compilation division was merged with Southwestern Bell Advertising, L.P., forming SBC Advertising, L.P. It was renamed in 2006 to the current AT&T Advertising, L.P. Pacific Bell Directory still exists today to serve as the directory publisher of the AT&T Real Yellow Pages for Pacific Bell and Nevada Bell customers.\n\nIn 2012, Pacific Bell Directory was spun off as part of the AT&T-Cerberus joint venture YP Holdings. It was reincorporated in Delaware as YP Western Directory LLC.\n"}
{"id": "39020511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39020511", "title": "Providence Chapel, Black Country Living Museum", "text": "Providence Chapel, Black Country Living Museum\n\nThe Providence Chapel originally came from Darby End/Hand near Netherton. It was one of the first buildings to be rebuilt on the Black Country Living Museum site. It is an excellent example of a typical Black Country Methodist chapel.\n\nThe Darby family brought a plot of land on Northfield Road and in 1828 work began on building the chapel. The ‘Providence Chapel’ was named after a chapel in Epwarth, Lincolnshire and was affiliated to the Methodist New Connection. The chapel played a central part in the life of the local community for one hundred and fifty years. It was a well-known centre of Christian beliefs and practices with a strong tradition of choral singing. The chapel was also a centre of education and welfare; it helped to alleviate hardship amongst the low paid workers of the Black Country. Trustees of the chapel created clubs like the Darby Hand Doctors Club to provide medical assistance.\n\nIn May 1971 the Sunday school building was destroyed by a fire, the chapel was closed in August 1974. The land was set to be sold and the building demolished. The Black Country Living Museum was invited to save some of the pews. The Museum was in fact interested in saving the whole building and in November 1975 the building was dismantled and the larger parts transferred to the Museum site. There were however problems with certain bricks which could not be used again. As luck would have it, it was possible to dismantle another chapel in Wolverhampton Street, Dudley which dated from 1828-9. This provided the right kind of brick for the chapel. Reconstruction at the Museum began in June 1977 and took two years, the chapel was dedicated in 1979.\n\nThe chapel is a simple, brick-built, rectangle with two small rear extensions. The front is ‘relieved’ by an impressive entrance of rendered brick. The interior is plain and functional with a small lobby underneath a gallery that runs down the sides and rear of the chapel. The side galleries are supported by fluted columns with ornate capitals that divide the interior into aisles. In the middle stands a dominant pulpit where the Minister would be able to see the whole of his congregation. The pulpit is situated below a scrolled banner painted on the wall which proclaims “Worship the Lord in the Beauty of Holiness” .\n"}
{"id": "11805429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11805429", "title": "Rabbit Rampage", "text": "Rabbit Rampage\n\nRabbit Rampage is a 1955 Bugs Bunny animated cartoon, directed by Chuck Jones and produced by Warner Bros. Cartoons, which originally debuted on June 11, 1955. It is a spiritual successor (as well as a sequel) to \"Duck Amuck\", in which Daffy Duck was teased by an off-screen animator, revealed at the end to be Bugs Bunny. In \"Rabbit Rampage\", Bugs is similarly teased by another off-screen animator who is revealed at the end to be Elmer Fudd.\n\nThe cartoon inspired a 1993 video game for the Super NES, \"Bugs Bunny Rabbit Rampage\", which allows the player to control Bugs, following a similar plot. A few clips from this short were shown in a trailer for the \"\" DVD set (seen on the \"\" DVD), but was not included as part of that set. The complete short was released on the \"\" set of the series as a \"bonus\" cartoon.\n\nThe short opens to Bugs Bunny's hole being drawn in the ground; the animator abruptly erases and redraws the hole in the sky. A sleepy Bugs climbs out and falls to the ground. When Bugs realizes who is in charge of the feature, he makes his desire plain to not be a victim of an animator who plans on making him look bad. With that said, Bugs is about to get back into his rabbit hole, but the animator erases it, causing Bugs to jump headfirst into the ground. After Bugs stands up, he restates his desire to not work with the animator, who paints a yellow streak on Bugs' back, implying that Bugs is a coward. Bugs then grabs the brush and breaks it in half.\n\nBugs emphatically states that he will report the animator to Warner Bros. and calls the animator \"a menace to society\", while the animator draws a picket sign (\"I won't work\") in Bugs's left hand. When Bugs sees the sign, he throws it on the ground, off-screen. Bugs asks if the animator is trying to get him fired, before explaining that he has become a good asset to the studio, which gives the animator time to draw another picket sign (\"I refuse to live up to my contract\"). After throwing away the last sign off-screen, Bugs returns, wiping off the yellow paint with a towel. Afterwards, Bugs agrees to work on the picture, but pauses once he sees that the animator drew a hat on his head, prompting Bugs to throw it on the ground, stating that the animator knows he is not supposed to wear a hat. In response, the animator draws a big pink women's hat, and Bugs throws it on the ground, too. This cycle continues with various ridiculous hats and wigs until Bugs gives up. The animator draws a rotated forest, and Bugs tries to get in his hole by climbing down a nearby tree. The animator draws an anvil on Bugs' tail, causing Bugs to fall on a street, later rolling into an empty area.\n\nAngry, Bugs incoherently yells at the animator, which the animator responds to by erasing Bugs's head. When Bugs notices this, he taps one foot impatiently and points at the spot where his head existed. The animator then draws a jack-o'-lantern on Bugs' body. When Bugs realizes this, he demands it be corrected, which the animator supplies by simply adding rabbit ears to the existing head, infuriating Bugs even further. The animator erases the pumpkin head and then draws a tiny version of Bugs' head. Bugs does not realize what has happened until he pulls a carrot out of his pocket, stopping short when he sees that something else is wrong and that the carrot is now huge. He then takes notice of his high-pitched voice. He smacks his hand against his face and realizes that his head is now small. He angrily requests that the animator draw his head back in properly, which he does, except he forgets to apply the ears. Bugs requests the ears to which the animator puts in human ears. Bugs requests that he have long rabbit ears, to which the animator then draws long, droopy rabbit ears, only to revert them back when Bugs snaps at him to not, \"be so danged literal!\"\n\nNow with his ears back, Bugs walks away, only to have his tail erased and then replaced with a horse's tail after Bugs orders that his tail be put back. When Bugs states that a horse's tail belongs on a horse, the animator erases Bugs's body and redraws him as a horse. Bugs, while standing on two hindlegs and eating a carrot, points out to the artist that this misinterpretation will not make his employers happy seeing that his contract clearly says that he is to be drawn as a rabbit, allowing the animator to pretend to comply with what Bugs is telling him by erasing Bugs's horse body and drawing him as a more abstract, simplified rabbit with big cheeks and feet. The abstract version of Bugs warns the animator that this latest bit of teasing can lead to serious consequences for \"both\" of them, which leads the animator to draw him back to normal.\n\nWhen Bugs sardonically asks the animator if he wants to paint him into a grasshopper, the animator takes out a brush and Bugs quickly takes it back. Bugs attempts to make friends with the animator, promising that they could do something popular. In response, the animator draws two clones of Bugs, prompting Bugs to shove the clones out of the picture. As Bugs states that he will not leave the spot until the animator gets the boss, the animator paints Bugs on a railroad track with a train coming through a tunnel behind it. As the train passes by, Bugs leans on a rock and says that he knows one way out and that the animator cannot stop Bugs. He jumps up and pulls down a card with the words \"The End.\"\n\nThe camera pulls back to the animator, who is revealed to be Elmer Fudd, in a cameo appearance, who laughs and states his delight to the audience by saying, \"Weww anyway, I finawwy got even with that scwewy wabbit!\"\n\n\nA similar plot was also included in the episode \"Duck's Reflucks\" of \"Baby Looney Tunes,\" in which Bugs was the victim, Daffy was the animator, and it was made on a computer instead of a pencil and paper. It is done once again with Daffy tormenting Bugs in the \"New Looney Tunes\" episode \"One Carroter in Search of an Artist\", with the technology updated and the pencil and paintbrush replaced by a digital pen.\n\nIn issue #94 of the \"Looney Tunes\" comic, Bugs Bunny gets his back at Daffy Duck by making him the victim, in switching various movie roles, from Duck Twacy in \"Who Killed Daffy Duck\",\" a video game character, and a talk show host, and they always wind up with Daffy starring in \"Moby Dick\" (the story's running gag). After this, Bugs comments, \"Eh, dis guy needs a new agent.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39394760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394760", "title": "S v Van As", "text": "S v Van As\n\nIn S v Van As en 'n Ander, an important case in South African criminal law, the police were locking a suspect in a patrol van, when the young children in his company disappeared. The following morning, after a search in vain the night before, two of them were found dead from exposure. The police were charged with and convicted of culpable homicide. On appeal, however, the court held that, although it would have been reasonable to continue the search and to make further enquiries, it had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the children would have been found by a proper search. It also had not been so proved that the failure to institute such a search was responsible for the children's deaths.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9316942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9316942", "title": "Sathya Sai Baba bibliography", "text": "Sathya Sai Baba bibliography\n\nSathya Sai Speaks. Discourses by Bhagavan Sri Sathya Baba\nSeries of Discourses from 1953 to 2006 (39 Volumes) (translated from Telugu)\n\nSummer Showers · Discourses by Sri Sathya Sai Baba at summer schools (translated into English) \nSummer School Discourses for students on Indian Culture and Spirituality at the Brindavan (Whitefield) ashram.\n\nThe Vahinis, written by Sri Sathya Sai Baba (translated into English)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23156347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23156347", "title": "Shaker Shed", "text": "Shaker Shed\n\nShaker Shed is an exhibit building at Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vermont. It exhibits the Museum's collection of hand-tools and household equipment. \n\nShaker Shed, an unornamented structure, originally served Canterbury Shaker Village, a large Shaker community in Canterbury, New Hampshire. Dubbed “Shakers” because of the frenetic dancing involved in their worship service, their religious sect was formally known as United Society of Believers in the First and Second Appearance of Christ (\"see\" The United Society of Believers in Christ’s Second Appearing). Guided by self-sufficiency, hard work, and celibacy, the Shakers were widely known in the nineteenth century for the quality of their crafts and garden products. They produced unadorned and finely crafted furnishings, seeds, and herbal medicines for the community, which they eventually sold nationwide by wagon and by mail.\n\nBuilt in 1840 as a one-story horse and carriage stand, the five granite pillars, visible between the carriage bays, strengthen the heavy timber framework. The original proprietors enlarged the basic structure twice over a period of thirteen years: in 1850 an addition of one and a half upper stories provided storage space for brooms made and sold by the Canterbury community then, in 1853 the Shakers added shed to the rear of the building to store their farm machinery.\n\nThe Shelburne Museum moved Shaker Shed to the grounds in 1951 to serve as exhibition space for the collection of hand-tools and household equipment. \n\nShelburne Museum’s collection of woodworking tools encompasses a wide variety of hand tools and machinery that craftspeople, such as carpenters, joiners, cabinetmakers, and coopers, used to provide essential goods and services to their local communities. Craftsmen, who worked primarily with readily available, native woods, required specialized tools to create their products. \n\nTo construct buildings, early settlers would fell trees using axes and shape the logs into heavy, squared lumber with adzes. They would then interlock the lumber using mortise and tenon joints, secured with wooden pins, to create a structure’s frame. Unlike iron nails, the wooden pins would expand and contract with the building’s frame. All of the museum’s historic structures, but most clearly the second floor of Horseshoe Barn (see Horseshoe Barn and Annex), reflect mortise and tenon joinery. \n\nThe American building trade became highly specialized: sawyers would work in teams to saw boards and planks from felled timber; carpenters would frame houses, lay floors, and build staircases; joiners focused on finer work, such as fitting joints, framing doors and windows, and preparing paneling, moldings and trim; while cabinetmakers, who employed many of the same skills as joiners, created chests-of-drawers, desks, tables, and other furniture. \n\nPlanes, used to prepare surfaces, fit joints, and cut particular decorative shapes for moldings and trim, remained the most specialized tool that woodworkers used. Craftsmen developed dozens of different planes for precise use. A typical joiner or cabinetmaker’s tool chest contained twenty to fifty planes.\n\nCoopering, or barrel making, remained an important occupation through the nineteenth century. Using froes to split barrel staves and curved “sun” planes to shape the ends of mounted staves, coopers produced containers of all sizes. Ranging from small water and liquor kegs to 206-gallon hogsheads, their barrels stored goods including tobacco, whale oil, whiskey, molasses, flour, apples, sugar, and hardware. Household appliances such as water tubs, sap buckets, butter churns, milk pails, and drinking or ladling mugs called piggins, reflected the extensive reach of a coopers’ trade. The United States 1850 census recorded forty-three thousand practicing coopers, but by the late nineteenth century, the introduction of metal drums and other machine-made storage and shipping containers greatly diminished the demand for wooden cooperage so that today the craft is almost nonexistent. \n\nThe inaccessibility of processed metals in early American meant that people incorporated wood into all aspects of construction including plumbing. Early American underground water pipes were made of cedar or pine logs that had been cut while still green, hollowed out with special augers and fitted together. They linked supply sources such as springs or reservoirs with homes and businesses. These pump logs were virtually indestructible so that some were still used in Philadelphia as late as the 1950s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10838629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10838629", "title": "Shopping.com", "text": "Shopping.com\n\nShopping.com is a price comparison service owned by eBay and operates websites in USA, United Kingdom, France, Germany and Australia. Shopping.com started out with the name DealTime.com which still operates as a related, but otherwise separate website.\n\nShopping.com began as Papricom (DealTime.com), which was founded in Israel in 1998 by Dr. Nahum Sharfman and Amir Ashkenazi, the original business model was to create a downloadable client that would monitor changes in prices of products the user seeks to buy over time, notifying the user when the product price reached a predetermined level (hence the site's original name, DealTime). Originally targeting American consumers, the basic concept was quickly modified from a downloadable client to a purely web-based service, a concept the company has kept ever since.\n\nAfter recruiting a management team of high-ranking executives from other industries, DealTime underwent rapid expansion in 2000 including formation of a major alliance with media giant Bertelsmann, adding British, German, Spanish and Japanese versions of its original American-targeted website, and acquiring Digital Jones, a product advisory website. However, during 2000 and 2001 it became apparent that the operation was losing a significant amount of money and that massive changes were needed. Three rounds of layoffs done in 2001 and 2002 halved the workforce to some 150; the Japanese and German websites were scrapped in late 2001, as well as plans for an early IPO, and Digital Jones was shelved. Also, a growing percentage of the merchants being advertised on DealTime's website were forced to start paying for this service or become de-listed; some lucrative product categories became paying-merchants-only. In 2002, a new bidding system was introduced, in which the highest-bidding merchant got higher placement on the default price comparison results page (consumers could always sort by price or rating). All these changes enabled the company to become profitable for the first time in 2003.\n\nUnder the leadership of its CEO, Daniel T. Ciporin, in April 2003, DealTime acquired the California-based consumer product review site Epinions.com. In September 2003, the merged sites relaunched under the Shopping.com brand and web address which it had purchased from Alta Vista. The new name, as well as some offline (TV) advertisement and large online advertisement with partners such as Google and other portals, enabled Shopping.com to become the 3rd most-visited consumer website, following eBay and Amazon, for several months during 2004, and continuously in the top-10. Although Shopping.com remained an Israeli corporation with R&D facilities in Netanya, Israel, it had a strong US presence with its corporate headquarters first in New York City (1998–2003) and later in Brisbane, California.\n\nThe company went finally public in October 2004, and was acquired by eBay in June 2005 for $21 per share in cash, or total consideration of approximately $634 million. It is currently a semi-autonomous division within eBay and still runs the www.shopping.com website. eBay and Shopping.com functionalities are slowly being merged, for example eBay's PayPal payment system in SDC's offering to its advertising merchants. Shopping.com accepts CPC bidding. Merchants must pay a minimum of $100.\n\nSince 2005, the company has added French, Australian and once again a German version of its website.\n\nIn April 2009, 61-year-old Nahum Sharfman was killed, along with his wife Nava, when their private plane crashed in Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "18965933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18965933", "title": "The Christopher House", "text": "The Christopher House\n\nThe Christopher House is an outstanding example of a provincial pre-Revolutionary War vernacular farmhouse of stone masonry. It is associated with two of the oldest Staten Island families. It was also used as a meeting place during the American Revolution, while being the residence of Joseph Christopher, a member of the Richmond County Committee of Safety from 1775-1776. It was moved to Historic Richmond Town the Autumn of 1969 and restored for museum presentation from 1975-1977.\n\nAccording to reporting by the Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1967, the original section was built in 1756, and a section twice that size believed to be added about 1764. Current Historic Richmond Town institutional belief, based on extensive research by Loring McMillen places those dates earlier to circa 1720 for the original portion, with the addition from circa 1730.\n\nThe structure is built in the Colonial salt-box tradition and was originally situated in the section of Staten Island now called Willowbrook. While there, it then stood on the brink of the treacherous marshes that covered a great portion of the Island, known as the great swamp.\nThe building consists of two sections with 22-inch thick native fieldstone walls with wood above. It is one and one-half stories tall with a low cellar and gable roof\n\nThe structure was originally located, roughly, at the street address of 819 Willowbrook Road, Staten Island. The proximity of the homestead on its original property to the Groad Swamp of those days offered opportunities for escape, in case of surprise, for those who attended the clandestine meetings held in this house during the Revolutionary War.\n\nCurrent interpretive use of this building at Historic Richmond Town demonstrates daily farm life from the mid-to late-18th century. The house is furnished primarily for cooking demonstrations at this time, making use of a restored jamb less fireplace.\n\nJohn Christopher (believed to have built the house but may not have been a resident), Farmer?\nCol. Thomas Dongan, (grand-nephew of Governor Thomas Dongan, (1745-1757) \nNelly Haughwout (by 1761)\nJoseph Christopher Sr. (by 24 May 1764)\nJoseph Christopher Jr. (23 April 1825), Farmer/Cooper-Woodworker\nDavid Decker (4 September 1827)\nThomas Standring (19 October 1852 – 15 February 1858), Hardware & Comb Manufacturer\nSamuel Stansring (before 1962), Hardware & Comb Manufacturer\nMrs. Eugene C. Egan (before 1962)\nStaten Island Historical Society (17 May 1969)\n\nOn September 13, 1966, the Landmarks Preservation Commission held a public hearing on the proposed designation as a Landmark of the Christopher House and the proposed designation of the related Landmark Site. The hearing had been duly advertised in accordance with the provisions of the law. Two witnesses spoke in favor of designation, there were no speakers in opposition. The owner of the property indicated to the Commission that he is in favor of the proposed designation. \nThe building was granted NYC Landmark status on 13th, December 1967.\n\nIn early 1969 the History Committee sent a letter to Senator John Marchi asking for support to preserve the Christopher House. There was also a petition presented showing community support for the preservation of the house.\n\nThe community signed the petition, stating:\n\nIt appears that the Christopher House was featured in the CollegeHumor's video entitled \"Grammar Nazis.\" This location was used to reenact a susceptible town under the sphere of Hitler's Reich.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21761621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21761621", "title": "The Concise Dictionary of National Biography", "text": "The Concise Dictionary of National Biography\n\nThe Concise Dictionary of National Biography: From Earliest Times to 1985 is a dictionary of biographies of people from the United Kingdom. It was published in three volumes by Oxford University Press in 1992. The dictionary provides summaries of all the biographies in \"The Dictionary of National Biography\", presented in alphabetical order by last name.\n\n\n"}
