{"id": "7341972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7341972", "title": "Academic grading in Hong Kong", "text": "Academic grading in Hong Kong\n\nThis article is about the grading that is used in Hong Kong.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the system of grade point average (GPA) is used in universities.\n\nSome universities don't include A+ in the grades, or set the grade point of A+ to be 4.00, so that the maximum GPA attainable is 4.00 instead of 4.30. Some universities use a 12-point based system called \"CGA\" instead. Some universities such as The Hong Kong Polytechnic University do not include minus grades (i.e., no A-, B-, C-) and the grade point of A+, B+, C+, D+ is 4.5, 3.5, 2.5, 1.5 respectively.\n\n\nResults of the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (HKCEE) and Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (HKALE) are expressed in terms of six grades A to F, of which grade A is the highest and F the lowest. Results below grade F are designated as unclassified (UNCL). HKCEE and HKALE will be completely replaced by the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination in 2013. The last HKCEE were held in 2012 and the last HKALE will be held in 2013 for private candidates only.\n\n\nNote:\n\nFor Category A subjects in HKDSE, results will be expressed in terms of five levels, of which level 5 is the highest and level 1 the lowest. Distinction levels 5** and 5* (pronounced as \"Five-Double-Star\" and \"Five-Star\") will be awarded to the two best-performing groups of candidates attaining Level 5.\n"}
{"id": "5999779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5999779", "title": "Albert Dorne", "text": "Albert Dorne\n\nAlbert Dorne (February 7, 1906 - December 15, 1965) was an American Illustrator and entrepreneur, and was co-founder of correspondence schools for aspiring artists, photographers, and writers. Dorne was co-founder of the Code of Ethics and Fair Practices of the Profession of Commercial Art and Illustration.\n\nDorne was born in the slums of New York City's East Side, and had a troubled childhood plagued with tuberculosis and heart problems. He would cut classes to study art in the museums, eventually quitting school altogether to support his family. After numerous jobs such as managing a newsstand and acting as an office boy, as well as a short professional boxing career, Dorne began working in advertising.\n\nHe apprenticed as a letterer with then-letterer and future prominent illustrator Saul Tepper before beginning a five-year stint at the commercial art studio of Alexander Rice. He left the studio to begin a freelance career and soon his illustrations started appearing in such magazines as \"Life\", \"Collier's\", and \"The Saturday Evening Post\", and by 1943 was featured on the cover of \"American Artist\" magazine, recognized as \"one of the best and highest paid in the field of advertising illustration.\" He frequently worked for the Johnstone and Cushing advertising agency.\n\nDorne was president of the New York Society of Illustrators in 1947–48. In 1948 he conceived the idea of a correspondence school for art, and recruited eleven other well-known artists and illustrators affiliated with the Society of Illustrators, including Norman Rockwell, to found the Famous Artists School. In 1961 he helped found the Famous Photographers School and the Famous Writers School, based on similar principles. All three schools were based in Westport, Connecticut, and by 1963 boasted more than 50,000 students in the U.S. and 54 foreign countries, with a gross income of $10 million.\n\nDorne influenced the work of artists including John Buscema Al Avison, and Arthur Suydam.\n\nIn 1956, Dorne donated his pictorial resource file of over 500,000 items to the Westport Public Library. The collection is still in use today. In 1964, the University of Bridgeport Department of Art endowed the Albert Dorne Professorship in Drawing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47422296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47422296", "title": "Aluu Four lynching", "text": "Aluu Four lynching\n\nThe Aluu Four lynching was a necklace lynching that involved four young men, Ugonna Obuzor, Toku Lloyd, Chiadika Biringa, and Tekena Elkanah, all students of the University of Port Harcourt. They were all lynched after they were falsely accused of theft in Aluu, a community in Ikwerre local government area, Rivers State, Nigeria on 5 October 2012.\n\nChiadika Biringa, Lloyd Toku Mike, Tekena Erikena and Ugonna Obuzor were all friends, first sons of their parents, and students of University of Port Harcourt. The four students were also occasional roommates. Ugonna sometimes spent the night with Tekena who lived outside the campus. He moved in because his residence on campus was broken into multiple times. Ugonna had a debtor called Bright who was owing him some undisclosed amount of money which bothered him much. In time, he managed to find out his particular location. He sought the help of his cousin Lloyd,childhood and longtime friend Tekena and roommate Chiadika.Together, four of them ventured into a journey of no return.The four students finally arrived in the house of the debtor and in the cause of settling the debt, a misunderstanding ensued which turned sour and eventually turned into a fight.\n\nThe debtor started screaming, claiming that the men were there to steal laptops and mobile phones. The vigilante group was alerted with the impression that the students were the criminals disturbing the community. The four men were chased through the streets by the stick and stone-wielding vigilantes, stripped naked, beaten and tortured until they were almost unconscious. Afterwards, in the presence of a crowd, they were dragged through mud, had concrete slabs dropped on their heads and car tyres filled with petrol wrapped around their necks in order to burn them.\n\nA sister of Tekena was nearby and discovered that her brother was about to be killed via \"jungle justice.\" She tried to intervene and rescue him with his friends by screaming at the top of her voice at the mob and reiterating their innocence but she was overpowered by the size of the mob. People from the mob told her to flee. In a last attempt to save her brother's life, she decided to contact other family members and the police, but the men had been killed by the time the required assistance was sought. The murders were filmed with a mobile phone and uploaded on the internet.\n\nThe video went viral, with most viewers condemning the crime. Condolences were sent to the families of the victims. The Senate condemned the jungle justice that members of the community carried out where the four students were hurriedly murdered without trial in the presence of a crowd. Students of the University protested the murders and went on rampage by rioting and destroying properties in the community where the students had been lynched.\n\nThe lynching was widely viewed in Nigeria and the rest of the world. The crime further exposed the \"jungle justice\" or \"mob justice\"' which was still prevalent in Nigeria, as well as exposed some loopholes in Nigeria's law enforcement system. Several people were arrested in connection with the crime.\n"}
{"id": "24123710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24123710", "title": "American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese", "text": "American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese\n\nThe American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese is a language-specific professional association in the United States that was founded on December 29, 1917 in New York City as the American Association of Teachers of Spanish.\nThe name was changed to the present one when Portuguese was added to the association's mission in 1944.\n\nThe organization is composed of more than 8,800 members in 60 chapters across the United States and Canada.\n\nThe mission statement of the association is to:\n\npromote ... the study and teaching of Hispanic, Luso-Brazilian, and other related languages, literatures, and cultures at all educational levels. Through an exchange of pedagogical and scholarly information, the AATSP encourages heritage and second-language study and supports projects to that end.\n\nThe Association was founded in 1917 largely through the efforts of Lawrence A. Wilkins, its first President, who worked with a number of individuals teaching in colleges, universities, and high schools along the Eastern Seaboard. Aurelio M. Espinosa, later the first editor of Hispania, helped Wilkins to unite the previously existing east and west coast Spanish teachers' initiatives to form the national association. The AATSP was the first association in the United States devoted to the study of a specific modern foreign language, pre-dating the AATI (1923), the AATF (French) (1927), and the AATG (German) (1927).\n\nMembership has always been open to teachers of Spanish and Portuguese and all others interested in the languages. There are Honorary Members and Fellows who represent, respectively, the world of Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian scholarship and the world of letters.\n\nThe governing body of AATSP is an Executive Council (EC) which consists of an executive director, a president, a president-elect, and the past president. There is an elected representative from the college or university and high school levels. In addition, there is a rotating body of elected members every three years of three members, one from a community college, one from Foreign Language in the Elementary Schools (FLES), and one from Portuguese.\n\nThe Executive Council meets once a year face-to-face at the annual conference, through numerous conference calls, and regularly through online meetings via email. There is a business meeting at the annual conference through which all members can express their concerns to the EC. There are also standing committees for Portuguese, FLES, award selection, scholarship selection, and nominations.\n\nAn annual conference has been held each year since 1917 with the exception of two years during World War II when government restrictions prohibited such gatherings. Each annual conference consists of a wide range of sessions, numerous workshops for members, and many social activities designed to augment the camaraderie of members. In the 21st century, meetings have been held in Albuquerque, San José, Costa Rica, San Diego, Salamanca, Spain, New York City, Chicago, Rio de Janeiro, and Guadalajara, Mexico.\n\nThe AATSP offers employment opportunity information to its members by way of an online career center. This interactive tool allows job seekers to search for jobs based on their personal criteria and allows employers from school districts, colleges, and universities to announce job openings.\n\nHispania is the official journal of the AATSP. From its inception, it was envisioned as a scholarly publication and also as a source of practical advice for classroom teachers. It features articles on literature, language, theoretical and applied linguistics, cultural studies, and book and media reviews. It has steadily grown in prestige and has had 12 editors through the years; the present editor is Dr. Sheri Spaine Long of University of Alabama at Birmingham. Publications are in March, June, September, and December. Hispania is a member of the Council of Editors of Learned Journals.\n\nEnlace is the AATSP's online newsletter that contains timely articles of interest to members. The Portuguese Newsletter features items of interest about the Luso-Brazilian world. They are both published in the spring and fall.\n\nThere are three categories of scholarships AATSP offers. The first is a \"First-Time-Attendee\" travel stipend for the annual conference. There are ten $500 stipends offered which are distributed to faculty members and to graduate students. Applicants must be a member of AATSP at the time of application, a teacher of Spanish and/or Portuguese K-16, and a first time attendee at an AATSP annual meeting.\n\nThere are also scholarships for study abroad programs in Costa Rica, Mexico, and the Andean countries of Bolivia, Ecuador, and Peru. The study abroad programs provide scholarships and the AATSP supplements the scholarship with a $750 travel stipend. Applicants must be an AATSP member for three consecutive years, a full-time Spanish teacher for three years, and continue to teach Spanish for an academic year following the scholarship experience.\n\nThe Robert G. Mead, Jr. Travel and Study/Research Stipend is a $1,000.00 travel stipend made possible through the contributions of friends of Professor Mead and his widow Harriet. Applicants must travel and conduct research in a Luso-Hispanic country and be a student member of AATSP for two years or a regular member for three years.\n\nThe AATSP accepts nominations from its members for individuals who have done outstanding work in the promotion of foreign language education in Spanish and Portuguese. Awards include Outstanding Teacher of the Year, Outstanding Service, Chapter Incentive, Robert G. Mead, Jr. Distinguished Leadership, Maria Isabel Abreu, and ISE Language Matters. More information is available on the official AATSP website.\n\nEach year the AATSP sponsors a poster contest for all students enrolled in Spanish or Portuguese in grades K-8 of AATSP members in good standing. It is an excellent opportunity to discuss language learning with younger learners. The contest is a great classroom activity and program advocacy tool providing student recognition.\n\nThe Sociedad Honoraria Hispánica (SHH) was established in 1952 as a service-oriented honors society for select students of Spanish. It has long published an official newsletter for its sponsors, \"¡Albricias!\", which includes poetry, short pieces, illustrations, and photography created by the students themselves. There are more than 1800 chapters and the number of initiates grows each year. A club for elementary and middle school students, the Sociedad Hispánica de Amistad (SHA), was formed in 2001. Judith Park and Ursula Sihocky direct the SHH and Pamela Wink directs the SHA.\n\nThe National Spanish Examinations (NSE) are web-based, standardized assessment tools for Grades 6–-12, given voluntarily by over 3400 teachers throughout the United States to measure proficiency and achievement of students who are studying Spanish as a second language.\n\nThe National Portuguese Examinations (NPE) are communicative proficiency-based tools that engage the students in reading, speaking, and writing. They are intended for High School students of Portuguese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539296", "title": "Andrea Palladio", "text": "Andrea Palladio\n\nAndrea Palladio (; 30 November 1508 – 19 August 1580) was an Italian architect active in the Venetian Republic. Palladio, influenced by Roman and Greek architecture, primarily by Vitruvius, is widely considered to be one of the most influential individuals in the history of architecture. All of his buildings are located in what was the Venetian Republic, but his teachings, summarized in the architectural treatise, \"The Four Books of Architecture\", gained him wide recognition. The city of Vicenza, with its twenty-three buildings designed by Palladio, and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto are listed together as UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nPalladio was born on 30 November 1508 in Padua and was given the name, Andrea Di Pietro della Gondola. His father, Pietro, called \"Della Gondola\", was a miller. From early on, Andrea Palladio was introduced into the work of building. In Padua he gained his first experiences as a stonecutter in the sculpture workshop of Bartolomeo Cavazza da Sossano, who was the sculptor responsible for the altar in the Church of Santa Maria dei Carmini in Padua. Cavazza da Sossano is said to have imposed particularly hard working conditions. At the age of sixteen he moved to Vicenza where he would reside for most of his life. Here he became an assistant in the Pedemuro studio, a leading workshop of stonecutters and masons. He joined a guild of stonemasons and bricklayers. He was employed as a stonemason to make monuments and decorative sculptures. These sculptures reflected the Mannerist style of the architect Michele Sanmicheli.\n\nPerhaps the key moment that sparked Palladio's career was being employed by the Humanist poet and scholar, Gian Giorgio Trissino, from 1538 to 1539. While Trissino was reconstructing the Villa Cricoli, he took interest in Palladio's work. Trissino was heavily influenced by the studies of Vitruvius, who later influenced Palladio's own ideals and attitudes toward classical architecture. As the leading intellectual in Vicenza, Trissino stimulated the young man to appreciate the arts, sciences, and Classical literature and he granted him the opportunity to study Ancient architecture in Rome. It was also Trissino who gave him the name by which he became known, Palladio, an allusion to the Greek goddess of wisdom Pallas Athene and to a character of a play by Trissino. Indeed, the word Palladio means \"Wise one\". After Trissino's death in 1550, Palladio benefited from the patronage of the Barbaro brothers, Cardinal Daniele Barbaro, who encouraged his studies of classical architecture and brought him to Rome in 1554, and his younger brother Marcantonio Barbaro. The powerful Barbaros introduced Palladio to Venice, where he finally became \"Proto della Serenissima\" (chief architect of the Republic of Venice) after Jacopo Sansovino. In addition to the Barbaros, the Corner, Foscari, and Pisani families supported Palladio's career.\n\nAndrea Palladio began to develop his own architectural style around 1541. The Palladian style, named after him, adhered to classical Roman principles he rediscovered, applied, and explained in his works.\n\nAndrea Palladio is known to be one of the most influential architects in Western architecture. His architectural works have \"been valued for centuries as the quintessence of High Renaissance calm and harmony\" (Watkin, D., \"A History of Western Architecture\"). He designed many palaces, villas, and churches, but Palladio's reputation, initially, and after his death, has been founded on his skill as a designer of villas. The palladian villas are located mainly in the province of Vicenza, while the \"palazzi\" are concentrated in the city of Vicenza and the churches in Venice. A number of his works are now protected as part of the World Heritage Site \"City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto\". Other buildings by Palladio are to be found within the \"Venice and its Lagoon\" World Heritage Site.\n\nPalladio's first major public project began when his designs for building the loggias for the town hall, known as the Basilica Palladiana, were approved in 1548. He proposed an addition of two-storey stone buttresses reflecting the Gothic style of the existing hall while using classical proportions. The construction was completed in 1617 after Palladio's death.\n\nAside from Palladio's designs, his publications contributed to \"Palladianism\". During the second half of his life, Palladio published many books, above all, \"I Quattro Libri dell'Architettura\" (\"The four books of architecture\", Venice, 1570). Palladio is most known for his designs of villas and palaces as well as his books.\n\nThe precise circumstances of his death are unknown. Palladio died in 1580, retold in tradition, in Maser, near Treviso, and was buried in the church of Santa Corona in Vicenza; since the nineteenth century his tomb has been located in the \"Cimitero Maggiore\" of Vicenza.\n\nPalladio's architecture was not dependent on expensive materials, which must have been an advantage to his more financially pressed clients. Many of his buildings are of brick covered with stucco. Stuccoed brickwork was always used in his villa designs in order to portray his interpretations of the Roman villa typology.\n\nIn the later part of his career, Palladio was chosen by powerful members of Venetian society for numerous important commissions. His success as an architect is based not only on the beauty of his work, but also for its harmony with the culture of his time. His success and influence came from the integration of extraordinary aesthetic quality with expressive characteristics that resonated with his client's social aspirations. His buildings served to communicate, visually, their place in the social order of their culture. This powerful integration of beauty and the physical representation of social meanings is apparent in three major building types: the urban palazzo, the agricultural villa, and the church.\n\nRelative to his trips to Rome, Palladio developed three main palace types by 1556. In 1550, the Palazzo Chiericati was completed. The proportions for the building were based on musical ratios for adjacent rooms. The building was centralized by a tripartite division of a series of columns or colonnades. In 1552, the Palazzo Iseppo Porto located in Vicenza was rebuilt incorporating the Roman Renaissance element for façades. A colonnade of Corinthian columns surrounded a main court. The Palazzo Antonini in Udine, constructed in 1556, had a centralized hall with four columns and service spaces placed relatively toward one side. He uses styles of incorporating the six columns, supported by pediments, into the walls as part of the façade. This technique had been applied in his villa designs as well. Palladio experimented with the plan of the Palazzo Iseppo Porto by incorporating it into the Palazzo Thiene. It was an earlier project from 1545 to 1550 and remained uncompleted due to elaborate elevations in his designs. He used Mannerist elements such as stucco surface reliefs and large columns, often extending two stories high.\n\nIn his urban structures he developed a new improved version of the typical early Renaissance palazzo (exemplified by the Palazzo Strozzi). Adapting a new urban palazzo type created by Bramante in the House of Raphael, Palladio found a powerful expression of the importance of the owner and his social position. The main living quarters of the owner on the second level were clearly distinguished in importance by use of a pedimented classical portico, centered and raised above the subsidiary and utilitarian ground level (illustrated in the Palazzo Porto and the Palazzo Valmarana). The tallness of the portico was achieved by incorporating the owner's sleeping quarters on the third level, within a giant two-story classical colonnade, a motif adapted from Michelangelo's Capitoline buildings in Rome. The elevated main floor level became known as the \"piano nobile\", and is still referred to as the \"first floor\" in Europe.\nPalladio also established an influential new building format for the agricultural villas of the Venetian aristocracy. Palladio's approach to his villa designs was not relative to his experience in Rome. His designs were based on practicality and employed few reliefs. He consolidated the various stand-alone farm outbuildings into a single impressive structure, arranged as a highly organized whole, dominated by a strong center and symmetrical side wings, as illustrated at Villa Barbaro. In the project of the Villa Barbaro, Palladio most likely was also engaged in the interior decoration. Alongside the painter Paolo Veronese, he invented the complex and sophisticated illusionistic landscape paintings that cover the walls of various rooms.\nThe Villa Rotonda of 1552, outside Vicenza, was constructed as a summer house with views from all four sides. The plan has centralized circular halls with wings and porticos expanding on all four sides. Palladio began to implement the classical temple front into his design of façades for villas. He felt that to make an entry appear grand, the Roman temple front would be the most suitable style. The Palladian villa configuration often consists of a centralized block raised on an elevated podium, accessed by grand steps, and flanked by lower service wings, as at Villa Foscari and Villa Badoer. This format, with the quarters of the owners at the elevated center of their own world, found resonance as a prototype for Italian villas and later for the country estates of the British nobility (such as Lord Burlington's Chiswick House, Vanbrugh's Blenheim, Walpole's Houghton Hall, and Adam's Kedleston Hall and Paxton House in Scotland). His villas were used by a capitalist gentry who developed an interest in agriculture and land. The configuration was a perfect architectural expression of their worldview, clearly expressing their perceived position in the social order of the times. His influence was extended worldwide into the British colonies. Palladio developed his own prototype for the plan of the villas that was flexible to moderate in scale and function. The Palladian villa format was easily adapted for a democratic worldview, as may be seen at Thomas Jefferson's Monticello and his arrangement for the University of Virginia. It also may be seen applied as recently as 1940 in Pope's National Gallery in Washington D.C., where the public entry to the world of high culture occupies the exalted center position. The rustication of exposed basement walls of Victorian residences is a late remnant of the Palladian format, clearly expressed as a podium for the main living space for the family.\n\nSimilarly, Palladio created a new configuration for the design of Catholic churches that established two interlocking architectural orders, each clearly articulated, yet delineating a hierarchy of a larger order overriding a lesser order. This idea was in direct coincidence with the rising acceptance of the theological ideas of St. Thomas Aquinas, who postulated the notion of two worlds existing simultaneously: the divine world of faith, and the earthly world of humans. Palladio created an architecture which made a visual statement communicating the idea of two superimposed systems, as illustrated at San Francesco della Vigna. In a time when religious dominance in Western culture was threatened by the rising power of science and secular humanists, this architecture found great favor with the Catholic Church as a clear statement of the proper relationship of the earthly and the spiritual worlds.\n\nAlthough his buildings are all in a relatively small part of Italy, Palladio's influence was far-reaching. One factor in the spread of his influence was the publication in 1570 of his architectural treatise, \"I Quattro Libri dell'Architettura\" (The Four Books of Architecture), which set out rules others could follow. The first book includes studies of decorative styles, classical orders, and materials. The second book included Palladio's town and country house designs and classical reconstructions. The third book has bridge and basilica designs, city planning designs, and classical halls. The fourth book included information on the reconstruction of ancient Roman temples. Before this landmark publication, architectural drawings by Palladio had appeared in print as illustrations to Daniele Barbaro's \"Commentary\" on Vitruvius.\n\nInterest in his style was renewed in later generations and became fashionable throughout Europe, for example in parts of the Loire Valley of France. In Britain, Inigo Jones, Elizabeth Wilbraham, and Christopher Wren embraced the Palladian style. In his Italian Journey, Johann von Goethe describes Palladio as a genius, commending his unfinished Convent of Saint Maria della Carita as the most perfect existing work of architecture. Another admirer was the architect, Richard Boyle, 4th Earl of Cork, also known as Lord Burlington, who, with William Kent, designed Chiswick House. The influence of Palladio even spread to America. Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Dawes much admired that style of architecture, and the United States Capitol building is an example of a slightly evolved version of Palladio's works. The One Hundred Eleventh Congress of the United States of America called him the \"Father of American Architecture\" (Congressional Resolution no. 259 of 6 December 2010). Exponents of Palladianism include the eighteenth century Venetian architect, Giacomo Leoni, who published an authoritative four-volume work on Palladio and his architectural concepts.\n\nMore than 330 of Palladio's original drawings and sketches still survive in the collections of the Royal Institute of British Architects, most of which originally were owned by Inigo Jones. Jones collected a significant number of these on his Grand Tour of 1613–1614, while some were a gift from Henry Wotton.\n\nThe Center for Palladian Studies in America, Inc., a nonprofit membership organization, was founded in 1979 to research and promote understanding of Palladio's influence in the architecture of the United States.\n\nIn 2010, the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C. created an exhibition dedicated solely to Palladio and his legacy. The exhibition, titled \"Palladio and His Legacy: A Transatlantic Journey\", was open to the public until January 2011.\n\nNote: the chronology\nis generally referred to the project of the works, not to the construction.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12251690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12251690", "title": "Arturo Buzzi-Peccia", "text": "Arturo Buzzi-Peccia\n\nArturo Buzzi-Peccia (13 October 1854 – 29 August 1943) was an Italian singing instructor and song composer.\n\nBuzzi-Peccia was born 13 October 1854 in Milan, Italy, to Antonio and Clotilde Peccia. In 1868, he was accepted at the Milan Conservatory where he studied composition under Antonio Bazzini. In the late 1870s, he went to Paris to continue his studies under Massenet and Saint-Saëns. He returned to Italy, first to Milan and eventually taking a position in Turin as a voice teacher.\n\nHe began to write music while still in school, and composed three works to secure his diploma from the Milan Conservatory in 1875. In 1886 his ' was performed at La Scala. His symphonic poem ' received critical acclaim when it premiered at La Scala in 1888. The 1897 premiere in Turin of Buzzi-Peccia's only opera, \"\", was conducted by Arturo Toscanini. One of his best-known works is \"Lolita: Serenata spagnola\" (1892), recorded by many singers over the years including Enrico Caruso, Titta Ruffo, and Franco Corelli. His was sung by Joseph Schmidt in the 1934 film \"My Song Goes Round the World\". Most of his songs were written in Italian, but he also wrote lyrics in French and English. His most famous novelty song, (Song of the Cigarette), was written in French.\n\nHe came to the United States in 1898 to teach voice at the Chicago Musical College with references from such notables as Giuseppe Verdi and Arrigo Boito. Two years later Buzzi-Peccia moved to New York to teach at the Metropolitan College of Music. He was the first voice teacher of Alma Gluck, and also of Sophie Braslau. Another pupil of Buzzi-Peccia was the poet Dorothy Caruso, wife of Enrico Caruso.\n\nIn addition to Caruso, many artists recorded Buzzi-Peccia's songs, among them Beniamino Gigli, Carlo Bergonzi, Mario Lanza, Luciano Pavarotti, Giuseppe Di Stefano, and Roberto Alagna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49292744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49292744", "title": "Astronomy education", "text": "Astronomy education\n\nAstronomy education or astronomy education research (AER) refers both to the methods currently used to teach astronomy and to an area of pedagogical research that seeks to improve those methods. While some parts of astronomy education overlap with physics education, astronomy education has its own arenas, practitioners, journals, and research. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29983514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29983514", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad (BISE Faisalabad) is an examining board for intermediate (higher secondary) and secondary (high school) education in Faisalabad Division.\n\nBISE Faisalabad was established in 1988. The current jurisdiction of the board was first under the supervision of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha.\nIts main building is now on the main jhang road near the Faisalabad International Airport.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Faisalabad Board includes Faisalabad Division which includes the following districts:\n\n\nBoard of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matric (9th and 10th) class exams and Intermediate (part I and part II) exams every year. A great number of students participate in these exams every year. The exams mostly started in the month of March and ends April while the results of BISE Faisalabad announced in the month of July and August. The matric result usually announced in July while the inter result announced in the end of August or the start of September. Results of all the classes are also published on the BISE website. On the days when the results of 10th and 12th class are announced, there is a ceremony at the Board office where medals and other awards are given to the position holder students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27924301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27924301", "title": "Business Wars", "text": "Business Wars\n\nA lot of strategy is used when players have to make decisions and negotiate. Messages always arrive using the data feed style to make the game more business-like. The game can end with a loss if the wrong decision is made at the wrong time (similar to dying in an action game). The player will have to deal with loan sharks in the Caribbean, ruthless corporate executives from rival companies, arbitration sessions, and components that make the game look more like a strategy game at times. There are no items to use and very little action (with moving the guy around a virtual office building).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5364726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5364726", "title": "Chicago College of Performing Arts", "text": "Chicago College of Performing Arts\n\nChicago College of Performing Arts or CCPA is a performing arts college that is housed at Roosevelt University in Chicago, Illinois. While CCPA is officially a part of Roosevelt University, CCPA (both the institution and its students) has its own distinct personality. The relationship between the two is much like that of the Eastman School of Music and The University of Rochester or The College-Conservatory of Music and the University of Cincinnati. The college has two divisions: the Music Conservatory and the Theatre Conservatory. Nearly 600 students come from more than 40 states and 25 countries to study at CCPA. The faculty consists primarily of world class professional actors, directors and musicians, including nearly 30 members of the Chicago Symphony and the Lyric Opera of Chicago (half of whom are principals) and theatre performers with credits from Broadway to Chicago and the West Coast.\n\nChicago Musical College was founded in 1867, less than four decades after the city of Chicago was incorporated. It has given over a hundred years of uninterrupted service to music and music education and has played an important role in the development of the cultural life of the Midwest.\n\nIn 1865, after initial efforts to establish a college of music, the Chicago Conservatorium of Music was founded, with Florenz Ziegfeld, Sr. as its director. (Ziegfeld Sr. was the father of Florenz, Jr., who is better known as a successful and trail-blazing Broadway impresario.)\n\nTwo years later, in 1867, Ziegfeld established his own Chicago Academy of Music, the fourth conservatory in America. In 1871, the conservatory moved to a new building which was destroyed only a few weeks later by the Great Chicago Fire; despite the conflagration, the College was again up and running by the end of the year.\n\nIn 1872, the school changed its name to Chicago Musical College; over 900 students were enrolled in that year. A Normal Teachers' Institute was added to the school's offerings. Tuition in those far-off days cost an average of one dollar per lesson. Four years later the State of Illinois accredited the College as a degree granting institution of higher learning. A Preparatory Division was opened which established branches throughout the city.\n\nRudolph Ganz joined CMC's faculty in 1900 and, except for a brief hiatus in the 1920s, remained associated with the school until his death in 1972. In 1917, CMC offered a Master of Music Degree, and seven years later the School became a charter member of the National Association of Schools of Music.\n\nBy 1925, the College moved into its own eleven-story building at 64 E. Van Buren Street. One hundred and twenty-five names appeared on the faculty roster for that year, and the School opened three dormitory floors for students. In 1936, CMC was admitted as a full member to the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, the only independent music college in the Midwest to enjoy such status. By 1947 the College was offering Doctorates in Fine Arts and Music Education.\n\nIn 1954, CMC merged with Roosevelt University's School of Music which was founded in 1945. The name \"Chicago Musical College\" was retained for the new college which was created by the union of the two schools. All operations moved to join the University in the now national landmark Auditorium Building at 430 South Michigan Avenue in Chicago's Loop. The building houses one of the finest auditoriums in the world, in addition to the Rudolph Ganz Memorial Recital Hall.\n\nIn the fall of 1997 Roosevelt established a College of Performing Arts which joined Chicago Musical College and the Theater Program under one administrative unit. In 2000, under the leadership of new dean James Gandre, the name was changed to Chicago College of Performing Arts. Rudy Marcozzi acted as Interim Dean during the 2008-2009 school year until Henry Fogel, the former President of the Chicago Symphony, assumed the post of Dean of CCPA in the Fall of 2009. Linda Berna is the Associate Dean/Director of the Music Conservatory, and Sean Kelley is the Associate Dean/Director of the Theatre Conservatory\n\nGanz Hall was originally conceived as a banquet hall for the Auditorium Hotel after the building had already been constructed in 1890. Louis Sullivan, the architect of the building, was faced with trying to build a new large space within the world's largest mixed-use high-rise building. The only area available for constructing a room for banqueting was above the Auditorium Theatre.\n\nThe two primary innovations of the project were to design a special support system for a two-story structure and bring about a refined space capable of formal dining. First, Sullivan worked closely with his partner and structural engineer, Dankmar Adler, to develop a system of iron trusses. The entire frame of the building was constructed to span across the top of the Theatre similar to the long spans of bridge design. This was the first innovation of the project.\n\nThe Banquet Hall, entered from the seventh floor of the hotel, is a fine example of the refinement of the ornamentation, the second innovation. Sullivan used a unique and distinctive system of ornamentation such as carved wood panels and capitals, stenciled wall patterns, elaborate plaster work, gilded lighting fixtures, and the use of Michigan birch and gold leaf - all of which made the interior striking. A young apprentice working for Sullivan, Frank Lloyd Wright, had obtained much responsibility at the time and designed some of the ornament.\n\nThe ornament is quite intricate and well-developed. The columns are large tapered-over scaled piers with rounded corners from which the ornament \"appears\" from the grain of the wood. The piers were a modern expression of the time because Sullivan stripped away all the traditional Victorian details in lieu of a simple oversized design.\n\nAround 1912, the Banquet Hall was used as a Masonic Lodge. The Masons made several alterations. The musicians' gallery at the north end of the hall was removed. A balcony was installed at the rear of the hall. They also sealed the center pair of doors, removed three of the stained glass windows, and painted the remaining windows black. The stencils were painted over and acoustical tiles were applied to the face of the beams.\n\nIn 1956, Chicago Musical College of Roosevelt University obtained the Hall. Many of the Masons' alterations were eliminated and the Hall was restored and converted to a recital hall. Under the direction of architect Crombie Taylor, the goal of restoring the room as closely as possible to the original ornamentation while providing an attractive hall for music recitals was begun. A stage and fixed theatre seating were installed to achieve this function. The majority of stencil patterns were recovered. Today, reproductions of the stencils remain on the back wall and in one of the arches as originally designed by Sullivan. However, some of the work that was planned, such as the stenciling on the beams and walls, and installing the ornamental light fixtures, was not completed at that time. \n\nIn 1980, architect John Vinci completed a project that helped control the environmental effects on the hall. A new roof and exterior wall system were installed along with new windows and skylights. Water that had been seeping into the Hall was eliminated. This was the beginning of keeping the Hall intact without further damage.\n\nWork continues to restore the hall to its former splendor and provide adequately for use of the space as a recital hall. In 2001 the paintings lining the walls were removed and restored at the Art Institute. In the fall of 2002 the \"electroliers\" were recreated and installed, as well as a new HVAC system.\n\nThe Faculty of CCPA is made of many musicians from both the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Chicago Lyric Opera as well as other world class musicians from around the world. Notable teachers include Vadim Gluzman, Shmuel Ashkenasi, Robert Chen(Concertmaster of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra), Liu Yang, Tanya Carey, Michael Holmes, Richard Hirschl, David Schrader, John Sharp (Principal cellist of the Chicago Symphony), Denis Azabagic (classical guitar), Paul Wertico, Wendy Warner, Eugene Izotov, (Principal oboe of the Chicago Symphony), Dale Clevenger (Principal horn of the Chicago Symphony). \nVoice and Opera faculty includes personalities such as: Scott Gilmore, Dr. Dana Brown, Samuel Ramey, Richard Stillwell, Judith Haddon, Allan Glassman, Jonita Lattimore, Nicole Cabell, Bruce Hall, Tom Studebaker, Cynthia Clarey and many other legendary musicians.\n\nGanz Hall history taken from a preliminary architectural report by Booth/Hansen & Associates, Sept. 1997\n\n"}
{"id": "22984792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22984792", "title": "Dan Beachy-Quick", "text": "Dan Beachy-Quick\n\nDan Beachy-Quick is an American poet, writer, and critic. He is the author of four collections of poems, most recently, \"Circle's Apprentice\" (Tupelo Press), and \"A Whaler’s Dictionary\" (Milkweed Editions), a collection of essays about \"Moby Dick.\" His honors include a Lannan Foundation Residency and a Guggenheim Fellowship.\n\nHis poems have appeared widely in literary journals, including \"The Boston Review, The New Republic, Fence, Poetry (magazine), Chicago Review, VOLT, The Colorado Review, Paris Review\", and \"New American Writing\", and in anthologies including \"Best American Poetry 2008\" and in a chaplet, \"Sleep/Echo/Song\" (Wintered Press, 2006). His essays and reviews have appeared in \"The New York Times, The Southern Review, The Poker, Rain Taxi, The Denver Quarterly, Interim,\" and other venues. He serves as Poetry Advisor for the literary journal A Public Space.\n\nBeachy-Quick was born in 1973 in Chicago, and grew up in Colorado and upstate New York. His parents divorced when he was three and he was raised by his mother in Colorado, and spent summers in Ithaca, New York, with his father and grandparents.\n\nHe attended Hamilton College, the University of Denver, and the Iowa Writers' Workshop. He has taught writing at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and currently he is an assistant professor of English at Colorado State University. He lives in Fort Collins, Colorado with his wife and daughters.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32414876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32414876", "title": "Duke-UNC China Leadership Summit", "text": "Duke-UNC China Leadership Summit\n\nThe Duke-UNC China Leadership Summit (CLS) is an annual student conference that brings together distinguished student leaders and eminent individuals in the fields of academia, politics and business to examine the rise of China.\n\nInspired by student conferences like The Harvard Project for Asian and International Relations and the Forum for American/Chinese Exchange at Stanford, CLS is the first conference of its kind in the southern United States. Established in 2010 with the goal of providing sustained collaboration between students and faculty at Duke University and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and to connect students in the Research Triangle to innovative research and professional development opportunities in field of US-China relations. it has grown to host over 100 delegates from across the US and China.\n\nIn 2012, the Duke-UNC China Leadership Summit established a working relationship with Wuhan University and sponsored Wuhan students to attend the second annual Summit. The partnership arose out of Duke University's partnership with Wuhan University and the city of Kunshan on Duke Kunshan University (DKU). It was at the 2012 CLS that the Managing Director of DKU Nora Bynum announced that DKU programs will start in 2013, one year later than anticipated. CLS 2012 received sponsorship from the prestigious Kenan-Biddle Grant and was able to offer admission to non Duke and UNC Students.\n\n1. David Shambaugh, Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and the Director of the China Policy Program at George Washington University<br>\n2. Jenny Chan, Departmental Lecturer in the Sociology of China at Oxford University and Advisor to Students and Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior (SACOM)<br>\n3. Bonnie Glaser, Senior Adviser for Asia, Freeman Chair in China Studies and Senior Associate, Pacific Forum at CSIS<br>\n4. Rachel Wasser, Cofounder of Teach for China<br>\n5. David Wertime, Cofounder of Tea Leaf Nation<br>\n6. Aaron Friedberg, Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University<br>\n7. Dan Blumenthal, Director of Asian Studies at the American Enterprise Institute<br>\n8. Deborah Bräutigam, Professor of Comparative Politics and Director of the International Development Program (IDEV), and the China Africa Research Initiative (CARI) at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS)<br>\n9. David H. Shinn, Adjunct Professor of International Affairs at The George Washington University's Elliott School of International Affairs<br>\n10. Paul Haagen, Senior Associate Dean at the Duke Law School and former chair of Duke's China Faculty Council<br>\n\nHarvard University<br>\nNew York University Shanghai<br>\nYale University<br>\nUniversity of Southern California<br>\nLiberty University<br>\nGrinnell College<br>\nUniversity of Alabama<br>\nColumbia University in the City of New York<br>\nDavidson College<br>\nWashington University in St. Louis<br>\nWellesley College<br>\nWright State University<br>\nGuilford College<br>\nUniversity of Mississippi<br>\nPrinceton University\n\n"}
{"id": "32322757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32322757", "title": "FAIR Education Act", "text": "FAIR Education Act\n\nFair, Accurate, Inclusive, and Respectful Education Act, also known as the FAIR Education Act (Senate Bill 48) and informally described by media outlets as the LGBT History Bill, is a California law which compels the inclusion of the political, economic, and social contributions of persons with disabilities and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people into educational textbooks and the social studies curricula in California public schools by amending the California Education Code. It also revises the previous designation of \"black Americans, American Indians, Mexicans, Asians, [and] Pacific Island people\" in that list into \"Native Americans, African Americans, Mexican Americans, Asian Americans, Pacific Islanders, and European Americans\". It would also amend an existing law by adding sexual orientation and religion into a list of characteristics (which already includes race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, and disability) that schools are prohibited from sponsoring negative activities about or teaching students about in an adverse way.\n\nIn particular, according to chief author Sen. Mark Leno, it \"ensures that the historical contributions of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are accurately and fairly portrayed in instructional materials by adding LGBT people to the existing list of under-represented cultural and ethnic groups already included in the state’s inclusionary education requirements.\"\n\nThe bill was introduced into the Senate on December 13, 2010, and was finally passed 23-14 on April 14, 2011. The bill was then passed by the Assembly on July 5 by a vote of 49-25. Governor Jerry Brown, who has historically opposed Proposition 8 and has generally supported LGBT rights in the state, signed the bill into law on July 14. Governor Brown said however that state textbooks probably would not be updated to reflect the requirements of the law until 2015.\n\nIt is supported by the GSA Network and Equality California, and the National Center for Lesbian Rights welcomed its ratification into law. The California Teachers Association's President Dean Vogel stated, “We believe that curricula should address the common values of the society, promote respect for diversity and cooperation, and prepare students to compete in, and cope with a complex and rapidly evolving society. SB 48 does that by helping to ensure that curricular materials include the contributions of persons with disabilities, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Americans to the development of California and United States.”\n\nIt is opposed by the state Republican Party and socially conservative organizations. A conservative group called Stop SB 48 is collecting signatures to place a referendum on the June 2012 statewide ballot. If successful, SB 48 would be repealed. LGBT rights groups fear that it will be difficult to defend the law if it were to go to a popular vote. It is notable that the law does not include an opt-out option for parents who do not wish to have their children learn about LGBT topics in school.\n\nIn October, 2011, Stop SB 48 failed to collect enough signatures for the issue to be placed on a referendum in June 2012. Opponents of the bill will have other opportunities to overturn the law via a ballot initiative or a constitutional amendment. The constitutional amendment option demands even more signatures and is thus more costly. The repeal campaign has been accused of exaggerating the bill's effects in order to convince people to sign petitions. The Courage Campaign filed a formal complaint with the California Attorney General, District Attorney, and the Oceanside City Attorney on behalf of the witness, Max Disposti. The Courage campaign also started an online petition asking for an investigation into the tactics of Stop SB 48.\n\nIn November 2011, Stop SB 48 sent out an e-mail to their supporters telling them that they indeed plan to pursue a ballot initiative to try and repeal SB 48. There are actually two proposals that were submitted to the California Attorney General to be cleared for the collection of signatures. One seeks to outright repeal SB 48, while the other seeks to grant parents the right to opt their children out of such instruction. The initiative to repeal SB 48 failed to gather enough signatures to qualify for the ballot, gathering only about 460,000 of the 504,760 required. The other initiative was withdrawn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33290701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33290701", "title": "FBLA-PBL", "text": "FBLA-PBL\n\nThe Future Business Leaders of America-Phi Beta Lambda, or FBLA-PBL (FBLA-ΦΒΛ), is an American career and technical student organization that has its headquarters in Reston, Virginia. Established in 1940, FBLA-PBL is a non-profit organization of high school (\"FBLA\"), middle school (\"Middle Level\"), and college (\"PBL\") students, as well as professional members (\"Professional Division\"), who primarily help students transition to the business world. FBLA-PBL is one of the largest student-run organizations in the United States of America, with 253,365 members, and the largest career student organization in the world. Local FBLA-PBL chapters are often connected to their school's business education department, and most advisers are business education teachers. It is one of the top 10 organizations listed by the U.S. Department of Education. FBLA's national charity partner is the March of Dimes, and the March of Dimes provides grants of $1,000 for local chapters and $2,500 for state chapters to promote their goals.\n\nFBLA-PBL was created by Hamden Forkner of Columbia University. Forkner, who also created the Forkner shorthand system, proposed that there should be one national organization to join the business clubs throughout the nation. The name \"Future Business Leaders of America\" was selected in 1940 and two years later the first chapter was created at Science Hill High School in Johnson City, Tennessee. In 1958, PBL is founded with the first chapter at the University of Northern Iowa and in 1979 the Alumni Division (now the Professional Division) was founded.\n\n\nThe organization is governed by its board of directors, which consists of the CEO, business leaders, state educators, business education teachers, and the three division national presidents.\n\nFBLA-PBL's membership is represented by the FBLA, PBL and Professional Division national officer leadership teams. For FBLA and PBL, the officers are elected by voting delegates at the National Leadership Conference (NLC) and installed during the Awards of Excellence Program.\n\nThe Professional Division officers are elected by electronic ballot in the spring of each year. The Professional Division President serves a two-year term.\n\nThe FBLA and PBL officer teams consist of a president, secretary, treasurer, parliamentarian, and five vice presidents representing each region.\n\nFBLA-PBL divides the United States in five administrative regions. These regions are Western, Mountain Plains, North Central, Southern, and Eastern.\n\nEach state then has what is called a State Chapter, which has its own State Officer Team. The roles in each State Officer Team vary by state, but each usually contains a President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, and a Parliamentarian. Some also have Historians, Webmasters, and Reporters.\nSome states are then divided into regions, districts, or areas. These are often governed by an elected official who serves on the State Officer Team. Just like the national regional executive boards, there are small-scale boards in most regions, districts, and/or areas in most states.\n\nFinally, each chapter has its own officer team. Chapter offices vary by chapter. While most use a structure similar to that of the national officers, other use a corporate-style structure with offices such as CEO, CIO, etc. More information can be found on the national FBLA-PBL website.\n\nFBLA is composed of four divisions: FBLA, PBL, Professional Division and FBLA-Middle Level. Each division except for Middle Level (the FBLA National Officers also represent Middle Level) has their own National Officer team, and most states have an FBLA and PBL state officer team. Some states have Middle Level and Professional Division state officer teams. The entire organization contains more than 250,000 members across the four divisions. \n\nFBLA is the largest division of FBLA-PBL with over 209,000 members. FBLA is separated into five regions: Eastern, Southern, North Central, Mountain Plains and Western. International chapters are part of the Eastern Region. To charter an FBLA state chapter, a state must have at least five local chapters.\n\nPBL is the collegiate division of FBLA-PBL with about 10,000 members. PBL can be found in traditional four year colleges, community colleges and career training programs. PBL attends the National Fall Leadership Conferences with FBLA, but has their own National Leadership Conference (NLC) prior to FBLA's NLC. To charter a PBL state chapter, a state must have at least three local chapters.\n\nFBLA-PBL's Professional Division was founded as the Alumni Division, but had a name change in order to expand to include not only to FBLA alumni, but also the general business community.\n\nFBLA-PBL has over 70 competitive events for FBLA and PBL members. Members compete on the regional, state and national level against their peers in their respective event. There are also open events for Middle Level and Professional Division members on the national level.\n\nThe FBLA-PBL Adviser Wall of Fame recognizes advisers who have given back to the organization through their support for their local or state chapter. To be eligible, an adviser must have at least 20 years of service to FBLA.\n\nAlso known as the Hollis and Kitty Guy Award, each state may select either 2 chapters or 15% of its total number of chapters (whichever is larger) to be named Gold Seal Chapters on the national level.\n\n"}
{"id": "16836377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16836377", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts\n\nFellowship of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA) is an award granted to individuals that the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) judges to have made outstanding achievements to social progress and development. In the official language of the Fellowship Charter, the award recognizes the contributions of exceptional individuals from across the world who have made significant contributions relating to the Arts, Manufacture and Commerce. Fellowship is only awarded to those who can demonstrate that they have made significant contributions to social change, and support the mission of the RSA. Fellows of the RSA are entitled to use the post-nominal letters FRSA. Fellows of the Royal Society of the Arts are entitled to use of the RSA Library and premises in central London.\n\nPast and current fellows include leading artists, writers, journalists and former politicians who have made significant contributions to their fields. Previous Fellows have included Stephen Hawking, Charles Dickens, Karl Marx, Benjamin Franklin, and Nelson Mandela. The Royal Society of the Arts is based in The Strand, near the centre of London, England.\n\nThe Royal Society of the Arts was founded in 1754 by William Shipley as the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacture and Commerce, it was granted a Royal Charter in 1847, and the right to use the term Royal in its name by King Edward VII in 1908. The shorter version, The Royal Society of Arts and the related RSA acronym, are used more frequently than the full name.\n\nIn addition to the Fellowship, the RSA awards three medals, the Albert Medal, the Benjamin Franklin Medal (following a decision by the Board in 2013, the Benjamin Franklin Medal is now overseen by the RSA US, although the final nomination is ratified by the UK Board) and the Bicentenary Medal. Medal winners include Nelson Mandela, Sir Frank Whittle, and Cambridge Professor Stephen Hawking.\n\nSince 1754, the RSA Fellowship has been a community of leaders in the fields of art, literature, journalism, and business who have made significant contributions to society or the arts, and are able to support the mission of the RSA. \n\nNew fellows are selected by the nomination of an existing fellow or by a request for fellowship, which must be supported by two current references. Those seeking to join the Fellowship must outline:\n\n\nAfter the nomination of a candidate has been received, an admissions panel will make the final decision to accept or decline a new fellow.\nExamples of current fellows, who come from diverse backgrounds and professions, include Tim Berners-Lee, Judi Dench, Alex James, Benson Taylor, and Gareth Malone. Previous Fellows have included Stephen Hawking, Marie Curie, Charles Dickens, Benjamin Franklin and Karl Marx. A partial List of Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts gives more examples, alongside the .\n"}
{"id": "5446251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5446251", "title": "IMS VDEX", "text": "IMS VDEX\n\nIMS VDEX, which stands for IMS Vocabulary Definition Exchange, is a mark-up language – or grammar – for controlled vocabularies developed by IMS Global as an open specification, with the Final Specification being approved in February 2004.\n\nIMS VDEX allows the exchange and expression of simple machine-readable lists of human language terms, along with information that may assist a human in understanding the meaning of the various terms, i.e. a flat list of values, a hierarchical tree of values, a thesaurus, a taxonomy, a glossary or a dictionary.\n\nStructural a vocabulary has an identifier, title and a list of terms. Each term has a unique key, titles and (optional) descriptions. A term may have nested terms, thus a hierarchical structure can be created. It is possible to define relationships between terms and add custom metadata to terms.\n\nIMS VDEX support multilinguality. All values supposed to be read by a human, i.e. titles, can be defined in one or more languages.\n\nVDEX was designed to supplement other IMS specifications and the IEEE LOM standard by giving additional semantic control to tool developers. IMS VDEX could be used for the following purposes. It is used in practice for other purposes as well.\n\n\nThe VDEX Information Model is represented in the diagram. A VDEX file describing a vocabulary comprises a number of information elements, most of which are relatively simple, such as a string representation of the default (human) language or a URI identifying the value domain (or vocabulary). Some of the elements are ‘containers’ – such as a \"term\" – that contain additional elements.\n\nElements may be required or optional, and in some cases, repeatable. Within a term, for example, a \"description\" and \"caption\" may be defined. Multiple language definitions can be used inside a description, by using a \"langstring\" element, where the description is paired with the language to be used. Additional elements within a term include \"media descriptors\", which are one or more media files to supplement a term’s description; and \"metadata\", which is used to describe the vocabulary further.\n\nThe \"relationship\" container defines a relationship between terms by identifying the two terms and the specifying type or relationship, such as a term being broader or narrower than another. The term used to specify the type of relationship may conform to the ISO standards for thesauri.\n\n\"Vocabulary identifiers\" are unique, persistent URIs, whereas term or relationship identifiers are locally unique strings. VDEX also allows for a \"default language\" and \"vocabulary name\" to be given, and for whether the ordering of terms within the vocabulary is significant (\"order significance\") to be specified.\n\nA \"profile type\" is specified to describe the type of vocabulary being expressed; different features of the VDEX model are permitted depending on the profile type, providing a common grammar for several classes of vocabulary. For example, it is possible, in some profile types, for terms to be contained within one another and be nested, which is suited to the expression of hierarchical vocabularies. Five profile types exist: \"lax\", \"thesaurus\", \"hierarchicalTokenTerms\", ‘glossaryOrDictionary’ and \"flatTokenTerms\". The lax profile is the least restrictive and offers the full VDEX model, whereas the flatTokenTerms profile is the most restrictive and lightweight.\n\nVDEX also offers some scope for complex vocabularies, assuming the existence of a well-defined application profile (for exchange interoperability). Some examples are:\n\nIdentifiers in VDEX data should be persistent, unique, resolvable, transportable and URI-compliant. Specifically, vocabulary identifiers should be unique URIs, whereas term and relationship identifiers should be locally unique strings.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6653394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6653394", "title": "International University, Cambodia", "text": "International University, Cambodia\n\nInternational University (, IU) is a top private higher education institution specializing in medicine & medical science. Established in 2002, IU is recognized and nationally accredited by the Royal Government of Cambodia, the Royal Cambodian Ministry of Education, Youth & Sports and the Accreditation Committee of Cambodia (ACC). International University education standards are recognized by transnational medical institutions such as the Asia-Europe Foundation, ASAIHL, UN World Health Organization - including accreditation with the U.S.-based ECFMG, FAIMER and IMED enabling medical school graduates to take the three complete steps of the USMLE and on successful completion can register for physician residency and practice medicine in the United States. The medium of instruction used at IU are English and Khmer.\n\n\nApprox. $3,000 a year starting the Fall Semester 2009 for Medical Students.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22098466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22098466", "title": "List of Smithsonian museums", "text": "List of Smithsonian museums\n\nThe Smithsonian museums are the most widely visible part of the United States' Smithsonian Institution and consist of nineteen museums and galleries as well as the National Zoological Park. Seventeen of these collections are located in Washington D.C., with eleven of those located on the National Mall. The remaining ones are in New York City and Chantilly, Virginia. As of 2010, one museum, the Arts and Industries Building, is closed in preparation for a substantial renovation, and its newest museum building, the National Museum of African American History and Culture, opened in 2016.\n\nThe birth of the Smithsonian Institution can be traced to the acceptance of James Smithson's legacy, willed to the United States in 1826. Smithson died in 1829, and in 1836, President Andrew Jackson informed Congress of the gift, which it accepted. In 1838, Smithson's legacy, which totaled more than $500,000, was delivered to the United States Mint and entered the Treasury. After eight years, in 1846, the Smithsonian Institution was established.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution Building (also known as \"The Castle\") was completed in 1855 to house an art gallery, a library, a chemical laboratory, lecture halls, museum galleries, and offices. During this time the Smithsonian was a learning institution concerned mainly with enhancing science and less interested in being a museum. Under the second secretary, Spencer Fullerton Baird, the Smithsonian turned into a full-fledged museum, mostly through the acquisition of 60 boxcars worth of displays from the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. The income from the exhibition of these artifacts allowed for the construction of the National Museum, which is now known as the Arts and Industries Building. This structure was opened in 1881 to provide the Smithsonian with its first proper facility for public display of the growing collections.\n\nThe Institution grew slowly until 1964 when Sidney Dillon Ripley became secretary. Ripley managed to expand the institution by eight museums and increased admission from 10.8 million to 30 million people a year. This period included the greatest and most rapid growth for the Smithsonian, and it continued until Ripley's resignation in 1984. Since the completion of the Arts and Industries Building, the Smithsonian has expanded to twenty separate museums with roughly 137 million objects in their collections, including works of art, natural specimens, and cultural artifacts. The Smithsonian museums are visited by over 25 million people every year.\n\nEleven of the 19 Smithsonian Institution museums and galleries are at the National Mall in Washington D.C., the open-area national park in Washington, D.C. running between the Lincoln Memorial and the United States Capitol, with the Washington Monument providing a division slightly west of the center. Five other Smithsonian museums and the National Zoo are located elsewhere in Washington. Two more Smithsonian museums are located in New York City and one is located in Chantilly, Virginia.\n\nThe Smithsonian also holds close ties with 171 museums in 41 states, as well as Panama and Puerto Rico. These museums are known as Smithsonian Affiliates. Collections of artifacts are given to these museums in the form of long-term loans from the Smithsonian. These long-term loans are not the only Smithsonian exhibits outside the Smithsonian museums. The Smithsonian also has a large number of traveling exhibitions. Each year more than 50 exhibitions travel to hundreds of cities and towns all across the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "31030214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31030214", "title": "List of schools in Mexicali", "text": "List of schools in Mexicali\n\nThis is a List of schools in Mexicali, Baja California.\n\nAccording to a previous census conducted by the INEGI (Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía) in 2008, the number of students who have graduated from Mexicali's public and private schools are as follows:\n\nPre-scholar students: 18,648<br>\nPrimary school students: 17,272<br>\nSecondary school students: 12,337<br>\nTechnical education students: 531<br>\nBaccalaureate students: 6,152\n\nSome public universities in the city include Autonomous University of Baja California, Campus Mexicali, Universidad Politécnica de Baja California and the Instituto Tecnológico de Mexicali. Private universities include Centro de Enseñanza Técnica y Superior, Universidad del Valle de México and Universidad Xochicalco.\n\n"}
{"id": "53705658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53705658", "title": "List of universities in Anguilla", "text": "List of universities in Anguilla\n\nThis is a list of universities in Anguilla.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56454027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56454027", "title": "List of vocational colleges in Uganda", "text": "List of vocational colleges in Uganda\n\nThis a list of vocational colleges in Uganda. This list is not exhaustive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58304541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58304541", "title": "Lycée Jacques-Monod", "text": "Lycée Jacques-Monod\n\nThe lycée Jacques-Monod is a French institute of secondary and higher education located in Lescar (Pyrénées-Atlantiques). It has more than , and is located in a building with a rich history.\n\nIn 1624, three Barnabites living in Lescar in the college founded two years earlier by Bishop Jean de Salettes, with the mission of educating the youth. However, faced with the success of the college, the building proved too small.\n\nA new building was built gradually between 1755 and 1779 to accommodate 100 students. This was the central building of the lycée Jacques-Monod. An important library was also constructed, and parts of it still form the current library at Pau. After the revolution, the religious order were forbidden to enter the college, and it closed in 1793. Over the following years, the building occupied numerous roles: house of detention, war hospital during the war with Spain, and even cotton mill.\n\nAfter 1845, the building returned to its original function, with the founding of a teacher training college for the département of Basses-Pyrénées. In 1978, the building became an annex of the lycée Saint-Cricq in Pau. Finally, the independent lycée Jacques-Monod opened its doors in 1992 after expansion work. The current premises occupy more than and house more than , including boarders.\n\nThe lycée Jacques-Monod is composed of:\n\nThe works were undertaken to allow construction of a new building of in the lycée park. This has been operational since and comprises a kitchen, canteen, library, student office, and reception, student foyer, and multipurpose room for exams, conferences, and student events. The spaces also allow the existing building to free up rooms for courses, local partners, and teachers' lounges. Finally, the cost of the restructuring project was 10.5 million Euros, financed by the region of Aquitaine.\n\n"}
{"id": "49157301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49157301", "title": "MODUL University Dubai", "text": "MODUL University Dubai\n\nMODUL University Dubai (MU Dubai, MDLU Dubai, MUDC) is a university campus of MODUL University Vienna, which started its operations in Dubai, United Arab Emirates in November 2015. The Dubai Campus will be open in September 2016 in ONE JLT, Jumeirah Lakes Towers.\n\nThe name MODUL comes from the honeycomb-like structure of the Tourism College MODUL, where both the school and adjacent hotel of the same name are built in octagonal-shaped conjoined 'modules'. The school and hotel are also in Vienna’s 19th district, and were designed and built from 1973-1975. \nThe university was conceptualized by the leaders of the Tourism College MODUL, and was named MODUL University Vienna (MU Vienna). The two institutions cooperate frequently, but attendance of the Tourism College MODUL is not a prerequisite for to enter the university.\n\nMODUL University Dubai Campus is located in Dubai Multi Commodities Centre (DMCC, Jumeirah Lakes Towers) in the newly established ONE JLT on the 4th floor.\n\nTotal area of the Campus is 22,000 sqft. Around 600 students can study in the Campus at once.\n\nThe following is available at ONE JLT:\n\nMODUL University Dubai has been duly licensed and approved by the Knowledge and Human Development Authority \n\nMU Vienna is governed by a three-member Board of Directors: the President, the Vice President and Managing Director. The University Council consists of five representatives who support the development of MU Vienna, and the President and CEO attend the meetings and report on the developments of the university. The University Assembly consists of all faculty members, two representatives of external lecturers, two representatives of administrative staff, and four students. The University Assembly is chaired by the President, and has the task is to elect the members of committees, and to propose candidates for the offices of President and Vice President.\n\nMU Vienna is among the first universities in Austria to have an Industry Advisory Board in place. Industry experts from the fields of new media technology, public governance, and tourism provide input for the development of curriculum and guidance in student programs that will further the educational experience of students seeking long-term careers.\n\nMODUL University Dubai was founded by Dubai Investments Industries and DACH Advisory. It is the first University from Austria being located in United Arab Emirates and Middle East \n\nAcademic Head is Jörg Finsinger.\n\nA shareholders' agreement was signed to outline the framework for the new campus in the presence of Khalid Bin Kalban, Managing Director and CEO of Dubai Investments, H.E. Walter Ruck, President of Vienna Chamber of Commerce - owners of MODUL University Vienna, Zaid Maleh, CEO of DACH Advisory Group, H.E. Peter Elsner-Mackay, Austrian Ambassador to the UAE, Mohammed Saeed Al Raqbani, General Manager of Dubai Investments Industries, and other top officials.\n\nDuring the ceremony, the below was said:\n\nEducation is one of the fastest growing sectors in the UAE, driven by a growing population and the rising demand for quality education. Dubai Investments is committed to play a pivotal role in facilitating the knowledge-sharing; and bringing the prestigious MODUL University to Dubai is a step in the direction amidst unprecedented growth opportunities on offer in the UAE education sector. Only 2% of institutions in the UAE offer courses in tourism and hospitality, whereas this sector alone employs over 530,000 professionals in the country. With the tourism and hospitality sector forecast to grow 9% year-on-year and government's increased emphasis on boosting tourism avenues, we feel MODUL University Dubai is the right fit in the UAE market, with its strong legacy in the tourism and hospitality education worldwide.\nKhalid Bin Kalban, Managing Director and CEO of Dubai Investments \n\nMODUL University Vienna enjoys a sterling international reputation for its standards and the reputed Austrian know-how in education. The comprehensive academic curriculum, particularly in the tourism and hospitality sector, will prepare students in the UAE and the GCC for the competitive world. We are happy to join hands with Dubai Investments and DACH ADVISORY in achieving this\nH.E. Walter Ruck, President of Vienna Chamber of Commerce - owners of MODUL University Vienna \n\n\n\n\nMODUL University Vienna has identified sustainability as one of its key principles. Sustainability represents an integral part of the curriculum and research agenda, and is also reflected in the daily work-flow. The university operates in a manner that minimizes environmental risk and adverse effects on the environment. The solar panels, pellet heating and recycling system in the university building are just some examples of the sustainable living and thinking within the university. In addition, MODUL University Vienna was the first Austrian university to sign a contract with a renewable energy provider. An internal ‘Sustainability Committee’ (SC) composed of staff, faculty and students works to maintain and improve the university’s sustainability goals.\n\nMODUL University was awarded 2nd place in the category \"Structural Foundations,\" encouraging sustainable development at the 2010 Sustainability Awards presented by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management and the Austrian Federal Ministry of Science and Research for its Sustainability Committee. At the 2012 awards it won first place in the category \"Structural Foundation\" and third place in the category \"Teaching & Curricula/International Cooperations\". The committee gives two awards annually for the best ideas for sustainability implementable at the university; the Scholarship of Hope for students and the Employee Sustainability Award for the staff and faculty. Extracurricular activities such as movie nights and excursions to sustainable energy producers are also arranged by the Sustainability Committee.\n\n\nList of universities and colleges in the United Arab Emirates\n"}
{"id": "8060037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8060037", "title": "Mark Jarzombek", "text": "Mark Jarzombek\n\nMark Jarzombek (born 1954) is a United States-born architectural historian, author and critic. Since 1995 he has taught and served within the History Theory Criticism Section of the Department of Architecture at MIT School of Architecture and Planning, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States.\n\nJarzombek received his architectural training at the ETH Zurich, where he graduated in 1980. From there he went to MIT, where he received his doctorate in 1986. He taught at Cornell University until 1994. He has written on a wide variety of subjects, from Renaissance architecture to contemporary criticism. He was a 2005 Fellow at the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute (Williamstown, MA), a 2002 Fellow at the Canadian Centre for Architecture (Montreal) a 1993 Resident Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study (Princeton) and a 1986 Post-doctoral Fellow at the Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities (Santa Monica).\n\nJarzombek taught a massive open online course \"A Global History of Architecture\" at edX in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29610140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29610140", "title": "Master of Science in Global Finance", "text": "Master of Science in Global Finance\n\nMaster of Science in Global Finance (MSGF) program is a one-year executive-format master degree program jointly offered by Hong Kong University of Science and Technology and NYU Stern School of Business since 2007.\n\nProfessors who teach and have taught in the MSGF program include those aside. Students have access to resources at both schools and are members of each school's alumni network. The current cohort comes with an average work experience of 10 years, and represent 17 nationalities from 12 work locations.\n\nThe MSGF program takes place over one year, and consists of seven modules - four in Hong Kong, two in New York City and one in Shanghai. Students receive a Master of Science issued jointly by the two universities. Topics covered include the following; see also Master of Finance #Structure:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980831", "title": "Mental abacus", "text": "Mental abacus\n\nThe abacus system of mental calculation is a system where users mentally visualize an abacus to do calculations. No physical abacus is used; only the answers are written down. Calculations can be made at great speed in this way. For example, in the Flash Anzan event at the All Japan Soroban Championship, champion Takeo Sasano was able to add fifteen three-digit numbers in just 1.7 seconds.\n\nThis system is being propagated in China, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Malaysia, Japan. Mental calculation is said to improve mental capability, increases speed of response, memory power, and concentration power.\n\nMany veteran and prolific abacus users in China, Japan, South Korea, and others who use the abacus daily, naturally tend to not use the abacus anymore but perform calculations by visualizing the abacus. This was verified when the right brain measured heightened EEG activity when calculating and compared with non-veterans who were using the abacus to perform calculations.\n\nThe standard abacus can be used to perform addition, subtraction, division, and multiplication; the abacus can also be used to extract square-roots and cubic roots.\nUniversal Concept of Mental Arithmetic System (UCMAS), a brain development programme, is implemented from KG1 to Grade 8. The UCMAS International Competition What started as a mere vision more than 20 years ago is now a reality with thousand of learners from over 50 countries competing in this international competition every year. 22nd 2017 Annual UCMAS National and International Abacus and Mental Arithmetic Competition 19th Nov 2017 (National Competition, Malaysia) and 9th & 10th Dec 2017 (International Competition in Bali, Indonesia).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7245757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7245757", "title": "Mohammed V University at Souissi", "text": "Mohammed V University at Souissi\n\nMohammed V University at Souissi (Souissi, Rabat, Morocco) is a nonprofit Moroccan public institution of higher education and scientific research. It is located in Rabat, in the Al Irfane campus.\n\nAs of the academic season 2012-2013, the university counted 23,746 alumni.\n\nThe Mohammed V University, the first university founded in December 21, 1957 by King Mohammed V after independence, has provided and continues to provide training of high level executives both administrative and teaching the country. The university was split into two independent universities in 1992 (Mohammed V University at Souissi and Mohammed V University at Agdal).\n\nWith seven training institutions and three research institutes, the University Mohammed V at Souissi covers various areas of education, namely: Life Sciences and Health, Science and Technology, and Social Sciences.\n\nThe university contains 10 institutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "989091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989091", "title": "NASUWT", "text": "NASUWT\n\nThe National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers (NASUWT) is a TUC-affiliated trade union representing teachers, including headteachers, throughout the United Kingdom.\n\nThe union organises in all sectors from early years to further education and represents teachers in all roles including heads and deputies. With over 300,000 members, it is the second largest teachers' union in United Kingdom. The NASUWT claims to be independent of any political party, and seeks to influence educational policy on behalf of its members with national government and the devolved assemblies in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.\n\nThe NASUWT resulted from the 1976 merger of the National Association of Schoolmasters (NAS) with the Union of Women Teachers (UWT) and the Scottish Schoolmasters' Association. This was largely a consequence of the Sex Discrimination Act 1975, which made it unlawful to exclude from membership on grounds of gender, and became the National Association of Schoolmasters/Union of Women Teachers (NAS/UWT). In recent years, the slash has been dropped from the name.\n\nThe NAS/UWT took part in long-running industrial action between 1984 and 1986, in support of a pay claim and the retention of the Burnham committee. Both the NAS/UWT and NUT lost members to the less militant Professional Association of Teachers and Assistant Masters and Mistresses Association.\n\nNASUWT policy is determined by its annual conference, to which delegates are elected from over 300 local associations. Members also elect the National Executive Committee of 44 members. This committee, together with the General Secretary and other elected officials, determine the day-to-day business of the union.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2010 the NASUWT was involved in \"social partnership\" - a programme of meetings between union leaders, the Labour government and employers' organisations. The meetings were initially to discuss pay and workforce issues but developed into a forum for broader discussion on policy proposals. The National Union of Teachers chose not to participate in social partnership. The NASUWT argues that social partnership brought about benefits to teachers' terms and conditions through the \"National Agreement – Raising Standards, Tackling Workload\", especially the introduction of defined planning and assessment time for all teachers.\n\nSocial partnership was confined to the Labour government, and did not continue after the establishment of the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition in 2010. Instead, the union lodged a formal trade dispute with the government over workload, conditions of service, pensions, and jobs. In November 2011, members of the NASUWT voted by a 4-to-1 margin (on a 39% turnout) to take strike action, and begin working to the letter of their contracts. The NASUWT set aside historical differences with the National Union of Teachers; a joint declaration in May 2012 led to a co-ordinated work-to-rule and strike action in autumn 2013.\n\nThe NASUWT has initiated a number of influential campaigns in recent years, including a campaign leading to the abolition of a code of conduct proposed by the General Teaching Council, a campaign recognising the effects of cyberbullying, a campaign to preserve the anonymity of teachers from malicious or false allegations, and a campaign to bar members of the British National Party from the teaching profession.\n\nAfter 2010, the union joined campaigns against the coalition government. It asserted that \"the Education Act 2011 heralded the break-up of the entire state education service\" and subsequently lobbied under the slogan \"Reclaim the promise\", harking back to the Education Act 1944. NASUWT encouraged its members to join marches sponsored by the TUC, and participated in the Robin Hood tax campaign.\n\nThe NASUWT headquarters is at Rednal in Birmingham, with the General Secretary's office in Covent Garden, London. The union has nine other offices in England, and a single office in each of Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42417640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42417640", "title": "National Curriculum for Wales", "text": "National Curriculum for Wales\n\nThe National Curriculum was first introduced in Wales as part of the Education Reform Act 1988, alongside the equivalent curriculum for England. Following devolution in 1999, education became a matter for the Welsh government. Consequently, some elements of the system are different from those in England.\n\nSchooling is divided into four phases in Wales, each relating to pupils of different ages. Key Stages 2 to 4 mirror those used in England, with pupils in Key Stage 2 being aged 7-11, in Key Stage 3 aged 11-14 and Key Stage 4 representing the GCSE years of 14- to 16-year-olds. For children aged between 3 and 7, the key stage is known as the Foundation Phase. Within each phase or key stage, certain subjects are set out in statute as part of the national curriculum.\n\nWithin the foundation phase, the curriculum is set out in seven areas of learning:\n\nThe following subjects are statutory at each of the later key stages:\n"}
{"id": "4762040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4762040", "title": "Nicaraguan Literacy Campaign", "text": "Nicaraguan Literacy Campaign\n\nThe Nicaraguan Literacy Campaign, also called the Literacy Campaign, was a campaign launched in 1980 by the Sandinista government in order to reduce illiteracy in Nicaragua. It was awarded the prestigious UNESCO Literacy Award. There have been many other literacy campaigns in the country since the first one was launched in 1980.\n\nPrior to the Sandinista Revolution in 1979 the majority of the rural population of Nicaragua was illiterate, with estimates as high as 75%-90%. The total population had an estimated illiteracy rate of 50%. Planning for the literacy campaign began approximately four months after the Sandinista Revolution which overthrew the Somoza political dynasty. Nearly 60,000 youths (high school and college age) and 30,000 adults of varying backgrounds were trained in two weeks for the five-month campaign. Citizen groups, workers' associations, youth organizations, and public institutions provided organizational support for the campaign. The goals of the literacy campaign were of a social-political, strategic and educational nature:\nThe first Nicaraguan Literacy Campaign was launched by the Sandinista government and took place between March 3 and August 23, 1980. It was just one of the key large scale programs that the Sandinista government implemented during their presidency.\n\nVolunteers came from all over the country to participate in the project. There were two types of volunteers in the project, those who could not leave for the countryside such as: housewives, government employees and workers; thus, they worked in urban neighborhoods as \"Citizens’ Literacy Promoters\" (AP). The second and most important groups of volunteers under the \"Popular Literacy Army\" (EPA) were the youth that worked full-time in the rural and mountainous areas. The groups of influential youth who mostly came from secondary schools or universities, were named after the brigadistas that contributed to the Cuban Literacy Campaign. Like their Cuban mentors, the brigadistas did not only teach the rural peasants to read and write; but they were also integrated into the families, bridging the gap between the rural and urban citizens of the nation. Because the young volunteers were as young as 12 years of age, many parents speculated on the idea of allowing them to participate.\n\nMassive campaigns through the media and youth groups were organized in order to convince them. Other campaigns had to also be arranged to convince teachers to participate, because a lot of them despised the idea of working closely with their students. Altogether, approximately 95,140.87 Nicaraguans actually volunteered in the campaign.\n\nThe campaign used a number of tactics to increase the participation and creativity of the illiterates during their learning process which included experiential learning, dialogue, group discussions and collective problem solving. However, these tactics were not as successful as perceived because the training process of the volunteers was very brief and started a month before the actual campaign. The first stage of the training process consisted of a two-week intensive workshop and those trained first would train the next group of volunteers. After the 3rd group was trained, schools and universities were closed down in order to train the remaining. \nLiteracy Congresses were held in order to evaluate the outcome of the literacy campaign. The evaluation illustrated impressive results considering the fact that a rocky road was taken to get to where they were. Altogether, about one-fifth of the population participated directly in the campaign and almost everyone was affected in at least an indirect way. Overall, illiteracy had reduced by about 37.39% with about 7% illiterates in the industrialized Pacific and 25.95% in the less developed regions. Even though illiteracy was still higher in the rural areas, they were more affected by the campaign with a major decrease of about 52.5%. The interaction between the rural and urban regions in Nicaragua was one of the most important results. Such interactions led to the integration of the once quite independent two regions, with a binding sense of nationalism throughout the country. The fact that every class, race, gender and age was involved, brought about a new perspective towards the distribution of power and wealth. Women also played a major role in the literacy campaign. Like the Cuban example, about 60% of the brigadistas were female and such a title made the women feel a sense of belonging and equalization in the revolutionary process of their country. Lastly, due to the great success of the campaign, Nicaragua made a substantial contribution in finding solutions for the eradication of illiteracy worldwide. In September 1980, UNESCO awarded Nicaragua with the Nadezhda K. Krupskaya award for its successful literacy campaign. This was followed by the literacy campaigns of 1982, 1986, 1987, 1995 and 2000, all of which were also awarded by UNESCO.\n\nFrom October to March 1981 additional campaigns were held in Nicaragua's Caribbean coast to reduce illiteracy to over 12,000 people in their native languages of in local Miskito, Sumo and various Creole languages such as Nicaraguan Creole. This was followed by many other literacy campaigns throughout the nation.\n\nThe first phase of the literacy campaign was carried out with support of Sandinista mayors’ offices and used audiovisual equipment and teaching materials donated by Cuba as well as consulting assistance. During that period, around 70,000 people learned to read and write.\n\nIn 2007, after Daniel Ortega began his second term as President of Nicaragua, under the Carlos Fonseca Amador Popular Education Association, a new literacy campaign was announced and later launched in March 2007. The new literacy campaign was based on the \"Yo, sí puedo\" (Yes, I can) Cuban method. Estimates say over 350,000-500,000 Nicaraguans would be taught to read and write. The literacy campaign was coordinated by Orlando Pineda and received finance and support from Cuba, Spain and Venezuela. The goal of the literacy campaigns is to declare Nicaragua free of illiteracy by 2009.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "48762878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48762878", "title": "Ontario College of Trades", "text": "Ontario College of Trades\n\nThe Ontario College of Trades (College) is the regulatory body that governs skilled trades in Ontario. The College officially opened its doors on April 8, 2013 and its activities are mandated by the \"Ontario College of Trades and Apprenticeship Act, 2009\" (OCTAA).\n\nThe College is governed by a board of governors with 21 members-4 members from construction, industrial, motive power, and service fields. In addition each trade is represented by a trade board consisting of 4-12 members, consisting of an equal number of employers and employees.\n\nThe organization itself is staffed by approximately 150 professional and enforcement staff in various departments including Standards, Policy & Research, Compliance & Enforcement, Communications, and Corporate Governance.\n\nAll members of the governing structure are appointed by an independent Appointments Council, who are in turn appointed by the Lieutenant Governor in Council.\n\nSkilled trades in Ontario consist of two broad categories:\n\n\nUnder the \"'Ontario College of Trades and Apprenticeship Act, 2009,\" (OCTAA) one cannot hold themselves as having a Certificate of Qualification in either a compulsory trade or voluntary trade unless they are a member of the College (with some exceptions). As well, all apprentices must be members of the College.\n\nThose holding Certificates of Qualification in voluntary trades before 2013 who have opted to not join the College are not required to present their Certificate of Qualification to inspectors. As well, they cannot have their Certificate of Qualification suspended or revoked by the College but as per all members, must abide by the College's Code of Ethics.\n\nTo maintain membership, members are charged a membership fee.\n\nThere are a number of different membership classes:\n\nIn Ontario and according to OCTAA, in order to ensure the safety and certification of qualifications for all journeypersons in the 23 compulsory trades and all apprentices regardless of their trades’ classification, membership in the College is legally required. \n\nBeing a member of the College separates those with certification and training from underground and unregulated, uncertifed workers.\n\nAll members are searchable on the College’s Public Register, which is an online database that enables anyone to easily confirm the qualifications of any compulsory tradesperson or apprentice before hiring them to fix their toilet, wire their house, change their brakes or cut/colour their hair. \n\nLike all regulatory bodies in Ontario, the College is required to be financially self-sustaining, and just like the College of Teachers or the College of Nurses, the Ontario College of Trades is funded entirely through membership fees. \n\nFees go towards the establishment of apprenticeship training programs, updating training and curriculum standards—some of which have not been updated in 20 years— and exams, promotion of trades to youth and underrepresented groups, and compliance activities.\n\nIn 2015, former Secretary of Cabinet Tony Dean released a report making a number of recommendations to support the development of the College of Trades.\n\nThe recommendations in the report encompassed many areas including governance models, noting that most professional organizations have some membership elected representation. However; the primary areas covered were scopes of practice, trade classification and reclassification reviews, ratio reviews, and enforcement.\n\nA number of construction trade unions, including the Ontario Sheet Metal Workers Conference and the International Brotherhood of Metal Workers opposed the report because it lacked consultation with stakeholders. However; the largest construction union in North America, LiUNA, has expressed cautious optimism and support for the report.\n\nSince the release of this report, several regulations based on its recommendations have been passed by government and the College has been working on the implementation of most of Dean's suggestions. \n\n"}
{"id": "31588158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31588158", "title": "Pamir University", "text": "Pamir University\n\nPamir University () is a private higher education institute which was officially inaugurated on April 24, 2011 in the city of Khost, Khost Province, southeastern Afghanistan.\n\nPamir University has three faculties: computer science, language and literature, and economics. \n"}
{"id": "7904749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7904749", "title": "Pattern Blocks", "text": "Pattern Blocks\n\nPattern Blocks are one of the mathematical manipulatives developed in the 1960s by Education Development Center as part of their Elementary Science Study project. They are both a play resource and a tool for learning in mathematics, which serve to develop spatial reasoning skills that are fundamental to the learning of mathematics. Among other things, they allow children to see how shapes can be composed and decomposed into other shapes, and introduce children to ideas of tilings. Pattern blocks sets include multiple copies of just six shapes:\n\nAll the angles are multiples of 30° (1/12 of a circle): 30° (1×), 60° (2×), 90° (3×), 120° (4×), and 150° (5×).\n\nThe blocks were designed with their possibilites for both mathematics and play in mind. The advice given in the 1968 EDC Teacher's Guide is: \"Take out the blocks, and play with them yourself. Try out some of your own ideas. Then, when you give the blocks to the children, sit back and watch what they do.\"\nChristopher Danielson identifies a number of frequent features of play which occur:\n\nThe EDC Teacher's Guide continues: \"Many children start by making abstract designs — both symmetrical and asymmetrical. As play continues these designs may become more and more elegant and complex, or they become simple as the child refines his ideas.\"\n\nAn example of their use is given by Meha Agrawal: \"Starting from the center, I would add tier after tier of blocks to build my pattern — it was an iterative process, because if something didn't look aesthetically appealing or fit correctly, it would require peeling off a layer and reevaluating ways to fix it. The best part was the gratification I received when my creation was complete. Though individually boring, collectively these blocks produced an intricate masterpiece that brought art and math, big-picture and detail, simplicity and complexity closer together\".\n\nA number of compatible shapes that extend pattern blocks are commercially available. Two sets of \"Fractional Pattern Blocks\" exist: both with two blocks. The first has a pink double hexagon and a black chevron equivalent to four triangles. The second has a brown half-trapezoid and a pink half-triangle. Another set, Deci-Blocks, is made up of six shapes, equivalent to four, five, seven, eight, nine and ten triangles respectively.\n\nChristopher Danielson developed a new set of five blocks, Twenty-First Century Pattern Blocks. The rhombus in this set has the same size as the blue rhombus in the traditional set. The dart and the 30°–60°–90° triangle have the same area, while the kite and the hexagon are twice that area. Like the traditional set, all the angles are multiples of 30°.\n"}
{"id": "33669630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33669630", "title": "Pew Center for Arts &amp; Heritage", "text": "Pew Center for Arts &amp; Heritage\n\nThe Pew Center for Arts & Heritage is a nonprofit grantmaking organization and knowledge-sharing hub for arts and culture in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, established in 2005. The Center receives funding from The Pew Charitable Trusts and makes project grants in two areas, Performance and Exhibitions & Public Interpretation, as well as awarding grants to individual artists through Pew Fellowships. The Center also makes Advancement grants, substantial awards to high-performing organizations seeking to make lasting improvements to their programming, audience engagement, and financial health. Its current mission is to \"support artists and organizations whose work is distinguished by excellence, imagination, and courage.\" In 2008, Paula Marincola was named the first executive director.\n\nIn 2005, The Pew Charitable Trusts brought seven programs—in dance, visual arts and exhibitions, heritage, cultural management, music, theater, and individual artist fellowships—together under one roof, as The Philadelphia Center for Arts & Heritage. The Center received its current name in 2008. These programs have since merged to form a single entity that awards grants throughout Greater Philadelphia. In 2013 the Center merged its Project Grant programs to create two new funding categories: Performance and Exhibitions & Public Interpretation. Since 1989, the Center has awarded over $134 million to artists and arts organizations in the Southeastern Pennsylvania region, which includes Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, and Philadelphia counties. The Center also makes Advancement grants to support high-performing institutions undertaking bold, innovative organizational initiatives.\n\nThe historical timeline for the Pew Center for Arts & Heritage is as follows:\n\n\nIn 2018 the Center awarded 45 grants totaling more than $8.7 million, ranging from $60,000 to $300,000.\nExamples of recently funded projects include:\n\nVisual art projects, including the commission of a performance and an exhibition by Israeli filmmaker and installation artist Yael Bartana at the Philadelphia Museum of Art; Temple Contemporary's commission of a project by artist Trenton Doyle Hancock; independent curator Kayla Romberger's publishers-in-residence program at Ulises bookshop; and a new augmented reality program by The Franklin Institute; a multimedia installation in the historic Beth Sholom synagogue by artist David Hartt;; and an exhibition of new visual works by artists Carolyn Lazard, Cameron Rowland, Sable Elyse Smith, and Martine Syms at the Institute of Contemporary Art.\n\nWorld and Philadelphia premiere performances, such as Orchestra 2001's performance of Frank Zappa's composition \"The Yellow Shark\"; Ars Nova Workshop's concert with composer and guitarist Nels Cline (member of the Grammy Award-winning band Wilco); Jumatatu Poe's new work exploring the dance style J-Sette; and the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts' production of Taylor Mac's Pulitzer Prize-nominated \"A 24-Decade History of Popular Music.\"New theatrical works also include THERE, Wilma Theater’s adaptation of a Etel Adnan’s book-length poem of a “meditation on conflict,” and Pig Iron Theatre Company’s commission of MacArthur Fellow and Tony Award-winning Mimi Lien’s SUPERTERRANEAN (working title). \n\nProjects that bring to light stories of communities, immigrants, and cultural traditions, including Bryn Mawr College's presentation of installation and performance works, sharing the narratives of Syrian citizens and refugees, by Lebanese artist Tania El Khoury; Philadelphia Photo Arts Center's mobile exhibition space created by South African photographer Zanele Muholi with 10 Philadelphia women; and Philadelphia Folklore Project's concert of new klezmer compositions, written and performed by three generations of women klezmer artists. Temple University’s Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection’s new graphic novel depicts underrepresented stories of talent, courage, and achievement from 20th-century African American Philadelphians.\n\nProjects that examine and interpret history in new ways, such as an interactive exhibition at the Mütter Museum revealing the personal stories and far-reaching impact of Philadelphia’s 1918-19 influenza pandemic; the commissioning of a new artwork memorializing the life and history of Dinah, an enslaved woman who lived at Stenton, now a historic house museum in Northwest Philadelphia; and a theatrical piece at the National Constitution Center shedding new light on the history of slavery in the United States, the legacy of the Civil War, and the passage of the 14th Amendment.\n\nEvents that engage Philadelphians as participants, including a newly commissioned dance work from the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company bringing 100 professional and amateur performers to the Mann Center for the Performing Arts’ outdoor stage; a multiyear project from Temple Contemporary, in collaboration with theater company 600 HIGHWAYMEN, that will pair 1,000 Philadelphians for one-on-one, guided conversations that will take place simultaneously in area homes to encourage empathetic listening; and a series of performances by Philadelphia-based artists, curated by choreographer Reggie Wilson and presented by Partners for Sacred Places, exploring the African-American religious experience and Philadelphia’s historic religious sites.\n\nPew Fellowships is a funding program of The Pew Center for Arts & Heritage, established by the Pew Charitable Trusts in 1991, which offers direct support to individual Philadelphia-area artists across disciplines, annually awarding up to 12 unrestricted grants of $75,000. The Pew Fellowships provide artists with an economic freedom that presents the opportunity to focus on their individual practices over a considerable period of time—to explore, to experiment, and to develop their work. The program aims to elevate the quality and raise the profile of individual artistic work in Philadelphia's five-county region, to create a strong community of Pew Fellows, and to help them achieve their artistic and career goals by connecting them to additional resources in the field.\n\nPew Fellowships are by nomination only, and selections are made through a two-tier peer review process. Applications are first reviewed by discipline-specific panels, which select finalists to be reviewed by a final interdisciplinary panel. Panelists are artists and arts and culture professionals from outside of the Philadelphia area; chosen for their expertise, they serve for one year. See a full history of Pew Fellowships recipients.\n\nAdvancement grants are awarded to high-performing cultural organizations in the five-county Philadelphia region, and are intended to support organizations seeking to make lasting improvements to their programming, audience engagement, and financial health.\n\nIn December 2013, the Center awarded its first Advancement grant to Opera Philadelphia, for a multi-year project that helped the organization undertake audience research to further enhance the impact of its programs, as well as bring opera to a variety of audiences in unconventional places and unexpected ways.\n\nIn 2014, the Center awarded an Advancement grant to the Philadelphia Zoo, for the next phase of its innovative trail system, which will add to an ever-changing and enriching experience for animals and audiences alike. (2014) \n\nIn 2015, the Center awarded Advancement grants to the Philadelphia Chamber Music Society (PCMS), Curtis Institute of Music, and the Philadelphia Museum of Art (PMA).\n\nIn 2016, the Center awarded an Advancement grant to The Franklin Institute.\n\nIn 2017, the Center awarded Advancement grants to Penn Museum and Settlement Music School.\n\nBeyond its work as a cultural grantmaker in Philadelphia, the Center has established itself as a hub for knowledge-sharing beyond the region, working in the areas of artistic expression and cultural interpretation. To engage in an international arts dialogue, the Center develops and hosts a range of activities, which concern artistic production, interpretation, and presentation. Activities include lectures, symposia, and workshops, and commissioned scholarship to explore critical issues in the fields served by the Center. The Center's website houses a series of online essays and interviews, along with information about Center-funded events and grantees.\n\nA multidisciplinary group of cultural practitioners, scholars, and consultants from around the world have contributed to the Center's ongoing knowledge-sharing activities, including Jérôme Bel, Romeo Castellucci, Tacita Dean, Anna Deavere Smith, Thelma Golden, Anna Halprin, Barkley L. Hendricks, Bill T. Jones, Miranda July, Tony Kushner, Claudia La Rocco, Ralph Lemon, Paul Schimmel, David Lang (composer), Boris Charmatz, Ann Hamilton (artist), and many more.\n\nDirector, playwright, and actor Ain Gordon served as the Center's inaugural Visiting Artist from 2011–13, returning for an additional term in 2018–2019.\n\nKristy Edmunds, Executive and Artistic Director, Center for the Art of Performance at the University of California, Los Angeles, served as the Center's first Visiting Scholar. Dr. Suse Anderson, Museum Studies professor at George Washington University, current president at Museum Computer Network, and host of the Best of the Web Awards-winning podcast Museopunks, is serving as the Center’s first 2018-19 Visiting Technologist. She leads an examination of forward-thinking technology work in the arts and culture field in 2018-2019.\n\nCenter publications include \"Pigeons on the Grass Alas: Contemporary Curators Talk About the Field\", \"The Sentient Archive: Bodies, Performance, and Memory\", and \"What Makes a Great Exhibition?\", an essay anthology that examines various components of exhibition-making, edited by Paula Marincola. \n\nIn 2011, the Center published \"Letting Go? Sharing Historical Authority in a User-Generated World\", an anthology of thought pieces and case studies related to shared historical authority in museums and public humanities projects. The anthology explores subfields such as oral history and digital humanities to interrogate the changing nature of expertise in the museum field, and considers co-curation as a method for encouraging public engagement. \n\nThe Center's \"danceworkbook\" series offers web-based publications that explore the choreographic process. In February 2015, the Center launched the fourth iteration of the series, \"A Steady Pulse: Restaging Lucinda Childs, 1963–78\". The multimedia web publication is a reexamination of the early dances of one of America's most influential contemporary choreographers, Lucinda Childs. It features Childs' extensive archives, scores, photos, videos, newly released essays, and a series of restagings performed in Philadelphia. In January 2017, the Center produced \"In Terms of Performance\" in collaboration with the Arts Research Center at the University of California, Berkeley. The online keywords anthology features essays and interviews from more than 50 prominent artists, curators, presenters, and scholars who reflect on common yet contested terms in interdisciplinary cultural practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4420535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4420535", "title": "Phaistos Disc decipherment claims", "text": "Phaistos Disc decipherment claims\n\nMany people have claimed to have deciphered the Phaistos Disc.\n\nThe claims may be categorized into linguistic decipherments, identifying the language of the inscription, and non-linguistic decipherments. A purely ideographical reading is not linguistic in the strict sense: while it may reveal the meaning of the inscription, it would not allow us to identify the underlying language.\n\nA large part of the claims are clearly pseudoscientific, if not bordering on the esoteric. Linguists are doubtful whether the inscription is sufficiently long to be unambiguously interpreted. It is possible that one of these decipherments is correct, and that, without further material in the same script, we will never know which. Mainstream consensus tends towards the assumption of a syllabic script, possibly mixed with ideogram, like the known scripts of the epoch (Egyptian hieroglyphs, Anatolian hieroglyphs, Linear B).\n\nSome approaches attempt to establish a connection with known scripts, either the roughly contemporary Cretan hieroglyphs or Linear A native to Crete, or Egyptian or Anatolian hieroglyphics. Solutions postulating an independent Aegean script have also been proposed.\n\n\nHempls readings of side A: A-po-su-la-r\nke-si-po e-pe-t e-e-se a-po-le-is-tu te-pe-ta-po. (Lo, Xipho the\nprophetess dedicates spoils from a spoiler of the prophetess.) Te-u-s,\na-po-ku-ra. (Zeus guard us.) Vi-ka-na a-po-ri-pi-na la-ri-si-ta\na-po-ko-me-nu so-to. (In silence put aside the most dainty portions of\nthe still unroasted animal.) A-te-ne-Mi-me-ra pu-l. (Athene Minerva,\nbe gracious.) A-po-vi-k. (Silence!) A-po-te-te-na-ni-si tu-me. (The\nvictims have been put to death.) A-po-vi-k. (Silence!)\n\n\nJean Faucounau, 1975 considers the script as the original invention of a Cycladic and maritime Aegean people, the proto-Ionians, who had picked up the idea of a syllabic acrophonic script from Egypt at the time of the VIth Dynasty. He interprets the text as \"proto-Ionic\" Greek in syllabic writing.\n\nReading A-side first, inwards, he deciphers a (funerary) hymn to one Arion, child of Argos, destroyer of Iasos. The language is a Greek dialect, written with considerable phonological ambiguities, comparable to the writing of Mycenean Greek in Linear B, hand-crafted by Faucounau to suit his reading, among other things postulating change of digamma to \"y\" and loss of labiovelars, but retention of Indo-European \"-sy-\" (in the genitive singular \"-osyo\", Homeric \"-oio\").\nFaucounau has gathered evidence, which he asserts shows the existence of proto-Ionians as early as the Early Bronze Age and of a proto-Ionic language with the required characteristics during the Late Bronze Age. He has presented this evidence in several papers and summarized it in his two books, of 1999 and 2001.\n\nThe text begins\n\nFaucounau's solution was critically reviewed by Duhoux (2000), who in particular was sceptical about the consonantal sign \"s\" (D12) in the otherwise syllabic script, which appears word-finally in the sentence particle \"kas\", but not in nominatives like \"ahamos\". Most syllabaries would either omit \"s\" in both places, or use a syllable beginning with \"s\" in both places.\n\nAchterberg et al., 2004 interpreted the text as Anatolian hieroglyphic, reading inwards, A-side first. The research group proposes a 14th-century date, based on a dating of PH 1, the associated Linear A tablet. The resulting text is a Luwian document of land ownership, addressed to one \"na-sa-tu\" (\"Nestor\"; Dative \"na-sa-ti\") of \"hi-ya-wa\" (Ahhiyawa). Toponyms read are \"pa-ya-tu\" (Phaistos), \"ra-su-ta\" (Lasithi), \"mi-SARU\" (Mesara), \"ku-na-sa\" (Knossos), \"sa-har-wa\" (Scheria), \"ri-ti-na\" (Rhytion). Another personal name read is \"i-du-ma-na\" (\"Idomeneus\"), governor of Mesara.\n\nThe strokes are read as a 46th glyph, expressing word-final \"ti\". The text begins\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13279226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13279226", "title": "Philadelphia University (Jordan)", "text": "Philadelphia University (Jordan)\n\nPhiladelphia University is a university in Amman, Jordan.\n\nPhiladelphia Private University was established in 1989 as a national higher educational institution. The university is located 20 km to the north of Amman, on the road to Jerash. Philadelphia University has eight faculties and a student body of more than six thousand students. Its academic staff consists of over 300 faculty members, who hold degrees from a wide range of distinguished universities.\n\nThe name \"Philadelphia\" is derived from the cultural heritage of Jordan. It is the former name of Amman, given to it by Ptolemaeus Philadelphus in the year 285 B.C. This phase of the history of Jordan is captured in the Hellenistic columns in the university's logo. The flag places the logo on a white background.\n\nPU follows the credit-hour system.\nThe academic year consists of two regular semesters, and an optional summer session:\nThe Fall Semester: Early October to mid-January.\nThe Spring Semester: Early February to early June.\nThe Summer Session: Late June to late August.\nMedium of Instruction:\nEnglish and Arabic.\nPhiladelphia University awards\nB.A and B.Sc. degrees in eight different faculties.\nThe normal academic load for students\nRanges between 12 and 18 credit hours per semester.\n\nThe University is ranked 1,994 worldwide, and 31 in the Arab world, and 4 on the level of all Jordanian universities and the first in the Jordanian private universities. According to the Webometrics Rating.\n\nPhiladelphia University is currently organized in 8 faculties:\n\nThe Faculty of Engineering was found out from the beginning of establishing the university. It contains 24 laboratories provided with the latest devices and technology.\n\nThe Faculty of Engineering is divided into five departments:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32115315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32115315", "title": "Pimsleur Language Programs", "text": "Pimsleur Language Programs\n\nPimsleur Language Programs () is an American language learning company that develops and publishes courses based on the Pimsleur method.\n\nDr. Paul Pimsleur, a professor and expert in applied linguistics and a founding member of the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL), wrote the original 5 courses: Speak & Read Essential Greek (1963), Speak & Read Essential French (1964), Speak & Read Essential Spanish (1966), German Compact (1967), and Twi developed for the Peace Corps (1971). The programs were originally called \"A Tapeway Program\".\n\nStarting in 1969-70, having tried unsuccessfully to market the programs, Pimsleur gave them to Charles A.S. and Beverly Heinle at The Center for Curriculum Development in Philadelphia. The courses were repackaged and marketed as \"CCD/Tapeway Programs\". In 1974, Charles Heinle bought the rights to Pimsleur and set up Heinle & Heinle Enterprises. In the 1980s, Heinle opened the Cassette Learning Centers, a stand in the Harvard Coop, in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Prospective users were invited to sit down and experience \"The Pimsleur Tape\". \"The Pimsleur Tapes\" were published by Heinle & Heinle Enterprises based in Concord, MA.\n\nIn 1983 Charles Heinle introduced SyberVision Systems founder Steven DeVore to the Pimsleur Russian program. DeVore, who had used a similar method to learn Finnish, exclusively licensed the Pimsleur programs. DeVore sold the programs in SyberVision's catalogs that were placed in the backseat pockets of major international air carriers and also mailed to 3 million SyberVision customers every month. SyberVision also produced and successfully sold Pimsleur programs via an infomercial that featured Beverly Pimsleur. SyberVision marketed the Pimsleur programs until 1997 before the license was sold to Simon & Schuster.\n\nIn 1995, Simon & Schuster took on distribution to bookstores. Before Heinle & Heinle Enterprises sold Pimsleur to Simon & Schuster in 1997, they added 27 new languages to the Pimsleur catalog. Since the acquisition, Simon & Schuster Audio has added another 27 languages. Pimsleur's catalog currently stands at 59 languages and over 200 courses. The courses are still produced in Concord, MA and are available as digital audio downloads, CDs, and select languages are now available in interactive software format.\n\nIn 2005, digital editions of some languages were made available through various resellers.\n\nIn 2008, Pimsleur's first children's line, Speak Spanish with Dora & Diego, was released in coordination with Nickelodeon's Nick Jr.\n\nIn 2008, Playaway was licensed to distribute the entire Pimsleur line to the military on pre-loaded players.\n\nIn 2010, Pimsleur donated its Haitian Creole course for free to relief and charity workers after the devastating earthquake in Haiti.\n\nIn 2010, Pimsleur partnered with the USO, The Boston Foundation and Playaway to produce Pashto and Dari courses for U.S. troops serving in and being deployed to Afghanistan. This course is available for free to all military personnel. Operation Speak Easy was funded by a Boston-area philanthropist and Pimsleur-enthusiast.\n\nIn 2010, Pimsleur Digital line was relaunched in DRM-free format and at a new low price.\n\nIn 2011, Pimsleur donated 8 hours of its Japanese course to support aid agencies and volunteers in the wake of the tsunami disaster.\n\nIn 2012, Pimsleur released a new interactive software version of their Spanish, German, French, and Italian courses called Pimsleur Unlimited.\n\nIn 2013, Pimsleur celebrated its 50th anniversary with the launch of a new blog Pimsleur Speaks: On Language, Learning, and Culture.\n\nIn 2013, Pimsleur donated 15 lessons of its Tagalog course to support aid agencies and volunteers in the wake of Typhoon Haiyan.\n\nIn 2015, Pimsleur released 3 additional Unlimited languages (Mandarin, Portuguese, and Russian) in its interactive software format.\n\nIn 2016, Pimsleur made its Unlimited product line available as digital downloads worldwide.\n\nPimsleur Language Programs is owned by Simon & Schuster Audio, a division of Simon & Schuster, which is part of CBS Corporation.\n\n\nPimsleur Language Programs' courses are available in the following languages:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "867159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867159", "title": "Regional language", "text": "Regional language\n\nA regional language is a language spoken in an area of a sovereign state, whether it be a small area, a federated state or province, or some wider area.\n\nInternationally, for the purposes of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, \"\"regional or minority languages\" means languages that are: \"\n\nRecognition of regional or minority languages must not be confused with recognition as an official language.\n\nThere are many cases when a regional language can claim greater numbers of speakers than certain languages which happen to be official languages of sovereign states. For example, Catalan (a regional language of Spain, Italy and France, albeit the national language of Andorra) has more speakers than Finnish or Danish. A similar situation exists in China, where Wu, spoken in southern Jiangsu, northern, and the general area of Shanghai Zhejiang by more than 90 million speakers, is spoken natively by more speakers than French; Yue Chinese, a Chinese regional variety spoken in Guangdong, Hong Kong and nearby areas in China with more than 60 million local and overseas speakers (North America, parts of Malaysia), outnumbers Italian in number of speakers. Dialects of the Min dialect group have over 70 million speakers, mainly in Fujian and in nearby Taiwan, but also in the Southeast Asian countries of Malaysia and Singapore.\n\nIn some cases, a regional language may be closely related to the state's main language or official language. For example:\n\n\nIn other cases, a regional language may be very different from the state's main language or official language. For example:\n\n\nAn official language of a country may also be spoken as a regional language in a region of a neighbouring country. For example:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12764438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12764438", "title": "Rich Assessment Tasks", "text": "Rich Assessment Tasks\n\nA Rich Assessment Task or R.A.T is a closed set of questions that allows for some imagination or communication of ideas by students. They are commonly used in math by teachers who have a deep understanding of their students. They provide no use in rating students according to the VELS Ratings System.\n\n"}
{"id": "33869678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33869678", "title": "Robert McCulloch (priest)", "text": "Robert McCulloch (priest)\n\nRobert McCulloch SSC is an Australian priest and member of the Missionary Society of St. Columban, who served in Pakistan from 1978 to 2011. He was decorated by the Government of Pakistan for his services to health and education in 2012.\n\nMcCulloch was born in 1946 in Alexandra, Victoria, to Bruce John McCulloch and Jean Frances Crowe. He was educated at St Patrick's School, Mentone, Our Lady of the Assumption Parish Primary School, Cheltenham, and St Bede's College, Mentone.\n\nMcCulloch entered the Society of St Columban in 1964, spending his initial year of probation in Sassafras, Victoria. He began his studies at St Columban's Seminary in Sydney in 1965 and was ordained a priest in 1970. In 1976 he received a Master of Arts in Church History from The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. Since 1978 he has worked to increase the education and basic health care of the poor and mainly non-Christian people of Pakistan.\n\nMcCulloch has served in two Diocese of Hyderabad parishes: Kotri, a rural area east of Karachi; and Machar Colony, a community of 300 Catholic families in the slums of Hyderabad. After a spell in Badin, he started working with the semi-nomadic Hindu tribe of Parkari Kohli in Tharparkar District. During this period, McCulloch helped the tribe design an alphabet for their language, for which he called on two linguists for their help. After the local population had opted for using the Sindhi alphabet, with a few minor changes, people gathered proverbs and sayings and launched the first Parkari Kohli newspaper, \"Prem Paracha\". In this he helped to save the native language and culture.\n\nMcCulloch has had as a goal of his ministry the improvement of health care in the country. He sits on the administrative board for St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Hyderabad. He has established an outreach medical program at the hospital to provide vaccinations for infants and children, medical care for their mothers, and diagnosis and care of tuberculosis patients.\n\nMcCulloch has also developed schools in Pakistan that are now attended by more than 550 children.He has chaired the Board of Governors for the Centre of Academic Excellence, a project he initiated in 2007 to provide educational, spiritual, moral and personal formation for 100 Catholic boys.\n\nMcCulloch has lectured at the National Catholic Institute of Theology in Karachi, Pakistan in liturgy and church history.\n\nMcCulloch has established a palliative care unit. It is the first home-based palliative care unit for the terminally ill in Pakistan. \nThe St. Vincent de Paul Society of Victoria, through its overseas development initiatives, is providing ongoing financial support for McCulloch's health and educational programs.\n\nIn October 2012, the head of the Vatican's Pontifical Council for Promoting the New Evangelization, Archbishop Rino Fisichella launched Parts I and II of the Catholic Catechism in Urdu. McCulloch was involved in its translation from 2004 to 2012. Along with Emmanuel Neno this work was completed in 2014. The Pontifical Council for Promoting the New Evangelization has approved the Urdu translation and authorised its publication. The translation took 13 years to complete.\n\nOn 15 February 2012, the President of Pakistan approved conferment of \"Sitara\" class of the Nishan-e-Quaid-i-Azam on McCulloch for his services to Pakistan in health and education.\n\nOn 25 March 2012, more than 600 people gathered at St Anthony's Church in Karachi for a special Mass to celebrate Sister John Berchmans Conway RJM and McCulloch receiving the country's highest civilian award.\n\nMcCulloch has been transferred to Rome and is serving as the Procurator General of the Society of St Columban.\n\nOn 9 May 2012, McCulloch was inducted into the St Bede's Old Collegians Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2898309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2898309", "title": "Ruth Simmons", "text": "Ruth Simmons\n\nRuth Simmons (born Ruth Jean Stubblefield; July 3, 1945) is the current President of Prairie View A&M University. She previously served as the 18th president of Brown University, the first African American president of an Ivy League institution. Simmons was elected Brown's first female president in November 2000, assuming that office in the fall of 2001. She also held appointments as a professor in the Departments of Comparative Literature and Africana Studies. In 2002, \"Newsweek\" selected her as a Ms. Woman of the Year, while in 2001, \"Time\" named her as America's best college president. According to a March 2009 poll by \"The Brown Daily Herald\", Simmons had more than an 80% approval rating among Brown undergraduates. Prior to Brown, she headed Smith College, a Seven Sisters and the largest women's college in the United States, beginning in 1995.\n\nOn September 15, 2011, Simmons announced that she would step down from the Brown presidency at the end of the academic year, June 30, 2012. She retired to Texas where she had been born and raised. On June 19, 2017, she agreed to step in as the interim president of Prairie View A&M University, a member of the Texas A&M University System and a historically black institution, assuming the office on July 1, 2017. On December 4, 2017, she was officially named the eighth president of Prairie View A&M University. She is the first woman elected to serve as president of Prairie View A&M where her older brother was a basketball student-athlete.\n\nSimmons was born in Grapeland, Texas, the last of 12 children of Fanny (\"née\" Campbell) and Isaac Stubblefield. Her father was a sharecropper, until the family moved to Houston during her school years. Her paternal grandfather descends partly from the Benza and Kota people, slaves from Gabon, while her maternal line is traced back to the indigenous peoples of the Caribbean who were enslaved by the Spaniards.\n\nShe earned her bachelor's degree, on scholarship, from Dillard University in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1967. She went on to earn her master's and doctorate in Romance literature from Harvard University in 1970 and 1973, respectively.\n\nSimmons was an assistant professor of French at the University of New Orleans from 1973-1976 and Assistant Dean of the UNO College of Liberal Arts from 1975-76. She moved to California State University, Northridge in 1977 as administrative coordinator of its NEH Liberal Studies Project. From 1978-79, she was acting director of CSU-Northridge's International Programs and visiting associate professor of Pan-African Studies.\n\nSimmons moved to the University of Southern California in 1979 as assistant dean of graduate studies, and then as associate dean of graduate studies. She moved to Princeton University in 1983 and served as assistant dean of faculty and then associate dean of faculty from 1986 to 1990. Simmons served as provost at Spelman College from 1990 to 1991 and returned to Princeton as its vice provost from 1992 to 1995.\n\nIn 1995 Simmons became the first African-American woman to head a major college or university when she was selected as president of Smith College, which she led until 2001. As president of Smith College, Simmons started the first engineering program in a U.S. woman's college.\n\nSimmons became president of Brown in October 2001, succeeding Gordon Gee. At Brown, she completed a $1.4 billion initiative - the largest in Brown's history - known as \"Boldly Brown: The Campaign for Academic Enrichment\" in order to enhance Brown's academic programs. In 2004, former Brown student Sidney E. Frank made the largest aggregate monetary contribution to Brown in its history in the amount of $120 million. The Frank gifts were principally devoted to scholarship assistance to Brown students and to Brown's programs in the sciences.\n\nBy early 2007, philanthropist Warren Alpert who made a similarly generous contribution to strengthen the programs of The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University in the amount of $100 million, matching the core portion of the Sidney Frank gift to Brown. As reported in a May 22, 2009, press release, Brown chancellor Thomas J. Tisch announced early accomplishment of the $1.4 billion fundraising campaign and the continued pursuit of specific subsidiary goals in support of endowments for student scholarships, the Brown faculty and internationalization programs through the originally planned campaign completion date of December 31, 2010.\n\nIn a 2006 orientation meeting with parents, Simmons denied interest in the presidency of Harvard University, which at the time was headed by an interim president, Derek Bok. Nevertheless, a 2007 \"New York Times\" article, featuring a photograph of Simmons, reported that the Harvard Corporation, responsible for selecting the university's replacement for former president Lawrence Summers, had been given a list of \"potential candidates\" that included her name.\n\nIn August 2007, Simmons was invited to deliver the 60th Annual Reading of the historic 1790 George Washington at the Synagogue in Newport, Rhode Island in response to Moses Seixas on the subject of religious pluralism.\n\nIn September 2011, Simmons announced that she would step down from her position as Brown President at the end of the 2011-12 academic year, originally saying she would remain at Brown as a professor of comparative literature and Africana studies. She was succeeded as Brown President on June 30, 2012, by Christina Paxson.\n\nSimmons earned annual compensation of over $300,000 from Goldman Sachs (on top of her annual salary from Brown of over $500,000) while serving on the Goldman board of directors during the late-2000s financial crisis; in addition, she left the Goldman board (which she had joined in 2000) in 2009 with over $4.3 million in Goldman stock. During her term on Goldman's board, she also served on the compensation committee of Goldman's ten-person board, which decided how large Goldman executives' post-crash bonuses would be; these bonuses included a $68 million bonus for the company's chairman and CEO, Lloyd C. Blankfein, in 2007 and a $9 million bonus in 2009 after Goldman received money in the federal TARP bailout. The revelations of Simmons's role received intense criticism from both alumni and students, with a then-sophomore stating that Simmons's actions \"brought shame on the university.\" Simmons was cited in the 2010 film \"Inside Job\", as an example of the conflicts of interest between university economics departments and deregulation of financial institutions.\n\nAs the wealth that the founding Brown family contributed to the university was based in part on the triangular slave trade, in 2003, Simmons established the University Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice to examine this complex history and make recommendations for how the university might approach the relevant issues. The \"Report of the Brown University Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice\" was subsequently published. On February 16, 2007, at an event celebrating the 200-year anniversary of the passage of the Slave Trade Act of 1807 and the involvement of Cambridge University alumni William Wilberforce, Thomas Clarkson and William Pitt the Younger, Simmons delivered a lecture at St. John's College, Cambridge, entitled \"Hidden in Plain Sight: Slavery and Justice in Rhode Island\". Also in February 2007, Brown University published its official \"Response to the Report of the Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice\" following completion of the historic inquiry undertaken by the committee appointed by Simmons. The bicentenary of the British abolition of the slave trade was also commemorated at Oxford University, notably at Rhodes House.\n\nIn October 2007, Simmons appointed David W. Kennedy, the former Manley O. Hudson Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, as vice president for international affairs. In addition to supporting the leadership of the Watson Institute for International Studies, the new university officer will lead a multidisciplinary advanced research project in the field of global law, governance and social thought to strengthen the University's international work in the social sciences.\n\nAs an additional element of Simmons' leadership of Brown's international efforts, Brown and Banco Santander of Spain inaugurated an annual series of International Advanced Research Institutes to convene a rising generation of scholars from emerging and developing countries at Brown in a signing ceremony on November 13, 2008, at the John Hay Library between Brown provost David Kertzer and Emilio Botin, chairman of Banco Santander. As noted by Simmons: \"To be at the forefront of research today means being in conversation with global peers. The Brown Institutes provide exciting opportunities to encounter new ideas, build collegiate relationships and enrich faculty development for young scholars and teachers from around the world\".\n\nIn March 2010, Simmons traveled to India as part of a major program called the Year of India which is dedicated to the improvement of understanding of Indian history, politics, education and culture among Brown students and faculty.\n\nSimmons was invited to participate in meetings of global leaders organized by the Clinton Global Initiative and the World Economic Forum at Davos.\n\nSimmons is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and the Council on Foreign Relations. She has served as chair of the Council of Ivy Group Presidents and is an honorary fellow of Selwyn College, Cambridge.\n\nSimmons is involved in many social and civic organizations, including Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority.\n\nSimmons also serves on the boards of Texas Instruments and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. She announced in 2007 that she would not seek re-election to the board of directors of Pfizer after serving on the board for 10 years.\n\nOn June 17, 2009, The White House announced that President Barack Obama had appointed Dr. Simmons to the President's Commission on White House Fellowships. In February 2010, Simmons received a BET Honors award for her service as president of Brown University. She accepted the Honor along with other nominees, including Sean Combs, Queen Latifah, and Whitney Houston at a ceremony in Washington, D.C. In 2010, she was awarded the Ellis Island Medal of Honor for her many humanitarian efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4627454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627454", "title": "Switch access", "text": "Switch access\n\nMany people with severe physical or cognitive impairment use one or more switches to access computers. A switch is an assistive technology device that replaces the need to use a computer keyboard or a mouse.\n\nSwitches come in a variety of shapes and sizes depending on the action used to activate them (such as sip-puff, pushing, pulling, pressing, blinking or squeezing). Switches also vary in their colour and aesthetics. For push or press switches, the amount of force required to operate them varies or in some cases can be adjusted. Some switches may only require a touch (not even a press), some may be designed to be kicked. \nA switch can be operated by almost any body part that is able to produce consistent and voluntary movement..\n\nA switch cannot be plugged directly into a computer. Instead a Switch Interface is required to bridge the gap between the switch and the computer's USB, serial, or PS/2 port.\n\nSwitches can be suitable for people with cognitive difficulties, developmental delays and physical limitations. In the simplest use they are a clear and simple way to demonstrate action/reaction often referred to as cause and effect. In the more complex use they could be the means to control mobility or interact with the environment.\nThere are a variety of motivating switch activities that can be used to assess and develop a person's understanding of choice and timing.\n\nSwitches can be linked to a variety of devices, for example: Augmentative and Alternative Communication devices, switch adapted toys, switch interfaces for computer access, SMART Technology, sensory room equipment and environmental control devices\n\nThe smallest amount of interaction that can be provided with a switch is binary switch input, as holding down the switch for a certain amount of time may be impossible for a sip and puff device or painful for someone with arthritis. \nSome users will prefer to use one switch, others will prefer to use two and sometimes more. For users who are using their switches to access simple activities an additional switch brings about an option of choice. It also allows two users to work collaboratively or to play against each other.\n\nConsidering multiple switch access is important for users accessing more advanced activities through switch access scanning. This is usually determined by their physical capabilities. A single switch requires less physical control and is usually less tiring to access but it reduces scanning options and usually leads to a slower rate of input. Single-switch scanning also requires much greater concentration. Two-switch scanning enables a range of scanning options, including row-and-column and overscan. These can greatly increase input rates and can make using a computer or electronic assistive device far more comfortable and efficient.\n"}
{"id": "2380028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2380028", "title": "Universidad Francisco Marroquín", "text": "Universidad Francisco Marroquín\n\nFrancisco Marroquín University (Spanish: \"Universidad Francisco Marroquín\"), also known by the abbreviation UFM, is a private, secular university in Guatemala City, Guatemala. It describes its mission as \"to teach and disseminate the ethical, legal, and overall economic principles of a society of free and responsible persons.\"\n\nAccording to Milton Friedman, it is \"one of the leading universities in Latin America.\"\n\nIt was founded in 1971 by Manuel F. Ayau, known as Muso. Its namesake is Francisco Marroquín, an early bishop of Guatemala and translator of Central American languages, but the university does not follow any of his teachings or philosophies. Started by members of Center for Economic and Social Studies with $40,000 and 125 students, UFM counts 2700 undergraduate students and 1500 graduate students as of 2009. The philosophy statement says that \"universities need to place themselves beyond the conflicts of their time so that science and academic freedom – which humankind will need at all times – may be preserved.\"\n\nIn Guatemala, as in most of the rest of Latin America, the educational system concentrates students in their academic or professional discipline from the time of admission. Following secondary school, students are admitted to a particular school or department and, beginning the first year, they follow a prescribed program leading to a degree.\n\nLicenciatura degree (Licentiate): in most of Latin America, the degree most commonly awarded to undergraduate students is the licenciatura. Traditionally, it includes several more academic credits than does a B.A. or a B.S.\n\nMaster's degree disciplines: business administration (MBA); virtual business administration (online MBA); real estate project management (MAPI); entrepreneurial economics; international political economy; international relations, finance and taxation (MFIN); management of human resources; social sciences.\nMaster's degree in the following medical specialties: internal medicine, ophthalmology, pediatrics, radiology.\n\nDoctoral degree disciplines: economics, law, social sciences.\n\n\nThe Ludwig von Mises Library has 100,000 visitors annually and is the most extensive collection of works on liberty in Latin America. There is a collection of the private libraries of prominent intellectuals and collectors:\n\nAt the beginning of the 2000s, the library started offering access to digital resources. It is subscribed to other services in this area including EBSCOHost databases, Oxford Scholarship Online, xRefer Plus and UpToDate, MDConsult and others.\n\nThe library was chosen among all the libraries around the World within the 10 libraries to receive the Elsevier donation of 670 titles.\nThe library site received the \"Arroba de Oro\" award in Guatemala for the best educational website.\n\nThe Henry Hazlitt Center co-ordinates the courses of Economic Process (I, II and III) and Social Philosophy (Hayek and the Austrian School) that are offered to all undergraduate students in all schools. It also offers seminars and lectures for professors in order to improve their academic and pedagogic skills.\n\nThe Center for the Study of Capitalism was founded in 2009 with the support of the university as a private, secular, coeducational, nonresidential, nonprofit center of study. It organizes socratic dialogue sessions with high school students and young entrepreneurs to study philosophical values as guides to excellence in thinking and action. Since its foundation, more than 1000 participants have joined philosophical discussions.\n\nThe Arboretum awakens and cultivates the love for nature and conservation of plants and animals in the campus. The land of the university is a remnant of the Montano Forest of pine and Encino trees that used to cover Guatemala. The beautiful gardens have been carefully designed to integrate native and exotic species, which have been admired by students and visitors. Since the beginning, preservation of the forest was a priority, to the point that the library's architectural design of the buildings was done to keep the trees as intact as possible.\n\nNew Media Department – Creation, Implementation & Effective Management of Digital Resources – The New Media Department specializes in streaming audio and video conferences in English and Spanish on topics related to classical liberal thought.\nSampler:\nThe New Media digital library includes 1,500 hours of digitized and indexed educational material, and receives over 1000 visitors daily from around the world.\n\nThe Museo Popol Vuh Museum offers its visitors a unique journey through Guatemalan history, illustrated by one of the best collections of prehispanic and colonial art in the country. The museum is a scientific, private, nonprofit organization for the conservation, investigation and the popularization of Guatemala's cultural and archeological heritage.\n\nLienzo de Quauhquechollan is a large Nahua painting on cotton cloth (lienzo) that belongs to the pre-Hispanic tradition of documenting stories of migrations and conquests within a geographic context. Considered the first map of Guatemala, it is one of the few sources from the 16th century that tell of the military campaigns of Jorge de Alvarado in 1527. A digitally-restored copy and an animated recreation of the story, exhibited at the campus, are based on the research done by Dutch archaeologist Florine Asselbergs.\n\nThe ITA Scholarship Program (an acronym for Impulso al Talento Academico) stands for \"promotion of academic talent.\" The program grants scholarships for undergraduate degrees to the poorest, most highly qualified and most motivated students. The scholarship covers full tuition and fees, room and board, medical insurance, and a stipend for public transportation, books, and basic personal expenses.\n\nFollowing Manuel Ayau, in 1972, the first class of students that entered to the university presented a pair of bronzed shoes to the founding rector, Ayau, as a joke. Since then the shoes are kept at the rector's office; as a way to remember to follow Ayau's steps and those of the founders of the university on the road to freedom.\n\nHonoring the champions of freedom, it has awarded \"honoris causa\" doctorates to scientists, intellectuals, businessmen, artists and others who have contributed to the sciences, the arts, the world of business and the cause of freedom. Four Nobel Prize winners have accepted an honorary degree awarded by the university: Friedrich Hayek; Milton Friedman, James M. Buchanan, and Vernon L. Smith.\n\nAt the House of Freedom, the library is named alter Ludwig von Mises; there are the Friedrich A. Hayek Auditorium and the Milton Friedman Auditorium. The department in charge of the courses of Social Philosophy and Economic Process is named after Henry Hazlitt. There is a Freedom Plaza and a terrace named after Rose Friedman.\n\nMises's birthday, September 29, is celebrated by Professor Joseph Keckeissen's students with a Viennese party by the second semester of every year. It includes theatrical presentations, singing and dancing. Keckeissen attended Mises's Seminar in New York City and he began the theatrical tradition in the 1980s with the Guttenberg Society.\n\nCommencement ceremony – On May and November, UFM celebrates commencement ceremonies. During these the graduating students receive their titles and diplomas. On that occasion the Board of Directors award the honoris causa doctorates.\n\nHonor graduates ceremony – The night before the commencement ceremony, at UFM, they celebrate a ceremony and a cocktail party in praise of those students which graduate with honors, and to celebrate excellence (in Spanish). The honors awarded are Cum Laude, for those who obtained grades between 85 and 90: Magna Cum Laude, for those who obtained grades between 91 and 94; and Summa Cum Laude, for those who accumulated an average between 95 and 100.\n\nInaugural Lesson – The Inaugural Lesson enjoys a long academic tradition. At Universidad Francisco Marroquín it is a Commencement ceremony and an opportunity to get together the faculty and the students around the philosophy of freedom presented by a local or visiting professor. The first Inaugural Lesson, at UFM, was presented by vicerector emeritus Rigoberto Juárez-Paz, and it was about Plato's Academy.\n\nMarroquín's bust, as the university is named after Bishop Marroquín, because he was the first prelate ordained in America in the colonial times. During his tenure as bishop, Marroquín took care of the rights of indigenous people and helped fund the first university in Central America. Marroquín's bust was donated to the university by Trustee Félix Montes in January 1975. The sculptor is José Nicolás. However, the university is nondenominational.\n\nHayek's bust, as he was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1974. He visited 1977, when he was awarded an \"honoris causa\" doctorate in social sciences. The House of Freedom, the auditorium of the Academic Building, is named for Hayek. His bust is located at the Ludwig von Mises Library and was donated by Walter S. Morris, of Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1991.\n\nMises's bust, as he was a luminary of the Austrian School. He visited Guatemala when he was invited by the Centro de Estudios Económico-Sociales and supported for the foundation of the university. His bust was donated by the class of 1975 by the School of Business.\n\nThe Atlas Libertas is a bas relief placed on the main façade of the UFM Business School. A high-relief sculpture of a human figure supporting the universe seen from the back from head to hip. The universe is represented by a series of semicircles (abstract planets and gear mechanisms). The sculpture is made of brass plate with a cyan-colored finish, resembling oxidized copper.\n\nThe Central Garden (renamed the Garden of Manuel Ayau) ismodeled after a Greek amphitheater and hosts the commencement ceremonies. The bust of Marroquin is the focus of the garden. In 2011, after the death of founder Ayau, it was renamed to honor him.\n\nThe Academic Building's Garden is surrounded by classrooms and the administration offices, seven stories high. Nevertheless, with an air of a Japanese garden and pond, it is an oasis of tranquility, removed from the exuberance of the campus itself.\n\nThere is a fountain at the Ludwig von Mises Library, near the Central Garden.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37783653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37783653", "title": "Vanderbilt exoskeleton", "text": "Vanderbilt exoskeleton\n\nThe Vanderbilt exoskeleton, marketed as Indego, is a powered exoskeleton designed by the Center for Intelligent Mechatronics at Vanderbilt University in the U.S. state of Tennessee. It is intended to assist paraplegics, stroke victims and other paralyzed or semi-paralyzed people to walk independently. Motion and control technologies manufacturer Parker Hannifin is funding further development, and plans to release the first commercial version of the exoskeleton in 2015.\n\nIn 2012, there were estimated to be over 270,000 Americans with long-term spinal cord injuries, of whom around 21 percent suffer from complete paraplegia. The lifetime cost of care and lost productivity for each paraplegic ranges from US$1.4 million to $2.2 million. However, since the late 2000s, robotics and battery technology have become sufficiently advanced to make wearable walking assistance devices viable.\n\nThe Vanderbilt exoskeleton weighs and can support users weighing up to . It is strapped to the user's legs, and uses an onboard computer to detect the user's movements, which are then supported and amplified by battery-powered motors in the exoskeleton's hip and knee joints. It also uses functional electrical stimulation to enervate the muscles of paralyzed patients, improving their strength and circulation, and can be quickly disassembled for removal. It can be used interchangeably with a wheelchair, and can be donned without assistance, allowing disabled individuals significantly greater independence. It is compact enough for a person to sit in a normal chair without needing to remove the exoskeleton.\n\nVanderbilt University began testing its exoskeleton with paraplegics and medical experts at a rehabilitation center in Atlanta, Georgia, in 2010. In October 2012, Parker Hannifin signed an exclusive licensing agreement with Vanderbilt University for the right to develop and manufacture a commercial version of the exoskeleton, which it plans to release under the name Indego. Whereas current commercial exoskeletons can cost as much as $140,000, Parker Hannifin hopes to exploit its manufacturing capabilities and the Vanderbilt model's lightweight design to ensure that the Indego is significantly cheaper. In March 2014, Parker Hannifin entered into clinical trial agreements for the exoskeleton with several major medical rehabilitation centres. In December 2014, Parker Hannifin invested in Freedom Innovations, a California-based prosthetic technology company with which it had a pre-existing partnership, to further the development of Indego. Following regulatory approval, Parker Hannifin plans to release Indego in Europe in 2015 and in the United States in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29509885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29509885", "title": "William Henry Leeds", "text": "William Henry Leeds\n\nWilliam Henry Leeds (1786, Norfolk - 1866) was an English architectural critic and journalist.\n\nLeeds was a frequent contributor to the \"Foreign Quarterly Review\" in the 1830s, writing for them on Russian literature as well as architecture. In the 1840s he wrote for the \"Westminster Review\". From 1839 to 1854 he edited the \"Civil Engineer's and Architect's Journal\", and from 1855 to 1856 edited \"Land and Building News\".\n\nHe translated Georg Moller's \"Memorials of German Gothic architecture\" and edited a revised edition of \"Decorative Part of Civil Architecture\" by William Chambers.\n\n"}
{"id": "16335898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16335898", "title": "Working-Class Studies Association", "text": "Working-Class Studies Association\n\nThe Working-Class Studies Association (WCSA) is a non-profit association that helps develop and support research and pedagogy on the topic of working-class life and cultures. Members are located in countries across the globe, and they include poets, scholars, activists, teachers, students, journalists, artists, small press publishers, and others interested in building the field of working-class studies. The association holds an annual conference and other events, promotes the field through a variety of awards, and publishes \"The Journal of Working-Class Studies\".\n\nThe origins of the Working-Class Studies Association can be traced to the Center for Working-Class Studies at Youngstown State University in Ohio and the Center for Study of Working Class Life at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. A complementary series of biennial conferences sponsored by these centers fostered a community of scholars, activists, artists, publishers, and journalists invested in the study of and advocacy for working-class life, culture and interests.\n\nThe Youngstown Center for Working-Class Studies (CWCS) was the first multi-disciplinary academic center in the US devoted to the study of working-class culture broadly defined. What distinguished the center was an interdisciplinary approach to the study of working-class issues. The center was launched in 1996 after a group of Youngstown faculty organized two interdisciplinary conferences in the early 1990s, one on the 1930s and the next on working-class studies, and received a grant from the Association of American Colleges and Universities to explore the category of class as part of a broader project promoting diversity on college campuses. Under the leadership of co-founders Sherry Linkon and John Russo, the center supported a range of activities promoting awareness of and respect for working-class life and culture, including an educational program in collaboration with Local 1375 of the United Steelworkers that brought college classes to the union hall. This work, in addition to continuing biennial conferences on working-class studies, was further supported by two grants from the Ford Foundation starting in 2000.\n\nThe Center for Study of Working Class Life was established in 1999 at SUNY Stony Brook under the leadership of economist Michael Zweig. Like the Youngstown center, The Center for Study of Working Class Life took an interdisciplinary approach to investigating the meaning of class in contemporary society, although with a stronger emphasis on “tools of the social sciences.” Starting in 2002, their How Class Works conference became the biennial complement to the Youngstown center’s working-class studies conference. The Youngstown conference met every other odd year, and How Class Works met every other even year, multiplying opportunities for cross-disciplinary interaction and collaboration.\n\nThe Working-Class Studies Association began to develop in early 2003 in the course of planning that year’s Youngstown conference. In April 2004, Linkon and John Russo met with 15 participants to develop a mission statement, map out the structure of the organization, and work through organizing issues. The group included academics and graduate students from multiple fields as well as independent scholars and labor educators.\nThe organization held a founding meeting at Stony Brook in June 2004, setting the stage for its first official business meeting at Youngstown in May 2005. The constitution and a slate of candidates for the steering committee were presented at this meeting. Membership received ballots in June and subsequently approved the constitution and first steering committee of the WCSA. The initial slate of officers included Sherry Linkon (President), Peter Rachleff (President-Elect), Jamie Daniel (Secretary) and Michael Zweig (Treasurer). At-large members of the first steering committee were Tim Strangleman, Michele Fazio, Mary Romero, and Andrew Ross.\n\nThe WCSA took responsibility for organizing odd-year conferences beginning in 2007, working with host committees at welcoming universities and colleges: Macalaster College, University of Pittsburgh, University of Illinois at Chicago, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Georgetown University, and Indiana University Bloomington. Beginning with the 2018 conference, the WCSA assumed responsibility for even-year conferences as well, beginning with SUNY Stony Brook.\n\nThe WCSA publishes \"The Journal of Working-Class Studies,\" an online, open access peer reviewed journal (ISSN 2475-4765). New issues come out twice yearly, in December and June. The inaugural issue was December 2016. The journal is co-edited by Sarah Attfield and Liz Giuffre; Sara Appel is Associate Editor.\n\nFrom 2006-2017, the association published a semi-annual newsletter, \"Working-Class Notes.\" It provided information about the organization, reports from officers, news and notes about members’ activities, and book reviews. This newsletter was a continuation of a newsletter by the same name published by the Center for Working-Class Studies at Youngstown State University (YSU) from 1998-2006.\n\nAs of the fall of 2017 issue, \"Working-Class Notes\" ceased publication as its own entity. Most of the elements of the newsletter—a section called “Book Notes,” member news, the President’s letter, officer reports, and reports from affiliated centers—became available on the WCSA website. Lengthier book reviews, which had been a highlight of \"Working-Class Notes,\" moved to \"The Journal of Working-Class Studies.\"\n\n\"Working-Class Notes\" was initially produced by the Center for Working-Class Studies at YSU. It became a WCSA publication in 2006. It was edited by Karen Lynn Ford 2004-2005, Sherry Linkon from 2005-2010, and by Christie Launius from 2010-2017.\n\nThe Book Notes section has been edited by Jack Metzgar from 2007 to the present. In 2016, Cherie Rankin began editing the fiction and poetry notices while Metzgar continues editing nonfiction.\n\nThe WCSA grew out of biennial conferences organized by the Center for Working-Class Studies at Youngstown State University starting in 1995 and, beginning in 2002, How Class Works, a biennial conference sponsored by The Center for Study of Working-Class Life at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.\n\nSince its inception in 2004 the WCSA has sponsored and co-sponsored conferences biennially, and starting in 2018, annually. From 2006-2016 the association met biennially at How Class Works conferences in even numbered years.\n\nIn 2007 the WCSA started sponsoring odd-year biennial conferences by presenting Working-Class Culture and Counter Culture at Macalester College. In 2009, the University of Pittsburgh hosted the WCSA’s Class Matters conference. In 2011, the Chicago Working-Class Studies affiliate of the WCSA presented Working Class Organization and Power at the University of Illinois-Chicago.\n\nFighting Forward: A Labor and Working-Class Summit was held at Madison College’s downtown campus in 2013. This conference was co-sponsored with the Labor and Working-Class Studies Project, a collaborative campus-labor-community initiative based at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. In 2015, WCSA co-sponsored Fighting Inequality with the Labor and Working-Class History Association at Georgetown University. The 2017 conference was hosted by Indiana University Bloomington.\n\nAfter 2017, the WCSA began sponsoring conferences annually, beginning with Class at the Border: Migration, Confinement, and (Im)mobility, hosted by The Center for the Study of Inequalities, Social Justice and Policy at Stony Brook. Conference programs from 2001 to the present are archived on the WCSA website.\n\nThe awards issued by the WCSA are the Tillie Olsen Award for Creative Writing, which honors published books of poetry, fiction, creative non-fiction, and other genres; the C.L.R. James Award for Published Books for Academic or General Audiences; the Russo & Linkon Award for Published Article or Essay for Academic or General Audiences; the Studs Terkel Award for Media and Journalism; and the Constance Coiner Award for Best Dissertation. Awards are announced each year at the annual conference banquet, and a panels are generally organized around the honored works.\n\nAnyone may become a member of the WCSA. The administration of the WCSA is conducted by the Steering Committee, which is elected by the members. Elections are conducted by the Election Committee. The Steering Committee consists of the president, the president-elect, the immediate past-president, the secretary, and the treasurer in addition to four at-large members and the chair of the Working-Class Academics Section.\n\nThe current president is Terry Easton (University of North Georgia). Past president is Michele Fazio (University of North Carolina at Pembroke) and president elect is Cherie Rankin (Heartland Community College).\n\nMichael Zweig, professor emeritus and former director of the Center for Study of Working Class Life at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, has arranged for archival materials documenting the founding of the WCSA to be housed at the Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives at New York University.\n\nArchives related to the WCSA include those for the Center for Working-Class Studies, housed at the Maag Library, Youngstown State University. Documents from the founding and development of the Center for Study of Working Class Life can be found in the university archive of the State University of New York at Stony Brook.\n\n"}
{"id": "37211429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37211429", "title": "Yayasan Sarawak", "text": "Yayasan Sarawak\n\nThe Sarawak Foundation, also known as Yayasan Sarawak is a statutory body set up to help improve the quality of education of Sarawak. It is often associated with the provision of scholarships and study loans.\n\nThe Sarawak Foundation was established through the Yayasan Sarawak Ordinance 1971 by the Sarawak State Government under the leadership of Datuk Patinggi Haji Abdul Rahman Ya'kub, the Chief Minister of Sarawak at the time. \n\nHe aimed to improve the standard of education amongst the people of Sarawak, and became the first Chairman of the Sarawak Foundation. \n\nDatuk Amar Abang Haji Yusuf Puteh, the State Secretary at that time, was appointed as the secretary to the Sarawak Foundation.\n\nThe background of Sarawak Foundation are:\n\nThe foundation aims to become a world-class organization in providing assistance and support for the development of quality human capital and a better community. Six objectives are stated in the Sarawak Foundation Ordinance 1971;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
