{"id": "43446183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43446183", "title": "100,000 Genomes Project", "text": "100,000 Genomes Project\n\nThe 100,000 Genomes Project is a UK Government project that is sequencing whole genomes from National Health Service patients. The project is focusing on rare diseases, some common types of cancer, and infectious diseases. Participants give consent for their genome data to be linked to information about their medical condition and health records. The medical and genomic data is shared with researchers, to improve knowledge of the causes, treatment and care of diseases.\n\nThe project was first announced by UK Prime Minister David Cameron in December 2012. The Government set up a new company Genomics England to oversee the project with the plan to focus on rare diseases, cancer and infectious diseases announced by Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt in July 2013. The project was also made possible by the National Institute for Health Research, NHS England, Public Health England and Health Education England. In 2015 Northern Ireland and Scotland also joined the project with plans to start work the following year. In 2016, the Welsh government issued a statement of intent and is considering participating in the 100,000 Genomes Project.\n\nThe initial participants were recruited from Cambridge University Hospitals, University College London Partners and Newcastle upon Tyne NHS Foundation Trust. The following medical centres joined the project a short time later: Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust.\n\nIn September 2015, Genomics England announced it had contracted with interpretation partners Congenica and Omicia. This is in addition to ongoing work with sequencing partner Illumina.\n\nAs of 1st October 2018, the 100,000 Genomes Project had completed the sequencing of 87,231 whole genomes in England and results are in the process of being returned to NHS GMCs and ultimately back to participants; the first diagnoses from the Project were returned to patients in spring 2015 and over 2,000 families' results have been returned to the NHS in the rare disease programme to date (July 2017).\n\nFollowing the pilot studies, NHS England ran a tender to appoint NHS Genomic Medicine Centres with responsibility for recruiting suitable patients, gaining their consent to participate in the project and taking samples for whole genome sequencing by Illumina (company). The successful bidders designated as NHS Genomic Medicine Centres are:\n\nIn December 2015, two new NHS Genomic Medicine Centres were announced by NHS England: \nThere are now 13 designated NHS Genomic Medicine Centres (GMCs) across the country.\n\nIn 2017, Northern Ireland and Scotland began recruiting participants for the project and Wales aims to begin in 2017–18.\n\nThe Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP) includes 2,500 UK and international clinicians and scientists from approximately 300 institutions in 24 countries. There are plans to increase this number.\nResearchers are organised in \"domains\" formed around particular conditions, cancer types and research areas such as Machine Learning and Health Economics. The partnership is integrated with the NHS and the aims include improving the use of genotype and phenotype data in healthcare, and providing a platform for genomic research collaborations to add to the knowledge base for genetic disorders.\n\nFrom 2015 to 2017, 13 companies joined to form a pre-competitive industry trial, named the Genomics Expert Network for Enterprises (GENE) Consortium. This trial aimed to bring industry expertise into the 100,000 Genomes Project to identify potential benefits for patients, as the private sector is involved in developing new medicines and diagnostics for the NHS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554953", "title": "2000 California Proposition 22", "text": "2000 California Proposition 22\n\nProposition 22 was a law enacted by California voters in March 2000 to prevent marriage between same-sex couples. In May 2008, it was struck down by the California Supreme Court as contrary to the state constitution.\n\nThe Act was proposed by means of the initiative process. It was authored by state Senator William \"Pete\" Knight and is known informally as the Knight initiative. Voters adopted the measure on March 7, 2000, with 61% in favor to 39% against. The margin of victory surprised many, since a Field Poll immediately prior to the election estimated support at 53%, with 40% against and 7% undecided.\n\nThe Act added Section 308.5 of the Family Code, which read \"Only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California\". Because the Act was an ordinary statute, it could be struck down if it were inconsistent with the state constitution, as happened on May 15, 2008, when the state supreme court, ruling in \"In re Marriage Cases\", declared that same-sex couples had a constitutional right to marry. This 4–3 decision invalidated Proposition 22 and some related California laws.\n\nProposition 22 provoked debate long after its passage. In November 2008 California voters overturned the \"In re Marriage Cases\" decision by approving an amendment of the state constitution called Proposition 8. In June 2010, Proposition 8 was declared unconstitutional by U.S district judge Vaughn Walker based on the Due Process and Equal Protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution. In June 2013, the United States Supreme Court in \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\" ruled that the Intervenor-Defendants had no Article III standing to appeal Walker's ruling, keeping Proposition 8 unenforceable throughout California and enabling same-sex marriage to resume just two days after the decision.\n\nPrior to 1977, marriage was defined in Section 4100 of the California Civil Code. This stated that marriage is \"a personal relation arising out of a civil contract, to which consent of the parties making that contract is necessary\". While related sections of the law made references to sex, a State Assembly committee that was debating adding sex-specific terms to this section in 1977 noted: \"Under existing law it is not clear whether partners of the same sex can get married\". That year, the legislature amended the legal definition of marriage to remove any ambiguity. In 1992 the legal definition of marriage was moved from the Civil Code to Section 300 of the Family Code.\n\nWhen Proposition 22 came before voters, marriage was defined in the Family Code as \"a personal relation arising out of a civil contract \"between a man and a woman,\" to which the consent of the parties capable of making that contract is necessary\" [\"italics\" added].\n\nEven though the definition governing who may marry explicitly precluded contracting a same-sex marriage in California, a separate provision, Section 308, governed recognition of marriages contracted elsewhere. This stated that a \"marriage contracted outside this state that would be valid by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the marriage was contracted is valid in this state\". Advocates of Proposition 22 described Section 308 as a \"loophole\", apparently forcing California to recognize a same-sex marriage validly contracted in some other state.\n\nTo address this, Proposition 22 did not reword the existing provisions of the Family Code, but added to them the declaration that \"only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California\". The official citation of Proposition 22, the \"California Defense of Marriage Act\", is almost the same as that of a federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act, which was enacted by Congress in 1996. This federal law had a similar purpose, and was intended to prevent any state from being obligated to recognize a same-sex marriage contracted in another state.\n\nCentral to many subsequent disputes over Prop 22's effect is a distinction between statutes enacted by the legislature and initiative statutes enacted directly by the electorate. The legislature is free to amend or rescind its own enactments, but voters must approve any attempt by the legislature to amend or repeal an initiative statute unless the initiative itself states otherwise.\n\nIn 1999, California enacted the first in a series of domestic partnership provisions. California courts have entertained several challenges to legislative expansions of the domestic partnership scheme enacted after Prop 22. Generally, these challenges alleged that the legislature inappropriately amended Prop 22 by making California's domestic partnership scheme too similar to marriage, or more broadly, that Prop 22 made 'any' subsequent recognition of same-sex partnerships beyond the legislature's inherent power. California Courts of Appeal rejected those claims, noting that domestic partnerships already existed as a legal institution separate from marriage at the time Prop 22 was enacted.\n\nIn September 2005, the California legislature passed a bill, A.B. 849, eliminating the gender requirements for marriage now found in Family Code section 300. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed the bill. In his veto message, Schwarzenegger argued that passing a law that would implicitly repeal Section 308.5 required the assent of the electorate (and separately made note of pending court challenges).\n\nIn ruling on the disputes between Prop 22 and the domestic partnership enactments, California Courts of Appeal have reached differing conclusions as to Prop 22's scope within the marriage statutes.\n\nIn \"Armijo v. Miles,\" the Second Appellate District distinguished Prop 22 from the case at bar by noting, in part, that the initiative prevented the recognition of same-sex marriages conducted \"outside\" California:\n\nThe legislative analysis and the ballot arguments readily demonstrate that Proposition 22 was crafted with a prophylactic purpose in mind. It was designed to prevent same-sex couples who could marry validly in other countries or who in the future could marry validly in other states from coming to California and claiming, in reliance on Family Code section 308, that their marriages must be recognized as valid marriages. With the passage of Proposition 22, then, only opposite-sex marriages validly contracted outside this state will be recognized as valid in California.\n\nThe \"Armijo\" court may not have ruled that the historical purpose of Prop 22 limited its scope to out of state marriages. The court appears to have ultimately presumed that Proposition 22 did indeed apply to in-state arrangements deemed to be \"marriages,\" but held that the challenged wrongful death statute did not violate that prohibition:\n\nThe question remaining is whether the portion of AB 2580 that amends the wrongful death statute subverts Proposition 22. Defendants' position that it does is based on the faulty premise that the right to sue for wrongful death is an exclusive benefit of marriage. It is not.\n\nLess than a week later, on April 4, 2005, the Third Appellate District ruled more explicitly, in \"Knight v. Superior Court,\" that Prop 22 also included within the initiative's ambit marriages licensed \"within\" the state:\n\nThe plain language of Proposition 22 and its initiative statute, section 308.5, reaffirms the definition of marriage in section 300, by stating that only marriage between a man and a woman shall be valid and recognized in California. This limitation ensures that California will not legitimize or recognize same-sex marriages from other jurisdictions, as it otherwise would be required to do pursuant to section 308, and that California will not permit same-sex partners to validly marry within the state.\n\nAs with \"Armijo,\" the \"Knight\" court upheld the challenged statute on the grounds that it did not constitute a \"marriage\" for purposes of Prop 22 or Section 300. The cases differed, however, in that \"Armijo\" appeared to rely on a narrow observation that a particular benefit was not exclusive to marriage, while \"Knight\" upheld a broad domestic partnership statute against challenges it left almost no substantive difference between the two institutions. Parties in subsequent cases, including the same-sex marriage cases, have noted the apparent split between the appellate courts with respect to its scope.\n\nAs the ultimate rulings in these cases arguably did not require a finding that Prop 22 applies to in-state marriages (both were upheld against a challenge that they constituted marriage under Prop 22, the same result that would have obtained if they had ruled Prop 22 did not apply to in-state marriages), some argue that these findings are dicta. On the flip side, an argument can be made that these holdings are \"not\" dicta, as both courts ruled on the merits of whether or not a challenged in-state arrangement constituted a \"marriage\" for purposes of Prop 22, an allegation that would be moot if either court believed Prop 22 permitted in-state marriages.\n\nIn 2008, the California Supreme Court resolved the controversy in ruling on the constitutionality of statutes limiting marriage to a man and a woman: \"this provision reasonably must be interpreted to apply both to marriages performed in California and those performed in other jurisdictions.\"\n\nSeparately, numerous challenges to the constitutionality of the opposite-sex requirements found in California's marriage statutes, including Prop 22, came before the courts. A San Francisco trial court threw out all of the gender requirements on state constitutional grounds. On appeal, an intermediate court reversed that decision. In December 2006, the California Supreme Court voted unanimously to review all six cases and held oral argument on March 4, 2008, consolidating the cases as \"In re Marriage Cases\". The Court ruled on May 15, 2008, that Proposition 22 violated the state Constitution and was therefore invalid. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger immediately issued a statement pledging to uphold the ruling, and repeated his pledge to oppose Proposition 8, a constitutional amendment initiative that would override the Court's ruling and again ban same sex marriages by placing the text of Proposition 22 in the State Constitution.\n\nProposition 22 has been officially repealed, effective January 1, 2015. Governor Brown signed SB 1306 on July 7, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "20488147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20488147", "title": "2001 Jos riots", "text": "2001 Jos riots\n\nThe 2001 Jos riots were riots involving Christians and Muslims in Jos, Nigeria, over the appointment of a Muslim politician, Alhaji Muktar Mohammed, as local coordinator of the federal poverty alleviation program. The clashes started on 7 September and lasted nearly two weeks, ending on 17 September. Some 1,000 people were killed during the riots. \n\nReligious and ethnic conflicts have repeatedly occurred in Jos due to the city's geographical placement in Nigeria. Jos, the capital of Plateau State, is located in the middle of the country, which lies between the predominantly Muslim north and the predominantly Christian south. Jos was also known for its job opportunities leading people from around Nigeria to move there for employment. The influx of people led to tensions between members of \"indigene\" (indigenous) ethnic groups and non-indigene ethnic groups (often referred to as \"settlers\"). In June 2001 the federal government appointed a Hausa Muslim politician, Alhaji Muktar Mohammed, as local coordinator of the federal poverty alleviation program, leading indigene Christians to protest his appointment. Tensions turned violent on 7 September 2001, when a Christian woman attempted to cross a barricaded street outside a mosque during Friday prayers. It led to a conflict between her and a group of Muslims. The fight eventually spread to other parts of the city.\n\nFighting spread through various Jos neighborhoods and to surrounding communities. Property and even human beings were set on fire. Many houses, shops, mosques and churches were burned or damaged. Torched cars were left along the streets after the clashes. Christian leaders reported that Muslims spontaneously attacked Christians and burned churches, including three churches of the Church of Christ in Nigeria (COCIN), the main Assemblies of God church, and a Jos Apostolic Church. The military was eventually deployed and stopped the violence. Local sources said the military's intervention and strict enforcement of the curfew helped end the clashes.\n\nThe 10 days of violence left approximately 1,000 dead. Because of the large number of people killed in the clashes, a mass burial had to be arranged. The riots caused the displacement of at least 50,000 civilians. The authorities arrested several hundred people and set up a commission of inquiry, which identified people who were allegedly involved in the violence, but no one was successfully prosecuted.\n\n"}
{"id": "40082559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40082559", "title": "40th government of Turkey", "text": "40th government of Turkey\n\nThe 40th government of Turkey (21 June 1977 – 21 July 1977) was a short term (one month) government that governed Turkey in 1977. It was a minority government of Republican People's Party (CHP) led by Bülent Ecevit.\n\nIn the elections held on 5 June 1977, CHP received 41% (highest percentage CHP ever reached after 1950) of the vote and became the first party. However, in the parliament, CHP gained only 213 seats out of 450. Other parties were reluctant to form a coalition with CHP. However, Ecevit, confident of his prestige, tried a minority government.\n\nIn the voting on 21 July, the government lost a vote of confidence (217 vs 229).\n"}
{"id": "2703696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703696", "title": "All-Amhara People's Organization", "text": "All-Amhara People's Organization\n\nThe All-Amhara People's Organization is an ethnic based political party in Ethiopia, whose leader was the late Asrat Woldeyes.\n\nAt the last legislative elections, 15 May 2005, the party was part of the United Ethiopian Democratic Forces, that won 52 out of 527 seats in the Council of People's Representatives.\n"}
{"id": "19194269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19194269", "title": "Anti-prostitution pledge", "text": "Anti-prostitution pledge\n\nThe Federal government of the United States requires non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that receive federal anti-HIV/AIDS or anti-trafficking funds to adopt an organization-wide policy opposing prostitution and sex-trafficking. This requirement, known as the anti-prostitution pledge, has been in place since 2003.\n\nThe policy has been criticized as counterproductive, as it hampers enlisting those involved in the sex industry in the fight against AIDS.\n\nInitially the requirement was only applied to foreign-based NGOs, but in 2005 the Bush administration began applying it to U.S.-based organizations as well, resulting in legal challenges on First Amendment grounds. These challenges were ultimately successful before the Supreme Court, with the 2013 decision in the case \"Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International\". The requirement remains in effect for foreign-based NGOs that receive U.S. funds.\n\nU.S. President George W. Bush announced the five-year $15 billion President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief in January 2003; Congress passed it in May 2003 under the name \"United States Leadership against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act (Global AIDS Act)\". The act identifies prostitution and sex trafficking as contributing to the spread of HIV and explicitly advances a new U.S. policy goal: the eradication of prostitution.\nThe act states:\n\nIn December 2003 Congress passed the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act which provided for funding of anti-trafficking activities, subject to the following restrictions.\n\nThe anti-prostitution pledge language in both acts was authored by Representative Chris Smith, Republican from New Jersey.\n\nThe Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004 amended the AIDS Authorization to exempt the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the World Health Organization, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative and any United Nations agency from having to sign the anti-prostitution pledge.\n\nWhile the language of the legislation does not distinguish between foreign and U.S.-based organizations, the pledge was initially only enforced for the former, as the Justice Department had expressed First Amendment concerns. In September 2004, a letter from Assistant Attorney General Daniel Levin reversed this opinion, and the U.S. Agency for International Development issued a directive in June 2005 that expanded the pledge requirement to all NGOs.\n\nA document issued by the CDC in May 2005 sought to extend the pledge requirement to the large group of organizations that receive funding through the multilateral Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (to which the U.S. contributes). This was quickly overturned by US Director of Foreign Assistance Randall L. Tobias.\n\nIn a February 2002 National Security Presidential Directive, President George W. Bush wrote: \"The United States opposes prostitution and any related activities, including pimping, pandering, and/or maintaining brothels as contributing to the phenomenon\nof trafficking in persons. These activities are inherently harmful and dehumanizing. The United States Government's position is that these activities should not be regulated as a legitimate form of work for any human being.\"\n\nIn February 2005, a group of non-profit organizations including CARE, the International Rescue Committee, Save the Children and the International Center for Research on Women protested the anti-prostitution pledge policy in a letter to US Director of Foreign Assistance Randall L. Tobias. This was followed by a May 2005 protest letter to President Bush, signed by hundreds of organizations worldwide, stating that the pledge \"makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to establish the trust necessary to provide services to these hard-to-reach groups\" and it will \"exacerbate stigma and discrimination against already marginalized groups.\"\n\nThis was countered in August 2005 by a letter to the President supporting the policy, signed by over 100 groups, including the Christian Medical Association, Concerned Women for America, Family Research Council, Focus on the Family, National Association of Evangelicals, Southern Baptist Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, Sex Industry Survivors, The Medical Institute, The Salvation Army, World Hope International and World Relief. Supporters of the pledge requirement argued that prostitution is inherently harmful and needs to be abolished, rejected harm reduction approaches, and held that legalized prostitution increases demand for sex trafficking.\n\nIn May 2005, the Brazilian government turned down $40 million in anti-HIV/AIDS funding from the U.S. government because of the anti-prostitution pledge. Brazil's AIDS commissioner Pedro Chequer was quoted as saying \"Sex workers are part of implementing our AIDS policy and deciding how to promote it. They are our partners. How could we ask prostitutes to take a position against themselves?\"\n\nThe anti-prostitution pledge has been criticized as counterproductive, because projects that work with and support prostitutes are often seen as instrumental in fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS. The Brazilian anti-AIDS program, which employs prostitutes to hand out information and free condoms, is considered by the United Nations to be the most successful in the developing world. The Sonagachi Project is a prostitutes' cooperative in Calcutta, India, that supports sex workers' rights and works to stop the spread of HIV; it has received strong positive evaluations from both UNAIDS and the World Bank, and has been cited by UNAIDS as a \"best-practice\" model of working with prostitutes.\n\nRonald Weitzer has described the anti-prostitution pledge as a symptom of what he calls the \"moral crusade\" against sex trafficking, resulting in a broad attack against all forms of commercial sex acts. The language of the policy juxtaposes the words \"prostitution\" and \"sex trafficking\"; it has been pointed out that it is important to clearly distinguish between these two concepts, and that all relevant organizations already strongly oppose sex trafficking.\n\nRandall L. Tobias, the U.S. administration's foreign aid chief who was responsible for implementation of the anti-prostitution pledge, resigned in April 2007 over allegations that he had used an escort service. Some sex worker organizations and commentators called the situation \"ironic\" and Tobias \"hypocritical\".\n\nThe 2012 final report of UNDP's Global Commission on HIV and the Law denounced the anti-prostitution pledge and included the recommendation\nIn response to the 2005 decision to apply the policy also to U.S.-based organizations, two lawsuits were filed, alleging that the policy compels or prohibits speech in violation of the First Amendment, and also prohibits actions that are exclusively privately funded.\n\nIn the first case (\"DKT v. USAID\"), the non-profit DKT International prevailed in District Court but lost on appeal, at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D. C. Circuit. The February 2007 appeals court ruling was based on the assumption that the government would allow speech regarding prostitution as long as it is done through an affiliate that doesn't receive federal funding.\n\nThe second case (\"AOSI v. USAID\") involved the plaintiffs Alliance for Open Society International, its affiliate the Open Society Institute, and Pathfinder International. In May 2006, a District Court in New York issued a preliminary injunction, preventing the government from requiring these organizations to sign the anti-prostitution pledge. The government appealed this injunction to the Second Circuit Court. During the oral arguments in the case, the government stated that it would allow legally and physically separate affiliates to engage in the prohibited speech. The government issued guidelines to this effect in July 2007. In November 2007, the Appeals Court rebuffed the government and let the preliminary injunction stand, returning the case to the District Court. Global Health Council and InterAction joined the case, and the District Court extended the injunction to all U.S.-based members of these organizations in August 2008. The Appeals Court, in a 2-1 decision in July 2011, affirmed the injunction and held that the anti-prostitution policy requirement \"likely violates the First Amendment.\"\n\nIn September 2012, the Brennan Center for Justice obtained a ruling forcing the Department of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel to hand over the original February 2004 memorandum which had argued that the pledge, as applied to U.S.-based organizations, was unconstitutional.\n\nIn a 6-2 decision, the Supreme Court ruled in 2013 that the anti-prostitution pledge violated the First Amendment: the government may not leverage funding to regulate grant recipient's speech outside of the funded program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61618", "title": "Bartholomew I of Constantinople", "text": "Bartholomew I of Constantinople\n\nBartholomew I (, , ; born 29 February 1940) is the 270th and current Archbishop of Constantinople and Ecumenical Patriarch, since 2 November 1991. In accordance with his title, he is regarded as the \"primus inter pares\" (first among equals) in the Eastern Orthodox Church, and as the spiritual leader of 300 million Orthodox Christians worldwide.\n\nBorn Dimitrios Arhondonis (), in the village of Agios Theodoros (Zeytinli Köyü) on the island of Imbros (later renamed Gökçeada by Turkey), after his graduation he held a position at the Patriarchal Theological Seminary of Halki, where he was ordained a priest. Later, he served as Metropolitan of Philadelphia and Chalcedon and he became a member of the Holy Synod as well as other committees, prior to his enthronement as Ecumenical Patriarch.\n\nBartholomew's tenure has been characterized by intra-Orthodox cooperation, intra-Christian and inter-religious dialogue, and formal visits to Roman Catholic, Old Catholic, Orthodox and Muslim leaders seldom previously visited by an Ecumenical Patriarch. He has exchanged numerous invitations with church and state dignitaries. His efforts to promote religious freedom and human rights, his initiatives to advance religious tolerance among the world's religions, as well as his efforts to promote ecology and the protection of the environment, have been widely noted, and these endeavors have earned him the title \"The Green Patriarch\". Among his many international positions, he currently sits on the Board of World Religious Leaders for the Elijah Interfaith Institute.\nBartholomew I was born in the village of Zeytinli () in the island of Gökçeada (), son of Christos and Merope Archontónis. His secular birth name is \"Dimitrios Arhondonis\" (Δημήτριος Αρχοντώνης, Dimítrios Archontónis). He is a Turkish citizen, but he belongs (ethnically) to the historically indigenous Rum - descendants of Eastern Roman Empire/Byzantine Empire Greek community in Turkey, which today is diminished and reduced due to the Greek genocide, the subsequent population exchange of 1923 between Greece and Turkey and ultimately through the exodus of Greeks post the 1960s Cyprus conflicts.\n\nDimitrios Archontonis attended elementary school in his native Imvros and continued his secondary education in the famous Zographeion Lyceum in Istanbul. Soon afterwards, he studied Theology as an undergraduate at the Patriarchal Theological school or Halki seminary, from which he graduated with highest honours in 1961, and was immediately ordained deacon, receiving the name Bartholomew. Bartholomew fulfilled his military service in the Turkish army as a non regular officer between 1961 and 1963. From 1963 to 1968, Bartholomew pursued his postgraduate studies at the Pontifical Oriental Institute in Rome, the Ecumenical Institute of Bossey in Switzerland and the Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich in Germany. His doctoral research was on the Canon Law. The same year he became a lecturer in the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.\n\nAfter returning to Istanbul in 1968, he took a position at the Patriarchal Theological Seminary of Halki, where he was ordained a priest in 1969, by Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras I. When Demetrius I became Ecumenical Patriarch in 1972 and established the Patriarchal Office, he selected Bartholomew as its director. On Christmas of 1973, Bartholomew became Metropolitan of Philadelphia, and was renamed as director of the patriarchal office until his enthronement as Metropolitan of Chalcedon in 1990. From March 1974 until his enthronement as Ecumenical Patriarch, he was a member of the Holy Synod as well as of many Synodical Committees.\n\nHe speaks Modern Greek, Turkish, Italian, German, French and English; he is also fluent in classical Greek and Latin.\n\nBartholomew I was the target of an assassination plot which was planned to take place on May 29, 2013. One suspect was arrested and there is an ongoing search for two others.\n\n\nAs Ecumenical Patriarch, he has been particularly active internationally. One of his first focuses has been on rebuilding the once-persecuted Eastern Orthodox Churches of the former Eastern Bloc following the fall of Communism there in 1990. As part of this effort he has worked to strengthen ties among the various national Churches and Patriarchates of the Eastern Orthodox Communion. He has also continued the reconciliation dialogue with the Roman Catholic Church started by his predecessors, and initiated dialogue with other faiths, including other Christian sects, Muslims, and Jews.\n\nHe has also gained a reputation as a prominent environmentalist, putting the support of the Patriarchate behind various international environmental causes. This has earned him the nicknames of \"the Green Patriarch\" and \"the Green Pope\", and in 2002 he was honored with the Sophie Prize. He has also been honoured with the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest award which may be bestowed by the Legislative Branch of the United States government.\n\nBartholomew I, after his attempts to celebrate the liturgy in remote areas of the country, thereby renewing the Orthodox presence, which was absent since before 1924, has now come under intense pressure from Turkish nationalist elements. The patriarchal Seminary of Halki in the Princes' Islands remains closed since 1971 on government orders.\n\nDuring his trip to Turkey in November 2006, Pope Benedict XVI traveled to Istanbul on the invitation of the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople Bartholomew I. The Pope participated in the feast day services of St. Andrew the First Apostle, the patron saint of the Church of Constantinople. This was the third official visit to the Ecumenical Patriarchate by a Pope (the first being by Paul VI in 1967, and the second by John Paul II in 1979).\n\nIn an interview published on 19 November 2006 in the daily newspaper \"Sabah\", Bartholomew I addressed the issues of religious freedom and the then upcoming papal trip to Turkey. He also referred to the closing of the Halki seminary by saying: \"As Turkish citizens, we pay taxes. We serve in the military. We vote. As citizens we do everything. We want the same rights. But it does not happen... If Muslims want to study theology, there are 24 theology faculties. Where are we going to study?\" He also addressed the issue of his Ecumenical title and it not being accepted by the Turkish government: \"We've had this title since the 6th century... The word ecumenical has no political content. [...] This title is the only thing that I insist on. I will never renounce this title.\"\n\nHe attended the Papal inauguration of Pope Francis on 19 March 2013, paving the way for better Catholic–Orthodox relations. It was the first time that the spiritual head of Eastern Orthodox Christians had attended a papal inauguration since the Great Schism in 1054. After, he invited Pope Francis to travel with him to the Holy Land in 2014 to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the embrace between Patriarch Athenagoras and Pope Paul VI. Pope Francis was also invited to the Patriarchate for the feast day of Saint Andrew (30 November).\n\nOn 16 April 2016 he visited, together with Pope Francis and Archbishop Hieronymus, the Mòria camp in the island of Lesbos, to call the attention of the world to the refugee issue.\n\nFull title:\n\nHis Most Divine All Holiness, Bartholomew I, Archbishop of Constantinople, New Rome, and Ecumenical Patriarch\n\nin Greek:\n\nΗ Αυτού Θειοτάτη Παναγιότης ο Αρχιεπίσκοπος Κωνσταντινουπόλεως Νέας Ρώμης και Οικουμενικός Πατριάρχης Βαρθολομαίος Α'\n\nTitle recognized by the Republic of Turkey:\n\nBartholomew I, Patriarch of the Fener Roman Orthodox Patriarchate in Istanbul\n\nin Turkish:\n\nİstanbul Fener Rum Patriği Birinci Bartholomeos\n\n\nHe has been awarded honorary doctorates by a number of universities and educational institutions around the world, among them: National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, University of Patras, TEI of Kavala, Democritus University of Thrace, University of Crete, University of Ioannina, University of the Aegean, University of Western Macedonia and University of Thessaly in Greece, Moscow State University in Russia, University of Bucharest and University of Iaşi in Romania, City University of London, Exeter University and University of Edinburgh in the United Kingdom, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium, St. Sergius Orthodox Theological Institute and Université de Provence Aix-Marseille I in France, Izmir University of Economics in Turkey, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in South Korea, Flinders University in Australia, Adamson University in the Philippines, St. Andrew's College and Sherbrooke University in Canada, Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology, Georgetown University, Tufts University, Southern Methodist University, Yale University, Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in the United States.\n\nHe received an honorary PhD. from The Hebrew University in Jerusalem on 6th December 2017.\n\nIn October 2009, he received an honorary doctorate from Fordham University in the United States.\n\nOn December 3, 2013, he received the Global Thinkers Forum 2013 Award for Excellence in Peace and Collaboration.\n\nIn 2012 he received the Four Freedom Award for the Freedom of Worship\n\nIn 1997, Bartholomew received the Congressional Gold Medal. The Congressional Gold Medal and the Presidential Medal of Freedom are the highest civilian awards given by the United States.\n\nIn 2002, he received the Sophie Prize for his work on the environment.\n\nIn April 2008, he was included on the \"Time\" 100 most influential people in the world list. In 1999 he was awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of the Star of Romania; in 2004, by Federal President Thomas Klestil, the Great Golden Medal with Ribbon for Services to the Republic of Austria and on 13 March 2007, the third anniversary of the death of Cardinal Franz König, Bartholomew was awarded in Vienna's St. Stephen the \"Cardinal König Prize\" Foundation \"Communio et Progressio\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6132728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132728", "title": "CIS-EMO", "text": "CIS-EMO\n\nCommonwealth of the Independent States - Election Monitoring Organization (CIS-EMO) — is an international non-governmental organization founded by the Commonwealth of Independent States. CIS-EMO conducts election observation missions and prepares reports of limited credibility that serve to counter the findings of more reputable organizations. It was founded in 2003 in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia and was led by Aleksey Kochetkov. As an NGO, it is different from other observers sent by the CIS.\n\nThe leading body of the Organization is the Supreme Council. Representatives of different countries constitute the Supreme Council. Today representatives of Russia, Poland, Germany, France, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Armenia, Latvia, Estonia are members of the authority of CIS-EMO.\nIn 2008 CIS-EMO signed an agreement with the Centre for Monitoring Democratic Processes ‘Quorum’ for co-operation.\n\nCIS-EMO participated in observing the following elections:\nStatus on the moment of participation.\n\nCIS-EMO participates and organizes different events such as:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58230624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58230624", "title": "Celebrity influence in politics", "text": "Celebrity influence in politics\n\nCelebrity influence in politics, also referred to as \"celebrity politics,\" or \"political star power,\" is the act of a prominent person using their fame as a platform to influence others on political issues or ideology. According to Anthony Elliott, celebrity is a central structuring point in self and social identification, per-forming as it does an increasingly important role in self-framings, self-imaginings, self-revisions and self-reflection. The influential people considered celebrities can be anyone with a major following such as professional athletes, actors/actresses, television personalities, or musicians. Celebrities have two kinds of specific power; the abilities to shed light on issues and persuade audiences. Social media is one of the most common areas for celebrities to discuss specific issues or current events that are being politicized; the individuals may also speak out in public forums such as television talk shows, events, or during their own widely-attended performances.\n\nThe adoption of wide-reaching mediums has made it easier for celebrities to exert influence in politics that began with the creation of television. According to John Street, celebrity influence in politics began with television, as the medium is intimate and focused more on the human side of people, including political candidates, than any other medium. He further states that celebrities were able to use television to reach a wide audience and that their influence affected others' understandings of certain topics. As different mediums emerged, such as social media, where celebrities could voice their opinions on various topics, their influence had a greater effect. Mark Wheeler has opined that this led to one of the main critiques of celebrity involvement in politics in that celebrities could be viewed as a manufactured product, one fabricated through media exposure. \n\nCelebrities such as movie stars, professional athletes, musicians, and reality television stars have campaigned for and against political parties, candidates, and on political issues. Examples include Oprah Winfrey and George Clooney endorsing Barack Obama's presidential campaign in 2008 and a song written by American musician Hank Williams Jr. endorsing Senator John McCain's campaign in the same election. Prior to winning the 2016 United States presidential election, President Donald Trump was a businessman and television personality who actively appeared on Fox News to discuss politics and endorsed political candidates. Michael Higgins concludes that Trump's media-centered politics amounts to a \"pseudo presidency\", confounding orthodox forms of political accountability. According to John Street, this is evident in how he is represented, how he performs and how his 'fans' respond to him. It is also symptomatic of wider changes in the conduct and form of the contemporary, mediatised political realm. In India, Amitabh Bachchan and Smriti Irani have campaigned for various political parties and positions. \n\nThere are multiple cases of celebrities who have performed well in the polls and have become important political figures in their respective countries. Examples include Austrian-American bodybuilder and movie star Arnold Schwarzenegger, Italian comedian Beppe Grillo, Israeli television host Yair Lapid, Brazilian singer and composer Gilberto Gil, and Panamanian salsa singer and actor Rubén Blades.\n\nThrough their activism on the world stage, a self-selected cast of celebrities have begun to have a significant impact on policy, shaping the agenda on a range of global humanitarian issues. Celebrities play a growing role as part of an emerging strategy for political advocacy. Spawned by the difficulty most groups have making news, and made possible by the evolution of technology and the public sphere, this new celebrity advocacy strategy represents one aspect of the broader shift in American politics being ushered in by the digital age. Celebrities have the ability to generate parasocial relationships (feelings of a personal connectedness despite the lack of direct contact with the consumers). According to Brian Loader et al, young citizens are generally cautiously positive about both politicians and celebrities using social media but feel that they should learn to use it appropriately if they are to rebuild trust and credibility. In the United States and Canada, there is empirical confirmation of celebrities having a positive effect on the willingness of young people to support specific causes. According to Anubhav and Abhinav Mishra, the credibility of the endorser will likely translate to that of the political group that celebrity is endorsing.\n\nIdentification is the process by which individuals are thought to develop a deep connection with celebrities. This increases the likelihood that the viewer will perform the behaviors advocated by the celebrity as well as adopt similar attitudes and beliefs. Individuals go through the process of identification where they start to believe in the values, convictions and behaviors portrayed by the celebrity endorser and eventually adopt them as their own. Because it is easier to identify with people who have a connection or relationship, individuals are more likely to identify with celebrities that are closer to them in age. Scholars consider identification a significant component in the persuasion process through which celebrities influence audience behavior. \n\nVarious concerns have been raised over celebrity involvement in politics. According to John Street, one of the main criticisms of celebrity involvement in politics is when celebrities take an office. In his article, as his example of this Street mentions Arnold Schwarzenegger becoming the Governor of California. He cites the main concerns surrounding celebrities holding office is lacking the qualities necessary to be a representative of the people. Street also argues that reliance on intimate mediums, such as television shifts the criteria by which politicians are judged from leadership skills to populist empathy. In Mark Wheeler's book, \"Celebrity Politics,\" he mentions that outside of politicians holding public office, their advocacy on political issues can cause skewed understanding of that particular topic. Wheeler suggests these critique's of celebrity involvement in politics reflects the values of the Frankfurt School. The school's critical theorists contended that media has become an expression of dominate ideology, which celebrities advocate for. \n"}
{"id": "54370868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54370868", "title": "Civic education in the United States", "text": "Civic education in the United States\n\nThe promotion of a republic and its values has been an important concern for policy-makers – to impact people´s political perceptions, to encourage political participation, and to foster the principles enshrined in the Constitution (e.g. liberty, freedom of speech, civil rights). The subject of “Civics” has been integrated into the Curriculum and Content Standards, to enhance the comprehension of democratic values in the educational system. Civic literature has found that “engaging young children in civic activities from an early age is a positive predictor of their participation in later civic life”.\n\nAs an academic subject, Civics has the instructional objective to promote knowledge that is aligned with self-governance and participation in matters of public concern. These objectives advocate for an instruction that encourages active student participation in democratic decision-making environments, such as voting to elect a course representative for a school government, or deciding on actions that will affect the school environment or community. Thus the intersection of individual and collective decision making activities, are critical to shape “individual´s moral development”. To reach those goals, civic instructors must promote the adoption of certain skills and attitudes such as “respectful argumentation, debate, information literacy”, to support “the development of morally responsible individuals who will shape a morally responsible and civically minded society\". In the 21st century, young people are less interested in direct political participation (i.e. being in a political party or even voting), but are motivated to use digital media (e.g. Twitter, Facebook). Digital media enable young people to share and exchange ideas rapidly, enabling the coordination of local communities that promote volunteerism and political activism, in topics principally related to human rights and environmental subjects.\n\nYoung people are constructing and supporting their political identities in the 21st century by using social media, and digital tools (e.g. text messaging, hashtags, videos) to share, post, reply an opinion or attitude about a political/social topic and to promote social mobilization and support through online mechanism to a wide and diverse audience. Therefore, civics' end-goal in the 21st century must be oriented to “empower the learners to find issues in their immediate communities that seem important to the people with whom they live and associate”, once “learners have identified with a personal issue and participated in constructing a collective framing for common issues”.\n\nAccording to the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, one of the purposes of Civic Education is to “foster civic competence and responsibility” which is promoted through the Center for Civic Education’s We the People and Project Citizen initiatives. However, there is a lack of consensus for how this mission should be pursued. The Center for Information & Research on Civic Learning & Engagement (CIRCLE) reviewed state civic education requirements in the United States for 2012. The findings include:\nThe lack of state-mandated student accountability relating to civics may be a result of a shift in emphasis towards reading and mathematics in response to the 2001 No Child Left Behind Act. There is a movement to require that states utilize the citizenship test as a graduation requirement, but this is seen as a controversial solution to some educators.\n\nStudents are also demonstrating that their civic knowledge leaves much to be desired. A National Center for Education Statistics NAEP report card for civics (2010) stated that “levels of civic knowledge in U.S. have remained unchanged or even declined over the past century”. Specifically, only 24 percent of 4th, 8th, and 12th graders were at or above the proficient level on the National Assessment of Educational Progress in civics. Traditionally, civic education has emphasized the facts of government processes detached from participatory experience. In an effort to combat the existing approach, the National Council for the Social Studies developed the College, Career, and Civic Life (C3) Framework for Social Studies State Standards. The C3 Framework emphasizes “new and active approaches” including the “discussion of controversial issues and current events, deliberation of public issues, service-learning, action civics, participation in simulation and role play, and the use of digital technologies”.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by the Pew Research Center, among teens 12–17 years old, 95% have access to the Internet, 70% go online daily, 80% use social networking sites, and 77% have cell phones. As a result, participatory culture has become a staple for today’s youth, affecting their conceptualization of civic participation. They use Web 2.0 tools (i.e. blogs, podcasts, wikis, social media) to: circulate information (blogs and podcasts); collaborate with peers (wikis); produce and exchange media; and connect with people around the world via social media and online communities. The pervasiveness of participatory digital tools has led to a shift in the way adolescents today perceive civic action and participation. Whereas 20th century civic education embraced the belief of “dutiful citizenship” and civic engagement as a “matter of duty or obligation;” 21st century civic education has shifted to reflect youths' “personally expressive politics” and “peer-to-peer relationships” that promote civic engagement.\n\nThis shift in students' perceptions has led to classroom civic education experiences that reflect the digital world in which 21st century youth now live, in order to make the content both relevant and meaningful. Civics education classrooms in the 21st century now seek to provide genuine opportunities to actively engage in the consumption, circulation, discussion, and production of civic and political content via Web 2.0 technologies such as blogging, wikis, and social media. Although these tools offer new ways for engagement, interaction, and dialogue, educators have also recognized the need to teach youth how to interact both respectfully and productively with their peers and members of online communities. As a result, many school districts have also begun adopting Media Literacy Frameworks for Engaged Citizenship as a pedagogical approach to prepare students for active participatory citizenship in today’s digital age. This model includes critical analysis of digital media as well as a deep understanding of media literacy as a “collaborative and participatory movement that aims to empower individuals to have a voice and to use it.”\n"}
{"id": "5810417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5810417", "title": "Committee to Defeat Revisionism, for Communist Unity", "text": "Committee to Defeat Revisionism, for Communist Unity\n\nCommittee to Defeat Revisionism, for Communist Unity was a small British Marxist-Leninist group that left the Communist Party of Great Britain in 1963. CDRCU was led by Michael McCreery, the son of General Sir Richard McCreery. CDRCU was sympathetic towards the Communist Party of China and the Party of Labour of Albania, with CDRCU members attending May Day celebrations in Tirana in May 1964. The group began publishing \"Vanguard\" in 1963.\n\nCDRCU reached the height of its activity from February 1964 to February 1965, during which CDRCU cells were established in London, the Thames Valley, Scotland, West Yorkshire, Manchester and Cardiff, and public meetings were arranged. CDRCU had split with other CPGB members, some of them based around the \"Forum\" publication, who wanted to remain inside the CPGB to conduct the anti-revisionist struggle. In October 1964, the CDRCU stood a candidate in Huyton in the general election, gaining 899 votes.\n\nAfter McCreery died (at the age of only 36) from cancer in 1965 in New Zealand, the activity of the group declined sharply. Most of the members of CDRCU regrouped into the Action Centre for Marxist-Leninist Unity, which evolved into the Marxist-Leninist Organisation of Britain. A small number formed the Finsbury Communist Association. Others later formed the Workers' Party of Scotland and the London Workers' Committee. In 1966 the London Workers' Committee split, becoming the \nWorking People's Party of England. \n\nSome of the Irish members of the CDRCU later joined the Irish Communist Group in 1965. When the latter organisation split, they went on to form the Irish Communist Organisation.\nNoel Jenkinson, a Protestant from Meath, was another Ireland-born member of CDRCU who had joined from the Communist Party of Great Britain. He later joined the Official IRA and was convicted for carrying out the 1972 Aldershot bombing. \n\"Vanguard\" continued publication until 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "58182388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58182388", "title": "Constanza Valdés", "text": "Constanza Valdés\n\nConstanza Valdés is a trans female Chilean political activist and parliamentary advisor.\n\nShe became the spokesperson for Broad Front in June 2017, making her the first trans spokesperson for a political organization. She supported a 2017 Gender Identity Law in Chile which simplifies the procedure for trans people to change their name and sex, though she criticized it for not going far enough.\n\nValdés was the legal advisor for Chilean group Organizing Trans-Diversities, an advocacy group for trans rights. She is currently an adviser to Chilean politician . Valdés is a member of the Chilean Pirate Party.\n\nValdés studied Law at University Diego Perales. In an interview with \"Qué Pasa\", she stated that she knew her gender identity when she was 18, but it took her five years to publicly identify as female, fearing it would cause her problems at university. She changed her legal name and sex on April 21, 2016. In a 2017 interview, Valdés said that she did not want hormone therapy or surgery, and described herself as a feminist.\n\n"}
{"id": "50387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50387", "title": "Containerization", "text": "Containerization\n\nContainerization is a system of intermodal freight transport using intermodal containers (also called shipping containers and ISO containers). The containers have standardized dimensions. They can be loaded and unloaded, stacked, transported efficiently over long distances, and transferred from one mode of transport to another—container ships, rail transport flatcars, and semi-trailer trucks—without being opened. The handling system is completely mechanized so that all handling is done with cranes and special forklift trucks. All containers are numbered and tracked using computerized systems.\n\nContainerization originated several centuries ago but was not well developed or widely applied until after World War II, when it dramatically reduced the costs of transport, supported the post-war boom in international trade, and was a major element in globalization. Containerization did away with the manual sorting of most shipments and the need for warehousing. It displaced many thousands of dock workers who formerly handled break bulk cargo. Containerization also reduced congestion in ports, significantly shortened shipping time and reduced losses from damage and theft.\n\nContainers can be made of weathering steel to minimize maintenance needs.\n\nBefore containerization, goods were usually handled manually as break bulk cargo. Typically, goods would be loaded onto a vehicle from the factory and taken to a port warehouse where they would be offloaded and stored awaiting the next vessel. When the vessel arrived, they would be moved to the side of the ship along with other cargo to be lowered or carried into the hold and packed by dock workers. The ship might call at several other ports before off-loading a given consignment of cargo. Each port visit would delay the delivery of other cargo. Delivered cargo might then have been offloaded into another warehouse before being picked up and delivered to its destination. Multiple handling and delays made transport costly, time consuming and unreliable.\n\nContainerization has its origins in early coal mining regions in England beginning in the late 18th century. In 1766 James Brindley designed the box boat 'Starvationer' with 10 wooden containers, to transport coal from Worsley Delph (quarry) to Manchester by Bridgewater Canal. In 1795, Benjamin Outram opened the Little Eaton Gangway, upon which coal was carried in wagons built at his Butterley Ironwork. The horse-drawn wheeled wagons on the gangway took the form of containers, which, loaded with coal, could be transshipped from canal barges on the Derby Canal, which Outram had also promoted.\n\nBy the 1830s, railroads on several continents were carrying containers that could be transferred to other modes of transport. The Liverpool and Manchester Railway in the United Kingdom was one of these. \"Simple rectangular timber boxes, four to a wagon, they were used to convey coal from the Lancashire collieries to Liverpool, where they were transferred to horse-drawn carts by crane.\" Originally used for moving coal on and off barges, \"loose boxes\" were used to containerize coal from the late 1780s, at places like the Bridgewater Canal. By the 1840s, iron boxes were in use as well as wooden ones. The early 1900s saw the adoption of closed container boxes designed for movement between road and rail.\n\nOn 17 May 1917, Benjamin Franklin Fitch inaugurated exploitation of the experimental installation for transfer of the containers called the demountable bodies based on his own design in Cincinnati, Ohio in US. Later in 1919, his system was extended to over 200 containers serving 21 railway stations with 14 freight trucks.\n\nPrior to the Second World War, many European countries independently developed container systems.\n\nIn 1919, Stanisław Rodowicz, an engineer, developed the first draft of the container system in Poland. In 1920, he built a prototype of the biaxial wagon. The Polish-Bolshevik War stopped development of the container system in Poland.\n\nThe US Post Office contracted with the New York Central Railroad to move mail via containers in May 1921. In 1930, the Chicago & Northwestern Railroad began shipping containers between Chicago and Milwaukee. However, their efforts ended in the spring of 1931 when the Interstate Commerce Commission wouldn't allow the use of a flat rate for the containers.\n\nIn 1926, a regular connection of the luxury passenger train from London to Paris, Golden Arrow/Fleche d'Or, by Southern Railway and French Northern Railway, began. For transport of passengers' baggage four containers were used. These containers were loaded in London or Paris and carried to ports, Dover or Calais, on flat cars in the UK and \"CIWL Pullman Golden Arrow Fourgon of CIWL\" in France. At the Second World Motor Transport Congress in Rome, September 1928, Italian senator Silvio Crespi proposed the use of containers for road and railway transport systems, using collaboration rather than competition. This would be done under the auspices of an international organ similar to the Sleeping Car Company, which provided international carriage of passengers in sleeping wagons. In 1928 Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR) started regular container service in the northeast United States. After the Wall Street Crash of 1929 in New York and the subsequent Great Depression, many countries were without any means of transport for cargo. The railroads were sought as a possibility to transport cargo, and there was an opportunity to bring containers into broader use. Under auspices of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris in Venice on September 30, 1931, on one of the platforms of the Maritime Station (Mole di Ponente), practical tests were done to assess the best construction for European containers as part of an international competition.\n\nIn the same year, 1931, in USA Benjamin Franklin Fitch designed the two largest and heaviest containers in existence anywhere at the time. One measured 17'6\" by 8'0\" by 8'0\" with a capacity of 30,000 pounds in 890 cubic feet, and a second measured 20'0\" by 8'0\" by 8'0\", with a capacity of 50,000 pounds in 1,000 cubic feet.\n\nIn November 1932 in Enola the first container terminal in the world was opened by PRR Pennsylvania RailRoad company. The Fitch hooking system was used for reloading of the containers.\n\nThe development of containerization was created in Europe and the US as a way to revitalize rail companies after the Wall Street Crash of 1929, which had caused economic collapse and reduction in use of all modes of transport \n\nIn 1933 in Europe under the auspices of the International Chamber of Commerce the International Container Bureau (French: \"Bureau International des Conteneurs\", B.I.C.) was established. In June 1933, the B.I.C. decided on obligatory parameters for containers used in international traffic. Containers handled by means of lifting gear, such as cranes, overhead conveyors, etc. for traveling elevators (group I containers), constructed after July 1, 1933. Obligatory Regulations: \n\nIn April 1935 BIC established second standard for European containers:\n\nFrom 1926 to 1947 in the United States, the Chicago North Shore and Milwaukee Railway carried motor carrier vehicles and shippers' vehicles loaded on flatcars between Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and Chicago, Illinois. Beginning in 1929, Seatrain Lines carried railroad boxcars on its sea vessels to transport goods between New York and Cuba.\n\nIn the mid-1930s, the Chicago Great Western Railway and then the New Haven Railroad began \"piggyback\" service (transporting highway freight trailers on flatcars) limited to their own railroads. The Chicago Great Western Railway filed a US federal patent in 1938 on their method of securing each trailer to a flatcar using chains and turnbuckles. Other components included wheel chocks and ramps for loading and unloading the trailers from the flatcars. By 1953, the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy, the Chicago and Eastern Illinois, and the Southern Pacific railroads had joined the innovation. Most of the railcars used were surplus flatcars equipped with new decks. By 1955, an additional 25 railroads had begun some form of piggyback trailer service.\n\nDuring World War II, the Australian Army used containers to help more easily deal with various breaks of gauge in the railroads. These non-stackable containers were about the size of the later 20-foot ISO container and perhaps made mainly of wood.\nDuring the same time, the United States Army started to combine items of uniform size, lashing them onto a pallet, unitizing cargo to speed the loading and unloading of transport ships. In 1947 the Transportation Corps developed the \"Transporter\", a rigid, corrugated steel container with a carrying capacity, for shipping household goods of officers in the field. It was 8' 6\" long, 6' 3\" wide, and 6' 10\" high (2.59 x 1.91 x 2.08 m), with double doors on one end, mounted on skids, and had lifting rings on the top four corners. During the Korean War the Transporter was evaluated for handling sensitive military equipment and, proving effective, was approved for broader use. Theft of material and damage to wooden crates convinced the army that steel containers were needed.\nIn April 1951, at Zürich Tiefenbrunnen railway station, the Swiss Museum of Transport and \"Bureau International des Containers\" (BIC) held demonstrations of container systems, with the aim of selecting the best solution for Western Europe. Present were representatives from France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, Great Britain, Italy and the United States. The system chosen for Western Europe was based on the Netherlands' system for consumer goods and waste transportation called \"Laadkisten\" (literally, \"loading bins\"), in use since 1934. This system used roller containers that were moved by rail, truck and ship, in various configurations up to a capacity of , and up to 3.1 x 2.3 x 2 metres in size. This became the first post World War II European railway standard UIC 590, known as \"pa-Behälter.\" It was implemented in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, West Germany, Switzerland, Sweden and Denmark.\nWith the popularization of the larger ISO containers, support for pa containers was phased out by the railways. In the 1970s they began to be widely used for transporting waste.\n\nIn 1952 the US Army developed the Transporter into the CONtainer EXpress or \"CONEX\" box system. The size and capacity of the Conex were about the same as the Transporter, but the system was made \"modular\", by the addition of a smaller, half-size unit of 6' 3\" long, 4' 3\" wide and 6' 10½\" high. CONEXes could be stacked three high, and protected their contents from the elements.\n\nThe first major shipment of CONEXes, containing engineering supplies and spare parts, was made by rail from the Columbus General Depot in Georgia to the Port of San Francisco, then by ship to Yokohama, Japan, and then to Korea, in late 1952; shipment times were almost halved. By the time of the Vietnam War the majority of supplies and materials were shipped by CONEX. By 1965 the US military used some 100,000 Conex boxes, and more than 200,000 in 1967. making this the first worldwide application of intermodal containers. After the US Department of Defense standardized an 8-foot by 8-foot cross section container in multiples of 10-foot lengths for military use, it was rapidly adopted for shipping purposes.\n\nIn 1955, former trucking company owner Malcom McLean worked with engineer Keith Tantlinger to develop the modern intermodal container. The challenge was to design a shipping container that could efficiently be loaded onto ships and would hold securely on long sea voyages. The result was a tall by wide box in -long units constructed from thick corrugated steel. The design incorporated a twistlock mechanism atop each of the four corners, allowing the container to be easily secured and lifted using cranes. After helping McLean create the successful design, Tantlinger convinced him to give the patented designs to industry; this began international standardization of shipping containers.\n\nThe first vessels purpose-built to carry containers had begun operation in 1926 for the regular connection of the luxury passenger train between London and Paris, the Golden Arrow/Fleche d'Or. Four containers were used for the conveyance of passengers' baggage. These containers were loaded in London or Paris and carried to the ports of Dover or Calais.\n\nThe next step was in Europe was after the Second World War. Vessels purpose-built to carry containers were used between UK and Netherlands and also in Denmark in 1951. In the United States, ships began carrying containers in 1951, between Seattle, Washington and Alaska. However, none of these services was particularly successful. First, the containers were rather small, with 52% of them having a volume of less than . Almost all European containers were made of wood and used canvas lids, and they required additional loading into rail or truck bodies.\n\nThe world's first purpose-built container vessel was the \"Clifford J. Rodgers\", built in Montreal in 1955 and owned by the White Pass and Yukon Corporation. Its first trip carried 600 containers between North Vancouver, British Columbia, and Skagway, Alaska, on November 26, 1955; in Skagway, the containers were unloaded to purpose-built railroad cars for transport north to the Yukon, in the first intermodal service using trucks, ships, and railroad cars. Southbound containers were loaded by shippers in the Yukon and moved by rail, ship, and truck to their consignees without opening. This first intermodal system operated from November 1955 until 1982.\n\nThe first truly successful container shipping company dates to April 26, 1956, when American trucking entrepreneur McLean put 58 \"trailer vans\" later called containers, aboard a refitted tanker ship, the , and sailed them from Newark, New Jersey to Houston, Texas. Independently of the events in Canada, McLean had the idea of using large containers that never opened in transit and that were transferable on an intermodal basis, among trucks, ships, and railroad cars. McLean had initially favored the construction of \"trailerships\"—taking trailers from large trucks and stowing them in a ship's cargo hold. This method of stowage, referred to as roll-on/roll-off, was not adopted because of the large waste in potential cargo space on board the vessel, known as broken stowage. Instead, McLean modified his original concept into loading just the containers, not the chassis, onto the ship; hence the designation \"container ship\" or \"box\" ship. (See also pantechnicon van and trolley and lift van.)\n\nDuring the first 20 years of containerization, many container sizes and corner fittings were used; there were dozens of incompatible container systems in the United States alone. Among the biggest operators, the Matson Navigation Company had a fleet of containers, while Sea-Land Service, Inc used containers. The standard sizes and fitting and reinforcement norms that now exist evolved out of a series of compromises among international shipping companies, European railroads, US railroads, and US trucking companies. Four important ISO (International Organization for Standardization) recommendations standardized containerization globally:\n\nBased on these standards, the first TEU container ship was the Japanese \"\" from shipowner NYK, who started sailing in 1968 and could carry 752 TEU containers.\n\nIn the United States, containerization and other advances in shipping were impeded by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC), which was created in 1887 to keep railroads from using monopolist pricing and rate discrimination but fell victim to regulatory capture. By the 1960s, ICC approval was required before any shipper could carry different items in the same vehicle or change rates. The fully integrated systems in the United States today became possible only after the ICC's regulatory oversight was cut back (and abolished in 1995); trucking and rail were deregulated in the 1970s and maritime rates were deregulated in 1984.\n\nDouble-stacked rail transport, where containers are stacked two high on railway cars, was introduced in the United States. The concept was developed by Sea-Land and the Southern Pacific railroad. The first standalone double-stack container car (or single-unit 40-ft COFC well car) was delivered in July 1977. The 5-unit well car, the industry standard, appeared for the first time in 1981. Initially, these double-stack railway cars were deployed in regular train service. Ever since American President Lines initiated in 1984 a dedicated double-stack container train service between Los Angeles and Chicago, transport volumes increased rapidly.\n\nContainerization greatly reduced the expense of international trade and increased its speed, especially of consumer goods and commodities. It also dramatically changed the character of port cities worldwide. Prior to highly mechanized container transfers, crews of 20–22 longshoremen would pack individual cargoes into the hold of a ship. After containerization, large crews of longshoremen were no longer necessary at port facilities, and the profession changed drastically.\n\nMeanwhile, the port facilities needed to support containerization changed. One effect was the decline of some ports and the rise of others. At the Port of San Francisco, the former piers used for loading and unloading were no longer required, but there was little room to build the vast holding lots needed for container transport. As a result, the Port of San Francisco virtually ceased to function as a major commercial port, but the neighboring port of Oakland emerged as the second largest on the US West Coast. A similar fate met the relation between the ports of Manhattan and New Jersey. In the United Kingdom, the Port of London and Port of Liverpool declined in importance. Meanwhile, Britain's Port of Felixstowe and Port of Rotterdam in the Netherlands emerged as major ports. In general, inland ports on waterways incapable of deep-draft ship traffic also declined from containerization in favor of seaports. With intermodal containers, the job of sorting and packing containers could be performed far from the point of embarking.\n\nThe effects of containerization rapidly spread beyond the shipping industry. Containers were quickly adopted by trucking and rail transport industries for cargo transport not involving sea transport. Manufacturing also evolved to adapt to take advantage of containers. Companies that once sent small consignments began grouping them into containers. Many cargoes are now designed to fit precisely into containers. The reliability of containers also made just in time manufacturing possible as component suppliers could deliver specific components on regular fixed schedules.\n\n, approximately 90% of non-bulk cargo worldwide is moved by containers stacked on transport ships; 26% of all container transshipment is carried out in China. For example, in 2009 there were 105,976,701 transshipments in China (both international and coastal, excluding Hong Kong), 21,040,096 in Hong Kong (which is listed separately), and only 34,299,572 in the United States. In 2005, some 18 million containers made over 200 million trips per year. Some ships can carry over , such as the \"Emma Mærsk\", long, launched in August 2006. It has been predicted that, at some point, container ships will be constrained in size only by the depth of the Straits of Malacca, one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, linking the Indian Ocean to the Pacific Ocean. This so-called Malaccamax size constrains a ship to dimensions of in length and wide.\n\nHowever, few initially foresaw the extent of the influence of containerization on the shipping industry. In the 1950s, Harvard University economist Benjamin Chinitz predicted that containerization would benefit New York by allowing it to ship its industrial goods more cheaply to the Southern United States than other areas, but he did not anticipate that containerization might make it cheaper to import such goods from abroad. Most economic studies of containerization merely assumed that shipping companies would begin to replace older forms of transportation with containerization, but did not predict that the process of containerization itself would have a more direct influence on the choice of producers and increase the total volume of trade.\n\nThe widespread use of ISO standard containers has driven modifications in other freight-moving standards, gradually forcing removable truck bodies or swap bodies into standard sizes and shapes (though without the strength needed to be stacked), and changing completely the worldwide use of freight pallets that fit into ISO containers or into commercial vehicles.\n\nImproved cargo security is also an important benefit of containerization. Once the cargo is loaded into a container, it isn’t touched again until it reaches its destination. The cargo is not visible to the casual viewer and thus is less likely to be stolen; the doors of the containers are usually sealed so that tampering is more evident. Some containers are fitted with electronic monitoring devices and can be remotely monitored for changes in air pressure, which happens when the doors are opened. This reduced the thefts that had long plagued the shipping industry. Recent developments have focused on the use of intelligent logistics optimization to further enhance security.\n\nThe use of the same basic sizes of containers across the globe has lessened the problems caused by incompatible rail gauge sizes in different countries. The majority of the rail networks in the world operate on a gauge track known as standard gauge, but many countries (such as Russia, India, Finland, and Lithuania) use broader gauges, while many others in Africa and South America use narrower gauges on their networks. The use of container trains in all these countries makes transshipment between different trains of different gauges easier.\n\nContainers have become a popular way to ship private cars and other vehicles overseas using 20- or 40-foot containers. Unlike roll-on/roll-off vehicle shipping, personal effects can be loaded into the container with the vehicle, allowing for easy international relocation.\n\nThere are five common standard lengths:\n\nUS domestic standard containers are generally and (rail and truck). Container capacity is often expressed in twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU, or sometimes \"teu\"). An equivalent unit is a measure of containerized cargo capacity equal to one standard (length) × (width) container. As this is an approximate measure, the height of the box is not considered. For instance, the \"high cube\" and the \"half height\" containers are also called one TEU. 48' containers have been phased out over the last ten years in favor of 53' containers.\n\nThe maximum gross mass for a dry cargo container is , and for a container (including the high cube) it is . Allowing for the tare mass of the container, the maximum payload mass is therefore reduced to approximately for , and for containers.\n\nThe original choice of height for ISO containers was made in part to suit a large proportion of railway tunnels, though some had to be modified. The current standard is high. With the arrival of even taller hi-cube containers at and double stacking rail cars, further enlargement of the rail loading gauge is proving necessary.\n\nWhile major airlines use containers that are custom designed for their aircraft and associated ground handling equipment the IATA has created a set of standard aluminium container sizes of up to in volume.\n\nSome other container systems (in date order) are:\n\nA full container load (FCL) is an ISO standard container that is loaded and unloaded under the risk and account of one shipper and only one consignee. In practice, it means that the whole container is intended for one consignee. FCL container shipment tends to have lower freight rates than an equivalent weight of cargo in bulk. FCL is intended to designate a container loaded to its allowable maximum weight or volume, but FCL in practice on ocean freight does not always mean a full payload or capacity - many companies will prefer to keep a 'mostly' full container as a single container load to simplify logistics and increase security compared to sharing a container with other goods.\n\nLess-than-container load (LCL) is a shipment that is not large enough to fill a standard cargo container. The abbreviation LCL formerly applied to \"less than (railway) car load\" for quantities of material from different shippers or for delivery to different destinations carried in a single railway car for efficiency. LCL freight was often sorted and redistributed into different railway cars at intermediate railway terminals en route to the final destination.\n\nLCL is \"a quantity of cargo less than that required for the application of a carload rate. A quantity of cargo less than that fills the visible or rated capacity of an inter-modal container.\" It can also be defined as \"a consignment of cargo which is inefficient to fill a shipping container. It is grouped with other consignments for the same destination in a container at a container freight station\".\n\nContainers have been used to smuggle contraband. The vast majority of containers are never subjected to scrutiny due to the large number of containers in use. In recent years there have been increased concerns that containers might be used to transport terrorists or terrorist materials into a country undetected. The US government has advanced the Container Security Initiative (CSI), intended to ensure that high-risk cargo is examined or scanned, preferably at the port of departure.\n\nContainers are intended to be used constantly, being loaded with new cargo for a new destination soon after having been emptied of previous cargo. This is not always possible, and in some cases, the cost of transporting an empty container to a place where it can be used is considered to be higher than the worth of the used container. Shipping lines and container leasing companies have become expert at repositioning empty containers from areas of low or no demand, such as the US West Coast, to areas of high demand, such as China. Repositioning within the port hinterland has also been the focus of recent logistics optimization work. However, damaged or retired containers may also be recycled in the form of shipping container architecture, or the steel content salvaged. In the summer of 2010, a worldwide shortage of containers developed as shipping increased after the recession, while new container production had largely ceased.\n\nContainers occasionally fall from ships, usually during storms; according to media sources, between 2,000 and 10,000 containers are lost at sea each year. The World Shipping Council states in a survey among freight companies that this claim is grossly excessive and calculated an average of 350 containers to be lost at sea each year, or 675 if including catastrophic events. For instance, on November 30, 2006, a container washed ashore on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, along with thousands of bags of its cargo of Doritos Chips. Containers lost in rough waters are smashed by cargo and waves, and often sink quickly. Although not all containers sink, they seldom float very high out of the water, making them a shipping hazard that is difficult to detect. Freight from lost containers has provided oceanographers with unexpected opportunities to track global ocean currents, notably a cargo of Friendly Floatees.\n\nIn 2007 the International Chamber of Shipping and the World Shipping Council began work on a code of practice for container storage, including crew training on parametric rolling, safer stacking, the marking of containers, and security for above-deck cargo in heavy swell.\n\nIn 2011, the MV Rena ran aground off the coast of New Zealand. As the ship listed, some containers were lost, while others were held on board at a precarious angle.\n\nSome of the biggest battles in the container revolution were waged in Washington, D.C.. Intermodal shipping got a huge boost in the early 1970s, when carriers won permission to quote combined rail-ocean rates. Later, non-vessel-operating common carriers won a long court battle with a US Supreme Court decision against contracts that attempted to require that union labor be used for stuffing and stripping containers at off-pier locations.\n\nShipping container architecture is the use of containers as the basis for housing and other functional buildings for people, either as temporary or permanent housing, and either as a main building or as a cabin or workshop. Containers can also be used as sheds or storage areas in industry and commerce.\n\nTempo Housing in Amsterdam stacks containers for individual housing units.\n\nContainers are also beginning to be used to house computer data centers, although these are normally specialized containers.\n\nThere is now a high demand for containers to be converted in the domestic market to serve specific purposes. As a result, a number of container-specific accessories have become available for a variety of applications, such as racking for archiving, lining/heating/lighting/powerpoints to create purpose-built secure offices, canteens and drying rooms, condensation control for furniture storage, and ramps for storage of heavier objects. Containers are also converted to provide equipment enclosures, pop-up cafes, exhibition stands, security huts, and more.\n\nPublic containerised transport is the concept, not yet implemented, of modifying motor vehicles to serve as personal containers in non-road passenger transport.\n\nThe ACTS roller container standards have become the basis of containerized firefighting equipment throughout Europe.\n\nOn September 5, 2008, the BBC embarked on a year-long project to study international trade and globalization by tracking a shipping container on its journey around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13258879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13258879", "title": "Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples", "text": "Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples\n\nThe United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP or DOTROIP) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on Thursday, September 13th. 2007, by a majority of 144 states in favour, 4 votes against, and 11 abstentions. The groundwork toward this declaration can be seen as far back as 1923 and 1925 in the works of Haudenosaunee Chief Deskaheh and Māori T.W. Ratana who attempted to bring issues of Canada and New Zealand's failure to uphold treaties to the League of Nations, United Nations' precursor.\n\nIn May 2016 Canada officially removed its objector status to UNDRIP, almost a decade after it was adopted by the General Assembly. By now the other 3 objectors have to varying degrees, also turned their votes.\n\nWhile as a General Assembly Declaration it is not a legally binding instrument under international law, according to a UN press release it does \"represent the dynamic development of international legal norms and it reflects the commitment of the UN's member states to move in certain directions\"; the UN describes it as setting \"an important standard for the treatment of indigenous peoples that will undoubtedly be a significant tool toward eliminating human rights violations against the planet's 370 million indigenous people, and assisting them in combating discrimination and marginalisation.\"\n\nUNDRIP codifies \"Indigenous historical grievances, contemporary challenges and socio-economic, political and cultural aspirations\" and is the \"culmination of generations-long efforts by Indigenous organizations to get international attention, to secure recognition for their aspirations, and to generate support for their political agendas.\" Canada Research Chair and faculty member at the University of Saskatchewan Ken Coates argues that UNDRIP resonates powerfully with Indigenous peoples, while national governments have not yet fully understood its impact.\n\nDue to the past and ongoing violence and abuse of Indigenous individuals and peoples, the UN created this non-legally binding declaration as an aspiration for how Indigenous individuals and peoples should be treated. The Declaration sets out the individual and collective rights of Indigenous peoples, as well as their rights to culture, identity, language, employment, health, education and other issues. It also \"emphasizes the rights of Indigenous peoples to maintain and strengthen their own institutions, cultures and traditions, and to pursue their development in keeping with their own needs and aspirations\". It \"prohibits discrimination against indigenous peoples\", and it \"promotes their full and effective participation in all matters that concern them and their right to remain distinct and to pursue their own visions of economic and social development\". The goal of the Declaration is to encourage countries to work alongside indigenous peoples to solve global issues, like development, multicultural democracy and decentralization. According to Article 31, there is a major emphasis that the indigenous peoples will be able to protect their cultural heritage and other aspects of their culture and tradition in order to preserve their heritage from over controlling nation-states.\n\nThe elaboration of this Declaration had already been recommended by the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action.\n\nThis declaration is a resolution, meaning it is not a law bearing document. Indigenous people are not considered a country [nation - state] and do not have right to international law protection through the international court of justice. Article 40 states that Indigenous peoples have right to fair procedures for the resolution of conflicts and dispute with countries or other parties, because Indigenous people cannot use the International court of justice, UNDRIP has no indication of which judicial power indigenous peoples are to bring disputes to.\n\nThe Declaration is structured as a United Nations resolution, with 23 preambular clauses and 46 articles. In most articles, an aspiration for how the State should promote and protect the rights of indigenous people is included (see Provision for further explanation). Major themes of the articles include:\n\nThe opening and Article 2 of the Declaration provide that “indigenous peoples are equal to all other peoples” (source). Besides asserting the rights that indigenous individuals and peoples’ have as other peoples, there are Articles (23 of the 46) pointing to how States should interact with the declaration. Most of the articles point to States working in conjunction with the indigenous peoples. Some measures countries are suggested to take are\n\nThe Declaration was over 25 years in the making. The idea originated in 1982 when the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) set up its Working Group on Indigenous Populations (WGIP), established as a result of a study by Special Rapporteur José Ricardo Martínez Cobo on the problem of discrimination faced by indigenous peoples. Tasked with developing human rights standards that would protect indigenous peoples, in 1985 the Working Group began working on drafting the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The draft was finished in 1993 and was submitted to the Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, which gave its approval the following year. During this the International Labour Organization adopted the Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989.\n\nThe Draft Declaration was then referred to the Commission on Human Rights, which established another Working Group to examine its terms. Over the following years this Working Group met on 11 occasions to examine and fine-tune the Draft Declaration and its provisions. Progress was slow because of certain states' concerns regarding some key provisions of the Declaration, such as indigenous peoples' right to self-determination and the control over natural resources existing on indigenous peoples' traditional lands.\nThe final version of the Declaration was adopted on 29 June 2006 by the 47-member Human Rights Council (the successor body to the Commission on Human Rights), with 30 member states in favour, 2 against, 12 abstentions, and 3 absentees.\n\nThe Declaration (document A/61/L.67) was then referred to the General Assembly, which voted on the adoption of the proposal on 13 September 2007 during its 61st regular session.\nThe vote was, \"in favour\" 143 countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Andorra, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bolivia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Estonia, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Micronesia (Federated States of), Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Namibia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Thailand, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.\n\n\"Against\": Australia, Canada, New Zealand, United States.\nAll four member states that voted against have their origins as colonies of the United Kingdom, and have large non-indigenous immigrant majorities and thriving indigenous populations. Since then, all four countries have moved to endorse the declaration in some informal way in which it would not actually become binding law pleadable in court. Canada, under a Conservative Party leadership made official public statements against the application of the UN DRIP in Canada, e.g.\n\nHowever, the Liberal Government elected to leadership in 2015, has unequivocally indicated Canada's support for the UN DRIP and is working on amending Canada's laws accordingly.\n\nAustralian government interventions have been challenged under its terms without success.\n\n\"Abstaining\", 11 countries: Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi, Colombia, Georgia, Kenya, Nigeria, Russian Federation, Samoa and Ukraine. Colombia and Samoa have since endorsed the document.\n\n\"Absent\": Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gambia, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Israel, Kiribati, Kyrgyzstan, Marshall Islands, Mauritania, Montenegro, Morocco, Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, São Tomé and Príncipe, Seychelles, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Tajikistan, Togo, Tonga, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Vanuatu.\n\nIn contrast to the Declaration's initial rejection by Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States over legal concerns (all 4 countries later switched their positions to accepting the declaration as a non-legally-binding document), United Nations officials and other world leaders expressed pleasure at its adoption. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon described it as a \"historic moment when UN Member States and indigenous peoples have reconciled with their painful histories and are resolved to move forward together on the path of human rights, justice and development for all.\" Louise Arbour, a former justice of the Supreme Court of Canada then serving as the UN's High Commissioner for Human Rights, expressed satisfaction at the hard work and perseverance that had finally \"borne fruit in the most comprehensive statement to date of indigenous peoples' rights.\" Similarly, news of the Declaration's adoption was greeted with jubilation in Africa and, present at the General Assembly session in New York, Bolivian foreign minister David Choquehuanca said that he hoped the member states that had voted against or abstained would reconsider their refusal to support a document he described as being as important as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Bolivia has become the first country to approve the U.N. declaration of indigenous rights. Evo Morales, President of Bolivia, stated, \"We are the first country to turn this declaration into a law and that is important, brothers and sisters. We recognize and salute the work of our representatives. But if we were to remember the indigenous fight clearly, many of us who are sensitive would end up crying in remembering the discrimination, the scorn.\"\n\nStephen Corry, Director of the international indigenous rights organization Survival International, said, \"The declaration has been debated for nearly a quarter century. Years which have seen many tribal peoples, such as the Akuntsu and Kanoê in Brazil, decimated and others, such as the Innu in Canada, brought to the edge. Governments that oppose it are shamefully fighting against the human rights of their most vulnerable peoples. Claims they make to support human rights in other areas will be seen as hypocritical.\"\n\nThe Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies formally acknowledges and upholds the principles of the Declaration in both their Collection Access and Use Policy and their Guidelines for Ethical Research in Australian Indigenous Studies.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the Declaration, and throughout the 62nd session of the General Assembly, a number of countries expressed concern about some key issues, such as self-determination, access to lands, territories and resources and the lack of a clear definition of the term \"indigenous\". In addition to those intending to vote against the adoption of the declaration, a group of African countries represented by Namibia proposed to defer action, to hold further consultations, and to conclude consideration of the declaration by September 2007. Ultimately, after agreeing on some adjustments to the Draft Declaration, a vast majority of states recognized that these issues could be addressed by each country at the national level.\n\nThe four states that voted against continued to express serious reservations about the final text of the Declaration as placed before the General Assembly. As mentioned above, all four opposing countries have since then changed their vote in favour of the Declaration.\n\nAustralia's government opposed the Declaration in the General Assembly vote of 2007, but has since endorsed the Declaration. Australia's Mal Brough, Minister for Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs, referring to the provision regarding the upholding of indigenous peoples' customary legal systems, said that \"There should only be one law for all Australians and we should not enshrine in law practices that are not acceptable in the modern world.\"\n\nMarise Payne, Liberal Party Senator for New South Wales, further elaborated on the Australian government's objections to the Declaration in a speech to the Australian Senate: \n\nIn October 2007 former Australian Prime Minister John Howard pledged to hold a referendum on changing the constitution to recognise indigenous Australians if re-elected. He said that the distinctiveness of people's identity and their rights to preserve their heritage should be acknowledged.\n\nOn 3 April 2009, the Rudd Government formally endorsed the Declaration.\n\nThe Canadian government said that while it supported the \"spirit\" of the declaration, it contained elements that were \"fundamentally incompatible with Canada's constitutional framework\", which includes both the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Section 35, which enshrines aboriginal and treaty rights. In particular, the Canadian government had problems with Article 19 (which appears to require governments to secure the consent of indigenous peoples regarding matters of general public policy), and Articles 26 and 28 (which could allow for the re-opening or repudiation of historically settled land claims).\n\nFormer Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development Chuck Strahl described the document as \"unworkable in a Western democracy under a constitutional government.\" Strahl elaborated, saying \"In Canada, you are balancing individual rights vs. collective rights, and (this) document ... has none of that. By signing on, you default to this document by saying that the only rights in play here are the rights of the First Nations. And, of course, in Canada, that's inconsistent with our constitution.\" He gave an example: \"In Canada ... you negotiate on this ... because (native rights) don't trump all other rights in the country. You need also to consider the people who have sometimes also lived on those lands for two or three hundred years, and have hunted and fished alongside the First Nations.\"\n\nThe Assembly of First Nations passed a resolution in December 2007 to invite Presidents Hugo Chávez and Evo Morales to Canada to put pressure on the government to sign the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, calling the two heads of state \"visionary leaders\" and demanding Canada resign its membership on the United Nations Human Rights Council.\n\nOn 3 March 2010, in the Speech From the Throne, the Governor General of Canada announced that the government was moving to endorse the declaration. \"We are a country with an Aboriginal heritage. A growing number of states have given qualified recognition to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Our Government will take steps to endorse this aspirational document in a manner fully consistent with Canada’s Constitution and laws.\"\n\nOn 12 November 2010, Canada officially endorsed the declaration but without changing its position that it was 'aspirational'.\n\nAnishinabek spiritual leader, Chief William Commanda (1908-3 August 2011) was honoured at the 21st annual week-long First Peoples' Festival held in Montreal from 2–9 August 2011, celebrating Canada's 2010 adoption of the U. N. declaration. AFN Innu representative, Ghislain Picard's tribute praised Grandfather Commanda for his work that was \"key not only in the adoption of the U.N. declaration, but in all the work leading up to it throughout the last 25 years.\"\n\nIn 2015, Romeo Saganash (a Cree Member of Parliament for Abitibi—Baie-James—Nunavik—Eeyou) sponsored Private Member's Bill C-641, the \"United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples Act\", which would have required the Canadian government to ensure that the laws of Canada are in harmony with UNDRIP but it was defeated on May 6, 2015.\n\nOn July 7, 2015 in an open letter to provincial cabinet members, Premier of Alberta Rachel Notley asked each minister to conduct a review of their policies, programs, and legislation that might require changes based on the principles of the UN Declaration.\n\nIn December of 2015, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission listed ratifying UNDRIP as one of its national \"calls to action\" in its final report.\n\nIn 2016, Canada officially adopted and promised to implement the declaration fully. Speaking at the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada minister Carolyn Bennett announced, \"We are now a full supporter of the declaration, without qualification. We intend nothing less than to adopt and implement the declaration in accordance with the Canadian Constitution.\" Bennett described the Declaration as \"breathing life into Section 35 [of the Canadian Constitution] and recognizing it as a full box of rights for Indigenous Peoples in Canada.\" In July 2016, Kwakwaka’wakw Justice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould gave a speech that stated that \"adopting the UNDRIP as being Canadian law are unworkable\", due to its incompatibility with the Indian Act, the current governing statute. \n\nThe federal government pledged on 21 June 2017 to rename its National Aboriginal Day to be consistent with the terminology used by the Declaration.\n\nIn September 2017, British Columbia provincial government announced that it will govern in accordance with the principles outlined in the Declaration.\n\nIn 2007 New Zealand's Minister of Māori Affairs Parekura Horomia described the Declaration as \"toothless\", and said, \"There are four provisions we have problems with, which make the declaration fundamentally incompatible with New Zealand's constitutional and legal arrangements.\" Article 26 in particular, he said, \"appears to require recognition of rights to lands now lawfully owned by other citizens, both indigenous and non-indigenous. This ignores contemporary reality and would be impossible to implement.\"\n\nIn response, Māori Party leader Pita Sharples said it was \"shameful to the extreme that New Zealand voted against the outlawing of discrimination against indigenous people; voted against justice, dignity and fundamental freedoms for all\".\n\nOn 7 July 2009, the New Zealand government announced that it would support the Declaration; this, however, appeared to be a premature announcement by Pita Sharples, the current Minister of Māori Affairs, as the New Zealand government cautiously backtracked on Sharples' July announcement. However, on 19 April 2010, Sharples announced New Zealand's support of the declaration at a speech in New York.\n\nSpeaking for the United States mission to the UN, spokesman Benjamin Chang said, \"What was done today is not clear. The way it stands now is subject to multiple interpretations and doesn't establish a clear universal principle.\" The U.S. mission also issued a floor document, \"Observations of the United States with respect to the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples\", setting out its objections to the Declaration. Most of these are based on the same points as the three other countries' rejections but, in addition, the United States drew attention to the Declaration's failure to provide a clear definition of exactly whom the term \"indigenous peoples\" is intended to cover.\n\nOn 16 December 2010, President Obama declared that the United States would \"lend its support\" to the Declaration. The decision was announced during the second White House Tribal Nations Conference, where he said he is \"working hard to live up to\" the name that was given to him by the Crow Nation: \"One Who Helps People Throughout the Land.\" Obama has told Native American leaders that he wants to improve the \"nation-to-nation\" relationship between the United States and the tribes and repair broken promises. Today, there are more than 560 Indian tribes in the United States that are recognized at the federal level, with some sixty-plus tribes recognized at the state level. Many had representatives at the White House conference and applauded Obama's announcement.\n\nThe Obama administration's decision came after three consultation meetings with Native Americans and more than 3,000 written comments on the subject. The support of the government also included several interpretations of the meaning of the Declaration. In the view of the United States government, the Declaration advances \"a new and distinct international concept of self-determination specific to indigenous peoples,\" which is not the same as the existing concept in international law. The statement also interprets free, prior, and informed consent, \"which the United States understands to call for a process of meaningful consultation with tribal leaders, but not necessarily the agreement of those leaders, before the actions addressed in those consultations are taken.\"\n\nSpeaking on behalf of the United Kingdom government, UK Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Karen Pierce, \"emphasized that the Declaration was non-legally binding and did not propose to have any retroactive application on historical episodes. National minority groups and other ethnic groups within the territory of the United Kingdom and its overseas territories did not fall within the scope of the indigenous peoples to which the Declaration applied.\"\n\nThe UK position was also clearly intended to prevent formal appeal of Canadian decisions to UK courts: Canadian indigenous peoples never accepted the 1982 constitution in which such appeal (regarding early treaties made with the Crown of the British Empire) was cut off. Under the prior 1867 constitution, 1920s Dominion of Canada and earlier law, which continue to apply to these peoples and treaties, the UN DRIP could have been pleaded in a UK court in conflicts between treaty and Canadian law. Calls to pursue this approach have been common among Canadian natives. \n\nFinland signed the International Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples when it was originally put forward. However the reindeer owners and Forest Administration (Metsähallitus) have a long dispute in the area of the forests. The UN Human Rights Committee ordered the Finnish State to stop logging in some of the disputed areas.\n\nUkraine, which initially abstained from adopting the Declaration, changed its approach to indigenous issues in response to the recent annexation of Crimea, asserting that Crimean Tatars are an Indigenous people. In May 2014, the country formally endorsed the UNDRIP.\n\nTen UN member states in the Pacific, all with indigenous majorities, were absent from the assembly at the time of the vote: Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu. It is unclear whether this represents the equivalent of deliberate abstention, or whether the country delegations were absent for some other reason. The constitutions of these states typically make mention of \"indigenous inhabitants\" and accommodate customary laws in at least part of their modern legal systems. The constitution of Papua New Guinea, for example, has an explanatory section on the \"underlying law\" being based on custom, while Sch.1.2. says that \"custom\" means \"the customs and usages of \"indigenous inhabitants\" of the country ...\" (emphasis added). It may be the case, therefore, that the governments of these states took the position that their own legal systems offered sufficient protection to their own indigenous peoples. There has been no suggestion at any time since decolonisation commenced in the 1960s and the present that indigenous people are absent from any of the ten countries.\n\nNonetheless, Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu are among countries in this group plagued by land grabbing in recent years. Researchers have warned that as much as 12% of the land surface of Papua New Guinea has been leased without informed consultation and consent from landowners, typically suppressing customary rights for 99 years. Given that land grabbing was recently ruled to lie within the remit of the International Criminal Court, it is a reasonable conclusion that legal systems in the Pacific, unsupported by UNDRIP, have insufficient built-in safeguards for the protection of indigenous rights.\n\nThere are also significant implications in the extractive sector for these states not having signed UNDRIP. Mining companies that are members of the International Council on Mining and Metals commit to respect the ICMM's position statement on indigenous peoples. However, ambiguity surrounds how or if member companies recognise when they are dealing with indigenous peoples. For example, Barrick Gold lists only its operations in North and South America as lying on indigenous land, yet operates in Fiji and Papua New Guinea (where a subsidiary has operated the Porgera gold mine since 2007). Another member, Newmont Mining, said in its 2011 Sustainability Report that it had been conducting mining exploration in Papua New Guinea for three years, yet its disclosures do not show how activities in this country may have followed the ICMM's Indigenous Peoples and Mining Good Practice Guide, first published in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17140790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17140790", "title": "Department of Agriculture and Aquaculture (New Brunswick)", "text": "Department of Agriculture and Aquaculture (New Brunswick)\n\nThe Department of Agriculture and Aquaculture in the Canadian Province of New Brunswick was formed when Shawn Graham became Premier on October 3, 2006. He split the departments, introducing a Bill On March 2, 2007 disbanding the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Aquaculture and creating the Department of Agriculture and Aquaculture and a separate Department of Fisheries. Once it received Royal Assent, the Bill was retroactive to October 3, 2006.\n\nThe first Department of Agriculture was created in 1882 by the government of then Premier Daniel Hanington.\n"}
{"id": "542366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=542366", "title": "Electoral Reform Society", "text": "Electoral Reform Society\n\nThe Electoral Reform Society (ERS) is a political pressure group based in the United Kingdom which promotes electoral reform. It seeks to replace the first-past-the-post voting system with one of proportional representation, advocating the single transferable vote. It is the world's oldest operating organisation concerned with political and electoral reform.\n\nThe Electoral Reform Society seeks a \"representative democracy fit for the 21st century.\" The Society advocates the replacement of the first-past-the-post and plurality-at-large voting systems with a proportional voting system, the single transferable vote. First-past-the-post is currently used for elections to the House of Commons and for most local elections in England and Wales, while plurality-at-large is used in multi-member council wards in England and Wales, and was historically used in the multi-member parliamentary constituencies before their abolition. It also campaigns for improvements to public elections and representative democracy, and is a regular commentator on all aspects of representation, public participation and democratic governance in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe ERS was founded in January 1884 as the Proportional Representation Society by the Victorian naturalist, archaeologist and polymath John Lubbock. The founding members included academics, barristers, and an equal number of Conservative and Liberal MPs. Famous early members included Charles Dodgson (better known as Lewis Carroll), C.P. Scott, editor of the \"Manchester Guardian\" and Thomas Hare, inventor of the Single Transferable Vote. Alongside its sister organisation, Proportional Representation Society of Ireland, the Society succeeded in getting STV introduced in local and then national elections in Ireland, and in numerous religious, educational and professional organisations.\n\nA PRS pamphlet of the 1920s described the organisation's aims thus:\n1. to reproduce the opinions of the electors in parliament and other public bodies in their true proportions\n2. to secure the majority of electors shall rule and all other considerable minorities shall be heard\n3. to give electors a wider freedom in the choice of representation\n4. to give representative greater independence by freeing them from the pressure of sectional interests (perhaps party discipline and back-room deals were meant]\n5. to ensure to parties representation by their ablest and most trusted members.\n\nAfter World War II the Society suffered from financial problems and a lack of public appetite for reform. When Fianna Fáil put to a referendum a proposal to revert to first-past-the-post voting twice (1959 and 1968), the Society, under the leadership of Enid Lakeman, led a successful campaign to keep the STV system in Ireland\n\nIn 1973 STV was introduced in Northern Ireland for elections to local councils and to the new Northern Ireland Assembly, and the Society and its staff were called upon to advise in the programme of education set up by the government to raise public awareness.\n\nInterest in proportional representation revived sharply in Britain after the February 1974 general election. From then on the Society was able to secure a higher public profile for its campaigns. In 1983 the Society was recognised by the United Nations Economic and Social Council as a Non-Governmental Organisation with Consultative Status.\n\nThe Society has campaigned successfully for the introduction of STV for local elections in Scotland, and led the call for a referendum on the voting system in the wake of the United Kingdom parliamentary expenses scandal as part of the Vote for a Change campaign. It is a founding member of the Votes at 16 Coalition.\n\nThe Society was later a principal funder of the YES! To Fairer Votes campaign in the unsuccessful bid for a Yes vote in the 2011 referendum on the Alternative Vote. Its Chief Executive, Katie Ghose, served as the campaign's chair.\n\nIn 2012, the Society criticised Government handling of its policy of elected Police and Crime Commissioners - which led to the lowest turnout in British peacetime history.\n\nIn August 2012 the Society predicted turnout could be as low as 18.5% and outlined steps to salvage the elections, mobilising support from both candidates and voters. The Government did not change tack, dubbing the prediction a \"silly season story\". Following the result (in which the national turnout was a mere 15.1%, even lower than the Society's prediction), the Society branded the Government's approach to elections as a \"comedy of errors\", views that were reiterated by Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper.\n\nThe Society led bids to change the Government's approach to introduction of Individual Electoral Registration, which the \"New Statesman\" dubbed \"the biggest political scandal you've never heard of\". Electoral Commission sources estimated as many as 10 million voters could disappear from the electoral roll under government plans, predominantly poor, young or black, and more liable to vote Labour. The Society succeeded in securing changes to the legislation.\n\nIn a 2014 report the society recommended several ways to make the European Union more accountable and argues that there is a democratic deficit. These included: better scrutiny of EU legislation by the British parliament, a voting system which gives voters more influence over individual candidates (e.g. single transferable vote) and recruitment of party candidates with a wider ranges of views on the EU.\n\nIn August 2016 the Society published a highly critical report on the referendum and called for a review of how future events are run. Contrasting it very unfavourably with the 'well-informed grassroots' campaign for Scottish independence, Labour supporter Ghose described it as \"dire\" with “glaring democratic deficiencies” which left voters bewildered. Ghose noted a generally negative response to establishment figures with 29% of voters saying David Cameron (a Remain supporter) made them more likely to vote leave whilst only 14% said he made them want to vote remain. Looking ahead, the society called for an official organisation to highlight misleading claims and for Ofcom to define the role of broadcasters are expected to play.\n\nIn February 2018 the ERS reported that hundreds of seats were being effectively 'reserved' by men, holding back women’s representation. Their report states that 170 seats are being held by men first elected in 2005 or before – with few opportunities for women to take those seats or selections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14232594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14232594", "title": "Financialization", "text": "Financialization\n\nFinancialization is a term sometimes used to describe the development of financial capitalism during the period from 1980 until 2010, in which debt-to-equity ratios increased and financial services accounted for an increasing share of national income relative to other sectors.\n\nFinancialization describes an economic process by which exchange is facilitated through the intermediation of financial instruments. Financialization may permit real goods, services, and risks to be readily exchangeable for currency, and thus make it easier for people to rationalize their assets and income flows.\n\nVarious definitions, focusing on specific aspects and interpretations, have been used:\n\n\n\"only debts grew exponentially, year after year, and they do so inexorably, even when—indeed, especially when—the economy slows down and its companies and people fall below break-even levels. As their debts grow, they siphon off the economic surplus for debt service (...) The problem is that the financial sector's receipts are not turned into fixed capital formation to increase output. They build up increasingly on the opposite side of the balance sheet, as new loans, that is, debts and new claims on society’s output and income.\n\n[Companies] are not able to invest in new physical capital equipment or buildings because they are obliged to use their operating revenue to pay their bankers and bondholders, as well as junk-bond holders. This is what I mean when I say that the economy is becoming financialized. Its aim is not to provide tangible capital formation or rising living standards, but to generate interest, financial fees for underwriting mergers and acquisitions, and capital gains that accrue mainly to insiders, headed by upper management and large financial institutions. The upshot is that the traditional business cycle has been overshadowed by a secular increase in debt. Instead of labor earning more, hourly earnings have declined in real terms. There has been a drop in net disposable income after paying taxes and withholding \"forced saving\" for social Security and medical insurance, pension-fund contributions and–most serious of all–debt service on credit cards, bank loans, mortgage loans, student loans, auto loans, home insurance premiums, life insurance, private medical insurance and other FIRE-sector charges. ... This diverts spending away from goods and services.\n\n\nJean Cushen explores how the workplace outcomes associated with financialization render employees insecure and angry.\n\nIn the American experience, increased financialization occurred concomitant with the rise of neoliberalism and the free-market doctrines of Milton Friedman and the Chicago School of Economics in the late Twentieth Century. Various academic economists of that period worked out ideological and theoretical rationalizations and analytical approaches to facilitate the increased deregulation of financial systems and banking.\n\nIn a 1998 article, Michael Hudson discussed previous economists who saw the problems that result from financialization. Problems were identified by John A. Hobson (financialization enabled Britain's imperialism), Thorstein Veblen (it acts in opposition to rational engineers), Herbert Somerton Foxwell (Britain was not using finance for industry as well as Europe), and Rudolf Hilferding (Germany was surpassing Britain and the United States in banking that supports industry).\n\nAt the same 1998 conference in Oslo, Erik S. Reinert and Arno Mong Daastøl in \"Production Capitalism vs. Financial Capitalism\" provided an extensive bibliography on past writings, and prophetically asked\nIn the United States, probably more money has been made through the appreciation of real estate than in any other way. What are the long-term consequences if an increasing percentage of savings and wealth, as it now seems, is used to inflate the prices of already existing assets - real estate and stocks - instead of to create new production and innovation? \n\nOther financial markets exhibited similarly explosive growth. Trading in US equity (stock) markets grew from $136.0 billion (or 13.1% of US GDP) in 1970 to $1.671 trillion (or 28.8% of U.S. GDP) in 1990. In 2000, trading in US equity markets was $14.222 trillion (144.9% of GDP). Most of the growth in stock trading has been directly attributed to the introduction and spread of program trading.\n\nAccording to the March 2007 Quarterly Report from the Bank for International Settlements (see page 24.):\nTrading on the international derivatives exchanges slowed in the fourth quarter of 2006. Combined turnover of interest rate, currency and stock index derivatives fell by 7% to $431 trillion between October and December 2006. \nThus, derivatives trading—mostly futures contracts on interest rates, foreign currencies, Treasury bonds, and the like—had reached a level of $1,200 trillion, or $1.2 quadrillion, a year. By comparison, US GDP in 2006 was $12.456 trillion.\n\nThe data for turnover in the futures markets in 1970, 1980, and 1990 is based on the number of contracts traded, which is reported by the organized exchanges, such as the Chicago Board of Trade, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, and the New York Commodity Exchange, and compiled in data appendices of the Annual Reports of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The pie charts below show the dramatic shift in the types of futures contracts traded from 1970 to 2004.\n\nFor a century after organized futures exchanges were founded in the mid-19th century, all futures trading was solely based on agricultural commodities. But after the end of the gold-backed fixed-exchange rate system in 1971, contracts based on foreign currencies began to be traded. After the deregulation of interest rates by the Bank of England and then the US Federal Reserve in the late 1970s, futures contracts based on various bonds and interest rates began to be traded. The result was that financial futures contracts—based on such things as interest rates, currencies, or equity indices—came to dominate the futures markets.\n\nThe dollar value of turnover in the futures markets is found by multiplying the number of contracts traded by the average value per contract for 1978 to 1980, which was calculated in research by the American Council of Life Insurers (ACLI) in 1981. The figures for earlier years were estimated on computer-generated exponential fit of data from 1960 to 1970, with 1960 set at $165 billion, half the 1970 figure, on the basis of a graph accompanying the ACLI data, which showed that the number of futures contracts traded in 1961 and earlier years was about half the number traded in 1970.\n\nAccording to the ALCI data, the average value of interest-rate contracts is around ten times that of agricultural and other commodities, while the average value of currency contracts is twice that of agricultural and other commodities. (Beginning in mid-1993, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange itself began to release figures of the nominal value of contracts traded at the CME each month. In November 1993, the CME boasted that it had set a new monthly record of 13.466 million contracts traded, representing a dollar value of $8.8 trillion. By late 1994, this monthly value had doubled. On January 3, 1995, the CME boasted that its total volume for 1994 had jumped by 54%, to 226.3 million contracts traded, worth nearly $200 trillion. Soon thereafter, the CME ceased to provide a figure for the dollar value of contracts traded.)\n\nFutures contracts are a \"contract to buy or sell a very common homogenous item at a future date for a specific price\". The nominal value of a futures contract is wildly different from the risk involved in engaging in that contract. Consider two parties who engage in a contract to exchange 5,000 bushels of wheat at $8.89 per bushel on December 17, 2012. The nominal value of the contract would be $44,450 (5,000 bushels x $8.89). But what is the risk? For the buyer. the risk is that the seller will not be able to deliver the wheat on the stated date. This means the buyer must purchase the wheat from someone else; this is known as the \"spot market\". Assume that the spot price for wheat on December 17, 2012, is $10 per bushel. This means the cost of purchasing the wheat is $50,000 (5,000 bushels x $10). So the buyer would have lost $5,550 ($50,000 less $44,450), or the difference in the cost between the contract price and the spot price. Furthermore, futures are traded via exchanges, which guarantee that if one party reneges on its end of the bargain, (1) that party is blacklisted from entering into such contracts in the future and (2) the injured party is insured against the loss by the exchange. If the loss is so large that the exchange cannot cover it, then the members of the exchange make up the loss. Another mitigating factor to consider is that a commonly traded liquid asset, such as gold, wheat, or the S&P 500 stock index, is extremely unlikely to have a future value of $0; thus the counter-party risk is limited to something substantially less than the nominal value.\n\nFinancial services (banking, insurance, investment, etc.) have become a key industry in developed economies, in which it represents a sizeable share of the GDP and an important source of employment. Those activities have also played a key role in facilitating economic globalization. In the wake of the 2007-2010 financial crisis, a number of economists and others began to argue that financial services had become too large a sector of the US economy, with no real benefit to society accruing from the activities of increased financialization. Some, such as former International Monetary Fund chief economist Simon Johnson, went so far as to argue that the increased power and influence of the financial services sector had fundamentally transformed the American polity, endangering representative democracy itself.\n\nIn February 2009, white-collar criminologist and former senior financial regulator William K. Black listed the ways in which the financial sector harms the real economy. Black wrote, \"The financial sector functions as the sharp canines that the predator state uses to rend the nation. In addition to siphoning off capital for its own benefit, the finance sector misallocates the remaining capital in ways that harm the real economy in order to reward already-rich financial elites harming the nation.\"\n\nEmerging countries have also tried to develop their financial sector, as an engine of economic development. A typical aspect is the growth of microfinance or microcredit, as part of financial inclusion.\n\nOn 15 February 2010, Adair Turner, the head of Britain’s Financial Services Authority, directly named financialization as a primary cause of the 2007–2010 financial crisis. In a speech before the Reserve Bank of India, Turner said that the Asian financial crisis of 1997–98 was similar to the 2008–9 crisis in that \"both were rooted in, or at least followed after, sustained increases in the relative importance of financial activity relative to real non-financial economic activity, an increasing 'financialisation' of the economy.\"\n\nBruce Bartlett summarized several studies in a 2013 article indicating that financialization has adversely affected economic growth and contributes to income inequality and wage stagnation for the middle class.\n\nOne of the most notable features of financialization has been the development of overleverage (more borrowed capital and less own capital) and, as a related tool, financial derivatives: financial instruments, the price or value of which is derived from the price or value of another, underlying financial instrument. Those instruments, whose initial purpose was hedging and risk management, have become widely traded financial assets in their own right. The most common types of derivatives are futures contracts, swaps, and options. In the early 1990s, a number of central banks around the world began to survey the amount of derivative market activity and report the results to the Bank for International Settlements.\n\nIn the past few years, the number and types of financial derivatives have grown enormously. In November 2007, commenting on the financial crisis sparked by the subprime mortgage collapse in the United States, Doug Noland's \"Credit Bubble Bulletin\", on Asia Times Online, noted,\n\nThe scale of the Credit \"insurance\" problem is astounding. According to the Bank of International Settlements, the OTC market for Credit default swaps (CDS) jumped from $4.7 TN at the end of 2004 to $22.6 TN to end 2006. From the International Swaps and Derivatives Association we know that the total notional volume of credit derivatives jumped about 30% during the first half to $45.5 TN. And from the Comptroller of the Currency, total U.S. commercial bank Credit derivative positions ballooned from $492bn to begin 2003 to $11.8 TN as of this past June...\nA major unknown regarding derivatives is the actual amount of cash behind a transaction. A derivatives contract with a notional value of millions of dollars may actually only cost a few thousand dollars. For example, an interest rate swap might be based on exchanging the interest payments on $100 million in US Treasury bonds at a fixed interest of 4.5%, for the floating interest rate of $100 million in credit card receivables. This contract would involve at least $4.5 million in interest payments, though the notional value may be reported as $100 million. However, the actual \"cost\" of the swap contract would be some small fraction of the minimal $4.5 million in interest payments. The difficulty of determining exactly how much this swap contract is worth, when accounted for on a financial institution's books, is typical of the worries of many experts and regulators over the explosive growth of these types of instruments.\n\nContrary to common belief in the United States, the largest financial center for derivatives (and for foreign exchange) is London. According to MarketWatch on December 7, 2006,\n\nThe global foreign exchange market, easily the largest financial market, is dominated by London. More than half of the trades in the derivatives market are handled in London, which straddles the time zones between Asia and the U.S. And the trading rooms in the Square Mile, as the City of London financial district is known, are responsible for almost three-quarters of the trades in the secondary fixed-income markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "1336869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1336869", "title": "Findev", "text": "Findev\n\nFindev Inc. (formerly TransGaming Inc.) is a real estate financing company, and former technology company, with its head office in Toronto. It was founded by Gavriel State, who ran the Linux product division at Corel. The current CEO is Sruli Weinreb. TransGaming's Graphics and Portability Group was acquired by NVIDIA in 2015, paving way to NVIDIA's first office in Canada, located in Toronto.\n\nIn 2016, TransGaming Inc. decided to change its business focus from technology and gaming to real estate financing. In August 2016 its last remaining gaming division, GameTree TV, together with its subsidiaries and offices in Tel Aviv and Kiev, were sold to TransGaming Interactive UK Limited, a subsidiary of General Media Ventures based in the United Kingdom. This company now carries on the GameTree TV business under the TransGaming name.\n\nCider was a technology marketed towards developers that allows Windows games to run on Mac OS X. It shared much of the same core technology as Cedega but was designed for video game designers and publishers. Like Cedega, Cider was a proprietary fork of Wine.\n\nAt the 2007 World Wide Developer Conference (WWDC07), Electronic Arts announced their return to the Mac, publishing various titles simultaneously on both PCs and Macs, using Cider on the Mac.\n\nIn a newsletter dated 2007-11-13, the company announced that Cider's improvements will be merging back into Cedega.\n\nGameTree Linux was a developer program dedicated to the further development of Cedega, which is a compatibility layer for running Microsoft Windows games on Linux.There are games that run on Cedega but not on Wine, and games that run on Wine but not Cedega. Users that want to play a specific game usually look for it on the games databases available on the web.\n\nSwiftShader is an advanced software renderer with Direct3D 8/9 class features, including shaders. SwiftShader was sold to Google in 2015 for $1.25 million USD.\n\nIn 2010 Transgaming launched their new app, GameTree TV, a cloud-based, on-demand entertainment platform for Smart TV. In 2012 Transgaming acquired the connected TV division of Oberon Media and integrated them into their GameTree TV platform.\n\nIn a press release dated 2008-08-20, TransGaming announced that they \"will utilize Sony DADC's SecuROM digital rights management (DRM) solution for all video game titles enabled through TransGaming's Cider portability engine for Mac games.\" TransGaming's use of SecuROM is notable because of the company's decision to use SecuROM technology for all Mac games enabled through Cider, irrespective of distribution channel (download vs. retail) and whether SecuROM was used for a game's Windows PC release.\n"}
{"id": "38410318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38410318", "title": "Followership", "text": "Followership\n\nFollowership is the actions of someone in a subordinate role. It can also be considered as a specific set of skills that complement leadership, a role within a hierarchical organization, a social construct that is integral to the leadership process, or the behaviors engaged in while interacting with leaders in an effort to meet organizational objectives. As such, followership is best defined as an intentional practice on the part of the subordinate to enhance the synergetic interchange between the follower and the leader. \n\nIn organizations, “leadership is not just done by the leader, and followership is not just done by followers.” This perspective suggests that leadership and followership do not operate on one continuum, with one decreasing while the other increases. Rather, each dimension exists as a discrete dimension, albeit with some shared competencies. \n\nThe study of followership is an emerging area within the leadership field that helps explain outcomes. Specifically, followers play important individual, relational, and collective roles in organizational failures and successes. “If leaders are to be credited with setting the vision for the department or organization and inspiring followers to action, then followers need to be credited with the work that is required to make the vision a reality.”\n\nThe term follower can be used as a personality type, as a position in a hierarchy, as a role, or as a set of traits and behaviors. Studies of followership have produced various theories including trait, behavioral attributes, role, and constructionist theories in addition to exploring myths or misunderstandings about followership.\n\nMilitary perspectives on good followership includes behaviors such as: knows themselves and seeks self-improvement, is technically and tactically proficient, complies with orders and initiates appropriate actions in the absence of orders, develops a sense of responsibility and takes responsibility for own actions, makes sound and timely decisions or recommendations, sets the example for others, is familiar with their leader and his job, and anticipates his requirements, keeps leader informed, understands the task and ethically accomplishes it, a team member, not a yes man. The U.S. Army has produced a new military doctrine called mission command that highlights the role of followers. It acknowledges one of Colin Powell’s principles of leadership that “the commander in the field is always right and the rear echelon is wrong, unless proven otherwise” Mission command doctrine was conceived from a wartime environment that enables followers in the field to act according to the dictates of the situation on the ground, giving them maximum discretion. In order to exercise mission command appropriately, commanders must embrace the principles of followership to succeed.\n\nIt is vital to understand that, without effective followers in nursing, our leaders face severe limitations. Current leaders and educators must share and promote the vision of enlightened followership if nursing is to achieve its potential. Research suggests that there is significant difference in organizational effectiveness among nurses with different followership styles – passive, alienated, conformist, pragmatist, or effective.\n\nThe appearance of followership in mainstream leadership education books has become more commonplace, including the works of Kouzes & Posner (2012), Jackson & Parry (2011), and Hurwitz & Hurwitz (2015)\n\nEffective followership training in the classroom is challenging because of media messages that preference leadership, internal schemas held by students that ignore followership, and cultural biases against it. Undergraduate and graduate students have been resistant to the idea of followership and followership has been interpreted as leadership poorly enacted or as settling for a lesser position. In recent years, attitudes have begun to change and students have noted that following is an expected, healthy part of a reciprocal relationship in social media and that it did not carry negative connotations.\n\nAlthough a student’s contribution in the classroom has such high significance, the college admissions system has yet to find a way to recognize and reward students who have continuously made these contributions. Given that outstanding classroom contributions have been ignored, yet play such a vital role, it is the responsibility of the college admissions system to find a way to identify them.\n\nFollowership, as defined by Hurwitz (2008), is “accepting or enabling [italics original] the goal achievement of one’s leader” (p. 11). In the context of franchising, the franchisee could be seen as a follower because he or she accepts the franchisor’s business idea and enables the franchisor’s goal achievement through the individual franchise operations. Leaders can begin by building organizational value for followers and followership; value is a process of incorporating the concept of followership into the organization’s culture, policies, and practices. Because leaders [franchisors] have followers [franchisees] it is their responsibility to set a vision, build trust, and inspire the followers with passion and hope.\n\nIn hospitality and tourism, being an effective follower is important for achieving the service-oriented goals of many operations. In hospitality operations it is often important for followers to work independently of their leaders to carry out important tasks. It has been suggested that incorporating followership into training and education in intentional, purposeful ways could assist operations in hospitality and tourism.\n\nThe Followership Learning Community (FLC) is a learning community within the International Leadership Organization (ILA) and is “dedicated to the development of knowledge, competencies, and programs concerning the leader-follower relationship. It is the first such academic or practice community devoted to the study of followership. It focuses on research, collaboration, and dissemination of ideas and information”. The current priorities of the FLC are to:\n\nThe relationship between leader/follower is ancient and is referenced throughout history. Examples of leader/follower partnerships are present in the great literatures and wisdom traditions of China such as the I Ching (1000-750 BC), India, and the aboriginal myths of Africa, Australia and the Native Peoples of North and South America. The best known advice from ancient philosophers came from Aristotle who believed, “He who cannot be a good follower cannot be a leader.” In his time, Aristotle perceived that followership was necessary, albeit mainly as a precursor to what he considered to be a more important role: leader.\n\nBaldasar Castiglione wrote about followers, following and followership in The Book of the Courtier in 1516. During Japan’s Edo or Tokugawa period (1603–1868), the Samurai were a class of followers – the very name samurai meant those who served.\n\nIn the modern era, followership research began with Mary Parker Follett (1868–1933) who believed that all individuals, regardless of their place in society, deserved respect. She wanted to give more power to individuals and ensure that individuals’ voices were not only heard but were also integrated into solutions. Not only were many of her ideas rejected in the 1930s and 1940s, later theorists also paid limited recognition to her work. Follett’s writings have also been underappreciated in contemporary research, despite the fact that her work served as a prelude to many of the developments in the management literature and are still considered timely and insightful by many. Management theorist Warren Bennis said of Follett's work, \"Just about everything written today about leadership and organizations comes from Mary Parker Follett's writings and lectures.\" \n\nFollowership research continued in 1955 when Hollander and Webb (1955) argued that leader and follower was not an either/or proposition in which leaders and followers were found at opposite ends of a continuum. They proposed that the qualities associated with leadership and followership were interdependent. Zelaznik published work in 1964 that focused on the leader-follower relationship by considering the dimensions of dominance vs. submissiveness and activity vs. passivity. Followers have been largely neglected in the study of leadership, an omission addressed by Robert Kelley in his seminal 1988 Harvard Business Review article “In Praise of Followers”. Kelley subsequently wrote The Power of Followership (1992), which preceded and influenced Chaleff (1995), Potter, et al. (1996), Thody (2000), Meilinger (2001), Latour and Rast (2004), Kellerman, (2007), Bossily (2007), and Hurwitz & Hurwitz (2015).\n\nIn 1994 the W.K. Kellogg Foundation provided a four year grant to study leadership that attracted 50 practitioners and scholars to “shed light on some of the most compelling topics in the field.” Three focus groups emerged from the Kellogg Leadership Studies Project (KLSP), one being the Leadership and Followership Focus Group. The conveners of this group were Ed Hollander and Lynn Offermann who published a bound collection of papers called The Balance of Leadership & Followership.\n\nThe next major organized activity to bring scholars and practitioners together on the subject of followership occurred in 2008 at Claremont University, chaired by Jean Lipman-Blumen of the Peter Drucker and Mastoshi Ito Graduate School of Management , Ron Riggio of the Kravis Leadership Center and Ira Chaleff, author of The Courageous Follower. Participants included researchers and practitioners mentioned in this article including Robert Kelley, Barbara Kellerman and others. In addition to focusing on the elevating aspects of followership, research was introduced on the problematic aspects of followership including the work of Thomas Blass on the famous Stanley Milgram experiments on obedience and by Jean Lipman-Blumen on why we follow toxic leaders. The book of essays by conference contributors, The Art of Followership, was published as part of the Warren Bennis Leadership Series with a forward by James McGregor Burns.\n\nParticipants in the KLSP went on to form the International Leadership Association (ILA) as a vehicle for keeping the dialogue alive. Similarly, participants in the Claremont conference went on to form the Followership Learning Community within the ILA with Ira Chaleff as its first chair. Both of these entities are continuing with this work.\n\nAdditional areas of followership that have been studied include:\nMissing from the present research are additional critical components of followership such as the ability to convert strategies into actions that deliver on the actual intent.\n\nFollowership theory offers promise for reinvigorating leadership research in rich new ways:\nRobert Kelley proposes seven areas for further followership research:\n\n1. World Events\n\n2. Culture\n\n3. Leader(ship)\n\n4. Follower qualities\n\n5. Role of the Follower\n\n6. Language of followership\n\n7. Courageous Conscience\n\nHe challenges the field to focus followership research more on “the big issues happening in the world” such as suicide bombers, religious fundamentalism, democratically elected dictators and corporate abuses of power.\n\nChaleff calls for a similar focus for research on susceptibility to extremism and the use and development of assessments to help people understand their own tendencies in order to pre-empt their expression in the presence of toxic leaders.\n\nOther behavioral traits of effective followership that have been proposed include: a belief in the importance of being a good follower, looks beyond themselves, values their own independence, follows while offering up ideas, self-motivated and self-directed, displays loyalty, considers integrity of paramount importance, functions well in change-oriented environments, functions well on teams, thinks independently and critically, gets involved, generates ideas, willing to collaborate, willing to lead initiatives, develops leaders and themselves, stays current, anticipates, drives own growth, and is a player for all seasons.\n\nThe traditional notion that leaders are active and followers are passive is mistaken and contributes to misconceptions about the organizational functions of superiors and subordinates. Behaviorists now recognize that active followers influence leaders at every level of the hierarchy, and that leadership itself is a process, not a person.\n\nThere are many myths about followership:\n\nFor more misconceptions, see Part 1 (Chapters 2-4) of \"Embracing Followership: How to Thrive in a Leader-Centric Culture.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87557", "title": "Gordon Riots", "text": "Gordon Riots\n\nThe Gordon Riots of 1780 were several days of rioting based on anti-Catholic feeling. They began with a massive and orderly protest in London against the Papists Act of 1778, which was intended to reduce official discrimination against British Catholics. Lord George Gordon, head of the Protestant Association warned that the law would enable Catholics in the British Army to become a dangerous threat. The protest evolved into riots and widespread looting. Local magistrates were afraid of reprisals and did not issue the riot act. There was no repression until the Army finally moved in and started shooting. The main violence lasted from 2 June to 9 June, 1780.\n\nThe Popery Act 1698 had imposed a number of penalties and disabilities on Roman Catholics in England; the 1778 Act eliminated some of these. An initial peaceful protest led on to widespread rioting and looting and was the most destructive in the history of London. Painted on the wall of Newgate prison was the proclamation that the inmates had been freed by the authority of \"His Majesty, King Mob\". The term \"King Mob\" afterwards denoted an unruly and fearsome proletariat.\n\nThe Riots came at the height of the American War of Independence, when Britain, with no large ally, was fighting American rebels, France, Spain, and the Dutch Republic. Public opinion, especially in middle-class and elite circles, repudiated anti-Catholicism and lower-class violence, and rallied behind Lord North's government. Demands were made for a London police force.\n\nThe stated intention of the Papists Act of 1778 was, as its preamble notes, to mitigate some of the official discrimination against Roman Catholics in the Kingdom of Great Britain. It absolved Catholics from taking the religious oath when joining the British Armed Forces as well as granting a few and limited liberties. There were strong expedient reasons for this change. British military forces at the time were stretched very thinly in what had become a global American War of Independence, with conflicts ongoing with France, Spain, and the new United States. The recruitment of Catholic people would be a significant help to address this shortfall of manpower.\n\nThe 1698 anti-Catholic laws had largely been ignored for many years and were rarely enforced. Because of this, many leading Catholics were opposed to the repeal of the Act, fearing it would stir up anti-Catholic sentiment for little practical return. It was also pointed out that large numbers of Catholics, recruited in Ireland and the Scottish Highlands, were already serving in the military. In spite of this, the government decided to press ahead with the Bill, and had it introduced in Parliament by Sir George Savile.\n\nThe Protestant Association of London had the support of leading Calvinist religious figures, including Rowland Hill, Erasmus Middleton, and John Rippon. Lord George Gordon became its President in 1779, in an effort to force the repeal of the Papists Act. An articulate propagandist, though eccentric, Gordon inflamed the mob with fears of Papism and a return to absolute monarchical rule. He implied that Catholics in the military would, given a chance, join forces with their co-religionists on the Continent and attack Britain. He enjoyed popularity in Scotland where he took part in a successful campaign to prevent the same legislation from being introduced into Scots law, although the Act continued in force in England and Wales and in Ireland. The success in obstructing the law in Scotland led Gordon to believe he could enjoy similar success in the rest of Britain. Early in 1780 Gordon had several audiences with King George III but was unable to convince him of what he saw as the dangers of the Act. George III initially humoured Gordon, but grew increasingly irritated with him and eventually refused any future audiences.\n\nThe political climate deteriorated rapidly. On 29 May 1780, Gordon called a meeting of the Protestant Association, and his followers subsequently marched on the House of Commons to deliver a petition demanding the repeal of the Act.\n\nAfter the first march to Parliament, further riots occurred involving groups whose grievances were nationalistic, economic, or political, rather than religious. Aside from the issue of Catholic emancipation, it has also been suggested that the driving force of the riots was Britain's poor economic situation: the loss of trade during the war had led to falling wages, rising prices, and periodic unemployment. As Rudé noted, there was no general attack on the Catholic community, \"the victims of the riots\" being distinguished by the fact they were \"on the whole, persons of substance\". Voting in parliamentary elections was restricted by a property threshold, so most Londoners were unable to vote and many hoped for reforms to make Parliament more representative of the people.\n\nShortly after the riots had broken out, the Duke of Richmond suggested that they were directly attributable to the passing of the Quebec Act six years before, a view that was ridiculed by many of his colleagues. Another suggested cause was Britain's weakened international position, which had arisen from the country's isolation in Europe and the disappointing news coming from the ongoing war. Some rioters were against the continuation of the war, and many strongly supported American independence, while others were angry that Britain's war effort was being mishandled by Lord North. In many cases a mix of issues blended together and drove people to take part in the rioting.\n\nOn 2 June 1780 a huge crowd, estimated at 40,000 to 60,000 strong, assembled and marched on the Houses of Parliament. Many carried flags and banners proclaiming \"No Popery\", and most wore blue cockades which had become the symbol of their movement. As they marched, their numbers swelled. They attempted to force their way into the House of Commons, but without success. Gordon, petition in hand, and wearing in his hat the blue cockade of the Protestant Association, entered the Commons and presented the petition. Outside, the situation quickly got out of hand and a riot erupted. Members of the House of Lords were attacked as they arrived, and a number of carriages were vandalised and destroyed.\n\nDespite being aware of the possibility of trouble, the authorities had failed to take steps to prevent violence breaking out. The Prime Minister, Lord North, had forgotten to issue an order mobilising the small number of Constables in the area. Those that were present in the House of Commons were not strong enough to take on the angry mob. Eventually a detachment of soldiers was summoned, and they dispersed the crowd without violence. Inside the House of Commons, the petition was overwhelmingly dismissed by a vote of 192 to 6.\n\nOnce the mob around Parliament had dispersed, it seemed to the government that the worst of the disorder was over. However, the same night a crowd gathered and attacked the Roman Catholic Sardinian Embassy Chapel in Lincoln's Inn Fields. Bow Street Runners and soldiers were called out and made thirteen arrests, although most of the ringleaders had managed to escape. The same night the chapel of the Bavarian Embassy in Warwick Street, Soho, was destroyed and crowds caused random violence in streets known to house rich Catholics.\n\nThe area of Moorfields, one of the poorest parts of the city, was the home of many Irish immigrant workers and had a large area of open ground where crowds could assemble. Despite the appeal of a prominent Irish merchant, James Malo, to the Lord Mayor, Brackley Kennett, no additional protection was offered to the area. During 3 June a crowd had gathered in Moorfields, and by nightfall it began to go on the rampage. Malo's house was amongst the many to be sacked and burned.\n\nNewgate Prison, where rioters arrested on June 2 were being held, was attacked and largely destroyed, as was The Clink. This allowed large numbers of prisoners to escape, many of whom were never recaptured. Severe destruction was inflicted on Catholic churches and homes and chapels on the grounds of several embassies, as well as on New Prison, Fleet Prison, and the house of the Lord Chief Justice, William Murray, 1st Earl of Mansfield. On June 7, called \"Black Wednesday\" by Horace Walpole, the riot reached its climax. An attempt on the Bank of England was narrowly averted when a combination of the London Military Association and regular troops repulsed rioters, resulting in heavy casualties.\n\nThe army was called out on 7 June and given orders to fire upon groups of four or more who refused to disperse. About 285 people were shot dead, with another 200 wounded. Around 450 of the rioters were arrested. Of those arrested, about twenty or thirty were later tried and executed. Gordon was arrested and charged with high treason, but was found not guilty. Brackley Kennett, the Lord Mayor, was convicted of criminal negligence for not reading out the Riot Act and given a £1,000 fine. The military units which dealt with the rioters included the Horse Guards, Foot Guards, Inns of Court Yeomanry, the Honourable Artillery Company, line infantry including the Queen's Royal Regiment (West Surrey), and militia brought in from neighbouring counties. The defence of the Bank of England was conducted by the 9th (East Norfolk) Regiment of Foot under the command of Thomas Twisleton, 13th Baron Saye and Sele.\n\nThe Riots damaged the reputation of Britain across Europe, where many saw British constitutional monarchy as an inherently unstable form of government. This came at a time when Britain was searching for allies, particularly Catholic Austria, in the American War of Independence to challenge the strong coalition the French had built. Britain had also initiated secret negotiations with Spain to end Spanish support of the United States. After learning of the riots, the Spanish government pulled back from peace negotiations with Britain, concerned that the disorder would lead to a widespread collapse of the current British administration.\n\nThe riots highlighted the problems Britain faced by not deploying a professional police force, a notion which was opposed as it was considered foreign and absolutist. The Earl of Shelburne shocked many the day after the riots broke out by proposing in parliament that Britain should consider forming a force modelled on the French police.\nThe riots destroyed the popularity of radical politician John Wilkes, who led troops against the rioters. Many of his followers saw this as a betrayal; some of them may have been among the rioters. A pamphlet and a book of poems defending the role of Gordon were written and published by the polemicist and hymn-writer Maria De Fleury.\n\nThe events at the Bank of England started a tradition where a detachment of soldiers, usually from the Brigade of Guards would march to the bank to perform security duties. Until 1963 the duty was performed by the Guards in Home Service Dress with bearskin, though tennis shoes were worn inside the bank. From that date until 31 March 1973 the detachment became more functional than ceremonial, doing their duties in service dress with automatic weapons.\n\nMaria Edgeworth's 1817 novel \"Harrington\" contains a vivid evocation of the Gordon Riots, with two characters readers would find unsympathetic taken for Papists and finding refuge in the home of the rich Spanish Jew, the father of the young Jewish woman at the centre of the love story.\n\nCharles Dickens' 1841 novel \"Barnaby Rudge\" depicts the Gordon Riots and features Lord George in a prominent role.\n\nJohn Creasey's 1974 novel \"The Masters of Bow Street\" depicts the Gordon Riots and the recalcitrance of Lord North to the establishment of a police force.\n\nIn Bernard Cornwell's \"Sharpe\" novels, the protagonist Richard Sharpe's mother was killed during the riots while he was still a child.\n\nMiranda Hearn's 2003 historical novel \"A Life Everlasting\" depicts the main protagonists caught up in the riots as innocent Londoners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2214558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2214558", "title": "History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt", "text": "History of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt\n\nThe Muslim Brotherhood is an Islamic organization that was founded in Ismailia, Egypt by Hassan al-Banna in March 1928 as an Islamist religious, political, and social movement. The group spread to other Muslim countries but has its largest, or one of its largest, organizations in Egypt, where for many years it has been the largest, best-organized, and most disciplined political opposition force, despite a succession of government crackdowns in 1948, 1954, 1965 after plots, or alleged plots, of assassination and overthrow were uncovered. Following the 2011 Revolution the group was legalized, and in April 2011 it launched a civic political party called the Freedom and Justice Party (Egypt) to contest elections, including the 2012 presidential election when its candidate Mohamed Morsi became Egypt's first democratically elected president. One year later, however, following massive demonstrations, Morsi was overthrown by the military and arrested. As of 2014, the organization has been declared a terrorist group by Russia, Egypt, UAE, Saudi Arabia and is once again suffering a severe crackdown.\n\nThe Muslim Brotherhood was founded in 1928 by Hassan al-Banna, along with six workers of the Suez Canal Company. Al-Banna was a schoolteacher, to promote implementing traditional, religious, Islamic sharia law into government and a social regression based on an Islamic ethos of altruism and civic duty, in opposition to what he saw as political and social injustice and to British imperial rule. The organisation initially focused on educational and charitable work, but quickly grew to become a major political force as well, by championing the cause of disenfranchised classes, playing a prominent role in the Egyptian nationalist movement, and promoting a conception of Islam that attempted to restore broken links between tradition and modernity.\n\nOn December 28, 1948 Egypt's prime minister, Mahmoud an-Nukrashi Pasha, was assassinated by Brotherhood member and veterinary student Abdel Meguid Ahmed Hassan, in what is thought to have been retaliation for the government crackdown. A month and half later Al-Banna himself was killed in Cairo by men believed to be government agents and/or supporters of the murdered premier. Al-Banna was succeeded as head of the Brotherhood by Hassan Isma'il al-Hudaybi, a former judge.\n\nIn 1952, members of the Muslim Brotherhood are accused of taking part in arson that destroyed some \"750 buildings\" in downtown Cairo — mainly night clubs, theatres, hotels, and restaurants frequented by British and other foreigners — \"that marked the end of the liberal, progressive, cosmopolitan\" Egypt.\n\nThe Brotherhood supported the military coup that overthrew the monarchy in 1952, but the junta was unwilling to share power or lift martial law and clashed with the Brotherhood.\n\nAfter the attempted assassination of then-president Gamal 'Abd al-Nasser, in 1954, a member of the secret apparatus was accused by the authorities of being the perpetrator of the attempt. Nasser then abolished the Brotherhood and imprisoned and punished thousands of its members.\n\nMany members of the Brotherhood were held for years in prisons and concentration camps, where they were sometimes tortured, during Nasser's rule. In 1964 there was a minor thaw when writer Sayyid Qutb was released from prison only to be arrested again along with his brother Muhammad in August 1965, when he was accused of being part of a plot to overthrow the state—to assassinate the President and other Egyptian officials and personalities—and subjected to what some consider a show trial. The trial culminated in a death sentence for Qutb and six other members of the Muslim Brotherhood and on 29 August 1966, he was executed by hanging.\n\nQutb became the Brotherhood's most influential thinker. He argued that Muslim society was no longer Islamic and must be transformed by an Islamic vanguard through violent revolution. To restore Islam from modern jahiliyya, Muslim states must be overthrown. While Qutb's ideology became very popular elsewhere, in Egypt the Brotherhood's leadership distanced itself from his revolutionary ideology, adhering instead to a nonviolent reformist strategy, to which it has remained ever since.\n\nNasser's successor, Anwar Sadat, became president of Egypt in 1970 and gradually released imprisoned Brothers and enlisted their help against leftist groups. The organisation was tolerated to an extent, but remained technically illegal and subject to periodic crackdowns. Eventually the Brotherhood was key in the assassination of Anwar Sadat.\n\nIn the 1970s, a large student Islamic activist movement took shape, independently from the Brotherhood. Sadat himself became the enemy of the Brotherhood and other Islamist groups after signing a peace agreement with Israel in 1979, and was assassinated by a violent Islamist group Tanzim al-Jihad on October 6, 1981.\n\nIn the 1980s, during Hosni Mubarak's presidency, many of the student Islamist activists joined the Brotherhood. The Brotherhood dominated the professional and student associations of Egypt and was famous for its network of social services in neighborhoods and villages. In order to quell the Brotherhood's renewed influence, the government again resorted to repressive measures starting in 1992. Despite mass arrests, police harassment and an essentially closed political system, Brotherhood candidates have made strong showings in several parliamentary elections.\n\nOver the next ten years the Brotherhood made repeated calls for a more democratic political system. In 1997 Muslim Brotherhood Supreme Guide Mustafa Mashhur told journalist Khalid Daoud that he thought Egypt's Coptic Christians and Orthodox Jews should pay the long-abandoned jizya poll tax, levied on non-Muslims in exchange for protection from the state, rationalized by the fact that non-Muslims are exempt from military service while it is compulsory for Muslims. He went on to say, \"we do not mind having Christians members in the People's Assembly...the top officials, especially in the army, should be Muslims since we are a Muslim country ... This is necessary because when a Christian country attacks the Muslim country and the army has Christian elements, they can facilitate our defeat by the enemy.\" According to The Guardian newspaper, the proposal caused an \"uproar\" among Egypt's six million Coptic Christians and \"the movement later backtracked.\"\n\nIn 2000, 15 MB deputies were elected to the Egyptian parliament. A book detailing the record of the MB deputies in the 2000-2005 Egyptian parliament (\"The Brothers in the 2000-2005 Parliament\") found its parliamentary leader Hamdy Hassan working vigorously to fight cultural expression the Brotherhood felt was unIslamic and blasphemous, from literature to beauty contests. Hassan accused the Minister of Culture (Farouk Hosny) of leading what Hassan called the `current US-led war against Islamic culture and identity`. Another Brotherhood MP (Gamal Heshmat) took credit for forcing culture minister Hosni to ban the publication of three novels on the ground they promoted blasphemy and unacceptable sexual practices.\n\nIn 2005, the Brotherhood participated in pro-democracy demonstrations with the Kifaya movement. In the 2005 parliamentary elections, the Brotherhood's candidates could only stand as independents under the emergency law, but identified themselves by campaigning under the most famous of their slogans - 'Islam Is the Solution'. They won 88 seats (20% of the total) to form the largest opposition bloc despite many violations of the electoral process. Meanwhile, the legally approved opposition parties won only 14 seats.\n\nMore than 1,000 Brothers were arrested before the vote's second and third rounds, and police blocked Brotherhood supporters from entering the polls in some districts, according to independent organizations monitoring the election. Brotherhood leaders also accused the government of changing the final count to lead to a victory for the ruling party candidate in seven districts, a concern echoed by independent monitors. More than 100 Egyptian judges signed a statement condemning \"aggression and acts of thuggery by supporters of the ruling party against the judges while...police forces stood idle.\n\nDuring and after the election the Brethren launched what some have called a \"charm offensive.\" Its leadership talked about its `responsibility to lead reform and change in Egypt.` It addressed the `Coptic issue` stating that `conditions` for Coptic Christians (Copts) would be better `under the Brotherhood group`, and Copts would be \"full citizens, not ahl-dhimma,\" and insinuated that the Brethren would do away with Egypt's decade's old church building-permit system that Coptic Christians felt was discriminatory. Internationally the Brethren launched an English-language website and some of the MB's leaders participated in an Initiative to `Re-Introduc[e] the Brotherhood to the West `, \"listing and addressing many `Western misconceptions about the Brotherhood.`\" An article was written for The Guardian newspaper under the title `No need to be afraid of us`; and another for American Jewish newspaper The Forward.\n\nThis campaign, however, was a direct threat to the Egyptian government and its position as an indispensable ally of the west in its fight against radical Islamist ideologues \"bent on the Islamization of society and permanent conflict with the West.\" The government responded by not only continuing to arrest the Brotherhood's leaders and squeeze its finances, but introduced an amendment of Article 1 of the Egyptian constitution. The amendment would (\"in theory\") have had the effect of \"allowing women, and Christians, to run for any position, including the presidency,\" by defining Egypt as `a state of citizenship` and remove the reference to Islam as `the religion of the state.` When challenged to vote for the new version of the article, the Brotherhood's members of parliament walked out of the legislative chamber.\n\nThe party has also reportedly been weakened by \"missteps\" that have alienated \"many Egyptians\" and reportedly played into the government's hands. In December 2006 masked Brotherhood students at Cairo's Al Azhar University staged a militia-style march, which included the \"wearing of uniforms, displaying the phrase, 'We Will be Steadfast', and drills involving martial arts. This betrayed the group's intent to plan for the creation of militia structures, and a return by the group to the era of 'secret cells'\", according to journalist Jameel Theyabi.\nOthers agreed it was reminiscent of the group's violent past and public outcry ensued.\n\nAccording to one observer: \"after a number of conciliatory engagements and interactions with the West\", the Brotherhood,\n\nretreated into its comfort zone of inflammatory rhetoric intended for local consumption: all suicide bombers are `martyrs`; `Israel` regularly became the Jews`; even its theological discourse became more confrontational and oriented to social conservatism.\n\nTwo years later the Egyptian government amended the constitution, prohibiting independent candidates from running for Parliament, these being the only candidates the Brotherhood could field. It also arrested thousands of its members, many of whom were tried in military courts. The state delayed local council elections from 2006 to 2008, disqualifying most MB candidates. The MB boycotted the election. The government incarcerated thousands of rank-and-file MB members in a wave of arrests and military trials, the harshest such security clampdown on the Brotherhood \"in decades.\" \n\nAll but one of the Brotherhood candidates lost their seats in the 2010 election marred by massive arrests of Brethren and polling place observers. The reaction of a Muslim Brotherhood spokesman to the election was: \"We lost seats and a much deserved representation in the parliament. But we won people's love and support and a media battle that exposed [irregularities in] the elections.\"\n\nFollowing the Egyptian Revolution of 2011 that overthrew Hosni Mubarak, the Brotherhood was legalized and emerged as \"the most powerful group\" and the \"most cohesive political movement\" in Egypt with \"an unparalleled ability to mobilize its followers\". Its newly formed political party—the Freedom and Justice Party—won almost half the seats in the 2011–12 parliamentary election (far more than any other party), and its presidential candidate Mohammed Morsi won the 2012 presidential election. However within a year there were mass protests against his rule and he was overthrown by the military.\n\nIn the January–February 2011 uprising itself, the Brotherhood remained \"on the sidelines\", despite having much to gain from a freer political environment, and the breaking off of some activist splinter groups from the Brotherhood. (Sources in the Brotherhood maintain state security forces threatened to arrest supreme guide Mohammed Badie if any Brethren participated.)\n\nOn 30 April 2011 it launched a new party called the Freedom and Justice Party. The party rejected \"the candidacy of women or Copts for Egypt's presidency\", although it did not oppose their taking cabinet positions. The party won 235 (including 22 allies) out of 498 seats in the 2011–12 Egyptian parliamentary election, almost double the next biggest vote-getting party.\n\nIn the first couple of years after the revolution, there was both cooperation and tension between the Brotherhood and (secular oriented) military. The Brotherhood supported the constitutional referendum in March which was also supported by the Egyptian army and opposed by Egyptian liberals, causing some Egyptians to speculate about deal between the military and the MB. The Brotherhood has denied reports of secret meetings with the ruling SCAF as \"pure lies and imagination.\" There was further criticism of the military after Brotherhood silence in the midst of violent clashes between revolutionaries and the military in late 2011. The refusal of the Muslim Brotherhood to join protests against military rule is said to have stopped the \"second revolution\". With regard to the continuance of thousands of secretive military trials, Human Rights Watch criticised the Brotherhood and other Islamists for only noticing what happened to their fellow Islamists, \"and not to the thousands of civilians standing military trial or sent to military jails\". Egyptian author Ezzedine C. Fishere wrote: \n\nThe Brotherhood, led by the old and the hardliners, has managed to alienate its revolutionary and democratic partners and to scare important segments of society, especially women and Christians. Neither the Brotherhood nor the generals showed willingness to share power and both were keen on marginalising the revolutionary and democratic forces. It is as if they were clearing the stage for their eventual showdown. \n\nIn mid-June 2012, the SCAF dissolved the parliament dominated by the Brotherhood and other Islamists.\n\nDespite earlier remarks by Supreme Guide Mohammed Badie that the Brotherhood would not \"field a candidate for presidency\" as victory and the position of a member of the Brotherhood \"at the helm of power\" might give a foreign power (Israel or the US) a pretext to attack Egypt, a former high level Brotherhood official ran for president in 2012 presidential election. Mohammed Morsi defeated Ahmed Shafiq, a former military officer and prime minister of Mubarak, in the run off. Not waiting for the official result, the Brotherhood declared their candidate the victor and filled Tahrir Square with demonstrators both in opposition to broad powers issued by the military that preclude the latter's subordination to a civilian government, and in fear that SCAF would announce Shafiq the winner of the election and new president. Tensions abated when Morsi was officially declared the election winner on 24 June.\n\nDuring the one year Morsi served as president serious public opposition developed within months. In late November 2012 Morsi 'temporarily' granted himself unlimited powers on the ground that he would \"protect\" the nation from the power structure left over from the Mubarak-era and the power to legislate without judicial oversight or review of his acts. He also put a draft constitution to a referendum that opponents complained was \"an Islamist coup.\" These issues brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to the streets in the 2012 Egyptian protests.\n\nOther complaints included the prosecutions of journalists, the unleashing of pro-Brotherhood gangs on nonviolent demonstrators; the continuation of military trials; and new laws that permitted detention without judicial review for up to 30 days, According to the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights (EIPR), an independent organization, under Morsi \"the Muslim Brotherhood is laying the foundations for a new police state by exceeding the Mubarak regime's mechanisms to suppress civil society.\" Persecution of minorities by Islamic radicals was ignored by Morsi. Two cases being the April 2013 firing on a funeral of Coptic Christians who had themselves been killed in sectarian attacks in the days before, and the June 2013 lynching in public view of four Shiites by (Sunni) Islamists\n\nBy April 2013, according to the Associated Press,\n\nEgypt has become increasingly divided between two camps, with President Mohammed Morsi and Islamist allies on one side and an opposition made up of moderate Muslims, Christians and liberals on the other, a schism essentially over the country's political future after decades of dictatorship. Opponents accuse Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood of seeking to monopolize power, while Morsi's allies say the opposition is trying to destabilize the country to derail the elected leadership.\n\nAdding to the unrest were severe fuel shortages and electricity outages—which evidence suggests were orchestrated by Mubarak-era Egyptian elites.\n\nIn late April the Tamarod (rebellion) movement was founded to campaign to collect signatures calling for Morsi to step down. On 29 June, it announced it had collected more than 22 million signatures. A day later somewhere between 17 and 33 million Egyptian protesters demonstrated across Egypt urging Morsi to step down A lesser number demonstrated in support of him.\n\nOn 3 July, the head of the Egyptian Armed Forces, General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, announced President Mohamed Morsi removal from power, suspension of the constitution, and new presidential and Shura Council elections. The crackdown that followed has been called more damaging to \"the Brotherhood's core organization\" than any \"in eight decades\".\n\nOn 14 August, the government declared a month-long state of emergency beginning at 16:00, and the military commenced raids to remove camps of Brotherhood supporters from sit-ins being held throughout the country. Violence escalated rapidly lasting several days and led to the deaths of 638 people—595 civilians and 43 police officers. Some 4000 were injured. In retaliation Brotherhood supporters looted and burned police stations and dozens of churches. By 19 August, al Jazeera reported that \"most\" of the Brotherhood's leaders were in custody. On that day Supreme Leader (Mohammed Badie) was arrested, crossing a \"red line\", as even Hosni Mubarak had never arrested him. Other high-profile members of the Brotherhood (including Khairat El-Shater, and Saad al-Katatni) were arrested or ordered arrested.\n\nOn 23 September, a court ordered the group outlawed and its assets seized. Two days later security forces shuttered the main office of the newspaper of the Freedom and Justice Party, and confiscated its equipment.\n\nGeneral leaders (G.L.) of the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt (المرشد العام لجماعة الإخوان المسلمون) are\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32876427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32876427", "title": "Immorality Act, 1927", "text": "Immorality Act, 1927\n\nThe Immorality Act, 1927 (Act No. 5 of 1927) was an act of the Parliament of South Africa that prohibited extramarital sex between white people and people of other races. In its original form it only prohibited sex between a white person and a black person, but in 1950 it was amended to apply to sex between a white person and any non-white person.\n\nThe act forbade any \"illicit carnal intercourse\" (which meant sex outside of marriage) between a \"European\" (i.e. white) male and a \"native\" (i.e. black) female, or vice versa. It imposed a penalty of up to five years in prison for the man and four years for the woman. It also prohibited \"procuring\" women for the purpose of interracial sex, and knowingly allowing premises to be used for interracial sex; both offences carried a penalty of up to five years imprisonment.\n\nIn 1950, the Nationalist government of DF Malan, in one of the first legislative acts of apartheid, introduced the Immorality Amendment Act, 1950 (Act No. 21 of 1950) to extend the prohibition to sex between \"Europeans\" and all \"non-Europeans\". This therefore included in the scope of the act people of mixed descent and people of Asian descent. The 1950 amendment came one year after the passage of the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act, which forbade marriages between white and non-white people.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Immorality Act, 1957, section 16 of which contained a similar prohibition of sex between whites and non-whites. The prohibition was finally lifted by the Immorality and Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Amendment Act, 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "28115913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28115913", "title": "Johannes Kringlebotn", "text": "Johannes Kringlebotn\n\nJohannes Kringlebotn (3 July 1898 – 1959) was a Norwegian newspaper editor. He edited \"Folketanken\" and, during the Nazi era in Norway, \"Stavanger Aftenblad\". After serving a treason sentence he returned in the 1950s to edit the historical revisionist newspaper \"Folk og Land\". He was involved in politics and organizational life in the interwar period, and was also among Norway's top-ten middle distance runners.\n\nHe was born in Bergen, but grew up in Østfold and Aust-Agder. His father was the manager of Holt Agricultural School. He was a brother of politician Berge Helle Kringlebotn. He was a member of Noregs Ungdomslag and Noregs Mållag during his younger days, and also competed for the sports club IL i BUL. In 1923 he was registered as among the top ten in two middle distance events; he was the ninth fastest Norwegian in the 800 metres (2:05.6 minutes at Dælenenga in August; the fastest Norwegian was later Nazi Charles Hoff) and the seventh fastest Norwegian in the 1500 metres (4:18.5 minutes at Dælenenga in June). He started his journalistic career in local newspapers as well as \"Den 17de Mai\" and \"Morgenbladet\". He edited the Risør newspaper \"Folketanken\" from 1923, succeeding Andreas Hansson.\n\nWhen the occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany started, he turned \"Folketanken\" into a Nazi newspaper, and in 1941 he was hired as editor of \"Stavanger Aftenblad\" as it was usurped by Nazis and Sven Oftedal was fired. He was editor from 18 April 1941 to 27 June 1942.\n\nHe lost his position at the war's end. During the legal purge in Norway after World War II he was tried in court for being a Nasjonal Samling member from September 1940, being the local party leader in Risør from October 1940, being acting mayor in Risør from January to April 1941, being a Hird member and holding several pro-Nazi speeches all over Norway between 1940 and 1942. He was also tried for several actions as editor of \"Stavanger Aftenblad\", among others the denouncing of salesman Josef Kvavik and illustrator Henry Imsland. The prosecutor wanted eight years of forced labour and confiscation of money, but in the Gulating Court of Appeal in August 1946 he was sentenced for treason to four years of forced labour. None of his money was confiscated. He was acquitted for several of the trial points.\n\nIn 1952 he became editor-in-chief of the historical revisionist newspaper \"Folk og Land\". He remained editor up to and including 1957, and was succeeded by former \"Fritt Folk\" editor and Nazi Odd Erling Melsom. Kringlebotn died in 1959.\n\n"}
{"id": "1594144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1594144", "title": "Kelly Key", "text": "Kelly Key\n\nKelly de Almeida Key (born March 3, 1983), known for her stage name Kelly Key, is a Portuguese-Brazilian pop singer.\n\nOf Portuguese descent, Key released her first, self-titled album in 2001 at the age of 17. Her first single was the song \"Escondido\" (\"Hidden\") in which she sang the suggestive lyics 'We went out to make out and to make love'. The song received lots of airplay thanks to her then-boyfriend, Brazilian funk singer Latino, who she had dated for years, and the risqué lyrics.\n\nHer big breakthrough was the song \"Baba\" (\"Drool\") which was the biggest hit in the country during 2001 and 2002. In the controversial song and music video, Kelly provokes an older man that ignored her when she was young and infatuated with him, but now that she's older, is sexually attracted to her. Thanks to the success of the song, the album went 2x platinum in Brazil and selling over 500.000 copies. In 2002 was released to international markets. Furthermore, Key's first two singles comprised highly explicit sexual content; although, the albums appealed predominantly to minors. The album would later tender two more successful singles: \"Cachorrinho\" (\"Little Dog\"), about a petulant man and his eventual apprehension of the reality of his relationship with his female boss, and \"Anjo\" (\"Angel\"), a sad ballad. Both songs received major airplay and were big radio hits.\nShe spawned a doll, a shoes line and lots of other products targeted at young girls during her early years. In the same year, Kelly received substantial exposure after appearing on the covers of various gossip magazines due to her divorce with Latino, which did not end amicably, and participation in a recent \"Playboy\" exposé. In 2002 was released Kelly Key en Español, a Spanish version of the debut album only in Latin America, selling a 50,000 copies, and also was released Remix Hits, a remix album for the LGBT clubs, selling 100,000 copies worldwide. On 2003 saw the release of Key's second album \"Do Meu Jeito\" (en: My Way). Following \"Baba\"'s legacy, the album's first single, \"Adoleta\", recited Key's difficult relationship with a younger man. Key also released \"Chic Chic\", song about the fame. The album sold 300,000 copies in Brazil.\n\nIn 2005, after changing the writers and producers of her first works, Key went through a transformation to her third studio album, Kelly Key 2005 which featured teen pop songs. The album featured the hits \"Escuta Aqui, Rapaz\" (\"Listen, Boy\") and a remake of Aqua's 1997 hit \"Barbie Girl\", selling about 100,000 copies in Brazil. In 2006 she released her last album on the Warner Music label, \"Por Que Não?\" (English: \"Why Not?\"), selling 45,000 copies. The album spawned the hits \"Pegue e Puxe\" (\"Reach and Pull\"), \"Shake Boom\" and \"Analista\" (\"Analyst\").\n\nIn 2007 Key released her first compilation, \"100% Kelly Key\", by Som Livre Records, her new label, selling 50,000 copies. The album released the smash \"Você é o Cara\" (\"You're the Dude\"), reaching her seventh number one single in Brazil. In 2008 Key released her fifth studio album \"Kelly Key\", rescuing adult themes and selling 40,000 copies. In 2009 Key left Som Livre Records to become a presenter.\n\nIn 2009 she became host of the Rede Record's TV show \"Hoje em Dia\" with other presenters. In 2010, she became host of her own TV show, the \"Game Show de Verão\". In 2011 she returned to music and released her first house music single, \"O Problema é Meu\" (\"The Problem is Mine\"), which featured DJ and producer \"Mister Jam\". On November 15, she released her debut English single, \"Shaking (Party People) for the LBGT charts. Currently, Brown is recording tracks for a 2012 album, produced by \"Mister Jam\" and inspired by LGBT songs.\n\nIn 2014 Kelly announced return to the stage, the first single \"Controle\", marks his return to music after 5 years dedicating herself exclusively to television. On February 3, 2015, the singer released her sixth studio album \"No Controle\", which contains a sound inspired by the rhythms kizomba, zouk and electronic music.\n\nKey has a great success with the LGBT people in Brazil, and she supports same-sex marriage in the country. She was a spokesperson to high-school age young adults in a campaign in which she said, \"Show how you've grown up. This Carnaval, use condoms.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12449963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12449963", "title": "LGBT rights in Bhutan", "text": "LGBT rights in Bhutan\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people in Bhutan may face legal challenges not faced by non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is illegal in Bhutan. The Penal Code (aticles 213 and 214) states that same-sex sexual acts (regardless of whether they were consensual or done in private) are punishable by a prison sentence of between one month to less than one year.\n\nLGBT people in Bhutan face little violence or persecution, though most Bhutanese do not know they even exist with the idea of being gay or transgender \"pretty much unheard of\". In recent years, due to Bhutan opening up more to the outside world, Bhutanese LGBT people have started to publicly come out and establish visible outlets for the LGBT community. As such, attitudes among the general population are changing.\n\nThe United States Department of State issues this warning to LGBT travelers to Bhutan: \"Although there are no laws that explicitly prohibit consensual same-sex sexual activity, laws against \"sodomy or any other sexual conduct that is against the order of nature\" exist. Under the Penal Code, a person can be imprisoned for as long as one year for engaging in such acts. One government official noted that prosecution under this law is rare, as criminal intent must be proven by the prosecution. There have been no reported cases of such charges.\n\nSome members of the Parliament of Bhutan have publicly called for the laws to be repealed.\n\nCurrently, Bhutan does not provide any form of legal recognition for same-sex couples.\n\nAccording to the Bhutan Medical and Health Council, anyone in good health aged at least 18 years and weighing at least 45kg (100 lbs) may donate. Until recently, there have been few restrictions on blood donations in Bhutan.\n\nIgnorance about homosexuality is common due to stereotypes in popular culture. Bhutanese culture does not share the typical Western view of heterosexuality and homosexuality. Some have referred to it as an openly bisexual society, although this is disputed. Women are more likely than men to be open about their sexual orientation. There are cultural and traditional struggles for those who seek acceptance. According to a 2016 Integrated Biological and Behavioral Surveillance (IBBS) survey, over 42% of transgender women and 23% of gay and bisexual men in Bhutan have attempted suicide more than once.\n\nBuddhism, the main religion of Bhutan does not condemn homosexuality. In 2015, Dzongsar Khyentse Rinpoche, Bhutan's most prominent Buddhist teacher, said that sexual orientation has nothing to do with who will reach enlightenment. He further stated that Bhutanese should not merely tolerate gay people but should respect them.\n\n\"Bhutan Observer\", one of the country's main weekly newspapers, has written a significant number of articles on LGBT issues which elicited a lot of interest making them the most commented articles on the paper's website. The Government-supported newspaper \"Kuensel\", meanwhile, has referred to gays as being the \"Third Gender\" in an article discussing HIV programmes targeted towards gay men.\n\nDasho Neten Zangmo, described as \"the most important woman in the country\" and the \"Iron Lady of Bhutan\", was the first senior Bhutanese government official to make a comment about gay Bhutanese, when she said in a speech in August 2014 to high school students: \"Romantic relationships, by the way, can be boy-boy or girl-girl.\"\n\nThe International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia was first celebrated in Bhutan in 2016. United Nations offices in the country launched a video campaign to defend the rights of LGBT people.\n\nThe Bhutan Kuen-Nyam Party has expressed support for LGBT rights.\n\nA same-sex couple who went public with their relationship in 2018 reported being fully accepted by their families and friends.\n\nOne of the first homosexuality opinion polls in Bhutan carried out by an exchange student at the Royal Thimphu College on campus with 150 participants resulted in the following responses in 2013. 60% of the respondents believed that homosexuality is immoral and 40% believed that homosexuality should be accepted and homosexuals protected from discrimination and harm. However, with only 150 participants and all of which were within a single area, the validity of the poll to be used as a national basis is very lacking.\n\nAccording to 2018 estimates from the United Nations Development Programme, there were about 9,100 men who have sex with men in Bhutan.\n\nIn 2017, the United States Department of State reported the following, concerning the status of LGBT rights in Bhutan:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35397243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35397243", "title": "Lèse majesté in Thailand", "text": "Lèse majesté in Thailand\n\nIn Thailand, lèse majesté is criminalized by Section 112 of the Thai Criminal Code. It is illegal to defame, insult, or threaten the king, queen, heir-apparent, or regent. The lèse-majesté law has been on the statute books since 1908. The punishment is three to fifteen years of imprisonment per count and has been described as the \"world's harshest lèse majesté law\" and \"possibly the strictest criminal-defamation law anywhere\". The social scientist Michael Connors has written that enforcement of Thailand's lèse majesté law \"has been in the interest of the palace.\"\n\nThere is no legal definition, however, of what actions constitute lèse majesté, and there is plenty of room for interpretation. The Supreme Court decided that the law also applies to any previous monarchs. Criticism of any privy council member also raised the question. Even \"attempting\" to commit lèse majesté, and making sarcastic comment about the King's pet have been prosecuted for lèse majesté.\n\nLèse-majesté complaints can be filed by any person against anyone else, and they must always be formally investigated. Details of the charges are rarely made public. A section 112 defendant always meets with obstructions from the beginning to the end of a case, especially when asking for a provisional release. There are months-long pretrial detentions, and those who are charged are routinely denied bail. The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention determined in August 2012 that the pretrial detention of an alleged lèse-majesté offender violated international human rights law. The courts seem not to recognise the principle of granting the benefit of the doubt to defendants. Judges have said that accusers did not have to prove the factuality of the alleged lèse-majesté material, but only to claim it is defaming in any way. Pleading guilty is seen as a move to seek a royal pardon.\n\nCoup makers, since the coup in 1976, have regularly cited a surge of alleged lèse-majesté as a prerequisite for overthrowing an elected government. The 2006 coup, when lèse-majesté was cited as one of the major reasons, marked a surge of the lèse-majesté cases. After the 2014 Thai coup d'état, Thailand had the highest number of lèse-majesté prisoners in the nation's history. The junta granted authority to army courts to prosecute lèse-majesté. In most cases, convictions result in harsh sentences. The longest recorded sentence was 60 years imprisonment (reduced to half because the defendant pleaded guilty). Secret trials and harsh punishments have also been used.\n\nAs lèse-majesté is listed as one of the offences relating to the security of the kingdom, according to section 7 of the Thai Criminal Code, even alleged offences committed outside the kingdom can be punished within Thailand.\n\nSection 112 of Thai Criminal Code currently reads as follows:\n\"Whoever defames, insults or threatens the King, the Queen, the Heir-apparent or the Regent, shall be punished with imprisonment of three to fifteen years.\"\n\nWhile the Constitution adds:\n\"the King shall be enthroned in a position of revered worship and shall not be violated. No person shall expose the King to any sort of accusation or action.\"\n\nThe penalty for lèse-majesté in Thailand was toughened from a maximum of seven years imprisonment during the premiership of royalist Tanin Kraivixien (1976–77). Also banned was criticism of any member of the royal family, royal development projects, the institution of royalty, the Chakri Dynasty, or any previous Thai king. These harsher provisions have been retained to the present day.\n\nIn 2007, controversy arose over whether criticism of members of Bhumibol's privy council also constituted criticism of Bhumibol. Police Special Branch Commander Lt Gen Theeradech Rodpho-thong refused to file charges of \"lèse-majesté\" against activists who launched a petition to oust Privy Council President Prem Tinsulanonda, declaring that the law only applied to members of the royal family. Two days later, he was demoted by Police Commander Seripisut Temiyavet. During the Songkran 2009 unrest, Thaksin Shinawatra accused the privy council president of masterminding the 2006 military coup. Royalists chose to interpret this as an attack on Bhumibol himself.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Thailand that the law also applies to any previous monarchs.\n\nIn a Kafkaesque twist, even calls to reform lèse-majesté laws have, themselves, resulted in charges of lèse-majesté. Political scientist Giles Ungpakorn noted that \"the \"lèse-majesté\" laws are not really designed to protect the institution of the monarchy. In the past, the laws have been used to protect governments and to shield military coups from lawful criticism. This whole [royal] image is created to bolster a conservative elite well beyond the walls of the palace.\" However, Conners argued that some even used it as a political weapon, but it has been in the interest of the palace.\n\nIn 2013, a man was found guilty of \"preparing and attempting\" to commit an act of lèse-majesté. He had images and captions deemed to defame or threaten the royal family in his electronic device—which, his accusers said, potentially could have been connected to the Internet and been spread online. But the police seized the material before it was posted. He was found guilty, despite the law providing that mere preparation of the act is not a legal offence.\n\nIn 2016, a singer and activist, in addition to his prison sentence for defaming the monarchy, was ordered to write a song promoting \"national reconciliation\" after completing his sentence.\n\nIn 2013, a person filed lèse-majesté charges against his brother, showing how easily the lèse-majesté law can be misused and that the law has now become a potential weapon in family feuds. Often the police, courts, and prosecutors are afraid they will be accused of disloyalty to the monarch if they fail to prosecute allegations of lèse-majesté.\n\nDetails of the charges are rarely made public for fear of compounding the offence by repeating the original words deemed to have been insulting.\n\nArticle 14 of the Computer Crimes Act BE 2550 (2007), which broadly bars the circulation through computer systems of information and material deemed detrimental to national security, has also been used to prosecute cases of lèse-majesté.\n\nIn the case of Ampon Tangnoppakul, the Criminal Court found that:\n\n\"The prosecutor could not expressly prove that the defendant sent the messages as mentioned in the charge...but the grounds for his inability to introduce any eyewitnesses are the serious nature of the offence in question, to such an extent that a person intending to commit it would conduct the commission in absence of others...It needs to derive the guilt from the circumstantial evidence introduced by the prosecutor...And every circumstance evidence adduced by the prosecutor could firmly, proximately and reasonably indicate all circumstances giving rise to an absolute belief that during the periods of time aforementioned, the defendant sent the four messages as accused.\"\n\nAs to why the court did not grant the benefit of the doubt to Ampon, Court of Justice spokesperson Sitthisak Wanachaikit replied:\n\n\"When the public prosecutor who institutes the proceedings can exercise his burden of proof to the extent of bringing to light the evil intent of the defendant...the defendant needs to be punished according to the gravity of the case.\"\n\nThe courts sometimes use videoconferencing systems for court proceedings, so that defendants do not have to be physically present in the court. Judges have also said the accuser did not necessarily have to prove the information was factual \"because if it is true, it is more defamatory, and if it isn't true, then it's super-defamatory.\" Detainees are seen barefoot and shackled at the ankles when brought to court, while two detainees have died in military custody. One hanged himself, and the other died of a blood infection, according to his autopsy.\n\nPleading guilty to committing lèse-majesté is seen as a move to seek a royal pardon if a person is handed a lengthy prison term. One commented that it was the king's generosity and sense of fair play that led him to grant pardons for lèse-majesté convictions.\n\nIn 1976, a man was arrested on charges of lèse-majesté for using a royal village scout scarf to wipe a table. In 1988, a politician served four year imprisonment for suggesting that life would have been easier had he been born in\nthe palace.\n\nActs deemed insulting to Bhumibol's image are also considered as criminal offences under the doctrine of lèse-majesté in Thailand. This includes placing photographs of anybody on a website in such a way as to appear above photographs of the king. In March 2007 Oliver Jufer, a Swiss man, was sentenced to 10 years in jail for daubing black paint on portraits of Bhumibol while drunk in Chiang Mai, although he received a royal pardon the following month.\n\nSuwicha Thakor was arrested and sentenced to 20 years in prison, later commuted to 10, for posting a picture on an Internet web board that was deemed insulting to Bhumibol, thereby violating section 112 of the Criminal Code and violating the Computer Crime Act (CCA) of 2007. The CCA was passed by the military junta following the 2006 coup. Suwicha's conviction was the first time that it had been successfully used to prosecute lèse-majesté. A nurse wearing black on Bhumibol Adulyadej's birthday was charged with lèse majesté. In 2015, \"Prachatai\" published an infographic showing that bathroom graffiti, a hand gesture, a hearsay report of a taxi conversation, and not standing during the playing of the royal anthem, among other things, could be punished as acts of lèse-majesté.\n\nMichael Kelly Connors, a professor in social science from University of Nottingham, wrote that the king had dual position: an agent of political and economic interests and the soul of the nation of glaring disparity between social classes, and thus required controlled imagery. Lèse majesté was enforced actively since 1976. Lèse majesté changed from offense against the monarchy to offense against national security in 1957.\n\nThe stage-managed role of the monarch, the compulsory respect shown to the institution, and the pressure of social conformity left many\npeople with a taste of bitterness which few felt confident to express. Thai elites feared that Thai monarchy will be subjected to mockery once it was open to scrutiny, just like the British monarchy.\n\nPremier Thaksin Shinawatra and royalist activist Sondhi Limthongkul both filed charges of lèse majesté against each other during the 2005–2006 political crisis. Thaksin's alleged lèse-majesté was one of the stated reasons for the Thai military's 2006 coup.\n\nDuring his birthday speech in 2005, King Bhumibol Adulyadej encouraged criticism of himself:\n\n\"Actually, I must also be criticised. I am not afraid of the criticism concerning what I do wrong, because then I know. If you say the king cannot be criticised, it means that the king is not human. [...] If the king can do no wrong, it is akin to looking down upon him, because the king is not being treated as a human being. But the king can do wrong...If someone offers criticisms suggesting that the king is wrong, then I would like to be informed of their opinion. If I am not, that could be problematic... If we hold that the king cannot be criticised or violated, then the king ends up in a difficult situation.\"\n\nAfter the 2006 Thai coup d'état, dozens of radio stations have also been shut down due to alleged lèse majesté insults.\n\nAcademics have been investigated, imprisoned, and forced into exile over accusations of lèse-majesté. In 2007, Boonsong Chaisingkananon of Silpakorn University was the subject of a police investigation for asking students in an exam to discuss whether the monarchy was necessary in principle for Thai society and if it could be reformed to be consistent with democracy. Prominent historian Somsak Jeamteerasakul was arrested for proposing an eight-point plan on the reform of the monarchy. Somsak declared that he had never proposed to overthrow the monarchy and had never insulted Bhumibol personally.\nProfessor Giles Ji Ungpakorn went into exile after his book, \"A Coup for the Rich\", questioned Bhumibol's role in the 2006 coup.\n\nObservers attribute the increasing number of lèse-majesté cases in recent years to King Bhumibol's public invitation of criticism in 2005, increased polarization following the 2006 military coup, and to speculation over his declining health.\n\nDuring the government of Yingluck Shinawatra, the number of arrests and convictions for lèse-majesté offences significantly declined. However, she said she would not seek to reform the law. There were 478 cases in 2010.\n\nIn May 2014, the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), the military junta, granted authority to a military tribunal to prosecute lèse-majesté in Thailand. Military courts have routinely imposed harsher sentences than civilian courts would. In August 2015, the Bangkok Military Court sentenced Pongsak Sriboonpeng to 60 years in prison for his six Facebook postings (later reduced to 30 years, when he pleaded guilty). It was Thailand's longest recorded sentence for lèse-majesté. The courts were dubbed \"kangaroo courts.\"\n\nHuman rights groups say the lèse-majesté laws have been used as a political weapon to stifle free speech. iLaw, a Thai non-profit organization seeking legislative change, released a 2014 annual report which details changes after the 2014 coup. The junta issued orders and invoked martial law to hold persons in custody for seven days without pressing any charges against them. Secret trials were used. The officials seized personal communication devices to search for incriminating evidence.\n\nIn December 2014, parents of Srirasmi Suwadee, formerly a Thai princess, were sentenced for “insulting the royal family and lodging a malicious claim.” In 2015, the Minister of Justice asked the French ambassador to help extradite Thais charged with lèse-majesté; however, the military government has never successfully extradited someone living abroad. In November 2015, Glyn T. Davies, the US ambassador to Thailand, was investigated for a speech criticizing long prison sentences handed to those found guilty of lèse-majesté. Critics accuse the junta of harnessing the deep reverence that Thais have for the king to boost their own power. In 2016, Facebook blocked users in Thailand from accessing a page satirizing Thailand’s royal family, citing the lèse-majesté law. Around the same time, there was speculation that the junta was able to obtain private chat logs of Facebookers. In May 2017, the military junta stated that merely viewing material considered lèse-majesté would be a violation of the law.\n\nIn December 2016, Jatupat “Pai” Boonpattararaksa, a rights group member was accused of lèse majesté for sharing BBC Thai biography of Thailand's new king Vajiralongkorn. He was the only person to be arrested even though more than 2,600 people also shared the story. As of November 2018, at least 127 persons have been charged with lèse majesté since the latest coup.\n\nOf particular concern to Thailand relating to the Internet are (1) malicious comments made against the institution of the monarchy and the royal families, who are by law not in a position to defend themselves, (2) improper content and language aimed at inciting hatred and undermining national security for political or other reasons, and (3) pornographic content, in particular child pornography.\n\nThe government, through the Office of Prevention and Suppression of Information Technology Crimes, maintains a \"war room\" where about a dozen computer specialists monitor the content of the Internet for pages which disparage the monarchy or pose a threat to national security. A web crawler is used to search widely. When an offending image or language is found the office obtains a court order blocking the site. On 28 October 2008, The Ministry of Information and Communication Technology (MICT) announced plans to spend about 100–500 million baht to build a gateway to block websites with contents defaming the royal institution.\n\nIn 2008, \"more than 4,800 webpages ha[d] been blocked...because they contain[ed] content deemed insulting to Thailand's royal family\". As of December 2010, nearly 60,000 websites have been banned for alleged insults against Bhumibol. As of 2011, 70,000 pages had been blocked over a four-year period.\n\nOn 4 April 2007, the Thai government blocked Thai access to YouTube as a result of a video clip which it deemed insulting to the king. Various leaders of the military junta claimed that the clip was an attempt to undermine the monarchy, attack Thailand as a country, and threaten national security.\n\nThe website of Same Sky Books, publishers of \"Same Sky\" magazine, was shut down by the military government after comments on its bulletin board questioned claims made by the Thai media that the entire country was in mourning over the death of Princess Galyani Vadhana.\n\nIn December 2015, the court verdict against Chiranuch Premchaiporn, webmaster of the news website \"Prachatai\", was upheld in the highest court: \"an eight-month suspended jail sentence and a 20,000 baht fine\". Previously, she had been jailed without bail for nearly a year for not removing—in 2008—an allegedly insulting comment from an article fast enough. Although the comments did not directly mention Bhumibol or members of his family, the court found that Chiranuch displayed insulting intent. Arrested in September 2010, she could face up to 50 years imprisonment if found guilty.\n\nA Thai official said that the lèse majesté law is similar to libel law for commoners. Some abuse their rights by spreading hate speeches or distorted information to incite hatred towards the monarchical institution. Those who were accused of lèse majesté had right to fair trial, due opportunity to contest the charges and assistance from lawyer, as well as the right to appeal.\n\nIn May 2016, Justice Minister remarked on \"concerns raised by United Nations Security Council member countries during the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) in Geneva\" on 11 May 2016: \"that foreign countries would not understand why Thailand needs the lèse majesté law because they are not \"civilised\" nations with cultural refinement like ours.\"\n\nA judge in a lèse majesté case, which a man was sentenced to seven years and six months in prison, said he would have given a longer sentence, but was advised on the shorter term by the court's deputy president.\n\nThe lèse majesté law is described as \"draconian.\" Amnesty International considers anyone jailed for insulting Bhumibol to be a political prisoner.\n\nArticle 112 is typically deployed with politically expedient timing, rather than at the time of the supposed offense. Jakrapob Penkair, a former Minister to the Office of the Prime Minister, commented \"It’s not about your action; it’s about the timing. They wait until the moment when you seem most vulnerable.\"\n\nThe United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Promotion and Protection of the Right to Freedom of Opinion and Expression, David Kaye, commenting on the detention of a Thai national who posted a link to a Thai language BBC profile of Thailand's new king, said, \"Public figures, including those exercising the highest political authority, may be subject to criticism, and the fact that some forms of expression are considered to be insulting to a public figure is not sufficient to justify restrictions or penalties.\" Kaye went on to say that such laws \"have no place in a democratic country\" and called for Thailand to repeal them. \n\n\"Not The Nation\", an anonymous website that satirizes a Thai newspaper, \"The Nation\", satirized the media and public response paid to the case of Thai American Joe Gordon in contrast to that paid to the drug-related case of Australian Schapelle Corby and to the pardoning of Greek-Cypriot-Australian Harry Nicolaides. \"NTN\" later satirized plea bargaining in the \"Uncle SMS\" case. In December 2013, \"NTN\" circumvented the chilling effect of LMIT on discussion of succession with a discussion of the abdication of royal dog Thong Daeng.\n\nIn July 2014, British comedian John Oliver described, at the time Crown Prince, Vajiralongkorn as a \"buffoon\" and showed the leaked video of Vajiralongkorn and his topless wife celebrating the birthday of the prince's poodle, Air Chief Marshal Foo Foo, in a satirical piece about monarchy in general on \"Last Week Tonight with John Oliver\". The Thai military government described Oliver as \"undermining the royal institution\", to which Oliver responded by saying \"It seems my Thailand vacation is going to have to be postponed very much indefinitely. If I can bring down your monarchy, you have—at best—a wobbly monarchy.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "483272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483272", "title": "Mennonite Central Committee", "text": "Mennonite Central Committee\n\nMennonite Central Committee (MCC) is a relief, service, and peace agency representing fifteen Mennonite, Brethren in Christ and Amish bodies in North America. The U.S. headquarters are in Akron, Pennsylvania, the Canadian in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nFounded in Chicago, Illinois, MCC held its first meeting on September 27, 1920. Its original goal was to provide food for Mennonites starving in Ukraine. MCC soon realized that it could not help only their Mennonite brothers and sisters and began to help anyone in need. MCC (Canada) was founded in 1963.\n\nThe initial work of MCC focused on:\n\nMennonites of Molotschna sent a commission to North America in the summer of 1920 to alert American Mennonites of the dire conditions of war-torn Ukraine. Their plight succeeded in uniting various branches of Mennonites to form Mennonite Central Committee in an effort to aid these Russian Mennonites. P. C. Hiebert of the Mennonite Brethren Church initially chaired the organization, with secretary Levi Mumaw of the (Old) Mennonite Church and attorney Maxwell Kratz of the General Conference Mennonite Church. Other Mennonite conferences joined later.\n\nThe new organization planned to provide aid to Ukraine via existing Mennonite relief work in Istanbul. The Istanbul group, mainly Goshen College graduates, produced three volunteers, who at great risk entered Ukraine during the ongoing Russian Civil War. They arrived in the Mennonite village of Halbstadt just as General Wrangel of the White Army was retreating. Two of the volunteers withdrew with the Wrangel army, while Clayton Kratz, who remained in Halbstadt (Molotschna) as the Red Army overran the village, was never heard from again.\n\nA year passed before official permission was received from the Soviet government to do relief work among the villages of Ukraine. Kitchens provided 25,000 people a day with rations over a period of three years beginning in 1922, with a peak of 40,000 servings during August of that year. Fifty Fordson tractor and plow combinations were sent to Mennonite villages to replace horses that had been stolen and confiscated during the war. This relief effort cost $1.2 million.\n\nAs Civilian Public Service started to wind down in 1946, MCC began exploring a peacetime service program that would continue the types of projects performed by CPS. The new program, Voluntary Service, had several aims.\nIt would provide young people with a way to voluntarily perform Christian service for up to a year as a means of testifying more widely to the gospel and its way of love and nonresistance. Projects were to help alleviate human need in a culturally sensitive manner. The program would operate as an internship in Christian service, developing the workers' service motivation, witness and religious conviction. It would provide Mennonite young people with an opportunity to express appreciation for the material blessings, religious and other national liberties and to contribute to the well-being of the nation. Finally, it was hoped that some individuals would decide to devote their careers to full-time ministry or missionary service.\n\nThe first Voluntary Service unit started during the summer of 1946 in association with the CPS unit at Gulfport, Mississippi .\n\nMCC was an early proponent of fair trade through its Ten Thousand Villages program.\n\nFunds for MCC's worldwide relief and service projects are raised through independent Mennonite relief sales. Around 45 sales are held throughout the United States and Canada, raising US$5 million annually. Many of these sales feature quilts handmade by Mennonite and Amish volunteers, auctions, artwork, crafted woodwork, homemade foods, antiques, crafts, plants, children's activities, and musical programs. Most of the goods and labor are donated, and 78.2% of the funds raised go directly into the field.\n\nMCC focuses its development efforts in areas such as health, education, peace and justice, and fair trade. It responds to disaster situations, as well as focusing its efforts on the longer-term issues of economic and social policy.\n\nMCC maintains offices in both Washington, D.C., and Ottawa to advocate to the American and Canadian federal governments, respectively. MCC also has an international advocacy office at the United Nations in New York City. As of 2015, Ewuare Osayande served as the group's Anti-Oppression Coordinator.\n\nMCC also takes an active role in advocating for peace both in North America and around the world, seeking \"to be a witness against forces that contribute to poverty, injustice and violence.\" In North America, MCC established the Mennonite Conciliation Service (MCS) in 1979 to encourage Mennonites and others to actively pursue peaceful resolution of conflicts. MCS was a pioneer in the burgeoning field of conflict resolution in the 1980s and director Ronald S. Kraybill led early mediation workshops in Northern Ireland which eventually led to the establishment of the Northern Ireland Mediation Network. John Paul Lederach took over MCS in 1989 when Kraybill moved on to South Africa, and in the years following, MCC moved active peace building into the forefront of its work abroad.\n\nResponding in part to the establishment of active Mennonite-led peace centers that had emerged in the 80s and 90s, such as the Conflict Transformation Program at Eastern Mennonite University, the Lombard Mennonite Peace Center in Lombard, Illinois, a group of peace builders at Fresno Pacific University, the Peace and Justice Network of the Mennonite Church and other activities, MCS was discontinued in 2004. But the Peace Office of MCC continues to advocate peace interests broadly in the US and in MCC programming abroad. Internationally, MCC partners with local organizations to reduce violence in the aftermath of conflict or war.\n\nPerhaps one of MCC's more controversial activities is in advocating military exemption or alternative service for conscientious objectors in times of war. MCC runs a \"conscientious objector registry\" in Canada, taking statements from Canadians in the hope that they will be recognized by the Canadian government should the government restart drafting citizens into the military.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20910757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20910757", "title": "Middleman minority", "text": "Middleman minority\n\nA middleman minority is a minority population whose main occupations link producers and consumers: traders, money-lenders, etc. A middleman minority, while possibly suffering discrimination, does not hold an \"extreme subordinate\" status in society. The \"middleman minority\" concept was developed by sociologists like Blalock and Bonacich starting in the 1960s but is also used by political scientists and economists.\n\nThere are numerous examples of such groups gaining eventual prosperity in their adopted country despite discrimination. Often, they will take on roles between producer and consumer, such as trading and moneylending. Famous examples such as Jews throughout Europe even at times when discrimination against them was high, Chinese throughout Southeast Asia, Muslims and Parsis in India, Igbos in Nigeria, Indians in East Africa, Lebanese in West Africa, and many others.\n\nMiddleman minorities usually provide an economic benefit to communities and nations and often start new industries. However, their economic aptitude, financial success and clannishness, combined with social prejudices by other groups against businesses and moneylending, can cause resentment among the native population of a country. Middleman minorities can be victims of violence, genocide, racialist policy, or other forms of repression. Other ethnic groups often accuse them of plotting conspiracies against their nation or of stealing wealth from the native population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13006297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006297", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Lithuania)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Lithuania)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Lithuania () is a governmental body of the Republic of Lithuania. Its mission is to formulate and implement state cultural policies supporting professional and amateur art, theatre, music, fine arts, cinema, museums, libraries, and written publications, to guard copyright and copyright-related interests, and to protect cultural values.\n\nThe ministry awards the Lithuanian National Prize for achievements in the arts and culture, and the Martynas Mažvydas Award for scholarly research.\n\nThe Ministry of Culture performs the following functions within the framework of Lithuanian legislation: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43659086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43659086", "title": "Ministry of National Defence (São Tomé and Príncipe)", "text": "Ministry of National Defence (São Tomé and Príncipe)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence (Portuguese: \"Ministério da Defesa Nacional\") is a ministry of the Government of São Tomé and Príncipe. It is headed by the Minister of Defence and Internal Order (Portuguese: \"Ministro da Defesa e Ordem Interna\"). The current minister is Lieutenant colonel Óscar Sacramento e Sousa.\n\nMost sites are down"}
{"id": "1212038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1212038", "title": "Operation Gladio", "text": "Operation Gladio\n\nOperation Gladio is the codename for clandestine \"stay-behind\" operations of armed resistance that was planned by the Western Union (WU), and subsequently by the NATO, for a potential Warsaw Pact invasion and conquest in Europe. Although Gladio specifically refers to the Italian branch of the NATO stay-behind organizations, \"Operation Gladio\" is used as an informal name for all of them. Stay-behind operations were prepared in many NATO member countries, and some neutral countries.\n\nThe role of the CIA in Gladio and the extent of its activities during the Cold War era, and any relationship to terrorist attacks perpetrated in Italy during the \"Years of Lead\" (late 1960s to early 1980s) are the subject of debate. Switzerland and Belgium have had parliamentary inquiries into the matter.\n\nThe word \"gladio\" is the Italian form of \"gladius\", a type of Roman shortsword. \n\nFollowing the fall of France in 1940, Winston Churchill created the Special Operations Executive (SOE) to both assist resistance movements and itself carry out sabotage and subversive operations in occupied Europe. It was revealed half a century later that SOE was complemented by a stay-behind organisation in Britain, created in extreme secrecy, to prepare for a possible invasion by Nazi Germany.\n\nA network of resistance fighters was formed across Britain and arms caches were established. The network was recruited, in part, from the 5th (Ski) Battalion of the Scots Guards (which had originally been formed, but was not deployed, to fight alongside Finnish forces fighting the Soviet invasion of Finland). The network, which became known as the Auxiliary Units, was headed by Major Colin Gubbins – an expert in guerrilla warfare (who would later lead SOE). The units were trained, in part, by \"Mad Mike\" Calvert, a Royal Engineers officer who specialised in demolition by explosives and covert raiding operations. To the extent that they were publicly visible, the Auxiliary Units were disguised as Home Guard units, under GHQ Home Forces. The network was allegedly disbanded in 1944; some of its members subsequently joined the Special Air Service and saw action in . \n\nWhile David Lampe published a book on the Auxiliary Units in 1968, their existence did not become widely known by the public until reporters such as David Pallister of \"The Guardian\" revived interest in them during the 1990s.\n\nAfter World War II, the UK and the US decided to create \"stay-behind\" paramilitary organizations, with the official aim of countering a possible Soviet invasion through sabotage and guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines. Arms caches were hidden, escape routes prepared, and loyal members recruited, whether in Italy or in other European countries. Its clandestine \"cells\" were to stay behind in enemy-controlled territory and to act as resistance movements, conducting sabotage, guerrilla warfare and assassinations.\n\nThe stay-behind armies were created with the experience and involvement of former SOE officers. Following Giulio Andreotti's October 1990 revelations, General Sir John Hackett, former commander-in-chief of the British Army on the Rhine, declared on November 16, 1990, that a contingency plan involving \"stay behind and resistance in depth\" was drawn up after the war. The same week, Sir Anthony Farrar-Hockley, former commander-in-chief of NATO's Forces in Northern Europe from 1979 to 1982, declared to \"The Guardian\" that a secret arms network was established in Britain after the war. Hackett had written in 1978 a novel, \"The Third World War: August 1985\", which was a fictionalized scenario of a Soviet Army invasion of West Germany in 1985. The novel was followed in 1982 by \"\", which elaborated on the original. Farrar-Hockley had aroused controversy in 1983 when he became involved in trying to organise a campaign for a new Home Guard against a potential Soviet invasion.\n\nOperating in all of NATO and even in some neutral countries such as Spain before its 1982 admission to NATO, Gladio was first coordinated by the Clandestine Committee of the Western Union (CCWU), founded in 1948. After the creation of NATO in 1949, the CCWU was integrated into the \"Clandestine Planning Committee\" (CPC), founded in 1951 and overseen by the SHAPE (Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe), transferred to Belgium after France's official withdrawal from the NATO military organization – but not from NATO – which was not followed by the dissolution of the French stay-behind paramilitary movements.\n\nHistorian Daniele Ganser claims that:\nNext to the CPC, a second secret army command center, labeled Allied Clandestine Committee (ACC), was set up in 1957 on the orders of NATO's Supreme Allied Commander in Europe (SACEUR). This military structure provided for significant US leverage over the secret stay-behind networks in Western Europe as the SACEUR, throughout NATO's history, has traditionally been a US General who reports to the Pentagon in Washington and is based in NATO's Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) in Mons, Belgium. The ACC's duties included elaborating on the directives of the network, developing its clandestine capability, and organizing bases in Britain and the United States. In wartime, it was to plan stay-behind operations in conjunction with SHAPE. According to former CIA director William Colby, it was 'a major program'.\n\nCoordinated by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), {the secret armies} were run by the European military secret services in close cooperation with the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the British foreign secret service Secret Intelligence Service (SIS, also MI6). Trained together with US Green Berets and British Special Air Service (SAS), these clandestine NATO soldiers, with access to underground arms caches, prepared to fight against a potential Soviet invasion and occupation of Western Europe, as well as the coming to power of communist parties. The clandestine international network covered the European NATO membership, including Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxemburg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, and Turkey, as well as the neutral European countries of Austria, Finland, Sweden and Switzerland.\nThe Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) responded to the series of accusations made by Ganser in his book regarding the CIA's involvement in Operation Gladio, by claiming that neither Ganser nor anyone else could have solid evidence supporting their accusations. At one point in his book Ganser talks about the CIA's covert action policies as being \"terrorist in nature\" and then accuses the CIA of using their \"networks for political terrorism\". The CIA responded by noting that Daniele Ganser's sourcing is \"largely secondary\" and that Ganser himself has complained about \"not being able to find any official sources to support his charges of the CIA's or any Western European government's involvement with Gladio\".\n\nThe existence of these clandestine NATO units remained a closely guarded secret throughout the Cold War until 1990, when the first branch of the international network was discovered in Italy. It was code-named \"Gladio\", the Italian word for a short double-edged sword [\"gladius\"]. While the press said that the NATO stay-behind units were 'the best-kept, and most damaging, political-military secret since World War II', the Italian government, amidst sharp public criticism, promised to close down the secret army. Italy insisted identical clandestine units had also existed in all other countries of Western Europe. This allegation proved correct and subsequent research found that in Belgium, the secret NATO unit was code-named SDRA8, in Denmark Absalon, in Germany TD BDJ, in Greece LOK, in Luxemburg Stay-Behind, in the Netherlands I&O, in Norway ROC, in Portugal Aginter Press, in Spain Red Quantum, in Switzerland P26, in Turkey Özel Harp Dairesi, In Sweden AGAG (Aktions Gruppen Arla Gryning), in France 'Plan Bleu', and in Austria OWSGV; however, the code name of the stay-behind unit in Finland remains unknown.\n\nUpon learning of the discovery, the parliament of the European Union (EU) drafted a resolution sharply criticizing the fact. Yet only Italy, Belgium and Switzerland carried out parliamentary investigations, while the administration of President George H. W. Bush refused to comment.\n\nIf Gladio was effectively \"the best-kept, and most damaging, political-military secret since World War II\", it must be underlined, however, that on several occasions, arms caches were discovered and stay-behind paramilitary organizations officially dissolved.\n\nNATO's \"stay-behind\" organizations were never called upon to resist a Soviet invasion. According to a November 13, 1990, Reuters cable, \"André Moyen – a former member of the Belgian military security service and of the [stay-behind] network – said Gladio was not just anti-Communist but was for fighting subversion in general. He added that his predecessor had given Gladio 142 million francs ($4.6 millions) to buy new radio equipment.\"\n\nThe Italian NATO stay-behind organization, dubbed \"Gladio\", was set up under Minister of Defense (from 1953 to 1958) Paolo Taviani's (DC) supervision. Gladio's existence came to public knowledge when Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti revealed it to the Chamber of Deputies on October 24, 1990, although far-right terrorist Vincenzo Vinciguerra had already revealed its existence during his 1984 trial. According to media analyst Edward S. Herman, \"both the President of Italy, Francesco Cossiga, and Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti, had been involved in the Gladio organization and coverup...\"\n\nChristian Democrat Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti publicly recognized the existence of Gladio on 24 October 1990. Andreotti spoke of a \"structure of information, response and safeguard\", with arms caches and reserve officers. He gave to the \"Commissione Stragi\", the parliamentary commission led by senator Giovanni Pellegrino in charge of investigations on bombings committed during the Years Of Lead in Italy, a list of 622 civilians who according to him were part of Gladio. Andreotti also stated that 127 weapons caches had been dismantled, and said that Gladio had not been involved in any of the bombings committed from the 1960s to the 1980s.\n\nAndreotti declared that the Italian military services (predecessors of the SISMI) had joined in 1964 the Allied Clandestine Committee created in 1957 by the US, France, Belgium and Greece, and which was in charge of directing Gladio's operations. However, Gladio was actually set up under Minister of Defence (from 1953 to 1958) Paolo Taviani's supervision. Beside, the list of Gladio members given by Andreotti was incomplete. It didn't include, for example, Antonio Arconte, who described an organization very different from the one brushed by Giulio Andreotti: an organization closely tied to the SID secret service and the Atlanticist strategy. According to Andreotti, the stay-behind organisations set up in all of Europe did not come \"under broad NATO supervision until 1959.\"\n\nGeneral Gerardo Serravalle, who commanded the Italian Gladio from 1971 to 1974, related that \"in the 1970s the members of the CPC [Coordination and Planning Committee] were the officers responsible for the secret structures of Great Britain, France, Germany, Belgium, Luxemburg, the Netherlands and Italy. These representatives of the secret structures met every year in one of the capitals... At the stay-behind meetings representatives of the CIA were always present. They had no voting rights and were from the CIA headquarters of the capital in which the meeting took place... members of the US Forces Europe Command were present, also without voting rights. \" Next to the CPC a second secret command post was created in 1957, the Allied Clandestine Committee (ACC). According to the Belgian Parliamentary Committee on Gladio, the ACC was \"responsible for coordinating the 'Stay-behind' networks in Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Holland, Norway, United Kingdom and the United States\". During peacetime, the activities of the ACC \"included elaborating the directives for the network, developing its clandestine capability and organising bases in Britain and the United States. In wartime, it was to plan stay-behind operations in conjunction with SHAPE; organisers were to activate clandestine bases and organise operations from there\". General Serravale declared to the \"Commissione Stragi\" headed by senator Giovanni Pellegrino that the Italian Gladio members trained at a military base in Britain.\n\nAfter the 1967 withdrawal of France from NATO's military structure, the SHAPE headquarters were displaced to Mons in Belgium. In 1990, following France's denial of any \"stay-behind\" French army, Giulio Andreotti publicly said the last Allied Clandestine Committee (ACC) meeting, at which the French branch of Gladio was present, had been on October 23 and 24, 1990, under the presidency of Belgian General Van Calster, director of the Belgian military secret service SGR. In November, Guy Coëme, the Minister of the Defense, acknowledged the existence of a Belgian \"stay-behind\" army, raising concerns about a similar implication in terrorist acts as in Italy. The same year, the European Parliament sharply condemned NATO and the United States in a resolution for having manipulated European politics with the stay-behind armies.\n\nNew legislation governing intelligence agencies' missions and methods was passed in 1998, following two government inquiries and the creation of a permanent parliamentary committee in 1991, which was to bring them under the authority of Belgium's federal agencies. The Commission was created following events in the 1980s, which included the Brabant massacres and the activities of far right group Westland New Post.\n\nThe Danish stay-behind army was code-named \"Absalon\", after a Danish archbishop, and led by E.J. Harder. It was hidden in the military secret service \"Forsvarets Efterretningstjeneste\" (FE). In 1978, William Colby, former director of the CIA, released his memoirs in which he described the setting-up of stay-behind armies in Scandinavia:\n\nThe situation in each Scandinavian country was different. Norway and Denmark were NATO allies, Sweden held to the neutrality that had taken her through two world wars, and Finland were required to defer in its foreign policy to the Soviet power directly on its borders. Thus, in one set of these countries the governments themselves would build their own stay-behind nets, counting on activating them from exile to carry on the struggle. These nets had to be co-ordinated with NATO's plans, their radios had to be hooked to a future exile location, and the specialised equipment had to be secured from CIA and secretly cached in snowy hideouts for later use. In other set of countries, CIA would have to do the job alone or with, at best, \"unofficial\" local help, since the politics of those governments barred them from collaborating with NATO, and any exposure would arouse immediate protest from the local Communist press, Soviet diplomats and loyal Scandinavians who hoped that neutrality or nonalignment would allow them to slip through a World War III unharmed.\n\nIn 1947, Interior Minister Édouard Depreux revealed the existence of a secret stay-behind army in France codenamed \"Plan Bleu\". The next year, the \"Western Union Clandestine Committee\" (WUCC) was created to coordinate secret unorthodox warfare. In 1949, the WUCC was integrated into NATO, whose headquarters were established in France, under the name \"Clandestine Planning Committee\" (CPC). In 1958, NATO founded the Allied Clandestine Committee (ACC) to coordinate secret warfare.\n\nThe network was supported with elements from SDECE, and had military support from the 11th Choc regiment. The former director of DGSE, admiral Pierre Lacoste, alleged in a 1992 interview with \"The Nation\", that certain elements from the network were involved in terrorist activities against de Gaulle and his Algerian policy. A section of the 11th Choc regiment split over the 1962 Evian peace accords, and became part of the \"Organisation armée secrète\" (OAS), but it is unclear if this also involved members of the French stay-behind network.\n\n\"La Rose des Vents\" and \"Arc-en-ciel\" (\"Rainbow\") network were part of Gladio. François de Grossouvre was Gladio's leader for the region around Lyon in France until his alleged suicide on April 7, 1994. Grossouvre would have asked Constantin Melnik, leader of the French secret services during the Algerian War of Independence (1954–62), to return to activity. He was living in comfortable exile in the US, where he maintained links with the Rand Corporation. Constantin Melnik is alleged to have been involved in the creation in 1952 of the \"Ordre Souverain du Temple Solaire\", an ancestor of the Order of the Solar Temple, created by former A.M.O.R.C. members, in which the SDECE (French former military intelligence agency) was interested.\n\nUS intelligence also assisted in the set up of a German stay-behind network. CIA documents released in June 2006 under the 1998 Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act, show that the CIA organized \"stay-behind\" networks of German agents between 1949 and 1953. According to the \"Washington Post\", \"One network included at least two former Nazi SS members—Staff Sgt. Heinrich Hoffman and Lt. Col. Hans Rues—and one was run by Lt. Col. Walter Kopp, a former German army officer referred to by the CIA as an \"unreconstructed Nazi\". \"The network was disbanded in 1953 amid political concerns that some members' neo-Nazi sympathies would be exposed in the West German press.\"\n\nDocuments shown to the Italian parliamentary terrorism committee revealed that in the 1970s British and French officials involved in the network visited a training base in Germany built with US money.\n\nIn 1976, the secret service BND secretary Heidrun Hofer was arrested after having revealed the secrets of the German stay-behind army to her husband, who was a spy of the KGB.\n\nIn 2004 the German author Norbert Juretzko published a book about his work at the BND. He went into details about recruiting partisans for the German stay-behind network. He was sacked from BND following a secret trial against him, because the BND could not find out the real name of his Russian source \"Rübezahl\" whom he had recruited. A man with the name he put on file was arrested by the KGB following treason in the BND, but was obviously innocent, his name having been chosen at random from the public phone book by Juretzko. According to Juretzko, the BND built up its branch of Gladio, but discovered after the fall of the German Democratic Republic that it was fully known to the Stasi early on. When the network was dismantled, further odd details emerged. One fellow \"spymaster\" had kept the radio equipment in his cellar at home with his wife doing the engineering test call every four months, on the grounds that the equipment was too \"valuable\" to remain in civilian hands. Juretzko found out because this spymaster had dismantled his section of the network so quickly, there had been no time for measures such as recovering all caches of supplies.\n\nCivilians recruited as stay-behind partisans were equipped with a clandestine shortwave radio with a fixed frequency. It had a keyboard with digital encryption, making use of traditional Morse code obsolete. They had a cache of further equipment for signalling helicopters or submarines to drop special agents who were to stay in the partisan's homes while mounting sabotage operations against the communists.\n\nWhen Greece joined NATO in 1952, the country's special forces, LOK (\"Lochoi Oreinōn Katadromōn\", i.e., \"mountain raiding companies\"), were integrated into the European stay-behind network. The CIA and LOK reconfirmed on March 25, 1955 their mutual co-operation in a secret document signed by US General Truscott for the CIA, and Konstantinos Dovas, chief of staff of the Greek military. In addition to preparing for a Soviet invasion, the CIA instructed LOK to prevent a leftist coup. Former CIA agent Philip Agee, who was sharply criticized in the US for having revealed sensitive information, insisted that \"paramilitary groups, directed by CIA officers, operated in the sixties throughout Europe [and he stressed that] perhaps no activity of the CIA could be as clearly linked to the possibility of internal subversion.\"\n\nAccording to historian Daniele Ganser, LOK was involved in the military coup d'état on 21 April 1967, which took place one month before the scheduled national elections for which opinion polls predicted an overwhelming victory of the centrist Center Union of George and Andreas Papandreou. Under the command of paratrooper Lieutenant Colonel Costas Aslanides, LOK took control of the Greek Defence Ministry while Brigadier General Stylianos Pattakos gained control of communication centers, parliament, the royal palace, and according to detailed lists, arrested over 10,000 people. According to Ganser, Phillips Talbot, the US ambassador in Athens, disapproved of the military coup which established the \"Regime of the Colonels\" (1967–1974), complaining that it represented \"a rape of democracy\"—to which Jack Maury, the CIA chief of station in Athens, answered, \"How can you rape a whore?\"\n\nArrested and then exiled in Canada and Sweden, Andreas Papandreou later returned to Greece, where he won the 1981 election, forming the first socialist government of Greece's post-war history. According to his own testimony, Ganser alleges, he discovered the existence of the secret NATO army, then codenamed \"Red Sheepskin\", as acting prime minister in 1984 and had given orders to dissolve it.\n\nFollowing Giulio Andreotti's revelations in 1990, the Greek defence minister confirmed that a branch of the network, known as Operation Sheepskin, operated in his country until 1988.\n\nIn December 2005, journalist Kleanthis Grivas published an article in \"To Proto Thema\", a Greek Sunday newspaper, in which he accused \"Sheepskin\" for the assassination of CIA station chief Richard Welch in Athens in 1975, as well as the assassination of British military attaché Stephen Saunders in 2000. This was denied by the US State Department, who responded that \"the Greek terrorist organization '17 November\" was responsible for both assassinations\", and that Grivas's central piece of evidence had been the Westmoreland Field Manual which the state department, as well as an independent congressional inquiry have alleged to be a Soviet forgery. The State Department also highlighted the fact that, in the case of Richard Welch, \"Grivas bizarrely accuses the CIA of playing a role in the assassination of one of its own senior officials\" while \"Sheepskin\" couldn't have assassinated Stephen Saunders for the simple reason that, according to the US government, \"the Greek government stated it dismantled the 'stay behind' network in 1988.\"\n\nSpeculation that the Netherlands was involved in \"Gladio\" arose from the accidental discovery of large arms caches in 1980 and 1983. In the latter incident, people walking in a forest near the village of Velp, North Brabant chanced upon a large hidden cache of arms, containing dozens of hand grenades, semiautomatic rifles, automatic pistols, munitions and explosives. That discovery forced the Dutch government to confirm that the arms were related to NATO planning for unorthodox warfare.\n\nIn 1990, then-Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers told the Dutch Parliament that his office was running a secret organisation that had been set up inside the Dutch defence ministry in the 1950s, but denied it was supervised directly by NATO or other foreign bodies. He went to inform that successive prime ministers and defence chiefs had always preferred not to inform other Cabinet members or Parliament about the secret organization. It was modeled on the nation's World War II experiences of having to evacuate the royal family and transfer government to a government-in-exile, originally aiming to provide an underground intelligence network to a government-in-exile in the event of a foreign invasion, although it included elements of guerilla warfare. Former Dutch Defence Minister Henk Vredeling confirmed the group had set up arms caches around the Netherlands for sabotage purposes. Members of the cell are believed to have taken part in a training exercise in Sicily. The operating bureaus of the organisation would also move to safety in England or the USA at the first sign of trouble.\n\nAlready in 1990, it was known that the weapons cache near Velp, while accidentally 'discovered' in 1983, had been plundered partially before. It still contained dozens of hand grenades, semiautomatic rifles, automatic pistols, munitions and explosives at the time of discovery, but five hand grenades had gone missing. A Dutch investigative television program revealed on 9 September 2007, that another arms cache that had belonged to Gladio had been ransacked in the 1980s. It was located in a park near Scheveningen. Some of the stolen weapons, including hand grenades and machine guns, later turned up when police officials arrested criminals John Mieremet and Sam Klepper in 1991. The Dutch military intelligence agency MIVD feared at the time that disclosure of the Gladio history of these weapons would have been politically sensitive.\n\nIn 1957, the director of the secret service NIS, Vilhelm Evang, protested strongly against the pro-active intelligence activities at AFNORTH, as described by the chairman of CPC: \"[NIS] was extremely worried about activities carried out by officers at Kolsås. This concerned SB, Psywar and Counter Intelligence.\" These activities supposedly included the blacklisting of Norwegians. SHAPE denied these allegations. Eventually, the matter was resolved in 1958, after Norway was assured about how stay-behind networks were to be operated.\n\nIn 1978, the police discovered an arms cache and radio equipment at a mountain cabin and arrested Hans Otto Meyer, a businessman accused of being involved in selling illegal alcohol. Meyer claimed that the weapons were supplied by Norwegian intelligence. Rolf Hansen, defence minister at that time, stated the network was not in any way answerable to NATO and had no CIA connection.\n\nIn 1966, the CIA set up Aginter Press which, under the direction of Captain Yves Guérin-Sérac (who had taken part in the founding of the OAS), ran a secret stay-behind army and trained its members in covert action techniques amounting to terrorism, including bombings, silent assassinations, subversion techniques, clandestine communication and infiltration and colonial warfare.\n\nAs one of the nations that prompted the Truman Doctrine, Turkey is one of the first countries to participate in Operation Gladio and, some say, the only country where it has not been purged.\n\nThe counter-guerrillas' existence in Turkey was revealed in 1973 by then-prime minister Bülent Ecevit.\n\nIn Austria, the first secret stay-behind army was exposed in 1947. It had been set up by the far-right Soucek and Rössner, who both insisted during their trial that \"they were carrying out the secret operation with the full knowledge and support of the US and British occupying powers.\" Sentenced to death, they were pardoned under mysterious circumstances by President Körner (1951–1957).\n\nIn 1965, police discovered a stay-behind arms cache in an old mine close to Windisch-Bleiberg and forced the British authorities to hand over a list with the location of 33 other caches in Austria.\n\nIn 1990, when secret \"stay-behind\" armies were uncovered all around Europe, the Austrian government said that no secret army had existed in the country. However, six years later, the \"Boston Globe\" revealed the existence of secret CIA arms caches in Austria. Austrian President Thomas Klestil and Chancellor Franz Vranitzky insisted that they had known nothing of the existence of the secret army and demanded that the US launch a full-scale investigation into the violation of Austria's neutrality, which was denied by President Bill Clinton. State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns—appointed in August 2001 by President George Bush as the US Permanent Representative to the Atlantic treaty organization, where, as ambassador to NATO, he headed the combined State-Defense Department United States Mission to NATO and coordinated the NATO response to the September 11, 2001 attacks—insisted: \"The aim was noble, the aim was correct, to try to help Austria if it was under occupation. What went wrong is that successive Washington administrations simply decided not to talk to the Austrian government about it.\"\n\nIn 1944, the Swedes worked with Finnish Intelligence to set up a stay-behind network of agents within Finland to keep track of post-war activities in that country. While this network was allegedly never put in place, Finnish codes, SIGINT equipment and documents were brought to Sweden and apparently exploited until the 1980s.\n\nIn 1945, Interior Minister Yrjö Leino exposed a secret stay-behind army which was closed down (so called \"Weapons Cache Case\"). This operation was organized by Finnish general staff officers (without foreign help) in 1944 to hide weapons in order to sustain a large-scale guerrilla warfare in the event the Soviet Union tried to occupy Finland in the aftermath of the Continuation War. See also Operation Stella Polaris.\n\nIn 1991, the Swedish media claimed that a secret stay-behind army had existed in neutral Finland with an exile base in Stockholm. Finnish Defence Minister Elisabeth Rehn called the revelations \"a fairy tale\", adding cautiously \"or at least an incredible story, of which I know nothing.\" However, in his memoirs, former CIA director William Colby described the setting-up of stay-behind armies in Scandinavian countries, including Finland, with or without the assistance of local governments, to prepare for a Soviet invasion.\n\nSeveral events prior to Spain's 1982 membership in NATO have also been tied to Gladio. In May 1976, half a year after Franco's death, two Carlist militants were shot down by far-right terrorists, among whom were Gladio operative Stefano Delle Chiaie and members of the Apostolic Anticommunist Alliance (\"Triple A\"), demonstrating connections between Gladio and the South American \"Dirty War\" of the Operation Condor. This incident became known as the Montejurra incident. According to a report by the Italian CESIS (Executive Committee for Intelligence and Security Services), Carlo Cicuttini (who took part in the 1972 Peteano bombing in Italy alongside Vincenzo Vinciguerra), participated in the 1977 Massacre of Atocha in Madrid, killing five people (including several lawyers), members of the Workers' Commissions trade-unions closely linked with the Spanish Communist Party. Cicuttini was a naturalized Spaniard and exiled in Spain since 1972 (date of the Peteano bombing)\n\nFollowing Andreotti's 1990 revelations, Adolfo Suárez, Spain's first democratically elected prime minister after Franco's death, denied ever having heard of Gladio. President of the Spanish government in 1981–82, during the transition to democracy, Calvo Sotelo stated that Spain had not been informed of Gladio when it entered NATO. Asked about Gladio's relations to Francoist Spain, he said that such a network was not necessary under Franco, since \"the regime itself was Gladio.\"\n\nAccording to General Fausto Fortunato, head of Italian SISMI from 1971 to 1974, France and the US had backed Spain's entrance to Gladio, but Italy would have opposed it. Following Andreotti's revelations, however, Narcís Serra, Spanish Minister of Defence, opened up an investigation concerning Spain's links to Gladio. The \"Canarias 7\" newspaper revealed, quoting former Gladio agent Alberto Volo, who had a role in the revelations of the existence of the network in 1990, that a Gladio meeting had been organized in August 1991 on Gran Canaria island. Alberto Vollo also declared that as a Gladio operative, he had received trainings in Maspalomas, on Gran Canaria in the 1960s and the 1970s. \"El País\" also revealed that the Gladio organization was suspected of having used former NASA installations in Maspalomas, on Gran Canaria, in the 1970s.\n\nAndré Moyen, former Belgian secret agent, also declared that Gladio had operated in Spain. He said that Gladio had bases in Madrid, Barcelona, San Sebastián, and the Canary islands.\n\nIn 1951, CIA agent William Colby, based at the CIA station in Stockholm, supported the training of stay-behind armies in neutral Sweden and Finland and in the NATO members Norway and Denmark. In 1953, the police arrested right winger Otto Hallberg and discovered the preparations for the Swedish stay-behind army. Hallberg was set free and charges against him were dropped.\n\nIn Switzerland, a secret force called P-26 was discovered, by coincidence, a few months before Giulio Andreotti's October 1990 revelations. After the \"secret files scandal\" (\"Fichenaffäre\"), Swiss members of parliament started investigating the Defense Department in the summer of 1990. According to Felix Würsten of the ETH Zurich, \"P-26 was not directly involved in the network of NATO's secret armies but it had close contact to MI6.\" Daniele Ganser (ETH Zurich) wrote in the \"Intelligence and National Security\" review that \"following the discovery of the stay-behind armies across Western Europe in late 1990, Swiss and international security researchers found themselves confronted with two clear-cut questions: Did Switzerland also operate a secret stay-behind army? And if yes, was it part of NATO's stay-behind network? The answer to the first question is clearly yes... The answer to the second question remains disputed...\"\n\nIn 1990, Colonel Herbert Alboth, a former commander of P-26, declared in a confidential letter to the Defence Department that he was willing to reveal \"the whole truth\". He was later found in his house, stabbed with his own bayonet. The detailed parliamentary report on the Swiss secret army was presented to the public on 17 November 1990. According to \"The Guardian\", \"P-26 was backed by P-27, a private foreign intelligence agency funded partly by the government, and by a special unit of Swiss army intelligence which had built up files on nearly 8,000 \"suspect persons\" including \"leftists\", \"bill stickers\", \"Jehovah's witnesses\", people with \"abnormal tendencies\" and anti-nuclear demonstrators.\nOn 14 November, the Swiss government hurriedly dissolved P26 – the head of which, it emerged, had been paid £100,000 a year.\"\n\nIn 1991, a report by Swiss magistrate Pierre Cornu was released by the Swiss defence ministry. It found that P-26 was without \"political or legal legitimacy\", and described the group's collaboration with British secret services as \"intense\". \"Unknown to the Swiss government, British officials signed agreements with P-26 to provide training in combat, communications, and sabotage. The latest agreement was signed in 1987... P-26 cadres participated regularly in training exercises in Britain... British advisers – possibly from the SAS – visited secret training establishments in Switzerland.\" P-26 was led by Efrem Cattelan, known to British intelligence.\n\nIn a 2005 conference presenting Daniele Ganser's research on Gladio, Hans Senn, General Chief of Staff of the Swiss Armed Forces between 1977 and 1980, explained how he was informed of the existence of a secret organisation in the middle of his term of office. According to him, it already became clear in 1980 in the wake of the Schilling/Bachmann affair that there was also a secret group in Switzerland. But former MP, Helmut Hubacher, President of the Social Democratic Party from 1975 to 1990, declared that although it had been known that \"special services\" existed within the army, as a politician he never at any time could have known that P-26 was behind this. Hubacher pointed out that the President of the parliamentary investigation into P26 (PUK-EMD), the right-wing politician from Appenzell and member of the Council of States for that Canton, Carlo Schmid, had suffered \"like a dog\" during the commission's investigations. Carlo Schmid declared to the press: \"I was shocked that something like that is at all possible,\" and said to the press he was glad to leave the \"conspirational atmosphere\" which had weighted upon him like a \"black shadow\" during the investigations. Hubacher found it especially disturbing that, apart from its official mandate of organizing resistance in case of a Soviet invasion, P-26 had also a mandate to become active should the left succeed in achieving a parliamentary majority.\n\nSwiss historian Daniele Ganser in his 2005 book, \"NATO's Secret Armies: Operation Gladio and Terrorism in Western Europe\", accused Gladio of trying to influence policies through the means of \"false flag\" operations and a \"strategy of tension\".\nGanser alleges that on various occasions, stay-behind movements became linked to right-wing terrorism, crime and attempted coups d'état. In \"NATO's Secret Armies\" Ganser states that Gladio units closely cooperated with NATO and the CIA and that Gladio in Italy was responsible for terrorist attacks against its own civilian population.\n\nPeer Henrik Hansen, a scholar at Roskilde University, wrote two scathing criticisms of the book for the \"International Journal of Intelligence and Counterintelligence\" and the \"Journal of Intelligence History\", describing Ganser's work as \"a journalistic book with a big spoonful of conspiracy theories\" that \"fails to present proof of and an in-depth explanation of the claimed conspiracy between USA, CIA, NATO and the European countries.\" Hansen also criticized Ganser for basing his \"claim of the big conspiracy\" off \"US Army Field Manual 30-31B\", a Cold War era forged document. Hayden Peake's book review \"Intelligence in Recent Public Literature\" maintains that, \"Ganser fails to document his thesis that the CIA, MI6, and NATO and its friends turned GLADIO into a terrorist organization.\" Philip HJ Davies of the Brunel University Centre for Intelligence and Security Studies likewise concludes that the book is \"marred by imagined conspiracies, exaggerated notions of the scale and impact of covert activities, misunderstandings of the management and coordination of operations within and between national governments, and... an almost complete failure to place the actions and decisions in question in the appropriate historical context.\" According to Davies, \"the underlying problem is that Ganser has not really undertaken the most basic necessary research to be able to discuss covert action and special operations effectively.\" Olav Riste of the Norwegian Institute for Defence Studies, writing for the journal \"Intelligence and National Security\", mentions several instances where his own research on the stay-behind network in Norway was twisted by Ganser and concludes that \"a detailed refutation of the many unfounded allegations that Ganser accepts as historical findings would fill an entire book.\" In a later joint article with Leopoldo Nuti of the University of Rome, the two concluded that the book's \"ambitious conclusions do not seem to be entirely corroborated by a sound evaluation of the sources available.\"\n\nLawrence Kaplan wrote a mixed review commending Ganser for making \"heroic efforts to tease out the many strands that connect this interlocking right-wing conspiracy\", but also arguing that \"connecting the dots between terrorist organizations in NATO countries and a master plan centred in NATO's military headquarters requires a stretch of facts that Ganser cannot manage.\" Kaplan believes that some of Ganser's conspiracy theories \"may be correct\", but that \"they do damage to the book's credibility.\" In a mostly positive review for the journal \"Cold War History\", Beatrice Heuser praises Ganser's \"fascinating study\" while also noting that \"it would definitely have improved the work if Ganser had used a less polemical tone, and had occasionally conceded that the Soviet Empire was by no means nicer.\" Security analyst John Prados writes \"Ganser, the principal analyst of Gladio, presents evidence across many nations that Gladio networks amounted to anti-democratic elements in their own societies.\"\n\nThe US State Department stated in 2006 that Ganser had been taken in by long-discredited Cold-War era disinformation and \"fooled by the forgery\". In an article about the Gladio/stay-behind networks and \"US Army Field Manual 30-31B\" they stated, \"Ganser treats the forgery as if it was a genuine document in his 2005 book on \"stay behind\" networks, \"Secret Armies: Operation Gladio and Terrorism in Western Europe\" and includes it as a key document on his website on the book\".\n\nThe US State Department published a communiqué in January 2006 which, while confirming the existence of NATO stay-behind efforts, in general, and the presence of the \"Gladio\" stay-behind unit in Italy, in particular, with the purpose of aiding resistance in the event of Soviet aggression directed westward, from the Warsaw Pact, dismissed claims of any United States ordered, supported, or authorized terrorism by stay-behind units.\n\nThe State Department stated that the accusations of US-sponsored \"false flag\" operations are rehashed former Soviet disinformation based on documents that the Soviets forged; specifically the Westmoreland Field Manual, whose forged nature was confirmed by former KGB operatives, following the end of the Cold War. The alleged Soviet-authored forgery, disseminated in the 1970s, explicitly formulated the need for a \"strategy of tension\" involving violent attacks blamed on radical left-wing groups in order to convince allied governments of the need for counter-action. It also rejected a Communist Greek journalist's allegations made in December 2005.\n\n\nA precise analogue of Operation Gladio was described in the 1949 fiction novel \"An Affair of State\" by Pat Frank. In Frank's version, U.S. Department of State officers recruit a stay-behind network in Hungary to fight an insurgency against the Soviet Union after the Soviet Union launches an attack on and captures Western Europe.\n\nIn the \"Archer\" episode \"Lo Scandalo\", the character Malory Archer mentions having been involved in Operation Gladio when younger. It is described by Lana Kane as \"a crypto-fascist shitshow, starring Allen Dulles and a bunch of former Nazis.\"\n\nOther references in fiction include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37724663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37724663", "title": "Orphan bridge", "text": "Orphan bridge\n\nAn orphan bridge is a roadway bridge that crosses over abandoned railroad rights-of-way and which is no longer owned or maintained by any railroad. Examples include the bridges that crossed over predecessor railroads that were conveyed into Conrail in 1976. At the time, Conrail argued in U.S. court that these overhead bridges were not part of the rail rights-of-way that were conveyed to it at the time of the merger. As the railroads that initially built the bridges and maintained them no longer existed, it was argued, successfully, that, in essence, no legal entity owned them and that, as a result, they were \"orphan\" bridges.\n\nAn example of this is the abandoned Conrail bridge which parallels Delaware Avenue and crosses U.S. Route 9W in Kingston, NY.\n"}
{"id": "52268963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52268963", "title": "Oscar Clark Carr Jr.", "text": "Oscar Clark Carr Jr.\n\nOscar Clark Carr Jr. (? – November 5, 1977) was a civil rights activist and leading member of the American Episcopal Church.\n\nOscar Carr was born in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy and served as a naval officer for three years before returning home to his family cotton farm. Carr credited the \"racial militancy\" of Governor Ross Barnett of Mississippi and Governor George Wallace of Alabama for spurring his interest in civil rights. Working with state NAACP leader Aaron Henry, he started an anti-poverty community action group in Coahoma county. Together they also enrolled 6,000 children in the Head Start program.\n\nIn 1968, he was co-director — with rights leader Charles Evers — of the Mississippi presidential campaign of Senator Robert Kennedy. Later the same year he was a key member of the Loyal Democrats of Mississippi delegation which successfully challenged the regular delegation from the state for their seats at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago.\n\nIn 1971, Carr became the Episcopal Church's first executive for stewardship and development.\n\nHe died of cancer on November 5, 1977 at age the age of 54. Over 500 people attended his funeral at the Church of the Heavenly Rest in New York City on 8 November, which was presided over by Bishop Paul Moore.\n\n"}
{"id": "772990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=772990", "title": "Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme", "text": "Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) is a program of the Australian Government that provides subsidised prescription drugs to residents of Australia, as well as certain foreign visitors covered by a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement. The PBS seeks to ensure that Australian residents have affordable and reliable access to a wide range of necessary medicines. The PBS has faced increased scrutiny as its cost has increased. The scheme assumes responsibility for the cost of drugs to patients in the community setting rather than while in hospital which is the responsibility of each state and territory. Together with Medicare the PBS is a key component of health care in Australia.\n\nThe PBS was established by the Labor Chifley Government, by the \"Pharmaceutical Benefits Act 1947\" which commenced on 1 July 1948, as part of a wider plan to create a British-style National Health Service. The scheme was an extension of the similar Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme established in 1919 for Australian servicemen and women who had served in the Boer War and World War I. \n\nThough the High Court of Australia ruled that most of Chifley's health care plans were unconstitutional, the PBS was ruled to be constitutional. Initially, PBS covered approximately 140 lifesaving and disease-preventing drugs. Medicines on the PBS list were free to the consumer until 1960, when a 50 cent co-payment was introduced by the Menzies Government. \n\nBy 2003 the number of drugs included under the scheme had expanded to 601 general products which were marketed as 2,602 different brands. The scheme was appealing to policy makers because it required no major capital works program and could be implemented immediately without lengthy consultation with the medical profession.\n\nPBS is governed by the \"National Health Act 1953\" and \"National Health (Pharmaceutical Benefits) Regulations 1960 (Cth)\". Pharmaceutical benefits under PBS may only be supplied by pharmacists and medical practitioners approved under the Act. Applications to list a drug on the PBS are administered by the Department of Health. Pharmaceutical benefits under the PBS are administered by Medicare Australia (formerly the Health Insurance Commission) under the \"Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth)\".\n\nA benefit under PBS is only given on medications which are listed in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule. The medication may be listed for general use as an unrestricted benefit, or for a specific indication as a restricted benefit. When a PBS medication is dispensed by a pharmacist, the patient pays the patient contribution (subject to concessions and safety nets) and Medicare Australia pays the remainder of the agreed cost of the medication to the pharmacist.\n\nThe cost of a medication is negotiated between the government, through the Department of Health, and the supplier of the drug. The agreed price becomes the basis of the dispensed price of the medication which is negotiated between the government and the Pharmacy Guild of Australia under the current Community Pharmacy Agreement. The dispensed price includes the wholesaler's markup, pharmacist's markup, and a dispensing fee. Pharmacies purchase PBS-listed drugs from the wholesaler or supplier, and claim the difference between the dispensed price and the patient co-payment contribution from Medicare Australia.\n\nThe PBS is separate to its counterpart, the Medical Benefits Schedule, which provides subsidised medical services such as doctors consultations and diagnostic tests.\n\nWhen purchasing a medication under PBS the maximum price a patient pays is the patient contribution (also called a co-payment or out-of-pocket cost), which in 2016 is A$38.30 for general patients. For PBS medications costing less than $38.30, the patient pays the PBS dispensed price plus an additional $1.17 safety net recording fee plus an optional pharmacy charge of $4.33 or less, provided that the total charge does not exceed $38.30. Concessional patients - i.e., low-income earners, welfare recipients, Health Care Card holders, etc. and those covered under the Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (RPBS) - pay a patient contribution of $6.20 in 2016. Patient contributions are compulsory and cannot be discounted by pharmacies.\n\nSafety net provisions in PBS reduce patient contributions when singles and families exceed in a calendar year the PBS safety net threshold: when a general patient reaches the general PBS threshold, their co-payment reduces to the concession price for the remainder of that calendar year; while concession patients who reach the concession PBS threshold do not pay anything on PBS medications for the remainder of the year. The PBS safety net is separate from and in addition to the Medicare safety nets.\n\nChanges in patient contributions and the safety net over the years are as follows:\n\nIn an effort to limit the cost of PBS by discouraging patients from filling PBS prescriptions earlier than needed, in 2009 the safety net 20-day rule was brought in. Under the rule, a repeat prescription supplied within 20 days of a previous supply of the same medicine will not count towards the PBS safety net threshold. If the patient has already reached the safety net threshold, they will be charged the normal patient contribution instead of the reduced safety net amount.\n\nIn an effort to limit the cost of PBS, the Australian Government introduced Brand Premiums on medications where cheaper generic brands were available. The Brand Premium is usually the price difference between the innovator brand and the generic brand. The patient pays the Brand Premium in addition to the normal patient contribution if they decline to purchase the generic brand. The Brand Premium paid does not count toward either safety net threshold and must still be paid even after the threshold is reached.\n\nPharmacists are allowed to substitute generic brands for prescribed brands if the brands are flagged \"a\" in the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits, and if consent is obtained from the patient and prescriber. The prescriber's consent is always assumed to be granted unless \"brand substitution not permitted\" is indicated on the prescription.\n\nOn 1 February 1998, another effort to limit the cost of the PBS involved the introduction of Therapeutic Group Premiums (TGPs) on medications that are priced significantly above the cheapest medication in a defined therapeutic sub-group where the drugs are considered to be of similar safety and efficacy. The TGP is the price difference between the premium brand and the benchmark (base) price for drugs in the class. The patient must pay this TGP in addition to the normal patient co-payment contribution if they have been prescribed such a medication. The TGP paid does not count toward the Safety Net threshold.\n\nHowever, a prescriber may obtain an exemption from the TGP if:\n\nSuch an exemption requires an approved PBS Authority prescription from Medicare Australia.\n\nPBS subsidies are available only to Australian residents (who generally must produce a Medicare card) and to certain foreign visitors whose countries have entered into a Reciprocal Health Care Agreement with Australia. These countries are the United Kingdom, Ireland, New Zealand, Malta, Italy, Sweden, the Netherlands, Finland, Norway, Belgium and Slovenia. Eligible foreign visitors must produce a passport to obtain subsidised medications.\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) makes recommendations to the Minister for Health and Ageing regarding drugs which should be made available as pharmaceutical benefits, which are listed on the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits. The Schedule is published monthly since January 2007, (prior to this it was published three times a year).\n\nIn considering a medication for listing on the PBS, the PBAC considers factors including:\n\nDecisions on PBS listing are generally made on a health economics perspective, using cost-effectiveness analysis. Cost-effectiveness analysis evaluates the cost and health effects of one technology versus the cost and health effects of another technology, which is usually standard of care. A new technology whose incremental health benefit justifies its additional expense is deemed to be cost-effective and thus reimbursed by PBAC. Drugs that provide little health benefit at considerable additional expense, such as the PDE5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil) and certain expensive cancer chemotherapy drugs are not listed on the basis of poor cost-effectiveness. The principles that are applied during the evaluation of drugs for PBS listing are described in the PBAC Guidelines.\n\nDrugs that have unrestricted benefit listing on the PBS are available for general use without being limited to particular indications. Such items are typically those whose use in clinical practice is widely accepted. Examples include methotrexate, prednisone and amoxycillin.\n\nCertain medications listed on the PBS are available only for specific therapeutic indications or to patients meeting specific criteria where the PBAC has deemed that the cost-benefit analysis is favourable only in those indications/patients. These are noted as \"restricted benefits\" on the Schedule. Medicare Australia places the onus of policing restricted benefits on the prescribers themselves and the pharmacists dispensing (unless the listing is also 'Authority Required'). For example, the COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib is listed on the PBS as a restricted benefit for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Prescribers using celecoxib for other indications are expected to indicate \"non-PBS\" on the prescription, and/or the pharmacist dispensing the celecoxib should charge the patient the full cost.\n\nSome PBS medications are restricted and require prior approval from Medicare Australia. These are noted as \"authority required benefits\" on the Schedule. Again, the PBAC has deemed that the cost-benefit analysis is favourable only under in specific indications/patients under certain circumstances. Authority may be obtained by telephone to Medicare Australia (known as \"phone approval\") or in writing from an authorised delegate of the Minister for Health. Prescriptions must be written on Authority Prescription Form, and the approval number must be noted on the prescription. Pharmacists cannot dispense the item as a pharmaceutical benefit unless it has been approved by Medicare Australia (indicated by the presence of the approval number).\n\nIn obtaining a phone approval, the doctor simply identifies themselves (using their name and provider number), the patient (using their Medicare number), and when asked by the operator, confirms which of the conditions eligible for an authority the patient is suffering from. Medicare normally assumes the doctor's assertion that the condition exists as sufficient. For a written Authority however, evidence of diagnosis and patient eligibility criteria such a pathology test results are usually required.\n\nSome drugs may have Authority Required (Streamlined) status which does not require an explicit approval from Medicare, instead the doctor can use the Authority code found in the published Schedule for a given drug/indication.\n\nIn its first year, the PBS cost the Commonwealth Government £149,000 (or $7,600,000 in 2009). The PBS now costs the Commonwealth approximately $6.5 billion a year to operate, despite consumers contributing around $1.3 billion in patient co-payments. According to a report by the Australian Productivity Commission the PBS is expected to cost 2.6% of Australia's GDP by 2045 up from 0.7% in 2005. Further attempts to restrain the growth in costs of the PBS may be needed, however, attempts to increase consumer prices of drugs have always proved politically unpopular. The comparative cost-effectiveness processes of the PBS nonetheless ensure it provides Australian citizens with more equitable access to medicines than in many other developed nations and for many the issue of sustainability of the PBS as a key component of the egalitarian architecture of Australian society is equivalent to asking whether that nation's education system or defence forces are sustainable.\n\nFormer federal Treasurer Peter Costello and the Liberal Party attempted to raise the patient co-payment of PBS medicines by up to 30 per cent in the 2002 Federal Budget, however this measure was blocked in the Senate in which various minor parties held the balance of power. However, in June 2004 the main opposition party, the Australian Labor Party, announced that it would allow the PBS co-payment increases to proceed through the Senate.\n\nGrattan Institute Health Program released a report titled \"Australia’s bad drug deal\" by Dr Stephen Duckett, in which he states that Australia’s Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme pays at least $1.3 billion a year too much for prescription drugs. New Zealand, which has capped its budget and appointed independent experts to make decisions through the Pharmaceutical Management Agency (Pharmac), pays a sixth as much as the PBS for the same drugs. Public hospitals in two Australian states pay much lower prices than the PBS. In one case,the prices are just a sixth of PBS prices. In one extreme example the report states that \"The price of one drug, Olanzapine, is 64 times higher on the PBS than in Western Australian public hospitals\". This report proposes three ways Australia can regain its lost leadership in pharmaceutical pricing.\n\nIn July 2007 changes to the \"National Health Act 1953 (Cth)\" divided the PBS formulary into an F1 category (for patented, single brand medicines) and an F2 category (for generic medicines) with reduced reference pricing between them. Academic opinion is divided about the value of these changes and the extent to which they arose from industry lobbying drawing strength from Annex 2C of the AUSFTA.\n\nThe biggest cuts on prices of medicines in Australian history occurred from 1 April 2012 under the Gillard Labor government. PBS pricing for low-income consumers remained at $5.80 per script.\n\n17 types of medication will be removed from the PBS, including Panadol Osteo, aspirin, iron/folic supplements, electrolytes, and laxatives. Other medications include medication for reflux, skin allergies, antacids, urine test strips, and Vitamin B12 injections. This proposed plan will save taxpayers approximately $87 million a year. \n\n"}
{"id": "3174938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3174938", "title": "Pierre Joxe", "text": "Pierre Joxe\n\nPierre Joxe (born 28 November 1934 in Paris) is a former French Socialist politician and has been a member of the Constitutional Council of France since 2001.\n\nA graduate of the \"Ecole nationale d'administration\", he joined the Court of Audit of France in the 1960s. Whereas his father, Louis Joxe, was Justice Minister of Charles de Gaulle, Pierre Joxe entered politics as a follower of François Mitterrand, first in the Convention of Republican Institutions, then (from 1971) in the renewed Socialist Party (PS). Considered as one of the closest allies of the PS leader, he was elected as a deputy for the Saône-et-Loire \"département\" in 1973. He presided over the regional council of Burgundy from 1979 to 1982.\n\nIn 1981, when Mitterrand was elected President of France, Joxe became Minister of Industry for only one month, before he became leader of the Socialist group in the French National Assembly. Then, he joined the cabinet as Interior Minister from 1984 to the Socialist defeat in the 1986 legislative election. Re-appointed leader of the PS parliamentary group again, he became the Interior Minister after Mitterrand had won a second presidential term in 1988. He was the author of a new law code for Corsica. In 1991, during the Gulf War, he served as Defense Minister.\n\nDuring March 1993, Joxe gave up politics to lead the Court of Audit of France. Then, he was nominated to the Constitutional Council (2001–2010). He has two sons, Benoît Joxe and Baptiste Joxe, both from his third marriage.\n\nFirst President of the Court of Audit : 1993–2001 (Resignation).\n\nMember of the Constitutional Council of France : 2001–2010.\n\nGovernmental functions\n\nMinister of Defence : 1991–1993.\n\nMinister of Interior : 1988–1991.\n\nMinister of Interior and Decentralization : 1984–1986.\n\nMinister of Industry : May–June 1981.\n\nElectoral mandates\n\nNational Assembly of France\n\nPresident of the Socialist Party Group in the National Assembly : 1981–1984 (Became minister in 1984) / 1986–1988. Elected in 1981, reelected in 1986.\n\nMember of the National Assembly of France for Saône-et-Loire : 1973–1981 (Became minister in 1981) / 1981–1984 (Became minister in 1984) / 1986–1988 (Became minister in 1988). Elected in 1978, reelected in 1978, 1981, 1986, 1988.\n\nRegional Council\n\nPresident of the Regional Council of Bourgogne : 1979–1982.\n\nRegional councillor of Ile-de-France : 1992–1993 (Resignation).\n\nGeneral Council\n\nGeneral councillor of Saône-et-Loire : 1973–1979.\n\nMunicipal Council\n\nDeputy-mayor of Chalon-sur-Saône : 1977–1983.\n\nMunicipal councillor of Chalon-sur-Saône : 1977–1983.\n\nCouncillor of Paris : 1989–1993 (Resignation).\n"}
{"id": "3553645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3553645", "title": "Quong Wing v R", "text": "Quong Wing v R\n\nQuong Wing v R is a famous Supreme Court of Canada decision where the Court upheld a provincial law that discriminated against the Chinese.\n\nQuong Wing was a naturalized Canadian citizen, originally from China, who ran a restaurant in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. In 1912, he attempted to hire two white women, Mabel Hopham and Nellie Lane, to work as waitresses. Consequently, he was charged and convicted under a provincial statute, \"An Act to prevent the Employment of Female Labour in certain capacities\", which prohibited white women or girls from working in businesses owned by \"Chinamen\".\n\nWing appealed, arguing that the law was outside the power of the province as laws related to morality were considered criminal matters which is the exclusive authority of the federal government. As well, he argued that the law did not intend to include naturalized citizens.\n\nThe Supreme Court held in a four to one decision that the law was valid. The Court interpreted the word \"Chinaman\" as including all those born in China regardless of subsequent nationality.\n\nJustice John Idington, alone in dissent, was the only one concerned with the justification of the law and held the law to be invalid on the basis that citizenship was a matter of federal jurisdiction and so \"ultra vires\" of provincial powers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1224463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224463", "title": "Ralph Borsodi", "text": "Ralph Borsodi\n\nRalph Borsodi (1886 – October 26, 1977) was an agrarian theorist and practical experimenter interested in ways of living useful to the modern family desiring greater self-reliance (especially so during the Great Depression). Much of his theory related to living in rural surroundings on a modern homestead and was rooted in his Georgist beliefs.\n\nBorn in New York City, he spent the earliest years of his life in Manhattan. His father was a publisher who had connections in the advertising field, and Ralph worked in this business as a boy. By the age of 22, Borsodi was personally testing the idea of moving \"back to the land.\" He had fully embraced the concept of simple living by 1920. Borsodi was influenced by the reformer Bolton Hall (1854–1938), a friend of his father's; Hall introduced Borsodi to the ideas of the economist Henry George. Borsodi was also influenced by Thomas Jefferson, Arthur Schopenhauer, Friedrich Nietzsche, Josiah Warren, Lysander Spooner, Benjamin Tucker, and Laurance Labadie.\n\nBorsodi is chiefly known for his practical experiments in self-sufficient living during the 1920s and 1930s, and for the books he wrote about these experiments. \"The Distribution Age\" (1927), \"This Ugly Civilization\" (1929), and \"Flight from the City\" (1933) are his best known works. He established a School of Living in Rockland County, New York during the winter of 1934–1935. Before long about 20 families began attending regularly from New York City, spending the weekends at the school. Some commentators claim Borsodi’s books inspired \"hundreds of thousands of people\" to follow his example during the Great Depression. In 1948 Borsodi self-published, even doing his own typesetting, \"Education and Living\" a two-volume work designed to suggest a curriculum for the ongoing School of Living. In 1950, Borsodi moved to the Town of Melbourne Village, whose founders had been influenced by his teachings. Mildred Loomis, his most devoted student, continued the work of the School of Living into the 1970s when it was headquartered at Heathcote Community in Freeland, Maryland.\n\nWith Bob Swann, Borsodi created a land trust that functioned as an economic, banking, and credit institution, probably influenced by the ideas of Josiah Warren. Called the Independence Foundation, Inc., Borsodi intended it as a new and ethical way of making low-cost, cooperatively shared credit available to people who wanted to build homesteads in the community. This institution made it possible to provide people access to land without their having to pay outright for property in the beginning.\n\nBorsodi spent decades analyzing the ills of modern society and imagining remedies for the problems. His 1968 work, published in India, and titled \"Seventeen Universal Problems of Man and Society\", catalogued his research and can be considered the beginning of a modern taxonomy of human problems and solutions. His followers felt he usually was working at solving problems at least 20 years before most analysts realized the problem existed. For example, it is said he predicted the inflation of the 1970s some thirty years before it came. One of his interests was in Local currency, and he started an experiment with such a currency in his home area, Exeter, New Hampshire; however, the project came to an early end with Borsodi's failing health. He created a commodity-backed bartering currency called the Constant, reminiscent of Josiah Warren's \"labor notes\" at the Cincinnati Time Store. These appeared first as paper notes, but in 1974, coin-like pieces, called Globes, were minted and sold in 1/2 ounce and 1 ounce .999 silver denominations. The non-profit organization that sponsored them was the International Foundation for Independence, Inc., but the Globes were minted and sold by an organization called Arbitrage International.\n\nBorsodi died in Exeter, New Hampshire in October 1977, survived by his wife Clare and two sons - Edward M. and Ralph W. - by his first wife Myrtle Mae Simpson.\n\nBorsodi was cited as an important modern critic and creative thinker by Helen and Scott Nearing in such writings as \"Living the Good Life\", a book sometimes credited as being the clarion call of the back-to-the-land movement of the 1970s. J.I. Rodale, who founded \"Organic Gardening and Farming\" magazine got his introduction to organic gardening at Borsodi's Dogwood Acres Homestead, as did the Keene family, founders of Walnut Acres organic food catalog. Borsodi was also a significant influence on the American libertarian movement.\n\nA number of Borsodi's texts can be found in the Social Criticism section of the Soil and Health Online Library.\n\n\n\n\nAvailable at Soil and Health Online Library:\n"}
{"id": "50117796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50117796", "title": "Reactions to the Panama Papers", "text": "Reactions to the Panama Papers\n\nThis article lists some of the reactions and responses from countries and other official bodies regarding the leak of legal documents related to offshore tax havens from the law firm Mossack Fonseca, called the Panama Papers.\n\nArgentine President Mauricio Macri is listed as head of a trading company based in the Bahamas that he did not disclose during his tenure as Mayor of Buenos Aires; it is not clear whether disclosure of non-equity directorships was then required under Argentine law.\n\nOn April 7, 2016, federal prosecutor Federico Delgado began a formal investigation into Macri's involvement with Fleg Trading Ltd., the company registered in Panama for which President Macri was listed as director. Judge Sebastián Casanello was asked to start the file on the inquiry. The initial petition was made by Neuquén representative Darío Martínez. Martínez claims Macri could be guilty of perjury due to omissions made in his sworn statement. Martínez also referenced another offshore company, Kagemusha SA (named after Akira Kurosawa's 1980 film), which had been established in 1981 and to which President Macri also had connections.\n\nOn 20 September 2017, the civil judge Andrés Fraga determined that in the company Fleg Trading Ltd, of the Bahamas, Mauricio Macri only accepted the position of director for which he was appointed to the sole and only effect of designating a replacement and resigning, and that in Kagemusha he did not even accept tacitly the position of director for which he was appointed by Francisco Macri. The ruling adds that neither of the two companies he was a shareholder, that he did not receive any dividends or profits, did not participate in the business decisions or in any business, nor was he the owner or co-owner of any current bank account of the companies.\n\nThe family of Argentine football player Lionel Messi announced that they will file a complaint after reports accused him of assembling a tax evasion network in Panama. The family denied Messi had been involved and called the accusations slanderous. They said that the company referred to in the Panama Papers was inactive and that Messi had declared all income from image rights before and after proceedings with the Argentine Tax Agency.\n\nOn April 4, 2016 \"Hetq Online\" reported that according to the Panama Papers, Major-General of Justice and head of the Armenia's Compulsory Enforcement Service Mihran Poghosyan was connected to three Panama-registered companies (Sigtem Real Estates Inc., Hopkinten Trading Inc. and Bangio Invest S.A., being the sole owner of Sigtem and Hopkinten). On April 8, Armenian Transparency International Anti-Corruption Center filed a petition with the Ethics Committee for High Level Officials, requesting an investigation of Poghosyan. Members of the families of Poghosyan's uncles Grigor and Mikhail Haroutyunyan were also mentioned in connection with his business.\n\nThe Australian Taxation Office has announced that it is investigating 800 individual Australian taxpayers on the Mossack Fonseca list of clients and that some of the cases may be referred to the country's Serious Financial Crime Task Force.\n\nAzerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev did not respond to repeated requests for comments.\n\nAccording to ICIJ website, \"The family of Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev leads a charmed, glamorous life, thanks in part to financial interests in almost every sector of the economy. ... [Aliyev's daughter] Arzu, has financial stakes in a firm that won rights to mine for gold in the western village of Chovdar and Azerfon, the country's largest mobile phone business. Arzu is also a significant shareholder in SW Holding, which controls nearly every operation related to Azerbaijan Airlines (\"Azal\"), from meals to airport taxis. Both sisters and brother Heydar own property in Dubai valued at roughly $75 million in 2010; Heydar is the legal owner of nine luxury mansions in Dubai purchased for some $44 million.\"\n\nAccording to numerous media outlets, two conglomerates and thirty-two Bangladeshi shareholders are listed. Top business personalities include Muhammed Aziz Khan, Mohiuddin Monem, and Samson H. Chowdhury. Awami League Presidium member Kazi Zafarullah and his wife Nilufar Zafar are said to be in the list.\n\nOn April 7, 2016, The Anti Corruption Commission Bangladesh launched an inquiry to obtain details of the businesses and individuals and said that tax evaders would be brought to trial and punished.\n\nPoliticians from seven parties in Brazil were named as clients of a Panama-based firm at the center of a massive data leak over possible tax evasion. The leaked files included politicians from Brazil's largest party, the PMDB, which broke away from President Dilma Rousseff's coalition in 2016. Political figures from the PSDB, the most prominent opposition party in the country, was also mentioned in the leaks, as well as others from the PDT, PP, PSB, PSD and the PTB parties. No politicians from Rousseff's Party were mentioned in the leaks. A research in the Panama papers, from a group of Dutch journalists from the daily newspaper Trouw, has shown that TV Globo is cited \"many times\" in a money laundering investigation of the De Nederlandsche Bank which revealed that for years the media outlet conducted several \"irregular financial transactions\" through tax havens in order to pay broadcast rights for the Copa Libertadores.\n\nIn the British Virgin Islands Mossack Fonseca were subjected to a 6-month investigation by the regulator, the British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission. At the end of the investigation they were fined US$440,000 for breaches of regulations countering terrorist financing regulations and against money laundering. The fine was the highest ever levied by the regulator, and just short of the maximum fine that they had power to impose.\n\nCanadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has denied any involvement with the leak, saying \"I have entirely and completely been transparent about mine and my family’s finances. That is something I learned early on that Canadians expect from their leaders.\" The Government has ordered the Canada Revenue Agency to find copies of the Panama Papers, in order to find any Canadians that used offshore accounts to avoid taxes.\n\nThe Royal Bank of Canada CEO David McKay announced that the bank set up a team that will look back through four decades of documentation for ties to Mossack Fonseca. CEO Bill Downe of the Bank of Montreal also defended, saying \"Canadian banks have 'dramatically' beefed up anti-money laundering controls over the last seven to 10 years.\" He also stated that any link between Canadian businesses and the Panama Papers would have originated a long time ago, before the time when Canadian banks took action to stop money laundering.\n\nRelatives of highly placed Chinese officials including seven senior leaders and former senior leaders of Politburo of the Communist Party of China have been named, including former Premier Li Peng's daughter Li Xiaolin, former Communist Party General Secretary Hu Yaobang's son Hu Dehua and Deng Jiagui, the brother-in-law of current General Secretary Xi Jinping. Deng had two shell companies in the British Virgin Islands while Xi was a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, but they were dormant by the time Xi became General Secretary of Communist Party (paramount leader) in 2012. Others named include the son and daughter-in-law of propaganda chief Liu Yunshan and the son-in-law of Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli. China's government is suppressing mentions of the Panama Papers on social media and in search engines results. China's Communist party reportedly has told news organizations to delete all content related to the Panama Papers leak.\n\nConsidering the material to be a concerted foreign media attack on China, internet information offices were immediately given verbal orders to delete reprinted reports on the Panama Papers, and not to follow up on related content without exceptions. Hong Lei, the spokesman of China's Foreign Ministry, responded that he had \"no comment\" for \"such groundless accusations\" at an April 5 news conference.\n\nChina is in the third year of an anti-corruption campaign launched by Xi which has punished more than 300,000 party officials for financial misdeeds and created many enemies for Xi.\n\nChinese authorities have blocked almost all information about the Panama Papers on Chinese media and the Internet. A screenshot showed that the authority had forced all websites to delete content about the Panama Papers. Foreign websites such as Wikileak, China Digital Times have been blocked in mainland China. Official media, like The Global Times (\"Huanqiu Shibao\") reported the resignation of Prime Minister of Iceland, but the media never mentioned that the Panama Papers caused the resignation. On Sina Weibo, a Twitter-like social media in China, almost all content about the Panama Papers was deleted. Because Xi's brother-in-law had been named, and the Panama Canal is well known, Weibo users started to use \"brother-in-law\", \"Canal Papers\", and other such tags to avoid Weibo's censor. Because of the censorship in mainland China, few Chinese people know of the Panama Papers.\n\nThe National Directorate of Taxes and Customs launched an investigation into all 850 clients of Mossack Fonseca Colombia, a subsidiary of Mossack Fonseca that was established in 2009. In 2014, Colombia had placed Panama onto its blacklist of tax havens.\n\nCentral Bank of Cyprus officially declared: \"With regard to press reports citing leaked documents, known as the Panama Papers, the Central Bank of Cyprus announces that it is assessing the information to the extent that it may concern the Cypriot banking system and taking, where necessary, appropriate action.\" A Cypriot online paper said \"The Cyprus link stems from the fact that Fonseca runs an office in Cyprus and, more specifically, in Limassol. In a chart, the leaks name Cyprus as a tax haven (countries that offer little or no tax), although it has a corporate tax rate of 12.5%, the same as Ireland.\"\n\nMany senior EU figures have been implicated in the Panama Papers scandal. The European Commissioner for Taxation, Pierre Moscovici, has said that the European Union as a whole had a \"duty\" to prevent the kind of tax avoidance uncovered in the Panama Papers scandal. Moscovici told reporters the use of offshore companies to hide what he called \"shocking amounts\" of financial assets from tax authorities was \"unethical\". He estimated that the tax shelters resulted in an annual loss of some €1 trillion in public finances, adding that the European Commission attempted to tighten tax rules across the union since November 2014 due to the \"LuxLeaks\" tax avoidance scandal (also revealed by the ICIJ), and hoped the extent of the Panama Papers revelations would spur countries to action.\n\nIn a 2013 letter unearthed by the \"Financial Times\" to then-president of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom David Cameron said that offshore trusts should not automatically be subject to the same transparency requirements as shell companies. Some analysts suggested that these actions may affect the outcome of the referendum on UK membership of the EU.\n\nAlaa Mubarak, son of former president Hosni Mubarak, was cited as owning, through holding companies, real estate properties in London.\n\nFrench financial prosecutors opened a probe, and President François Hollande declared that tax evaders would be brought to trial and punished. Also as a result, France restored Panama to its tax havens list, from which it had recently been removed.\n\nJean-Marie Le Pen, founder and long-time leader of the far-right-wing Front National is mentioned in the documents, along with several aides of his daughter Marine Le Pen, the current party leader.\n\nOn April 5, 2016, Prime Minister of Iceland Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson announced his resignation. Reykjavík City Council Member Júlíus Vífill Ingvarsson resigned earlier in the day.\n\nShortly after initial reports of Sigmundur Davíð's resignation, the Prime Minister's office in Iceland issued a statement to the international press saying that Sigmundur Davíð had not resigned, but rather stepped aside for an unspecified amount of time and would continue to serve as the Chairman of the Progressive Party. In the fall of 2017, Sigmundur Davíð left the Progressive Party and created a populist party called the Centre Party. The Centre Party received 10.9% of the vote in the Icelandic parliamentary election held in October 2017.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered an inquiry, and subsequently the Indian government announced that it was constituting a special multi-agency group comprising officers from the investigative unit of the Central Board of Direct Taxes and its Foreign Tax and Tax Research division, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Reserve Bank of India. The list contains names of more than 500 prominent Indian actors, politicians and businessmen who have allegedly stashed money in offshore entities in Panama. Some of them include Bollywood megastar Amitabh Bachchan and his daughter-in-law actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, DLF promoter KP Singh, Vinod Adani, Adani Group promoter's elder brother and Iqbal Mirchi\n\nFinance Minister, Bambang P.S. Brodjonegoro, immediately responded quickly to the leaked data of tax evasion \"Panama Papers\" by instructing the Directorate General of Taxation (DGT) to follow up the findings. Leaked investment data originating from Panama law firm, Mossack Fonseca, attracted Bambang's attention because they can be a source of new information about the potential tax that has not been traced.\n\n\"I've asked Mr Ken (Dwijugiasteadi), Director General of Taxation, please let's study the data known as Panama Papers\", he said at the headquarters of the DGT, Tuesday (5/4).\n\nFinance Minister once said there is potential for the property of the taxpayer around Rp 4,000 trillion, which has not been affected by the tax. He specifies, around Rp 1,400 trillion, is a property that is not taxed, and remitted to the DGT, while the remaining Rp 2,700 trillion, a rich Indonesian deposits in banks abroad.\n\nSome 600 Israeli companies and 850 Israeli shareholders are listed. Among the Israeli names found in the leaked documents are: top attorney Dov Weissglass, who was the bureau chief of the late prime minister Ariel Sharon; Jacob Engel, a businessman active in the African mining industry; and Idan Ofer, a member of one of Israel's wealthiest families, according to \"Haaretz\". Tareq Abbas, a son of Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, was also revealed to hold $1 million in shares of an offshore company associated with the Palestinian Authority.\n\nWeissglass' name appears as a sole owner of one of four companies set up by his business partner Assaf Halkin. The company, Talaville Global, was registered in the British Virgin Islands in May 2012, according to \"Haaretz\", and seven months later, all of its shares were mortgaged against a loan from a Vienna bank.\n\nWeissglass and Halkin told \"Haaretz\" that the company \"was registered for the purpose of receiving a loan from the bank in order to invest in European properties. The bank would only allow a loan to a corporation... [the] company activity is reported to the tax authorities in Israel. The required tax on the said activity is paid in Israel.\"\n\nOn April 6, 2016 Italy's Procura of Turin ordered Guardia di Finanza to further investigate the 800 Italians contained in the Panama Paper's documents.\n\nAristóteles Núñez, who is in charge of the government's tax administration, , said that people involved in the Panama Papers case can still make tax declarations and pay taxes on their investments. Being Mexican and having foreign investments or bank accounts is not a crime, but having income and not declaring it is illegal. If the concealment of income from Panama Papers-related investments is categorized as tax evasion, fines of up to 100% of the omitted tax payment can result, as well as three months to nine years imprisonment for a \"tax crime\".\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", \"Hinojosa and other prominent Mexicans, mostly businessmen with close ties to the government, including at least one member of the Forbes billionaires list, were the subject of extensive articles published on line by \"Proceso\" and \"Aristegui Noticias Sunday\" to coincide with the ICIJ posting of the Panama Papers.\"\n\nNew Zealand's Inland Revenue Department said that they were working to obtain details of people who have tax residence in the country who may have been involved in arrangements facilitated by Mossack Fonseca.\n\nGerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, told Radio New Zealand on April 8, 2016 that New Zealand is a well-known tax haven and a \"nice front for criminals\".\n\nThe Norwegian Tax Administration expects to demand access to information from DNB (Norway's largest financial services group) about approximately 30 companies formed by DNB that are owned by Norwegians, 20 of whom are living in Norway. 200 Norwegians are on the client list of Mossack Fonseca.\n\nThe three children of prime minister Nawaz Sharif, Maryam, Hussein and Hassan, are shown as owning four companies among them.\nMaryam Nawaz denied all such charges via her official Twitter account in a series of tweets, saying:\n\nSamina Durrani, the mother-in-law of chief minister Shebaz Sharif from his second marriage and Ilyas Mehraj, his brother-in-law from his first marriage are also included in the documents.\n\nThe leaks resulted in a high-profile case against the prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, in the Supreme Court of Pakistan which returned a 3-2 verdict in favor of further investigation into the Sharif family's businesses. A Joint investigation Team was formed by the Supreme Court in May 2017 to probe the family's assets in this regard. It will have to render its report before the court within 60 days of its first session.\n\nOn July 28, 2017, as per results of the investigation, Supreme Court of Pakistan disqualified the Prime Minister of Pakistan from holding the public office also permanently disqualified and corruption case referred to NAB of Pakistan\n\nThe Procuraduría de la Nación announced that it will open an investigation concerning the international journalistic investigation \"Panama papers\", where Mossack Fonseca is involved. Minister of the Presidency, Alvaro Alemán categorically rejects that Panama is considered a tax haven and ruled that no permit is used the country as a \"scapegoat\", thus reacting to the scandal \"Panama Papers\" and the subsequent re-registration by France in the list of tax havens. Alemán criticized vigorously the statements made by the Secretary General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) José Ángel Gurría and Minister of Finance of France, Michael Sapin and considered as disrespectful and irresponsible, especially when publications speak of a total of 21 jurisdictions, but only lash out at Panama. Alemán explained that talks have started with the French ambassador in Panama, with whom the issue will be discussed preliminarily and establish avenues of understanding to clarify the situation being implicated the country.\nEduardo Morgan, from the Panamanian firm Morgan & Morgan accuses the OECD of being behind the campaign to avoid competition that Panama represents for the interests of other countries.\nThe Panama Papers are a very serious issue for Panama because it affects in an \"unfair\" manner the country's image and is not the result of an investigation, but is a \"hack\". This was stated on April 5, by Adolfo Linares, president of the Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture of Panama (Cciap).\nThe Colegio Nacional de Abogados de Panama (CNA) urged the Panamanian government to sue anyone who has affected the country's image with the massive leak of documents linking the Panamanian firm Mossack Fonseca with the creation of companies to move capital evading taxes.\nPolitical analyst Mario Rognoni said that Panama is the most affected in the whole scandal 'Panama Papers'. He said the world is pointing to Panama as a tax haven and will depend on the policies adopted by the authorities.\nOn the government of President Juan Carlos Varela, he believes he might be involved if he tries to cover up the responsibility of those involved.\nEconomist Rolando Gordon said this hurts the country that has just emerged from the gray list of FATF. The US could ask Panama to modify the law, he said.\nHe explained that at this time is seen as a scandal, but will each country, especially Panama to conduct investigations and determine whether it is true that illegal or improper acts were committed. Panama's Lawyers Movement listed as a 'cyber bullying or international cyberterrorism' scandal called 'Panama Papers'. In a press conference, the guild primarily condemned the attack on the country brand 'Panama'. Fraguela Alfonso, president of the movement, said there is no doubt that this is a direct attack on the country's financial system.'I invite all organized forces of the country to create a great crusade for the rescue of the country's image, \"he said.He said that Panama is not a tax haven and Panamanian corporations are widely used by the Panamanians.The law firm Rubio, Alvarez, Solis & Abrego also reacted and in a press release detailing that \"in recent decades Panama has been in the financial and most important services in Latin America and the world plazas. Product of it all kinds of attacks on our service system 'are encouraged.'\nThe establishment of an offshore company is legal. The lawyer and excontralor of the Republic Alvin Weeden explained that illegal is that the product created or sold to others is used for money laundering or arms smuggling, terrorism, tax evasion.\nThis case was published on Twitter: 'Is like you create an atomic bomb, you sell it to another country and detonate them in another country'.\n\nThe \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", which made the papers public, has described the connections of various individuals listed in the papers to Russian President Vladimir Putin. According to the newspaper, the release of the papers confirms the previous descriptions of Russia as a kleptocratic \"Mafia state\" run by Putin and his inner circle. Vladimir Putin does not appear in any of the records but the names of many of his associates do, such as construction billionaires Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, as well as the professional musician Sergei Roldugin and business magnate Alisher Usmanov. The papers also list billionaire Gennady Timchenko, Putin's press secretary's spouse, his cousin, Putin's former KGB colleagues, and several oligarchs as owning offshore shell companies. In 2011 Putin had criticized offshore companies as \"unpatriotic\".\n\nThe documents leaked indicated that Sergei Roldugin, a professional cellist described by Novaya Gazeta as Vladimir Putin's best friend and the godfather of his eldest daughter, had acquired assets worth at least $100 million, including a 12.5% stake in Video International, Russia's largest television advertising firm. It was also revealed that Roldugin had acquired these assets in what the \"BBC\" described as \"suspicious deals\".\n\nPutin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said that Western mainstream media reporting of the Panama Papers was engaged in \"Putinophobia\". He said the primary target of the leak was Vladimir Putin and the Panama Papers were part of a conspiracy against Russia, orchestrated by the Central Intelligence Agency, the United States Department of State and others.\n\nPresident Putin has denied \"any element of corruption\" over the Panama Papers leaks, saying his opponents are trying to destabilise Russia.\n\nInitially, aside from few independent outlets, Russian media entirely ignored the leak. \"Channel 1\" and \"Rossiya 1\", both state owned, did not mention the Panama Papers at all on April 4, when the story broke. When an opposition politician asked why the media was ignoring the story, Dmitry Kiselev, head of \"Rossiya Segodnya\", refused to discuss or comment. To the extent that some coverage was given to the story it was often done in the middle of the night, and focused exclusively on international celebrities rather than the links to Putin's circles found in the papers. Coverage of the leak began to appear after Peskov's reaction, but generally focused on Peskov's comments rather than discussing the information in the Panama Papers.\n\nKing Salman has been mentioned in the leaks in relation to two British Virgin Islands companies taking mortgages in excess of US$34 million to purchase property in central London. His role has not been specified.\n\nThe Crown Prince Muhammad bin Nayef has also been named in association with the Papers.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance and Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a statement that \"Singapore takes a serious view on tax evasion and will not tolerate its business and financial centre being used to facilitate tax related crimes. If there is evidence of wrongdoing by any individual or entity in Singapore, we will not hesitate to take firm action.\"\n\nThe Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FI) said on April 4, 2016 it would launch an investigation into the actions of Nordea, one of the largest financial institutions in the Nordic countries, after Panama Papers revealed the company's Luxembourg office had helped to set up nearly 400 offshore companies for its clients. Later FI informed that they will investigate also the other three big banks in Sweden: Handelsbanken, SEB and Swedbank.\n\nNordea cut all ties with Mossack Fonseca following an interview with Nordea CEO Casper von Koskull on SVT on April 4. The FI has pointed out that there are \"serious deficiencies\" in how Nordea monitors money laundering and has given the bank two warnings. In 2015 Nordea had to pay the largest possible fine – over 5 million EUR.\n\nThe \"Bangkok Post\" said that the \"...Anti-Money Laundering Office (AMLO) is seeking information from its foreign counterparts regarding twenty-one Thai nationals reportedly included in a list of people worldwide using a Panama-based law firm apparently specializing in money laundering and tax evasion. It is not clear how why AMLO is investigating only twentyone. The Panama Papers include at least 780 names of individuals based in Thailand and another fifty companies based in Thailand. Some are foreigners or foreign-owned companiesm but 634 individual addresses in Thailand appear in the documents that have surfaced to date, including the CEOs of giant companies Bangkok Land and Phatra Finance.\n\nThe Tunis trial court prosecutor ordered a judicial inquiry opened into the Panama Papers and the Tunisian political figures suspected of hiring the firm. A judge from the Financial Judiciary Pole that is a Tunisian specialized court in financial crimes was assigned to the case. The Tunisian Assembly of the Representatives of the People established a parliamentary commission of inquiry as well\n\nWhen Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko ran for office in 2014, he pledged to sell his candy business (Roshen) if elected, but leaked documents indicate that on August 21, 2014 he instead had Mossack Fonseca set up offshore holding company Prime Asset Partners Ltd in the British Virgin Islands and moved his company there, roughly two months after the election.The move had the potential to save him millions of dollars on his Ukrainian taxes. Records in Cyprus show him as the firm's only shareholder.\n\nAnti-corruption group Transparency International believes that the \"creation of businesses while serving as president is a direct violation of the constitution\". Also, journalists from the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project believe that with the move Poroshenko committed two other illegalities, starting a new business while in office and failing afterwards to report it on his disclosure statements.\n\nPoroshenko denied any wrongdoing and a spokesman said the offshore company had no active assets and was a legitimate corporate restructure aimed at helping to sell Poroshenko's Roshen group. Analysts in Ukraine responded that the secretive way Poroshenko set up these accounts was certain to undermine trust in him, his party and Ukraine itself.\n\nThe news about Poroshenko's offshore business came as his government campaigned against offshore companies. Oleh Lyashko, leader of the Radical Party, urged lawmakers to begin impeachment proceedings, And even some of his allies backed calls for a parliamentary commission to investigate the allegations.\n\nIn the Ukrainian Parliament, relations between the Poroshenko bloc and the People's Front party of Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk had over previous months already soured, with mutual accusations of corruption.\n\nICIJ, \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\" have reported that UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan owns London real estate worth more than £1.2 billion through a structure of some thirty shell companies Mossack Fonseca set up for him in the British Virgin Islands and administer for him, using them to manage and control the luxury properties in London. By December 2015, Mossack Fonseca held nearly all of the shares in those companies in trust structures on his behalf, with the President and his wife, son and daughter the trust beneficiaries.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", \"More than £170bn of UK property is now held overseas. ... Nearly one in 10 of the 31,000 tax haven companies that own British property are linked to Mossack Fonseca.\" British property purchases worth more than £180 million were investigated in 2015 as the likely proceeds of corruption — almost all bought through offshore companies. Two-thirds of the purchases were made by companies registered in four British Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies which operate as tax havens – Jersey, Guernsey, the Isle of Man and the British Virgin Islands (BVI) – according to Land Registry data obtained by \"Private Eye\" magazine through freedom of information requests. The seller's market has sent prices skyrocketing out of reach for many Londoners.\n\nIncluded among the Papers are the names of six members of the House of Lords, several of whom have been donors to Cameron's Conservative Party, and other Conservative donors. This included:\n\nAs the United Kingdom still exercises varying degrees of control over British Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies which make up a large number of the many tax havens and \"secrecy jurisdictions\" that exist, pressure has mounted on Prime Minister David Cameron to make changes. According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", the Panama Papers \"are shining a light on the constellation of offshore centers in the last remnants of the British Empire, from Gibraltar to the British Virgin Islands.\" Of the companies handled by Mossack Fonseca which were included in the leaked data, British Overseas Territory the BVI topped the list, with 113,000 of the nearly 215,000 companies that Mossack Fonseca managed incorporated there. British Overseas Territory Anguilla was 7th on the list.\n\nCameron criticized complex offshore structures in 2012, saying that it is \"not fair and not right\", while at the G8 summit in 2013 he demanded more transparency, saying that it would be better for business. In 2014, Cameron asked all Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies to set-up an open register of firms and individuals with investments registered in their jurisdictions, but by the time of the Panama Papers leak in April 2016, only Montserrat and Gibraltar had agreed to do so.\n\nLeader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn, said \"The government needs to stop pussyfooting around on tax dodging\" and called for \"direct rule\" to be imposed over British Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies that act as tax havens, a move former Business Secretary Vince Cable agreed with, although former attorney general Dominic Grieve described it as a \"bit of a nuclear option\" which would \"destroy the livelihoods\" of BVI inhabitants in the finance industry. The Labour Party also said that Cameron's plans for an \"anti-corruption\" summit in May would be \"a charade\" if Cameron, as chairman of the summit, did not require representatives of all Crown dependencies and overseas territories to attend.\n\nJennie Granger, a spokeswoman for HMRC said that the department had received \"a great deal of information on offshore companies, including in Panama, from a wide range of sources, which is currently the subject of intensive investigation\". She said HMRC had asked ICIJ to share all its data. \"Private Eye\" and \"The Guardian\" revealed that Edward Troup, appointed executive chair of HMRC in April 2016, was a former partner with Simmons & Simmons, the London-based legal firm whose clients included the Panama-registered fund created by David Cameron's father, Blairmore Holdings. Papers obtained by the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and ICIJ reveal Simmons & Simmons' close relationship with running offshore companies and major overseas property owners, including an investment company run on behalf of Sheikh Hamad bin Abdullah Al Thani, while Troup was its senior tax partner.\n\nBy November 2016 it was reported that a total of 22 people had been subjected to investigation by HMRC relating to potential tax evasion as a result of the Panama Papers, with a further 43 \"under review\".\n\nIan Cameron, the late father of UK Prime Minister David Cameron, ran an offshore fund (Blairmore Holdings, Inc.) through Mossack Fonseca that avoided UK taxes for 30 years. His company moved to Ireland after David Cameron became Prime Minister. On April 6, Cameron admitted that he owned shares in Blairmore, but sold his shares before becoming PM.\n\nProminent politicians criticized the involvement of the Cameron family in the scandal; Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn urged an immediate independent investigation into the tax affairs of Cameron's family as well as tighter laws on UK tax avoidance. Opponents also called for Cameron's resignation after he admitted owning shares in Blairmore.\n\nPresident Barack Obama was critical of Caribbean tax havens in his 2008 election campaign. In 2010, the United States implemented the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act; the law required financial firms around the world to report accounts held by US citizens to the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nFormer Secretary of State and Democratic Presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton condemned \"outrageous tax havens and loopholes ... in Panama and elsewhere\". at a Pennsylvania AFL–CIO event. Clinton added that \"some of this behavior is clearly against the law, and everyone who violates the law anywhere should be held accountable\", but it was \"scandalous how much is actually legal\". Clinton promised that \"We are going after all these scams and make sure everyone pays their fair share here in America.\"\n\nThe US on the other hand refused the Common Reporting Standard set up by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, alongside Vanuatu and Bahrain. This means the US receives tax and asset information for American assets and income abroad, but does not share information about what happens in the United States with other countries, in other words has become attractive as a tax haven.\n\nThe Panama Free Trade Agreement, supported by Obama and Clinton, has been accused of enabling the practices detailed within the Panama Papers through regulatory oversight. However, an Obama administration official said the argument has \"zero merit\". John Cassidy of \"The New Yorker\" says the Panama Free Trade Agreement actually forced Panama to release information to the American regulatory authorities on \"the ownership of companies, partnerships, trusts, foundations, and other persons\".\n\nCiting leaked diplomatic cables, \"Fortune\" writer Chris Matthews speculated that Obama and Clinton may have supported the agreement, after opposing it while campaigning for office, because it was a \"quid pro quo\" for Panamanian support of US efforts against drug trafficking. In any event, he notes, while it is true that the agreement abolished limits on fund transfers between the US and Panama, the Obama administration insisted that the two countries first sign a Tax Information and Exchange Agreement as well, which facilitated the exchange of tax information between the countries.\n\nPresident Barack Obama addressed the overseas shell companies listed by the leak in a press conference: \"It's not that they're breaking the laws,\" he said, \"it's that the laws are so poorly designed that they allow people, if they've got enough lawyers and enough accountants, to wiggle out of responsibilities that ordinary citizens are having to abide by.\" Although no leader in the US was mentioned in the Panama Papers, Obama said that \"Frankly, folks in America are taking advantage of the same stuff\".\n\nSenators Sherrod Brown and Elizabeth Warren have requested that the Treasury Department investigate any US-linked companies that appeared in the leaks, and members of the House of Representatives for the state of New York (Democratic representative Carolyn Maloney – a high-ranking member of the House Banking Committee – and Republican representative Peter T. King) have introduced the \"Incorporation Transparency and Law Enforcement Assistance Act\", a proposed bill which would: ...ensure that persons who form corporations or limited liability companies in the United States disclose the beneficial owners of those corporations or limited liability companies, in order to prevent wrongdoers from exploiting United States corporations and limited liability companies for criminal gain, to assist law enforcement in detecting, preventing, and punishing terrorism, money laundering, and other misconduct involving United States corporations and limited liability companies, and for other purposes.\nAccording to the \"Fair Observer\": \"The law contains many reasonable exemptions, including public corporations (who already have registers of beneficial owners); churches and other non-profits; and owners of businesses with more than 20 employees, $5 million in annual revenues and a physical presence such as an office.\" However, the bill has faced resistance from the National Association of Secretaries of State, who are concerned about loss of tax revenue and the burden of regulation. NASS has also called for \"existing solutions\" being used to combat the issue, saying that \"federal legislation won't work\".\n\nJürgen Mossack testified under oath that M.F. Corporate Services (Nevada) Ltd. had no affiliation with the Panamanian Mossack Fonseca, but the Panama Papers show that it was in fact a wholly owned subsidiary and tried to hide the relationship, ordering emails and other computer footprints deleted. The firm was fighting an order that it turn over the details of 123 shell companies created by an associate of a former President of Argentina.\n\nManhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara has opened a criminal investigation on matters related to the Panama Papers and sent a letter April 3 to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) saying his office \"would greatly appreciate the opportunity to speak as soon as possible.\" The ICIJ received many such requests from many countries and ICIJ Director Gerard Ryle has said its policy is not to turn over any materials.\n\nMcClatchy Newspapers, the only participating US news organization in the investigation, found four Americans with offshore shell companies named in the documents. All had previously been either accused or convicted of financial crimes such as fraud or tax evasion. Three reasons have been suggested to explain the paucity of Americans in the leak:\n\nAsked about the paucity of American individuals in the documents, digital editor of \"Süddeutsche Zeitung,\" Stefan Plöchinger, said via Twitter: \"Just wait for what is coming next.\" Plöchinger later clarified that he was just advocating not jumping to conclusions.\n\nNew York's Department of Financial Services has asked 13 foreign banks, including Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Commerzbank AG, ABN Amro Group NV and Societe Generale SA, for information about their dealings with Mossack Fonseca. The banks are not accused of wrongdoing but must provide telephone logs and records of other transactions between their New York branches and the law firm.\n\nCopies of at least 200 American passports – indicating that their owners applied for banking services – have been discovered in the Papers, but no US politicians have yet been named in the leak.\n\nThe names of a few Americans are however mentioned:\n\nJosmel Velásquez, brother of a security official under the late Hugo Chávez, was arrested April 15 trying to catch a flight out of the country due to an offshore company revealed by the Panama Papers. His mother Amelis Figueroa was also arrested, but allowed to return home due to her health. Venezuelan news site Armando.info reported that Josmel's brother Adrian, a former aide to late President Hugo Chávez, had opened a shell company though Mossack Fonseca in the Republic of the Seychelles with a $50,000 deposit. Their report was based on the documents leaked from Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca. Velásquez was Indicted April 20.\n\nIcelandic investigative journalist and WikiLeaks spokesperson Kristinn Hrafnsson has called for the Panama Papers to be published in full online. Hrafnsson, who worked on Cablegate in 2010, said the withholding of documents is understandable to maximise the impact, but said that in the end the papers should be published in full for the public to access. Hrafnsson's comments were reinforced by a tweet from WikiLeaks which criticized the decision of the ICIJ to not allow full and transparent access to the Panama Papers, stating that, \"If you censor more than 99% of the documents you are engaged in 1% journalism by definition.\" WikiLeaks's position was, in turn, criticized, as the decision to disclose the documents at once would not have been the right one as far as \"journalistic ethics\" were concerned. WikiLeaks also argued via a tweet that the connection between the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists and the American government would undermine the integrity of the news leak; this position was also, in turn, criticized as a theory which \"Vladimir Putin would love.\"\n"}
{"id": "55225718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55225718", "title": "Scottish Assessors", "text": "Scottish Assessors\n\nScottish Assessors (the Scottish Assessors Association, SSA) is a voluntary, non-statutory association of land valuation assessors and their senior staff in Scotland. The association encourages a consistent approach to the administration of valuation, council tax and electoral registration.\n\nFounded in 1975, in conjunction with the abolition of the Scottish counties, Scottish Assessors is the successor to the \"Association of Lands Valuation Assessors of Scotland\", founded in 1957, and the \"Association of Lands Valuation Assessors\", founded in 1886.\n\nThe SAA liaises with the Valuation Office Agency of England and Wales, the Valuation Office (Oifig Luachála) of Ireland, and the Land and Property Service in Northern Ireland.\n\nScottish Assessors are independent public officials who decide the rateable value of property listed on a local valuation roll. They must be members of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and work under the umbrella body, the Scottish Assessors Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "802125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=802125", "title": "Security agency", "text": "Security agency\n\nA security agency is a governmental organization which conducts intelligence activities for the internal security of a nation. They are the domestic cousins of foreign intelligence agencies, and typically conduct counterintelligence to thwart other countries' foreign intelligence efforts. For example, the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is the internal intelligence, security and law enforcement agency, while the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is an external intelligence service, which deals primarily with intelligence collection overseas. A similar relationship exists in Britain between MI5 and MI6.\n\nThe distinction, or overlap, between security agencies, national police, and gendarmerie organizations varies by country. For example, in the United States, one organization, the FBI, is a national police, an internal security agency, and a counterintelligence agency. In other countries, separate agencies exist, although the nature of their work causes them to interact. For example, in France, the Police nationale and the Gendarmerie nationale both handle policing duties, and the Direction centrale du renseignement intérieur handles counterintelligence.\n\nLikewise, the distinction, or overlap, between military and civilian security agencies varies between countries. In the United States, the FBI and CIA are civilian agencies, although they have various paramilitary traits and have professional relationships with the U.S.'s military intelligence organizations. In many countries all intelligence efforts answer to the military, whether by official design or at least on a de facto basis. Countries where various military and civilian agencies divide responsibilities tend to reorganize their efforts over the decades to force the various agencies to cooperate more effectively, integrating (or at least coordinating) their efforts with some unified directorate. For example, after many years of turf wars, the member agencies of the U.S. intelligence community are now coordinated by the Director of National Intelligence, with the hope to reduce stovepiping of information.\n\nIn Ireland, for example, intelligence operations relevant to internal security are conducted by the military (G2) and police (SDU), rather than civilian agencies.\n\nSecurity agencies frequently have \"security\", \"intelligence\" or \"service\" in their names. Private organizations that provide services similar to a security agency might be called a \"security company\" or \"security service\", but those terms can also be used for organizations that have nothing to do with intelligence gathering.\n\nThere is debate about whether some security agencies should be characterized as secret police forces. The extent to which security agencies use domestic covert operations to exert political control varies by country and political system. Such operations can include surveillance, infiltration, and disruption of dissident groups, attempts to publicly discredit dissident figures, and even assassination or extrajudicial detention and execution. Security agencies are constrained in some countries by a mesh of judicial and legislative accountability, whereas in others they may answer only to a single leader or executive committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246533", "title": "Small hydro", "text": "Small hydro\n\nSmall hydro is the development of hydroelectric power on a scale suitable for local community and industry, or to contribute to distributed generation in a regional electricity grid. The definition of a small hydro project varies, but a generating capacity of 1 to 20 megawatts (MW) is common. In contrast many hydroelectric projects are of enormous size, such as the generating plant at the Three Gorges Dam at 22,500 megawatts or the vast multiple projects of the Tennessee Valley Authority. In India, hydro projects up to 25 MW station capacities have been categorized as Small Hydro Power (SHP) projects.\n\nSmall hydro projects may be built in isolated areas that would be uneconomic to serve from a national electricity grid, or in areas where a national grid does not exist.\n\nThe use of the term \"small hydro\" varies considerably around the world, the maximum limit is usually somewhere between 10 and 30 MW. While a minimum limit is not usually set, the US National Hydropower Association specifies a minimum limit of 5 MW. The \"small hydro\" description may be stretched up to in the United States, Canada and China. Small hydro can be further subdivided into mini hydro, usually defined as 100 to 1,000 kilowatts (kW), and micro hydro which is 5 to 100 kW. Micro hydro is usually the application of hydroelectric power sized for smaller communities, single families or small enterprise. The smallest installations are pico hydro, below 5 kW.\n\nSince small hydro projects usually have correspondingly small civil construction work and little or no reservoir, they are seen as having a relatively low environmental impact compared to large hydro.\n\nAccording to a report by REN21, during 2008 small hydro installations grew by 28% over year 2005 to raise the total world small hydro capacity to 85 gigawatts (GW). Over 70% of this was in China (with 65 GW), followed by Japan (3.5 GW), the United States (3 GW) and India (2 GW). Global growth is expected to be 2.8% annually until the mid-2020s when capacity will be about 150 gigawatts.\n\nChina planned to electrify a further 10,000 villages between 2005 and 2010 under their China Village Electrification Program, including further investments in small hydro and photovoltaics. By 2010, China had 45,000 small hydro installations, especially in rural areas, producing 160 Twh annually. Over 50% of the world's potential small hydro power was found in Asia; however, the report noted, \"It is possible in the future that more small hydropower potential might be identified both on the African and American continents\".\n\nIn the mountains and rain forests of British Columbia, Canada there are a great many sites suitable for hydro development. However environmental concerns towards large reservoirs after the 1980s halted new dam construction. The solution to coping with increased demand was to offer contracts to independent power producers, who have built 100 run of the river projects under 50 MW. Power production without reservoirs varies dramatically, but older conventional dams retain or release water to average out production though the year. In 2014 these independent producers generated 18,000 GWh from 4,500 MW of capacity.\n\nHydroelectric power is the generation of electric power from the movement of water. A hydroelectric facility requires a dependable flow of water and a reasonable height for the water to fall, called the head. In a typical installation, water is fed from a reservoir through a pipe into a turbine. The water flowing through the turbine causes a electrical generator to rotate, converting the motion into electrical energy.\n\nSmall hydro may developed by constructing new facilities or through re-development of existing dams whose primary purpose is flood control, or irrigation. Old hydro sites may be re-developed, sometimes salvaging substantial investment in the installation such as penstock pipe and turbines, or just re-using the water rights associated with an abandoned site. Either of these cost saving advantages can make the return on investment for a small hydro site well worth the use of existing sites.\n\nMany companies offer standardized turbine generator packages in the approximate size range of 200 kW to 10 MW. These \"water to wire\" packages simplify the planning and development of the site since one vendor looks after most of the equipment supply. Because non-recurring engineering costs are minimized and development cost is spread over multiple units, the cost of such package systems is reduced. While synchronous generators capable of isolated plant operation are often used, small hydro plants connected to an electrical grid system can use economical induction generators to further reduce installation cost and simplify control and operation.\n\nSmall \"run of the river\" projects do not have a conventional dam with a reservoir, only a weir to form a headpond for diversion of inlet water to the turbine. Unused water simply flows over the weir and the headpond may only be capable of a single day's storage, not enough for dry summers or frozen winters when generation may come to a halt. A preferred scenario is to have the inlet in an existing lake. \n\nCountries like India and China have policies in favor of small hydro, and the regulatory process allows for building dams and reservoirs. In North America and Europe the regulatory process is too long and expensive to consider having a dam and a reservoir for a small project.\n\nSmall hydro projects usually have faster environmental and licensing procedures, and since the equipment is usually in serial production, standardized and simplified, and the civil works construction is also reduced, the projects may be developed very rapidly. The physically smaller size of equipment makes it easier to transport to remote areas without good road or rail access.\n\nOne measure of decreased environmental impact with lakes and reservoirs depends on the balance between stream flow and power production. Reducing water diversions helps the river's ecosystem, but reduces the hydro system's return on Investment (ROI). The hydro system design must strike a balance to maintain both the health of the stream and the economics.\n\nAfrica\nAsia\nEurope\nNorth America\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40229458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40229458", "title": "Socialist Revolutionary Party", "text": "Socialist Revolutionary Party\n\nThe Socialist Revolutionary Party, or Party of Socialists-Revolutionaries (the SRs; , \"esery\") was a major political party in early 20th century Imperial Russia. \n\nA key player in the Russian Revolution, the SRs' general ideology was revolutionary socialism of democratic socialist and agrarian socialist forms. After the February Revolution, it shared power with other liberal and democratic socialist forces within the Russian Provisional Government. In November 1917, it won a plurality of the national vote in Russia's first-ever democratic elections (to the Russian Constituent Assembly), but the October Revolution had changed the political landscape and the Bolsheviks disbanded the Constituent Assembly in January 1918.\n\nThe SRs soon split into pro-Bolshevik and anti-Bolshevik factions. The anti-Bolshevik faction of this party, known as the Right SRs and which remained loyal to the Provisional Government leader Alexander Kerensky, was defeated and destroyed by the Bolsheviks in the course of the Russian Civil War and subsequent persecution.\n\nThe party's ideology was built upon the philosophical foundation of Russia's Narodnik–populist movement of the 1860s–1870s and its worldview developed primarily by Alexander Herzen and Pyotr Lavrov. After a period of decline and marginalization in the 1880s, the Narodnik–populist school of thought about social change in Russia was revived and substantially modified by a group of writers and activists known as \"neonarodniki\" (neo-populists), particularly Viktor Chernov. Their main innovation was a renewed dialogue with Marxism and integration of some of the key Marxist concepts into their thinking and practice. In this way, with the economic spurt and industrialization in Russia in the 1890s, they attempted to broaden their appeal in order to attract the rapidly growing urban workforce to their traditionally peasant-oriented programme. The intention was to widen the concept of the people so that it encompassed all elements in society that opposed the Tsarist regime.\n\nThe party was established in 1902 out of the Northern Union of Socialist Revolutionaries (founded in 1896), bringing together many local socialist revolutionary groups established in the 1890s, notably the Workers' Party of Political Liberation of Russia created by Catherine Breshkovsky and Grigory Gershuni in 1899. As primary party theorist emerged Viktor Chernov, the editor of the first party organ, \"Revolutsionnaya Rossiya\" (\"Revolutionary Russia\"). Later party periodicals included \"Znamia Truda\" (\"Labor's Banner\"), \"Delo Naroda\" (\"People's Cause\") and \"Volia Naroda\" (\"People's Will\"). Party leaders included Gershuni, Breshkovsky, Andrei Argunov, Nikolai Avksentiev, Mikhail Gots, Mark Natanson, Rakitnikov (Maksimov), Vadim Rudnev, Nikolay Rusanov, Ilya Rubanovich and Boris Savinkov.\n\nThe party's program was democratic socialist and agrarian socialist—it garnered much support among Russia's rural peasantry, who in particular supported their program of land-socialization as opposed to the Bolshevik programme of land-nationalisation—division of land to peasant tenants rather than the collectivization in state management. The party's policy platform differed from that of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP)—both Bolshevik and Menshevik—in that it was not officially Marxist (though some of its ideologues considered themselves such). The SRs believed that the labouring peasantry as well as the industrial proletariat would be the revolutionary class in Russia. Whereas RSLDP defined class membership in terms of ownership of the means of production, Chernov and other SR theorists defined class membership in terms of extraction of surplus value from labour. On the first definition, small-holding subsistence farmers who do not employ wage labour are—as owners of their land—members of the petty bourgeoisie whereas on the second definition they can be grouped with all who provide, rather than purchase, labour-power and hence with the proletariat as part of the labouring class. Nevertheless, Chernov considered the proletariat as vanguard and the peasantry as the main body of the revolutionary army.\nThe party played an active role in the 1905 Russian Revolution and in the Moscow and Saint Petersburg Soviets. Although the party officially boycotted the first State Duma in 1906, 34 SRs were elected while 37 were elected to the second Duma in 1907. The party also boycotted both the third and fourth Dumas in 1907–1917. In this period, party membership drastically declined and most of its leaders emigrated from Russia.\n\nA distinctive feature of party tactics until about 1909 was its heavy reliance on assassinations of individual government officials. These tactics were inherited from SRs' predecessor in the populist movement, People's Will, a conspiratorial organization of the 1880s. They were intended to embolden the \"masses\" and intimidate (\"terrorize\") the Tsarist government into political concessions. The SR Combat Organization (SRCO), responsible for assassinating government officials, was initially led by Gershuni and operated separately from the party so as not to jeopardize its political actions. SRCO agents assassinated two Ministers of the Interior, Dmitry Sipyagin and Vyacheslav von Plehve, Grand Duke Sergei Aleksandrovich, the Governor of Ufa N. M. Bogdanovich and many other high-ranking officials.\n\nIn 1903, Gershuni was betrayed by his deputy, Yevno Azef, an agent of the Okhrana secret police, arrested, convicted of terrorism and sentenced to life at hard labor, managing to escape, flee overseas and go into exile. Azef became the new leader of the SRCO and continued working for both the SRCO and the Okhrana, simultaneously orchestrating terrorist acts and betraying his comrades. Boris Savinkov ran many of the actual operations, notably the assassination attempt on Admiral Fyodor Dubasov.\n\nHowever, terrorism was controversial for the party from the beginning. At its 2nd Congress in Imatra in 1906, the controversy over terrorism was one of the main reasons for the defection of the SR Maximalists on the left and the Popular Socialists on the right. The Maximalists endorsed not only attacks on political and government targets, but also economic terror (i.e. attacks on landowners, factory owners and so on) whereas the Popular Socialists rejected all terrorism. Other issues also divided the defectors from the PSR as Maximalists disagreed with the SRs' strategy of a two-stage revolution as advocated by Chernov, the first stage being popular-democratic and the second labour-socialist. To Maximalists, this seemed like the RSDLP distinction between bourgeois-democratic and proletarian-socialist stages of revolution. Maximalism stood for immediate socialist revolution. Meanwhile, the Popular Socialists disagreed with the party's proposal to socialise the land (i.e. turn it over to collective peasant ownership) and instead wanted to nationalise it (i.e. turn it over to the state). They also wanted landowners to be compensated while the PSR rejected indemnities).\n\nIn late 1908, a Russian Narodnik and amateur spy hunter Vladimir Burtsev suggested that Azef might be a police spy. The party's Central Committee was outraged and set up a tribunal to try Burtsev for slander. At the trial, Azef was confronted with evidence and was caught lying, therefore he fled and left the party in disarray. The party's Central Committee, most of whose members had close ties to Azef, felt obliged to resign. Many regional organizations, already weakened by the revolution's defeat in 1907, collapsed or became inactive. Savinkov's attempt to rebuild the SRCO failed and it was suspended in 1911. Gershuni had defended Azef from exile in Zürich until his death there. The Azef scandal contributed to a profound revision of SR tactics that was already underway. As a result, it renounced assassinations (\"individual terror\") as a means of political protest.\n\nWith the start of World War I, the party was divided on the issue of Russia's participation in the war. Most SR activists and leaders, particularly those remaining in Russia, chose to support the Tsarist government mobilization against Germany. Together with the like-minded members of the Menshevik Party, they became known as \"oborontsy\" (\"defensists\"). Many younger defensists living in exile joined the French Army as Russia's closest ally in the war. A smaller group, the internationalists, which included Chernov, favored the pursuit of peace through cooperation with socialist parties in both military blocs. This led them to participate in the Zimmerwald and Kienthal conferences with Bolshevik emigres led by Lenin. This fact was later used against Chernov and his followers by their right-wing opponents as alleged evidence of their lack of patriotism and Bolshevik sympathies.\n\nThe February Revolution allowed the SRs to return to an active political role. Party leaders, including Chernov, returned to Russia. They played a major role in the formation and leadership of the soviets, albeit in most cases playing second fiddle to the Mensheviks. One member, Alexander Kerensky, joined the Provisional Government in March 1917 as Minister of Justice, eventually becoming the head of a coalition socialist-liberal government in July 1917, although his connection with the party was tenuous. He had served in the Duma with the Trudoviks, breakaway SRs that defied the party's refusal to participate in the Duma.\n\nAfter the fall of the first coalition in April–May 1917 and the reshuffling of the Provisional Government, the party played a larger role. Its key government official at the time was Chernov who joined the government as Minister of Agriculture. Chernov also tried to play a larger role, particularly in foreign affairs, but he soon found himself marginalized and his proposals of far-reaching agrarian reform blocked by more conservative members of the government. After the failed Bolshevik uprising of July 1917, Chernov found himself on the defensive as allegedly soft on the Bolsheviks and was excluded from the revamped coalition in August 1917. The party was now represented in the government by Nikolai Avksentiev, a right-wing defensist, as Minister of the Interior.\n\nThis weakening of the party's position intensified the growing divide within it between supporters of the coalition with the Mensheviks and those inclined toward more resolute, unilateral action. In August 1917, Maria Spiridonova, leader of the Left SRs, advocated scuttling the coalition and forming an SR-only government, but she was not supported by Chernov and his followers. This spurred the formation of the left-wing faction and its growing support for cooperation with the Bolsheviks. The Left SRs believed that Russia should withdraw immediately from World War I and they were frustrated that the Provisional Government wanted to postpone addressing the land question until after the convocation of the Russian Constituent Assembly instead of immediately confiscating the land from the landowners and redistributing it to the peasants.\n\nLeft SRs and Bolsheviks referred to the mainstream SR party as the \"Right SR\" party whereas mainstream SRs referred to the party as just \"SR\" and reserved the term \"Right SR\" for the right-wing faction of the party led by Catherine Breshkovsky and Avksentiev. The primary issues motivating the split were the war and the redistribution of land.\n\nAt the Second Congress of Soviets on 25 October, when the Bolsheviks proclaimed the deposition of the Provisional government, the split within the SR party became final. The Left SR stayed at the Congress and were elected to the permanent All-Russian Central Executive Committee executive (while initially refusing to join the Bolshevik government) while the mainstream SR and their Menshevik allies walked out of the Congress. In late November, the Left SR joined the Bolshevik government, obtaining three ministries.\n\nIn the election to the Russian Constituent Assembly held two weeks after the Bolsheviks took power, the party still proved to be by far the most popular party across the country, gaining 40% of the popular vote as opposed to the Bolsheviks' 25%. However, the Bolsheviks disbanded the Assembly in January 1918 and after that the SR became of less political significance. The Left SRs became the coalition partner of the Bolsheviks in the Soviet government, although they resigned their positions after the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (the peace treaty with the Central Powers that ended Russia's participation in World War I). A few Left SRs like Yakov Grigorevich Blumkin joined the Communist Party.\n\nDissatisfied with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, two Chekists who were left SRs assassinated the German ambassador to Russia, Count Wilhelm Mirbach early in the afternoon on 6 July. Following the assassination, the left SRs attempted a \"Third Russian Revolution\" against the Bolsheviks on 6–7 July, but it failed and led to the arrest, imprisonment, exile and execution of party leaders and members. In response, some SRs turned again to violence. A former SR, Fanny Kaplan, tried to assassinate Lenin on 30 August. Many SRs fought for the Whites or Greens in the Russian Civil War alongside some Mensheviks and other banned moderate socialist elements. The Tambov Rebellion against the Bolsheviks was led by an SR, Aleksandr Antonov. However, after Admiral Kolchak was installed as \"Supreme Leader\" of the White Movement in November 1918, he expelled all Marxists from the ranks. As a result, many SRs placed their organization behind White lines at the service of the Red Guards and the Cheka. Later, many Left SRs became Communists.\n\nFollowing Lenin's instructions, a trial of SRs was held in Moscow in 1922, which led to protests by Eugene V. Debs, Karl Kautsky and Albert Einstein among others. Most of the defendants were found guilty, but they did not plead guilty like the defendants in the later show trials in the Soviet Union in the late 1920s and the 1930s.\n\nThe party continued its activities in exile. A Foreign Delegation of the Central Committee was established and based in Prague. The party was a member of the Labour and Socialist International between 1923 and 1940.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26669276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26669276", "title": "Special Intelligence Department", "text": "Special Intelligence Department\n\nThe Special Intelligence Department is headed by the Police Brigadier Generals of the Union of Myanmar. Their job is to issue passports, to carry out investigations, and to ensure security for the homeland.\n"}
{"id": "28936363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28936363", "title": "Tiempo (programme)", "text": "Tiempo (programme)\n\nTiempo is the name given to a programme of activities that provides developing countries with the information necessary to respond effectively to the issue of climate change. Tiempo provides information to help these countries participate in climate treaty negotiations, and to identify and implement appropriate emissions mitigation and adaptation measures. It also provides a forum for communication and debate both within the developing nations and between these nations and the industrialized world.\n\nTiempo is jointly organised by the Stockholm Environment Institute and the International Institute for Environment and Development. It is sponsored by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency.\n\nThe Tiempo website provides information on climate change. It consists of \"The Tiempo Climate Portal\", a listing of selected websites covering climate and development and related issue, and \"Tiempo Climate Newswatch\", a weekly on-line magazine with news, features and comment on global warming, climate change, sea-level rise and development issues.\n\n\"Tiempo\" is a quarterly magazine that gives news and information to practitioners and general readers on climate change issues, and provides an opportunity for developing country authors to present their ideas. It has been in continuous production since 1994. Each issue of the magazine contains a cartoon, some of which have been controversial. Tiempo is currently edited by Saleemul Huq, Hannah Reid, Sarah Granich, Mick Kelly and Johan Kuylenstierna.\n\n\"Tiempo Afrique\" is a French language regional version of the Tiempo quarterly magazine for francophone West Africa. It is produced by the environment organisation ENDA-TM in Dakar, Senegal. Tiempo Afrique is currently edited by Djimingue Nanasta, Jean-Philippe Thomas and Lawrence Flint.\n\n"}
{"id": "17157954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17157954", "title": "To the Left for Independence", "text": "To the Left for Independence\n\nTo the Left for Independence (\"a Manca pro s'Indipendentzia\", aMpI) was a separatist and communist political party in Sardinia. Founded in July 2004, the party's goals were to make Sardinia gain its independence from the Roman rule, start a communist revolution, adopt the Sardinian language as official and de-militarize the island. Some of its members have been accused of terrorism, but there was little, if any, evidence that they were actually terrorists.\n\nFor the 2009 regional election the party formed a joint list, Independence Union, with the more established Sardinia Nation and other minor separatist groups, gaining only 0.5% of the vote and no seats in the Regional Council of Sardinia.\n\nIn the 2014 regional election the party was the main member of the United Independentist Front, whose candidate, aMpI's Pier Franco Devias, won 1.0% of the vote and whose list 0.7%.\n\nThe party has been disbanded in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2818024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2818024", "title": "Toll tin", "text": "Toll tin\n\nToll tin was a term historically used in tin mining in Devon and Cornwall. The holder of a set of tin bounds was required to pay the freeholder of the land on which the bounds had been pitched a portion, called toll tin, of the tin ore (or black tin) extracted.\n\nToll tin became due as soon as the ore was broken from the ground and, although some freeholders may have taken it in this form, it is likely that others opted for the more practical approach of taking it as a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the refined tin (or white tin).\n\nToll tin was not the only way in which a miner's share of the tin extracted was reduced — he was also required to pay a tax to the crown on the refined tin known as tin coinage before the tin could legally be sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "757040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757040", "title": "U.S. Customs and Border Protection", "text": "U.S. Customs and Border Protection\n\nUnited States Customs and Border Protection (CBP) is the largest federal law enforcement agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security, and is the country's primary border control organization. It is charged with regulating and facilitating international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. regulations, including trade, customs, and immigration. CBP is one of the largest law enforcement agencies in the United States. It has a workforce of more than 45,600 sworn federal agents and officers. It has its headquarters in Washington, D.C.\n\nCBP has a workforce of over 58,000 employees, including officers and agents, agriculture specialists, aircraft pilots, trade specialists, mission support staff, and canine enforcement officers and agents.\n\nThere are 328 officially designated ports of entry and an additional 14 pre-clearance locations in Canada, Ireland, the Middle East, Bermuda, and the Caribbean. CBP is also in charge of the Container Security Initiative, which identifies and inspects foreign cargo in its mother country before it is to be imported into the United States.\n\nIn addition the CBP has legal jurisdiction to conduct some activities up to 100 miles (161 km) inwards from any land or sea border. This can include operating interior checkpoints.\n\nCBP assess all passengers flying into the U.S. for terrorist risk via the Joint Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) and systems such as Advance Passenger Information System (APIS), United States Visitor and Immigrant Status Indication Technology (US-VISIT), and the Student and Exchange Visitor System (SEVIS). CBP also works with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to screen high-risk imported food shipments in order to prevent bio-terrorism and agro-terrorism.\n\nThrough the Container Security Initiative, CBP works jointly with host nation counterparts to identify and screen containers that pose a risk at the foreign port of departure before they are loaded on board vessels bound for the U.S. CSI is implemented in 20 of the largest ports in terms of container shipments to the U.S., and at a total of 58 ports worldwide.\n\nThe Secure Electronic Network for Travelers Rapid Inspection (SENTRI) program allows pre-screened, low-risk travelers from Mexico to be processed through dedicated lanes. NEXUS is a similar program on the country's northern border with Canada. Along both borders, CBP has implemented the Free and Secure Trade, which uses transponder technology and pre-arrival shipment information to process participating trucks as they arrive at the border. An agreement with Canada allows CBP to target, screen, and examine rail shipments headed to the U.S.\n\n\nCBP has the authority to search outbound and inbound shipments, and uses targeting to carry out its mission in this area. Under Section 596 of the Tariff Act, CBP is required to seize and forfeit all merchandise that is stolen, smuggled, or clandestinely imported or introduced. CBP is also required to seize and forfeit controlled substances, certain contraband articles, and plastic explosives that do not contain a detection agent. In conjunction with the Department of State and the Bureau of the Census, CBP has put in place regulations that require submission of electronic export information on U.S. Munitions List and for technology for the Commerce Control List. CBP uses advance information from the Automated Targeting System and the Automated Export System to identify cargo that may pose a threat. CBP also works with the Departments of State and Defense to improve procedures on exported shipments of foreign military sales commodities.\n\nMerchandise may also be seized and forfeited if:\n\n\nSection 1592 of the Tariff Act of 1930 is the basic and most widely used customs penalty provision for the importation of goods. It prescribes monetary penalties against any person who imports, attempts to import, or aids or procures the importation of merchandise by means of false or fraudulent documents, statements, omissions or practices, concerning any material fact. Penalties may be applied even in situations where there is no loss of revenue.\n\nSection 1592 infractions are divided into three categories of culpability, each giving rise to a different maximum penalty:\n\nThe Customs Modernization Act amended section 1592 to apply existing penalties for false information to information transmitted electronically and allows Customs to recover unpaid taxes and fees resulting from 592 violations. It also introduced the requirement that importers use \"reasonable care\" in making entry and providing the initial classification and appraisement, establishing a \"shared responsibility\" between Customs and importers, thus allowing Customs to rely on the accuracy of the information submitted and streamline entry procedures. To the extent that an importer fails to use reasonable care, Customs may impose a penalty.\n\nUS Customs Agriculture Specialist Officers are allowed to issue civil penalties in accordance with CFR 7 & 9.\n\nIn addition to the civil penalties, a criminal fraud statute provides for sanctions to those presenting false information to customs officers, with violators facing a maximum of 2 years imprisonment, or a $5,000 fine, or both, for each violation involving an importation or attempted importation.\n\nResponding to an urgent need for revenue following the American Revolutionary War, the First United States Congress passed, and President George Washington signed on July 4, the Tariff of 1789, which authorized the collection of duties on imports. Four weeks later, on July 31, the fifth act of Congress established the United States Customs Service and its ports of entry.\n\nFor nearly 125 years, the U.S. Customs Service was the primary source of governmental funds, which paid for the nation's early growth and infrastructure. Purchases include the Louisiana and Oregon territories; Florida, Alaska, and Washington, D.C.; funding the National Road and the Transcontinental Railroad; building many of the United States' lighthouses; and the U.S. Military and Naval academies.\n\nIn March 2003, the Customs Service was renamed the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, and its structure split to form parts of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security as the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Division.\n\nShortly after the American Civil War, some states started to pass their own immigration laws, which prompted the U.S. Supreme Court to rule in \"Chy Lung v. Freeman\" in 1875 that immigration was a federal responsibility. The Immigration Act of 1891 established an Office of the Superintendent of Immigration within the United States Department of the Treasury. This office was responsible for admitting, rejecting, and processing all immigrants seeking admission to the United States and for implementing national immigration policy. \"Immigrant inspectors\", as they were then called, were stationed at major U.S. ports of entry collecting manifests of arriving passengers. A \"head tax\" of fifty cents was collected on each immigrant.\n\nIn the early 20th century Congress's primary interest in immigration was protecting American workers and wages – the reason it had become a federal concern in the first place. This made immigration more a matter of commerce than revenue; hence, in 1903, Congress transferred the Bureau of Immigration to the newly created Department of Commerce and Labor.\n\nAfter World War I, Congress attempted to stem the flow of immigrants, still mainly coming from Europe, by passing laws in 1921 and 1924 limiting the number of newcomers by assigning a quota to each nationality based upon its representation in previous U.S. census figures. Each year, the U.S. State Department issued a limited number of visas; only those immigrants who had obtained them and could present valid visas were permitted entry.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt moved the Immigration and Naturalization Service from the Department of Labor to the Department of Justice in 1940.\n\nCBP Became an official agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security on March 1, 2003, combining employees from the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (specifically the Plant Protection Quarantine inspectors), the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service (specifically, immigration inspectors and the United States Border Patrol), and the United States Customs Service. This transformation was led by former Commissioner Robert C. Bonner.\n\nW. Ralph Basham was nominated to the post of Commissioner by President George W. Bush on June 6, 2006. Basham had 28 years of experience as a law enforcement manager, including serving as the head of the Secret Service and the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. He had also served as the chief of staff for the Transportation Security Administration. It is the largest federal law enforcement agency that works closely with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Border Patrol joined two units, the Border Patrol Tactical Unit (BORTAC) and the Border Patrol Search, Trauma, and Rescue Unit (BORSTAR), to form the U.S. Border Patrol's Special Operations Group (SOG), headquartered in El Paso, Texas. BORTAC and BORSTAR direct their nationally dispersed assets from the SOG, providing the U.S. Border Patrol with immediate tactical and emergency response assets.\n\nCBP officers are federal law enforcement officers in the largest CBP Office of Field Operations empowered to exercise the authority and perform the duties provided by law and Department of Homeland Security regulations, including making arrests, conducting searches, making seizures, bearing firearms, and serving any order or warrant. CBP officers have full law enforcement powers on and off duty. CBP officers defend against terrorist intrusion by identifying high risk individuals who are attempting to enter into the United States; stop criminal activities – such as drug trafficking, child pornography (including on computers, cell phones, and other electronic media), weapons trafficking, and money laundering – by inspecting vehicles and trucks; and prevent the illegal entry of individuals, the smuggling of prohibited goods, and other customs and immigration violations. Officers are armed with Heckler & Koch P2000 pistols chambered in .40 S&W, expandable batons, x26 Tasers and oleoresin capsicum pepper spray. In accordance with Public Law 110-161, CBP officers are covered under special law enforcement retirement, and all candidates must be referred for selection for this position before reaching their 40th birthday.\n\nOfficer candidates attend the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, in Glynco, Georgia for 17–19 weeks of paid training. Candidate training consists of basic law enforcement skills, including Anti-Terrorism; Detection of Contraband; Interviewing; Cross-cultural Communications; Firearms Handling and Qualification; Immigration and Naturalization Laws; U.S. Customs Export and Import laws, Defensive Tactics and Driving; Crime Investigation Site; Arrest Techniques; Baton Techniques; Examination of cargo, bags, and merchandise; border search exception; Entry and Control Procedures; Passenger Processing; and Officer Safety and Survival. Those candidates selected for duty locations requiring Spanish may receive an additional 6 weeks of Spanish Language training. After a few years of service, qualified Officers may serve on CBP's Special Response Team after passing a pre-test and an additional five weeks of paid training at the U.S. Border Patrol Tactical Unit (BORTAC) in El Paso, Texas.\n\nCBP Officers may begin their careers in any region for which they apply. The duty region is selected during the application phase. Proficiency in Spanish is a duty requirement only for those stationed along southern border regions, although it is not a requirement before being hired. CBP Officers stationed along southern border regions will undergo Spanish language training before coming on duty.\n\nThe CBP Officer position is categorized as a \"critical-sensitive\" position in law enforcement. For this reason, officer candidates must undergo a single scope background investigation (SSBI) before being appointed. In addition, officer candidates must undergo drug and medical examination, polygraph examination, two physical fitness tests, a video based test, and structured interview during the pre-appointment phase.\n\nCBP Agriculture Specialists receive 11 weeks of paid training at the Professional Development Center in Frederick, Maryland as well as a post-academy training phase that varies in length according to their assigned port. Agriculture Specialists are stationed at international ports of entry located at airports, seaports, and land borders throughout the U.S. and along the Canadian and Mexican borders; they are also stationed overseas in various countries authorized by the United States to have the traveling public and agricultural commodities pre-cleared before entering into the United States. They are uniformed federal officers with the authority to conduct random inspections of luggage or items entering the country and the power to seize prohibited or contaminated items. Agricultural Specialists issue civil fines, not to be confused with collecting duty or tax, to both international travelers and commercial entities in accordance with the federal laws CFR 7 & 9; they do not however collect duty taxes. Although Agriculture Specialists work for and are sworn to uphold and enforce the laws governed under the jurisdiction of Customs and Border Protection, they are also tasked with enforcing the laws governed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS). They serve as expert and technical consultants in the areas of inspection, intelligence, analysis, examination and law enforcement activities related to the importation of agricultural and commercial commodities and conveyances at the various ports of entry. Agriculture Specialists apply a wide range of federal, state and local laws and agency regulations, including those of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) when determining the admissibility of agricultural commodities, or commodities in general, while regulating and/or preventing the introduction of restricted or prohibited products, harmful pests, diseases and potential agro-terrorism into the United States. They participate in special enforcement, targeting, and analysis teams charged with collecting and analyzing information and identifying high-risk targets; or conducting visual and physical inspections of cargo, conveyances or passenger baggage. The Agriculture Specialist plans, conducts, and supervises remedial actions such as treating, disinfecting and decontaminating prohibited commodities, conveyances, contaminants or agricultural materials.\n\nThe Agriculture Specialist position is categorized as a \"sensitive\" position in law enforcement and may be granted up to the \"Secret\" level security clearance. Candidates must undergo a single scope background investigation and a polygraph examination before being appointed. In addition, the candidates must undergo a video based interview as well as a drug and medical examination during the pre-appointment phase.\n\nImport Specialists interact with both importers and exporters and are responsible for decisions regarding a staggering variety of merchandise, manufactured goods, and commodities.\n\nImport Specialists work side by side with law enforcement officers and legal professionals. They are responsible for classifying and appraising a portion of the billions of dollars’ worth of commercially imported merchandise that enters the U.S. every year. They determine which products may legally enter the country by enforcing laws protecting public health and safety, intellectual property rights and fair trade practices. They may also play a key role in criminal enforcement team investigations of smuggling, commercial fraud, and counterfeiting.\n\nImport Specialists have the authority to issue penalties and fines, to seize prohibited or suspect cargo and to participate in negotiations and legal prosecution. Occasionally, Import Specialists may be given short-term assignments overseas as part of a multi-agency team. Responsibilities could include investigating foreign manufacturing facilities for violations involving child labor, product safety or other areas of concern to the U.S. Seven weeks of paid specialized training enable Import Specialists to develop an expert knowledge of import and export trends, commodities, and industries, as well as complex international trade agreements. CBP Import Specialists perform their mission at more than 300 ports of entry located at airports, seaports and land borders throughout the United States and along the Canadian and Mexican borders.\n\nThe U.S. Border Patrol Agent (as opposed to Officer) is a federal law enforcement agent actively patrolling a U.S. border to prevent persons from entering or leaving the United States without government permission. Agents detect and prevent the smuggling and unlawful entry of aliens into the United States, along with apprehending those people found to be in violation of immigration laws. Agents work to lower crime and improve the quality of life in border communities. In some areas, Agents are deputized or have peace-officer status and use it to enforce local and state/territory laws. More than 20,000 Border Patrol Agents safeguard nearly 6,000 miles of land border the United States shares with Canada and Mexico, and more than 2,000 miles of coastal waters.\n\nOne of the most important activities for a United States Border Patrol Agent is \"line watch\". This involves the detection, prevention and apprehension of terrorists, illegal aliens and smugglers of both aliens and contraband at or near the land border by maintaining surveillance from a covert position, following up leads, responding to electronic sensor systems, aircraft sightings, and interpreting and following tracks, marks and other physical evidence. Some of the major activities are farm and ranch check, traffic check, traffic observation, city patrol, transportation check, administrative, intelligence, and anti-smuggling activities.\n\nAll agents complete a 13-week paid \"Basic Academy\" training at the U.S. Border Patrol Academy in Artesia, New Mexico. Training includes such topics as immigration and nationality laws, physical training (PT), weapons and marksmanship. For those needing Spanish language instruction, an additional 8 weeks may be required beyond the 65 days of Basic Academy training. Border Patrol Agents must be willing to work overtime and varying shifts under arduous conditions, and be proficient in the carry and use of firearms. They may also be sent on temporary assignments on short notice, or on permanent reassignments to any duty location. All new agents begin their careers along the Southwest border, where a working knowledge of Spanish is required.\n\n\nAMO is the world's largest civilian aviation and maritime law enforcement organization. Its mission is to protect the American people and nation's critical infrastructure through the coordinated use of air and marine assets to detect, interdict and prevent acts of terrorism and the unlawful movement of people, illegal drugs, and other contraband toward or across the borders of the United States. Air and Marine Interdiction Agents are endowed with the authority to enforce Title 8 (Aliens and Nationality) and Title 19 (Customs) of the United States Code in addition to the general law enforcement powers bestowed upon federal law enforcement agents.\n\nThis specialized law enforcement capability allows AMO to make significant contributions to the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security, as well as to those of other federal, state, local, and tribal agencies. AMO is uniquely positioned to provide direct air and maritime support to multiple agencies and to ensure the success of border protection and law enforcement operations between ports of entry, within the maritime domain and within the nation's interior. To accomplish its mission, AMO employs over 1,200 Federal Agents at 70 locations, operating more than 260 aircraft of 26 different types, and approximately 300 maritime vessels. It is one of the major operational components within U.S. Customs and Border Protection, along with the Office of Field Operations (OFO) and the United States Border Patrol (USBP).\n\nIn July 2006, the Office of Personnel Management conducted a survey of federal employees in all 36 federal agencies on job satisfaction and how they felt their respective agency was headed. DHS (which includes CBP) was last or near to last in every category including\n\n\nThe low scores were attributed to major concerns about basic supervision, management and leadership within DHS. Based on the survey, the primary concerns are about promotion and pay increase based on merit, dealing with poor performance, rewarding creativity and innovation, and the inability of leadership to generate high levels of motivation in the workforce, recognition for doing a good job, lack of satisfaction with various component policies and procedures and lack of information about what is going on with the organization and complaints from the traveling public.\n\nIn June 2007, CBP Commissioner W. Ralph Basham announced to employees that the agency would be conducting 125 different focus groups in 12 different cities around the country to better understand their concerns as expressed in the Human Capital Survey. The agency is also going to give employees who are not a part of that focus group process an intranet virtual focus group where they can express their views and their concerns. The commissioner stated: \"We are looking at this very seriously. We want to hear from the employees, we want to hear from these focus groups, we want to drill down on this survey.\" As 2011, more than four years after this statement was made, these focus groups have never been reported to have been held, nor have any plans been reported for them to be held in the future.\n\nA November 2007 Government Accountability Office report showed that low staffing, training, and overwork is a large problem within CBP, and an average of 71 officers leave the service every two weeks.\n\nIn 2011, the United States Congress mandated that applicants to CBP jobs undergo polygraph testing. The agency polygraphs about 10,000 applicants annually. From the start of the polygraphing until August 16, 2013, over 200 confessions of wrongdoing had been made. Many of the applicants confessed that they had close associations with drug traffickers or that they were directly involved in smuggling of drugs and illegal immigrants. The agency accused ten applicants of using countermeasures. As part of the \"Operation Lie Busters\", the name of the crackdown on polygraph countermeasures, all ten were not selected for employment.\n\nCBP Officers primary sidearm is the H&K P2000 double action LEM (Law Enforcement Modification) pistol in .40 S&W caliber. It can contain as many as 13 rounds of ammunition (12 in the magazine and one in the chamber). Like many other law enforcement agencies, the 12 gauge Remington Model 870 is the standard pump-action shotgun. The CBP issue Model 870 has been modified by Scattergun Technologies to CBP specifications including: a 14-inch barrel, a five-shot capacity magazine, a composite stock with pistol grip, and night sights with a tactical \"ghost-ring\" rear sight. CBP uses the .223 caliber Colt M4 Carbine (M4A1) as the standard long gun for CBP Officers assigned to its aviation and maritime interdiction units, the CBP Border Patrol, the CBP Special Response Teams.\n\nNational Public Radio's \"Morning Edition\" reported that CBP radiation-detection equipment at ports is better at detecting kitty litter than dangerous weapons, and that U.S. borders are so porous that congressional investigators carrying simulated nuclear materials have walked across unchallenged.\n\nIn an article entitled \"DHS Decision-Making: Competence or Character?\", James Giermanski states that the fundamental problem within CBP is that the agency has weak and sometimes flawed management. He says that DHS and CBP suffer from \"seriously flawed decision-making\", citing the \"door only\" policy, radio frequency identification technology, and lack of focus on exports which contain bombs.\n\nThe agency's practice of performing internal document checks on buses and trains running entirely within U.S. territory has been called \"coercive, unconstitutional, and tainted by racial profiling\".\n\nThe United States Court of International Trade found that CBP improperly classified merchandise when it had untrained chemists testifying before the court. The court found that there were errors in the laboratory reports, that CBP destroyed the evidence, and the tests used by the chemist did not meet any Daubert standards.\n\nDuring a federal court case for unlawful removal, CBP and United States Department of Justice attorneys cited the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Garcetti v. Ceballos\" (04-473), which ruled that CBP employees do not have protection from retaliation by CBP managers under the First Amendment of the Constitution. The free speech protections of the First Amendment have long been used to shield whistleblowers from retaliation. In response to the Supreme Court decision of \"Garcetti v. Ceballos\", the House of Representatives passed H.R. 985, the Whistleblower Protection Act of 2007, and the Senate passed its version of the Whistleblower Protection Act (S. 274), which has significant bipartisan support.\n\nIn 2005, a merger of ICE and CBP was considered, following a review at the request Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) chairwoman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, that found morale and operational issues with ICE and the overlapping responsibilities within the two agencies.\n\nCanadian author and marine biologist Peter Watts accused customs officers of assaulting him and throwing him in jail for the night of December 1, 2009 when he was returning to Toronto from the U.S. Watts was tried before a jury and was found guilty of obstructing a federal officer. In April 2010 he was given a suspended sentence, and a fine. However, due to immigration laws, Watts' felony conviction prevents him from re-entering the United States.\n\nA 2018 report by the ACLU and University of Chicago Law School's International Human Rights Clinic alleged that there was pervasive physical, verbal, sexual and psychological abuse of immigrant minors by DHS and CBP officials over the period 2009-2014. Customs and Border Protection denied the allegations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8686636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8686636", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 18", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 18\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 18, adopted on February 13, 1947, created a Commission to try to give effect to United Nations General Assembly Resolution 41 which stated that regulation and reduction in world armaments and armed forces is an important measure for strengthening international peace. \n\nThe resolution was adopted 10 votes to none, with one abstention from the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53273497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53273497", "title": "United and Cecil Club", "text": "United and Cecil Club\n\nThe United and Cecil Club (U&C) is a British dining club with close links to the Conservative Party. Formed in 1949 following the merger of the United Club and the Cecil Club, the club is the seventh-largest donor to the Conservatives, and focuses its donations on marginal seats. Club members have been accused of taking advantage of a loophole in political fundraising laws to donate large sums to the Conservatives without declaring them.\n\nThe two forerunners to the U&C were both formed in the 1880s following the death of the unifying figure Benjamin Disraeli. The Constituencies Union, which later became the United Club, was formed in 1881 to raise funds for Conservatives in difficult constituencies, while the National Review and Cecil Club was formed in 1882 by supporters of the Prime Minister Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury to publish the journal \"National Review\". These served as bastions of conservatism during the National Government eras, but following the Second World War were merged by Winston Churchill, who served as president of both.\n\nThe membership of the club is private. However, in response to a question from the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards in 2007, the club declared that it had around 400 members, who each paid membership fees of £100 annually. The club meets once a month while Parliament is in session for a total of eight dinners a year, and four of those dinners take place in the private banquet halls at the House of Commons. Dinners include a speech from a senior Conservative politician, and speakers have included John Major and David Cameron.\n\nThese dinners were subject to a complaint in 2006 from Labour MPs John Mann and Kevan Jones, who alleged that they constituted the illegal use of House of Commons facilities for party fundraising. An investigation by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards found that the meals at the Commons were charged at cost, and that the club's fundraising activities were restricted to events outside Parliament.\n\nThe club's official headquarters are registered by the Electoral Commission at a stables in Iver, Buckinghamshire, but in the parliamentary register at a riding school in Berkshire.\n\nAn investigation by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism in the run-up to the United Kingdom general election, 2015 found that the U&C was the biggest donor to Conservative candidates in the ten most marginal seats in the country. Between 2010 and 2014, its largest donations were in the marginal seats of Weaver Vale, Bury North, Carlisle and Cheadle, all of which were won or held by the Conservatives at the 2015 election. The club also raised funds for the Scottish Conservative Party during campaigning for the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.\n\nIn total, the club gave £712,230.63 to the Conservatives during the 2010–2015 Parliament, making them the seventh-largest donor to the party.\n\nUnder Electoral Commission rules, all donations of over £1,500 to a local party need to be publicly declared. However, donations to members' associations – groups like the U&C whose memberships are primarily or exclusively members of a single party – only need to be declared above £7,500, even these donations are subsequently directed to local parties. The Alliance for Lobbying Transparency criticized this as deliberate exploitation of a loophole allowing donors to make large donations to the Conservatives – and, through the dinners, meet with senior Conservative politicians – while remaining anonymous.\n\n"}
{"id": "1524123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524123", "title": "Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps", "text": "Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps\n\nThe Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, known as XPCC or Bingtuan for short, is a unique economic and paramilitary organization in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of China. The XPCC has administrative authority over several medium-sized cities as well as settlements and farms in Xinjiang. It has its own administrative structure, fulfilling governmental functions such as healthcare and education for areas under its jurisdiction. The Government of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region directly administers all these cities (as opposed to subordinating them to any prefectures). The Autunomous Region Government in Urumuqi does not usually interfere in the day-to-day administration of these areas .\n\nThe XPCC was founded by Wang Zhen in 1954 under the orders of Mao Zedong. The stated goals of the XPCC are to develop frontier regions, promote economic development, ensure social stability and ethnic harmony, and consolidate border defense. In its 50-year history, the XPCC has built farms, towns, and cities, and provided land and work for disbanded military units. The XPCC also participates in economic activities, and is known as the China Xinjian Group (). It has a number of publicly traded subsidiaries.\n\nThe XPCC draws from the traditional Chinese \"tuntian\" system, a policy of settling military units in frontier areas so that they become self-sufficient in food, and similar policies in the Tang and Qing dynasties. Construction corps were set up for several sparsely populated frontier regions, including Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia, and Xinjiang. The newly founded People's Republic of China also had the problem of what to do with many former non-Communist soldiers who had been removed from economic production for many years. Ideas about settling such soldiers on the land had been common in China for many years. The Chinese government formed the XPCC from soldiers from the (Communist) First Field Army, former Kuomintang soldiers and soldiers from the local Ili National Army. The XPCC itself was founded in October 1954, comprising 175,000 military personnel based in Xinjiang, led by Tao Zhiyue as its first commander-in-chief.\n\nThe XPCC was initially focused on settling, cultivating, and developing sparsely populated areas, such as the fringes of the Taklimakan Desert and Gurbantunggut Desert, under the principle of \"not competing for benefits with the local people\". It also served as a reserve force for the military in Xinjiang, although they were not called upon, since relations with the Soviet Union were good in the early years of the People's Republic. The ranks of the XPCC were also joined by many youth, both male and female, from other parts of China, to balance out its sex ratio and include members with better education backgrounds. In 1962, after the Sino-Soviet split, rioting occurred in Yining and 60,000 ethnic minorities living across the border fled to the Soviet Union. The Chinese government feared that the Soviet Union was trying to destabilize China and start a war. The XPCC was ordered to cultivate the farms of those who fled. By 1966 the XPCC had a population of 1.48 million.\n\nThe XPCC, together with many other governmental and party organizations, was severely damaged by the chaos of the Cultural Revolution. In 1975 it was abolished completely, with all of its powers transferred to the government of Xinjiang and regional authorities.\n\nAfter the Soviet Union invaded neighbouring Afghanistan in 1979, and the Islamic mujahid movement gained force, fears of Soviet encirclement and Islamic fundamentalism lead to the re-establishment of the XPCC in 1981 as well as the cultivation of frontier lands and economic development.\n\nThe XPCC is administered by both the central government of the China as well as the government of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. It has sub-provincial powers on par with sub-provincial cities. The Party Secretary of Xinjiang serves as the \"executive political commissar\" of the XPCC, while the XPCC's own party chief usually concurrently serves as the political commissar of the XPCC and acts as its highest day-to-day authority. The area and population of the XPCC are generally given as part of Xinjiang's total figures, but the GDP of the XPCC is generally listed separately.\n\nThe XPCC is subdivided into divisions, then regiments. It is headquartered at Urumqi. Each XPCC division corresponds to a prefecture-level administrative division of Xinjiang, and are in themselves sub-prefectural in rank.\n\nThe XPCC itself, as well as each individual division, is headed by three leaders: a first political commissar, a political commissar, and a commander. The Party Committee Secretary of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region is the first political commissar of XPCC \"ex officio\" and the first political commissars of each XPCC division is likewise the committee secretary in each of the corresponding prefecture-level divisions.\n\nIn addition to regiments, the XPCC also administers regiment-level farms and ranches.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, the military role of the XPCC has been diluted, being given instead to the Xinjiang Military District, a part of the current Western Theater Command that includes all of western China. At present, the military personnel of the XPCC are mostly reservists or militia.\n\nThe XPCC consists of 14 divisions which are then subdivided into 185 regiment-level entities (including regiments, farms, and ranches), scattered throughout Xinjiang, mostly in previously unpopulated or sparsely populated areas.\n\nThe divisions are:\nIn May 1953, the PLA's 25th, 26th and 27th Divisions from the 9th Corps were reorganized as 7th, 8th and 9th Agriculture Construction Division of the XPCC, respectively.\n\nThe XPCC has built ten medium-sized cities during its history, and now controls nine of them. The governments of these cities are with the division that controls them. For example, the division headquarters is the same entity as the city government, the division political commissar the same person as the city committee secretary, the division commander the same person as the city's mayor, and so forth. Nine XPCC-administered cities are nominally listed as \"sub-prefectural-level cities\" of Xinjiang Uyghur Administrative Region, but the government of Xinjiang is usually not involved in the administration of these cities.\n\n37 ethnic groups are represented in the XPCC, the largest of which are the Han, Uyghur, Kazakhs, Hui, and Mongol. Muslims, numbered at 250,000, are the largest religious group represented, while there exist smaller populations of Buddhists, Protestants, and Catholics. While the Han have been the largest group of XPCC workers, their relative numbers have seen a decline: from 1980 to 1993 the overall membership of the XPCC remained constant, while Han membership declined from 90% to 88%. About 13% (2002) of the population of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region are connected to the XPCC.\n\nThe Eighth Division is the most populous division, with a population of 579,300 (2002).\n\nThe XPCC is currently focused on economic development as its stated primary goal. With the continued opening up of the economy, the XPCC has created many publicly traded subsidiary companies involved in the production and sale of a variety of products. When involved in such economic activities, the XPCC uses the name \"China Xinjian Group\".\n\nThe primary economic activity of the XPCC remains agriculture, including cotton, fruit, vegetables, food crops, vegetable oils, sugar beets, and so forth. Important products are cotton, tomatoes, ketchup, Korla pears, Turpan grapes, wine, and so forth. The XPCC has a mix of factory farming and smaller farms.\n\nDuring its history, XPCC established a large amount of mining and mining-related industries, most of which have subsequently been handed over to the Xinjiang government. Currently the XPCC is primarily engaged in food- and agriculture-related industries.\n\nThe XPCC is also involved in a variety of tertiary industries, including trade, distribution, real estate, tourism, construction, even insurance.\n\nCurrently the XPCC has eleven publicly traded subsidiaries. They are:\n\nThe XPCC has its own separate education system covering primary, secondary, and tertiary education. It currently has two universities:\n\nThe XPCC has its own official daily newspaper, the \"Bingtuan Daily\", as well as TV stations at both the XPCC and division levels.\n\n"}
