{"id": "55864836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55864836", "title": "1 Rockefeller Plaza", "text": "1 Rockefeller Plaza\n\n1 Rockefeller Plaza (formerly the Time & Life Building and the General Dynamics Building) is a 36-story building located on the east side of Rockefeller Plaza between 48th and 49th Streets in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Completed in 1937, the tower is part of Rockefeller Center, which was built in the Art Deco style. \n\nRockefeller Center occupies three blocks in Midtown Manhattan bounded by Fifth and Sixth Avenues to the east and west, between 48th Street to the south and 51st Street to the north. By 1936, most of the complex had been completed. Rockefeller Center Inc. only needed to develop three empty plots in the middle of the complex's northern and southern blocks. The site of 1 Rockefeller Plaza, located on the southern block, was being used as a parking lot, and at the time, it was the city's largest parking facility.\n\nIn 1936, Time Inc. expressed interest in moving out of their Chrysler Building offices into a larger headquarters, having just launched their \"Life\" magazine. Rockefeller Center's managers persuaded Time to move to a proposed skyscraper on part of the southern empty lot, located on Rockefeller Plaza between 48th and 49th Streets, by promising the company seven floors and a penthouse; space to expand; a 20-year lease; and the right to name the building after themselves. Excavation for a new building at 1 Rockefeller Plaza, numbered 9 Rockefeller Plaza at the time, started in June 1936. The original plans stipulated a 32-story building, but the height was increased to 36 stories with the use of setbacks on the 48th Street elevation. The number of setbacks was minimized, which increased rentable space within the building, and the original blueprints for the plot were retained for the Time & Life Building. The steelwork for that building was laid on September 25, 1936, and was complete by November 28, forty-three working days later. The Time & Life Building, as it was known, opened on April 1, 1937, along with the final block of Rockefeller Plaza abutting the building, between 48th and 49th Streets. \"Time\" moved into the building in 1938. Time Inc's lease stipulated that nothing else could be constructed within of the Time & Life Building's uppermost floors.\n\nThe original tenants included the Girl Scouts of the USA and Museum of Modern Art, but Time Inc. itself did not move into the building for another year after its completion. In 1960, the building was renamed for General Dynamics after Time Inc. had moved into 1271 Avenue of the Americas, the new Time-Life Building located three blocks away. The tower was renamed for its street address after General Dynamics moved to St. Louis in 1971.\n\nThe 36-story tower at 1 Rockefeller Plaza, on the east side of the plaza between 48th and 49th Streets, is the original Time–Life Building. The tower contains a 10th-floor setback on the 48th Street side, while its 49th Street side is actually set back from the street, rising as a slab. The Rockefeller Plaza side is almost a slab except for the 10th-story setback, and the eastern side connects to 600 Fifth Avenue via a seven-story annex. Its north-south axis aligns with the since-modified alignment of the International Building. One Rockefeller's artwork was designed for a generic tenant, with a general life theme.\n\nThe artwork included Lawrie's bas-relief of Pegasus, robed figure, and eagle above the entrance, signifying human progress. In addition, Attilio Piccirilli's \"Joy of Life\" limestone relief, depicts a hedonistic Dionysus enjoying wine. The entrance portal is decorated with C. Paul Jennewein's limestone carvings of industry and agriculture. Carl Milles created a three-part wood-and-silver sculpture near the top of the lobby's western wall. It is called \"Människan och Naturen” or \"Man and Nature\" and was created from 1938 to 1941. The right-hand carving depicts a wooden faun pushing nature away, while the left-side carving consists of a wooden nymph in the foliage, and the central carving depicts a wooden man on horseback listening to a metal Mexican nightingale that every hour on the opens its beak and sings a recording of a Mexican Nightingale from the Bronx Zoo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211367", "title": "Ahmed Chalabi", "text": "Ahmed Chalabi\n\nAhmed Abdel Hadi Chalabi (; 30 October 1944 – 3 November 2015) was an Iraqi politician, a founder of the Iraqi National Congress (INC) and the President of the Governing Council of Iraq (37th Prime Minister of Iraq)\n\nHe was interim Minister of Oil in Iraq in April–May 2005 and December 2005 – January 2006 and Deputy Prime Minister from May 2005 to May 2006. Chalabi failed to win a seat in parliament in the December 2005 elections, and when the new Iraqi cabinet was announced in May 2006, he was not given a post. Once dubbed the \"George Washington of Iraq\" by American supporters, he later fell out of favor and came under investigation by several U.S. government sources.\n\nIn the lead-up to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the Iraqi National Congress (INC), with the assistance of lobbying powerhouse BKSH & Associates, provided a major portion of the information on which U.S. Intelligence based its condemnation of the Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, including reports of weapons of mass destruction and alleged ties to al-Qaeda. Most, if not all, of this information has turned out to be false and Chalabi has been called a fabricator. Along with this, Chalabi also subsequently boasted, in an interview with the British \"Sunday Telegraph\", about the impact that their alleged falsifications had on American policy, — these factors led to a falling out between him and the U.S. government. Furthermore, Chalabi was found guilty in the Petra Bank scandal in Jordan.\n\nIn January 2012, a French intelligence official stated that he believed Chalabi to be \"acting on behalf of Iran\".\n\nChalabi was the son of a prominent Shi'a family, one of the wealthy power elite of Baghdad. He was born at Kadhimiya in 1944. His family, who dated back 300 years to the Sultanate ran Iraq’s oldest commercial bank under the British-backed Kingdom of Iraq. His father was a wealthy grain merchant and member of the Iraqi parliament, became head of the senate when King Abdullah was assassinated.\n\nHis family retired from public life to a farmhouse near Baghdad when the military seized power. Chalabi left Iraq with his family in 1958, following the 14 July Revolution, and spent most of his life in the United States and the United Kingdom. He was educated at Baghdad College and Seaford College in Sussex, England before leaving for America.\n\nIn exile, following the Ba'ath party takeover, his family acted as the Iraqi Shia clergy’s bankers. In the mid-1960s, he studied with cryptographer Whitfield Diffie at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from which he received a bachelor of science degree in mathematics. In 1969, he earned a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Chicago under the direction of George Glauberman on the Theory of Knots. after which he took a position in the mathematics department at the American University of Beirut. He published three mathematics papers between 1973 and 1980, in the field of abstract algebra.\n\nIn 1971, Chalabi married Leila Osseiran, daughter of Lebanese politician Adil Osseiran. They had four children. Whilst still at Beirut the civil war broke out in 1975, so he moved to Jordan and found work as an interpreter.\n\nChalabi was a bold and shrewd investor, amassing a fortune of $100 million. During his life he was accused of corruption many times. In 1977, he founded the Petra Bank in Jordan with Crown Prince Hassan, the King's brother. In May 1989, the Governor of the Central Bank of Jordan, Mohammed Said Nabulsi, issued a decree ordering all banks in the country to deposit 35% of their reserves with the Central Bank. Petra Bank was the only bank that was unable to meet this requirement. An investigation was launched which led to accusations of embezzlement and false accounting. The bank failed, causing a $350 million bail-out by the Central Bank. Chalabi fled the country, in the boot of a Jordanian prince's car, before the authorities could react. Chalabi was convicted and sentenced \"in absentia\" for bank fraud by a Jordanian military tribunal to 22 years in prison. Chalabi maintained that his prosecution was a politically motivated effort to discredit him sponsored by Saddam Hussein.\n\nLiving abroad by 1992 in London, and unable to return home for fear of his life, he set up the Iraqi National Congress with an agenda of regime change for his homeland. The organization was open to all ethnic Iraqis - Kurds and Arabs - as well as Sunnis and Shias. Already a fluent English speaker, he turned his attention to Washington DC.\n\nIn 1995 after preparation and lobbying he persuaded President Clinton to fund an expedition into northern Iraq to use subterfuge to start an insurgency. Chalabi was convinced that the Iraqi military would rise up to overthrow the dictator. The commanders to whom he had spoken, were the same who openly supported Saddam and crushed his opponents in the Kurdish and Shi'ite revolts. The insurgency failed, lacking the promised ground troops, and 100 insurgents were killed by the military. The command structure of INC fell apart with factional infighting. Chalabi was banned from those frequent visits to CIA HQ at Langley, Virginia. Nonetheless Chalabi was doggedly determined: in 1998 Congress passed the Iraqi Liberation Act making it American law that \"regime change\" would happen in Iraq.\n\nIt was reported by BBC News in May 2005 that the Jordanian government was considering whether to pardon Chalabi, in part to ease the relations between Jordan and the new Iraqi government of which Chalabi was a member. According to one report, Chalabi proposed a $32 million compensation fund for depositers affected by Petra Bank's failure. The website for Petra Bank contains a press release stating that Chalabi would refuse the pardon. Although Chalabi always maintained the case was a plot to frame him by Baghdad, the issue was revisited when the U.S. State Department raised questions about the accounting practices of the Iraqi National Congress (INC). According to \"The New York Times\", \"Chalabi insisted on a public apology, which the Jordanians refused to give.\"\n\nChalabi headed the executive council of the INC, an umbrella Iraqi opposition group created in 1992 for the purpose of fomenting the overthrow of Saddam Hussein. The INC received major funding and assistance from the United States. Chalabi was involved in organizing a resistance movement among Kurds in northern Iraq in the early mid-1990s. When that effort was crushed and hundreds of his supporters were killed, Chalabi fled the country. Chalabi lobbied in Washington for the passage of the Iraq Liberation Act (passed October 1998). This earmarked US$97 million to support Iraqi opposition groups. But in 2001 it was revealed that INC was accused of false accounting and irregularities. During the period from March 2000 to September 2003, the U.S. State Department paid nearly $33 million to the INC, according to a General Accounting Office report released in 2004,some of which was used to purchase office artefacts.\n\nBefore the Iraq War (2003), Chalabi enjoyed close political and business relationships with some members of the U.S. government, including some prominent neoconservatives within the Pentagon. Chalabi was said to have had political contacts within the Project for the New American Century, most notably with Paul Wolfowitz, a student of nuclear strategist Albert Wohlstetter, and Richard Perle. He also enjoyed considerable support among politicians and political pundits in the United States, most notably Jim Hoagland of \"The Washington Post\", who held him up as a notable force for democracy in Iraq. He was a special guest of First Lady Laura Bush at the 2004 State of the Union Address.\n\nThe CIA was largely skeptical of Chalabi and the INC, but information allegedly from his group (most famously from a defector codenamed \"Curveball\") made its way into intelligence dossiers used by President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair to justify an invasion of Iraq. \"Curveball\", Rafid Ahmed Alwan al-Janabi, fed officials hundreds of pages of bogus \"firsthand\" descriptions of mobile biological weapons factories on wheels and rails. Secretary of State Colin Powell later used this information in a U.N. presentation trying to garner support for the war, despite warnings from German intelligence that \"Curveball\" was fabricating claims. Since then, the CIA has admitted that the defector made up the story, and Powell said in 2011 the information should not have been used in his presentation. A later congressionally appointed investigation (Robb-Silberman) concluded that Curveball had no relation whatsoever to the INC, and that press reports linking Curveball to the INC were erroneous.\n\nThe INC often worked with the media, most notably with Judith Miller, concerning her WMD stories for \"The New York Times\" starting on 26 February 1998. After the war, given the lack of discovery of WMDs, most of the WMD claims of the INC were shown to have been either misleading, exaggerated, or completely made up while INC information about the whereabouts of Saddam Hussein's loyalists and Chalabi's personal enemies were accurate. Another of Chalabi's advocates was American Enterprise Institute's Iraq specialist Danielle Pletka. Chalabi received advice on media and television presentation techniques from the Irish scriptwriter and commentator Eoghan Harris prior to the invasion of Iraq.\n\nIn April as U.S. forces took control during the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, Chalabi entered with allied troops the southern town of Shatrah. 300 US-trained FIF (Freedom for Iraq Fighters) expected opposition, but none emerged. Thousands of Iraqis cheered the troops. Chalabi returned under their aegis and was given a position on the Iraq interim governing council by the Coalition Provisional Authority. He served as president of the council in September 2003. He denounced a plan to let the UN choose an interim government for Iraq. \"We are grateful to President Bush for liberating Iraq, but it is time for the Iraqi people to run their affairs,\" he was quoted as saying in \"The New York Times\".\n\nIn August 2003, Chalabi was the only candidate whose unfavorable ratings exceeded his favorable ones with Iraqis in a State Department poll. In a survey of nearly 3,000 Iraqis in February 2004 (by Oxford Research International, sponsored by the BBC in the United Kingdom, ABC in the U.S., ARD of Germany, and the NHK in Japan), only 0.2 percent of respondents said he was the most trustworthy leader in Iraq (see survey link below, question #13). A secret document written in 2002 by the British Overseas and Defence Secretariat reportedly described Chalabi as \"a convicted fraudster popular on Capitol Hill.\"\n\nIn response to the WMD controversy, Chalabi told London's \"Daily Telegraph\" in February 2004, We are heroes in error. As far as we're concerned, we've been entirely successful. That tyrant Saddam is gone and the Americans are in Baghdad. What was said before is not important. The Bush administration is looking for a scapegoat.\n\nAs Chalabi's position of trust with the Pentagon crumbled, he found a new political position as a champion of Iraq's Shi'ites (Chalabi himself was a Shi'ite). Beginning 25 January 2004, Chalabi and his close associates promoted the claim that leaders around the world were illegally profiting from the Oil for Food program. These charges were around the same time that UN envoy Lakhdar Brahimi indicated that Chalabi would likely not be welcome in a future Iraqi government. Up until this time, Chalabi had been mentioned formally several times in connection with possible future leadership positions. Chalabi contended that documents in his possession detailed the misconduct, but he did not provide any documents or other evidence. The U.S. sharply criticized Chalabi's Oil for Food investigation as undermining the credibility of its own.\n\nAdditionally, Chalabi and other members of the INC were investigated for fraud involving the exchange of Iraqi currency, grand theft of both national and private assets, and many other criminal charges in Iraq. On 19 May 2004 the U.S. government discontinued their regular payments to Chalabi for information he provided. Iraqi police, supported by U.S. soldiers, raided his offices and residence on 20 May, taking documents and computers, presumably to be used as evidence. A major target of the raid was Aras Habib, Chalabi's long-term director of intelligence, who controlled the vast network of agents bankrolled by U.S. funding. The U.S. announced that they had stopped funding the INC, having previously paid the organization $330,000 per month.\n\nIn June 2004, it was reported that Chalabi gave U.S. state secrets to Iran in April, including the fact that one of the United States' most valuable sources of Iranian intelligence was a broken Iranian code used by their spy services. Chalabi allegedly learned of the code through a drunk American involved in the code-breaking operation. Chalabi denied all of the charges, which nothing ever came of.\n\nAn arrest warrant for alleged counterfeiting was issued for Chalabi on 8 August 2004, while at the same time a warrant was issued on murder charges against his nephew Salem Chalabi (at the time, head of the Iraqi Special Tribunal), while they both were out of the country. Chalabi returned to Iraq on 10 August planning to make himself available to Iraqi government officials, but he was never arrested. Charges were later dropped against Chalabi, with Judge Zuhair al-Maliki citing lack of evidence.\n\nOn 1 September 2004, Chalabi told reporters of an assassination attempt made on him near Latifiya, a town south of Baghdad. Chalabi reported he was returning from a meeting with Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani (whose trust Chalabi enjoyed) in Najaf, where a few days earlier a cease-fire had taken effect, ending three weeks of confrontations between followers of Muqtada al-Sadr and the U.S. military, at the time.\n\nHe regained enough credibility to be made deputy prime minister on 28 April 2005. At the same time he was made acting oil minister, before the appointment of Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum in May 2005. On protesting IMF austerity measures, Al-Uloum was instructed to extend his vacation by a month in December 2005 by Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari, and Chalabi was reappointed as acting oil minister. Al-Uloum returned to the post in January 2006.\n\nIn November 2005, Chalabi traveled to the U.S. and met with top U.S. government officials, including Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley. At this time Chalabi also traveled to Iran to meet with Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.\n\nThe Iraqi National Congress, headed by Chalabi, was a part of the United Iraqi Alliance in the 2005 legislative election. After the election, Chalabi claimed that he had the support of the majority of elected members of United Iraqi Alliance and staked claim to be the first democratically elected Prime Minister of Iraq; however, Ibrahim al-Jaafari later emerged as the consensus candidate for prime minister.\n\nPrior to the December 2005 elections, the Iraqi National Congress had left the United Iraqi Alliance and formed the National Congress Coalition, which ran in the elections but failed to win a single seat in Parliament, gaining less than 0.5% of the vote. Other groups joining the INC in this list included: Democratic Iraqi Grouping, Democratic Joint Action Front, First Democratic National Party, Independent List, Iraqi Constitutional Movement, Iraqi Constitutional Party, Tariq Abd al-Karim Al Shahd al-Budairi, and the Turkoman Decision Party. He was refused a seat in the cabinet. Dogged by allegations, still unproven, of corruption he retorted that he had never \"participated in any scheme of intelligence against the United States.\"\n\nChalabi attended the 2006 Bilderberg Conference meeting outside of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. In October 2007, Chalabi was appointed by Prime Minister Nouri al Maliki to head the Iraqi services committee, a consortium of eight service ministries and two Baghdad municipal posts tasked with the \"surge\" plan's next phase, restoring electricity, health, education and local security services to Baghdad neighborhoods. \"The key is going to be getting the concerned local citizens—and all the citizens—feeling that this government is reconnected with them... [Chalabi] agrees with that,\" said Gen. David Petraeus. Chalabi \"is an important part of the process,\" said Col. Steven Boylan, Petraeus' spokesman. \"He has a lot of energy.\" In April 2008, journalist Melik Kaylan wrote about Chalabi, \"Arguably, he has, more than anyone in the country, evolved a detailed sense of what ails Baghdadis and how to fix things.\"\n\nAfter the invasion Chalabi was placed in charge of \"de-Ba'athification\"—the removal of senior office holders judged to have been close supporters of the deposed Saddam Hussein. The role fell into disuse, but in early 2010 Chalabi was accused of reviving this dormant post to eliminate his political enemies, especially Sunnis. The banning of some 500 candidates prior to the general election of 7 March 2010 at the initiative of Chalabi and his Iraqi National Congress was reported to have badly damaged previously improving relations between Shias and Sunnis.\n\nOn 26 January 2012, \"The New York Times\" reported Western intelligence officials expressing concern that Chalabi was working with the leading opposition group in Bahrain, Al Wefaq National Islamic Society. A French intelligence official said, \"When we hear that some members of the opposition are in touch with Hezbollah or with shady figures like the Iraqi Ahmed Chalabi, of whom we think he is acting on behalf of Iran, then this worries us\". The connection between Chalabi and Al Wefaq was acknowledged by Jawad Fairooz, secretary general of Wefaq and a former member of Parliament in Bahrain. Fairooz said, \"Mr Chalabi has helped us with contacts in Washington like other people have done and we thank them.\"\n\nDuring an interview in 2014, he was shown to be frail and depressed about his country's future:\nIraq is a mess. Daesh is organised, with one command, united and well run, and we are so fragmented. We have no discipline, no command structure, no effective plans.\n\nChalabi died on 3 November 2015, four days after his 71st birthday, having apparently suffered a heart attack at his home in Kadhimiya, Baghdad. When he died, he was a current Member of the Iraqi Parliament, serving as the chairman of the Finance Committee.\n"}
{"id": "8055429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8055429", "title": "Air Travel Organisers' Licensing", "text": "Air Travel Organisers' Licensing\n\nAir Travel Organisers' Licensing (ATOL) is a United Kingdom Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) scheme to give financial protection to people who have purchased package holidays and flights from a member tour operator.\n\nThe majority of UK tour operators are required to hold an ATOL licence, without which they may not legally sell air travel. ATOL-licensed firms will have had their business practices inspected by the CAA. An ATOL licensed tour operator must also obtain insurance bonds from the CAA. The aim of this is to provide refunds to travellers affected by any event which causes the airline to be unable to provide travel for its customers, and to arrange for flights (in addition to accommodation and other items which may be included in a package holiday) to return home those already abroad at the time.\n\nIn the 1960s, voluntary organisations such as the Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) provided a degree of financial protection for air travellers. In 1970, the Federation of Tour Operators (FTO) (then the Tour Operators Study Group) introduced a bonding scheme whereby their members had to obtain bonds to the value of 5% of their annual turnover. In 1972, ABTA followed suit.\n\nThe Civil Aviation Act 1971 established the CAA. Covered under this act was the creation of the original ATOL Regulations. These mandated that all tour operators whose primary mode of transport was by air (but not airlines themselves), must hold an ATOL licence. These regulations came into effect in 1973.\n\nOn 15 August 1974, the Court Line group collapsed. It was the second largest tour operator at the time and its subsidiaries included Clarksons Holidays, Horizon and Medvillas. Clarksons Holidays held an ATOL licence and was therefore theoretically covered by its insurance bond. \n\nAlthough the 35,000 customers stranded abroad were successfully repatriated under the scheme, there were insufficient funds for the 100,000 people whose holidays had been paid for in advance. This was a blow to consumer confidence and led to considerable media attention. A government fund called the Air Travel Trust has since been introduced to pay for any excess which is not covered by ATOL.\n\n"}
{"id": "44453867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44453867", "title": "Bhimji Depar Shah", "text": "Bhimji Depar Shah\n\nBhimji Depar Shah, is a Kenyan businessman, industrialist and entrepreneur. He is the founder and current Chairman of BIDCO Group of Companies, a Kenya-based, family-owned manufacturing conglomerate with businesses in 13 African countries. He is listed as one of the wealthiest people in Kenya, with an estimated net worth of approximately US$700 million in November 2014.\n\nHe was born in Mombasa, Kenya in 1931. He settled in Nyeri, opening up a petrol station in the town. In 1970, he started Bidco Industries Limited, a garments manufacturing business. In 1985, the company switched to soap production. In 1991, Bidco opened up an edible oil manufacturing plant in Thika, and moved its International headquarters into the town, northeast of Nairobi, Kenya's capital. As of November 2014, the industrial conglomerate is a leading manufacturer of soaps, detergents, and baking powder, with annual gross revenue in excess of US$500 million. Bhimji's son Vimal Shah serves as the company's Chief Executive Officer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54613047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54613047", "title": "Business Environment Council", "text": "Business Environment Council\n\nBusiness Environment Council (BEC) (Chinese: 商界環保協會) is a charitable non-profit-making organization established by the Hong Kong business sector to promote environmental sustainability in Hong Kong. BEC has four types of membership, including Council Member, Corporate Member, General Member and Affiliate Member, and most of them are listed companies in Hong Kong. Its current chairman is Mr Richard Lancaster, the CEO of CLP Group. The Headquarters of BEC is located at 77 Tat Chee Ave, Kowloon Tong, The Jockey Club Environmental Building. It is the first commercial building in Hong Kong which has achieved the Platinum rating of Provisional Assessment under the BEAM Plus Existing Buildings of the Hong Kong Green Building Council.\n\nOur core focuses and services are interconnected and cross-sector focused. Our core offering encompasses baseline assessment, advisory, research and policy advocacy via our diversified member-driven committees, training, conferences, leadership engagements, case studies, award and industry support programmes. The common goal of all these is to attain the greatest possible chance at achieving environmental excellence and sustainability across business and industry as a whole.\n\nStaged twice a year, EnviroSeries Conference is BEC’s flagship event that aims to provide a cross-sector forum for stakeholders to discuss and address key issues related to Hong Kong’s environmental sustainability. \n\nThe programme is organised by BEC and funded by the Sustainable Development Fund, aiming to promote sustainable consumption and drive behavioural changes in Hong Kong.\n\nBEC has four types of membership: Council Member, Corporate Member, General Member and Affiliate Member, and which mainly come from leading listed, multinational or holding companies, large private or government-mandated corporations.\n\n\n\nChairman\nDeputy Chairman\nImmediate Past Chairman\nBoard Directors\n\nChief Executive Officer\n"}
{"id": "52245965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52245965", "title": "Business career of Donald Trump", "text": "Business career of Donald Trump\n\nDonald Trump is an American businessman, former television personality, and the 45th President of the United States. He began his real estate career at his father's company, Elizabeth Trump and Son, which he later renamed The Trump Organization. He rose to public prominence after concluding a number of successful real estate deals in Manhattan and New York City, and his company now owns and develops lodging and golf courses around the world. Trump partly or completely owned several beauty pageants between 1996 and 2015. He has marketed his name to many building projects and commercial products. Trump's unsuccessful business ventures have included several casino and hotel bankruptcies, the folding of his New Jersey Generals football team, and the now-defunct Trump University.\n\nAfter being inaugurated as U.S. President in January 2017, Trump resigned all management roles within The Trump Organization, and delegated company management to his sons Donald Jr. and Eric, in response to concerns about conflicts of interest. Trump retained his financial stake in the business.\n\nWhile in college, Trump began his real estate career at his father's company, Elizabeth Trump and Son, which focused on middle-class rental housing in the New York City boroughs of Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island. One of Trump's first projects was the revitalization of the foreclosed Swifton Village apartment complex in Cincinnati, Ohio, which his father, Fred Trump, had purchased for $5.7 million in 1962, equivalent to $46 million in 2017. Fred and Donald Trump became involved in the project, and with a $500,000 investment, turned the 1,200-unit complex's occupancy rate from 66% to 100%. Trump has said that when he graduated from college in 1968, he was worth about $200,000 (). In 1972, the Trump Organization sold Swifton Village for $6.75 million. At age 23, he made an unsuccessful commercial foray into show business, investing $70,000 to become co-producer of the 1970 Broadway comedy \"Paris Is Out!\"\nHe was made the president of the company in 1971 and, in one of his first acts, renamed the company The Trump Organization. In that year, he also moved to Manhattan, where he took part in larger construction projects and used attractive architectural design to win public recognition. In 1973 the Justice Department alleged that the Trumps discriminated against prospective black tenants, rather than just screening out low-income applicants as they said. The Department of Justice said that black \"testers\" were sent to more than half a dozen buildings and were denied apartments, but a similar white tester would then be offered an apartment in the same building. Ultimately the Trumps' company and federal officials signed an agreement under which the Trumps made no admission of wrongdoing, and under which qualified minority applicants would be presented by the Urban League.\n\nBy 1973, Trump as president of the Trump Organization oversaw 14,000 apartments across Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island. In 1978, the city selected his site on the West Side of Manhattan as the location for its Jacob Javits Convention Center, after finding that he was the only bidder who had a site ready for the project. He received a broker's fee on the property sale.\n\nTrump's first big deal in Manhattan was the development of the Grand Hyatt Hotel in 1978 next to Grand Central Terminal. The aging brick facade of the Commodore Hotel was sheathed in glass, and the existing lobby of the hotel was replaced by an atrium. The Commodore was thus presented as a remodeled Hyatt hotel at its opening in September 1980, helping to bring Trump to public prominence. Part of this deal was a $1 million loan Fred Trump's Village Construction Corp. made to help repay draws on a Chase Manhattan credit line Fred had arranged for Donald as he built the hotel, as well as a $70 million construction loan jointly guaranteed by Fred and the Hyatt hotel chain. Fred was a silent partner in the initiative, due to his reputation having been damaged in New York real estate circles, after investigations into windfall profits and other abuses in his real estate projects, making Donald the front man in the deal. According to journalist Wayne Barrett, Fred's two-decade friendship with a top Equitable officer, Ben Holloway, helped convince them to agree to the project. Donald negotiated a 40-year tax abatement for the hotel with the city, in exchange for a share of the venture's profits. The deal helped reduce the risk of the project and provided an incentive for investors to participate.\n\nIn 1981, Trump purchased and renovated a building that would become the Trump Plaza, on Third Avenue in New York City. Trump made this into an apartment cooperative, in which tenants partly owned the building.\n\nIn 1983, Trump completed development of Trump Tower, a 58-story skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan. The project involved complicated negotiations with different parties for the Bonwit Teller building, the land, and the airspace above a neighboring building. When negotiations were completed in 1978, \"The New York Times\" wrote \"That Mr. Trump was able to obtain the location ... is testimony to [his] persistence and to his skills as a negotiator.\"\n\nTrump Tower occupies the former site of the architecturally significant Bonwit Teller flagship store, which Trump demolished in 1980 after purchasing the site. There was controversy when valuable Art Deco bas-relief sculptures on its facade, which had been promised to the Metropolitan Museum of Art by Trump, were destroyed on the orders of the Trump Organization during the demolition process. In addition, the demolition of the Bonwit Teller store was criticized for a contractor's use of some 200 undocumented Polish immigrant workers, who, during the rushed demolition process, were reportedly paid 4–5 dollars per hour for work in 12-hour shifts. Trump testified in 1990 that he rarely visited the site and was unaware of the illegal workers, some of whom lived at the site and who were known as the \"Polish Brigade\". A judge ruled in 1991 that the builders engaged in \"a conspiracy to deprive the funds of their rightful contribution\", referring to the pension and welfare funds of the labor unions. However, on appeal, parts of that ruling were overturned, and the record became sealed when the long-running labor lawsuit was settled in 1999, after 16 years in court.\n\nTrump Tower was developed by Trump and the Equitable Life Assurance Company, and was designed by architect Der Scutt of Swanke Hayden Connell. Trump Tower houses both the primary penthouse condominium residence of Donald Trump and the headquarters of the Trump Organization. The building includes shops, cafés, offices, and residences. Its five-level atrium features a 60-foot-high waterfall spanned by a suspended walkway, below a skylight. Trump Tower was the setting of the NBC television show \"The Apprentice\" including a fully functional television studio set. When the building was completed, its condominiums sold quickly and the tower became a tourist attraction.\n\nHarrah's at Trump Plaza opened in Atlantic City in 1984. The hotel/casino was built by Trump with financing by Holiday Corp. and operated by the Harrah's gambling unit of Holiday Corp. The casino's poor results exacerbated disagreements between Trump and Holiday Corp. Trump also acquired a partially completed building in Atlantic City from the Hilton Corporation for $320 million. When completed in 1985, the hotel/casino became Trump Castle. Trump's wife, Ivana, managed the property.\n\nTrump acquired the Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, in 1985 for $5 million, plus $3 million for the home's furnishings. In addition to using the home as a winter retreat, Trump also turned it into a private club with membership fees of $150,000. At about the same time, he acquired a condominium complex in West Palm Beach with Lee Iacocca that became Trump Plaza of the Palm Beaches.\n\nRepairs on the Wollman Rink in Central Park, built in 1955, were started in 1980 by a general contractor unconnected to Trump, with an expected -year construction schedule, but were not completed by 1986. Trump took over the project, completed it in three months for $1.95 million, which was $750,000 less than the initial budget, and then operated the rink for one year with all profits going to charity in exchange for the rink's concession rights.\n\nTrump acquired the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan in 1988. He paid $400 million for the property and once again tapped Ivana to manage its operation and renovation.\nLater in 1988, Trump acquired the Taj Mahal Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey, in a transaction with Merv Griffin and Resorts International. The casino was opened in April 1990, and was built at a total cost of $1.1 billion, which at the time made it the most expensive casino ever built. Financed with $675 million in junk bonds at a 14% interest rate, the project entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy the following year. Banks and bondholders, facing potential losses of hundreds of millions of dollars, opted to restructure the debt.\n\nThe Taj Mahal emerged from bankruptcy on October 5, 1991, with Trump ceding 50 percent ownership in the casino to the bondholders in exchange for lowered interest rates and more time to pay off the debt. He also sold his financially challenged Trump Shuttle airline and his 282-foot (86 m) megayacht, the \"Trump Princess\". The property was repurchased in 1996 and consolidated into Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts, which filed for bankruptcy in 2004 with $1.8 billion in debt, filing again for bankruptcy five years later with $50 million in assets and $500 million in debt. The restructuring ultimately left Trump with 10% ownership in the Trump Taj Mahal and other Trump casino properties. Trump served as chairman of the organization, which was renamed Trump Entertainment Resorts, from mid-1995 until early 2009, and served as CEO from mid-2000 to mid-2005.\n\nAlthough Trump has never filed for personal bankruptcy, hotel and casino businesses of his have declared bankruptcy six times between 1991 and 2009 due to its inability to meet required payments and to re-negotiate debt with banks, owners of stock and bonds and various small businesses (unsecured creditors). Because the businesses used Chapter 11 bankruptcy, they were allowed to operate while negotiations proceeded. Trump was quoted by \"Newsweek\" in 2011 saying, \"I do play with the bankruptcy laws—they're very good for me.\"\n\nThe six bankruptcies were the result of over-leveraged hotel and casino businesses in Atlantic City and New York: Trump Taj Mahal (1991), Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino (1992), Plaza Hotel (1992), Trump Castle Hotel and Casino (1992), Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts (2004), and Trump Entertainment Resorts (2009). Trump said \"I've used the laws of this country to pare debt. ... We'll have the company. We'll throw it into a chapter. We'll negotiate with the banks. We'll make a fantastic deal. You know, it's like on \"The Apprentice\". It's not personal. It's just business.\"\n\nTrump acquired an old, vacant, 70-story office building at 40 Wall Street in Manhattan in 1996. After a complete renovation, it became the Trump Building. After his father died in 1999, Trump and his siblings received equal portions of his father's estate valued at $250–300 million.\n\nIn 2001, Trump completed Trump World Tower, a 72-story residential tower across from the United Nations Headquarters. Trump also began construction on Riverside South, which he dubbed Trump Place, a multi-building development along the Hudson River. He continued to own commercial space in Trump International Hotel and Tower, a 44-story mixed-use (hotel and condominium) tower on Columbus Circle which he acquired in 1996, and also continued to own millions of square feet of other prime Manhattan real estate.\n\nTrump acquired the former Hotel Delmonico in Manhattan in 2002. It was re-opened with 35 stories of luxury condominiums in 2004 as the Trump Park Avenue.\n\nTrump has owned a house on North Rodeo Drive in the Beverly Hills, California/Los Angeles area, bought for $7 million, since 2007. He bought a home next door in 2008 from Omar Bongo, the president of Gabon who would die in office in 2009, for $10.35 million. Trump sold the second LA home, built in 1981, for $9,500,095 in 2009 for an $850,000 (8%) loss. The second house went back on the market in mid-2016 listed at nearly $30 million.\n\nTrump has licensed his name and image for the development of a number of real estate projects including two Trump-branded real estate projects in Florida that have gone into foreclosure. The Turkish owner of Trump Towers Istanbul, who pays Trump for the use of his name, was reported in December 2015 to be exploring legal means to dissociate the property after the candidate's call to temporarily ban Muslims from entering the United States.\n\nTrump also licensed his name to son-in-law Jared Kushner's 50-story Trump Bay Street, a Jersey City luxury development that has raised $50 million of its $200 million capitalization largely from wealthy Chinese nationals who, after making an initial down payment of $500,000 in concert with the government's expedited EB-5 visa program, can usually obtain United States permanent residency for themselves and their families after two years. Trump is a partner with Kushner Properties only in name licensing and not in the building's financing.\n\nTrump, according to Jack Nicklaus, \"loves the game of golf more than he loves money\". His handicap is 2.8. The Trump Organization operates many golf courses and resorts in the United States and around the world. The number of golf courses that Trump owns or manages is about 18, according to \"Golfweek\". Trump's personal financial disclosure with the Federal Elections Commission stated that his golf and resort revenue for the year 2015 was roughly $382 million.\n\nIn 2006, Trump bought the Menie Estate in Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, creating a golf resort against the wishes of local residents on an area designated as a Site of Special Scientific Interest. A 2011 independent documentary, \"You've Been Trumped,\" by British filmmaker Anthony Baxter, chronicled the golf resort's construction and the subsequent struggles between the locals and Donald Trump. Despite Trump's promises of 6,000 jobs, in 2016, by his own admission, the golf course has created only 200 jobs.\n\nIn April 2014, Trump purchased the Turnberry hotel and golf resort in Ayrshire, Scotland, which is a regular fixture in the Open Championship rota. In June 2015, Trump's appeal objecting to an offshore windfarm (Aberdeen Bay Wind Farm) within sight of the golf links was denied. In December 2015, Trump's attempt to prevent the windfarm being built within sight of his golf course was dismissed by five justices at the UK Supreme Court in the case of \"Trump International Golf Club Scotland Ltd v The Scottish Ministers\".\n\nIn 1983, Trump's New Jersey Generals became a charter member of the new United States Football League (USFL). Before the inaugural season began in 1983, Trump sold the franchise to Oklahoma oil magnate J. Walter Duncan, and bought it back after the season. He then attempted to hire longtime Miami Dolphins coach Don Shula, but the deal fell apart because he was unwilling to meet Shula's demand for an apartment in Trump Tower. Trump ended up hiring former New York Jets coach Walt Michaels. The USFL played its first three seasons during the spring and summer, but Trump convinced the majority of the owners of other USFL teams to move the USFL 1986 schedule to the fall, directly opposite the National Football League (NFL), arguing that it would eventually force a merger with the NFL, which would supposedly increase their investment significantly.\n\nBefore the 1985 season, Trump signed Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Doug Flutie to a $7 million 5-year personal-services contract. That made Flutie the highest-paid pro football player at the time, as well as the highest-paid rookie in any professional sport. After the season, the Generals merged with the Houston Gamblers. Trump owned 50% of the newly merged team, which would stay in New Jersey and retain the Generals nickname. At the time, Trump boasted \"it's probably the best team in football.\" (New Jersey and Houston both had good but not great seasons in 1985: they each made the playoffs but lost first-round games.)\n\nThe Generals never played another game. The 1986 season was cancelled after the USFL won a pyrrhic victory in an antitrust lawsuit against the NFL: the NFL technically lost the suit, but the USFL was awarded just $3.00 in cash damages. The USFL, which was down to just 7 active franchises from a high of 18, folded soon afterward.\n\nTrump had expressed an interest in purchasing the Cleveland Indians for $13 million in a February 15, 1983 letter sent by Kenneth Molloy to team president Gabe Paul. Trump increased his offer to $34 million later that same year. His lack of commitment to keep the franchise in Cleveland beyond three years cost him any chance of completing the acquisition.\n\nTrump remained involved with other sports after the Generals folded, operating golf courses in several countries. He also hosted several boxing matches in Atlantic City at the Trump Plaza, including Mike Tyson's 1988 fight against Michael Spinks, and at one time acted as a financial advisor for Tyson.\n\nIn 1989 and 1990, Trump lent his name to the Tour de Trump cycling stage race which was an attempt to create an American equivalent of European races such as the Tour de France or the Giro d'Italia. The name was suggested by his business partner, basketball commentator Billy Packer, who originally planned to call the race the Tour de Jersey. The first stage of the inaugural race ended in the college town of New Paltz, New York where picketers greeted the riders with anti-Trump signs. The second stage began in New York City, and Mayor Ed Koch, who had denounced Trump as \"one of the great hucksters\", boycotted the event. The last stage of the 10-stage 837-mile race was even more controversial. Going into the last stage, Belgian rider Eric Vanderaerden was favored to win the tour championship, but lost at least 1 minute 20 seconds when he took a wrong turn on a poorly marked course in Atlantic City, riding a quarter-mile or more out of his way. He ended up finishing third overall, behind tour winner Dag-Otto Lauritzen (a Norwegian rider with the American-owned 7-Eleven team) and runner-up Henk Lubberding, who also took a wrong turn during the last stage. Trump withdrew his sponsorship after the second Tour de Trump in 1990, because his other business ventures were experiencing financial woes. The race continued for several more years as the Tour DuPont.\n\nTrump submitted a stalking-horse bid on the Buffalo Bills when it came up for sale following Ralph Wilson's death in 2014; he was ultimately outbid, as he expected, and Kim and Terrence Pegula won the auction. During his 2016 presidential run, he was critical of the NFL's updated concussion rules, complaining on the campaign trail that the game has been made \"soft\" and \"weak\", saying a concussion is just \"a ding on the head.\" He accused referees of throwing penalty flags needlessly just to be seen on television \"so their wives see them at home.\"\n\nFrom 1996 until 2015, when he sold his interests, Trump owned part or all of the Miss Universe, Miss USA, and Miss Teen USA beauty pageants.\n\nMiss Universe debuted on CBS, and both Miss Universe and Miss USA moved to NBC in 2002. In 2012, Trump won a $5 million arbitration award against a contestant who claimed the show was rigged. In 2015, NBC and Univision both ended their business relationships with the Miss Universe Organization during Trump's presidential campaign . Trump later announced that he had become the sole owner of the Miss Universe Organization by purchasing NBC's stake. He sold his own interests in the pageant shortly afterwards, to WME/IMG.\n\nIn 1999, a few years after buying into Miss Universe, Trump founded a modeling company, Trump Model Management, which operates in the SoHo neighborhood of Lower Manhattan. Together with another Trump company, Trump Management Group LLC, Trump Model Management has brought hundreds of foreign fashion models into the United States to work in the fashion industry since 2000. This business and the beauty pageants overlapped somewhat, with various pageant contestants getting modelling contracts.\n\nTrump University LLC was an American for-profit education company that ran a real estate training program from 2005 until at least 2010. After multiple lawsuits, it is now defunct. It was founded by Donald Trump and his associates, Michael Sexton and Jonathan Spitalny. The company offered courses in real estate, asset management, entrepreneurship, and wealth creation, charging between $1,500 and $35,000 per course. In 2005 the operation was notified by New York State authorities that its use of the word \"university\" violated state law. After a second such notification in 2010, the name of the operation was changed to the \"Trump Entrepreneurial Institute\". Trump was also found personally liable for failing to obtain a business license for the operation.\n\nIn 2013 the state of New York filed a $40 million civil suit claiming that Trump University made false claims and defrauded consumers. In addition, two class-action civil lawsuits relating to Trump University were filed in federal court; they named Donald Trump personally as well as his companies. All three cases were settled in November 2016, after Trump's election to the presidency, for a total of $25 million.\n\nTrump repeatedly criticized a judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel, who is overseeing two of the Trump University cases. During campaign speeches and interviews up until June 2016, Trump called Curiel a \"hater of Donald Trump\", saying his rulings have been unfair, and that Curiel \"happens to be, we believe, Mexican, which is great. I think that's fine\", while suggesting that the judge's ethnicity posed a conflict of interest in light of Trump's proposal to build a wall on the United States–Mexican border. Many legal experts were critical of Trump's attacks on Curiel, often viewing them as racially charged, unfounded, and an affront to the concept of an independent judiciary. On June 7, 2016, Trump issued a lengthy statement saying that his criticism of the judge had been \"misconstrued\" and that his concerns about Curiel's impartiality were not based upon ethnicity alone, but also upon rulings in the case.\n\nThe Donald J. Trump Foundation is a U.S.-based private foundation established in 1988 for the initial purpose of giving away proceeds from the book \"\" by Trump and Tony Schwartz. The foundation's funds mostly come from donors other than Trump, who has not given personally to the charity since 2008. The top donors to the foundation from 2004 to 2014 were Vince and Linda McMahon of World Wrestling Entertainment, who donated $5 million to the foundation after Trump appeared at WrestleMania in 2007.\n\nThe foundation's tax returns show that it has given to healthcare and sports-related charities, as well as conservative groups. In 2009, for example, the foundation gave $926,750 to about 40 groups, with the biggest donations going to the Arnold Palmer Medical Center Foundation ($100,000), the New York Presbyterian Hospital ($125,000), the Police Athletic League ($156,000), and the Clinton Foundation ($100,000).\n\nStarting in 2016 \"The Washington Post\" began reporting on how the foundation raised and granted money. The \"Post\" uncovered several potential legal and ethical violations, such as alleged self-dealing and possible tax evasion. The New York State Attorney General is investigating the foundation \"to make sure it is complying with the laws governing charities in New York.\" A Trump spokesman called the investigation a \"partisan hit job\". On October 3, 2016, the New York Attorney General's office notified the Trump Foundation that it was in violation of New York laws regarding charities, and ordered it to immediately cease its fundraising activities \"in New York\".\n\nTrump has marketed his name on a large number of building projects as well as commercial products and services, achieving mixed success doing so for himself, his partners, and investors in the projects. In 2011, \"Forbes\" financial experts estimated the value of the Trump brand at $200 million. Trump disputed this valuation, saying his brand was worth about $3 billion.\n\nMany developers pay Trump to market their properties and to be the public face for their projects. For that reason, Trump does not own many of the buildings that display his name. According to \"Forbes\", this portion of Trump's empire, actually run by his children, is by far his most valuable, having a $562 million valuation. According to \"Forbes\", there are 33 licensing projects under development including seven \"condo hotels\" (the seven Trump International Hotel and Tower developments). In June 2015, \"Forbes\" pegged the Trump brand at $125 million as retailers like Macy's Inc. and Serta Mattresses began dropping Trump-branded products.\n\nTrump's personal financial market investment portfolio is concentrated in the financial and commodities markets. The investment portfolio generates income and cash flow from a variety of mechanisms as dividends, capital gains, and compounded carried interest. He invested a minimum of $70 million in stocks. \nThough real estate is still his most preferred asset class, Trump became an active financial market investor in 2011 following disappointment from depressed American real estate market and various investments in the Federal Reserve's interest yields on CDs were next to nothing. Trump stated that he was not enthusiastic to be a stock market investor, but that prime real estate at good prices was hard to find at that time and that stocks and equity securities were cheap and generating good cash flow from dividends. He profited from 40 of the 45 stocks he purchased which he sold in 2014, making it almost a 90% success rate in capital appreciation in addition to millions in earned dividends. The biggest gainers in his stock portfolio were Bank of America Corporation, The Boeing Company and Facebook, Inc earning a windfall profit of $6.7 million, $3.96 million and $3.85 million, respectively.\n\nTrump's stock portfolio was valued somewhere between $33.4 million and $87.9 million in 2015 and was invested in many sectors, including public companies such as tobacco distributors, retail outlets, pharmaceutical companies, industrial manufacturing companies, financial conglomerates, oil companies, high technology firms and defense contractors. Public stock investments within his portfolio include General Electric, Chevron, UPS, Coca-Cola, Home Depot, Comcast, Sanofi, Ford, ConocoPhillips, Energy Transfer Partners, Altera, Verizon Communications, Procter & Gamble, Bank of America, Nike, Google, Apple Inc., Philip Morris, Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Whole Foods, Intel, IBM, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Johnson & Johnson, Caterpillar, Kinder Morgan, AT&T and Facebook. He has at least $78 million invested in a variety of paper assets such as stocks, bonds, mutual funds, private equity funds, fund of funds, and hedge funds. His financial market investment accounts are kept at JPMorgan, Barclays, Deutsche Bank and Oppenheimer. His Barclays account includes investments in 32 entities and cash worth between $49,021 and $396,001 and having stock in two accounts at Deutsche Bank that contain cash, treasury bills, and stock in 173 entities. His investment account with Oppenheimer contains cash and has 31 positions worth between $10,380,031 and $33,301,000. His account with JPMorgan contains stock in 60 firms valued between $1,251,008 and $2,617,000.\n\nTrump has also invested in funds that focus on middle and smaller sized businesses such as Tesla Motors, the electric car maker and has invested internationally in a number of emerging market, growth and hedge funds located in Europe and Asia. He has also invested in a number of private equity and hedge funds including $1 to $5 million in Advantage Plus, $1 to $5 million in AG Diversified Funds, $2 million in MidOcean Credit Opportunities, $4 million in Paulson & Co., and around $5 million with Angelo, Gordon & Co.. Trump's biggest fund holding has been in Black Rock's Obsidian Fund, where his stake is estimated to be between $25 million to $50 million. Nearly all of Trump's open end mutual fund investments are concentrated in Baron Capital Management, a mid-sized mutual fund family headed by mutual fund mogul Ronald S. Baron. Trump invested $16.2 million in Baron Capital Management, making him a significant minority shareholder. He revealed that he earned over $22 million with his private equity, hedge fund, and mutual fund investments and generated between $1.5 million and $10 million in income almost all of it from investments such as dividends, capital gains, and carried interest. Trump also has a portion of his portfolio invested in U.S. Treasury bonds.\n\nOn a government form submitted in 2015, Trump reported holding an amount of physical gold, valued at between $100,001 to $250,000.\n\nTrump has released some financial information, but has declined to publicly release any of his full tax returns, saying that he will do so before the 2016 election if what his attorneys described as an ongoing audit by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is completed covering tax returns for the years 2009 through 2016. According to a July 2015 press release from his campaign manager, Trump's \"income\" for the year 2014 was $362 million (\"which does not include dividends, interest, capital gains, rents and royalties\"). His disclosure filings for the year 2015 stated that his total gross revenue was in excess of $611 million.\n\n\"Fortune\" magazine has reported that the $362 million figure as stated on his Federal Election Commission (FEC) filings is not \"income\" but gross revenue before salaries, interest payments on outstanding debt, and other business-related expenses; Trump's net income was \"most likely\" about one-third of that. According to public records, Trump received a $302 New York tax rebate in 2013 (and in two other recent years) given to couples earning less than $500,000 per year, who submit as proof their federal tax returns. Trump's campaign manager has suggested that Trump's tax rebate was an error.\n\nIn October 2016, it was revealed that Trump had claimed a loss of $916 million on his 1995 tax returns. As tax losses from one year can be applied to offset income from future years, the $916 million loss allowed him to reduce or eliminate his taxable income (and consequently his US federal income taxes) during the eighteen year carry forward period. Trump acknowledged he used the loss but declined to provide details such as the specific years the loss was applied.\n\nAn investigative story by the New York Times found that in the early 1990s in order to avoid \"financial ruin\" Trump's businesses used methods which were \"legally dubious\" to avoid paying taxes, and that Trump's own lawyers described these activities as \"improper\". Independent tax experts stated that \"Whatever loophole existed was not 'exploited' here, but stretched beyond any recognition\" and that it involved \"sleight of hand\". Since the taxes were related to the reduction in Trump's extensive junk bond debt at the time and the bankruptcies of three of Trump's casinos, the methods used were probably related, according to the report, to Trump's reported $916 million loss reported on his 1995 tax return.\n\nIn 2016, \"Forbes\" estimated Trump's net worth at $3.7 billion, and \"Bloomberg\" $3 billion. These estimates would make him one of the richest politicians in American history. He has often given much higher estimates, sometimes over $10 billion, with the discrepancy due in part to the uncertainty of appraised property values, as well as his own assessment of the value of his personal brand. , \"Forbes\" ranked him the 156th wealthiest person in the U.S. and the 324th wealthiest in the world. \n\nOn June 16, 2015, just prior to announcing his candidacy for president of the United States, Trump released a one-page financial statement \"from a big accounting firm—one of the most respected\"—stating a net worth of $8,737,540,000. \"I'm really rich\", Trump said. \"Forbes\" believed his claim of $9 billion was \"a whopper,\" figuring it was actually $4.1 billion. In June 2015, \"Business Insider\" published Trump's June 2014 financial statement, noting that $3.3 billion of that total is represented by \"Real Estate Licensing Deals, Brand and Branded Developments\", described by \"Business Insider\" as \"basically [implying] that Trump values his character at $3.3 billion.\" In July 2015, federal election regulators released new details of Trump's self-reported wealth and financial holdings when he became a Republican presidential candidate, reporting that his assets are worth above $1.4 billion, which includes at least $70 million in stocks, and a debt of at least $265 million. According to \"Bloomberg\", for the purposes of Trump's FEC filings Trump \"only reported revenue for [his] golf properties in his campaign filings even though the disclosure form asks for income\", noting independent filings showing all three of his major European golf properties were unprofitable.\n\nMortgages on Trump's major properties—including Trump Tower, 40 Wall Street, and the Trump National Doral golf course—each fall into the \"above $50 million\" range, the highest reportable category on FEC filings, with Trump paying interest rates ranging from 4% to 7.125%. Mortgages on those three properties were separately reported as $100 million, $160 million, and $125 million in 2013. Trump is a leaseholder, not owner, of the land beneath 40 Wall Street. Other outstanding Trump mortgages and debts are pegged to current market interest rates. A 2012 report from Trump's accounting firm estimated $451.7 million in debt and other collateral obligations. Filings in 2015 disclosed debt of $504 million, according to \"Fortune\" magazine. \"Bloomberg\" documented debt of at least $605 million in 2016. Trump's outstanding debt was at least $650 million in August 2016, in addition to an outstanding loan of $950 million to the Bank of China and Deutsche Bank (among other creditors) on 1290 Avenue of the Americas, in which Trump is a minority owner.\n\nTrump was listed on the initial \"Forbes List\" of wealthy individuals in 1982 as having an estimated $200 million fortune, including a share of his father's estimated $200 million net worth. After several years on the list, Trump's financial losses in the 1980s caused him to be dropped from 1990 to 1995, and reportedly obliged him to borrow from his siblings' trusts in 1993; in 2005, \"The New York Times\" referred to Trump's \"verbal billions\" in a skeptical article about Trump's self-reported wealth. At the time, three individuals with direct knowledge of Trump's finances told reporter Timothy L. O'Brien that Trump's actual net worth was between $150 and $250 million, though Trump then publicly claimed a net worth of $5 to $6 billion. Claiming libel, Trump sued the reporter (and his book publisher) for $5 billion, lost the case, and then lost again on appeal; Trump refused to turn over his unredacted tax returns despite his assertion they supported his case. In a sworn deposition, Trump testified that he once borrowed $9.6 million from his father, calling it \"a very small amount of money\", but could not recall when he did so; Trump has since told campaign audiences he began his career with \"a small loan of one million dollars\" from his father, which he paid back with interest: \"it has not been easy for me\", Trump told one New Hampshire crowd.\n\nA July 2015 campaign press release, issued one month after Trump announced his presidential run, said that the FEC filing \"was not designed for a man of Mr. Trump's massive wealth\" and that his \"net worth is in excess of \". However, Trump has testified that \"my net worth fluctuates, and it goes up and down with markets and with attitudes and with feelings—even my own feelings.\" On the same day, Trump's own stated estimates of his net worth have varied by as much as $3.3 billion. Trump has also acknowledged that past exaggerated estimates of his wealth have been \"good for financing\". \"Forbes\" has said that although Trump \"shares a lot of information with us that helps us get to the figures we publish,\" he \"consistently pushes for a higher net worth—especially when it comes to the value of his personal brand.\" \"Forbes\" reduced its estimate of Trump's net worth by $125 million following Trump's controversial 2015 remarks about Mexican illegal immigrants, which ended Trump's business contracts with NBCUniversal, Univision, Macy's, Serta, PVH Corporation, and Perfumania. An internal Young & Rubicam study of Trump's brand among high-income consumers showed \"plummeting\" ratings for traits such as \"prestigious\", \"upper class\", and \"glamorous\" at the end of 2015, suggesting that Trump's various businesses could face market difficulties and financing challenges in the future.\n\nThe value of the Trump brand may have fallen due to his presidential campaign. Some consumers say they are avoiding purchasing Trump-branded products and services as a protest against Trump and his campaign. Bookings and foot traffic at Trump-branded hotels and casinos fell off sharply in 2016, primarily driven by a decrease in visits to the properties by women. Following the release of the \"Access Hollywood\" tape recordings in October 2016, the value of the Trump brand was reported to have taken a further hit, with estimates of the reduction in the brand's added value of up to 13 percentage points.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27954944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27954944", "title": "Business interoperability interface", "text": "Business interoperability interface\n\nA business interoperability interface (BII) is an interface that enables business interoperability between organizational systems. The term was coined by the European Commission in the European Interoperability Framework where such interfaces are recommended to improve the interoperability of public administrations that internally use different standards.\n\nThough the BII description of the European Commission remains vague, the following requirements are described: The BII should describe entry and exit points to the internal business processes of an organization and it should describe the contribution and commitments the collaboration partners require from each other in a formal way. Furthermore, the BII should enable the enactment of collaborative business processes and interconnect the business processes of different organizations. This description implies that the main objective of the BII is to describe to collaboration partners how they can interact with an organization.\n\nAn interface represents the point of interconnection between two systems or subsystems. Since collaborative business always comprises interactions between organizational systems (e. g. enterprises or departments), interfaces are an essential element in the development of collaborative business processes. In the context of organizations working together, interface descriptions should describe those characteristics of a system that are relevant for adjacent systems. \nWhile interfaces in information systems formerly concentrated on technical aspects, e.g. by describing Application Programming Interfaces, recent developments like Service-oriented Architecture shifted the attention to conceptual interfaces aiming at a business-level description of services and organizational boundaries.\n\nIn a similar vein it was argued, that previous interoperability definitions focused too much on technical aspects. In consequence, the term Business Interoperability was proposed, for example defined as \"the organizational and operational ability of an enterprise to cooperate with its business partners and to efficiently establish, conduct and develop IT-supported business relationships with the objective to create value\". Interoperability is usually understood as the capability of autonomous systems \"to exchange information and be able to use it\", or simply put: the capability of autonomous system to work together or to collaborate. Since \"working together\" of autonomous organizations means that they execute a collaborative business process, Business Interoperability can also be defined as \"... the capability of autonomous organizations to execute a collaborative business process among them\".\n\nBased on the definitions of business interoperability and interface the term BII can be defined as follows:\n\n\"The Business Interoperability Interface of an organization comprises all information that is relevant for partner organizations in order to enact a collaborative business process with the organization. The interface comprises those elements of a collaborative business process, which are provided by the organization itself as well as the elements, the organization expects from partner organizations.\"\n\nThe BII contents are not restricted to process descriptions: in order to enact a collaborative business process, the collaboration partners do not only need to know the sequence in which activities are executed but also require complementary information like organizational roles, specifics of individual activities or document types. Likewise, the description of the BII should cover different levels of technical granularity since the systematic enactment of collaborative business processes requires models on both the business and the technical level.\n\nAn EU-research project, aiming at improving interoperability between European public administrations, delivered a proposal for designing and implementing a Business Interoperability Interface, which was later refined in scientific publications.\n\nThe illustration summarizes the idea of this BII implementation: Organization A and B each has an internal/private view on its information system. From this internal model, they derive a view for their collaboration partner. For example, in the public process of Organization A, only those activities of the private process from Organization A are comprised which are relevant for the collaboration partner (i.e. Organization B). All these public elements are then bundled in the BII where a collaboration partner can read them. If the elements of adjacent BII-elements fit together and all collaboration partners agreed on how to interpret them, they are also called global elements.\n\nThe BII described there tackles four enterprise dimensions: In the organization dimension, roles, units and other organization elements relevant for the collaboration are described and related to internal elements. This ensures for example, that the collaboration partners have a common understanding of the interacting roles. In the data dimension, document types used in the collaboration are defined and related to internally used document types. In the function dimension, business functions and services offered in the collaboration are described. In the process dimension, the processes that each organization offers are described as well as how these public processes are related to adjacent processes of partner organizations.\n"}
{"id": "6594337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6594337", "title": "Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart (Houston)", "text": "Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart (Houston)\n\nThe Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart is a place of worship located at 1111 St. Joseph Parkway in downtown Houston. The co-cathedral seats 1,820 people in its sanctuary. Together with the venerable St. Mary's Cathedral Basilica in Galveston, Sacred Heart serves more than 1.2 million Roman Catholics in the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston.\n\nIn 1847, Pope Pius IX established the Diocese of Galveston for the 20,000 Catholics who lived in the new state of Texas. This new diocese covered an area as large as France and was served by one bishop and ten missionary priests. Construction of the second St. Mary's parish began in 1847 in Galveston and in 1848 it was dedicated as St. Mary's Cathedral of the newly established diocese of Galveston. St. Mary's was the first catholic Cathedral in the state of Texas and for over 100 years it was the only cathedral in the Diocese of Galveston.\n\nDue to the tremendous growth in the city of Houston, in 1959, the Holy See permitted the Most Reverend Wendelin J. Nold, fifth bishop of the Galveston Diocese, to erect a cathedral of convenience in the city. Because of its central location, he chose Sacred Heart Church, built in 1911, to serve as co-cathedral and installed an episcopal chair. This did not change the status of the City of Galveston as an Episcopal see, however it did permit full pontifical ceremonies to be held in Houston, as well as Galveston. Both cathedrals are co-equal in rank; however, since St. Mary's is the original Cathedral for the State of Texas, it has the distinction of being the Mother Cathedral for all the Catholic dioceses in Texas.\n\nIn 1979, in recognition of the Galveston Cathedral's importance to the community and state, as well as its historical role as the mother church for Catholicism in the state of Texas, Pope John Paul II elevated St. Mary's to the status of Cathedral Basilica.\n\nThe third Bishop of Galveston, Nicholas A. Gallagher, established Sacred Heart parish in downtown Houston as the fourth parish in the city on November 22, 1896, to serve the growing Catholic population. The Reverend Thomas Keaney, became the first pastor of Sacred Heart Church.\n\nOn March 11, 1897, Keaney purchased property facing Pierce and Fannin Streets and architect Olle J. Lorehn drew plans for a gothic-style church. However, construction on Lorehn's design would not begin until 1911. To serve the congregation in the interim, a small church was built on the corner of Pierce and San Jacinto Streets. Bishop Gallagher laid the cornerstone for the temporary sanctuary on May 16, 1897, and dedicated it on November 6, 1897.\n\nOn June 11, 1911, Bishop Gallagher laid the cornerstone of the present Sacred Heart Church. The church was dedicated to God’s service on April 14, 1912, at a final cost of $96,669. The new Sacred Heart Church accommodated 800 people, and was three stories. After the completion of the new Sacred Heart, the temporary church became the school building.\n\nFather Morgan J. Crow, the fourth pastor of Sacred Heart, constructed a two-story, brick rectory that was completed and occupied in 1920 to replace the wooden structure. In 1922, the original church building was demolished to make way for a new school building at a cost of $52,800.\n\nMonsignor Jerome A. Rapp, the fifth pastor of Sacred Heart (1927–1952), oversaw much of the interior decoration of the church including acquiring statuary. His successor, Monsignor John J. Roach, installed central heating and air-conditioning in 1953 and in 1954, expanded the parish footprint by acquiring adjacent property at Fannin and Calhoun Streets. With this purchase, the parish owned an entire city block.\n\nUnder Father Troy Gately, in December 2006, the Co-Cathedral parish purchased the former Federal Reserve Bank Building, adjacent to the new Co-Cathedral for $5,000,000, and named it Cathedral Centre. It will replace the 1922 Sacred Heart School building to house classrooms, offices, parish hall, youth rooms, child care center, music rooms, library, and a cafeteria. The parish is expected to spend another $2,000,000 on renovations for the new Cathedral Centre.\n\nBy the 2000s, the archdiocese had long outgrown the 90-year-old Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart. Since it was constructed as a parish church, it had been enlarged over the years through a patchwork of renovations and additions and rather than make more costly additions, the Archdiocese decided to construct a new Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart.\n\nZiegler Cooper Architects of Houston was selected to design and Linbeck Group was selected as general contractor. In the spring of 2002, design began for the new co-cathedral. Working with Joseph Fiorenza, then Bishop of Galveston-Houston, a model was constructed of the final design concept. Bishop Fiorenza took a picture of the co-cathedral model to the Vatican where he reportedly obtained approval of the design from Pope John Paul II.\n\nOn January 30, 2005, newly elevated Archbishop Fiorenza presided over a groundbreaking ceremony for the new co-cathedral and construction began shortly afterwards. The new Sacred Heart serves the archdiocese as both an ecclesiastical and civic center.\n\nThe building footprint is occupying on a site of . The co-cathedral seats 1,820 with room for an additional 200 temporary chairs. The co-cathedral is designed in a simplified Italian Romanesque style with a cruciform shape. The exterior is clad in Indiana Limestone and the interior is accented with of marble. The shallow dome over the crossing extends to a height of over the -tall nave. The exterior dome is clad in copper and capped by a gilded crucifix while the interior features an occulus depicting the Holy Spirit in stained glass. The campanile is high. One hundred and eight stained glass panels and windows, including those in the Clerestory, were designed and constructed in Florence, Italy by Mellini Art Glass and Mosaics.\n\nMost Reverend Joseph A. Fiorenza, now Archbishop Emeritus of the Galveston-Houston Archdiocese oversaw construction of the new co-cathedral. In one of his articles in the \"Texas Catholic Herald\", Fiorenza was quoted as saying:\n\nThe existence of the Sacred Heart Co-Cathedral does not affect the status of St. Mary's Cathedral Basilica in Galveston. Both the cathedral and co-cathedral will continue to serve the needs of the citizens of the archdiocese.\n\nOn April 2, 2008, the New Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart open its doors with a dedication Mass, attended by Bishops and Cardinals from across the United States and around the world. The new Co-Cathedral was dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus by Cardinal Daniel DiNardo Archbishop of Galveston-Houston and Archbishop Joseph A. Fiorenza. The final cost of the new Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart was US$49,000,000.\n\nSince construction of the Co-Cathedral was completed in April 2008, Linbeck Group (the General Contractor) has been awarded numerous accolades for its work on the project. The list of awards includes, the 2008 ASA Excellence in Construction Award, 2008 AGC Standard of Excellence Award, 2008 CSI Houston Craftsmanship Award, 2008 AGC Houston Apex Award, 2008 TBB AGC Outstanding Construction Award, 2008 Texas Construction Judges Award, 2008 McGraw-Hill Best of the Best Award and 2009 AGC Build America Award.\n\nShortly after the opening of the new structure, the archdiocese announced that the 1912 church building that served as the Co-Cathedral would be demolished and the site would become a parking lot for the new church. However, due to an outcry from parishioners and preservationists, the Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston has sought ways to use the former church building.\n\nIn 2004, Preservation Texas added Sacred Heart to the 2004 list of Texas' Most Endangered Historic Places. In addition, The Greater Houston Preservation Alliance (GHPA) a local organization in Houston did the same.\n\nThe Archdiocese announced plans in late 2007 to demolish the 1922 Sacred Heart School building to provide parking for the new Co-Cathedral across San Jacinto Street. A master plan includes the eventual demolition of the former school building for a parking lot and the removal of the parking lot behind the old church to replace the asphalt parking lot with a landscaped park to be known as Cathedral Green. There are no current plans for the removal of the rectory or the old church building. However, it is possible that 1957 rectory and the 1912 Sacred Heart Church building may be saved. The Archdiocese at this point has not made a final decision on the future of the old Sacred Heart, but the final decision is in the hands of Cardinal DiNardo.\n\nThe original sanctuary is no longer used for services. For a short time after the opening of the new structure, weddings were permitted at the old Co-Cathedral. However, the Archdiocese has moved all activities to the new Co-Cathedral Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17571462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17571462", "title": "Communication-enabled business process", "text": "Communication-enabled business process\n\nThe goal of a communication-enabled business process (CEBP) is to optimize business process by reducing the human latency that exists within a process flow. For example, a mortgage approval process may be experiencing human latency because the person assigned to providing an approval is on vacation or busy working on something else. To reduce this latency, CEBP leverages unified communications capabilities (i.e. UC services) by embedding them into the business process flow. The result is a more efficient, more automated closed-loop process; translating into significant ROI.\n\nIf the person does not provide the necessary approval within a designated period of time then the business process would invoke a UC service such as “notify and respond” from an IP PBX, voice portal/IVR, conferencing application, etc. These embedded UC services would “notify” the person that they need to do something. If the person does not “respond” to the notification then it can be escalated to a manager in the same manner.\n\nIn fact, there are a number of UC services that could be embedded within a business process to reduce human latency. These could include: conference [on demand], alert, escalate, contact resident expert, etc.; all of which create measurable business value.\n\nThe great thing about CEBP is that it can be applied horizontally across different lines of business and different industries. Virtually every business process is hampered by human latency. Some other use cases that CEBP can be applied to include: roadside assistance, stock portfolio alerts, personal information loss, claims processing, inventory management, etc. Here is a more detailed example:\n\nIn claims processing, the organization’s goal is to decrease claim close times and improve their closure rate. However, this process is often hampered by several inefficiencies – the paperwork process can be manually intensive; time-sensitive dependencies on member signatures exist, resulting in significant delays in the approval process.\n\nA CEBP solution would be implemented to automate and communications-enable the claims process with embedded UC services like: reminders, alerts, and notifications.\n\nQuantifiable business results could include: decreased close times; greater agent/specialist productivity, enabling them to spend more time adjusting claims rather than fielding calls on the claims; increased revenue and member satisfaction/retention.\n\nMany UC vendors claim that they do CEBP today. However, one very important distinction needs to be made…there is a difference between communications integrated into business process and communications enabled business process. \n\nIt is person triggered as illustrated in examples like adding a click-to-dial function to an ERP or CRM application. As described above, CEBP is much more sophisticated in its ability to automate business process flows; it is usually event triggered, providing a much stronger ROI to many lines of business and vertical industries.\n"}
{"id": "55417302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55417302", "title": "Dana Bérová", "text": "Dana Bérová\n\nDana Bérová (born 25 April 1967) is a Czech businesswoman and former government minister. She was Minister of Informatics in Jiří Paroubek's cabinet. From 2009 to 2011, Bérová featured as one of five potential investors in television show \"Den D\", the Czech version of \"Dragons' Den\".\n"}
{"id": "13433476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13433476", "title": "Edholm's law", "text": "Edholm's law\n\nEdholm's law, named for Phil Edholm, says the wireless, nomadic and wired network capabilities will converge. Soon, even slower communications channels like cellphones and radio modems will eclipse the capacity of early Ethernet, thanks to upcoming standards known as UMTS and MIMO, which will boost bandwidth by maximizing antenna usage.\n\nExtrapolating forward indicates a convergence between the rates of nomadic and wireless technologies around 2030.\n\n"}
{"id": "12028001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12028001", "title": "Enkeltpersonforetak", "text": "Enkeltpersonforetak\n\nEnkeltpersonforetak (ENK) is a type of sole proprietorship in Norway. \n\nThe company is considered part of the personal assets of the owner, who holds the full juridical and economic liability of the company. The sole proprietorship entity holds a number of advantages, such as that there is no minimum equity, requirements for auditing or registration fee at the Brønnøysund Register Centre. Sole proprietorships do not have to have the two or three letter corresponding company type in the official company name. Instead they are required to have the surname of the proprietor somewhere in the company name.\n"}
{"id": "7661716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7661716", "title": "European Fair Trade Association", "text": "European Fair Trade Association\n\nThe European Fair Trade Association is a Dutch association established informally in 1987. It gained formal status in 1990. It regroups 11 fair trade importers in 9 European countries: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. EFTA members include Ctm altromercato, Gepa3 Fair Handelshaus and Traidcraft. EFTA's aim is to support its member organizations in their work and encourage cooperation and coordination.\n\nFair trade importing organizations buy food and handicrafts from disadvantaged producers in developing countries and aim at improving market access and strengthening producer organizations. EFTA members generally follow Fairtrade Labelling Organizations International (FLO) Standards, to which additional standards may be added with the aim of providing special support to particular target groups (women, ethnic minorities, politically persecuted, etc.). In Europe, they sell their products through Worldshops, local groups, wholesalers and mail order catalogues. Fair trade importing organizations also play an important role in awareness raising and in educating consumers and public authorities on fair trade and trade justice issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "307592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307592", "title": "Export", "text": "Export\n\nThe term export in international trade means the sending of goods or services produced in one country to another country. The seller of such goods and services is referred to as an \"exporter\"; the foreign buyer is referred to as an \"importer\".\n\nExport of goods often requires involvement of customs authorities. An export's reverse counterpart is an import.\n\nMany manufacturing firms began their global expansion as exporters and only later switched to another mode for serving a foreign market.\n\nMethods of exporting a product or good or information include mail, hand delivery, air shipping, shipping by vessel, uploading to an internet site, or downloading from an internet site. Exports also include distribution of information sent as email, an email attachment, fax or in a telephone conversation.\n\nTrade barriers are government laws, regulations, policy, or practices that either protect domestic products from foreign competition or artificially stimulate exports of particular domestic products. While restrictive business practices sometimes have a similar effect, they are not usually regarded as trade barriers. The most common foreign trade barriers are government-imposed measures and policies that restrict, prevent, or impede the international exchange of goods and services.\n\nInternational agreements limit trade in and the transfer of, certain types of goods and information e.g. goods associated with weapons of mass destruction, advanced telecommunications, arms and torture, and also some art and archaeological artefacts. For example:\n\nA tariff is a tax placed on a specific good or set of goods exported from or imported to a country, creating an economic barrier to trade. Usually the tactic is used when a country's domestic output of the good is falling and imports from foreign competitors are rising, particularly if the country has strategic reasons to retain a domestic production capability. Some failing industries receive a protection with an effect similar to subsidies; tariffs reduce the industry's incentives to produce goods quicker, cheaper, and more efficiently. The third reason for a tariff involves addressing the issue of dumping. Dumping involves a country producing highly excessive amounts of goods and \"dumping\" the goods on another country at prices that are \"too low\", for example, pricing the good lower in the export market than in the domestic market of the country of origin. In dumping the producer sells the product at a price that returns no profit, or even amounts to a loss. The purpose and expected outcome of a tariff is to encourage spending on domestic goods and services rather than imports.\n\nTariffs can create tension between countries. Examples include the United States steel tariff of 2002 and when China placed a 14% tariff on imported auto parts. Such tariffs usually lead to a complaint with the World Trade Organization (WTO). If that fails, the country may put a tariff of its own against the other nation in retaliation, and to increase pressure to remove the tariff.\n\nOwnership advantages are the firm's specific assets, international experience, and the ability to develop either low-cost or differentiated products within the contacts of its value chain. The locational advantages of a particular market are a combination of market potential and investment risk. Internationalization advantages are the benefits of retaining a core competence within the company and threading it though the value chain rather than to license, outsource, or sell it. \n\nIn relation to the eclectic paradigm, companies that have low levels of ownership advantages do not enter foreign markets. If the company and its products are equipped with \"ownership advantage\" and \"internalization advantage\", they enter through low-risk modes such as exporting. Exporting requires significantly lower level of investment than other modes of international expansion, such as FDI. The lower risk of export typically results in a lower rate of return on sales than possible though other modes of international business. In other words, the usual return on export sales may not be tremendous, but neither is the risk. Exporting allows managers to exercise operation control but does not provide them the option to exercise as much marketing control. An exporter usually resides far from the end consumer and often enlists various intermediaries to manage marketing activities. After two straight months of contraction, exports from India rose by 11.64% at $25.83 billion in July 2013 against $23.14 billion in the same month of the previous year.\n\nExporting has a number of drawbacks:\n\nFor small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with fewer than 250 employees, selling goods and services to foreign markets can be more difficult than serving the domestic market. The lack of knowledge of trade regulations, cultural differences, different languages and foreign-exchange situations, as well as the strain of resources and staff, interact like a block for exporting. Indeed, there are some SMEs which are exporting, but nearly two-thirds of them sell to only one foreign market.\n\nMotivational factors are \"all those factors triggering the decision of the firm to initiate and develop export activities\". In the literature, export barriers are divided into four large categories: motivational, informational, operational/resource-based, and knowledge. In addition, export motivators are divided into five dimensions; reactive, marketing,export, technological, external. Research shows that exporters are more favourable to motivators than non-exporters.\n\n"}
{"id": "8641988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8641988", "title": "Financial Mirror", "text": "Financial Mirror\n\nThe Financial Mirror is a weekly business newspaper in Cyprus. The main paper is published in English but a supplement in Greek (called Chrima & Agora, \"Xρήμα & Aγορά\") is also included.\n\nThe paper claims to have the most visited website in Cyprus.\n"}
{"id": "26215380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26215380", "title": "Francis M. Drexel School", "text": "Francis M. Drexel School\n\nThe Francis M. Drexel School was a historic school in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Located along Sixteenth Street, the school was designed by Joseph Anschutz and built under the direction of Charles O'Neill, Jr. The three-story brick building was built in a regular rectangular plan in the Victorian style of architecture, with three chimneys dominating its facade.\n\nThe school was named for Francis Martin Drexel, whose son, banker and philanthropist Anthony J. Drexel, founded Drexel University two years after the construction of the school.\n\nAt the time of the Drexel School's construction, Philadelphia's school system had a decentralized administration, with Drexel being a part of the Twenty-sixth Section. The school buildings, however, were designed by the central administration.\n\nThe Drexel family was intensely involved with education at this time. Anthony J. Drexel, as the partner of J.P. Morgan, was an internationally important financier, and as the partner of George W. Childs, publisher of the Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\", was influential in local affairs as well. He was a close friend of Childs, and together they worked to offer free or inexpensive education to the working class. According to Childs, Drexel gave \"many munificent gifts to established educational and charitable institutions,\" as well as founding and endowing the Drexel Institute, which later became Drexel University. Drexel's orphaned niece, Katherine Drexel, sought advice from Childs and Drexel on her plans to become a nun in the service of educating Native Americans and African-Americans. This work led to her beatification by Pope John II. Two other nieces, Elizabeth Drexel Smith and Louise Drexel Morrell, founded and endowed the St. Francis Industrial School at Eddington, Pennsylvania in 1888. The George W. Childs School, also designed by Anschutz, was built in 1894 just three blocks north of the Francis M. Drexel School.\n\nCompleted in 1889, the Drexel School included features common to late nineteenth-century Philadelphia schools. Earlier schools were generally built entirely of brick, and the 1870s saw the introduction of stone schools, but schools built between 1883 and 1900, including Drexel, typically combined brick walls and brownstone finishing.\n\nAnschutz worked in the tradition of Samuel Sloan's \"Philadelphia Plan\" of school architecture: On each floor, classrooms opened onto a single corridor, and were divided by moveable partitions. Coatrooms were provided in each classroom. Stairways and other non-classroom space were located at the end of the corridor, near the outside of the building. The architectural plans closely follow these principles. The school's windows were enlarged in 1914, and in 1922, lighting was changed from gas to electric.\n\nAlthough it originally housed classes for both elementary and secondary students, Drexel was built at a time when school boards were beginning to open separate schools for different purposes. It remained in use by the Philadelphia Public Schools into the late twentieth century.\n\nIn 1986, the Francis Drexel School was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in recognition of its architectural significance. While many Philadelphia schools had been modeled on the Drexel School in the late nineteenth century, most had been destroyed or significantly remodeled; only Drexel and two other schools remained in a condition similar to that of their original construction. Fifty-two other Philadelphia schools, including five designed by Anschutz, were added to the Register on the same day as part of the Philadelphia Public Schools multiple property submission.\n\nThe Drexel School was demolished in February, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "25565464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25565464", "title": "Grubb Family Iron Dynasty", "text": "Grubb Family Iron Dynasty\n\nThe Grubb Family Iron Dynasty was a succession of iron manufacturing enterprises owned and operated by Grubb family members for more than 165 years. Collectively, they were Pennsylvania's leading iron manufacturer between 1840 and 1870.\n\nAbout 1737, Peter Grubb entered the iron business after discovering the vast and rich Cornwall Iron Mines (Cornwall Banks) in Lebanon County, about 21 miles north of Lancaster. Peter and the next five generations of his descendants operated and expanded the business until they owned or operated in close association with at least 18 iron production operations and several thousand acres of property in eastern Pennsylvania.\n\nGrubb's heirs sold most of the original properties between 1786 and 1803 to Robert Coleman, who became Pennsylvania's first millionaire and whose operations were continued through the 19th century by his heirs. Beginning in 1800, the heirs of Curtis' brother Peter Grubb, Jr. rebuilt their business on the minority interest they retained, primarily in the Cornwall Iron Mines, and operated for nearly 100 years out of Mount Hope. The Grubb and Coleman families were competitors, but also partners due to their shared interests in the ore fields.\n\nBoth families' operations bowed to the advances of iron and steel technology in the latter part of the 19th century and were gradually sold between 1883 and 1926. Many of the Grubb holdings and the Cornwall Iron Mines were sold in 1902 to the Pennsylvania Steel Company (which was itself acquired by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in 1916). The remaining Coleman holdings and the related Robesonia Iron Company were also sold to Bethlehem Steel, in 1919 and 1926 respectively. Bethlehem Steel continued to mine iron ore at Cornwall until 1973.\n\nIn 1677, John Grubb came from Cornwall, U.K., and settled in Brandywine Hundred, Delaware, where he established a tannery. His son Peter launched iron operations that eventually linked six generations of people, including:\n\nCornwall, Pennsylvania, was the center of the early Grubb Family Iron Dynasty in the 18th century. It later served a similar role for the Coleman Family operations.\n\nThe Grubb family enterprises began when Peter Grubb, a stonemason by training, discovered at Cornwall, Pennsylvania between 1734 and 1737, what proved to be the largest domestic iron ore deposit east of Lake Superior. Grubb purchased 1,000 acres of iron-rich property and began manufacturing activities at the Cornwall Iron Furnace and Hopewell Forges in 1742. The business thrived at Cornwall, operating until 1765 under lease by a group of businessmen named Cury & Company, while Grubb removed to Wilmington, Delaware, where he lived out his life.\n\nPeter's sons Curtis Grubb and Peter Grubb, Jr. inherited the iron works after their father died in 1754, and took over operation in 1765. The ironmaster brothers were both Patriots of the American Revolution and Colonels of local militia; their iron works developed and supplied significant quantities of cannon and other munitions to the war effort. With the heavy demand for iron products and the accompanying inflation during the war, the brothers (and other ironmasters) realized handsome profits in the service of their new country. Curtis added the Union Forge to the holdings about 1782. They continued to operate the iron works, producing several hundred tons annually, Curtis at the Cornwall Furnace and Peter at the Hopewell Forges, until they died, Peter Jr. in 1786 and Curtis in 1789. Their residential mansions at both locations still stand today.\n\nThe Grubb brothers unfortunately had a serious falling out beginning in 1783, when Curtis' pending remarriage spawned inheritance anxieties by his oldest son Peter III, 26, who had been a Captain of the Continental Army and a prisoner of war. Curtis acquiesced and decided to give his son his inheritance before the wedding, which subsequently required the courts to formally partition the family operations and allocate ownership shares among Curtis, Peter Jr., and Peter III.\n\nPeter Jr. retained a 2/3 interest in the Hopewell Forges but only a 1/3 interest in the rest of the holdings (Cornwall Furnace and Ore Banks, and Union Forge). Peter III received the remaining 1/3 interest in the Hopewell Forges, plus a 1/6 interest in the rest. Peter Jr. feared for the future supply of raw pig iron to his Hopewell Forges that was to become his legacy to his sons, so he decided to build his own furnace at a place south of Cornwall he called Mount Hope, where he had purchased 212 acres. The brothers were now in competition and their relations became increasingly acrimonious. Peter III grew concerned for the business and sold his holdings (1/3 share of the Hopewell Forges and 1/6 share of the rest) to a family friend, Robert Coleman, on September 26, 1785, for 8,500 pounds of gold. All of this weighed heavily on Peter Jr., who had gone deeply into debt to build his furnace; the pressures of competing family operations, and his own poor health, led him to take his own life at Hopewell on January 17, 1786.\n\nAfter Curtis' subsequent passing in 1789, none of his heirs were willing or able to manage the operations and there were complex family inheritance and legal issues still to be resolved by the courts. Robert Coleman had worked for the brothers and was in a position to step in as the family became increasingly unable to manage the business. As a result, in 1895 Curtis' remaining heirs sold their 3/6 interest to Coleman, and by 1803 he had acquired the Hopewell Forges and 5/6 of the rest of the original properties. A successful ironmaster and businessman in his own right, Coleman took over the Cornwall operations, acquired other properties, and went on to become Pennsylvania's first millionaire.\n\nIt was fortunate for Peter Jr.'s heirs that he decided to begin iron-making operations at Mount Hope. Since the Colemans were now operating out of Cornwall, Mount Hope was destined to become the headquarters of a new and much larger Grubb family iron business.\n\nMount Hope Estate was the headquarters of the Grubb Family iron manufacturing operations during the 19th Century.\n\nHenry Bates Grubb, building on his father's legacy, founded the 19th-century Grubb family iron empire.\n\nHenry was the youngest of Peter Jr.'s two sons who inherited their father's estate in 1786, well before they came of age. The estate included 3,741 acres of iron-rich Cornwall land, 2/3 interest in the Hopewell Forges, plus 221 acres and their father's new furnace at Mount Hope. Henry, unlike his older brother Alan, was quite interested in the iron business and had several competent advisers whom the brothers had selected as guardians of their estate. He purchased his brother's share in 1798, to be paid over time, and began to rebuild the business, apparently with the cooperation of Robert Coleman. Henry was barely seventeen when he began a series of transactions to rebuild the family iron business, acquiring several properties. The combined operations grew to become one of the largest iron producers in Pennsylvania during the 19th century.\n\nHenry's holdings grew to include at least three iron manufacturing operations, over 6,500 acres of land and a 1/6 interest in the Cornwall ore banks, all managed from Mount Hope. He died in 1823, leaving his widow Harriet Amelia Buckley Grubb to oversee the operations until their sons began to come of age in 1830.\n\nHenry's three sons (Edward Burd Grubb, Clement Brooke Grubb and Alfred Bates Grubb) took over the family business when they came of age beginning in 1830. They greatly expanded the family's operations to become Pennsylvania's leading iron producers from 1840 to 1870, with their headquarters at Mount Hope Estate.\n\nEdward was sent to Europe in 1830 to study the latest iron technology, apparently a worthwhile family investment in the future growth of the business. In 1833 Edward and Clement assumed control of the business under the name E. & C.B. Alfred's involvement probably began when he came of age in 1839.\n\nClement apparently decided to strike out on his own, as he resigned from E. & C.B in 1845 and sold his half interest in the Mount Hope Estate to his younger brother Alfred for $25,000. He moved to Lancaster, where he built a large Greek Revival mansion that is now the Lancaster Museum of Art. About the same time Edward removed with his family to Burlington, NJ, where he became a prominent citizen of that area.\n\nAlfred was left to manage the Mount Hope Estate and Furnace, in partnership with Edward and his heirs, which he continued until at least 1873. After his death in 1885, the Mount Hope Estate was sold back to Clement for $300,000.\n\nClement acquired several operations at other locations, including two newer-technology anthracite furnaces near Columbia, PA, along the Susquehanna River.\n\nEdward and his sons were also active in the iron business during this period. E. Burd entered the business after his Civil War service, and C. Ross entered into a relationship with the Haldeman iron manufacturing family.\n\nGrubb family members owned and/or operated eleven iron manufacturing operations after the Civil War, when iron was in great demand to meet the needs of an expanding country. Old plants were acquired or upgraded and a new one was built. The Cornwall ore banks continued to supply large quantities of ore to both the iron and newer steel industries. But the expansion of ironworks proved to be short-lived, as the transition to steel production was on the horizon.\n\nThe charcoal- and anthracite-based iron manufacturing business rather quickly succumbed to newer technology and the transition to the steel industry that located further west. The ten Grubb family furnaces and mines listed above were shut down over just a 25-year period. Daisy Grubb sold some of her inherited industrial holdings and C. Ross Grubb, as President of the Cornwall Ore Bank Company, sold the Cornwall Iron Mines, both in 1902, to the Pennsylvania Steel Company (later acquired by Bethlehem Steel Company in February, 1916). E. Burd Grubb continued to operate the Lebanon Valley Furnace until about 1911. The dispositions of the other Grubb properties have not been determined, but may have also been acquired by Pennsylvania Steel.\n\nThe final fifth-generation members of the Grubb Family Iron Dynasty generally went into well-funded retirements. Of Clement's heirs, Charles Brooke Grubb died a batchelor at his Lancaster home in 1911; Ella Jane (Grubb) Smith died in 1920; Daisy Grubb renovated the Mount Hope Estate and may have died there in 1936. Of Edward Burd Grubb's heirs, Gen. E. Burd Grubb ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1908, lost his fortune in a bad investment, and died in Newark in 1913; Henry Bates Grubb died in Burlington in 1919; C. Ross Grubb owned a chateau in Normandy, a villa on the Riviera, and an estate at Manada where he died in 1928. Sixth-generation Parker Ross Grubb died at 45 while golfing in Switzerland in 1920.\n\nThe Cornwall Iron Mines, that had been the source of the family's wealth, continued in production under Bethlehem Steel until operations were ended by a 1973 flood resulting from\nHurricane Agnes; it had been mined continuously for 234 years.\n\nDaisy Elizabeth Brooke Grubb was Clement Grubb's youngest child. Never married, she inherited holdings worth $6 million from her father in 1889 and became a wealthy Lancaster spinster and socialite who lived at Mount Hope Estate and at her father's mansion in downtown Lancaster; she also had a town home in Philadelphia. In 1902, she sold most of her inherited industrial holdings to Pennsylvania Steel Company. In 1895, she began renovating her 12-room Federal-style Mount Hope mansion, enlarging it into a 32-room Victorian mansion where she entertained extensively. She retained the formal gardens established by her grandfather. Grubb was the last family member to live at Mount Hope, where she may have died in 1936. The estate is now privately owned and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Her will left a trust fund to the Hope Episcopal Church, which was built by her grandmother, and the rest to descendants of her sisters.\n\nThe following properties were owned and operated over time by members of the Grubb family, or were closely associated with their operations. Presented in the approximate order of their appearance in the family dynasty. The early furnaces were charcoal-fired, and so were located on or near large tracts of hardwood forests that supplied the charcoal. Later furnaces (after about 1845) were fired by anthracite coal and/or coke, and were located near waterways or railroads that could transport the coal-based fuel mined elsewhere. Forges transformed the pig iron, produced by the furnaces, into final products.\n\nThe Cornwall Iron Mines in Lebanon County, also known as the Cornwall Ore Banks, were the foundation of the Grubb Family Iron Dynasty. Discovered by Peter Grubb, who had acquired 1,000 acres by 1737, they proved to be the largest domestic iron ore deposit east of Lake Superior, and were once the largest open pit iron mine in the world. The ore was primarily magnetite. While the majority interest in the mines were gradually acquired by Robert Coleman by 1803, the descendants of Peter Grubb, Jr. retained a 1/6 interest as tenants in common.\n\nThe Cornwall Ore Bank Company was formed in 1864 to operate the mines for the benefit of the owners - by then numbering 96! The company operated the mines until they were sold in 1902 to the Pennsylvania Steel Company, which was later acquired by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation) in February, 1916.\n\nThere was also an open pit mine sold to Bethlehem Steel by the Coleman heirs in 1919.\n\nThe mines produced high quality iron ore and other valuable minerals for 234 years, growing to over a million tons per year, until they were flooded by Hurricane Agnes and then closed permanently in 1973.\n\nLifespan = 1737–1973, 234 years; 1737–1902, 165 years full or partial ownership by Grubb family\nProduction = 776,000 tons by 1848, 358,000 tons/year in 1940, 1.1 million tons/year later.\nAcreage = 1,000 acres in 1737. 10,261 acres in 1786 (6,520 owned by Curtis Grubb & Robert Coleman, 3,741 by Peter Grubb, Jr.'s heirs)\n\nThe Cornwall Furnace in Lebanon County was built by Peter Grubb in 1742 to process ore from his nearby Cornwall Iron Mines and supply pig iron to his Hopewell Forges. A cold blast charcoal fired furnace, it had a reported output capacity of 32 tons per week and supplied pig iron to six local and Philadelphia forges. After Cury & Co.'s 20-year lease expired about 1765, the furnace was jointly owned by Peter's sons Curtis and Peter Jr. Curtis, the majority partner, operated the furnace and Peter ran the Hopewell Forges. The brothers were enthusiastic Patriots and their iron works supplied cannon and other munitions to the Revolutionary War effort during their ownership, which ended with Curtis' death in 1789.\n\nCurtis Grubb's heirs found themselves unable or unwilling to operate the business and in 1795 they sold their interests to Robert Coleman, who had already acquired a partial interest in the business and had been managing it for them. Coleman and his heirs operated Cornwall Furnace, with various improvements over the years, until it was closed down in 1883. It has been preserved in excellent condition and the property was deeded to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1932 by the Coleman heirs. Cornwall Furnace is now open to the public and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nLifespan = 1742–1883, 141 years; 1742–1802, 60 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Charcoal cold blast\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = 32 ton/wk (max 1,600 ton/year)\nAcreage = 80 acres in 1744\nTransportation = Wagons, Union Canal & N. Lebanon Plank Road (c1820-1886), Cornwall RR (1855 -)\n\nThe Hopewell Forges on Hammer Creek (not to be confused with the Hopewell Furnace National Historic Site), were part of the original Grubb iron works, built by Peter Grubb (the elder) in 1742 to turn pig iron from Cornwall Furnace into final iron products. After 1765, Peter's sons Curtis and Peter Jr. assumed joint ownership of their father's holdings, including the forges. Peter Jr., the minority partner, lived nearby and operated the forges until his death in 1786. See \n\nThe forges, however, became central to a Grubb family tragedy and other unintended consequences. In 1783, Curtis' son Peter III had been given an interest in the family iron works by his father as an advance inheritance. The courts then had to determine how best to partition the overall assets. Peter III was given a 1/6 interest in the ore fields and a 1/3 interest in the forges, making him partners with his uncle Peter. Neither were happy with the arrangement and in 1785 Peter III sold his share of the forges (and the ore fields) to Robert Coleman, who thus became Peter Jr.'s partner. Peter Jr. became even more concerned for his business situation, especially for the supply of pig iron from his brother's Cornwall Furnace, and decided to build his own furnace at Mount Hope. He went deeply into debt and the pressures of the situation led him to commit suicide at Hopewell in 1786.\n\nThese events related to the forges had another unintended consequence. As part of the sale to Coleman, Peter III reserved for himself and his heirs the perpetual right to remove sufficient ore from Cornwall Iron Mines to supply one furnace. This clause, particularly the definition of \"one furnace,\" became an unsettled issue in the courts for nearly 100 years. See \"Robesonia Iron Company\" below.\n\nColeman acquired the remaining interest in the Hopewell Forges in 1802, from Henry Bates Grubb. The property was among those left by Coleman to his four sons upon his death in 1825. While it is unclear when Hopewell ceased operations, it produced 250 tons in 1833, but probably closed before 1854 when Coleman's Speedwell Forge, also on Hammer Creek, was shut down. There is little left of the forges today except a few remnants of the dams at the creek, but Peter Grubb's mansion and historic marker can still be seen on present-day Route 322.\n\nLifespan = 1742 – c. 1850, 108 years; 1742–1802, 60 years in Grubb family\nPig iron source = Cornwall Furnace\nProduction = 250 ton/year in 1833\nAcreage = n/a\n\nUnion Forge was constructed by Curtis Grubb about 1782, near present-day Jonestown, PA, about 12 miles north of Cornwall Furnace. Curtis built the forge to process pig iron from Cornwall Furnace. Included were 1,000 acres of land, blacksmith and carpenter shops, a grist mill, and several houses. The forge continued in operation, under various owners, until 1868, when rolling mills had begun to displace forges as refiners of iron. Union Forge was initially held in common with the rest of the ironworks, and was included in the 1786 partition of the Grubb properties. While unclear, it probably remained a Curtis Grubb operation until his heirs sold to Robert Coleman in 1895. The has been placed at the site of the forge.\n\nLifespan = 1782–1868, 86 years; 1782–1795, 13 years in Grubb family\nPig iron source = Cornwall Furnace\nProduction = Not determined\nAcreage = 1,000\n\nThe charcoal-fired Mount Hope Furnace was built in 1785 by Peter Grubb, Jr., on 212 acres of land he purchased from Jacob Graybill in 1784, in Manheim Township about five miles north of Lancaster. There was already an operating gristmill on the property. Peter went deeply into debt to build the furnace because he feared for the future supply of pig iron for his Hopewell Forges from his brother's Cornwall Furnace, in which Peter had only a minority interest. Peter yielded to the business pressures he found himself under and took his own life at Hopewell in 1786. His sons Alan Burd Grubb and Henry Bates Grubb inherited the furnace, which became a core asset of the future Grubb iron business. The furnace produced 1,000 tons of pig iron in 1833. The furnace was upgraded to hot blast and apparently continued in operation until at least 1885, when it was sold by Alfred Bates Grubb's estate, along with nearly 2,500 acres of land (the Mount Hope Estate), back to his brother Clement Brooke Grubb (who had sold his share to Alfred in 1845) for $300,000.\n\nLifespan = 1785 – c. 1885, 100 years, all in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Charcoal cold blast\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = 1,000 ton/year in 1833\nAcreage = 212 in 1785; 2,500 in 1885\n\nThe Mount Hope Estate was the enclave near Manheim that was home and headquarters of the Grubb family iron enterprises after 1800. It grew from Peter Grubb Jr.'s original 212 acres in 1786, home to the Mount Hope Furnace and gristmill, to over 2,500 acres and many buildings by 1885. The original Federal style mansion was built by Peter's son, Henry Bates Grubb, between 1800 and 1805; it was the most formal ironmaster's mansion in the area up to 1850, and featured formal gardens that are still maintained. The enclave at its peak contained nearly 30 outbuildings (including the Hope Church, built in 1848-9), most constructed of locally quarried red sandstone and enclosed by a wall of the same material.\n\nHenry B. Grubb, who had inherited Mount Hope from his father at age 12, passed it on to his two older sons, Edward Burd Grubb and Clement Brooke Grubb, upon his death in 1823. The Estate was managed by Henry's widow, Harriet Amelia Buckley Grubb, until the sons came of age. The brothers partnered to operate the business in 1833, under the name E. & C.B. In 1845 Clement sold his half interest to their younger brother Alfred Bates Grubb for $25,000. After Alfred's death in 1885, his heirs sold Mount Hope Estate back to Clement for $300,000, in the most expensive real estate transaction in Lancaster up to that time.\n\nThe last family member to live at Mount Hope was Clement's daughter Daisy Elizabeth Brooke Grubb, who inherited it from her father along with holdings worth six million dollars. In 1895 she began an extensive renovation and transformed the original 12-room structure into a 32-room Victorian mansion where she entertained many distinguished guests. Daisy lived at Mount Hope at least part of the time until she died in 1936.\n\nThe property was subdivided and mostly sold off by the subsequent owners, but the mansion and some surrounding land was bought by Charles Romito for a winery in 1980 and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nLifespan = c1805-1936, 131 years in Grubb family, mansion still in use\nProduction = N/A\nAcreage = 2,500 (including furnace) in 1885\n\nThe Mount Vernon Furnace was the first furnace built by Henry Bates Grubb, in 1800 by most references. A charcoal-fired furnace, it was located near Elizabethtown on Conewago Creek, about 15 miles southwest of Mount Hope. It produced 50 tons of pig iron per week (2,500 tons per year) from Cornwall ore. The property was expanded to over 4,000 acres, and there were also a forge, a gristmill, and a sawmill. After Henry's death in 1823, the operations were continued by his sons Edward Burd Grubb and Charles Bates Grubb, and Edward built a second furnace by the same name in 1831. The iron furnaces fell out of production and were abandoned in 1852.\n\nThe sawmill is still in operation today and the gristmill carried on until 1913. The gristmill was still owned by Grubb & Company in 1875. Its ruins can be seen on the property of the beautiful and historic Conewago Manor Inn and the sawmill can be seen nearby. The original inn was built by Samuel Smith sometime after 1739; Henry Bates Grubb added the majestic stonework structure in 1811 and named it Mount Vernon Estate.\n\nThe Grubb's Mount Vernon Furnace is not to be confused with the similarly named furnace in Fayette County in western Pennsylvania.\n\nLifespan = 1800–1852, 52 years, all in Grubb family \nFurnace type = Two charcoal cold blast\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = 50 ton/wk (max 2,500 ton/year)\nAcreage = 4,000\n\nThe Codorus Forge was the new name given to the Hellam Forge that Henry Bates Grubb bought from Thomas Neill in 1802. The forge was located in York County, near the intersection of Codorus Creek with the Susquehanna River, about 30 miles southwest of Mount Hope.\n\nThe forge, which had passed through several owners, was originally built around 1765 by William Bennett on 150 acres obtained from William Penn. The forge processed pig iron produced at nearby Mary Ann Furnace, and had supplied cannon and shot to the Continental Army, probably under the ownership of James Smith, a signer of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nHenry Grubb operated the forge until he hired John Shippen, who managed it from 1818 until 1825. Henry's widow, Harriet Amelia Buckley Grubb, oversaw its operation until their oldest sons, Edward Burd Grubb and Clement Brooke Grubb, came of age. The sons inherited the forge and began operating it in 1833 under their partnership E. & C.B. They added the about 1837, transporting ore from their Chestnut Hills Mines by flat boat across the Susquehanna River. The iron products were shipped downriver to Philadelphia and Baltimore. The furnace and forge were closed sometime in the 1850s.\n\nAn iron ore deposit, known as Grubb's Bank (see below), was discovered on the Codorus property in 1866, well after the forge and furnace were closed down. The ore was shipped by river to the St. Charles Furnace in Columbia.\n\nLifespan = 1765 – c. 1855, 90 years; 1802 – c. 1855, 53 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Charcoal cold blast\nOre source = Chestnut Hills Mines\nProduction = 400 tons/year (forge)\nAcreage = 150\n\nIn 1803 Henry Bates Grubb purchased land from Gen. Timothy Green, on Manada Creek in the northwest part of East Hanover Township in Dauphin County, about 60 miles east of Mount Hope. Manada Furnace was built in 1836 by Henry's sons Clement B. & Edward B. Grubb, at Sand Beach near the site of the old Manada Fort. Embracing some 2,500 acres, Manada Furnace was the only charcoal furnace in Dauphin County in 1856, a year after the brothers' partnership ended.\n\nThe ore came from the Grubb's Chestnut Hill mine or from the Cornwall mines via the Union Canal to Lebanon. From there it was brought by wagon to the furnace. Water power from Manada Creek turned a wheel which operated the bellows that pumped air into the furnace. The water wheel was probably on the northeast corner of the furnace. A bridge from a hill led to the top of the furnace. Men dumped wheelbarrow loads of charcoal, limestone and iron ore into the top. The furnace produced pig iron and also did some casting of products. From 1837 to 1848 the furnace produced over 22,000 tons of iron. The metal was sent to the Swatara railroad station for transport.\n\nThe community surrounding the furnace consisted of a general store, the iron master's house, a smoke house, boarding house, and twenty two log cabins. The church is still in existence as the United Christian Episcopal Manada Furnace Church. At the peak of operations, the furnace employed 75 men. Two hundred acres were used for farming for the families of furnace workers. In September 1861 the furnace workers formed the 46th Regiment, D Company to fight in the Civil War. The company was disbanded on July 16, 1865. During the Civil War, the owners of Manada Furnace were able to use Confederate prisoners from Camp Curtin to work as woodcutters and laborers. Many are buried at \n\nManada Furnace was closed in 1875.\n\nLifespan = 1836–1875, 39 years, all in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Charcoal hot blast\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines and/or Chestnut Hill Mines\nProduction = 2,000 ton/year (1837–1848)\nAcreage = 2,500\n\nA partnership formed in 1833 by Henry's sons Edward Burd Grubb and Clement Brooke Grubb to run the family business from Mount Hope Estate. The partnership continued until 1845 when Clement sold his share to his younger brother Alfred Bates Grubb. By then, Edward had removed to Burlington, NJ and Clement to Lancaster, PA. The companies and properties listed below involved only Clement and Edward and their heirs, as Alfred's did not join the family iron business.\n\nA partnership formed in 1845 between Henry's sons Edward Burd Grubb, Sr. and Alfred Bates Grubb to manage Mt. Hope Estate and Furnace after their brother Clement ended his partnership with Edward. After Edward's death in 1867, Alfred carried on, with Edward's heirs, until 1873.\n\nThe Chestnut Hill Ore Bank, acquired by Clement Brooke Grubb by 1851, was about eight miles west of Lancaster, at Silver Spring near Columbia. The several ore properties at Chestnut Hill, which adjoin each other, were, when taken as a whole, one of the largest hematite ore deposits in Pennsylvania. Ore was first discovered on the Greider farm, between 1825 and 1832, by the engineer Simeon Guilford. Most of the furnaces in and around Columbia and Chickies depended on these mines for their principal supply of ore.\n\nThe Grubb tract, about 13 acres, was developed by Jerome Boyer around 1839 and acquired and further developed by Clement Brooke Grubb sometime prior to 1851, when the Chestnut Hill Iron Ore Company was incorporated. Various tracts at Chestnut Hill were owned, in 1869, by Clement Brooke Grubb, heirs of his brother Edward Burd Grubb, Sr., the Chestnut Hill Iron Ore Company, the Silver Spring Iron Ore Company, and other owners of small outcroppings. In 1904, the property was owned by Clement's son, Charles Brooke Grubb. The ore bank supplied thousands of tons of iron ore to the Grubb's Codorus and Manada furnaces and to other nearby anthracite furnaces, such as the St. Charles Furnaces, until 1907.\n\nThe ore pit, about 13 acres and 110 feet deep, has since filled with water, creating , part of a modern-day 54 acre recreational area in Silver Spring, Pennsylvania.\n\nLifespan = 1839 – c. 1907, 68 years; 1851–1907, 56 years in Grubb family\nProduction = Estimated 20,000 tons/year 1832–1876\nAcreage = 13\n\nThe Grubb Family Papers, 1814–1869, mention a Columbia Furnace 1853 - 1860. These sources have not been reviewed and no other references to a furnace by that name have been found. They likely relate to the Grubb-owned St. Charles Furnace in Columbia.\n\nClement Brooke Grubb built the in 1854, at Columbia near the Susquehanna River about 12 miles west of Lancaster, on the Pennsylvania Railroad. Years later, in 1875, Grubb and his son Charles bought the Henry Clay Furnace, about a mile upriver, and renamed it St. Charles No. 2. Both furnaces were fired by anthracite coal. Together, these two furnaces had an annual capacity of over 20,000 tons of pig iron, which was well known for its quality for boiler plate, bars, nails and foundry work. In 1863 Grubb built a large iron ore roaster, the first of its kind in Lancaster County, to remove sulfur from the local ores used in the furnaces. The St Charles Furnace was remodeled in 1879–80, but only six years later in 1886 it went out of blast for the last time. It was dismantled in 1897; some remains can be seen from the Route 30 bridge.\n\nLifespan = 1854 – c. 1886, 32 years, all in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite hot blast\nOre source = Local ore & Codorus Iron Mine\nProduction = Estimated 10,000 ton/year\nAcreage = N/A\nTransportation = Pennsylvania Canal, Pennsylvania RR\n\nC.B. Grubb and Son was a partnership formed about 1872 between Clement Brooke Grubb and his son Charles Brooke Grubb. It presumably endured until Clement's death in 1889. The partnership owned both St. Charles Furnaces and the Codorus Iron Mine, also known as Grubb's Bank. They likely also had an interest in the Chestnut Hill Ore Banks, since they were owned by Charles in 1904.\n\nIn 1875 C.B. Grubb and Son (Clement and Charles) bought the , located about a mile up the Susquehanna River from Clement's St. Charles Furnace, on the Pennsylvania Canal and the Pennsylvania Railroad. They renamed it St. Charles No. 2.\n\nThe Henry Clay furnace was one of the first of the anthracite-fired furnaces along the Susquehanna between Columbia and Marietta. It was built in 1845 by Peter Haldeman, but changed hands several times after 1855, producing only sporadically until 1865 when, after a long period of idleness it was blown in again under the proprietorship of the firm Denney and Hess. In 1875 Clement and Charles purchased and renamed it St. Charles Furnace No. 2. Together, the two St. Charles furnaces had an annual capacity of over 20,000 tons of pig iron. The furnace was remodeled in 1879, 1880 and again in 1887, but its production declined and it was abandoned in 1889. Ruins of the onsite tenement building can still be seen today.\n\nLifespan = 1845 – c. 1889, 44 years; 1875–1889, 14 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite hot blast\nOre source = Local ore & Codorus Iron Mine\nProduction = Estimated 10,000 ton/year\nAcreage = N/A\nTransportation = Pennsylvania Canal (1845 -), Pennsylvania RR (1850 -)\n\nThe Codorus Iron Mine, better known in later years as Grubb's Bank, was discovered on the Codorus property in 1866. The owner in 1874 was C. B. Grubb and Son. Since the Codorus Furnace was by then shut down, the ore was hauled to the Susquehanna River and floated to the St. Charles Furnaces in Columbia. The mine, less than an acre in size, contained ore consisting of a mixture of magnetite and hematite in sandstone. About 25,000 tons were removed by 1874, with seven men typically working to take about 25 tons per day.\n\nLifespan = 1866 – c. 1874, 8 years, all in Grubb family\nProduction = Estimated 3,000 ton/year\nAcreage = One\nTransportation = Susquehanna River\n\nThe Haldeman family were prominent iron manufacturers in the Chickies area in Lancaster County. The Grubbs and Haldemans formed several business relationships, beginning in 1869, to own and operate three anthracite furnaces.\n\nIn 1869, heirs of Edward B. Grubb Sr. joined the firm of E. Haldeman & Company, after its founder retired. Those heirs apparently were Henry Bates Grubb and his brother C. Ross Grubb, both of whom became officers in other Grubb/Haldeman companies. C. Ross Grubb had purchased the Eagle Furnace, and the Chickies Iron Company was formed in 1876.\n\nBy 1882, Paris Haldeman, Henry Bates Grubb, and Horace Haldeman had formed the Conewago Iron Company, owners of the Conewago Furnace in Dauphin County. This relationship continued until at least 1892, by which time C. Ross Grubb had succeeded Paris Haldeman as President. The furnace under their ownership supplied the Chickies Iron Company exclusively, but went out of blast in 1888.\n\nIn 1888, the firm of Haldeman, Grubb & Company was formed as a partnership, between Paris Haldeman, C. Ross Grubb, and Horace L. Haldeman. Horace was the managing partner, and Paris retired in 1891. The firm owned Chickies Furnace #1 (formerly the Chickies Furnace, that had been built and owned by the Haldemans) and Chickies Furnace #2 (previously the Eagle Furnace, that had been acquired by Grubb in 1869).\n\nThe anthracite-fired (later renamed Chickies Furnace #2), was built in 1854 on the floodplain between Marietta and Columbia just north of Chickies Creek by Stephen Eagle. Eagle operated the furnace until 1869, when it was purchased by C. Ross Grubb, son and heir of Edward Burd Grubb, Sr. and brother of E. Burd Grubb, Jr. He later became associated with E. Haldeman and Company, who owned and operated the Chickies Furnace. The Haldeman company managed the furnace, remodeled it several times and changed the name to Chickies #2. Haldeman, Grubb & Co. was formed in 1888 to take ownership of Chickies #2 and the nearby Chickies #1. The principal ores used at both Chickies furnaces were obtained from the Grubb and Haldeman's Chestnut Hill ore mines at Silver Springs, some six miles from the furnaces, and from Cornwall, Lebanon County. In the late 1880s the furnace was extensively rebuilt, a two-story engine house was added, and the furnace operated successfully until it was shut down in 1899. Remnants of the furnace, including the still-occupied engine house, can be seen today.\n\nLifespan = 1854 – c. 1899, 45 years; 1869–1899, 30 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite hot blast\nOre source = Chestnut Hill & Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = Not determined\nAcreage = N/A\nTransportation = Rail\n\nThe Conewago Furnace, formerly the Middletown Furnace, was in Middletown, Dauphin County. The furnace, built in 1853 and rebuilt in 1879, was owned in 1882 by the Conewago Iron Company, a Grubb and Haldeman partnership. Paris Haldeman was President, Henry Bates Grubb was Vice-President, and Horace Haldeman was Treasurer. It was fueled by anthracite and coke, and the ores were from Cornwall and Chestnut Hill. The product was \"Chickies\" pig iron, made exclusively by contract for the Chickies Iron Company. The Conewago Furnace went out of blast in 1888.\n\nLifespan = 1853–1888, 35 years; c1882-1888, c6 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite and coke hot blast\nOre source = Chestnut Hill & Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = Not determined\nAcreage = N/A\n\nHenry Haldeman built the first near the base of Chickies Rock, in Lancaster County, in 1845. Haldeman's sons Edwin and Samuel took over his business holdings later that same year and brought the anthracite-fired furnace into blast in 1846. The furnace was rarely out of blast and with several remodellings to implement technological advancements, it produced 17,000 tons of pig iron per year by the late 19th century. In 1888, Paris and Horace Haldeman partnered with C. Ross Grubb, who owned the nearby Eagle Furnace, to form Haldeman, Grubb and Company. They renamed the furnace Chickies #1 and renamed Eagle Furnace Chickies #2; operating both furnaces until they were shut down in 1899. The principal ores used at the Chickies furnaces were obtained from the Grubb and Haldeman's Chestnut Hill ore mines at Silver Springs, some six miles from the furnaces, and from Cornwall, Lebanon County.\n\nLifespan = 1845 – c. 1899, 54 years; 1888–1889, 11 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite hot blast\nOre source = Chestnut Hill & Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = 17,000 ton/year\nAcreage = N/A\nTransportation = Rail\n\nThe Lebanon Valley Furnace Company was formed in 1865 by Edward Burd Grubb, Sr. as the first president. His eldest son, Gen. E. Burd Grubb, Jr., became president after his father's death in 1867. In 1902 the company formally acquired, from Gen. Grubb, both the Lebanon Valley Furnace and his interest in the Cornwall Iron Mines. The company still owned and operated the furnace in 1907.\n\nE. Burd Grubb may have been the last Grubb family member to retire from the iron business, probably in 1911 when he lost his fortune in a bad investment.\n\nThe Lebanon Valley Furnace, in Lebanon, PA, was built in 1865-7, probably by the Lebanon Valley Furnace Company, who formally acquired it from Gen. E. Burd Grubb in 1902. Gen. E. Burd Grubb had become the owner when his father died, shortly before the furnace was blown for the first time in 1867. The furnace was a modern anthracite- and coke-fired furnace that was remodeled in 1884 and rebuilt in 1904, producing an output of pig iron, under the \"Lebanon Valley\" brand, of 24,000 tons per year. It was still active in 1907 and most likely continued under Grubb's control until 1911.\n\nLifespan = 1867-unk; 1867 – c. 1911, 44 years in Grubb family\nFurnace type = Anthracite and coke, hot blast\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = Estimated 24,000 ton/year\nAcreage = N/A\nTransportation = Probably rail\n\nThe Grubbs were minority partners in the Cornwall Ore Bank Company, as they continued to hold a 1/6 interest in the ore banks. The company was formed in 1864 to operate the Cornwall mines for the benefit of the owners - by then numbering 96 tenants in common! The company operated the mines until they were sold in 1902 to the Pennsylvania Steel Company, which was itself acquired by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in February, 1916. The President of the Cornwall Ore Bank Company when the mines were sold was C. Ross Grubb, representing the Grubb family's fifth generation in the iron business.\n\nWhile not formally a Grubb property, the charcoal-fired was owned by Clement Grubb's son-in-law, L. Heber Smith, a Civil War Colonel who married Clement's daughter Ella Jane Brooke Grubb in 1868. Located in Berks County, the furnace was built in 1792 and named for Joanna Potts, wife of the principal owner. It passed through several hands before Smith took ownership, probably after the war and before his marriage to Ella Jane. It is not unreasonable to assume that the Grubbs assisted with the furnace's major technological upgrade in 1889, especially since Ella Jane would have been an heiress to her father's sizable estate that year. The furnace continued in operation under Smith until it was \"blown out\" after his death in 1898 at the age of 61. The furnace was acquired by Bethlehem Steel, who deeded it to the Hay Creek Valley Historical Association in 1979; the ruins have been enhanced by local historians and are open to visitors.\n\nLifespan = 1792–1898, 106 years; 1868–1898, 30 years in Smith/Grubb family\nFurnace type = Charcoal cold blast\nOre source = Jones Mine\nProduction = Not determined\nAcreage = Not determined\n\nWhile the Robesonia Iron Company, owners of the at Robesonia in Berks County about 20 miles east of Cornwall, was not a Grubb property, it affected the affairs of the Grubbs and Colemans for most of the 19th century because it owned access rights to Cornwall iron ore.\n\nAfter Curtis Grubb's oldest son Peter Grubb III received his inheritance in 1783, he sold his 1/3 interest in the Hopewell Forges to Robert Coleman. But as a condition of that sale Peter reserved for himself and his heirs the right of access to remove \"for as long as grass grows and water flows\" sufficient ore to supply \"one furnace\". Peter later, in 1883, sold his remaining share of the iron mines, along with these rights, to George Ege to supply his Reading Furnace in Berks County.\n\nHenry P. Robeson acquired the operation in 1845 and with it the right to access Cornwall iron ore. Robeson replaced the charcoal-fired Reading Furnace with two (in 1848 and 1855) more modern and much larger Robesonia Anthracite Furnaces, while still demanding the right to access Cornwall iron ore – to supply one furnace, whichever one of the two was in operation, but not both at once. The combined capacity was many times greater than had been visualized in 1783. That right of access, especially with the interpretation of the quantities of ore permitted for \"one furnace\", was a highly contentious issue for years between Robeson and the Grubbs and Colemans, who jointly owned the ore banks as tenants in common. The issue languished in the courts for years and was not resolved until the state Supreme Court ruled in Robesonia's favor in 1880. As a result, in 1884, the company decided to market only one kind of pig iron called \"Robesonia\", made exclusively from Cornwall ore, which was consumed in large quantities.\n\nIn 1926, the Bethlehem Steel Company, owners of the Cornwall iron mines since 1916, acquired Robesonia. In order to protect the mines from the enormous amounts of ore being consumed, Bethlehem Steel elected to shut down the Robesonia furnaces in 1927.\n\nLifespan = 1848–1927, 79 years (anthracite furnaces)\nFurnace type = Two anthracite hot blast furnaces\nOre source = Cornwall Iron Mines\nProduction = Grew from 52 ton/wk in 1848 to 240 ton/wk in 1854 to 1,000 ton/wk (52,000 ton/yr) in 1884\nAcreage = 6-7,000\n"}
{"id": "41255718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41255718", "title": "Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir", "text": "Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir\n\nHeiða Kristin Helgadóttir (born 20 April 1983) is an Icelandic politician and entrepreneur. She founded and led the Best Party and Bright Future.\n\nHelgadóttir was born in Washington, D.C. in the United States. She earned a BA in political science from the University of Iceland.\n\nAfter graduating from university, Helgadóttir worked in an artificial intelligence laboratory. While there her friend Gaukur Úlfarsson introduced her to comedian Jón Gnarr. Amid the Icelandic financial crisis they created the Best Party in 2009 with the original intention to parody political practices in Iceland. In 2010, Helgadóttir ran the Best Party's campaign in Reykjavik's election, resulting in a shock win which made Gnarr mayor of the city. During Gnarr's tenure as Reykjavik mayor, which ended in 2014, Helgadóttir was his close confidante and advisor and served as CEO of the Best Party.\n\nIn 2012, Helgadóttir founded the political party Bright Future, the successor to the Best Party, with Guðmundur Steingrímsson. She served as chairman of the party from its founding through December 2014. In the Bright Future's first election in April 2013, the party received 8.2% of the general vote, giving it six out of the 63 seats in Iceland's parliament. In 2015, Helgadóttir served as a parliamentarian for Bright Future in place of her colleague Björt Ólafsdóttir while she was on maternity leave.\n\nIn 2015, Helgadóttir hosted a weekly political news show on Iceland's Channel 2.\n\nIn 2015, Helgadóttir co-founded the Reykjavík-based startup incubator and marketing firm EFNI with American entrepreneur Oliver Luckett.\n\nHelgadóttir is the mother of two children. She is married to Guðmundur Kristján Jónsson.\n"}
{"id": "5497829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5497829", "title": "Herbert Samuel Holt", "text": "Herbert Samuel Holt\n\nSir Herbert Samuel Holt (February 12, 1856 – September 29, 1941) was an Irish-born Canadian civil engineer who became a businessman, banker, and corporate director with a ruthless business reputation. He was President of the Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal Light, Heat & Power, and a director of some 250 companies worldwide, with assets valued at around $200 million. On his death, the Montreal Gazette described him as \"the richest man in Canada\", but he was also one of the most reviled. Among his peers in the Golden Square Mile, \"everyone respected his business ability, but nobody liked him personally\". Holt was one of the founders of the Town of Hampstead, Quebec\n\nHolt was born at Ballycrystal, near Geashill, Co. Offaly. He was the second son of William Robert Grattan Holt, of Carberry House, Co. Kildare, inherited in 1742 from his ancestor, Hannah Colley (afterwards Grattan) of Castle Carberry. Holt grew up with his family at another family property, Ballycrystal, a grazing farm of 291 acres. In reference to Holt's own ruthless business reputation, it is of interest to note that in a dispute between his father and his uncle, it was said that, \"the business affairs of William Holt's family would not stand up to close scrutiny\". Herbert Holt's elder brother, Thomas Grattan Holt, succeeded to Ballycrystal and Carberry, while Holt studied civil engineering in Dublin. In 1873, he emigrated to Canada, beginning work as an assistant engineer with the Toronto Water Works. In the early 1880s, he was employed to survey and construct portions of the Canadian Pacific Railway across the prairies and through the Rocky Mountains, under James Ross.\n\nHerbert Holt became a pioneer developer of the energy business in the Province of Quebec and owned the Montreal Gas Company. In 1901 he merged Montreal Gas with Rodolphe Forget's Royal Electric Company to create the Montreal Light, Heat & Power Company. In 1944, their successful conglomerate was nationalized by legislation passed by the Legislative Assembly of Quebec. It came under the newly created Quebec Hydroelectric Commission, also known as Hydro-Québec. Holt served as president of the Royal Bank of Canada from 1908 to 1934, and the bank's chairman from 1934 until his death. He was a co-founder of the Ritz-Carlton Montreal, a director of Montreal Trust Company, Canada Car and Foundry and many other Canadian companies. He was appointed chairman of the Federal Plan Commission in 1913. In 1915, he was knighted by King George V. Herbert Samuel Holt died in 1941 and was interred in the Mount Royal Cemetery in Montreal. His comparatively modest home on Stanley Street in Montreal's Golden Square Mile was demolished after his death. Following its formation in 1979, Herbert Holt's significant contribution to the Canadian economy was recognized through his election to the Canadian Business Hall of Fame.\n\nHowever, Holt was also one of the richest and most reviled Montrealers of his time. When his death was announced at a baseball game in 1941, the crowd cheered. To many French Canadians, Holt was the epitome of 'les maudits anglais' ('the damned English'). Herbert is remembered for being a harsh banker who enjoyed large profits while the common man suffered during the great depression. In his own words, \"If I am rich and powerful, while you are suffering the stranglehold of poverty and the humiliation of social assistance; if I was able, at the peak of the Depression, to make 150% profits each year, it is foolishness on your part, and as for me, it is the fruit of a wise administration.\"\n\nIn 1890, Holt married Jessie, the eldest daughter of Andrew Paton (1833-1892) of Sherbrooke, Quebec. The Holts kept three houses: One at 297 Stanley Street in Montreal's Golden Square Mile; another called Ballycrystal House, near Nassau in the Bahamas; and a third called Send Grove, near Woking in England. The Holts were the parents of three sons:\n\n\nHolt, who was the father of three graduates of the Royal Military College of Canada and donated two hangars to the College in 1920 from the imperial war surplus stores in Canada. The hangars, which were free-freighted from Deseronto to Kingston, were erected as a covered skating rink.\n\n"}
{"id": "30081849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30081849", "title": "Inn sign", "text": "Inn sign\n\nInn signs have a history that extends beyond the Middle Ages, when many houses were identified by a sign, often a heraldic charge, which signified that the premises were under the special care of a nobleman, or a vivid image that impressed itself on the memory. The ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii reveal that most of their street-front shops displayed an identifying sign outside. \n\nIn Ireland and the United Kingdom especially, the tradition, by which publicans were obliged to identify their premises by a sign, dating from the reign of Richard II,is carried on today. A selection of inn signs carved on slabs and rescued after the Great Fire of London is preserved in the Guildhall. \n\nhttp://www.breweryartists.co.uk/ History of a now defunct studio and examples of painted signs\n\n \n"}
{"id": "42309411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42309411", "title": "J. Randolph (Randy) Lewis", "text": "J. Randolph (Randy) Lewis\n\nJ. Randolph (Randy) Lewis (born c. 1950) is an American businessman, a disability employment advocate, and author.\n\nLewis is a former senior vice president of a Fortune 50 company, and board member of a national restaurant chain. He was the head of supply chain and logistics at Walgreens for 17 years until his retirement in 2013. Over his last ten years there, he created a program in its distribution centers to integrate large numbers of people with disabilities as equals into its workforce.\n\nLewis was born in Texas \"circa\" 1950. He earned his Bachelor of Applied Arts degree in accounting in 1971, a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics in 1974, and a Master of Business Administration degree in finance in 1975, all from the University of Texas at Austin, located in Austin, Texas. Lewis joined the Peace Corps and was stationed in Peru.\n\nLewis was a Chicago-based partner at Ernst & Young and Walgreens was his client by the late 1980s. His primary client in 1992, Walgreens offered him a position.\n\nLewis joined Walgreens in 1992 as divisional vice president, logistics and planning and promoted to vice president to head its supply chain in 1996. He was promoted to senior vice president in 1999. During his time there, Walgreens expanded from 1,500 to 8,000 stores. When he took over in 1996, Walgreens began to contract outside agencies that employed people with disabilities in its distribution centers on a limited basis, typically in non-production areas.\n\nHis son, Austin, has autism which may have led Lewis to note the importance of employment for those with disabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "22284065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22284065", "title": "Kate Mason Rowland", "text": "Kate Mason Rowland\n\nKate Mason Rowland (June 22, 1840 – June 28, 1916) was an American author, historian, genealogist, biographer, editor and historic preservationist. Rowland is best known for her biography of her great-great-granduncle, George Mason, a Founding Father of the United States. Rowland was also a charter member of the United Daughters of the Confederacy. She later went by the name of \"Kate Mason.\"\n\nKate Mason Rowland and her twin sister, Elizabeth Moir Mason Rowland (died 1905), were born on June 22, 1840 to Major Isaac S. Rowland and his wife, Catherine Armistead Mason. Rowland was a granddaughter of John Thomson Mason and a niece of Stevens Thomson Mason.\n\nRowland volunteered for the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War. She served as a nurse at Camp Winder Hospital in Richmond, Virginia. On April 4, 1865, after the Confederate government abandoned Richmond, Rowland, then a matron at the Marine Hospital (also known as the Naval Hospital), sang \"patriotic songs\" to hospitalized soldiers. She described the scene in her diary as \"overflowing with merriment,\" in which a casual observer would \"hardly realize we were all prisoners\" of the Union. Both of Rowland's brothers, Thomas Rowland (1842–1874) and John Thomson Mason (1844–1901), served in the Confederate States Army.\n\nRowland was a charter member of the United Daughters of the Confederacy. Rowland found the moniker \"War of the Rebellion\" for the American Civil War unacceptable. She introduced a resolution at a United Daughters of the Confederacy meeting in November 1899 requiring members to \"use every influence, as a body and individually, to expel from the literature of the country and from the daily press, the phrase, 'war of the rebellion,' and to have substituted for it the phrase, 'War Between the States.'\" Rowland's resolution went further, instructing members to induce the Federal government to use the preferred term.\n\nIn addition to the United Daughters of the Confederacy, Rowland was also an active member of the Virginia Historical Society, the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities, and the Confederate Memorial Literary Society. She was an honorary member of the Woman's Literary Club of Baltimore.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2010 the Library of Virginia posthumously honored Rowland as one of their \"Virginia Women in History\" for her contributions to writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1324480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1324480", "title": "Khoo Teck Puat", "text": "Khoo Teck Puat\n\nTan Sri Khoo Teck Puat (; 13 January 1917 – 21 February 2004) was a banker and hotel owner, who, with an estimated fortune of S$4.3 billion, was the wealthiest man in Singapore at one point. He owned the Goodwood Group of boutique hotels in London and Singapore and was the largest single shareholder of the British bank Standard Chartered. The bulk of his fortune came from shares in Standard Chartered, which he bought up in the 1980s to help thwart Lloyds Bank's proposed acquisition which many financiers deemed hostile. The Goodwood Park Hotel in Singapore, built in 1900, is a restored historic landmark.\n\nAround the period of his death in 2004, Khoo was ranked as the 108th richest person in the world by the business magazine \"Forbes\" . Khoo's estate has donated S$80 million to Duke-NUS Medical School.\n\nKhoo received his early education in St Joseph's Institution in Singapore in 1930. He was educated up to standard eight prior to his marriage at the age of 17, and started working in the bank Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation (OCBC) as an apprentice bank clerk by 1933. While attached with OCBC, Khoo served as the Chairman of Central Provident Fund (CPF) Board for a year in 1958. His rise in OCBC was rapid and he developed strong ties with Tan Chin Tuan until they had a difference of opinion which resulted him leaving OCBC in 1959 as the general manager. He argued that OCBC was growing far too slowly and not opening enough branches in the smaller towns in Peninsular Malaya.\n\nIn 1960, Khoo restarted his career in banking by founding Malayan Banking (now commonly known as Maybank) with a few partners in Kuala Lumpur. The bank grew rapidly to more than 150 branches within three years.\n\nIn 1963, the bank purchased Goodwood Park Hotel in Singapore for S$4.8 million.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1965, Khoo was a senator in the Malaysian parliament.\n\nIn 1965, Khoo was ousted from Maybank by the Malaysian government under Deputy Prime Minister Tun Abdul Razak on the pretext of pumping the bank's money into his own private firm in Singapore.\n\nIn 1968, Khoo bought over Maybank's Singapore properties, including Goodwood Park Hotel and Central Properties, for S$50 million. While bitter with what the Malaysian government did, Khoo retained his Malaysian citizenship.\n\nIn 1976, he ceased to be a director of Maybank. Though he had opened the national bank of Brunei in the 1960s, his search for a legitimate banking vehicle continued.\n\nIn 1981, Khoo bought Australia's Southern Pacific Hotel Corporation – parent of the Travelodge chain – using funds from the National Bank of Brunei. He sold it in 1988 as part of his asset liquidation process to make restitution to the Bruneian government.\n\nAfter the death of the former Sultan Omar in 1986, Sultan Hassanal arranged for an investigation into the finances of the National Bank, leading to its closure. Khoo had allegedly taken unsecured and undocumented loans of more than £300 million from the bank. He was never charged, but his son Khoo Ban Hock served two years in prison for his role in the affair.\n\nIn 1986, an opportunity arose when as a white knight, Khoo made a dramatic acquisition of a 5% stake in the British bank Standard Chartered, being one of three financiers who came to the rescue of Standard Chartered to stave off a hostile takeover by Lloyds Bank. He subsequently grew his stake to almost 15% to become the single largest shareholder.\n\nIn 1990, Khoo made a contribution of S$10 million to the Singapore government's 25th anniversary charity fund – to help children, the elderly and the disabled. He was listed as Singapore's richest businessman by the business magazine \"Forbes\" in 2003.\n\nIn 2004, when Khoo died at Mount Elizabeth Hospital from a heart attack, it emerged that Khoo had owned a larger stake in his listed companies Goodwood Park, Hotel Malaysia and Central Properties than was disclosed to the Singapore Exchange. After an investigation, his daughters Jacqueline and Elizabeth, who were in management positions at the companies, were fined a total of S$500,000. Khoo left his Standard Chartered stake, then approximately 11.5%, to his children.\n\nIn March 2006, they sold it to Singapore's Temasek Holdings.\n\nThe present-day Khoo Teck Puat Hospital was named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1278361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1278361", "title": "Kuhn, Loeb &amp; Co.", "text": "Kuhn, Loeb &amp; Co.\n\nKuhn, Loeb & Co. was a bulge bracket investment bank founded in 1867 by Abraham Kuhn(1819–1892) and his brother-in-law Solomon Loeb. Under the leadership of Jacob H. Schiff, Loeb's son-in-law, it grew to be one of the most influential investment banks in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, financing America's expanding railways and growth companies, including Western Union and Westinghouse, and thereby becoming the principal rival of J.P. Morgan & Co.\n\nIn the years following Schiff's death in 1920, the firm was led by Otto Kahn and Felix Warburg, men who had already solidified their roles as Schiff's able successors. However, the firm's fortunes began to fade following World War II, when it failed to keep pace with a rapidly changing investment banking industry, in which Kuhn, Loeb's old-world, genteel ways, did not seem to fit; the days of the gentleman-banker had passed.\n\nThe firm lost its independence in 1977 when it merged with Lehman Brothers, creating Lehman Brothers, Kuhn, Loeb Inc. The combined firm was itself acquired in 1984 by American Express, forming Shearson Lehman/American Express and with that, the Kuhn, Loeb name was discarded.\n\nKuhn, Loeb & Co. was an investment bank located in New York City. It was founded in 1867, by Abraham Kuhn and Solomon Loeb. Kuhn and Loeb had created a successful merchandising business in Cincinnati, Ohio, when they decided to move east, to New York, to take advantage of the country's burgeoning economic expansion. Company records indicate that by the time Kuhn and Loeb established their partnership, they were able to capitalize it at $500,000 (equivalent of about $ million in 2017). On January 1, 1875, Jacob Schiff (1847–1920), Solomon Loeb's son-in-law, joined the firm. He eventually became its leader and grew the firm into the second most prestigious investment bank in the United States behind J. Pierpont Morgan's J.P. Morgan & Co.\nThe firm grew to prominence during the railroad era in the United States. Americans saw great hope and promise in railroads and investors saw great opportunities to profit. Kuhn, Loeb, like all investment banks, brought capital together with commercial opportunity. Its first meaningful entry into railroad financing was in 1877 when it raised funds for the Chicago and North Western Railroad, and several years later, in 1881, for the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad.\n\nSchiff was instrumental in the reorganization of the Union Pacific in 1897, helping to place the firm on sound financial footing. In 1901, with Kuhn, Loeb's financial support, E. H. Harriman famously battled James Jerome Hill and J.P. Morgan to acquire control of the Northern Pacific Railroad.\n\nThe firm was long associated with many of America's emerging industrial giants, providing financial backing for Westinghouse and Western Union, as well as innovative consumer giants like the Polaroid Corporation. The firm also enjoyed respect as a trusted adviser overseas, providing services to numerous foreign governments, including the governments of Austria, Finland, Mexico and Venezuela.\n\nIt also acted as the leading investment house for John D. Rockefeller, through the guidance of his investment adviser, Frederick T. Gates. Rockefeller invested in many syndicates with the bank, including major stakes in the prominent railroad companies, as well as contributing to its consolidation of the Chicago meatpackers, which resulted in the formation of a leading trust. Overseas ventures that Rockefeller also got involved with included the bank's loans to the Chinese and Imperial Japanese governments.\n\nThe firm also joined a partnership with Rockefeller in 1911 to gain control of the Equitable Trust Company, which was later to merge and become the Chase Bank.\n\nFamous partners of the firm included Otto Kahn, Paul Warburg, Felix Warburg, Mortimer Schiff, Benjamin Buttenwieser, Lewis Strauss, and Sigmund Warburg, founder of S.G. Warburg. \n\nIn its early years, intermarriage among the German-Jewish elite was common. Consequently, the partners of Kuhn, Loeb were closely related by blood and marriage to the partners of J & W Seligman, Speyer & Co., Goldman, Sachs & Co., Lehman Brothers and other prominent German-Jewish firms. Prior to the Second World War, a particularly close relationship existed between the partners of Kuhn, Loeb and M. M. Warburg & Co. of Hamburg, Germany, through Paul and Felix, who were Kuhn, Loeb partners. Later on, following World War II, their cousin Sigmund Warburg would briefly continue this relationship as a partner and Executive Director of the firm.\n\nThe firm's fortunes began to fade in the years following World War II. Wall Street was changing and shifting away from relationship banking. Kuhn, Loeb's world of gentlemen bankers was gradually being replaced by a more aggressive, transaction-oriented Wall Street, with underwriters entering the trenches and selling securities directly to the public—territory Kuhn, Loeb stubbornly refused to enter. When asked how many people worked at Kuhn, Loeb, one partner famously quipped, \"about half\". Such was life at Kuhn, Loeb, resting on its laurels, while Wall Street passed it by.\n\nIn 1977, facing a capital crisis, the firm succumbed and merged with Lehman Brothers, to form Lehman Brothers, Kuhn, Loeb Inc. Internationally, the merged firms were known as Kuhn Loeb Lehman Brothers Inc., in recognition of the fact that Kuhn Loeb's international reputation was superior to that of Lehman's.\n\nThe merger did not, however, prove to be the panacea to what ailed Kuhn, Loeb. Indeed, as detailed more closely in the Lehman Brothers history, a period of bitter internal strife ended in 1984 when the firm sold itself to Shearson/American Express, itself the product of a recent merger between American Express and Sandy Weill's, Shearson Loeb Rhoades. The combined firms then dropped the Kuhn, Loeb name and became known as Shearson Lehman/American Express, ending Kuhn, Loeb's almost 120 years on Wall Street.\n\nLater, the combined firm purchased disgraced E.F. Hutton, becoming Shearson Lehman Hutton. Ultimately, however, American Express could not make the pieces of its financial services supermarket work. In 1993, under then newly appointed CEO, Harvey Golub, the firm sold its retail brokerage operations to Primerica. In 1994, it spun off a beleaguered Lehman Brothers as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., in an initial public offering.\n\nAlthough the Kuhn, Loeb name is probably gone forever, the firm's legacy is not. Former Kuhn, Loeb employees remain in senior positions throughout Wall Street, and until recently, at Lehman Brothers. Vestiges of the firm survived in the form of Lehman Brothers' extensive fixed income capabilities, including many of their bond indices, such as the Government/Credit index. This index, originally created in 1973 by Kuhn, Loeb, as the Government/Corporate index, was among the first generation of bond index data to measure the fixed income market. It is still the preeminent benchmark in its class.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's mergers and its role in later successor firms, notably Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb, Shearson Lehman Brothers and later Lehman Brothers (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> First non-family member to be admitted to the partnership. \n^ Indicates status as former managing partner\n\n\n\nKuhn, Loeb & Co., had a number of homes throughout its existence:\n\nIn 1867 Kuhn, Loeb & Co., was reputed to have been capitalized at $500,000.00. In today's dollars, versus various benchmarks, this would be equal to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36651088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36651088", "title": "Label Rouge", "text": "Label Rouge\n\nLabel Rouge (\"Red Label\") is a sign of quality assurance in France as defined by Law No. 2006-11 (5 January 2006).\n\nProducts eligible for the Label Rouge are food items (including seafood) and non-food and unprocessed agricultural products such as flowers. According to the French Ministry of Agriculture: \"The Red Label certifies that a product has a specific set of characteristics establishing a superior level to that of a similar current product\".\n\nIn 1992, Scottish salmon was the first fish and first non-French product to be awarded the Label Rouge quality mark, the official endorsement by the French authorities of the superior quality of a food or farmed product, particularly with regard to taste.\n\nTo obtain this recognition, a very stringent set of standards prepared by a group of producers must be approved. These standards establish the criteria which the product must meet throughout the production chain, including farming techniques, feed, processing and distribution.\n\nApproval is officially announced through a joint decree from the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries and the Minister for Consumer Affairs, on the recommendations of the National Institute for Origin and Quality (INAO). INAO is the French public body responsible for quality and origin marks relating to food products.\n\nScottish Quality Salmon is the standard owner of Label Rouge No. LA 33/90. Compliance with the standards is controlled by an independent certifying body, Acoura, formerly Food Certification International Ltd. Suppliers of whole Label Rouge Scottish salmon and Label Rouge Scottish salmon portions can be found on the Label Rouge Saumon Ecossais website.\n\nThe quality manual for Label Rouge LA 33/90 specifies all the requirements for attaining this superior quality standard.\n\nThe PGI manual defines the criteria for product origin.\n\nThe following are significant elements of Label Rouge Scottish salmon’s exceptional quality:-\n\n\nThe origin of each Label Rouge salmon can be identified through a sequentially numbered tag allocated by the certifying body.\n\nThis tag is attached to the fish gill and includes the following information:-\n\n\nIn addition, each box carries a sequentially numbered label, also supplied by the certifying body.\n\n"}
{"id": "7483320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7483320", "title": "Marketing ethics", "text": "Marketing ethics\n\nMarketing ethics is an area of applied ethics which deals with the moral principles behind the operation and regulation of marketing. Some areas of marketing ethics (ethics of advertising and promotion) overlap with media ethics.\n\n\nNone of these frameworks allows, by itself, a convenient and complete categorization of the great variety of issues in marketing ethics\n\nContrary to popular impressions, not all marketing is adversarial, and not all marketing is stacked in favour of the marketer. In marketing, the relationship between producer/consumer or buyer/seller can be adversarial or cooperative. For an example of cooperative marketing, see relationship marketing. If the marketing situation is adversarial, another dimension of difference emerges, describing the power balance \nbetween producer/consumer or buyer/seller. Power may be concentrated with the producer (\"caveat emptor\"),\nbut factors such as over-supply or legislation can shift the power towards the consumer (\"caveat vendor\"). Identifying where the power in the relationship lies and whether the power balance is relevant at all are important to understanding the background to an ethical dilemma in marketing ethics.\n\nA popularist anti-marketing stance commonly discussed on the blogosphere and popular literature is that any kind of marketing is inherently evil. The position is based on the argument that marketing necessarily commits at least one of three wrongs:\n\nMarket research is the collection and analysis of information about consumers, competitors and the effectiveness of marketing programs. With market research, businesses can make decisions based on how the responses of the market, leading to a better understanding of how the business has to adapt to the changing market. It is used to establish which portion of the population will or does purchase a product, based on age, gender, location, income level, and many other variables. This research allows companies to learn more about past, current, and potential customers, including their specific likes and dislikes.\n\nEthical danger points in market research include:\nInvasion of privacy\n\nAs companies conduct research they also come into contact with confidential and personal information, which comes with a level of risk for both the business as well as the individual. Now day’s consumers are bombarded with mail after using their email address to enter in a competition thus becoming part of a businesses mailing list. Therefore, companies are provided with critical information, which they must not take advantage of but use in an ethical manner.\n\nStereotyping:\n\nPortraying an ideal body, weight or physical appearance can have potential harmful effects on the individual such as low self-esteem issues or anorexia. Good marketing is ethical marketing, it is about pleasing and developing a strong relationship with customers in a caring manner by not primarily only focusing on achieving results in order to generate profit.\n\nPeople affected by unethical market research:\n\nApproaches to privacy can, broadly, be divided into two categories: free market, and consumer protection.[31] In a free market approach, commercial entities are largely allowed to do what they wish, with the expectation that consumers will choose to do business with corporations that respect their privacy to a desired degree. If some companies are not sufficiently respectful of privacy, they will lose market share. In a consumer protection approach, in contrast, it is claimed that individuals may not have the time or knowledge to make informed choices, or may not have reasonable alternatives available.\nStereotyping occurs because any analysis of real populations needs to make approximations and place individuals into groups. However, if conducted irresponsibly, stereotyping can lead to a variety of ethically undesirable results. In the American Marketing Association Statement of Ethics, stereotyping is countered by the obligation to show respect (\"acknowledge the basic human dignity of all stakeholders\").\n\nEthical danger points include:\n\nExamples of unethical market exclusion or selective marketing are past industry attitudes to the gay, ethnic minority and\nplus size markets. Contrary to the popular myth that ethics and profits do not mix,\nthe tapping of these markets has proved highly profitable. For example, 20% of US clothing sales are now plus-size. Another example is the selective marketing of health care, so that unprofitable sectors (i.e. the elderly) will not\nattempt to take benefits to which they are entitled.\nA further example of market exclusion is the pharmaceutical industry's exclusion of developing countries\nfrom AIDS drugs.\n\nExamples of marketing which unethically targets the elderly include: living trusts, time share fraud, mass marketing fraud and others.\nThe elderly hold a disproportionate amount of the world's wealth and are therefore the target of financial exploitation.\n\nIn the case of children, the main products are unhealthy food, fashionware and entertainment goods. Children are a lucrative market: \"...children 12 and under spend more than $11 billion of their own money and influence family spending decisions worth another $165 billion\", but are not capable of resisting or understanding marketing tactics at younger ages (\"children don't understand persuasive intent until they are eight or nine years old\"). At older ages competitive feelings towards other children are stronger than financial sense. The practice of extending children's marketing from television to the school grounds is also controversial (see marketing in schools). The following is a select list of online articles:\n\nOther vulnerable audiences include emerging markets in developing countries, where the public may not be sufficiently aware of skilled marketing ploys transferred from developed countries, and where, conversely, marketers may not be aware how excessively powerful their tactics may be. See Nestle infant milk formula scandal. Another vulnerable group are mentally unstable consumers. The definition of vulnerability is also problematic: for example, when should endebtedness be seen as a vulnerability and when should \"cheap\" loan providers be seen as loan sharks, unethically exploiting the economically disadvantaged?\n\nTargeting the Vulnerable\n\nMarketing targeting strategies for products that may cause economic, physical and psychological harm has become an aspect of marketing which is criticized a considerable amount, especially in marketing literature with a particular focus on vulnerable consumers\n\nChildren, elderly consumers, and economically disadvantaged consumers are often categorized as being a part of the vulnerable group in marketing, in terms of ethics. “Ethics and social responsibility communities seem to agree that targeting a vulnerable group with marketing campaigns that take advantage of their vulnerability is unjust”. George G Brenkert was amongst the first to raise the issue about taking advantage of the vulnerability of a person, which therefore makes marketing practices immoral or unjust. Adolescents and children in the US are major market force in the food and beverage industry and as a result, food marketers are “attracted to the youth as consumers because of their spending power, purchasing influences and as future adult consumers”. It is ethically wrong to target children especially when it comes to unhealthy food and beverages, as children may not want anything else, which could lead to child obesity. Children have difficulty deciding between the purpose of advertising and other modes of communication; therefore it is morally unacceptable to target vulnerable children with such products. In Belgium, it is banned to show commercials during children’s programs, similarly in Australia, such ads are not allowed during television programs for preschoolers. It is considered unethical to generate profits through marketing to vulnerable groups, such as children, the poor or the elderly.\n\nThe ethics of marketing practice, especially directed towards the vulnerable can be divided into two areas, product and process.\n\nProcess related ethical issues are often demonstrated through the use of deceptive or misleading advertising, where as product related issues is predominately focuses on marketing of certain “harmful” products such as tobacco, unhealthy food etc.\n\nExcluding potential customers from the market:\n\nThere are certain high caution aspects of ethical marketing in terms of market audience. Using selective marketing to discourage demand from an unwanted market group or exclude them altogether. Examples of market exclusion or selective marketing are certain company’s attitudes towards the gay, ethnic groups and overweight (plus size) market groups. Customers are treated like this because companies think that they are unprofitable so they try to deprive them or avoid them altogether. It is often debated amongst the business community that in order to be profitable, often businesses have to be unethical. However, this idea is seemingly outdated as most businesses nowadays follow an ethical business plan. In the United States, plus size apparel is thought to have generated $17.5 billion between May 2013 and April 2014, which is a 5% increase from the previous year, this is to be expected as 65% of American women are plus sized . Another example of exclusion from the market is some pharmaceutical industry’s exclude developing countries from AIDS drugs\n\nPricing ethics:\n\nPricing along with product, place and promotion are the four functions of marketing. Retailers and producers must ensure that ethical pricing strategies are performed in order to earn profits without deceiving competitors or consumers .\n\nHowever buyers and sellers have different goals and perceived outcomes in the exchange process. Usually buyers are seeking to gain products and services at the best possible price whereas sellers are generally concentrated on generating maximum profit.\n\nPrice fixing:\n\nPrice fixing is maintaining a price at a certain level, which has been agreed upon between competing sellers and is illegal in most countries . When price fixing occurs and a price is set by an industry, customers are forced to pay the exorbitant price due to a lack of options.\n\nPrice fixing is thought to be unethical and socially irresponsible as it breaks laws that are specifically put into place to promote regular competition between companies . With competition between companies, business will be likely to keep costs low at affordable prices, in order to compete.\n\nPrice wars:\n\nPrice wars, is when businesses constantly lower its prices in an attempt to demoralize its competition . Price wars can create emotionally devastating and psychologically devastating situations, which has an extraordinary impact on an individual, a company and industry profits . The intention of a price war is to drive competitors out of the market or to create an entry barrier into the market. Although it is beneficial for consumers, as they will get the product or service at a low price, however they are often deprived for quality. Also in the long term, it will force other competitors out of business and lower profits threaten business survival. If a company is involved in price war tactics, then it can be seen as unethical within the industry because they are starting a dangerous position and driving other companies to use similar tactics. A companies overall goal is to maximize its profits and revenue, however through engaging in a price war they are unable to do this and are more likely making less money as they would have had they taken part in normal business competition. If price wars can be avoided, it will prove to be vital success for any business.\n\nPrice Collusion:\n\nPrice Collusion is when several companies get together in order to hold the price of a good or service at a raised level in the hopes of achieving large profits or restricting the market. Price fixing is sometimes called price collusion in order to emphasize the agreement using secretive, to avoid fair competition.\n\nPricing practices that are considered unethical in most geographic markets include:\n\nList of pricing practices which may be unethical in certain circumstances and should be used with caution:\n\nAdvertising is mass and paid communication, with a fundamental purpose to deliver information, acquire attitudes and induce action beneficial to the advertiser – generally the sale of the product or service. Advertising and promotion have a significant influence on people, society in large, while shaping their attitudes, behaviors and priorities . Some scholars believe that advertising supports ethical issues. It is also considered unethical to shame a substitute or rivals product or services (Srivastava & Nandan, 2010). Other ethical issues include, mistreatment of women, advertising to children, misleading advertising and other issues, which lead to ethical decline of society. Mistreatment of women is evident immensely in advertisements. Often women are matched up with household products such as cleaning supplies and are shown as doing domestic work, which represents stereotyping of women. Women are also often used as sex symbols, to convey particular messages about products. Also men are often apparent in DIY (do it yourself) ads, which deliver the idea of them being a “handy man. An ad, which demonstrates ethical features, is truthful, it doesn’t make false claims, and it provides sufficient information for the buyer to make informed choices. Exhibiting a level of respect and dignity for its buyers is important while demonstrating decency. An example of an advert produced by Coca Cola, through using false advertising, it showed unethical issues behind its production. Coca Cola used of Karl Langerfeld (Chanel designer) who had claimed to lose 80 pounds on a diet that was mainly attributed to diet coke, “I drink diet coke from the minute I get up to the minute I go to bed and I drink nothing else”. This advert was specially targeted towards women as it aimed to be conveyed as a fashion trend, through the use of a famous fashion designer. Coke used thin models and world-renowned fashion designers both of whom are cautious of body image, which shows the wrong message for women, especially young women. The advert shows that going overboard with dieting is conventional and that diet coke is the way of going about achieving a thin and attractive body. It is ethically wrong to be using Karl Lagerfeld’s extreme dieting ways in order to promote diet coke. It is not only advocating an extreme statement, but it is also sending the wrong message about the drink by directly associating it to a “healthy ideal body”. Often the line between ethical and unethical advertising is blurred, what may seem unethical to some consumers or businesses, may not to for others. Therefore, in cases like this, businesses should proceed with caution, because unethical advertising and promotion can fail, causing consumers to shy away from the company consequently defeating the purpose of any campaign. \n\nEthical pitfalls in advertising and promotional content include:\n\nAnother breach of marketing ethics has to do with the use of deceptive advertising. This form of advertising is not specific to one target market, and can sometimes go unnoticed by the public. There are a number of different ways in which deceptive marketing can be presented to consumers; one of these methods is accomplished through the use of humor. In a study conducted by Hassib Shabbir and Des Thwaites, 238 advertisements were assessed and 73.5% of them were found to have used deceptive marketing practices. Of those advertisements that were conducted deceptively, 74.5% of them used humor as a masking device in order to mislead potential customers. Part of what drives this study is the idea that humor provides an escape or relief from some kind of human constraint, and that some advertisers intend to take advantage of this by deceptively advertising a product that can potentially alleviate that constraint through humor. Through the study it was also found that all types of humor are used to deceive consumers, and that there are certain types of humor that are used when making certain deceptive claims.\n\nIt is important to understand that humor is not the only method that is used to deter consumer’s minds from what a product actually offers. Before making important purchases, one should always conduct their own research in order to gain a better understanding of what it is they are investing in.\n\nBusiness ethics has been an increasing concern among larger companies, at least since the 1990s. Major corporations increasingly fear the damage to their image associated with press revelations of unethical practices. Marketers have been among the fastest to perceive the market's preference for ethical companies, often moving faster to take advantage of this shift in consumer taste. This results in the expropriation of ethics itself as a selling point or a component of a corporate image.\n\"Liberation marketing takes the old mass culture critique — consumerism as conformity — fully into account, acknowledges it, addresses it, and solves it. Liberation marketing imagines consumers breaking free from the old enforcers of order, tearing loose from the shackles with which capitalism has bound us, escaping the routine of bureaucracy and hierarchy, getting in touch with our true selves, and finally, finding authenticity, that holiest of consumer grails.\" (Thomas Frank)\nNeuromarketing and its precursor, neuroeconomics, uses clinical information about brain functions and mechanisms to\nhelp explain what is happening inside of the “black box” so prevalent in many explanations of consumer behavior. In order to do so, specialists use neuroimaging techniques and record brain responses to different stimuli.\nThe Neuromarketing Science & Business Association has launched on November 2012 a Neuromarketing Code of Ethics. This is a first step towards adopting international standards applied to using neuroscientific methods to study the effectiveness of advertising campaigns, packaging and product design, as well as communication campaigns from non-profit organizations and government institutions. However, some ethicists condemn the code as protecting only a very narrow class, and in the extreme position that neuromarketing itself should only be used for the advancement of what is reasonably believed to be public good, employing Thomas Aquinas' doctrine of double effect (DDE). Although one could make the argument that engineering profit serves the public good, it would not be saved under the DDE because the intention behind it is not to generate a greater good than to which the collective harm of manipulation is greater. However, neuromarketing programs to encourage healthy lifestyle choices may be saved under the DDE, provided it is based on good scientific information in the first place, such as regular exercise.\n\nThe main theoretical issue here is the debate between free markets and regulated markets.\nIn a truly free market, any participant can make or change the rules. However, when new rules\nare invented which shift power too suddenly or too far, other participants may respond with\naccusations of unethical behaviour, rather than modifying their own behaviour to suit (which they\nmight not be able to anyway). Most markets are not fully free: the real debate is as to the\nappropriate extent of regulation.\n\nCase: California electricity crisis, which demonstrates how constant innovation of\nnew marketing strategies by companies such as Enron outwitted the regulatory bodies\nand caused substantial harm to consumers and competitors.\n\nA list of known unethical or controversial marketing strategies:\n\nControversial marketing strategies associated with the internet:\n\nMarketing ethics overlaps with environmental ethics in respect of waste problems associated with the packaging of products.\n\nSome, such as members of the advocacy group No Free Lunch, have argued that marketing by pharmaceutical companies is negatively impacting physicians' prescribing practices, influencing them to prescribe the marketed drugs rather than others which may be cheaper or better for the patient.\n\nEthical thinking is responding to situations that deal with principles concerning human behavior in respect to the appropriateness and inappropriateness of certain communication and to the decency and indecency of the intention and results of such actions. In other words, ethics are distinctions between right and wrong. Businesses are confronted with ethical decision making every day, and whether employees decide to use ethics as a guiding force when conducting business is something that business leaders, such as managers, need to instill. Marketers are ethically responsible for what is marketed and the image that a product portrays. With that said, marketers need to understand what good ethics are and how to incorporate good ethics in various marketing campaigns to better reach a targeted audience and to gain trust from customers.\n\nMarketing ethics, regardless of the product offered or the market targeted, sets the guidelines for which good marketing is practiced. When companies create high ethical standards upon which to approach marketing they are participating in ethical marketing. To market ethically and effectively one should be reminded that all marketing decisions and efforts are necessary to meet and suit the needs of customers, suppliers, and business partners. Ethical behavior should be enforced throughout company culture and through company practices.\n\nHowever, marketers have been known to market questionable products to the public. These tend to be controversial products in that they appeal to some while offending others. An example of such a product that is sold regularly today is a cheap handgun. America is a country in which its citizens have the right to bear arms, yet these weapons are criticized by the public because they are sold at a low price making it rather easy to purchase by members of less affluent communities. Critics have referred to these weapons as \" Saturday Night Specials\" referring to the negative connotation that they are purchased to commit crimes. In defense of the critics opinions, if in fact these guns are purchased with the intent to commit such crimes, than one must question the ethics behind marketing these products to criminals. Is the marketer facilitating the crime by appealing to this target market with a weapon that is easily accessible? While the argument in this case may seem unethical due to the questionable nature of these cheap handguns, this argument does not apply to the sale of all guns. That is because weapons that are legally sold to customers at an affordable rate for safety purposes, self-defense, hunting, and law enforcement are perfectly ethical due to the fact that they are safe product that is marketed to a responsible consumer. This comparison supports the fact that ethical marketing can be perceived differently consumers depending on the nature of the nature of the product that is being sold.\n\nMarketing ethics and marketing law are related subjects. Relevant areas of law include consumer law which protects consumers and antitrust law which protects competitors - in both cases, against unethical marketing practices. Regulation extends beyond the law to lobbies, watchdog bodies and self-regulatory industry bodies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12468547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12468547", "title": "Marwan Boodai", "text": "Marwan Boodai\n\nMarwan Marzouk Boodai is a Kuwaiti businessman and currently the CEO of Boodai Group, and chairman of Jazeera Airways.\nThe Boodai Group runs many businesses in Kuwait such as Jazeera Airways, City Bus, City Taxi, Limousine Services etc.\n"}
{"id": "1641654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1641654", "title": "Maytag Blue cheese", "text": "Maytag Blue cheese\n\nMaytag is a blue cheese produced on the Maytag Dairy Farms outside of Newton, Iowa, the former home of the Maytag Corporation. In 1938, Iowa State University independently developed a process for making blue cheese from homogenized cow's milk instead of the traditional sheep's milk.\n\nIn 1941 production of the cheese was started by Frederick L. Maytag II and Robert Maytag, grandsons of the founder of the Maytag appliance company, Frederick Louis Maytag I. The milk for the cheese initially came from a prize-winning herd of Holstein cattle that was established by E. H. Maytag, a son of the Maytag founder.\n\nThe farm has survived without advertising or a sales staff.\n\nIn February 2016 Maytag issued three recalls with the FDA for possible contamination with Listeria monocytogenes, and subsequently stopped production and shipping for several months. In November 2016 operations resumed and a new fall catalog was issued.\n\nAs of September, 2017, sales have resumed.\n\nThe process for making Maytag Blue Cheese was discovered and patented in the United States by two Iowa State University microbiologists, Clarence Lane and Bernard W. Hammer. Roquefort, another type of blue cheese, had been made for hundreds of years in Europe, but attempts to manufacture a similar cheese in the United States had thus far been unsuccessful. Difficulties encountered in making these types of cheeses produced a less than satisfactory product, and quality control would have been disastrous.\n\n\"During the Second World War, [the] university patented the homogenisation of cheese milk and attempted to have charges levied on Danish cheese produced using homogenised milk. Their attempts failed, as it could be proved that this method had been introduced 20 years earlier in Denmark by Marius Boe.\"\n\nThe problems encountered with producing Roquefort type cheeses in the United States for distribution were the lengthy time required to develop the flavor, the mold growth not being uniform, the quality being below average for numerous lots produced, and the color of the curd being too dark.\n\nThe process begins with homogenizing the milk used for the cheese. The cream is separated from the milk, homogenized and then added back into the now skim milk, typically at between 80 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit (27 and 38 °C) and 2000 to 3500 pounds-force per square inch (14 to 24 MPa) of pressure.</ref> This would allow for proper fat hydrolysis, which affects the flavor of the cheese.\n\nThere is a ripening period prior to adding rennet (a mixture of enzymes that coagulates milk into curds and whey) to the cheese. Typically 3 ounces of rennet are added per 100 pounds of milk, allowing it to set in a temperature range of 85 to 86 °F (30 °C). Better results were achieved using 4 ounces of rennet per 100 pounds of milk and setting in a higher than usual temperature range of 90 to 92 °F (32 to 33 °C).\n\nAccording to Lane and Hammer's records, their alterations caused the cheese-making process to speed up from this point forward, with the time spent setting, cutting and dipping nearly cut in half. Also, after dipping the cheese and allowing it to cook in hot whey, the draining time was cut from 20–30 minutes to 3–5 minutes.\n\n\"Penicillium\" is then added to the finished product, which produces its characteristic green veins.\n\nAfter the rounds of cheese are made by hand, the cheese is aged in specially designed caves where they are exposed to high humidity and cool temperatures.\n\nThe process produces cheese with more uniform color, flavor, and texture than previous processes, resulting in a consistent product.\n\n of blue cheese:\n\n\nMaytag issued three recalls with the FDA in February 2016 \"due to possible contamination with Listeria monocytogenes\".\n\nAccording to its website, the Maytag facility was closed while undergoing renovations.\n\n"}
{"id": "20073537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20073537", "title": "Metal Construction Association", "text": "Metal Construction Association\n\nThe Metal Construction Association (MCA) was formed in 1984 with a focus on growing the use of metal in construction through marketing, education, and selective action on public policies that affect metal’s use in building projects.\n\nThe concept of the MCA began in March 1983 when members of the now-defunct Metal Building Component Manufacturers Association wanted to create a new, expanded association. \n\nMCA took shape later that year when these companies contributed seed money for the new organization: American Building Components; Binkley Company; Corrugated Metal; Engineered Components; McElroy Metal; Metal Building Components Inc.; Moncrief Lenoir; and Omega Metal Building Products. \n\nThe new organization was officially named the Metal Construction Association and its purpose was—to promote the use of metal in all phases of construction and collectively oppose any legislation that deters the use of metal. \nToday, that remains the essence of MCA’s strategic focus - to grow the use of metal through marketing, education, and selective action on public policies that affect metal’s use in building projects. \n\nIn 1998 MCA helped establish the Metal Roofing Alliance, a national marketing initiative that has helped achieve MCA goals in the residential market. It’s a separately run entity closely aligned with MCA activities. In 2002,MCA worked with the American Iron and Steel Institute and the Metal Building Manufacturers Association (among others) as part of the Steel Coalition. In 2004, MCA launched The Metal Initiative a program that educates decision makers and influencers in the commercial building market.\n\n"}
{"id": "49611486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49611486", "title": "Mid-market awards", "text": "Mid-market awards\n\nThe CEO Connection Mid-Market Awards are a critical piece of a larger strategy to ensure the mid-market receives the attention it warrants as a job creator, a force for economic growth, and a driver of social impact. The Mid-Market Awards honor three mid-market leaders and one company that have demonstrated leadership, creativity, generosity and other qualities that represent the true spirit of the mid-market.\n\nAwardees are honored during a dedicated dinner held in conjunction with CEO Connection’s Mid-Market Convention, which is held at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nThe award categories include Mid-Market Company of the Year, Mid-Market CEO of the Year, Mid-Market Young Leader, and Mid-Market Social Impact Award. The Mid-Market Awards also includes presentation of a list of honorees of the Most Influential Women of the Mid-Market.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616765", "title": "Miguel Amaral", "text": "Miguel Amaral\n\nMiguel Maria de Sá Pais do Amaral, 4th Count of Alferrarede, KHDSMOM, commonly known as Miguel Amaral (born 31 July 1954) is a Portuguese aristocrat, businessman and amateur racing driver.\n\nMiguel Amaral, born in Lisbon, Portugal, is the only child of Manuel José Maria de Sá Pais do Amaral, 7th Count of Anadia and Dona Maria Mafalda de Figueiredo Cabral da Câmara, of the Counts of Belmonte\n\nHe married Maria da Luz Lagos do Amaral Cabral at Estoril on 5 November 1983. Maria was the daughter of Joaquim Emílio do Amaral Cabral, a lawyer, and Maria Elisabeth da Silva Lagos. Maria and Miguel had two daughters: Maria da Assunção de Sá Pais do Amaral, born at São Domingos de Benfica, Lisbon, on 29 December 1987; and Carolina Rita de Sá Pais do Amaral, born at São Domingos de Benfica, Lisbon, on 23 January 1991, before separating in 2010.\n\nA mechanical engineer diplomed with a MBA from INSEAD, Amaral was the former majority owner of the Media Capital group, a conglomerate that owns the TVI TV channel and several radio stations, including Rádio Comercial and Rádio Clube Português in Portugal. He sold a majority stake in the group to PRISA in 2005.\n\nHis current business interests are concentrated in Quifel Group, via 4 sub-holdings: a) Almanac; b) Quifel Natural Resources; c) AHS Investimentos; d) Partgris. Through these investment vehicles, Miguel Pais do Amaral has relevant stakes in companies such as LeYa, The Edge Group, Campo Largo Patrimonial, Ikaros-Hemera, Novabase, Reditus, Fitness Hut, Casa da Anadia and others. The majority of his investments are concentrated in Portugal and Brazil in the Education, Renewable Energy and Real Estate.\n\nHe began racing in the Portuguese Cross-Country Rally Championship, as well as in the Portuguese Classic Touring Car Championship. In 2001, he teamed up with Pedro Couceiro to drive in the Spanish GT Championship before the two joined ASM Team. Later, he teamed up with Miguel de Castro driving a Porsche 997 GT3 RSR, and in 2009 he won the Trofeu Iberico de GT.\n\nIn 2006. Amaral purchased a Lola B05/40 Le Mans prototype, formerly run by Chamberlain-Synergy Motorsports in the Le Mans Series. After one win under the Chamberlain name, the team scored two more victories as ASM, but this prevented Amaral and his co-drivers Miguel Angel de Castro and Angel Burgueño from winning their class. Amaral and ASM Team continue to run their Lola in the Le Mans Series in 2007 and 2008. In 2009, Amaral and Olivier Pla raced a Ginetta-Zytek GZ09S/2, and won the LMP2 championship.\n"}
{"id": "6340454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6340454", "title": "Miroslav Mišković", "text": "Miroslav Mišković\n\nMiroslav Mišković (; born July 5, 1945) is a Serbian business magnate, investor, and owner of Delta Holding. Mišković is richest person in Serbia with an average net worth of $4.6 billion. \nMišković's net worth was estimated to be $2 billion in 2007, according to the list of 100 wealthiest persons of the post-communist countries made by Polish magazine \"Wprost\"..Mišković holds 42nd place on this list, but is fifth among the tycoons outside the former Soviet Union. According to the 2007 list of the richest people in the world, published annually by Forbes magazine, Mišković is a newcomer to this list, taking the 891st spot, with a net worth of $1 billion. He is the first person from Serbia to enter this list. He was not listed in the latest Forbes' 2016 list so it's assumed that his net worth went significantly down in the recent years.\n\nMišković was born in 1945 in the small village of Bošnjane, Central Serbia. He was raised and lived on his family's farm. At age eight, Mišković was almost blinded in his left eye when a playmate accidentally struck him with a rock while playing with a slingshot, losing 90% of his vision. Mišković completed his high school education in the nearby city of Kruševac and graduated from the University of Belgrade's Faculty of Economics branch in Kragujevac in 1971, majoring in finance and economics. Afterwards, he worked at Jugobanka and Trayal until 1977, when he found work at Župa Chemical Industries (ZCI). \n\nMišković became financial director of ZCI in 1984, and chief executive in 1987 until 1990, when he briefly served as deputy prime minister in the government of Serbia for only six months in office. Meanwhile, Mišković founded Delta M (Delta M being a sort of abbreviation of his initials - \"double M\") in 1991, a company that became very successful in the following years, during the Yugoslav wars and under the regime of Slobodan Milošević. Soon afterwards, he launched Delta banka (sold to Banca Intesa in 2005), that was to become the first part of Mišković's extremely successful Delta Holding corporation that is involved in agribusiness, retail sales, distribution, financial brokerage, real estate development and insurance.\n\nMišković's connection to Slobodan Milošević was never obvious, except for his short stint as deputy prime minister in 1990. After the overthrow of Milošević's regime, Mišković was linked to Dušan Mihajlović, the minister of police at the time, and the other leaders of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia coalition. \n\nAfter 5 October 2000, Mišković took an advantage of privatisation and started building his empire. As he has managed to purchase most of large companies post Djindjic murder, it is often argued that Mišković was 'buying Serbia' with money that was taken out to Cyprus during Milosevic reign. \n\nMišković is today considered to be a figure of great influence on the leading politicians in Serbia. \n\nMišković was abducted on 9 April 2001, but was released the next day, when the ransom (estimated at about 7 million Deutsche Mark's) was paid 18 hours later. After the assassination of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Đinđić on 12 March 2003, the abduction of Mišković was attributed to the same group that has been convicted of the death of the prime minister and other similar crimes. He was owner of Maxi and Delta stores, but sold them to Belgian Delhaize for 1 billion euros.\n\nOn 12 December 2012, Mišković was detained along with his son Marko and eight others in connection with the privatization of several public road maintenance companies in 2005 during which the suspects allegedly “gained illegal profit” of about €30 million ($38.98 million). Mišković and Milo Đurašković, who was also arrested, were “co-owners in privatized road companies between 2005 and 2010” and they “usurped money and property of those companies worth about 2.87 billion dinars at the time,” Serbian Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime said in a televised statement, adding that the partnership between the two began in 2005 when Mišković’s Cyprus-based company Hemslade Trading Ltd. purchased a road maintenance company based in Belgrade for €23 million.\n\nMišković was released from custody on 22 July 2013, after posting a €12 million bail. In March 2016 he was acquitted by the Belgrade High Court of the abuse of office charges but found guilty of aiding and abetting in tax evasion. On appeal the Appellate Court in Belgrade upheld the ruling of the first-instance court, acquitting Mišković of the abuse of office charges, but referred the case back to the first-instance court for retrial in regard to the tax evasion charges.\n\n"}
{"id": "44714075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44714075", "title": "Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani", "text": "Mohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani\n\nMohammed Ibrahim Al Shaibani (Arabic: محمد إبراهيم الشيباني), also known as His Excellency Mohammed Al Shaibani (or Al Shaibani, b. 1964,) is a non-royal government official in Dubai, U.A.E, who is the current Director General of The Ruler’s Court, Government of Dubai (also known as Al Diwan Al Amiri, or Diwan Al Hakim), a prime government body of the Emirate of Dubai.\n\nIn addition, Mohammed Al Shaibani acts as the CEO and Executive Director of the Investment Corporation of Dubai, the investment arm of the emirate, which manages and grows its wealth. He also serves as the Vice Chairman of the Supreme Fiscal Committee of Dubai, which is responsible for overseeing its general fiscal policies. He is a member of the Executive Council of Dubai, an entity that oversees and supports government bodies in the emirate.\n\nAl Shaibani serves as Chairman of Dubai Islamic Bank (DIB), the first shariah-compliant lender in the world and one of the country’s largest banks in terms of assets. In addition, he sits on the boards of several government-related organizations in the U.A.E., such as Dubai World and Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE) Limited.\nHe has been credited with directing the successful restructuring of the debt of Dubai following the government default incurred by Dubai World in 2009. As the Director General of The Ruler’s Court, Al Shaibani has championed anti-corruption efforts targeting corporations in the U.A.E.\n\nIn 2013, Mohammed Al Shaibani has been named Deputy Chairman of the Higher Preparatory Committee of the World Expo 2020 to be held in Dubai. As such, he reviews the preparations and progress of the universal fair. Dubai Expo 2020, under the theme “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future,” will celebrate cultural diversity and will feature technological innovations.\n\nHe was ranked the most influential non-royal official in U.A.E. by the Wall Street Journal in 2010 and one of the country’s ten most influential people by Your Middle East platform in 2013. That year, Mohammed Al Shaibani was also considered as the sixth of the 500 most powerful Arabs in the world by Arabian Business, and he was named the 17th of the 100 most powerful Arabs in 2014 by Gulf Business.\n\nMohammed Al Shaibani graduated from the United States of America in 1988 with a Bachelor of Computer Science. He started his career at Dubai Ports Authority and Jebel Ali Free Zone, where he worked for seven years. After that, he moved to Singapore where he spent four years as Managing Director of Al Khaleej Investments.\n\nSince 1998 Al Shaibani has held the status of President at the Dubai Office, a private management entity for the Royal Family of Dubai. In this capacity, he represented the interests of the ruling family in London for eight years from 1999 to 2007. He currently oversees the functioning of this office from Dubai.\n\nMohammed Al Shaibani is also a member of the Executive Council, Government of Dubai, which was created in 2003 to support government authorities in maintaining the stability and organization of the emirate, in addition to developing its society and economy. Moreover, the Executive Council is responsible for setting and implementing the general strategy of Dubai, as well as enforcing local laws. The Council also sets the annual budget for the Government of Dubai, and ensures the smooth functioning of government bodies among other administrative duties.\n\nAl Shaibani also serves as the Vice Chairman of the Supreme Fiscal Committee (SFC) of Dubai since its inception in 2007. This five-man committee supervises the Dubai Financial Support Fund, which provides loans on a commercial basis to government and government-related entities that are of strategic importance to the development of the Emirate of Dubai. The SFC assesses and approves the loan criteria needed to grant the financial support to entities and projects, and reviews applications proposed by the fund's board. It also determines the size and terms of each loan as well as the nature of the related securities and guarantees.\n\nIn 2008, Al Shaibani was appointed Director General of The Ruler’s Court, Government of Dubai, by Emiri decree issued by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, ruler of Dubai. The Ruler’s Court or Diwan is the traditional seat of power in Dubai and various government units operate under its umbrella, such as the Department of Finance, Dubai Courts and the Executive Council, to name a few. In this role, Mohammed Al Shaibani initiated in 2008 a wave cracking down corporate corruption in Dubai.\n\nMohammed Al Shaibani’s strong knowledge of Islamic financial services led him to be selected as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dubai Islamic Bank (DIB) in 2008, one the U.A.E’s largest banks. DIB is also considered as the first bank in the world to apply Islamic principles in all its practices. \n\nAn Emiri decree issued in 2012 by Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, ruler of Dubai, reaffirmed Al Shaibani as CEO and Executive Director of the Investment Corporation of Dubai (ICD), the investment arm that consolidates the assets of the Government of Dubai. Such assets contribute to the growth of Dubai and range from leading financial services companies to local real estate giants, including renowned transportation and utilities corporations.\n\nIn 2010, Al Shaibani has been appointed as a member of the Board of Directors of Dubai World, the government-owned holding focused on urban development. His experience as an administrator and corporate leader proved to be pivotal in the restructuring of the US$25 billion debt pile of the holding, which enabled it to return to the international bond market.\n\nAfter acquiring the entertainment resort Atlantis the Palm in 2013, ICD has purchased significant equity interest in the international firm that manages it, Kerzner International. This was followed by Mohammed Al Shaibani replacing Sol Kerzner as the Chairman of the international luxury hotels developer after the latter’s retirement in April 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55968807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55968807", "title": "Nancy Onyango", "text": "Nancy Onyango\n\nNancy Asiko Onyango, commonly known as Nancy Onyango, is a Kenyan accountant, businesswoman and corporate executive, who is the Director of the Office of Internal Audit and Inspection at the International Monetary Fund. She was appointed on 4 December 2017, with the appointment to take effect on 1 February 2018. Before her appointment, she served as the CEO of Reliance Risk Advisory Solutions, a Nairobi-based consultancy firm.\n\nShe was born in Kenya, attending local schools for her pre-university education. In 1984, she was admitted to the University of Nairobi (UoN), graduating in 1987, with a Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) degree in Accounting and Finance. She continued with her studies at UoN, graduating in 1989, with a Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree. Later in 2013, she enrolled into the United States International University Africa, graduating in 2016, with a Doctor of Business Administration (DrBA) degree. As part of her doctoral studies, she took courses at Columbia Business School, in New York City.\n\nFor a period of nearly for years, from July 1995 until December 1998, she worked as a manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers, at their location in Uxbridge, London, United Kingdom. Following that, she was promoted to senior manager at the same firm, where she worked for another three and half years until August 2002. In July 2005, she was appointed Partner at PwC, leading the consulting unit at PwC East Africa, based in Nairobi, Kenya, specializing in technology, governance risk and compliance, serving in that capacity until June 2012. In July 2012, she was named the head of the then newly created Risk Assurance Services Unit at PwC East Africa, serving there until October 2014.\n\nIn January 2015, for a period of 20 months, she was appointed partner at Ernst & Young, serving as the head of governance, risk & compliance for the African continent, until August 2016. In December 2017, she was appointed to lead the Internal Audit unit at the IMF, effective February 2018.\n\nShe holds several board appointments, including as (a) Non-executive director of Kenya Commercial Bank Group (b) Non-executive director of Cytonn Investments (c) Fairtrade Africa, where she chairs the board's audit and finance committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2520082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2520082", "title": "OPMS", "text": "OPMS\n\nThe practical 'One Page Management System' (OPMS) has evolved to enable 'people-at-large' and experts design and implement effective systems of all kinds.\n\nGS Chandy invented ‘One Page Management System’ (OPMS) sometime in 1981-82, based on the seminal contributions to systems science by the late John John N. Warfield - and has been developing it every since.\n\nOPMS springs naturally from Interactive Management (IM), the powerful system methodologies that derive from Professor John N. Warfield’s “structural approach to system design”.\n\nThe application of the method also has been carried forward and codified by other entrepreneurial practitioners in worldwide applications, and an illustration of the scope of penetration of the method has recently been summarized by Alexander Christakis, a long-standing collaborator of Dr. John N. Warfield.\n\nInteractive Management consists of tools to:\n\nOPMS now enables all of the above to be done by 'people-at-large' as well as by experts to create and implement truly usable systems of all kinds - individual, organisational or societal.\n\nIn brief, OPMS enables individual and group users to:\n\n1. Choose an appropriate 'Mission' depending on problem-situation confronted;\n\n2. Identify the issue or problem confronted – this naturally provides a simple 'Mission statement';\n\n3. *Integrate* all the good ideas available to tackle the problem or issue at hand – with a view to enable accomplishment of the chosen Mission. (Integrating 'good ideas' includes getting rid of the bad ideas that are always cluttering up the 'mindspace' – think about it and this will be obvious to you).\n\nThat's it!\n\nAnd that's what the OPMS all about!\n\nJust 'integrating' your available good ideas (AND getting rid of your bad ideas)!!\n\n[Of course, it often is quite a job to decide which are the 'good' ideas and which are the 'bad' ideas – but OPMS helps users arrive at sound decisions, via effective debate between stakeholders to the chosen issue/Mission].\n\nThe structuring tools of OPMS have developed from the powerful 'systems modeling' tools invented by Warfield in a three-decade long study of “complexity in systems and how to enable people to cope with it” - made easy to use for the 'people-at-large'.\n\nThese tools are:\n(Now rendered understandable by any high-school student within a couple of hours, and practically applicable by him/her/them to issues of practical concern within a couple of weeks [at most]).\n\nMore information about the OPMS can be sent if desired as attachments to an email message if you'll send an inquiry to gs_chandy_AT_yahoo.com - this information will include:\n\n-- brief description of the OPMS; \n-- 'provenance'; \n-- 'Missions' to which OPMS has been successfully employed (and also some Missions where OPMS has not been successful yet; \n-- a sizable listing of possible Missions); \n-- an illustration of the kind of a systems model (and Interpretive Structural Model [ISM]), which can readily be developed into Action Planning along with all needed subsystems to help accomplish any chosen Mission.\n\n(Limited) guidance can also be provided to help interested users initiate Action Planning on any chosen Mission - and copies of the prototype OPMS software would be freely provided - no fees or charges of any kind whatsoever.\n"}
{"id": "34913463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34913463", "title": "Ori Yogev", "text": "Ori Yogev\n\nOri Yogev (; born November 3, 1960) is an Israeli businessman who served as the appointed head of the Budget Division in the Ministry of Finance between 2002 and 2004. In 2009-2010 he was served as the Chairman of the Israel National Economic Council Advisory Committee. from 2013-2017 Yogev served at the director of the Government Companies Authority. Yogev lives in Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut and is married with five children.\n\nYogev was born in Safed to parents who worked in the public sector. His father worked in the Department of Agriculture and his mother worked for the Tel Aviv Municipality. His childhood was spent in Haifa and Tel Aviv where he attended the Alliance High School. In the IDF he served as a captain in the Intelligence Corps.\n\nYogev has a BA in Economics from Tel Aviv University and an MA \"cum laude\" in Economics from The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He began his career in the Ministry of Finance at age 26 working as a referent in the area of subsidies and government imports. Within a year, he was appointed senior adviser to the director of The Ministry of Finance, a position he held until leaving in 1990.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1993 Yogev managed the Jerusalem district as V.P of \"Ha Magen\" insurance company. Between 1993 and 2001 he was CEO of 'Ha'saneh' insurance company downsized. Between 1994 and 1997 he served as CEO of 'Omni Food' Brands, a 'Domino's Pizza' franchise and 'Häagen-Dazs'. During this period he succeeded in significantly boosting the activities of the pizzeria chain.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2001 he was CEO of 'Bezeq International', a period characterized by the opening of the market to competition in international calling and the company entered the field of internet access provision.\n\nIn 2002 Yogev was appointed by then Finance Minister Silvan Shalom as head of the Budget Division – the highest public sector position in the economic field. He served in this position until April 2004. His appointment coincided with a recession in Israel's economy due to the high-tech crash and the Second Intifada. The treasury worked to pass legislation for the Emergency Economic Plan, and under the leadership of Benjamin Netanyahu, who replaced Shalom in 2003, pursued a liberal economic policy. This included extensive cuts in government spending and comprehensive reforms. Yogev led both the drafting and implementation of these reforms.\n\nDuring his tenure, automatic increases in governmental budgets by means of indices such as linkage and natural population growth were revoked and replaced by a law that capped annual budget growth at 1%. Welfare benefits were linked to the CPI (Consumer Price Index) instead of an average salary, child allowances were reduced and the budgetary pension of civil servants was replaced by a cumulative pension. The retirement age was raised, and the number of public sector workers reduced. The Labor Union (Histadrut) pension funds were also nationalized. According to Yogev, the overall plan implemented in this period was based on the approach not to harm the wealthier echelons (so that they would not leave the country), while the period of recession in these years was used to promote the reduction of organized labor in the economy.\n\nAfter his departure, Yogev continued to serve for several months as a consultant to the treasury which led to the ports reform – a reform that he had championed during his tenure. Yogev is regarded as Benjamin Netanyahu's economic ideologue.\n\nIn 2004, Yogev began representing Australian businessman John Gandel's investments in Israel. His activities included investment in Plastro Irrigation Systems, the public company controlled by Kibbutz Gvat. Yogev was appointed as executive chairman of the company, until the Gandel Group's shares were sold to the John Deere company twenty months later.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007, working on behalf of the Kibbutz Lohamei HaGeta'ot, Yogev led partnership negotiations between Osem and Tivol, as well as the sale of the kibbutz's stake to Nestlé.\n\nIn recent years, Yogev has focused on the water and cleantech industries in Israel. Yogev founded Waterfronts – Israel Water Alliance, and continues to serve as chairman of the association. The association works to promote Israel's status as a global leader in advanced water solutions.\n\nIn 2006, he established Whitewater Holdings, operating in the field of water quality and control and investing in developing technologies to ensure the quality and safety of drinking water. Whitewater provides a comprehensive and synergistic environment, servicing municipalities in developed countries with tailored solutions. It mission is to help municipalities and water authorities guarantee a constant supply of quality water, by optimizing the production, management, control and delivery of water through the synergistic application of the latest water technologies. Following the realization of his holdings in Plastro, Yogev purchased Gandel's part in the company and brought in businesswoman Hanna Gertler as a partner.\n\nWhitewater Holdings has three subsidiaries: Whitewater Technologies (integrated management, optimization and analytics), which holds a daughter company located in Akron USA, Galcon (smart irrigation and pressure management) and CheckLight (toxicity analyzer).\n\nIn April 2013, Whitewater Technologies was chosen by Bloomberg as one of 10 companies named the 2013 New Energy Pioneer. A team of independent experts chose the ten winning companies from over 200 candidates, in the energy, water and clean-tech sector. The selection committee stated the winners as \"representing the technology and business model innovation which will enable the transformation to a more resource efficient economy environment\". The selection was made based on three criteria – innovation, proven momentum in its field and potential for global deployment.\nIn 2009, Yogev was appointed as Chairman of National Economic Council Advisory Committee and to the Prime Minister and lead the financial program and the Package deal with the Israeli Labor Union (Histadrut).\nIn that year, The Marker magazine ranked Yogev ninth in its list of the most influential people in the Israeli economy, based on his tenure as a consultant to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (Chairman of the National Economic Advisory Council and to the Prime Minister).\n\nIn 2010 Yogev became one of the architects of the 'Israel Ways' program for massive development of the Israel Railways' infrastructure. The plan was approved by the Netanyahu government, and Yogev was appointed as chairman of its Advisory Committee and chairman of the Railway Board till mid 2013.\nDuring his tenure as a Chairman, a profound change of personnel structure took place and the Chairman of committee, Gila Edrei, was dismissed.\n\nfrom September 2013 to September 2017 Yogev served as the general manager of the Government Companies Authority.\n\nIn his capacity as director of the Government Companies Authority, Yogev initiated the reform in government companies. The purpose of the reform, which is based on the OECD's concept of managing government companies, is to transform government companies into a property for them, while improving the efficiency and level of service they provide to citizens in Israel.\n\nThe government companies that lost NIS 600 million in 2013 went to an aggregate profit of NIS 2.6 billion in 2016 and are expected to earn more than NIS 3 billion in 2017, with all major government companies earning the first time.\n\nIn November 2013, the Directors' team was launched, which was aimed at ending the political involvement in government companies.\n\nFor the 2014 team came 13,795 candidates, of whom 500 were selected finalists. About 7,100 candidates went to the 2015 team, of whom the 500 finalists recommended to government ministers were located. The number of directors of 2017 was 9,266, of which 400 candidates were added to the 500 candidates from the previous year's board of directors. As of 2017, the 250 elected directors are the elected candidates.\n\nSince the establishment of the Directors' team, the number of women represented on boards of directors has risen to fifty percent. In addition, ten percent of directors belong to minority groups. A report prepared by the Government Companies Authority indicated that since the establishment of the directors' team, the percentage of family members in government companies has fallen by 80%.\n\nYogev supports extensive scaling back and privatization of the public sector as well as the transfer of government controlled activities and assets to the private sector. According to this approach, the state should buy services (including social services and education) from private companies rather than provide them. Yogev aggressively opposes the existence of monopolies, including government monopolies, and has called for the dismantling of the Israel Lands Administration and the transfer of land in its possession to private ownership. In addition, the breaking of the monopoly of the largest commercial banks. However, he declared that even a privately owned monopoly is preferable to a government-controlled entity.\n\nYogev was responsible for drastically cutting allowances in the first decade of the 21st century, but also for supporting the Wisconsin plan encouraging work by reducing benefits, and investment in the transportation infrastructure. He called for the cancellation of the collective agreements with teachers and for enabling school administrators to hire teachers with private contracts and to purchase teaching services from private companies. He supported the separation of water and sewage departments of local authorities, and the establishment of independent water and sewage corporations.\n\nYogev is aggressively opposed to the existence of organized labor, and sees it as a burden on the economy and the leading cause of mediocrity and lack of professionalism. He said that there is no need for organized labor in Israel, since the state takes responsibility for maintaining the rights of employees, while the Labour Union mainly protects the major labor committees, but not workers in small companies and businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "13478790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13478790", "title": "Partnership (Australia)", "text": "Partnership (Australia)\n\nIn Australia, each state has enacted legislation regarding partnerships.\nThe definition of a partnership does not vary across jurisdictions, with each definition encompassing the following criteria in determining the existence of a partnership:\n\nAs to whether any given person involved with a company is a 'partner', guidance is found in s.6 of the Act. Several rules are given. The most common are as follows:\nRule 1 – s.6(1)provides that there must be joint-ownership. This is rather self-explanatory but the mere fact that persons may be joint-tenants or have part ownership do not in themselves create a partnership. Typically, where the rules below point towards a partnership, such would generally satisfy this rule.\nGenerally speaking, 'partners' must share gross-returns each according to their share in the business. Thus at first instance, if persons share the gross-returns, one would be inclined to say that a partnership exists. However, rule 2- s.6(2) complicates this. It provides that the sharing of gross returns will not in itself create a partnership.\n\nAll this notwithstanding, sharing of gross-returns is a strong indication of a partnership – particularly where a set percentage is prescribed in the agreement.\nRule 3- s 6(3) provides that the sharing of profits is prima facie evidence that a partnership exists. However, this is not categorical. To cite two examples where a person entitled to a share was not a partner is where that such person is a creditor or by virtue of s.6(3)(b) where that 'sharing of profits' is simply remuneration or a wage. Note in the latter example, s.28(6) provides that although partners are not entitled to remuneration – and thus he who receives remuneration is prima facie not a partner – this may be varied by partnership agreement. Therefore, receiving remuneration does not conclusively indicate against a partnership.\nRule 3 – s6(3) also concerns sharing of profits. Section 28 explains that all partners must contribute equally to firm’s losses.\nGenerally, where a person exercises those rights that would typically be exercised by a true partner, the more likely a partnership can be imputed. Section 28 includes a non-exhaustive list of partner’s rights.\n\nThe most common partners rights are the right to participate in the firms management (s.28(5)) (which can be illustrated by attending meetings) and the right to access the firm's books and confidential financial reports (s.28(9)). A partner without the right to participate in the firms management is often referred to as a \"silent partner\".\n\nBut, at the end of the day there is flexibility in the partnership agreement and it is possible for the partners to consensually agree to exclude one or more of these partner's rights in relation to any given partner. Thus, put simply, the mere fact a person does not exercise these rights does not indicate categorically that they are not a partner.\n\nPerhaps the most important question for any partner is 'what is my liability under this arrangement'.\n\nIn essence, the liability of a partner (or even a non-partner who was 'held out' to be a partner \"see below\") is significantly large. Every partner or person held out to be a partner is both an agent and principal of the firm and may thus bind the firm and the partners: s.9. Simply, each partner is his brother's proverbial keeper and will be responsible both legally and financially for the actions of the other partners in the general course of business.\n\nTo give a clear example, where one partner acts negligently and there is no indemnity insurance (or the indemnity insurer refuses to cover the loss), the liability of all partners will be joint and several: s.16. The cause of major distress for partners arises where the other partners become insolvent. The weight of total liability would rest on the solvent partners. Thus put simply, even if a person only had a 25% partner's share, he or she would be responsible for covering all 100% (potentially exorbitantly exceeding their investment) of the damage arising from the negligence if the other partners do not have the means to pay.\n\nAs alluded to above, the issue of \"holding out\", which is discussed in s.18(1) of the Act, is particularly relevant. \"Holding out\" refers to where a non-partner advertises himself \"or\" alternatively is advertised to the world as being a partner. This advertising can be either explicit and/or implicit\n\nFor example, where the firm permits a non-partner to 'sign off' on company accounts or documents or where a non-partner has an office next to the partner's or even enjoys the perks of the true partners, these are implicit indication to the world that the non-partner is actually a partner. To exemplify express indications, this would occur where a non-partner has his name on the company letter-head or to go even further, actively introduces himself as a partner.\n\nNot only may the non-partner be held to be liable as a partner, the true partners will also be liable for the non-partners actions just as they would be for the actions of a true partner. This is provided that the relevant third-party was reasonably unaware of the non-partner's true position in the business and the conduct on the non-partner could be described as in the ordinary course of business. These two are generally part and parcel as if the transaction is not in the ordinary course of business, then the less likely it is that a third party would genuinely believe that the non-partner was a partner.\n\nLimited Partnerships are governed by Part III of the Act. The paramount characteristic of such a partnership is that a limited partner's liability will be \"limited\": See s.49(1) definition.\n\nSection 60(1) indicates that the liability of limited partner limited to amount shown in Register (Register of Limited Partnerships, \"see\" s. 57). Typically, a limited partner would make a contribution to the capital or assets of the partnership. An interpretation of s.60(2) suggests that the limited partner's liability would not exceed the contribution made or promised.\n\nOther key points to note are that:\n\nDissolution of a partnership occurs when there is a change in the relationship of the partners, as a result of a partner ceasing to be associated or a part of carrying on the business. Situations which can be a catalyst for dissolution are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45630395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45630395", "title": "Pavel Tykač", "text": "Pavel Tykač\n\nPavel Tykač (born 15 May 1964 in Čelákovice) is a Czech entrepreneur and investor with long-term experience in the energy sector. At present, he is the sole owner of Sev.en Energy Group, a major player in the Czech energy market which is planning to expand to the European energy market. His wealth is estimated at US$1.03 billion, which according to Forbes magazine makes him the fifth richest person in the Czech Republic (Forbes rankings 2015). Together with his wife, Pavel Tykač is significantly engaged in charity projects and support for the North Bohemian Region and the Pardubice Region.\n\nPavel Tykač started his entrepreneurial career after the Revolution by sale of computer technology. In the beginning of the 90s he and his partners established Vikomt company which had a great break through on the market. He sold his share of the company in the middle of the 90s. He used the acquired money to buy at the time small Regiobanka in Karlovy Vary (today`s Hypoteční banka); he subsequently sold it to IPB at a very advantageous price. Already at that time he was considered to be a very rich man. In 1995 he participated in the creation of free community of investors around Motoinvest whose participants gained shares in several banks and investment funds thanks to buying cheap shares after the privatization. Forced termination of their activities has led to the rapid sale of assets of the majority of participants in this community. At the turn of the millennium, after several years in seclusion, Tykač returned to the world of big business. Share trades (mainly electricity company ČEZ and Telefónica) and currency rate movement speculations are probably the biggest source of Tykač`s billion-dollar assets. \n\nIn 2006, he entered the energy sector by investing in a minority stake in the Czech Coal mining group. In 2010, he became its sole owner. During that period, Pavel Tykač significantly developed the company in the energy sector and, primarily, invested in the know-how in assets and energy market. In 2013, he bought the Chvaletice Power Station, creating a new entity in the domestic energy market. In 2017, he completed a commercially successful period with several major contracts, rebranding Czech Coal to Sev.en Group. In 2018, he decided to enter the European energy market through the emerging Sev.en Energy (SE) holding, which relies on renowned experts. The new company will focus on investing in innovative technologies in energy, as well as in operating and innovating conventional resources that will enable European energy systems to switch to renewable resources in the long run.\n\nThis is a foundation established by Pavel and Ivana Tykač. Its mission is to support single mothers in need. It provides supported housing, as well as legal and psychosocial assistance. It also operates the “Lunch for Children” programme, which covers school meals for socially disadvantaged pupils. The programme is nationwide – the number of participants exceeds many thousands and is constantly expanding. The regular annual contribution is about CZK 20 million.\n\nA grant programme for schools in the Most Region providing modern and otherwise inaccessible teaching equipment. In 2017, the 8th year of the programme was held. The amount of the financial contribution is about CZK 2 million per year.\n\nThis is a long-term partnership where a specific municipality identifies areas of interest in which the Sev.en Group companies will be financially involved. The partnership is generally focused on the construction of playgrounds and sports grounds, support for youth sports and community activities.\n\nThe support for the handball team from Most has a long tradition. Thanks to this support, the women’s team from Most reached the top of the Czech league and regularly participates in European club competitions. It has great public support and constantly developing youth facilities in the region. \n\nBased on the cooperation agreement, Sev.en Group covers programmes or activities selected by individual entities within the Ústí nad Labem Region.\n\nAs part of cooperation with the Most Hospital, the neonatal department of the Most Hospital was reconstructed in the monitored period.\n\nTykač studied at the Czech Technical University in Prague where he obtained an engineer's degree in 1987.\n\nAfter completing military service, he worked as a technician in the TOS Čelákovice. In 1990 he started to import and sell computer equipment, and later, in 1991, he founded Vikomt company with three other partners, which became one of the top three companies on the market in the first half of the nineties\n\nIn 1995 he sold his share and used the money (up to one billion dollars) to take over a small Regiobanka in Hradec Kralove, which he subsequently sold to IPB. IPB transformed it into Czechomoravian mortgage bank. The proceeds from this transaction were the source for his further activities.\n\nTykač gained a significant portion of his assets while trading with shares of the coupon privatization in the nineties. He participated in the creation of a free group of people and companies around Motoinvest (brokerage house) which the media later called \"the Motoinvest group\". The group shared common vision of the emergence of strong Czech financial and industrial group. Individual members of this group were massively buying shares from small shareholders during the privatization. Thanks to these activities the group gained shares in a number of large investment funds (e.g. funds managed by Komerční banka, ČSOB, Živnobanka, CS Funds, Creditanstalt or PPF), several banks (Credit banka Plzeň, Agrobanka) and many other major companies (e.g. Slovácké Machinery, Gravel and sand pits of Olomouc, ...).\n\nIn autumn 1996, after the purchase of a significant share in the then state-majority-owned Česká spořitelna and an attempt to gain influence and position among its authorities a hard clash between \"group Motoinvest\" on one side and the ČNB together with the then largest banks (Czech Savings Bank, Commercial Bank, ČSOB) on the other started blazing. The result was a forced administration of Agrobanka by ČNB. This forced investors around Motoinvest to a rapid sale of their assets; it caused their forced departure from the Czech capital market and extinction of the group.\n\nAt the beginning of the new millennium, after several years in seclusion, Tykač started to invest into equities on the Prague Stock Exchange and speculative trading in foreign currencies. He was trading with shares of Telefónica or Czech Radiokomunikace, but his best-known business has been a massive purchase of ČEZ shares at a time, when one share cost less than 100 CZK. Within a few years he was able to sell the same share for more than 1000 CZK. He was sure that ČEZ fusion with various regional distributors into \"SuperČEZ\" will result into a significant increase in the value of the investments in a relatively short time. According to some sources, he earned up to ten billion CZK solely on this transaction.\n\nIn 2002 he was involved in securing funding for the company EC Group, which won the tender for the purchase of receivables from the Czech Consolidation Agency in the nominal amount of 38 billion CZK. Czech Consolidation Agency (CKA) has been called the \"bad bank\" of the state, into which the problem loans from the privatization of large banks after debt relief were redirected. EC Group, which was then owned by former collaborators of Pavel Tykač Jan Dienstl and Pavel Šimek paid 3.4 billion CZK for a package of receivables. The group overpayed such renowned consortiums as Goldman Sachs / Flow East or PPF / CS First Boston, by about half a billion CZK. In 2003, the EC Group sued ČKA and demanded the return of about 570 mil CZK against portions of the claims that ČKA never owned due to legal shortcomings and therefore the claims could not even be sold. ČKA eventually returned about 440 mil CZK based on a judicial verdict.\n\nIn 2006 Tykač invested via a Cyprus company Indoverse Investment Limited into a minority share of the mining group Czech Coal. At the end of 2010 Indoverse Investment Limited became the sole 100% owner of the Czech Coal group.\n\nThe Czech Coal Group is one of the leading mining and energy groups in the Czech Republic. Its core business is the production and sale of coal, sale of electricity and heat production. In the region of northern Bohemia, in which the group operates, they are one of the largest employers.\n\nIn the summer of 2013 Litvínovská uhelná a. s., which operates a ČSA mine and Chvaletice power plant purchased from the ČEZ group, separated from the Czech Coal group. This business move created a new group on the market called Severní energetická, in which Tykač owns a 40% share.\n\nTykač is the effective owner of Czech Coal with 50% of its shares. He originally purchased a 40% share in the company in spring 2006 and then quickly increased that share to 49% for allegedly nearly CZK 10 billon. Tykač purchased the additional 1% from his partners Petr Pudil and Vasil Bobela in 2009.\n\nApart from his holding in Czech Coal, Tykač also operates on the real estate and financial markets. He has been described as “a person with the reputation of an unscrupulous player and a secretive pirate of Czech business comparable to Gordon Gekko …, professing greed as the highest virtue”.\n\nHis earlier activities on the financial market in the 1990s included the acquisition of CS Fund, the asset manager of three smaller investment funds, which Tykač divested himself of just a few weeks before it was ‘tunneled’ or defrauded in March 1997. The most valuable acquisition of his investment company, Motoinvest, established in 1991, however, was Agrobanka. It was this company that financed most of Tykač’s activities, which before long led it to the brink of ruin as the bank was unable to meet its liabilities, leading to the intervention the Czech National Bank to rescue its clients by pumping CZK 20 billion into it. Tykač also acquired shares through Motoinvest in other banks whose capital was subsequently passed on to companies and funds linked to Tykač whereupon those banks also went bankrupt as a result of these transactions, e.g. Kreditní banka Plzeň, and Ekoagrobanka. As a result, he is often called \"the pest of the capital market\" in the Czech Republic, an appellation which he failed to have the Czech courts prohibit the magazine Respekt from using in connection with his person.\n\nTykač was investigated by the police in 2006 over the tunneling of CS Fund, but the prosecution was later suspended. Many of his former associates have been convicted of financial crimes and have often ended up behind bars, although Tykač himself has always remained at liberty. Investigations against him, however, continue. In 2012, František Bušek alleged in court that he assisted Tykač in defrauding CS Fund of CZK 1.23 billion. Tykač said the allegation was the result of an earlier failed attempt by Bušek to blackmail him. Tykač kept a very low profile from the late 1990s only to re-emerge in 2006 with his purchase of shares in Czech Coal, since when he has aggressively defended the price demands of the company and lobbied for the cancellation of the brown coal mining limits in North Bohemia, beyond which lie huge coal reserves.\n\nFurther examples of Tykač’s alleged unscrupulousness include posting letters to the wives of shareholders who were refusing to sell him a Czech Coal competitor, Sokolovské uhelné, urging them to talk their husbands into the deal, and the way he dealt with a run-down but listed residence he owned in the exclusive Prague quarter of Vinohrady – it mysteriously caught fire twice and was eventually demolished without permission.\n\nAt the turn of 2012-13, as the owner of Czech Coal, Tykač ended the so-called coal war about the price of brown coal with the ČEZ group. Eight years of conflict, which began even before Tykač joined the coal business, was terminated by a mutual agreement of the parties and by signing a 50-year contract about coal supply to the power plant Počerady.\n\nIn 2012 Tykač`s Czech Coal terminated the contract for the supply of coal to the power plant Opatovice, which belongs to the Energy and Industrial Holding (EPH) owned by Křetínský and JT Bank. Tykač justified this step by EPH having claims of half a billion CZK. The conflict between Czech Coal and EPH ended with amicable settlement in 2014. Part of the deal was the mutual termination of litigation.\n\nSince 2006 Tykač supported the minority shareholder of Sokolov coal company Jan Kroužecký in his conflict with the majority shareholders. Subsequent litigation lasted for years. In 2015 the whole issue ended in an agreement when Kroužecký sold his shares to the company, that was now completely controlled by its majority shareholders František Štěpánek and Jaroslav Rokos. The price of Kroužecký`s 30% share of the company was supposedly around 4-5 billion CZK. There are speculations that most of this money was received by Tykač, who had previously bought Kroužecký`s share. Only Štěpánek publicly addressed ending of the dispute by saying that the company bought Kroužecký`s share, there was a longstanding dispute settlement and that the parties consider the transaction to be positive and beneficial.\n\nIn 2013 weekly magazine Respekt published an information about the alleged freezing of Tykač`s assets of roughly 19 bil CZK by Swiss claimants. This should have occurred due to the renewed prosecution in the case of stripped assets of CS Funds in the Czech Republic. Tykač denied any blocking of his assets with a statement that it is a deliberate or unconscious attempt to prevent the signing of a contract between ČEZ and Czech Coal about a long-term supply of coal to power plant Počerady.\n\nOne of the media monitored cases associated with Pavel Tykač are the CS Funds. 1,3 bil CZK was fraudulently withdrawn from the funds in 1997. Four offenders were convicted in 2001 (legally effective in 2007.) In 2006 prosecution of Tykač and another five people started. The prosecution of Tykač and other three suspects was terminated after a review by the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in 2008 with the conclusion that the conduct of these persons in connection with CS Funds had not been a criminal offense. The remaining two suspects were indicted in the same year, but were subsequently freed by the Municipal Court in Prague in 2012.\n\nTykač`s involvement in the money withdrawal from the CS Funds became a subject of criminal prosecution again in 2013, when criminal proceedings against him were resumed. New facts that led to the restoration of the process were represented by a particularly dubious testimony of people who either changed their testimony or refused to testify in the retrial. Based on this testimony, the police and the prosecution tried to secure Tykač`s property twice. In both cases the court found the decision as unjustified and it was canceled.\n\nIn March 2015 the police investigation ended after two and a half years with a recommendation for indictment submitted to the Chief Prosecutor's Office in Prague.\n\nIn December 2015 the High Prosecutor's Office in Prague terminated the prosecution against Tykač. State prosecutor Zdeněk Matula stated in the preamble that no evidence of Tykač`s guilt had been found. This verdict thus ended 19 years of CS Funds cause. In his interview for Forbes magazine in 2014 Tykač stated that, in his opinion, the money from the funds disappeared during the management of its new owners, to whom the funds were sold by the Motoinvest group after pressure caused by a hostile attack of ČNB. This caused a wave of inspections of tax authorities, the Stock Exchange, Securities Office, a wave of police interrogations and strongly negative media atmosphere directed against \"Motoinvest group\".\n\nThrough his company Czech Coal and Vršanská uhelná Tykač supports number of projects and activities related to the region in northern Bohemia, for example, a grant program to support education called Clever Heads for the North, the top club of Women Handball DHK Baník Most, he also supports municipalities in the region, an example is his investment into the reconstruction of the Most hospital.\n\nTogether with his second wife Ivana Tykač established a non-profit organization Women for Women that is helping women and single mothers with children who find themselves in difficult circumstances and can not solve them on their own. The organization provides them with subsidized housing, psychosocial and legal assistance.\n\nWomen for Women, o.p.s. is the initiator and operator of the Czech largest award-winning project that provides school meals to starving children in Czech elementary schools - Lunches for children. This project fed nearly 2,100 children in almost 500 schools during the 2014/2015 school year.\n\nPavel Tykač is married for the second time. Together with his wife Ivana Tykač is raising eight children. He currently lives with his family in Switzerland.\n\nTykač played competitive table tennis in his youth, nowadays he plays recreational tennis and badminton league in Prague.\n"}
{"id": "31189659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31189659", "title": "Rob Chapman (businessman)", "text": "Rob Chapman (businessman)\n\nRob Chapman (born 1964) is a South Australian-born businessman, CEO of St George Bank and Chairman of the Adelaide Football Club and Adelaide Airport. He is considered to be one of South Australia's most influential people.\n\nChapman was born in 1964 at Mount Barker and educated at Sacred Heart College.\n\nChapman's early career was spent in the insurance and funds management industry, initially in Adelaide, then in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne before returning to Adelaide and taking executive roles in banking. He has held senior appointments at:\n\n\nChapman was first appointed chairman of the board of directors of the Adelaide Football Club in December 2008 for 2009. He was reappointed chairman for 2010 and 2011.\n\nChapman is married to Lisa. They have four children, two of whom are young adults, a teenage daughter, and a young son.\n\n"}
{"id": "31019179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31019179", "title": "Sibos (conference)", "text": "Sibos (conference)\n\nSibos (Swift International Banking Operations Seminar), is an annual banking and financial conference organized by the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) in various cities around the world. It has been held most frequently in cities in Europe, such as Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Berlin, and Helsinki, as well as other cities (such as Boston) in North America and Sydney in Australia. In recent years, it has also been held more frequently in Asia, Oceania, and other regions.\n\nThe first Sibos was held in 1978 in Brussels. The Sibos in 1990 was held in Berlin shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall.\nThe conference has an annual turnout of over 7,000 participants from around the world representing the financial services industry. The highest turnout was in the 2010 conference held at Amsterdam which had about 9,600 participants.\n\nPeople who work in financial markets around the world participate as exhibitors and attendees and discuss issues relevant to the financial industry. Topics at the 2009 event in Hong Kong were integrated risk management, innovation, and cash/treasury management.\n\n"}
{"id": "20117121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20117121", "title": "Siri Fürst", "text": "Siri Fürst\n\nSiri Fürst (born 1958) is a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nShe was a partner in the Considium Consulting Group. Educated at the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration, she worked in Hafslund, Hafslund Nycomed and Nycomed Pharma from 1984 to 1999 and as managing director of DiaGenic from 1999 to 2003.\n\nShe is a member of the board of Aker Solutions.\n"}
{"id": "19499747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19499747", "title": "Socialist Workers' Sport International", "text": "Socialist Workers' Sport International\n\nSocialist Workers' Sport International (, SASI) was an international socialist sporting organisation, based in Lucerne. It was founded in 1920, and consisted of six national federations (with a combined membership of about one million) at the time of its foundation. Initially it was known as International Association for Sports and Physical Culture. Informally it was known as the Lucerne Sport International. It adopted the name SASI in 1926. The Austro-Marxist Julius Deutsch was the president of SASI.\n\nInternational Labour Sports Federation (CSIT) was established in 1946 as the successor of SASI.\n\nAn international meeting of workers sports associations had been held in Ghent, Belgium, in 1913. However, the First World War put the build-up of an international workers' sport organisation on hold. After the war two Belgians, Gaston Bridoux and Jules Devlieger, took initiative to revive the cooperation. Preparatory meetings were held in Seraing, Belgium in 1919 and in Paris, France, during Easter 1920. The founding congress of the international took place in Lucerne September 13-September 14, 1920. During the foundation, the French and Belgian delegations urged that the word 'Socialist' be omitted from the name of the organisation, in order to attract a broader following.\n\nThe organisation upheld a policy of neutrality towards party organisations, a policy inherited from the German workers' sports movement (which tried to steer away from the fractional conflicts between the German socialists). This policy was however challenged by the communists, which claimed that the workers' sport movement could not abstain from taking part in revolutionary struggle. In 1921, the third congress of the Communist International decided to form a parallel sport international. In August 1921, the Sportintern was founded. Sportintern launched fierce political attacks against the Lucerne international. Its Czechoslovak section had suffered a split in July 1921, as the communists deserted it.\n\nAt the second congress of the Lucerne International, held in Leipzig 1922, the French delegation argued in favour of unification between the two Internationals. This policy was not supported by the congress. The following year, the French affiliate FST decided to shift its membership to Sportintern.\n\nAhead of the 1925 Workers Olympiad, the Sportintern appealed to the Lucerne International that four Sportintern delegations (France, Soviet Union, Norway, Czechoslovakia) should be allowed to participate. Discussions lingered on within the Lucerne International, but after communist sportsmen had made a public protest at a German Workers Sports Festival in Karlsbad in 1924, it was decided that the Sportintern would be barred from the Workers Olympiad. Likewise SASI barred its affiliates for participating in the 1928 Spartakiad organised by Sportintern.\n\nPolitically, SASI was supported by the International Federation of Trade Unions and the Labour and Socialist International.\n\nThe main activity of SASI was the organizing of the International Workers' Olympiads, portrayed as a socialist alternative to the 'bourgeois' Olympics. At the Workers Olympiads only the red flag was used, rather than national flags.\n\n\nAs of 1931, SASI claimed the following membership figures:\n\n"}
{"id": "53056434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53056434", "title": "Sudirman Central Business District", "text": "Sudirman Central Business District\n\nSudirman Central Business District or SCBD is a business district with an integrated mixed use development concept, located in South Jakarta, Indonesia, consisting of condominiums, office buildings, hotels, shopping and entertainment centers. The total area of SCBD is about 45 hectare, which is again divided into 25 lots. About 13 hectares of the district are used to develop road network and landscaping. SCBD is located within Golden Triangle of Jakarta. There are seven entry and exit points from SCBD to different avenues of Jakarta. Most of the office buildings in the district are connected by underground pedestrian links.\n\nThe 2nd tallest building in Indonesia, Treasury Tower is located in the district at present. Jakarta Signature Tower, which is under construction, once completed it will be the 5th tallest building in the world, is located in the district.\n\nImportant buildings in the districts are: \n\nSCBD is served by TransJakarta Corridor-1. Other bus service providers such as Kopaja, and APTB buses also have routes, those passes through main avenues surrounding the district and connect the district with other parts of the city. SCBD will be integrated with a station of Jakarta MRT on Jalan Jenderal Sudirman. During business hours free shuttle buses are available to move within the district at 8-10 minutes interval.\n\n"}
{"id": "47574408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47574408", "title": "The David House Agency", "text": "The David House Agency\n\nThe David House Agency is a Los Angeles-based international crisis resource agency that helps international travelers facing wrongful imprisonment and other complex legal and political situations abroad.\n\nThe David House Agency was founded in 2011 by Eric Volz after his own experience of wrongful detainment in Nicaragua. In an article about the agency, \"The New York Times\" describes it as \"a hybrid of international detective work, legal research, political analysis, and diplomatic lobbying.\" The agency works on all aspects of international detainment cases, including case management, hiring and managing of local counsel, fundraising guidance, strategic communications, private diplomacy and lobbying, and aftercare measures.\n\nThe agency has been at the center of many high-profile cases overseas. Most recently, the David House Agency worked on the wrongful conviction case of Matthew and Grace Huang, a Los Angeles couple erroneously accused of starving their 8-year-old adopted daughter to death in Qatar in January 2013. Their conviction was overturned in December 2014, ending a two-year legal saga and lift of a travel ban—enabling the couple to leave Qatar and reunite with their two sons in the US.\n\nThe agency also aided Amir Mirzaei Hekmati, a 28-year-old former U.S. Marine convicted of spying for the CIA in Iran, Jason Puracal, an American who was wrongfully imprisoned in Nicaragua on charges of international drug trafficking, money laundering and organized crime, and the three American hikers taken into custody and accused of spying by Iranian border guards while hiking in Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "45395282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45395282", "title": "Thomas J. Burns", "text": "Thomas J. Burns\n\nThomas Junior Burns (April 6, 1923 – January 10, 1996) was an American accounting scholar and Professor of accounting at Ohio State University, known for his contributions to accounting education.\n\nBorn in Arena, Wisconsin, Burns obtained his BA degree from University of Wisconsin, while working at the Gisholt Machine Company. From early 1943 to late 1945 he served in the United States Army in Europe during World War II. Returning to University of Wisconsin, he obtained his BBA in accounting and American history in 1950. Subsequently, he obtained his CPA license for the State of Wisconsin in 1952, his MBA from the University of Michigan in 1957, and his PhD in accounting from the University of Minnesota under Carl L. Nelson.\n\nAfter his graduation in 1948, Burns worked at the Wisconsin Department of Taxation briefly, and then became controller for Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin and later also lecturer. For some time in the late 1950s he also taught accounting at Southern Illinois University. Eventually in 1963 he moved to Ohio State University, where he became Professor of Accounting in 1967 and chair of the department from 1977 to 1981. One of his first accomplishments was the initiation of a PhD program in modern accounting. Around 1965 he also initiated the Ohio State Accounting Honors Program. Burns was also a Visiting Professor at the University of Chicago, Harvard University, Stanford University, and the University of California at Berkeley.\n\nAt the American Accounting Association (AAA) he served as director of education. He later was awarded the AAA Outstanding Accounting Educator Award, as well as the AICPA Outstanding Accounting Educator Award. He was inducted into the Accounting Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "536700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=536700", "title": "Trade association", "text": "Trade association\n\nA trade association, also known as an industry trade group, business association, sector association or industry body, is an organization founded and funded by businesses that operate in a specific industry. An industry trade association participates in public relations activities such as advertising, education, political donations, lobbying and publishing, but its focus is collaboration between companies. Associations may offer other services, such as producing conferences, networking or charitable events or offering classes or educational materials. Many associations are non-profit organizations governed by bylaws and directed by officers who are also members.\n\nIn countries with a social market economy, the role of trade associations is often taken by employers' organizations, which also take a role in social dialogue.\n\nOne of the primary purposes of trade groups, particularly in the United States and to a similar but lesser extent elsewhere, is to attempt to influence public policy in a direction favorable to the group's members. It can take the form of contributions to the campaigns of political candidates and parties through Political Action Committees (PACs); contributions to \"issue\" campaigns not tied to a candidate or party; and lobbying legislators to support or oppose particular legislation. In addition, trade groups attempt to influence the activities of regulatory bodies. \n\nIn the United States, direct contributions by PACs to candidates are required to be disclosed to the Federal Election Commission or state and local election overseers, are considered public information, and have registration requirements for lobbyists. Even so, it can sometimes be difficult to trace the funding for issue and non-electoral campaigns.\n\nAlmost all trade associations are heavily involved in publishing activities in print and online. The main media published by trade associations are as follows:\n\nThe opportunity to be promoted in such media (whether by editorial or advertising) is often an important reason why companies join a trade association in the first place.\n\nExamples of larger trade associations that publish a comprehensive range of media include European Wind Energy Association (EWEA), Association of British Travel Agents (ABTA) and the Confederation of British Industry (CBI).\n\nIndustry trade groups sometimes produce advertisements, just as normal corporations do. However, whereas typical advertisements are for a specific corporate product, such as a specific brand of cheese or toilet paper, industry trade groups advertisements generally are targeted to promote the views of an entire industry.\n\nThese ads mention only the industry's products as a whole, painting them in a positive light in order to have the public form positive associations with that industry and its products. For example, in the USA the advertising campaign \"Beef. It's what's for dinner\" is used by the National Cattlemen's Beef Association to promote a positive image of beef in the public consciousness.\n\nThese are adverts targeted at specific issues. For example, in the USA in the early 2000s the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) began running advertisements before films that advocate against movie piracy over the Internet.\n\nA common criticism of trade associations is that, while they are not per se \"profit-making\" organizations that claim to do valuable work which is ultimately for the public benefit, they are in reality fronts for price-fixing cartels and other subtle anti-competitive activities that are not in the public interest.\n\nJon Leibowitz, commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, outlined the potentially anti-competitive nature of some trade association activity in a speech to the American Bar Association in Washington, D.C. in March 2005 called “The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: Trade Associations and Antitrust”. For instance, he said, under the guise of \"standard setting\" trade associations representing the established players in an industry can set rules that make it harder for new companies to enter a market.\n\nIn September 2007, the German trade association for Fachverband Verbindungs- und Befestigungstechnik (VBT) and five fastener companies were fined 303 million euros by the European Commission for operating cartels in the markets for fasteners and attaching machines in Europe and worldwide. In one of the cartels, the YKK Group, Coats plc, the Prym group, the Scovill group, A. Raymond, Berning & Söhne agreed coordinated price increases in annual price rounds with respect to fasteners and their attaching machines, \"in the framework of work circles organised by VBT\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1522961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1522961", "title": "Trade in services", "text": "Trade in services\n\nTrade in Services refers to the sale and delivery of an intangible product, called a service, between a producer and consumer. Trade in services that takes place between a producer and consumer that are, in legal terms, based in different countries is called International Trade in Services.\nInternational trade in services is defined by the \"Four Modes of Supply\" of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).\n\n\nA \"Natural person\" is a human being, as distinct from legal persons such as companies or organisations. Countries can freely decide where to liberalize on a sector-by-sector basis, including which specific mode of supply they want to cover for a given sector.\n\nMode 2 (Consumption Abroad) is by far the most liberalized mode in terms of commitments by WTO members. This is mostly due to governments being less likely to restrict the movements of citizens outside domestic borders (e.g. tourists). Mode 1 (Cross-Border Trade) is not often committed, mostly because it is impossible for many services to be supplied remotely (e.g. construction services), while Mode 3 (Commercial Presence) is more open, reflecting its crucial role in driving the international supply of services, transferring know-how and improving the capacity of economies to participate in global value chains. Mode 4 (Presence of Natural Persons) has the lowest depth of commitments, probably due to a number of sensitivities involved with the movement of foreign workers.\n\nIn 2014, global trade in services totaled some $4.8 trillion, with Mode 3 (commercial presence) accounting for 55% of the total, followed by Mode 1 (cross-border trade) at 30%, then Mode 2 ( consumption abroad) at 10%, and Mode 4 (presence of natural persons) the lowest share, at less than 5%.\n\nIn wealthy developed economies, services comprise a significant share of GDP and employment. For example, services account for 70% of economic output in the United States and 75% in the European Union.\n\nDuring the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the General Agreement on Trade in Services was drafted, and became enshrined as one of the four pillars of the international treaty comprising the World Trade Organization Agreement in 1995. \n\nRegional trade in services agreements are also negotiated and signed between regional economic groupings such as CARICOM, North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and ASEAN.\n\nBeginning in February 2012, 50 countries (28 of which are represented by the European Union) around the world began negotiating the Trade in Services Agreement (TISA). TISA negotiations primarily comprised high- and upper-middle income countries who were members of the WTO and hoped to further liberalize trade in financial services, healthcare, and transportation between themselves. The agreement has not progressed since early 2016 due to uncertainty surrounding negotiations in the aftermath of many elections that occurred that year.\n\nSome of the most common examples of trade in service would be:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3179702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3179702", "title": "Walter Cramer", "text": "Walter Cramer\n\nWilhelm Bernardo Walter Cramer (1 May 1886, Leipzig, Kingdom of Saxony – 14 November 1944, Berlin) was a German businessman from Leipzig and a member of the failed 20 July Plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler at the Wolf's Lair in East Prussia.\n\nIn 1919, Cramer became managing director of the \"Kammgarnspinnerei Gautzsch AG\", a worsted yarn spinning mill. From 1923, he was on the board of directors of the \"Leipziger Kammgarnspinnerei Stöhr & Co. AG\", another corporation in the same industry. In the first half of the 1940s, Cramer took part in civilian resistance against the Nazi régime with Leipzig's former mayor Carl Friedrich Goerdeler (1884-1945). After the attempt on the Führer's life failed on 20 July 1944, Cramer was seized on 22 July, and later found guilty at the \"Volksgerichtshof\" of treason and high treason, for which he was sentenced to death. He was hanged at Plötzensee Prison in Berlin on 14 November 1944.\n\nIn 1945, a street in the Gohlis neighbourhood of Leipzig was named \"Walter-Cramer-Straße\" after him. The City of Leipzig also honoured Walter Cramer with a monument in the \"Johannapark\" in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "13334137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13334137", "title": "Xu Simin", "text": "Xu Simin\n\nTsui Sze-man (, 3 July 1914 – 9 September 2007) was a pro-Beijing loyalist and magazine publisher based in Hong Kong. He was nicknamed \"Big Cannon Tsui\" for his outspoken and sometimes controversial views. He was known as a staunch supporter of Beijing's policies in Hong Kong.\n\nTsui was born in 1914 in Burma (present day Myanmar). Despite his birth in Burma, Tsui spent the majority of his life either in mainland China or Hong Kong. Tsui attended school at Xiamen University in Fujian province.\n\nTsui returned to his birthplace, Burma, in the 1940s and founded the \"New Rangoon News\". He returned to Communist China in 1964. Tsui finally settled permanently in Hong Kong in 1977. Once in Hong Kong, Tsui began publishing The Mirror, a pro-Beijing magazine which supported the policies of the mainland.\n\nTsui was known for his controversial opinions. In 1998, he heavily criticized RTHK, a Hong Kong government run radio station, for being too critical of the Hong Kong and Chinese administrations. Tsui urged Hong Kong officials to censor RTHK.\n\nTsui served as a member of the Standing Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, a Hong Kong committee which advises China's congress.\n\nTsui died of organ failure on 9 September 2007 in Hong Kong at the age of 93. At Tsui's funeral, Gao Siren, Beijing's liaison to Hong Kong praised Tsui for his support of Hong Kong's Basic Law and current \"one country, two systems\" policy. Mourners included high level officials from China and Hong Kong's governments, including the Chief Executive of Hong Kong, Donald Tsang, the director of China's Hong Kong and Macau affairs office, Liao Hui, and former Hong Kong leader, Tung Chee-hwa. Wreaths and flowers were sent by Chinese President Hu Jintao, Premier Wen Jiabao and Wu Bangguo, the head of China's congress.\n\nTsui was buried at Dapeng Bay in the city of Shenzhen, China.\n"}
